United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
31st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 8 October 2013, 5.45 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.31
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Errázuriz 
(Chile), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 5.40 p.m.
High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development
Agenda item 18 (continued)
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the 2002 International Conference on Financing for 
Development and the 2008 Review Conference
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  read  the 
concluding  remarks  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.
We have come to the conclusion of the sixth High-
level Dialogue on Financing for Development. I would 
like to express my appreciation to all delegations that 
participated.  Their  constructive  interventions  have 
contributed to the successful outcome of the meeting. I 
am grateful to the Secretary-General, the Vice-President 
of the Economic and Social Council and the Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade 
and Development for their opening remarks (see A/68/
PV29),  which  were  followed  by  many  thoughtful 
statements  by  representatives  of  Member  States  and 
institutional stakeholders in the plenary meetings.
I  am  also  very  pleased  with 
the  valuable 
contributions  of  others  —  institutional  stakeholders, 
civil society and the private sector — who engaged in 
a  true  dialogue  in  our  round  tables  and  the  informal 
interactive  dialogue.  The  interactive  nature  of  our 
discussions and the participation of such a wide range 
of  stakeholders  exemplify  the  inclusive  spirit  of  the 
financing for development process. All of their remarks 
have provided an important reminder that we need to 
uphold  the  foundations  of  the  global  partnership  for 
development as set out in the Monterrey Consensus and 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development, 
as we accelerate the implementation of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  move  towards  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
A full summary of the High-level Dialogue will be 
made  available  at  a  later  date.  At  this  point,  I  would 
like  to  highlight  some  key  points  expressed  over  the 
past two days.
There was a broad consensus among all participants 
that  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  Doha  Declaration 
on  Financing  for  Development  provided  a  strong 
conceptual  underpinning  for  future  discussions  on 
financing for development.
Participants  agreed  that  we  should  avoid  any 
duplication of effort and arrive at a coherent financing 
framework for a unified post-2015 development agenda 
with sustainability at its core. Such a financing strategy 
should  build  on  existing  international  agreements,  as 
enshrined  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Doha 
Declaration  and  related  outcomes  of  major  United 
Nations conferences and summits.
As the world has changed considerably over the past 
10 years, the conceptual framework needs to be adapted 
to new circumstances and challenges, particularly those 
related  to  the  integration  of  the  social,  economic  and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50432 (E)
*1350432*
A/68/PV.31 
08/10/2013
environmental dimensions of sustainable development. 
Many of those issues have already been incorporated in 
the financing for development process. In that context, 
many  participants  noted  the  important  role  of  the 
recently  established  Intergovernmental  Committee  of 
Experts on Sustainable Development Financing, which 
will propose options on an effective financing strategy 
for sustainable development.
for 
the 
Many  delegations  called 
follow-up 
international conference on financing for development 
to  be  held  before  the  end  of  2015,  in  order  for  the 
conference  to  contribute  meaningfully  to  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  Delegations  called  for 
intergovernmental  consultations  on  issues  related  to 
the  conference,  with  the  participation  of  all  Member 
States, to begin before the end of 2013. There were also 
calls for a financing for development commission as a 
subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
to  bridge  the  gap  between  policy-making  and  the 
implementation of commitments.
While  recognizing  that  much  had  been  achieved 
since  the  Millennium  Declaration  was  adopted,  in 
2000,  we  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  accelerate 
progress towards achieving the MDGs. Since progress 
in  reaching  the  development  goals  has  been  uneven 
between  and  within  countries,  we  must  focus  on  the 
goals that are most off-track and on countries that face 
particular development challenges.
More  than  five  years  since  the  global  financial 
and economic crisis, the international financial system 
continues to be plagued by vulnerability. The sovereign 
debt  crisis  in  Europe  and  the  uneven  global  recovery 
have led to heightened risk aversion. The de-leveraging 
of  financial  institutions  continues,  particularly  in 
Europe.
Although  growth  prospects  for  2014  appear  to 
have  slightly  improved,  risks  remain.  In  particular, 
unconventional  monetary  measures  adopted  in  major 
developed countries have spillover effects on emerging 
economies.  At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  risk  that  an 
early  undoing  of  those  measures  could  impact  the 
nascent  recovery  in  some  developed  countries  and 
create additional volatility in developing countries.
While financing needs for sustainable development 
are  extremely  large,  they  represent  a  relatively  small 
portion  of  global  savings.  The  challenge  lies  in 
facilitating an international financial system that would 
direct a small amount of investment towards sustainable 
development.
It is important to extend the regulatory framework 
beyond  the  banking  sector  to  the  entire  financial 
system, including “shadow” banking. The development 
and  adaptation  of  international  financial  regulations 
would  benefit  from  the  greater  representation  and 
participation of developing countries in the regulatory 
reform process.
Institutional  investors,  such  as  pension  funds 
and  sovereign  wealth  funds,  that  have  long-term 
liabilities  are  an  important  potential  source  for  long-
term financing for sustainable development. However, 
to  date  their  investment  in  critical  areas,  such  as 
infrastructure,  environmental  financing,  innovation 
and small and medium enterprises, remains limited. It 
was  pointed  out  that  there  was  a  need  to  better  align 
investor incentives with long-term investment.
Foreign direct investment inflows, one of the most 
stable private sources of international capital, have been 
falling globally. However, the decline has been greatest 
in  developed  countries,  with  inflows  to  resource-rich 
least  developed  countries  remaining  strong.  In  that 
context,  policies  to  promote  long-term  sustainable 
foreign  direct  investment  are  needed,  especially  in 
areas such as environmental investments.
In that context, participants stressed that the private 
sector  would  not  invest  unless  there  were  profitable 
bankable investments. Representatives from the private 
sector pointed to a number of structural constraints that 
prevented investment in developing countries, including 
regulatory risks and weak institutions. It was pointed 
out that public financing could play a complementary 
role  in  helping  developing  countries  overcome  those 
obstacles and in leveraging private financing.
Domestic  resource  mobilization  remains  critical. 
Since it is ultimately driven by inclusive and sustained 
economic  growth,  domestic  resource  mobilization  is 
key  to  ensuring  effective  domestic  macroeconomic 
policymaking 
international 
environment.
enabling 
and 
an 
Developing  countries  face  a  range  of  common 
challenges in raising resources, and that is particularly 
pronounced  in  the  most  vulnerable  countries.  Those 
countries must continue to build their capacity to collect 
public  revenues.  The  strengthening  of  international 
tax  cooperation  must  continue  in  that  regard.  Several 
2/3 
13-50432
08/10/2013 
A/68/PV.31
delegations  proposed  to  upgrade  the  Committee  of 
Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters to 
an intergovernmental body.
The  pressures  on  public  finances  in  many  donor 
countries  following  the  global  crisis  led  to  a  fall  in 
official development assistance (ODA) and a reduction 
of  fiscal  space.  That  development  could  threaten 
the  gains  made  by  many  developing  countries,  least 
developed  countries  in  particular,  in  achieving  the 
MDGs. A renewed effort by major donors is necessary 
to  reach  ODA  commitments  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national income (GNI), with a target of 0.15 to 0.20 per 
cent of GNI to the least developed countries by 2015, 
taking into account the quality of such aid.
The  expansion  of  South-South  cooperation  is  a 
welcome development. It should not be seen, however, 
as  a  substitute  for  traditional  aid  flows,  but  rather  as 
complementary  financing  and  technical  resources  for 
development.  There  were  some  calls  for  increased 
dialogue  among  traditional  and  emerging  donors  to 
increase coherence in the aid architecture. In addition, 
innovative  sources  of  financing  were  seen  as  having 
potential, but should be seen as additional to existing 
ODA.
lost  momentum,  mostly 
There  were  also  calls  for  an  early  conclusion  to 
the  Doha  Round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations  of 
the World Trade Organization (WTO). During the past 
year, the recovery in world trade following the financial 
crisis 
through  weakened 
demand in developed countries. In particular, the least 
developed  countries’  share  in  global  trade  remains 
low,  at  only  1.1  per  cent.  The  Doha  Round  has  the 
potential to contribute significantly to more equitable 
and  inclusive  growth.  The  ministerial  conference  of 
the WTO to be held in Bali in December could lead to 
progress in important areas, including trade facilitation, 
agriculture negotiation and development.
Sovereign  debt  is  another  important  area  of 
financing.  Today,  debt  overhangs 
development 
limited. 
in  developing  countries  are 
relatively 
remain 
Nevertheless,  some  developing  countries 
critically indebted, and the debt of developed countries 
continues  to  pose  a  risk  for  the  global  economy,  and 
therefore needs timely and effective resolution. In order 
to  enhance  the  role  of  foreign  borrowing  for  growth 
and  development,  efforts  are  needed  to  strengthen 
three pillars: responsible lending and borrowing; debt 
management;  and  a  framework  for  sovereign-debt 
restructuring. There were calls for the United Nations 
to  guide  an  institution-building  process  to  establish 
a  debt  work-out  mechanism,  with  fair  and  equitable 
representation of the interests of debtors.
Our discussions over the past two days have been 
quite instructive and inspiring. We have built momentum 
towards redoubling efforts in achieving the MDGs and 
towards  advancing  the  United  Nations  development 
agenda beyond 2015. In participants’ statements, I heard 
genuine concern about the uncertainty of development 
prospects for the world’s poorest and most vulnerable, 
but also for donor countries, which are now faced with 
mounting debts and tight budgets.
However, I have also sensed optimism that we can 
come  together  to  meet  the  challenges  of  sustainable 
development.  The  resources  are 
just 
need  to  be  allocated  effectively.  That  requires  a  true 
multi-stakeholder  effort  and  a  global  partnership 
encompassing  all  stakeholders,  in  order  to  expedite 
the mobilization of financial resources for sustainable 
development,  both  public  and  private,  at  the  national, 
regional and international levels.
there; 
they 
I thank participants very much for their attendance 
and participation in this event.
I now declare closed the sixth High-level Dialogue 
on Financing for Development.
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
13-50432
3/3
