United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
6th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 24 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.6
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.40 p.m.
Address by Ms. Laura Chinchilla Miranda, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Costa Rica.
Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Ms. Laura Chinchilla Miranda, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica, and to invite 
her to address the Assembly.
President Chinchilla Miranda (spoke in Spanish): 
It  is  a  pleasure  to  begin  this  address  with  warm 
congratulations to Ambassador John Ashe on his recent 
election as President of the General Assembly. We wish 
him  success  in  his  endeavours  and  assure  him  of  our 
support.
Today  is  the  last  time  that  I  will  address  the 
General  Assembly  as  President  of  Costa  Rica.  As  on 
previous occasions, my message is based upon my firm 
conviction of the essential nature of the United Nations 
to  promote  peace,  security,  development,  democracy 
and human rights. The United Nations brings together, 
catalyses and protects the multilateral system and the 
international rule of law. Its validity, vigour, legitimacy 
and effectiveness are essential to all countries, but most 
importantly  to  the  smaller  and  more  vulnerable  ones, 
especially if, like Costa Rica, they do not have armed 
forces. In the course of humankind’s most challenging 
times throughout the past 68 years, we have turned to the 
Organization to seek guidance and solutions responsive 
to  the  hopes  and  longings  of  our  peoples.  Today,  we 
are  facing  one  such  occasion,  amid  contradictions. 
We are the authors of great achievements, but we are 
also  overwhelmed  by  acute  tragedies.  There  remain 
serious global challenges for which we have not crafted 
responses that are equally global in scope.
On 2 April, we conclusively ratified the Arms Trade 
Treaty, a vital step that was proudly led by our country 
as one of the seven sponsoring countries, and a great 
victory for humankind. I am pleased to announce today 
that it has been unanimously ratified by the Legislative 
Assembly  of  Costa  Rica,  and  I  pledge  our  support  to 
work assidiously for its implementation. 
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
In  two  days,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
the Organization, we will hold a high-level debate on 
nuclear  disarmament.  Costa  Rica  will  also  lend  its 
leadership on the issue. In that way, we hope to be able 
to  move  closer  towards  an  ideal  aspired  to  by  most 
countries  and  to  make  progress  in  new  conceptual 
frameworks for discussion. The meetings of the Open-
ended Working Group on Nuclear Disarmament, chaired 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48455 (E)
*1348455*
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
with effectiveness by our Permanent Representative in 
Geneva, Mr. Manuel Dengo Benavides, have opened up 
a promising path.
We are working at a good rate to establish a new 
global  agenda  for  sustainable  development,  as  well 
as  institutions  to  promote  it.  That  is  evidenced  by 
the  reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the 
establishment  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development  and 
the  progress  being 
made  on  the  Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development Goals. 
Increasingly, innovation, technology, education and 
culture  are  recognized  as  promoters  of  development, 
and there is a growing awareness of the need to actively 
incorporate young people in such endeavours. Together 
with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), 
Costa Rica is honoured to have hosted and organized 
BYND  2015  Global  Youth  Summit,  an  international 
conference on youth, development and information and 
communication  technologies.  The  conference  brought 
together young people from various parts of the world 
and enjoyed the able leadership from the ITU Secretary 
General, Mr. Hamadoun Touré. Today, I symbolically 
present to the General Assembly the final declaration of 
the conference, adopted in our capital on 11 September 
by  thousands  of  young  people  from  every  continent. 
We  trust  that  it  will  be  a  very  relevant  input  for  the 
discussion of the post-2015 development agenda.
To explore options for the future, in March Costa 
Rica  also  hosted  an 
international  conference  of 
middle-income  countries  jointly  organized  with  the 
United  Nations  Industrial  Development  Organization. 
Its  results  will  help  to  better  conceptualize  the  needs 
of nations like ours and the contributions that we can 
make in terms of the post-2015 development agenda. 
As part of those initiatives, we must not overlook our 
duty to strive to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals and the need to accelerate their implementation, 
particularly in less developed countries.
The  achievements  I  have  mentioned,  as  well  as 
others, have taken place under the ominous and tragic 
shadow  of  a  world  that  remains  very  complicated. 
We  are  still  shocked  by  the  brutal  terrorist  attack 
committed a few days ago in Nairobi. Today I express 
our deepest solidarity with the people of Kenya and our 
strongest condemnation of that attack, and of terrorism 
and fanaticism. 
For the past two years, we have been struck by the 
tragedy  in  Syria.  The  incessant  count  of  massacred 
and  displaced  persons  has  been  as  unsettling  as  the 
inaction  of  the  international  community,  particularly 
the Security Council, to act in a timely way to contain 
the crimes and the violence. After a period of paralysis 
and confusion, it seems that at last we are approaching 
a  solution  that  will  lead  to  breaking  out  of  that 
unacceptable stalemate. We raise our voice to demand 
that  the  Security  Council  act  decisively  to  eliminate 
chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  halt  the  violence,  seek  a 
negotiated and democratic way out of the conflict and 
hold  accountable  those  responsible  for  the  horrible 
crimes committed in that country.
Costa Rica insists that the Security Council should 
refer the Syrian case to the International Criminal Court. 
We  also  call  again  on  the  five  permanent  members 
of  the  Council  to  henceforth  commit  themselves  to 
refraining from exercising the veto in cases of crimes 
against humanity.
The Syrian tragedy underscores the need to work 
decisively  towards  the  organic  application  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  and  to  promote  the  use  of 
mediation  to  avoid  the  emergence  or  the  worsening 
of  conflicts.  As  a  concrete  measure  towards  such 
prevention,  we  urge  all  Member  States  to  join  the 
initiative of Australia, Costa Rica, Denmark and Ghana 
and  designate  national  focal  points  for  the  prevention 
of  atrocities  and  on  the  responsibility  to  protect.  The 
preventive  approach  is  also  necessary  to  manage 
universal  public  goods  and,  consequently,  to  exert 
global governance. 
The prevention and reversal of global warming is 
one of the most urgent issues on our crucial agenda. We 
cannot remain inactive while global warming increases, 
ocean  levels  rise  and  the  survival  of  several  small 
island States is threatened. We commend the Secretary-
General’s plan to convene a summit on climate change 
and his promotion of the initiative entitled “The Oceans 
Compact: Healthy Oceans for Prosperity”. We believe 
that  the  time  has  come  to  negotiate,  pursuant  to  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Oceans, 
an international agreement on that subject.
Besides being an instrument for global governance 
and 
the  protection  of  universal  public  goods, 
international law entails many other dimensions. Those 
include  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of States, goodwill in addressing border issues 
2/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
and observance of all the decisions of the International 
Court of Justice. Costa Rica is a firm believer in and 
scrupulous  observer  of  international  law  in  all  its 
aspects.  But  that  attitude  contrasts  with  the  absolute 
disrespect of the Government of Nicaragua of the most 
elementary  norms  of  conduct  and  coexistence  among 
States. That disrespect has led to open and unacceptable 
aggression  against  our  country  and  to  the  flagrant 
disobedience of the orders of the Court at The Hague.
In  October  of  2010,  Nicaraguan  forces  occupied 
part of Costa Rica’s territory. Following our complaint, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  issued  provisional 
measures that, among other things, prohibit the presence 
of  Nicaraguan  personnel  in  the  zone  under  dispute. 
But  Nicaragua  has  continued  sending  contingents 
of  political  activists,  funded  and  organized  by  its 
Government.  In  August  2013,  the  Court  reiterated  its 
demand for compliance with the provisional measures, 
but  Nicaragua  has  again  ignored  them.  Their  scorn 
demonstrates  the  urgent  need  to  establish  procedures 
that  guarantee  the  respect  of  all  decisions  emanating 
from  the  Court,  including  precautionary  measures. 
Costa  Rica  commits  itself  to  work  towards  that  goal 
and  expects  an  open  stance  from  the  international 
community.
The  Nicaraguan  Government,  moreover,  has 
offered blocks of the patrimonial sea of Costa Rica for 
exploration  and  exploitation  of  oil.  It  seeks  to  extend 
the limits of its continental shelf by ignoring our rights 
and  has  broken  off  negotiations  to  secure  maritime 
boundaries.  It  has  threatened  to  claim  a  province  of 
Costa  Rica  as  its  own  and  has  restarted  dredging 
works in the zone subject to the provisional measures 
of the International Court of Justice. Furthermore, it is 
pursuing a policy of increased re-armament.
The Nicaraguan and Costa Rican people wish and 
deserve to live in peace, but the Nicaraguan Government 
insists on preventing that. By pursuing a course of such 
deliberate and repeated misconduct, the Government of 
Nicaragua  undermines  international  law  and  the  very 
purpose of the United Nations.
Notwithstanding the gravity of the situation, Costa 
Rica remains peacefully and firmly committed to the 
well-being and security of our population. We promote a 
model of development based upon harmony with nature, 
solidarity  and  social  inclusion,  an  open  economy  and 
open  trade,  the  development  of  our  human  resources, 
and  innovation.  We  realize  that  development  is  futile 
if  it  is  not  founded  on  a  profound  respect  for  human 
dignity and the rights and well-being of the people. 
We  firmly  believe  that  respect  for  and  promotion 
of human rights in all its dimensions is a national and 
international  duty.  For  that  reason,  among  others,  we 
remain open to all special procedures on human rights, 
and we are engaged actively and constructively in the 
Human Rights Council.
In facing the challenges of public safety, including 
drug  trafficking  and  transnational  organized  crime, 
our  country  has  adopted  a  balanced  strategy  whose 
positive results are evident in many areas, including the 
continued reduction in our homicide rate over the past 
three years, one of the lowest in Central America. Given 
the gravity for many nations of the challenges of drug 
trafficking and transnational organized crime, we join 
the call by other States from our region, such as Mexico 
and  Guatemala,  to  re-evaluate  agreed  international 
policies  and  to  seek  more  effective  responses  against 
drug trafficking, from a perspective of health, respect 
for  human  rights  and  impact  reduction.  Along  the 
same  lines,  it  is  necessary  to  increase  international 
cooperation to reduce the illegal flows of weapons and 
money that fuel criminal networks.
the  extraordinary  session  of 
The new global strategy on that enormous challenge 
should be the product of the open and inclusive debate 
during 
the  General 
Assembly in 2016. We salute the Antigua Declaration of 
the General Assembly of the Organization of American 
States as a first step to leading us in the right direction 
towards that special session.
Against the backdrop of the actions and convictions 
I have just outlined, we respond enthusiastically to the 
call of the President of the General Assembly to advance 
in  framing  the  post-2015  development  agenda  during 
this  session.  We  are  encouraged  by  his  emphasis  on 
more active involvement by civil society in that process, 
the importance assigned to human rights and the rule of 
law as bases for development, and his openness to new 
ideas  and  institutional  modalities,  including  alliances 
among multiple sectors.
Costa Rica looks to the future with confidence. At 
the same time, we are aware of the risks and challenges 
that  we  face  as  a  country,  as  a  region  and  as  part  of 
humankind. In that future, we see the United Nations 
as an indispensable institution, a steadfast companion, 
a  visionary  guide  and  co-guardian  of  our  tranquility 
and  well-being.  I  pay  tribute  to  its  contributions  and 
13-48455
3/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
sincerely  hope  that  they  may  multiply  in  the  years  to 
come. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Costa Rica for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of 
the  Republic  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Heinz Fischer, Federal President of 
the Republic of Austria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Federal President of the Republic 
of Austria.
Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal  President  of  the 
Republic of Austria, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal 
President of the Republic of Austria, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Fischer:  I  thank  the  President  for 
raising  for  discussion  at  this  year’s  general  debate 
a  very  pertinent  subject,  namely,  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  Shaping  our 
planet’s future after 2015 is indeed a crucial task ahead 
of  us,  as  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  described 
very impressively in his presentation this morning (see 
A/68/PV.5).  While  we  remain  fully  committed  to  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, the post-2015 agenda has started.
One idea that has caught my particular attention is 
to upgrade the eradication of hunger from an indictor 
to  a  goal  in  that  new  agenda.  More  still  needs  to  be 
done, and everyone must contribute a fair share: States, 
international organizations, the private sector, academia 
and civil society alike. Let me assure the Assembly that 
Austria will contribute its share as well.
The international community currently faces major 
threats  in  its  search  for  global  security.  The  Middle 
East  remains  exposed  to  fundamental  challenges.  We 
welcome  the  agreement  reached  between  the  United 
States and the Russian Federation on a framework for 
the destruction of the Syrian chemical weapons arsenal. 
We  believe  that  the  Security  Council  should  refer  the 
situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. 
Accountability is, and remains, necessary to stopping 
the atrocities and prevent future crimes.
The  path  to  democratic  participation  and  a  new 
beginning  in  Syria  —  the  actual  goal  of  the  civilian 
protests that started two and a half years ago — remains 
crucial.  Unfortunately,  the  parties  seem  to  be  firmly 
set  on  a  military  solution  to  the  conflict.  However,  it 
should be clear that the best way to achieve a sustainable 
solution can only be a political, negotiated one. That is 
the Austrian position.
By now the civil war in Syria is greatly affecting all 
neighbouring  countries.  The  conflict  is  a  Syrian  one, 
but the consequences go far beyond its borders. It has 
indeed become international.
The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  seems  to  have 
been  overshadowed  by  the  upheavals  in  the  region.  I 
have  followed  events  there  for  almost  40  years.  I  am 
convinced  that  what  is  needed  for  a  solution  is  the 
willingness not only to negotiate in good faith but also 
to take into account the needs and sensibilities of the 
negotiating  partner:  the  other  side.  I,  for  one,  cannot 
believe that the value of the new settlements to Israel 
outweighs the damage they cause by being an obstacle 
to peace and reasonable conditions.
that 
We  welcome 
the  new  United  States 
Administration  has  devoted  its  full  attention  to  that 
long-standing  question  and  that  direct  negotiations 
resumed at the end of July. What we need now is decisive 
leadership.  We  are  convinced  that  a  breakthrough  in 
the  central  conflict  would  also  mean  a  decisive  step 
towards stabilization of the entire region.
While we continue to support the ongoing transition 
processes  in  the  Arab  world,  recent  developments 
in  the  region  have  cast  a  shadow  on  the  democratic 
gains achieved so far. Progress on the difficult path to 
democracy will greatly depend upon whether all parts 
of society are included.
Vienna  and 
its  United  Nations  headquarters 
serve  as  a  platform  for  the  discussion  on  sustainable 
development. Austria is very pleased that the Office of 
the Special Representative for the Sustainable Energy 
for  All  initiative  in  Vienna  started  its  activities  on 
1  July.  We  welcome  the  initiative’s  cooperation  with 
thematic  and  regional  hubs,  as  well  as  with  other 
specialized  organizations  like  the  United  Nations 
Industrial Development Organization.
4/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
Austria  is  also  the  host  country  of  the  newly 
established  International  Anti-Corruption  Academy. 
This international organization and centre of excellence 
has already undertaken several successful activities in 
fighting  corruption —  a  major  obstacle  to  reasonable 
development in all areas of society. I thank the Kingdom 
of Thailand for hosting the second Assembly of Parties, 
scheduled  to  take  place  in  December.  Furthermore,  I 
would like to invite all States that have not yet done so 
to become members of the Anti-Corruption Academy.
This year’s Forum of the United Nations Alliance 
of Civilizations took place in Vienna in February, with 
the forward-looking theme of “Responsible leadership 
in diversity and dialogue”. More than 1,500 participants 
from Government, civil society, the private sector and 
the media, as well as a youth forum of 150 outstanding 
and  highly  dedicated  participants,  provided  most 
valuable input for the discussions of the Forum.
In that context, I am also pleased to report that the 
King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  International  Centre 
for  Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Dialogue  was 
inaugurated  in  Vienna  on  26  November  2012.  The 
Centre  —  a  joint  initiative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia,  the  Kingdom  of  Spain  and  the  Republic  of 
Austria — serves as an interactive platform for religious 
leaders, experts and civil society alike.
Multilateral  cooperation  can  deliver  solutions 
to  global  problems.  The  historic  accomplishment  of 
the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  is  an  important  example  in 
that  regard.  We  look  forward  to  its  earliest  possible 
entry  into  force.  At  the  same  time,  the  international 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  regime  is  being 
challenged,  day  after  day,  by  alarming  developments. 
We  were,  and  still  are,  deeply  shocked  by  the  use  of 
chemical weapons in Syria. We observe North Korea’s 
continued development of nuclear weapons and missile 
capabilities  with  concern.  And  we  have  new  hope 
that  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue  will  be  resolved  by 
negotiations, which, after the election of a new Iranian 
President, should be resumed shortly.
Similarly, the continued reliance on nuclear weapons 
and the limited progress towards nuclear disarmament 
are of great global concern. Nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation  efforts  can  be  achieved  only  when 
they  go  forward  together.  Nuclear  weapons  should  be 
stigmatized, banned and eliminated. The humanitarian 
consequences of nuclear weapons have to be put at the 
centre of our attention.
that 
there 
While  some  might  believe 
is  a 
contradiction between respect for cultural and religious 
differences  on  the  one  hand  and  the  universality  of 
human  rights  on  the  other,  I  am  convinced  that  they 
reinforce each other. If people and nations can count on 
human  rights  being  protected,  they  will  show  respect 
for the other side.
The  Human  Rights  Council,  with  its  universal 
periodic  review  mechanism  and  special  procedures, 
has,  within  a  few  years,  developed  into  an  effective 
instrument  to  address  human  rights  violations  and 
crisis situations in many instances. Austria, as a current 
member of the Council, is contributing to those efforts 
with targeted initiatives for the safety of journalists, the 
protection of religious minorities and the promotion of 
the rights of the child. 
We  welcome  the  continuing  trend  towards  the 
universal  abolition  of  the  death  penalty,  which  is  a 
longstanding  interest  of  mine.  However,  too  many 
countries still maintain a retentionist policy with regard 
to  that  cruel  and  inhuman  form  of  punishment.  Our 
diplomatic efforts therefore have to be reinforced.
We  are  worried  by  the  increasing  number  of 
human rights violations based on sexual orientation or 
gender identity. The 1993 World Conference on Human 
Rights  in  Vienna  and  the  2005  World  Summit  firmly 
placed  human  rights  at  the  centre  of  United  Nations 
activities. Respect for human rights is an indispensable 
prerequisite for peace, security and development.
Last  year,  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  provided  an  excellent 
opportunity  for  us  to  renew  our  commitment  to  the 
rule  of  law  at  the  national  and  international  levels. 
The Austrian Government is considering setting up an 
Austrian  rule-of-law  trust  fund,  designed  to  support 
international  actors  in  strengthening  the  rule  of  law 
and  to  offer  legal  expertise  and  deploy  legal  experts 
free of charge to developing countries, at their request. 
International law and the rule of law are the foundations 
of  the  international  system.  Austria  strongly  believes 
that  only  an  international  system  based  on  the  rule 
of  law  can  lead  to  lasting  peace,  security,  economic 
development  and  social  progress.  Obviously,  that  is 
particularly  true  for  the  use  of  force,  which  should 
occur  only  in  self-defence  or  when  authorized  by  the 
Security Council.
In that spirit, let me confirm that Austria remains 
fully committed to an effective United Nations system. 
13-48455
5/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
In that connection, I especially want to thank Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  efforts  and  his 
commitment to peace, the rule of law and human rights.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Federal President of the 
Republic of Austria for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal  President  of  the 
Republic of Austria, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara, 
President of the Republic of Paraguay
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Paraguay.
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes 
Jara,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Cartes  Jara  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
President of the Republic of Paraguay, I have the great 
honour to speak in this global forum to address issues 
that are relevant to my country and to today’s world in 
general.
I extend a special greeting to the President of the 
Assembly,  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  as  well  as  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  in  appreciation 
of  their  work  towards  the  noble  goals  that  unite  us. 
Through their efforts, they contribute to the legitimacy 
of  the  United  Nations  and  help  to  ensure  multilateral 
cooperation  and  the  international  validity  of  the  rule 
of law.
It  has  been  little  more  than  a  month  since  I  took 
office  as  President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  after 
an  exemplary  electoral  process  that  culminated  on 
21 April, when the Paraguayan people went to the polls 
to freely exercise their guaranteed constitutional right 
to  elect  their  Government,  with  irrefutable  results. 
Electoral observer missions from various regional and 
continental organizations, and from the United Nations 
itself, were present and certified the legality, legitimacy 
and  transparency  of  the  elections  and  the  electoral 
process,  whereby  the  will  of  the  people  honoured  me 
with the highest office of our Republic. Those events 
also  represent  the  conclusion  of  a  long  transition 
towards democracy in Paraguay. For the second, time 
in  our  history,  executive  authority  was  consecutively 
transferred from one political party to another with full 
respect  for  the  constitutional  framework.  That  is  no 
small  achievement  in  our  202  years  of  independence, 
and it signals the true beginning of a new historic and 
auspicious period for my country.
institutionalism, 
the  building  of 
consensus, the strengthening of the democratic system, 
unconditional  respect  for  human  rights,  and  freedom 
of  speech  and  of  the  press  are  the  cornerstones  of 
my  Government,  which  aims  to  be  an  exemplar  of 
patriotism,  honesty,  inclusion  and  effectiveness,  with 
the  capacity  needed  to  propel  Paraguay  towards  its 
destined greatness.
Republican 
The  people  of  Paraguay  have  been  waiting  for  a 
great  Government  for  a  long  time.  I  hope  to  be  able 
to deliver on that great vision, which will position my 
country firmly on the global stage, where we want to 
stand out by ensuring that we are a land of opportunity 
for Paraguayans and foreigners alike. As has been said, 
Paraguay is one of the most closely guarded treasures 
of Latin America, and there are good reasons to hope 
that it will have a promising future.
I  have  made  combating  poverty  a  priority  for  my 
Government. It is incomprehensible that a nation so rich 
in resources should have so many poor. We will give no 
quarter in the fight to reduce our poverty indicators as 
much and as quickly as possible. Change is coming, and 
not through aid but by ensuring human dignity. Social 
investment  is  at  the  forefront  of  my  Administration’s 
agenda.  That  is  the  new  direction  we  want  to  take  in 
my country, with investment that is for the people, so 
that they may live in dignity and become the engine of 
our  development,  and,  better  still,  so  that  the  general 
welfare of the people can become the firm basis of our 
democracy.
My Government has also committed to a policy of 
zero tolerance for corruption and an end to impunity. 
We expect to face that challenge with the firm support 
of the judiciary and the Office of the Attorney General.
Paraguay’s  economy  has  enviable  numbers.  We 
are the only country in the region that has not altered 
its currency, the guaraní, since it was first introduced 
in 1943. Our macroeconomic indicators are more than 
6/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
encouraging. Paraguay is clearly suited to investment. 
Nature  has  endowed  my  country  with  an  enviable 
climate,  more  than  90  rivers,  abundant  and  fertile 
soil  and  clean,  renewable  energy  generated  by  three 
hydroelectric  power  plants.  One,  Acaray,  is  entirely 
Paraguayan-owned,  while  Itaipu  and  Yacyretá  are 
co-owned with Brazil and Argentina, respectively. The 
latter are among the largest hydroelectric plants in the 
world.  We  have  one  of  the  world’s  largest  freshwater 
reserves, the Guaraní Aquifer, a great part of which lies 
beneath Paraguayan territory.
Apart from the advantages of nature and abundant, 
clean and renewable energy, the majority of Paraguay’s 
population is young, with more than 75 per cent under 
the age of 30. Our tax system is favourable to investment 
and our economic growth clearly exceeds the average 
for  the  region.  My  Government  is  committed  to 
ensuring legal security, with clear and transparent rules 
for safeguarding people and their property.
Today we are a country with a revitalized economy 
and a focus on efficiency, transparency and a reliable 
public administration. A few weeks ago I was present 
in  our  Congress  at  the  signing  of  an  agreement  for 
Paraguay,  whereby  the  political  parties  represented 
in the legislature, along with other social institutions, 
committed 
framework 
agreements and plans of action to strengthen governance 
and attain material and spiritual goals for the people’s 
welfare.  In  that  way,  we  are  seeking  to  maintain  the 
general  good  over  that  of  the  individual.  We  do  that 
through  dialogue,  which  is  the  main  instrument  of 
democracy.  Together,  we  assume  the  responsibility  of 
making Paraguay a country of opportunity for all.
together  on 
to  working 
After visiting countries in Europe and the Americas 
recently, I reflect on the great challenge posed by the 
perception of my country beyond its borders. I have seen 
with  satisfaction  the  respect,  admiration  and  interest 
that Paraguay and its enormous potential give rise to. 
Just as it is our responsibility as Paraguayans to build 
predictability and reliability, it is for the branches of the 
Government to provide the legal security necessary for 
Paraguay’s overdue progress.
like 
I  would 
to  underline  my  Government’s 
commitment  to  the  defence  and  promotion  of  human 
rights,  which  in  Paraguay  are  fully  acknowledged  in 
the Constitution. We assume that stance out of genuine 
conviction,  while  my  country  is  also  a  respectful 
signatory  of  recognized  international  instruments  in 
that field.
The  demands  of  landlocked  developing  countries 
like  Paraguay  must  be  adequately  addressed.  Apart 
from that, my Government is committed to overcome the 
disadvantages posed by our inland status, making our 
geographic position an advantage in communications, 
logistics  and  infrastructure  that  connects  the  world’s 
zones  and  regions  through  Paraguayan  territory.  In  a 
manner similar to that in which an old border dispute 
between Paraguay and Brazil finally gave way to what 
today is Itaipu, transforming a problem into a majestic 
work  of  integration  and  development,  we  hope  that 
our landlocked position in the heart of Latin America 
will  serve  as  a  development  hub  for  Paraguay  and  its 
neighbours.
On the international level, I cannot avoid mentioning 
the upheavals that disturb our times. Economic crises, 
financial disasters, civil wars and the use of weapons 
of mass destruction cloud the horizons of great regions 
of the planet. 
The events in Syria are a concern for all of us, and 
the  United  Nations  must  play  a  pre-eminent  role  in 
finding  a  definitive  solution  to  the  conflict  affecting 
that  country.  In  that  regard,  my  country  calls  for 
supporting 
the  framework 
agreement between the United States and the Russian 
Federation.
implementation  of 
the 
My  Government  has  observed  with  satisfaction 
that  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  has  achieved  a 
greater presence in the specialized agencies and bodies 
of  the  United  Nations,  thanks  to  solid  international 
support  and  a  rapprochement  between  both  parties 
on  the  Taiwan  Strait.  My  Government  will  continue 
to encourage the positive interaction between the two 
sides of the Taiwan Strait in the international sphere.
The calm and determination of the nations and the 
organizations  able  to  help  in  conflict  resolution  are 
more necessary than ever. Paraguay encourages peace, 
dialogue  and  development  in  harmony  with  the  other 
countries and the world, promoting an integration that 
is respectful of the rule of law, the dignity of nations and 
the asymmetries. Integration is a phenomenon that in 
this global era cannot be halted. Paraguay understands 
and  promotes  integration  in  conditions  of  equality  as 
a  means  for  supranational  insertion,  but  under  fair 
conditions and looking towards a common future, not 
as a simple courting of Powers or being a silent guest 
13-48455
7/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
in global forums that are discussing the future of our 
peoples.
govern  the  world  therefore  represent  an  access  to  the 
ocean of development.
Paraguay’s  contribution  is  essential  in  today’s 
integrated  reality  and  is  indissolublely  linked  to  our 
dignity  as  a  free  nation,  sovereign  and  independent, 
under the premise of the right to the self-determination 
of  peoples  and  the  principles  of  non-intervention  and 
the  legal  equality  of  States.  The  true  destiny  of  the 
people of Paraguay is to become a prosperous nation, 
living  in  social  peace,  liberty,  justice  and  equality. 
My management of the Government is geared towards 
creating  and  strengthening  an  environment  suited  to 
the unlimited opportunities that my country offers for 
all  Paraguayans  and  for  foreigners  who  have  chosen 
it.  I  have  realized  that  my  people  neither  want  nor 
seek  handouts,  but  opportunities  to  achieve  dignity 
through  work  and  study.  My  country  therefore  today 
presents  itself  to  the  world  as  a  land  of  opportunities 
for investment and prosperity, with security, formality, 
reliability and predictability.
On  this  occasion,  I  cannot  fail  to  mention  a  key 
issue — education. Traditional political discourse has 
significantly  undermined  certain  core  ideas  that  my 
Government intends to definitively turn into a reality. 
Much  has  been  said  about  the  need  for  education, 
security  and  health,  but  little  has  been  done  in  that 
regard.  Improving  education  in  Paraguay,  in  terms  of 
quantity  and  quality,  is  a  fundamental  premise  of  my 
Government. 
Today  more  than  ever  before,  the  great  change 
that  must  take  place  in  Paraguay  and  the  opening  of 
a wide window of opportunity depend on an efficient 
and inclusive educational system. Institutions of public 
education should rethink their role in society and assume 
an unprecedented role as a breeding ground for leaders 
for a new Paraguay, with a skilled workforce adapted to 
this millennium, in an interconnected world where those 
who possess more knowledge, information and abilities 
are  more  likely  to  find  more  and  better  opportunities 
for work, well-being and personal advancement. Those 
countries that emphasized education from the beginning 
are  proud  of  their  results.  There  is  a  clear  and  direct 
relationship between education and development. 
Education  is  therefore  key.  The  issue  is  rooted 
in  the  quality  of  training  and  is  the  key  to  escaping 
geopolitical  shakles,  backwardness  and  a  lack  of 
opportunities.  For  my  country,  the  new  rules  that 
Speaking before the Assembly and the world for the 
first  time  as  President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  I 
present  the  new  direction  that  the  Paraguayan  people 
freely  and  sovereignly  chose  on  21  April.  I  belong  to 
a  nation  whose  children  have  contributed  to  history 
with  their  prowess  and  boundless  sacrifice,  such  as 
the  supreme  sacrifice  by  our  greatest  hero,  Francisco 
Solano  López,  Field  Marshal  and  President  of  the 
Republic, who decided to give his life, sword in hand, 
fighting on the front lines with his last soldiers, rather 
than  see  his  homeland  humiliated.  I  have  decided  to 
devote myself to the service of Paraguay and to bring 
about the real change that my country demands, which 
is to return to the path of the true Paraguayan destiny 
of peace, development and modernity, and to grow in 
harmony with all nations of the world, particularly with 
our neighbours.
I assure the General Assembly that my country is 
a very generous and attractive place. I invite the world 
to learn more about Paraguay, to discover the treasure 
that pulses in the heart of America, ready to write anew 
the  most  glorious  pages  in  its  history,  today  in  peace 
and social and economic development, with dignity and 
readiness to welcome all those who wish to share in our 
great destiny.
We  Heads  of  State  are  transients  in  Government. 
History  will  judge  us  for  what  we  have  done  for  our 
peoples and will sternly hold us accountable for what 
we have failed to do. To honour the trust and hope of my 
people, I have decided to commit myself wholly to the 
service of my homeland and to do everything necessary 
for its greatness and prosperity.
Paraguay  considers  it  necessary,  more  than  ever 
before,  to  give  greater  impetus  to  the  negotiating 
process between Israel and Palestine in order to attain a 
lasting peace, so that Israel and Palestine can live side 
by side with secure borders and in peace. 
As  a  final  comment,  I  wish  to  convey  my  most 
sincere  condolences  to  the  people  of  Kenya  for  the 
casualties that resulted from the terrorist attack, an act 
that we most vigorously condemn.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made.
8/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia.
Mr.  Andris Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President 
of the Republic of Latvia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
three  pillars  of 
President  Bērziņš:  The 
the 
United  Nations  —  peace  and  security,  sustainable 
development, and human rights — are interlinked and 
mutually  reinforcing.  Respect  for  universal  human 
rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law is a 
cornerstone of international peace and stability.
Fragile,  conflict-affected  and 
least  developed 
countries  face  the  biggest  difficulties  in  ensuring 
sustainable development. Growing evidence shows that 
progress on the Millenium Development Goals in those 
States is impossible without first achieving peace and 
security.  That  leads  us  to  one  of  the  cornerstones  of 
the new post-2015 vision: peace and security are basic 
conditions  for  a  decent  life  and  for  the  enjoyment  of 
human rights.
The  priorities  of  the  Assembly’s  sixty-eighth 
session  are  topical and  very  pertinent.  The  new 
development framework for post-2015 will remain high 
on  the  United  Nations  agenda  for  the  next  two  years 
and  beyond.  It  should  set  out  a  comprehensive  and 
coherent framework around a single set of global goals, 
driving action in all countries. A set of peacebuilding 
goals should be high on the post-2015 agenda, in which 
the United Nations should continue to play the leading 
role in promoting the settlement of disputes by peaceful 
means.
The Middle East stands at a crossroads. Events there 
have  global  impact,  and  the  international  community 
must take decisive actions.
We 
deplore 
the 
continuing 
humanitarian 
catastrophe  in  Syria.  The  easing  of  human  suffering 
is the immediate goal, and we commend international 
efforts to that end. I would especially like to thank the 
neighbouring  countries  for  hosting  Syrian  refugees. 
The  detailed  report  by  the  United  Nations  inspectors 
confirms the use of chemical weapons against civilians 
on  21  August.  Those  who  committed  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  in  Syria  must  face  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The  agreement  reached 
by  the  United  States  and  Russia  on  the  framework  to 
eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons should be reflected 
in a Security Council resolution with the clear indication 
that Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations 
would be invoked in case of non-compliance.
We  encourage  the  new  Iranian  leadership  to 
address  the  concerns  of  the  international  community. 
We  welcome  the  stated  determination  of  the  new 
Iranian Government to resolve the nuclear issue, thus 
building confidence in the peaceful nature of its nuclear 
programme.
Latvia  welcomes  the  reopening  of  direct  Middle 
East  peace  negotiations.  Latvia  praises 
the  role 
of  the  United  States  as  the  mediator.  Negotiations 
should  demonstrate  the  commitment  of  both  parties 
to  a  peaceful  settlement.  We  anticipate  a  two-State 
solution —  Israel  and  Palestine  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security.
Latvia is convinced that the resolution of protracted 
conflicts in Moldova, Georgia and Nagorno Karabakh 
should remain high on the international agenda. Efforts 
to resolve the conflicts should be increased.
Latvia  accumulated  extensive  experience  during 
its transition to a free, just and democratic society. As 
a  European  Union  member  State  with  that  extensive 
experience, we share it with countries in the European 
Union’s  Eastern  Partnership  and  Central  Asia.  Latvia 
will  continue  to  offer  its  expertise  in  such  areas  as 
the  rule  of  law  and  fundamental  freedoms,  thereby 
contributing to good governance and further economic 
development in those countries. However, it is essential 
to keep in mind that national ownership is fundamental 
in any reform process, .
Latvia  is  stepping  up  development  assistance  for 
Afghanistan and the Central Asian States, particularly 
in  the  areas  of  transportation  and  customs.  We  see 
potential for the further integration of those countries 
into  the  global  economy  by  developing  international 
13-48455
9/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
trade routes. The Northern Distribution Network already 
connects  the  region  with  Europe  through  Latvia.  We 
are  confident  that  it  can  also  become  a  commercially 
viable long-term transit corridor after 2014.
We are approaching an important turning point in 
Afghanistan. In order to secure the progress achieved, 
the  international  community  must  remain  committed 
to  the  country’s  long-term  development.  Latvia  will 
continue  to  support  civilian  policing  and  to  train 
military personnel. We will also provide financial aid 
to the Afghan National Security Forces as of 2015.
Sustainable  development  and  prosperity  go  hand 
in hand. During times of recession, structural reforms 
and  budgetary  discipline,  accompanied  by  economic 
stimulus,  bring  results.  While  we  can  observe  signs 
of  global  economic  recovery,  there  is  no  room  for 
complacency. 
To  ensure  robust  economic  growth,  we  need  to 
ensure  that  the  young  generation  contributes  to  it. 
Quality  education  is  the  key  to  empowering  people; 
it  should  reach  all.  Everybody  should  have  lifelong 
learning  opportunities.  Quality  education 
the 
foundation on which peaceful, prosperous and dignified 
societies are built.
is 
Following the economic downturn in 2008, Latvia 
has been the fastest growing European Union economy 
for the past two years. We expect to maintain that strong 
growth trend at the level of at least 4 per cent annually 
for the coming years. Latvia is now ready for further 
integration  into  the  global  economy  by  introducing 
the  euro  in  2014  and  by  joining  the  Organization  for 
Economic Cooperation and Development.
An  empowered  civil  society  is  a  key  engine  of 
sustainable development. We are proud that the people 
of Latvia are actively engaged in the decision-making 
process  at  all  stages.  In  the  twenty-first  century  the 
public involvement’s must be ensured both directly and 
on  line.  Latvia  has  been  working  actively  to  protect 
and promote Internet freedom as an important element 
of  freedom  of  expression  for  an  open  and  democratic 
society.
Latvia  stands  ready  to  contribute  to  the  most 
fundamental goals that should figure on the post-2015 
agenda,  namely,  promoting  peace,  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. Therefore, we have put forward 
our  candidacy  for  the  elections  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  2014  and  the  Security  Council  in  2025. 
Latvia  counts  on  the  support  of  Member  States  and 
gives its assurance that it will contribute to the work of 
those bodies in a responsible manner.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Latvia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President 
of the Republic of Liberia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Liberia.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf, 
President of the Republic of Liberia, and to invite her to 
address the Assembly.
President  Johnson-Sirleaf:  I  am  honoured  to 
address the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session 
on behalf of the Government and people of Liberia and 
to extend my warmest congratulations to the President 
and to the Government of Antigua and Barbuda on the 
occasion  of  his  election  as  President  of  the  Assembly 
at this session. I trust that he will bring his wealth of 
experience to bear on the work of the current session. In 
a similar vein, I congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić of the Republic of Serbia, for his leadership of 
the  Assembly  at  the  sixty-seventh  session  and  for  the 
initiatives he undertook during his tenure.
Let  me  also  extend  my  special  appreciation  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  inspiring 
leadership  and  his  visionary  initiatives  that  have 
mobilized  the  international  community  around  many 
noble  objectives.  Those  initiatives  have  engendered 
hope among the people around the world, especially the 
poor and marginalized.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  the  growing 
number of acts of senseless violence around the world, 
as exemplified by the ghastly and cowardly murder of 
innocent  persons  in  a  terrorist  attack  on  a  shopping 
10/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
mall in Kenya. We commiserate with the families of all 
victims and with the Government and sisterly people of 
Kenya on such a terrible loss.
Because we know first-hand the profound destruction 
and  long-lasting  hurt  inherent  in  civil  conflict,  we 
also  agonize  with  the  people  of  Syria,  particularly 
those  innocent  women  and  children  who  suffer  most 
from  such  tragedy.  We  unequivocally  condemn  the 
use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  and  anywhere  else 
in  the  world,  and  we  call  for  concerted  and  renewed 
international  effort  to  stem  the  rising  scourge  of 
terrorism and other transnational crimes through action 
to control and eliminate weapons of mass destruction.
We  welcome  the  communications  revolution  that 
has provided a broad cyber platform for the exchange 
of  information.  However,  that  should  not  provide  a 
vehicle  for  the  promotion  of  terrorism  and  the  spread 
of  unfounded  and  irresponsible  information  through 
unregulated cyber weaponry that threatens the security 
of nations, particularly fragile States, and open societies 
of freedom and democracy.
Colleague  after  colleague  who  will  address 
the  Assembly  will  no  doubt  express  pride  at  the 
tremendous progress in Africa. Our continental growth 
has  averaged  over  5  percent  annually,  surpassing 
that  of  other  regions.  Moreover,  our  economies  are 
diversifying, our trade infrastructure is expanding, our 
democracies are strong and maturing, and our regional 
institutions strengthening and leading the processes of 
cooperation and integration. But the new Africa story 
is not just about growth. We see improvement in school 
enrolment, health indicators, in trade and investment. 
The  share  of  people  living  in  poverty  is  declining. 
Democracy, while still needing room for improvement, 
has  become  the  norm  rather  than  the  exception,  and 
governance  has  improved  significantly  over  the  past 
decade.
We are equally pleased with the progress made in 
resolving  conflicts  in  several  of  our  countries,  as  we 
welcome the international support that has set Somalia 
on a trajectory of peace and development.
We  appreciate  the  strong  collaboration  among 
regional  economic  communities,  the  African  Union 
and  the  United  Nations,  joined  by  the  international 
community,  that  responded  robustly  in  the  Malian 
crisis, thereby averting the threat posed to the peace and 
security  of  the  entire  region.  The  recent  inauguration 
of  a  new,  democratically  elected  President  in  Mali  is 
a  clear  indication  that  such  cooperation  is  the  surest 
path to world peace. We congratulate the newly elected 
President  of  Mali,  Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  for 
receiving the overwhelming endorsement of the Malian 
people, and we commend all stakeholders for respecting 
the outcome of the democratic process. We also salute 
the former interim President, Mr. Dioncounda Traoré, 
and  all  partners  for  working  to  restore  constitutional 
order within the stipulated time period.
Although Liberia still faces the residual challenges 
of  its  own  conflict,  and  despite  our  size  and  limited 
military  strength,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  a  small 
contingent of Liberian troops is currently participating 
in  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali. We view our role in that 
peacekeeping effort as a way of reciprocating, albeit in 
a small way, the countless demonstrations of friendship 
and  goodwill  that  were  accorded  to  us  by  Mali  and 
other members of the international community during 
our dark days of war.
Once the epicentre of a regional war, I am pleased 
to note that the neighboring countries of the Mano River 
Union  —  Côte  D’Ivoire,  Guinea,  Sierra  Leone  and 
Liberia — are at peace and engaged in consolidating the 
gains of stability to accelerate national transformation 
through regional integration. A new Mano River Union 
initiative will facilitate connectivity in our power and 
transport  systems,  thereby  enhancing  cross-border 
trade, in which our market women are actively engaged.
I bring greetings from the Government and people 
of Liberia, who are this year celebrating 10 consecutive 
years  of  peace  and  progress.  In  those  10  years,  our 
nation’s pride has been restored and we have returned 
to  the  community  of  nations  as  a  respectable  and 
responsible partner. With the support of the international 
community,  especially  the  United  Nations  through 
its  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  efforts,  we  have 
rebuilt a new ethnically balanced professional army and 
increased  the  size  and  enhanced  the  professionalism 
of  our  police,  immigration  and  intelligence  forces,  in 
line  with  our  commitment  to  bear  full  responsibility 
for  security  with  in  our  borders  as  United  Nations 
peacekeepers execute a phased drawdown.
In that regard, we commend the Security Council 
for  its  recent  adoption  of  resolution  2116  (2013), 
which  extends  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping Mission in Liberia to 30 September 2014. 
We fully commit to meeting all the expectations of the 
13-48455
11/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
resolution, including continuing to take concrete steps 
aimed at developing and sustaining a self-sufficient and 
competent security sector able to tackle violent crimes, 
sexual and gender-based violence and the infringement 
of the rights of the ordinary person. 
Thanks  to  our  commitment  and  the  resilience 
of  the  Liberian  people,  we  have  instituted  a  host  of 
reforms  intended  to  improve  governance,  enhance 
accountability  and  create  an  enabling  environment 
for the exercise of basic freedoms, including freedom 
of  speech  and  the  press.  That  has  put  the  country  on 
a  path  of  irreversible  progress,  which  has  enabled  us 
to  conduct  two  democratic  presidential  and  general 
elections  and  adjust  our  Vision  2030,  while  laying  a 
firm foundation for the transformation of our economy 
towards  moving  our  country  to  middle-income  status 
by the year 2030.
Liberia has come a long way, but we know that we 
have  an  even  longer  way  to  go.  We  have  done  much 
in  restoring  basic  services  and  infrastructure,  but 
still have much to do, especially in reducing our huge 
infrastructure deficits in power and in transport. We have 
done much in improving governance and strengthening 
our institutions of integrity, but still have much more 
to  do  in  consolidating  the  culture  of  integrity  and 
accountability in a society that is still beset by values 
occasioned by years of conflict. We have adopted laws 
and  policies  that  eschew  discrimination  of  any  kind, 
to ensure social equity and equal opportunity, but still 
must do more in promoting natural reconciliation and 
healing.  We  have  done  much  in  achieving  an  average 
annual  growth  of  over  7  per  cent  and  attracted  huge 
multi-million-dollar 
investments, 
especially in our natural resource sector, but still have 
much more to do in expanding growth and diversifying 
our  economy,  making  it  more  resilient  to  internal 
and  external  shocks  and  more  responsive  to  the  ever-
increasing demand of our people for jobs and improved 
livelihoods. We still have much to do in continuing the 
reforms that will ensure equitable benefits from natural 
resource capital to current and future generations.
foreign 
direct 
All the policies and actions that we have pursued in 
the past several years have enabled us to stabilize our 
overall national condition. We must now, over the next 
few years, take the hard decisions in addressing long-
standing structural systems. We know that the transition 
from stabilization to transformation can be a long and 
hard road subject to brickbats from vested interests. We 
are bound to face criticism as we attempt to apply and 
respect the rule of law and as we challenge entrenched 
social  habits,  but  we  must  change  old  mindsets  and 
attitudes. We remain strong in that resolve, for it is the 
right thing to do.
I was honoured to have been selected by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  as  one  of  three  co-Chairs  of 
a  27-member  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons 
tasked with making recommendations for a new global 
development  agenda  post-2015.  The  mandate  of  the 
Panel  was  to  advise  the  Secretary-General  on  a  bold 
and  practical  development  agenda  beyond  2015  that 
builds  upon,  as  well  as  goes  beyond,  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  establishing  new  goals  that 
are  ambitious  and  yet  achievable.  Last  May,  the 
Panel  submitted  its  report  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  consideration.  We  are  pleased  that  many  of 
the  principles  we  identified  are  emphasized  in  the 
Secretary General’s report (A/68/202), rightly titled “A 
life of dignity for a11”. 
Today  more  than  at  any  other  time,  we  have  an 
opportunity  to  transform  our  world;  to  pursue  an 
agenda  that  will  eradicate  poverty  while  at  the  same 
time sustaining nature to secure natural resources for 
future  generations.  The  solutions  of  yesterday  may 
not  apply  today’s  challenges,  so  we  must  muster  the 
courage  to  take  bold  steps.  I  therefore  call  upon  the 
Assembly  to  reflect  on  the  emerging  challenges  we 
face, to boldly seize new opportunities and to commit 
ourselves  to  a  new  global  partnership  that  promotes 
economic and social transformations for inclusive and 
shared prosperity for all.
In  Africa  we  are  working  towards  a  continental 
consensus that will convey an African position on the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  I  am  pleased  to  have 
been  asked  by  the  African  Union  Summit  to  chair  a 
high-level  committee  of  10  Heads  of  State  that  will 
oversee and guide the process. We held our first meeting 
yesterday  here  in  New  York,  and  agreed  upon  a  road 
map that will ensure a global development framework 
that  is  not  only  brave  and  ambitious,  but  one  that 
reflects African priorities, a global agenda that creates 
an  enabling  environment  for  Africa’s  transformation 
that  includes  infrastructure  development,  increased 
productive  capacities,  resilience  to  external  shocks 
and enhanced statistical capacities that will result will 
accelerate  the  reation  of  employment  that  is  directed 
particularly to our youthful populations.
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  on  2  September,  I 
chaired  and  launched  the  High-level  Panel  on  Fragile 
12/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
States,  under  the  aegis  of  the  African  Development 
Bank. Of the estimated 7 billion people in the world, 
1.5  billion  live  in  situations  of  conflict  and  fragility. 
That  data  puts  fragile  States  at  the  centre  of  the  new 
post-2015 agenda. We hold the view that international 
partners  should  accommodate  the  peculiarities  and 
special  circumstances  of  post-conflict  nations.  The 
achievement  of  sustained  economic  growth  and 
development  in  those  countries  is  critical  to  reducing 
their  vulnerability  to  new  political  and  economic 
shocks,  fuelled  in  many  cases  by  high  expectation 
gaps that need to be mitigated. We therefore call on all 
our  partners  to  renew  their  support  to  the  New  Deal 
for  Engagement  on  Fragile  States,  which  calls  for 
stronger ownership, harmonization, results and mutual 
accountability.
The President returned to the Chair.
I would like to conclude by expressing our gratitude 
to the United Nations family for sustaining our agenda 
of  peacebuilding  and  sustainable  development.  Since 
its  founding,  the  United  Nations  has  had  its  share  of 
challenges,  but  it  remains  the  beacon  of  hope  for  the 
peoples of the world who thirst for peace; a world that 
is fair, a world that is prosperous, a world in which the 
uncommon  dreams  of  all  will  have  a  fair  chance  of 
realization; a world where the weak can become strong; 
a world where no nation feels developed and powerful 
until all nations have their share of global wealth. The 
leaders  of  today  must  rise  to  those  challenges.  The 
future begins today. We must commit to a new global 
development  trajectory  that  gives  all  of  humankind  a 
world of peace, dignity and prosperity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Liberia 
for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Rouhani  (spoke  in  Farsi;  English  text 
provided by the delgation): Mr. President, at the outset, I 
would like to offer my most sincere felicitations on your 
deserved election as President of the General Assembly 
and to seize the moment to express appreciation for the 
valuable efforts of the Secretary-General.
Our world today is replete with fear and hope — fear 
of  war  and  hostile  regional  and  global  relations;  fear 
of deadly confrontation between religious, ethnic and 
national  identities;  fear  of  the  institutionalization  of 
violence and extremism; fear of poverty and destructive 
discrimination;  fear  of  decay  and  the  destruction  of 
life-sustaining  resources;  fear  of  the  disregard  for 
human  dignity  and  rights;  and  fear  of  the  neglect  of 
morality. Alongside those fears, however, there are new 
hopes — the hope of the universal acceptance of “yes 
to peace and no to war” by the people and the elite all 
across  the  globe;  and  the  hope  that  dialogue  will  be 
preferred over conflict and moderation over extremism.
The recent election in Iran represents a clear, living 
example  of  the  wise  choice  for  hope,  rationality  and 
moderation by the great people of Iran. The realization 
of democracy consistent with religion and the peaceful 
transfer of executive power showed that Iran is an anchor 
of  stability  in  an  ocean  of  regional  instabilities.  The 
firm belief of our people and Government in enduring 
peace, stability, tranquillity, the peaceful resolution of 
disputes and the reliance on the ballot box as the basis 
of power, public acceptance and legitimacy has indeed 
played a key role in creating such a safe environment.
transition 
The  current  critical  period  of 
in 
international  relations  is  replete  with  dangers,  albeit 
also with unique opportunities. Any miscalculation of 
one’s own position, and of course those of others, will 
cause damage on a historic scale; a mistake by one actor 
will have a negative impact on all others. Vulnerability 
is now a global and indivisible phenomenon.
At  this  sensitive  juncture  in  the  history  of  global 
relations,  the  age  of  zero-sum  games  is  over,  even 
though  a  few  actors  still  tend  to  rely  on  archaic  and 
deeply ineffective ways and means of preserving their 
old  superiority  and  domination.  Militarism  and  the 
recourse to violent and military means for the purposes 
13-48455
13/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
of  subjugating  others  have  shown  themselves  to  be 
failed examples of the perpetuation of old ways in new 
circumstances.
Coercive  economic  and  military  policies  and 
practices geared to the maintenance and preservation of 
old superiorities and domination have been pursued in a 
conceptual mindset that negates peace, security, human 
dignity and exalted human ideals. Ignoring differences 
between societies and globally imposing Western values 
as universal values represent further manifestations of 
that conceptual mindset. Yet another reflection of the 
same  cognitive  model  is  the  persistence  of  the  Cold 
War mentality and the bipolar division of the world into 
the “superior us” and the “inferior other”. Fanning fear 
and phobia around the emergence of new actors on the 
world scene is still another.
In  such  an  environment,  governmental  and 
non-governmental,  religious,  ethnic  and  even  racial 
violence  has  increased,  and  there  is  no  guarantee 
that the era of quiet among major Powers will remain 
inviolate under the pressure of such violent discourse, 
practices  and  actions.  The  catastrophic  impact  of 
violent and extremist narratives should not — in fact, 
must not — be underestimated.
In  that  context,  the  strategic  violence  that  is 
manifested  in  efforts  to  deprive  regional  players  of 
their  natural  domain  of  action,  containment  policies, 
regime change from the outside and efforts to redraw 
political borders and frontiers, is extremely dangerous 
and  provocative.  The  prevalent  international  political 
discourse  depicts  a  civilized  centre  surrounded  by 
uncivilized  peripheries.  In  that  scenario,  the  relation 
between the centre of world power and the peripheries 
is hegemonic. 
The discourse that assigns centre stage to the North 
while relegating the South to the periphery has led to the 
establishment of a monologue in international relations. 
The  creation  of  illusory  identity  distinctions  and  the 
current  prevalent  violent  forms  of  xenophobia  are  the 
inevitable  outcome  of  such  discourse.  Propagandistic 
and unfounded faith-phobic, Islamophobic, Shiaphobic 
and Iranophobic discourse indeed represents a serious 
threat  to  world  peace  and  human  security.  That 
propagandistic  discourse  has  assumed  dangerous 
proportions  through  the  portrayal  and  inculcation  of 
presumed  imaginary  threats.  One  such  imaginary 
threat  is  the  so-called  Iranian  threat,  which  has  been 
employed  as  an  excuse  to  justify  a  long  catalogue  of 
crimes  and  catastrophic  practices  over  the  past  three 
decades.  The  arming  of  the  Saddam  Hussein  regime 
with chemical weapons and support for the Taliban and 
Al-Qaida  are  just  two  examples  of  such  catastrophes. 
Let me say in all sincerity before this world Assembly 
that, based on irrefutable evidence, those who harp on 
the  so-called  threat  of  Iran  are  either  a  threat  against 
international peace and security themselves or promote 
such  a  threat.  Iran  poses  absolutely  no  threat  to  the 
world or to the region. In fact, in its ideals as well as in 
actual practice, my country has been a harbinger of just 
peace and comprehensive security.
Nowhere  in  the  world  has  violence  been  so 
deadly  and  destructive  as  in  North  Africa  and  West 
Asia.  Military  intervention  in  Afghanistan,  Saddam 
Hussein’s  imposed  war  against  Iran,  the  occupation 
of  Kuwait,  military  interventions  against  Iraq,  the 
brutal  repression  of 
the 
assassination  of  ordinary  people  and  political  figures 
in Iran and terrorist bombings in countries such as Iraq, 
Afghanistan and Lebanon are examples of the acts of 
violence  committed  in  that  region  in  the  past  three 
decades.
the  Palestinian  people, 
What  has  been  and  continues  to  be  practiced 
against the innocent people of Palestine is nothing less 
than structural violence. Palestine is under occupation; 
the basic rights of the Palestinians are being tragically 
violated,  and  they  are  deprived  of  the  right  of  return 
and  access  to  their  homes,  birthplace  and  homeland. 
Apartheid as a concept can hardly describe the crimes 
and the institutionalized aggression committed against 
the innocent Palestinian people.
The  human  tragedy  in  Syria  represents  a  painful 
example  of  the  catastrophic  spread  of  violence  and 
extremism  in  our  region.  From  the  very  outset  of  the 
crisis,  when  certain  regional  and  international  actors 
helped to militarize the situation through the infusion 
of  arms  and  intelligence  into  the  country  and  active 
support for extremist groups, we emphasized that there 
was no military solution to the Syrian crisis. The pursuit 
of expansionist strategies and objectives and attempts 
to change the regional balance through proxies cannot 
be camouflaged behind humanitarian rhetoric. 
The  common  objective  of 
international 
community  should  be  a  quick  end  to  the  killing  of 
the  innocent.  While  condemning  any  use  of  chemical 
weapons,  we  welcome  Syria’s  acceptance  of  the 
Chemical Weapons Convention and believe that access 
the 
14/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
by  extremist  terrorist  groups  to  such  weapons  poses 
the greatest possible danger to the region and must be 
considered  in  any  disarmament  plan.  Simultaneously, 
I would underline that any illegitimate and ineffective 
threat of use, or the actual use of, force will only lead 
to the further exacerbation of violence and crisis in the 
region.
Terrorism  and  the  killing  of  innocent  persons 
represent  the  ultimate  inhumanity  of  extremism  and 
violence. Terrorism is a violent scourge and knows no 
national  borders.  But  violence  and  extreme  actions, 
such  as  the  use  of  drones,  against  innocent  people 
in  the  name  of  combating  terrorism  should  also  be 
condemned. Here I should also like to say a word about 
the criminal assassination of Iranian nuclear scientists. 
For  what  crimes  were  they  assassinated?  The  United 
Nations  and  its  Security  Council  should  answer  this 
question — have the perpetrators been condemned?
Unjust  sanctions,  as  a  manifestation  of  structural 
violence, are intrinsically inhumane and against peace. 
Contrary to the claims of those who pursue and impose 
them,  it  is  not  the  States  and  the  political  elite  that 
are targeted; rather, it is the common people who are 
victimized  by  such  sanctions.  Let  us  not  forget  the 
millions of Iraqis who, as a result of sanctions cloaked in 
international legal jargon, suffered and lost their lives, 
and the many more who continue to suffer throughout 
their  lives.  Those  sanctions  are  violent,  pure  and 
simple,  whether  called  smart  or  otherwise,  unilateral 
or multilateral. They violate inalienable human rights, 
inter alia, the right to peace, the right to development, 
the right to access to health and education, and, above 
all,  the  right  to  life.  Sanctions,  beyond  any  and  all 
rhetoric, cause belligerence, warmongering and human 
suffering. It should be borne in mind, however, that their 
negative impact is not limited merely to their intended 
victims; it also affects the economy and livelihood of 
other  countries  and  societies,  including  the  countries 
imposing sanctions.
Today  violence  and  extremism  have  gone  beyond 
the physical realm and, unfortunately, have afflicted and 
tarnished the mental and spiritual dimensions of life in 
human societies. Violence and extremism leave no space 
for  understanding  and  moderation  as  the  necessary 
foundations of the collective life of human beings and 
modern society. Intolerance is the predicament of our 
time.  We  need  to  promote  and  reinforce  tolerance  in 
the  light  of  the  religious  teachings  and  appropriate 
cultural  and  political  approaches.  Human  society 
should be elevated from a state of mere tolerance to one 
of collective collaboration. We should not just tolerate 
others. We should rise above mere tolerance and dare to 
work together.
People  the  world  over  are  tired  of  war,  violence 
and  extremism.  They  are  hoping  for  a  change  in  the 
status quo. This is a unique opportunity for us all. The 
Islamic Republic of Iran believes that all challenges can 
be  managed  successfully  through  a  smart,  judicious 
blend  of  hope  and  moderation.  Warmongers  are  bent 
on extinguishing all hope. But hope for change for the 
better is an innate, religious, widespread and universal 
concept.
Hope  is  founded  on  the  belief  in  the  universal 
will of the people across the globe to combat violence 
and extremism, to cherish change, to oppose imposed 
structures, to value choice and to act in accordance with 
human  responsibility.  Hope  is  without  a  doubt  one  of 
the greatest gifts bestowed upon human beings by their 
all-loving Creator. And moderation means to think and 
move  in  a  wise,  judicious  manner,  conscious  of  time 
and  space,  and  to  align  exalted  ideals  with  a  choice 
of  effective  strategies  and  policies,  while  remaining 
cognizant of objective realities.
The  Iranian  people,  in  a  judiciously  sober  choice 
in the recent elections, voted for the discourse of hope, 
foresight  and  prudent  moderation,  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  In  foreign  policy,  the  combination  of  those 
elements  means  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  as 
a  regional  power,  will  act  responsibly  with  regard  to 
regional  and  international  security  and  is  willing  and 
prepared  to  cooperate  in  these  fields,  bilaterally  as 
well  as  multilaterally,  with  other  responsible  actors. 
We  defend  peace  based  on  democracy  and  the  ballot 
box everywhere, including in Syria, Bahrain and other 
countries  of  the  region,  and  believe  that  there  are  no 
violent  solutions  to  world  crises.  The  bitter  and  ugly 
realities of human society can be overcome only through 
recourse to and reliance on human wisdom, interaction 
and  moderation.  Peace,  democracy  and  the  legitimate 
rights  of  all  countries  in  the  world,  including  in  the 
Middle  East,  cannot  and  will  not  be  secured  through 
militarism.
Iran seeks to resolve problems, not to create them. 
There  is  no  issue  or  dossier  that  cannot  be  resolved 
through reliance on hope, prudent moderation, mutual 
respect  and  the  rejection  of  violence  and  extremism. 
Iran’s  nuclear  dossier  is  a  case  in  point.  As  clearly 
13-48455
15/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
stated  by  the  leader  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
acceptance  of  Iran’s  inalienable  rights  constitutes  the 
best  and  easiest  way  of  resolving  this  issue.  This  is 
not political rhetoric. Rather, it is based on a profound 
recognition  of  the  state  of  technology  in  Iran,  the 
global political environment, the end of the era of zero-
sum  games  and  the  imperative  of  seeking  common 
objectives  and  interests  in  order  to  reach  common 
understanding and shared security. Put otherwise, Iran 
and other actors should pursue two common objectives 
as two mutually inseparable parts of a political solution 
for Iran’s nuclear dossier.
First,  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  —  and  for  that 
matter,  that  of  all  other  countries  —  must  pursue 
exclusively  peaceful  purposes.  I  declare  here,  openly 
and  unambiguously, 
that,  notwithstanding  others’ 
positions, this has been and always will be the objective 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  Nuclear  and  other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  have  no  place  in  Iran’s 
security  and  defence  doctrine,  and  contradict  our 
fundamental  religious  and  ethical  convictions.  Our 
national  interests  make  it  imperative  that  we  remove 
any and all reasonable concerns about Iran’s peaceful 
nuclear programme.
The second objective — acceptance of and respect 
for  the  implementation  of  the  right  to  enrichment 
inside Iran and the enjoyment of other related nuclear 
rights — provides the only path towards achieving the 
first  objective.  Nuclear  knowledge  in  Iran  has  now 
been  domesticated  and  nuclear  technology,  including 
enrichment,  has  already  reached  an  industrial  scale. 
It  is  therefore  an  illusion  and  extremely  unrealistic 
to  presume  that  the  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme  could  be  ensured  by 
the 
programme via illegitimate pressures.
impeding 
In  this  context,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
insisting  on  enjoying  its  rights  and  the  imperative  of 
international respect and cooperation in this exercise, 
is prepared to engage immediately in time-bound and 
results-oriented  talks  to  build  mutual  confidence  and 
ensure  the  removal  of  mutual  uncertainties  with  full 
transparency.
Iran  seeks  constructive  engagement  with  other 
countries  based  on  mutual  respect  and  common 
interests  and,  within  the  same  framework,  does  not 
seek  to  increase  tensions  with  the  United  States.  I 
listened  carefully  to  the  statement  made  by  President 
Obama  today  in  the  General  Assembly.  With  efforts 
commensurate with the political will of the leadership 
in  the  United  States,  and  hoping  that  they  will 
refrain  from  following  the  short-sighted  interests  of 
warmongering  pressure  groups,  we  can  arrive  at  a 
framework to manage our differences. To this end, equal 
footing,  mutual  respect  and  the  recognized  principles 
of international law should govern our interactions. Of 
course,  we  expect  to  hear  a  consistent  message  from 
Washington, D. C.
In recent years, a dominant message has been heard 
reiterating  again  and  again  that  the  military  option  is 
on  the  table.  Against  the  backdrop  of  this  illegal  and 
ineffective assertion, let me say loud and clear that peace 
is within reach. So, on behalf of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran, I propose, as a first step, the consideration by the 
United Nations of a project to be known as “A World 
Against Violence and Extremism”. Let us all ride this 
wave. I invite all States, international organizations and 
civil institutions to undertake a new effort to guide the 
world in this direction. We should start thinking about 
a coalition for enduring peace across the entire globe 
instead of ineffective coalitions for war in various parts 
of the world.
Today,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  urges  the 
Assembly  and  the  entire  world  community  to  take  a 
step forward by accepting our invitation to join A World 
Against Violence and Extremism. We should accept and 
be  able  to  open  up  new  horizons  in  which  peace  will 
prevail over war, tolerance over violence, progress over 
bloodshed, justice over discrimination, prosperity over 
poverty  and  freedom  over  despotism.  As  beautifully 
stated by Ferdowsi, the renowned Iranian epic poet:
“Be relentless in striving for the cause of good;
Bring the spring, you must; 
Banish the winter, you should.”
Notwithstanding all the difficulties and challenges 
before  us,  I  am  deeply  optimistic  about  the  future.  I 
have no doubt that the future will be bright, with the 
entire world solidly rejecting violence and extremism. 
Prudent  moderation  will  ensure  a  bright  future  for 
the world. My hope, aside from personal and national 
experience,  emanates  from  the  belief  shared  by  all 
divine religions that a good and bright future awaits the 
world. As stated in the Holy Koran:
“And  certainly  We  wrote  in  the  Book  after 
the  reminder  that  (as  for)  the  land,  My  righteous 
servants shall inherit it.” (The Holy Koran, XXI:105)
16/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of 
the Gabonese Republic 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Gabonese Republic.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of  the 
Gabonese  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Bongo  Ondimba  (spoke  in  French):  I 
am  honoured  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  Gabon  at 
the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  Assembly.  I  warmly 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President and 
I assure you of Gabon’s full support. I also pay tribute 
to the remarkable work of your predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session. I wish to reiterate our confidence in the 
cross-cutting work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  as  well  as  the  important  organizational 
reforms undertaken.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Boubacar 
Keita  of  the  Republic  of  Mali  and  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hassan Rouhani of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
their elections in their respective countries. 
This session has opened in a context marked by the 
terrorist attack against a shopping centre in Nairobi that 
killed many innocent people, including children. It was 
an  intolerable  act  and  I  express,  here  in  the  Hall,  my 
country’s  strongest  condemnation  of  the  perpetrators. 
I  also  express  my  own  and  my  country’s  deepest 
condolences  to  the  victims’  families  and  the  people 
of Kenya. Gabon offers its support to the Government 
of Kenya at this trying time. As a target of terrorism, 
Africa  should  receive  the  international  community’s 
full support and solidarity in its fight against the threat.
Poverty  fuels  extremism  throughout  the  world, 
and  the  fight  against  that  scourge  must  remain  at  the 
heart of our policies. Our peoples, especially the youth, 
demand  greater  socioeconomic  progress  from  us.  I 
therefore  welcome  the  opportunity  at  this  session  to 
set the stage for the post-2015 development agenda and 
consider the necessary action remaining to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  MDGs 
have provided a global solidarity pact for our countries’ 
socioeconomic development. I would like to emphasize 
here  that  Gabon  has  achieved  noteworthy  progress  in 
poverty reduction, food security and education. We have 
significantly  reduced  infant  and  maternal  mortality, 
HIV/AIDS prevalence and malaria mortality. We have 
strengthened  women’s  participation  in  the  political 
and  economic  life  of  the  country.  Despite  the  efforts 
made by States, it must be recognized that some of the 
MDGs will not be achieved as expected, owing mainly 
to unfulfilled commitments and reduced funding.
In that context, Gabon draws two main conclusions: 
the  importance  of  strengthened  governance  and  the 
need for further efforts in education and health aimed 
at  more  equitable  and  inclusive  growth.  As  members 
begin to consider the post-2015 development agenda, I 
wish to note that Gabon seeks a post-2015 development 
agenda  with  a  particular  focus  on  Africa’s  priorities; 
it  would  include  the  unrealized  MDGs  among  the 
future  sustainable  development  goals  and  would  take 
into account specific issues such as energy, access to 
clean  water  and  sustainable  agriculture.  My  country 
also  seeks  an  agenda  based  on  predictable  funding 
that  combines  public  and  private  funding,  innovative 
financing and global partnerships. That agenda should 
stimulate  direct  investment  and  increase  our  share  of 
international trade. It must promote the transformation 
of  our  economies  with  a  view  to  inclusive  and 
sustainable growth.
Such an approach has led me, as the Chairman of the 
Central African Economic and Monetary Community, 
to  propose  to  my  peers  —  who  have  accepted  —  the 
creation  of  a  fund  of  $200  million  for  the  training 
and  employment  of  young  people,  entitled  “Train  My 
Generation”.  Its  goal  is  to  enhance  the  role  of  youth 
in our countries’ development efforts. In that spirit, at 
the  fifth  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development,  I  proposed  to  my  peers  that  by  2020 
Africa should be able to convert its raw materials prior 
to exportation. Using that approach, Gabon is already 
13-48455
17/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
processing  40  per  cent  of  its  timber  locally,  thereby 
doubling employment in that sector.
In the context of the post-2015 development agenda, 
improved  assessment  and  monitoring  of  countries’ 
progress  will  become  important.  To  that  end,  Gabon 
has proposed a sustainable development index that will 
combine the human development index and countries’ 
ecological footprints.
Our  quest  for  sustainable  development  must  also 
ensure a binding climate treaty. Our best global experts 
tirelessly draw attention to global warming. The very 
existence of some States is threatened. It is necessary 
to state that we remain prisoners of our own interests 
and climate sceptics. For its part, Gabon has assumed 
its  responsibilities  by  implementing  measures  such 
as  our  land-use  programme  and  our  environmental 
programme.  Can  we  advance  towards  a  post-Kyoto 
agreement in 2015 through strong and courageous steps 
in  the  interest  of  future  generations?  That  question 
should  cause  greater  concern.  That  is  why  I  fully 
support the Secretary-General’s initiative to convene a 
summit on climate change in 2014.
In  addition  to  climate,  biodiversity  is  threatened 
by poaching and the illicit trade in protected species. 
Elephants  and  rhinoceros  are  especially  threatened 
owing  to  the  illegal  trade  in  ivory  and  horns.  That 
phenomenon  has  become  both  an  ecologic  and  an 
economic  challenge;  it  is  a  transnational  crime  that 
threatens  States’  security.  Along  with  the  Federal 
Republic of Germany and other States, we have initiated 
a  debate  on  that  issue.  On  26  September,  here  at  the 
United Nations, an event will take place on the sidelines 
to mobilize support on the issue. We would be honoured 
by  the  presence  and  participation  of  members  of  the 
Assembly in the discussions. I also call on the United 
Nations  to  integrate  that  issue  into  its  cooperation 
efforts with the African Union. In May in Marrakech, 
Morocco, in the presence of the African Development 
Bank, I proposed the creation of a trust fund aimed at 
strengthening  capacity-building  in  Africa  and  other 
efforts. 
Clearly,  sustainable  development  must  be  based 
on good governance, equality, access to justice and the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  democracy.  In  Gabon 
we  are  striving,  with  all  national  stakeholders,  to 
strengthen  those  areas.  We  are  collecting  biometrical 
data  in  order  to  enhance  election  transparency,  thus 
strengthening  democracy.  Furthermore,  our  election 
to  the  current  Human  Rights  Council  is  in  line  with 
our  commitments,  particularly  in  terms  of  promoting 
and  protecting  the  rights  of  women  and  children. 
During  this  twentieth  anniversary  year  of  the  Vienna 
Declaration,  Gabon  will  promote  economic,  social 
and cultural rights and seek to combat racism, hatred 
and  violence  throughout  the  world.  It  is  on  the  basis 
of  those  commitments  that  Gabon  will  present  itself 
as a candidate for the presidency of the Human Rights 
Council in 2014.
Africa is more hopeful for its future, but if that hope 
is to be realized throughout the continent Africa must 
be  able  to  resolve  crises  preventing  its  development. 
Allow me to list some crisis situations. 
First  of  all,  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Gabon  is  still  concerned  by  fighting  in  the 
eastern part of the country, where women and children 
are  paying  a  high  price.  We  welcome  the  increased 
efforts on the part of the United Nations to implement 
Security  Council  resolution  2098  (2013)  and  the 
commitments  made  by  the  parties  to  the  Framework 
Agreement signed in Addis Ababa. All countries in the 
Great Lakes region must support efforts by the United 
Nations.  We  would  also  encourage  the  efforts  on  the 
part of the Government to ensure that elections are held 
soon.
Gabon supports the transition in the Central African 
Republic, for which we have worked with members of 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States. 
We  hope  that  the  numerous  stakeholders  will  adhere 
strictly  to  the  transition  framework.  Nevertheless,  we 
are  still  concerned  by  the  humanitarian  and  security 
situation  in  the  country,  as  well  as  by  the  renewed 
activities on the part of the Lord’s Resistence Army. We 
welcome the establishment of the International Support 
Mission to the Central African Republic by the African 
Union, which will take over from the Mission for the 
Consolidation of Peace in the Central African Republic. 
Gabon calls for a contingency plan to be put in place for 
the new mission. I would like to thank France, which is 
supporting efforts on the part of the subregion to ensure 
that peace returns to the Central African Republic.
In Mali, at the height of the crisis, Gabon responded 
to  a  funding  appeal  by  the  African  Union,  which 
was  launched  to  support  its  efforts  in  that  country. 
We  commend  the  positive  political  change  that  has 
taken place in Mali, proof of which can be seen in the 
presidential elections and the decision by the people of 
18/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
Mali to elect President Keita. I would like to wish him 
all the best, and I call upon the international community 
to support the reconstruction of Mali. 
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  Gabon  welcomes 
efforts to bring about dialogue and negotiations by the 
Organization. My country would also like to reiterate 
that  it  supports  the  Moroccan  initiative  for  Western 
Sahara, which we believe is a courageous and realistic 
proposal, one that could lead to a lasting settlement. We 
call upon the different players to reach a constructive 
and  dynamic  compromise,  the  results  of  which  will 
benefit the unity of Africa. 
Africa  should  be  able  to  respond  to  new  threats 
to  peace  and  security,  including  transnational  crime, 
the  illicit  trafficking  in  small  arms,  and  piracy  in 
the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  which  the  Atlantic  coast  is  now 
experiencing. Following the Summit of Heads of State 
and Government on Maritime Safety and Security in the 
Gulf of Guinea, which was held in June in Yaounde, we 
adopted a strategy for combating those threats. Gabon 
is  ready  to  make  contributions  towards  the  measures 
that  were  adopted  at  the  Summit.  I  also  welcome 
efforts by the Security Council to address the problem, 
particularly through resolution 2018 (2011). 
Africa cannot face up to the challenges of peace and 
security alone. Its efforts must be given better support, 
because  instability  in  Africa  will  have  repurcussions 
in  other  regions.  I  thank  our  partners,  particularly 
France, Japan, Germany, the United States, the United 
Nations and the European Union, for their significant 
contributions towards such efforts.
In the face of those new threats, it is important for the 
United Nations to continue to enhance its cooperation 
with regional African organizations. Furthermore, we 
must  ensure  the  implementation  of  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty, which was the first legally binding instrument 
on the matter adopted by the General Assembly, in May.
In  a  world  stricken  by  tensions  and  crises,  we 
must  continue  to  work  towards  ensuring  that  the 
Organization  can  better  fulfil  its  mandate  in  the  area 
of  international  peace  and  security,  with  a  particular 
emphasis  on  conflict  prevention,  while  supporting 
peaceful  resolutions  to  emerging  crises.  The  crisis  in 
Syria  has  already  claimed  many  lives,  and  we  have 
seen an unacceptable escalation in the form of the use 
of  chemical  weapons.  We  strongly  condemn  the  use 
of  such  weapons,  and  Gabon  calls  for  the  destruction 
of  all  stockpiles  of  chemical  weapons  throughout  the 
world. With regard to the investigations being carried 
out by United Nations inspectors in Syria, we call upon 
all  parties  to  fully  cooperate.  Furthermore,  Gabon 
supports  all  diplomatic  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  a 
political  solution  that  will  allow  us  to  emerge  from 
that crisis. In the event that its efforts are blocked, the 
Security Council must take measures.
With regard to Palestine and the State of Israel, the 
possibility  of  resuming  talks  with  the  impetus  of  the 
United States must be welcomed. Gabon still supports 
the broadly accepted view of two viable States, Israel 
and Palestine, coexisting in mutual security and respect 
within recognized borders. 
With  regard  to  the  embargo  on  Cuba,  Gabon 
reiterates  its  position  in  favour  of  lifting  that  ban 
because of its negative impact on the well-being of the 
Cuban population.
It  is  our  obligation  to  transform  our  international 
institutions  in  order  to  make  them  more  equipped  to 
meet  current  challenges.  The  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  enhancing  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General Assembly and the reform of the Economic and 
Social Council are all to be wished. It is essential for 
our common future that we assume that responsibility, 
in the spirit of the Charter. Assuring such a future calls 
upon  our  shared  but  differentiated  responsibility  and 
forces  us  to  act  for  the  well-being  of  humankind.  On 
the basis of those convictions, Gabon will continue to 
be committed, within the Organization, to working for 
peace and development, which is also at the heart of the 
vision  that  I  have  proposed  for  the  future  of  my  own 
country, a future I wish for all countries.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly 
I wish to thank the President of the Gabonese Republic 
for the statement he has just made.
 Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Željko Komšić, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
Mr. Željko Komšić was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
13-48455
19/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
in  Bosnian;  English 
Mr.  Komšić  (spoke 
text 
provided by the delegation): First of all, I would like to 
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session, as well as members of your team, and to extend 
to you my full support in your future work. 
Plenary  meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  have 
always been an opportunity for Heads of State to gather 
and exchange their opinions about the world situation 
in order to try to find solutions for contemporary global 
problems.
My country’s strategic goal of establishing a formal 
relationship  with  and  membership  in  the  European 
Union (EU) is based upon its ambition to become part 
of  the  big  family  of  democratic  States  and  therefore 
assure the full functionality of its own institutions and 
its  further  development  on  the  basis  of  a  free  market 
and the rule of law, and especially human rights. Based 
on the direction and foreign policy activities of Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  our  focus  remains  on  furthering 
our relationship and institutional relationship with the 
European  Union,  according  to  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Agreement  and  its  full  implementation. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina’s  aspiration  to  become  a 
member  of  the  European  Union  is  based  upon  broad 
political census.
The  fact  that  the  process  of  European  integration 
demands  comprehensive  political,  institutional  and 
legal adjustments in order to reach European standards 
in all areas is of fundamental importance to my country. 
We  are  also  fully  aware  that  the  active  participation 
of all segments of society of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
is  necessary  to  expedite  the  process  of  European 
integration.  I  expect  that  expediting  the  remaining 
activities  and  the  implementation  of  the  Sejdić-Finci
ruling  of  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  will 
lead  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  requirements  for  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina’s  application  for  accession  to  the 
European Union.
I also hope for a positive development in the process 
of  fulfilling  the  conditions  for  activating  the  NATO 
membership action plan and further integrating Bosnia 
and Herzegovina into NATO security structures. I would 
also like to emphasize that Bosnia and Herzegovina is 
in the final phase of negotiations for accession to the 
World Trade Organization.
Allow  me  to  emphasize  again  that  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina has a very clear stance with regard to war 
crimes.  All  those  accused  of  war  crimes  will  be  held 
responsible  for  the  crimes  of  which  they  are  accused 
before either international or domestic courts.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  puts  great  emphasis  on 
regional  and  subregional  cooperation  and  dialogue 
among  neighbouring  countries,  whose  cultures 
and  traditions  have  been  present  in  the  Balkans  for 
centuries  and  who  are  currently  at  different  stages 
of  transition  and  democratic  reform.  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  is  turned  towards  the  future  and  to 
cooperation  with  neighbouring  countries  on  the  basis 
of  mutual  respect,  as  well  as  respect  for  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity.  The  development  of  bilateral 
relations  with  all  of  our  neighbouring  countries  and 
other countries in the region is focused on several key 
areas:  Euro-Atlantic  integration,  advancing  economic 
cooperation,  strengthening  regional  cooperation  and 
finding constructive solutions for current issues.
Our  emphasis  on  regional  cooperation  is  on  the 
development  of  communications  infrastructure  as  a 
basis for better economic, cultural and scientific ties, as 
well as overall regional development. The potential for 
regional economic ties is especially strong in the areas 
of industry, tourism, agriculture and energy.
I would like to especially emphasize our bilateral 
relations  with  the  Republic  of  Croatia,  which  gained 
a  new  dimension  and  dynamic  with  the  Croatian 
accession  to  the  EU,  which  was  marked  by  eagerness 
on both sides to find solutions that are in best interests 
of both our countries.
I  must  point  out  that  we  continue  to  live  during 
one  of  the  greatest  economic  and  financial  crises  in 
contemporary  history,  which  is  certainly  the  greatest 
threat  to  global  peace  and  security.  We  must  do 
everything  in  our  power  to  tackle  its  negative  effects 
and consequences. Although the latest indicators show 
that some developing countries are coming out of the 
recession,  that  is  not  the  case  in  poor  and  developing 
countries, where the consequences of the crisis are very 
harsh.
The  institutions  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  have 
been  strategically  working  towards  achievement  of 
20/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  believe  that, 
despite  the  difficulties  caused  by  the  world  economic 
situation, there will be no obstacles in reaching our stated 
targets by 2015. Bosnia and Herzegovina has finalized 
the development strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina 
and  the  social  inclusion  strategy  for  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, while the strategy for poverty eradication 
has already been designed and implemented. All of that 
has been done in cooperation with the relevant United 
Nations agencies in the country, whom we would like to 
thank for their close cooperation.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  ready  to  contribute  to 
global efforts to define a development framework and 
then to implement it in order to readily face economic, 
social  and  environmental  challenges.  Considering 
that the importance of the three aspects of sustainable 
development 
I  have  mentioned  crosses  national 
borders, Bosnia and Herzegovina believes that regional 
cooperation is crucial for the successful preparation of 
the new post-2015 development framework.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  as  well  as  all  the  other 
Western Balkan countries at this stage of integration, 
follows European Union policy and views with regard to 
the new development agenda. Bosnia and Herzegovina 
consistently  supports  the  position  that  sustainable 
development is possible only in harmony with nature. 
I  am  of  the  opinion  that  economic  and  political 
interests  must  not  be  an  obstacle  to  achieving  global 
consensus on a true beginning of the global fight for the 
preservation of the natural balance of planet Earth. It is 
often forgotten that climate change has a direct impact 
on development, poverty and hunger, and consequently 
on global peace and security. Short-term solutions will 
have  long-term  consequences,  and  the  steps  we  take 
today will be our legacy for generations to come.
All of us present here agree that the United Nations 
needs  continuous  and  comprehensive  reform,  which 
should  be  conducted  with  great  caution,  assuring  a 
wide  consensus  of  Member  States.  United  Nations 
reform  should  provide  for  efficient  and  coordinated 
functioning of all segments and bodies of the system. 
It is a widely held belief that Security Council reform 
is  crucial  for  core  reform  of  the  world  Organization. 
That  reform,  carried  out  with  the  consensus  of  the 
Member States, is necessary for reasons of efficiency 
and credibility, and it can be achieved only by taking 
into  account  the  contemporary  geopolitical  reality, 
which  differs  from  that  of  1945.  Only  a  Security 
Council  reformed  in  that  way  can  have  full  authority 
and  responsibility  in  addressing  the  most  important 
issues of international peace and security. That is the 
mandate entrusted to the Council by the Charter of the 
United Nations.
the  opinion 
Dialogue  and  compromise  are  the  best  way  to 
ensure  the  widest  possible  support,  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  supports 
that  Security 
Council  reform  should  be  moved  from  a  standstill 
as  soon  as  possible.  We  also  believe  that  a  reformed 
Security  Council  should  have  an  additional  seat  for  a 
State from the Eastern European Group, as the number 
of countries in that group has more than doubled in the 
past two decades.
In accordance with that position, I would also like 
to  emphasize  that  more  engagement  in  preventative 
diplomacy is expected from the Security Council. We 
believe  that  more  activity  in  the  area  of  preventive 
diplomacy would help solve many problems and crises 
before they intensify, which would be a more efficient 
way  for  the  Council  to  work.  Encouraging  dialogue 
to resolve critical issues by compromise, while acting 
against  any  kind  of  exclusiveness,  especially  in  the 
area of human rights and human life, is of the utmost 
importance.  Timely  and  efficient  conflict  prevention, 
rather than reaction to a crisis that has already escalated, 
is definitely a more effective and less costly approach 
to international peace and security. 
We are eager to share with others the positive and 
the  negative  of  our  post-conflict  and  peacebuilding 
experience.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  believes  that 
every  crisis  should  be  studied  carefully,  with  careful 
consideration  for  the  roots  of  conflict,  the  culture, 
religion  and  local  customs  and  every  other  factor  in 
order to find a just and long-term solution. There are no 
universal solutions for any crisis, and each one should 
be attended to and considered separately.
Bosnia and Herzegovina believes that it is necessary 
to take concrete steps to prevent nuclear proliferation 
around  the  world.  In  spite  of  visible  obstacles  of  the 
past  decade,  there  are  new  initiatives  giving  new 
momentum  to  the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
process.  We  believe  that  nuclear  disarmament  can  be 
achieved by encouraging Member States parties to the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to 
respect their obligations under the Treaty. 
Bosnia and Herzegovina will sign the Arms Trade 
Treaty during the Treaty event.
13-48455
21/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
Bosnia and Herzegovina is gravely concerned about 
the continuing violence in Syria, which has worsened the 
humanitarian crisis and caused unacceptable suffering 
for  the  Syrian  people.  We  call  on  all  the  parties  to 
comply  with  their  obligations  under  international  law 
and human rights law. 
Resolving  the  crisis  in  the  Middle  East  continues 
to be one of the most important priorities of the world 
Organization. We believe that all possible steps should 
be taken to create a positive climate in order to achieve 
a just and comprehensive peace in the region. We expect 
all sides to refrain from any rash actions and to focus on 
launching this very important dialogue.
In order to play a constructive role in international 
relations  and  to  contribute  to  self-sustainable  peace 
and  stability,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  participates  in 
the International Security Assistance Force mission in 
Afghanistan. In support of international efforts, we also 
actively participated in the United Nations missions in 
Liberia, South Sudan and Cyprus. 
I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  that  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  remains  very  concerned  that  terrorist 
attacks  around  the  world  continue  to  take  the  lives 
of  innocent  victims.  We  are  committed  to  fighting 
terrorism and believe that results in that regard can be 
achieved only through comprehensive cooperation and 
a partnership of as many Member States as possible.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  also  following  the 
situation on the African continent with great interest. 
We expect that despite the world financial and economic 
crisis,  most  developed  countries  will  continue  to 
increase their contributions to the official development 
assistence that is essential for capacity-building in poor 
African countries. Therefore, we welcome the activities 
of  the  United  Nations  through  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  and  other  efforts  aimed  at 
putting  Africa  on  the  road  to  stable  and  sustainable 
development,  especially  with  regard  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  particularly 
applies to the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. 
We  also  support  all  efforts  of  the  African  Union, 
African Governments and the United Nations to improve 
the rule of law and democracy and to strengthen civil 
society  and  its  institutions,  in  order  to  improve  all 
aspects of society. We wish to point out that continued 
and greater financial aid to Africa is just as important 
as improving the efficiency and transparency of the use 
of aid funds for sustainable development.
In today’s world, with political and social processes 
more  dynamic  than  ever,  we  face  challenges  quite 
different  from  those  of  only  a  few  decades  ago.  It  is 
becoming clear that only a strong multilateral approach 
can produce good solutions. In its more than six decades 
of existence, the United Nations has seen many trials 
and tribulations, but it has always been, and continues 
to  be,  the  only  guide  to  a  better  future.  It  is  still  the 
only organization capable of providing solutions to the 
global problems we face. 
It is up to us to make it stronger and more efficient, 
for only the United Nations — the most comprehensive 
and inclusive organization — can help bring progress 
and  well-being  to  our  planet.  If  we  work  together  to 
implement all our agreements reached in this hallowed 
place, there is no doubt that we will live in better and 
more  just  conditions  than  exist  today.  On  that  path, 
we  need  to  return  to  the  basic  values  and  principles 
of human rights, equality and world peace that are the 
foundation of the United Nations.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Željko Komšić, Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by General Michel Sleiman, President of 
the Lebanese Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Lebanese Republic.
General Michel Sleiman, President of the Lebanese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  General  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the 
Lebanese  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Sleiman (spoke in Arabic): I would first 
like to warmly congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its current session, and to express my full appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, who has closely followed developments in the 
situation in Lebanon. 
22/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
I  particularly  wish  to  point  out  the  presidential 
statement  issued  by  the  Security  Council  on  10  July 
(S/PRST/2013/9),  which  provides  an  effective  road 
map  for  what  the  international  community  can  do  to 
help Lebanon in order to preserve its stability, promote 
its  institutions,  support  its  economy  and  army  and  to 
help it face the growing burden created by the refugees 
entering from Syria. That is definitely the core objective 
of the meeting of the International Support Group for 
Lebanon, which will be launched tomorrow afternoon, 
25 September.
Many  countries  represented  here  have  witnessed 
uprisings,  civil  wars  or  foreign  aggression.  Lebanon, 
too,  has  experienced  many  wars,  which  have  led  to 
influxes of numerous refugees in our territory. Against 
all  odds,  the  Lebanese  have  sought  to  assume  the 
responsibility  for  restoring  the  glory  of  our  country 
as a space for freedom and coexistence and to hallow 
their presence in the East within the confines of a State 
that embraced democracy from its very inception while 
ensuring  respect  for  diversity  within  unity  as  well  as 
personal and public freedoms. 
Through  dialogue,  the  Lebanese  will  continue 
to  develop  their  political  system  and  improve  their 
democratic  practices.  They  will  have 
to  remain 
committed to the Baabda Declaration, which advocates 
Lebanon distancing itself from regional crises and axis 
politics.  It  is  equally  essential  to  reach  an  agreement 
on a national strategy to ensure the exclusive defence 
of Lebanon in the face of Israel’s hostility and ongoing 
threats. 
strong 
Nevertheless,  however 
the  Lebanese 
commitment  may  be,  we  still  require  the  care  and 
support  of  brotherly  and  friendly  countries  in  order 
to address the repercussions of external conflicts and 
crises that threaten our security and stability and have 
negative impacts on our socioeconomic situation. The 
Lebanese  look  to  assistance  not  only  in  the  name  of 
brotherly solidarity and the shared responsibility of the 
international community as a whole, but also in the face 
of events that pose a threat to regional and international 
security. 
The  first  challenge  is  rooted  in  the  repercussions 
of 
the  Syrian  crisis  on  Lebanon’s  security  and 
economy.  An  existential  challenge  has  arisen,  related 
to the growing number of Syrian refugees on Lebanese 
territory,  which  is  far  beyond  Lebanon’s  capacity  to 
assimilate  them.  The  number  of  refugees  has  already 
exceeded  one  quarter  of  the  Lebanese  population.  As 
the Assembly knows, Lebanon is a country of limited 
geographical  area  and  resources,  as  well  as  sensitive 
balances. 
Therefore, while we understand that it is not possible 
to  impose  the  impossible  on  nations,  it  is  important 
for  me  to  reiterate  my  call  on  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  to  provide  sufficient  human  and 
financial  resources  to  manage  the  presence  of  Syrian 
refugees  in  Lebanon  and  meet  their  humanitarian 
and  essential  needs,  bearing  in  mind  that  the  pledges 
undertaken at the meeting of donor States hosted by the 
State of Kuwait on 30 January have only been partially 
fulfilled; to expand infrastructure and reception areas 
for Syrian refugees within Syrian territories themselves 
and organize an international conference on the issue 
of Syrian refugees, with the aim of sharing the burden 
among  different  countries  in  accordance  with  the 
principle  of  shared  responsibility  while  also  assisting 
the  International  Support  Group  for  Lebanon;  and  to 
garner support from all concerned States for the work 
of  the  International  Support  Group.  Of  course,  all  of 
that must take place while we work towards finding a 
political solution for the Syrian crisis that will preserve 
the unity of Syria. 
Lebanon has called attention to the need to bring 
to justice the perpetrators of the crimes that have been 
committed. Solutions must be found to ensure that the 
conflict  does  not  spread  to  neighbouring  countries. 
Today, we have an opportunity to condemn all terrorist 
attacks perpetrated anywhere in the world, particularly 
in the Middle East. 
I  would  like  to  comment  on  the  attack  that  took 
place upon the historic town of Maaloula. That attack 
represents  an  assault  on  civilization  and  the  tolerant 
spirit  of  religions.  That  is  why  the  international 
community must adopt a firm stance in order to protect 
such  sites,  in  particular  through  the  adoption  of  an 
investigative mechanism that will assess the reality of 
the situation on the ground. 
We  must  work  to  encourage  the  countries  of  the 
region currently engaged in conflict to ensure that the 
logic of dialogue and negotiation prevails and to keep 
Lebanon from getting involved in the Syrian conflict, 
while  encouraging  those  countries  to  contribute  the 
necessary  assistance  and  support  for  the  Baabda 
Declaration,  just  as  the  Security  Council  has  pledged 
its support. 
13-48455
23/25
A/68/PV.6 
24/09/2013
However, the main challenge that we face remains 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  and  Israeli  settlement  policy 
practices, not to overlook the difficulties created by it 
in  terms  of  refugee  flows.  The  settlement  policy  has 
fostered a sense of frustration and a tendency towards 
extremism.  Lebanon  has  been  affected  by  the  daily 
Israeli  attacks  against  Lebanon  and  its  infrastructure 
through  the  use  of  all  sorts  of  prohibited  weapons. 
Lebanon  has  paid  a  high  price  for  those  acts  of 
aggression, with all that implies in terms of the burden 
on human lives and destruction. It therefore falls upon 
the international community to work to find a fair and 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle 
East, particularly with respect to the Palestinian cause, 
pursuant  to  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Madrid 
Conference  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  Stability, 
democracy  and  moderation  will  not  prevail  in  the 
Middle East unless justice is done in Palestine, based 
on the belief that the security of the Arab region and 
the preservation of its cultural diversity are of strategic 
importance. 
Lebanon  calls  for  the  adoption  of  an  integrated 
comprehensive approach that includes the participation 
of all States concerned and addresses all aspects of the 
Israeli-Arab  conflict.  At  the  same  time,  no  solution 
should be taken at the expense of its superior interests. 
As  a  result,  Lebanon  will  reject  any  compromise 
attempting  to  force  an  influx  of  Palestinian  refugees 
on its territory.
In  this  transitional  period  where  the  Arab  world 
is  undergoing  major  historic  upheaval  and  deep-
wrought changes, the world as a whole is witnessing an 
fundamentl structural transformation due to the amazing 
scientific progress that has been achieved, in particular 
in the fields of communication and information. That 
progress will contribute to globalization in all aspects of 
life. We must therefore convey a spirit of pluralism and 
diversity within all societies as a necessary condition in 
order to match the accelerating pace of change. 
However, the regimes that run the affairs of peoples 
and  societies  have  unfortunately  not  undergone  a 
corresponding evolution at the intellectual level. On the 
contrary,  we  have  witnessed  conflicts  exacerbated  by 
extremist terrorism continue to spring forth fuelled by 
isolationism  that  rejects  dialogue,  mutual  recognition 
and  coexistence.  That  has  even  led  some  to  call  for 
the return to religious emirates and racial segregation. 
In  order  to  do  so,  those  groups  have  applied  violent 
methods that flout peace and public freedoms. 
Amid  those  unilateral  fundamentalist  tendencies, 
Lebanon remains a laboratory and a model of necessary 
coexistence for the future. That model must be allowed 
to benefit from support and stability because, as it has 
for decades, it has led to the education of students in our 
schools and universities and caused the security forces 
to fulfil their national missions in military camps in a 
spirit of unity. It is a model that is also experienced by 
the citizens on a daily basis on the streets of our cities, 
towns and in our capital, in the theatres, clubs, at the 
movies,  in  public  and  private  institutions  and  in  civil 
society  organizations.  The  model,  which  has  become 
a lifestyle, is lived with the sound of the church bells 
and  the  voices  of  the  mosques’  muezzins  ringing  in 
our  ears,  in  particular  at  joint  celebrations,  the  most 
significant of which is the Common Religious National 
Day,  celebrated  on  the  day  of  the  Annunciation  on 
25 March of every year, when everyone is urged to seek 
the common good. 
The  management  of  diversity  and  the  building  of 
a  culture  of  justice,  peace  and  coexistence  between 
cultures, civilizations and religions requires that we all 
make efforts at the following three levels.
First,  we  must  work  to  improve  the  political, 
financial  and  social  systems  that  govern  the  affairs 
of  peoples  worldwide,  in  particular  the  democratic 
system, to make them more humane and better suited 
to diversity. This must be done in such a way so as to 
guarantee the involvement of all components of society, 
in  particular  minorities,  in  political  life  and  in  the 
management  of  public  affairs  in  all  States,  regardless 
of  what  ratio  of  the  population  such  minorities  may 
represent, but, rather, on the basis of their capacity and 
heritage.
Secondly, we must consider the preservation of an 
active  presence  on  the  part  of  minorities  worldwide, 
with  all  the  civilizations  and  specific  characteristics 
that they represent, to be an international responsibility, 
especially in the Middle East. The Middle East is the 
cradle  of  the  monotheistic  religions,  whose  peoples 
have  coexisted  for  centuries,  forged  civilizations 
and  enriched  the  history  of  humankind  through  their 
culture  and  the  values  of  tolerance,  goodwill  and 
friendship. That shared responsibility cannot be based 
on international interests in that part of the world while 
ignoring the communities living there. Rather, it should 
take into account the interests of all of those minorities 
and their right to participate in all aspects of the life of 
their nation, as they are an integral part of its fabric.
24/25 
13-48455
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.6
Thirdly, there is a need to intensify ongoing efforts 
aimed at reforming and developing the United Nations 
and  its  specialized  agencies,  so  as  to  bring  them  into 
line with current realities and restore confidence in their 
capacity to resolve international issues, counter crime 
and  adopt  the  appropriate  resolutions  and  implement 
them  without  obstruction,  free  from  selectivity  and 
the  policy  of  double  standards.  That  would  be  an 
alternative to the logic of legitimate force that may be 
used by peoples whose countries have fallen victim to 
aggression and occupation, in the absence of a capable, 
guaranteed international mechanism.
For  its  part,  Lebanon  will  remain  faithful  to 
the  message  of  freedom  and  coexistence  that  are  its 
hallmark, reiterating its commitment to implementing 
all decisions of international legitimacy and to upholding 
the  spirit  of  moderation  and  agreement  upon  which 
Lebanon  was  founded.  It  will  also  remain  an  active 
partner in the context of the promotion of a culture of 
justice, peace and sustainable human development.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Lebanese Republic 
for the statement he has just made.
General Michel Sleiman, President of the Lebanese 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
13-48455
25/25
