United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
36th plenary meeting
Friday, 25 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.36
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Mesquita 
Borges  (Timor-Leste),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 63 and 13
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and  
international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and  
international support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/222)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/220)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The  Acting  President:  I  now  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  John 
Ashe.
“I  am  pleased  to  welcome  members  to  these 
important  debates,  in  particular  that  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD), 
since  it  provides  us  with  a  timely  opportunity 
to  review  our  collective  efforts  in  providing 
international  support  for  NEPAD  and 
is  an 
appropriate  way  to  culminate  this  year’s  Africa-
NEPAD week.
“In many ways, it is an auspicious time for the 
African continent and it is fitting to begin by taking 
note  of  some  of  the  positive  developments  on  the 
continent. Experts now agree that Africa offers the 
most promising prospects for economic growth in 
the world, with sub-Saharan Africa as the second-
fastest-growing region. Throughout the continent, 
we  have  seen  significant  progress  in  political 
governance,  with  a  number  of  elections  offering 
promise  for  future  stability.  Many  countries  can 
also  take  pride  in  recent  developments  in  peace 
and security, and we look to those examples with 
the  hope  that  the  nations  that  are  still  struggling 
will soon follow. While we cannot deny that there 
are  challenges  confronting  the  African  continent, 
the African people and African leaders are poised 
to  face  them  as  never  before  as  they  continue  to 
harness  their  productive  powers  and  grow  in 
solidarity.
“Today,  as  we  assess  international  support 
for  NEPAD,  we  can  also  acknowledge  Africa’s 
collaborative efforts to tackle its shared challenges. 
NEPAD, first launched in 2001, is a success story. 
Through 
the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU)  —  now  the  African  Union  (AU)  —  the 
African region has found a mechanism to facilitate 
a  cohesive  approach 
its  challenges  and 
opportunities. It has chosen that type of strategic 
and progressive coordination as an effective means 
to realize goals in the areas of peace and security 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-53026 (E)
*1353026*
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
and  socioeconomic  development.  As  2013  marks 
the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the 
OAU, I warmly congratulate the people of Africa 
on this important milestone.
“NEPAD  remains  a  strong  framework  for 
pan-African  socioeconomic  development  and  the 
essential  blueprint  for  promoting  development  on 
the African continent. The latest report of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  the  implementation  of 
and  international  support  for  NEPAD  (A/68/222) 
suggests notable progress. I commend those positive 
developments  and  Africa’s  commitments  in  the 
areas  of  infrastructural  projects,  agriculture  and 
food  security,  health  and  primary  education  and, 
last  but  not  least,  redoubling  efforts  to  achieving 
the  remaining  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) by 2015.
“The  continent  can  also  be  justly  proud  of 
the  establishment  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism 
(APRM),  which  has  become  a 
key  component  of  NEPAD  and  marks  its  tenth 
anniversary  this  year.  Through  the  Mechanism, 
African  countries  have  committed  themselves 
to  the  promotion  of  good  governance  in  all  its 
dimensions  —  corporate,  political  and  economic. 
With over 30 African countries voluntarily joining 
the APRM, the continent is clearly demonstrating 
its commitment to good governance, transparency 
and  democratic  principles.  As  we  celebrate  that 
important milestone, I would like to encourage the 
countries of the region to keep up the momentum 
and consolidate gains achieved through the APRM. 
That  review  process  is  vital  for  promoting  good 
governance practices among peers.
“Because  NEPAD  is  so  critically  important 
for  pan-African  socioeconomic  development,  it  is 
vital  that  the  international  community  continue 
partnering with African countries and the AU on its 
implementation  and  on  alleviating  developmental 
challenges  on  the  continent.  That  support  cannot 
be overstated and is integral to the overall success 
of  the  programme.  While  many  countries  have 
been  affected  by  the  recent  global  financial  and 
economic downturn, international partners should 
continue to work with African countries to ensure 
that  NEPAD  commitments  are  translated  into 
concrete results on the ground.
“The  United  Nations 
integral  and 
committed  partner  to  NEPAD  in  realizing  its 
is  an 
objectives.  I  would  like  to  commend  the  ongoing 
efforts of the United Nations, in particular the Office 
of the Special Adviser on Africa, in supporting the 
full implementation of the programme. As President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, 
I  pledge  to  continue  to  promote  a  good  working 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and 
African  Member  States,  as  well  as  international 
partners,  to  ensure  that  NEPAD  remains  a  high 
priority on the agenda of the Assembly.
“I  also  hope  that  several  thematic  debates 
and  General  Assembly-mandated  meetings  will 
contribute immensely to support for NEPAD — for 
example, the meetings on the contributions of South-
South and triangular cooperation and information 
and  communication  technology  for  development 
to  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  the 
high-level  thematic  debate  on  the  promotion  of 
investment  in  Africa  and  its  catalytic  role  in 
achieving Africa’s development.
“My remarks began with a focus on the great 
achievements,  and  I  conclude  with  a  reminder  of 
the  challenges  that  remain.  It  is  widely  reported 
that  many  countries  are  unlikely 
to  achieve 
most  of  the  MDGs  by  the  2015  deadline.  In 
the  remaining  time  before  the  2015  target  date, 
we  need  to  accelerate  efforts  and  summon  the 
necessary  political  will.  And  as  we  set  the  stage 
for the post-2015 development agenda, the General 
Assembly  will  need  to  focus  on  how  that  agenda 
relates  to  Africa.  Africa’s  development  priorities, 
as clearly embedded in NEPAD, must be skilfully 
incorporated into the new development agenda.
“It is my sincere hope that today’s debate will 
be a strong demonstration of solidarity and support. 
As we are one united international community, let 
us  continue  to  chart  a  practical  way  forward  on 
successfully  implementing  NEPAD  and  creating 
meaningful change for people across the continent.”
Ms. Kaur (India): Let me, first of all congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session. We wish him every success and assure him of 
our fullest cooperation.
I am honoured to address today’s joint debate on the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and the promotion of peace and development in Africa, 
including  in  its  efforts  to  fight  malaria.  Allow  me  to 
2/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
also convey our sincerest appreciation to the Secretary-
General  for  his  timely  and  extremely  informative 
reports  on  the  agenda  items  under  discussion  today 
(A/68/220 and A/68/222).
Epitomizing the spirit of pan-Africanism, the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  with  its  strong 
emphasis on infrastructure, agriculture and governance, 
is indeed firmly on course in realizing the vision of an 
integrated, prosperous and peaceful African continent.
India  lauds  the  progress  achieved  by  Africa  in 
the implementation of NEPAD priorities over the past 
10 years through multisectoral initiatives in agriculture, 
infrastructure, health, education, science, information 
technology  and  the  environment.  However,  despite 
those positive strides, serious challenges remain to be 
addressed before the African continent can achieve all-
round  development  and  prosperity.  Extreme  poverty, 
hunger, a lack of adequate nutrition, conflicts and other 
ills continue to shackle the tremendous potential of the 
African people. It is therefore important to acknowledge 
that  addressing  Africa’s  development  needs  and 
challenges requires an unwavering commitment backed 
by  resolute  action,  not  only  from  within  Africa  but, 
equally important, from outside the continent.
As has been pointed outin the Secretary-General’s 
report (A/68/222), total official development assistance 
to  Africa  has  further  declined,  from  $133.7  billion 
in  2011  to  $125.9  billion  in  2012.  The  report  also 
points  out  that,  despite  a  strong  average  growth  of 
6.6  per  cent  in  2012,  it  has  not  been  inclusive  or 
sustainable. Persistently high unemployment threatens 
to  undermine  the  recent  gains  made  towards  social 
development  and  to  derail  the  progress  made  towards 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). It is therefore imperative that the international 
community  remain  resolute  in  its  support  for  Africa 
through  sustained  cooperation,  including  the  transfer 
of technology, resources and an enabling international 
environment,  and  immediately  address  the  gaping 
gap  between  the  promise  and  delivery  of  pledged 
commitments.  In  these  times  of  political  uncertainty 
and economic meltdown, it is more crucial than ever for 
the continent’s development partners to stay the course 
and help African countries achieve their developmental 
goals.
of the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, and our 
ties  continue  to  be  rooted  in  our  history  of  solidarity 
against  colonialism  and  apartheid.  Our  engagement 
with Africa has come a long way since then and today 
we have built a new template for partnership in the form 
of the India-Africa Forum Summit. That partnership is 
based on mutual respect and guided by the vision and 
priorities of our African brothers and sisters.
India  and  Africa  are  committed  to  pursue  the 
ideals  of  democratic  governance  in  multicultural  and 
multilingual societies and inclusive development for the 
benefit  of  their  peoples.  India  and  the  African  Union 
launched a Plan of Action of the Enhanced Framework 
for  Cooperation  on  6  September  in  New  Delhi.  India 
is  committed  to  assisting  Africa,  including  in  human 
resources and institutional capacity-building, education, 
science  and  technology,  agricultural  productivity  and 
food  security,  industrial  growth,  including  small  and 
medium  enterprises,  the  health  sector,  infrastructure 
and information and communication technology. Those 
activities are being implemented directly with Member 
States  in  close  consultation  with  regional  economic 
communities, the African Union Commission and the 
NEPAD Agency. India is also extending concessionary 
financing  to  develop  socioeconomic  infrastructure. 
Over  the  past  decade,  170  lines  of  credit  totalling 
$9.7 billion have been allocated, of which $5.8 billion 
was allocated for African countries.
There  has  been  a  spectacular  increase  in  India-
Africa  trade  over  the  past  two  decades.  India-Africa 
trade has grown from a small $967 million in 1991 to 
more than $70 billion in 2012. A target of $90 billion 
has  been  set  for  2015.  There  is  significant  scope  to 
enhance and diversify it with coordinated and sustained 
efforts. India also actively supports African initiatives 
for peace and security on the continent. In the pursuit 
of  that  commitment,  more  than  6,500  Indian  soldiers 
support  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in 
various parts of Africa.
experiences.  We 
There  is  a  lot  we  can  learn  from  each  other’s 
development 
redirected 
our  age-old  bonds  of  friendship  to  respond  to  the 
contemporary  aspirations  of  our  peoples  and  to  build 
a  partnership  that  is  increasingly  being  cited  as  the 
beacon of South-South cooperation.
have 
The  India-Africa  partnership  is  based  on  firm 
historical foundations. Over the decades, it has grown 
into one of the most productive and durable partnerships. 
For the people of India, Africa is the land of awakening 
The  India,  Brazil  and  South  Africa  facility 
for  poverty  and  hunger  alleviation,  which  recently 
celebrated  a  special  event  here  in  New  York  on  the 
occasion  of  the  United  Nations  International  Day  for 
13-53026
3/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
South-South Cooperation, on 12 September, has already 
completed several successful projects in Burundi, Cape 
Verde,  Guinea-Bissau  and  Sierra  Leone  to  strengthen 
infrastructure and capacity-building.
Our  partnership  with  Africa  has  the  potential 
to  strengthen  global  governance  systems  and  to 
democratize  multilateral  institutions.  It  is  indeed 
ironic, and a continued question as to the credibility of 
its  representative  character,  that  the  Security  Council 
does  not  represent  the  entire  continent  of  Africa  in 
its  permanent  membership  category,  despite  nearly 
75 per cent of its work being focused on Africa alone. 
Along with our African friends, we continue to stress 
the urgent need to reform the Security Council and to 
address historical injustices, by making that a reflection 
of contemporary realities.
The  year  2015,  which  marks 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  and  10  years  since 
the 2005 World Summit mandate by our Heads of States 
and  Governments  to  achieve  early  reforms,  would  be 
a fitting occasion to deliver concrete outcomes on our 
pledged  commitment  to  reform  global  governance 
institutions.
thank 
Mr. Talbot  (Guyana):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  in  today’s  joint  debate  on 
the items “New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international support” 
and  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”.  Our 
delegations 
the  Secretary-General  for  his 
insightful  reports  (A/68/220  and  A/68/222),  which 
amply  inform  our  consideration  of  the  issues  under 
those agenda items. We also appreciate the role of the 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, in conjunction 
with the Department of Public Information, the United 
Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and  other 
relevant  agencies, 
the  Africa-New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  week,  which 
provides useful background to our deliberations today.
The  current  debate  takes  place  on  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  Organization 
of African Unity (OAU), now the African Union. That 
seminal African institution was established on 25 May 
1963  by  visionary  founders  who  foresaw  a  united 
continent  assuming  full  responsibility  for  its  future, 
in  partnership  with  the  international  community.  In 
this  year  of  pan-Africanism  and  African  renaissance, 
CARICOM is pleased to renew its solidarity with Africa 
in  organizing 
and its support for the attainment of durable peace and 
sustainable development on the continent.
The founding of the OAU preceded by a decade the 
establishment  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  in  1973. 
Not  long  after  that,  the  1975  Georgetown  Agreement 
united  our  two  regions,  along  with  countries  of  the 
Pacific, in the Africa-Caribbean-Pacific (ACP) group, 
a  cross-continental  alliance  committed  to  South-
South  cooperation  and  to  a  partnership  with  Europe 
for  development.  Our  two  regions,  the  Caribbean  and 
Africa,  have  been  animated  by  a  common  aspiration 
to  chart  a  course  of  our  own  design  informed  by  the 
wisdom  of  our  respective  experiences  while  learning 
from  one  another  and  the  experiences  of  others. 
Therefore, it comes as no surprise that CARICOM has 
welcomed  and  continues  to  support  the  African-led 
and  -owned  approach  to  growth  and  socioeconomic 
development  that  the  New  Partnership  represents. 
Through  it,  Africans  can  chart  their  own  course  to 
higher  standards  of  life  in  larger  freedom,  surmount 
the ravages of conflict and poverty and fulfil the rich 
promise of their potential. The progress that has been 
made thus far illustrates the effectiveness and relevance 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) as a development model for Africa.
Africa  has  witnessed  major  development  gains, 
even  as  it  continues  to  grapple  with  significant 
challenges  to  peace  and  development.  Seven  of  the 
10  fastest-growing  economies  across  the  globe  are 
based on the continent. Today, Africa as a whole is the 
world’s  second-fastest-growing  region.  Moreover,  a 
growing  middle  class  —  currently  34  per  cent  of  the 
population — is projected to reach 1 billion people by 
2060. The World Bank’s Africa Overview 2013 notes that 
the region’s poverty rate fell from 58.1 per cent in 1999 
to  47.5  per  cent  in  2008,  and  growth  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa is projected to rise from 5.3 per cent in 2012, to 
5.6 per cent in 2013. Various assessments indicate that 
Africa is on its way to achieving some of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015, notably MDG 2, 
regarding  universal  primary  education;  MDG  3,  with 
regard to gender parity in school enrolment; and MDG 
6, on reducing the prevalence of HIV/AIDS.
Despite 
those  achievements,  major  challenges 
remain. The rate of poverty reduction in Africa is not 
enough to reach the target of halving extreme poverty 
by 2015. The continent therefore continues to run the 
greatest  risk  in  the  entire  developing  world  of  falling 
short of achieving the MDGs. Also, with about 65 per 
4/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
cent  of  Africans  today  below  the  age  of  35,  and  over 
35  per  cent  between  the  ages  of  15  and  35  and  with 
youth  unemployment  accounting  for  60  per  cent  of 
continental unemployment, Africa’s Governments will 
no doubt face increasingly pressing demands from their 
young population for decent jobs and better standards 
of  living.  Support  for  major  continental  undertakings 
such as those in agriculture, infrastructure, health and 
governance will therefore be crucial to Africa’s future.
The  burden  of  disease  poses  a  continuing 
impediment  to  Africa’s  progress.  Even  in  the  wake 
of  the  2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa,  nearly 
half  of  the  world’s  population  remains  at  risk  of 
malaria, and an estimated 219 million cases in 2010 led 
to approximately 660,000 deaths, most of them children 
under the age of 5 living in Africa.
The World Malaria Report 2012, issued in December, 
makes a compelling case that international funding for 
malaria appears to have reached a plateau well below 
the level required to meet the health-related Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
malaria targets. CARICOM urges renewed international 
commitment  to  support  Africa  and  other  affected 
regions against that preventable disease.
Given those realities, the international community’s 
partnership with Africa will remain of great importance 
not only to Africa but to the world. Commitments made 
to Africa with respect to official development assistance, 
trade, the transfer of technology and capacity-building 
must therefore be honoured and sustained. The role of 
South-South  and  triangular  cooperation  will  remain 
integral to the global response to Africa’s development 
challenges  as  a  complement  to  the  commitment  of 
traditional development partners.
CARICOM  supports  Africa’s  quest  to  improve 
governance  and  accountability,  reflecting  our  shared 
commitments in that regard. The role of the African Peer 
Review Mechanism, now in its tenth anniversary year, 
has been instrumental in that process. In that context, 
we note that 33 countries have voluntarily acceded to 
the Mechanism and, of those, 17 have completed their 
self-assessments  and  have  been  peer-reviewed  by  the 
Forum of Heads of State and Government.
We  express  the  hope  that  the  stability  being 
experienced  by  most  African  countries  will  be 
sustained and that setbacks to peace and security will 
be  overcome,  in  the  interests  of  the  countries  and 
peoples  concerned.  CARICOM  therefore  supports 
United  Nations  and  African  Union  (AU)  efforts  in 
conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding, 
which  are  critical  to  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development. We also support Africa’s 
aspiration  to  have  a  permanent  and  non-permanent 
presence on the Security Council.
Turning  to  the  bilateral  relationship  between  our 
two regions, I am pleased to report that the Caribbean’s 
age-old  relations  with  Africa  are  being  consolidated 
in  modern  times  through  strengthened  diplomatic 
engagements,  increased  people-to-people  ties  and  the 
pursuit  of  economic  and  technical  cooperation  for 
mutual benefit. The ACP group endures as an important 
mechanism for collaboration and in our relations with 
the European Union. A key emphasis of current efforts 
is on the structural transformation of ACP economies 
to  ensure  that  a  significant  proportion  of  the  wealth 
generated  from  our  natural  recourses,  especially 
minerals and agricultural commodities, remain within 
our countries for their sustainable development.
CARICOM and the AU continue to partner in the 
AU diaspora process, which constitutes an ongoing link 
among member States of our two regions. At the United 
Nations, CARICOM and Africa have engaged together 
and  with  other  partners  in  undertaking  to  erect  in  a 
place  of  prominence  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
a  permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of  slavery  and 
the transatlantic slave trade. We reached an important 
milestone  in  that  endeavour  with  the  unveiling,  last 
September,  of  the  winning  design  for  the  memorial. 
We will continue to work with all partners to see that 
project through to a successful conclusion.
CARICOM  and  Africa  will  have  much  on  which 
to  collaborate  in  the  development  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
In conclusion, the Caribbean Community takes this 
opportunity to express its confidence in the prospects 
for  Africa’s  continued  progress.  Africa’s  renaissance 
heralds the promise of a brighter day not only for the 
people of that great continent, but also for the people of 
the world at large. We therefore renew our commitment 
to partnership in the cause of mutual success.
Dato  Ismail  (Brunei  Darussalam):  I  have  the 
honour to address the General Assembly this morning 
on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN),  which  comprises  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
13-53026
5/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam.
the  Philippines, 
I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
comprehensive reports (A/68/220 and A/68/222).
ASEAN attaches great importance to its friendship 
and  cooperation  with  Africa,  and  we  share  the  same 
aspirations for the development of our regions. Relations 
between the countries of our two regions have also been 
enhanced  through  solidarity,  cooperation  and  mutual 
respect.
We  acknowledge  the  good  progress  that  many 
African  countries  have  made 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  also 
acknowledge the challenges faced by African countries, 
and  we  understand  their  difficulties  in  attaining  the 
MDGs by 2015.
in  achieving 
that  regard,  ASEAN  continues 
We note that the efforts of African countries have 
been  slowed  by  economic  crises,  political  upheavals, 
natural  disasters  and  the  decline  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  In 
to 
encourage  efforts  through  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  to  address  those 
concerns, especially by prioritizing and mainstreaming 
the  issues  of  health,  education  and  gender  in  the 
agenda.  Furthermore,  ASEAN  welcomes  the  valuable 
contributions  made  by  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism to strengthening the engagement between 
African Governments and their peoples.
At  the  international  level,  ASEAN  welcomes 
the  constructive  role  and  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations,  such  as  the  launching  of  the  United  Nations 
monitoring mechanism to review the implementation of 
commitments made to Africa’s development.
have 
countries 
Individually,  ASEAN 
also 
strengthened  their  relations  with  African  Member 
States. Each of us, in our own way, has offered capacity-
building  programmes  and  provided  educational 
scholarships to the African countries.We hope that our 
assistance has benefited African countries and helped 
them  make  progress  towards  attaining  the  MDGs  by 
2015.  Above  all,  we  share  the  view  of  many  African 
countries  that  have  placed  great  emphasis  on  the 
importance  of  including  poverty  eradication  in  the 
post-2015 agenda.
Turning to the issue of malaria, both ASEAN and 
African countries have been affected by that contagious 
disease. ASEAN therefore supports Africa’s efforts to 
combat malaria and other diseases, including HIV/AIDS 
and tuberculosis. ASEAN welcomes the establishment 
of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  to  help  developing  countries  eradicate  those 
deadly  pandemics.  Each  ASEAN  member  State  has 
different  experiences  and  areas  of  expertise,  and  we 
stand  ready  to  share  our  best  practices  with  African 
countries.
In 
joins 
that  regard,  ASEAN 
the  Secretary-
General’s  call  upon  other  countries  in  a  position  to 
contribute, as mentioned in his report, to continue and 
to redouble efforts to help accelerate the achieving of 
MDGs  and  sustainable  development  and  sustainable 
growth  in  Africa.  In  addition,  ASEAN  looks  forward 
to sharing and exchanging information and experiences 
on  development-related  issues.  We  hope  all  those 
combined  efforts  will  aid  our  African  colleagues  in 
achieving their Goals.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Poulsen (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Iceland and Serbia; the country of the Stabilization and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
to 
the  economic  and 
Let  me  start  by  emphasizing  the  importance  the 
EU  and  its  member  States  attach  to  the  EU-Africa 
partnership  and 
social 
development  of  African  countries.  We  are  proud  of 
having  built  a  strategic  partnership  between  Europe 
and  Africa  —  the  first  region-to-region  strategic 
partnership  in  the  world  —  having  at  its  heart  the 
principles  of  African  unity,  mutual  interdependence 
and enhanced cooperation.
The  Africa-EU  Strategic  Partnership,  established 
in  2007,  reflects  the  shared  vision  and  commitment 
to  work  towards  the  common  goals  of  Africa’s 
54  countries  and  the  European  Union’s  28  member 
States — a combined population of 1.5 billion citizens. 
Next  April  in  Brussels,  Europe  and  Africa  will  meet 
for  the  fourth  Africa-Europe  Summit  to  take  that 
Partnership to a new level. We will advance further in 
promoting sustainable development in our two regions, 
6/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
in  nurturing  and  defending  democracy  and  basic 
freedoms and in offering a better future to our citizens.
Africa  is  in  the  process  of  a  long-term  political 
and  socioeconomic  transformation,  as  we  have  heard 
from  presentations  and  discussions  this  week  in 
celebration of the tenth anniversary of the African Peer 
Review Mechanism and the fiftieth anniversary of the 
establishment  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity, 
now the African Union.
It is with great satisfaction that we witness Africa 
realizing  its  huge  potential,  with  impressive  levels  of 
growth — 5 per cent on average, and up to double that 
in some countries. Seven out of the world’s 10 fastest-
growing  economies  are  African.  There  is  a  rapidly 
emerging  middle  class  and  a  young,  dynamic,  fast-
growing population that is expected to double by 2050. 
Those are all huge assets that are already transforming 
the continent for the better. Africa’s economic and social 
development benefits first and foremost the people of 
Africa, but we believe it is also in the interests of the 
European Union.
Recognizing  the  principle  of  African  solutions 
for  African  challenges,  we  acknowledge  the  essential 
role  of  the  African  Union  and  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  in  the  definition 
of  continent-wide  economic  and  political  governance 
policy  frameworks  and  programmes  to  underpin  that 
transformation and to address the significant challenges 
still  ahead  of  us,  in  particular  in  eradicating  poverty 
and  making  sure  that  growth  and  wealth  benefit  the 
largest number of people.
For our part, we would like to reassure delegations 
that  the  European  Union  is  and  will  remain  Africa’s 
most  important  partner  as  far  as  development  aid  is 
concerned  and,  more  important,  in  trade,  investment, 
security and people-to-people contacts.
The EU and its member States remain Africa’s most 
important donors, providing 45 per cent — equivalent 
to  €21  billion —  of  the  aid  targeting  the  continent  in 
2011 alone. The support covers all of NEPAD’s strategic 
focus areas. It includes, inter alia, support to the African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  the  main  African-led 
framework  to  monitor  and  promote  good  governance 
on  the  continent,  and  support  aligned  to  two  NEPAD 
programmes recommended by the General Assembly in 
resolution  67/294,  on  NEPAD,  adopted  a  few  months 
ago, for increased alignment by development partners: 
the  Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development  in 
Africa  and  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme.
It 
the 
that 
is  estimated 
lack  of  adequate 
infrastructure  can  reduce  productivity  by  as  much  as 
40 per cent. That is why Africa gives great importance 
to its Programme for Infrastructure Development, and 
that  is  why  a  cornerstone  of  our  cooperation  is  the 
EU-Africa Infrastructure Trust Fund, which has a total 
funding of €746 million.
Boosting  agricultural  productivity,  food  security 
and  resilience  is  another  major  priority  in  achieving 
the  goal  of  eradicating  poverty  and  tapping  Africa’s 
potential.  That  is  why  we  are  providing  support  to 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  at  the  continental,  regional  and  national 
levels.
The  European  Union  also  remains  the  biggest 
trading  partner  for  the  African  continent,  accounting 
for  one  third  of  Africa’s  total  trade.  European  Union 
countries also invest considerably in Africa. From 2005 
to 2010, European Union countries were responsible for 
43.7 per cent of foreign direct investment in Africa.
Africa  continues 
to  face  a  huge  burden  of 
potentially  preventable  and  treatable  diseases.  We 
know  that  malaria  and  other  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases  inflict  a  heavy  burden 
on  Africa,  particularly  on  women,  children  and  the 
most vulnerable. The European Union and its member 
States  will  continue  their  collective  support,  always 
seeking  the  most  efficient  modes  of  delivery,  by 
working through national Governments, but also with 
the  relevant  organizations  and  mechanisms.  Those 
include  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis 
and  Malaria,  which  the  European  Commission  has 
been associated with since it was founded 12 years ago. 
Since then the Commission has contributed more than 
€1.1  billion  to  the  Global  Fund.  Collectively,  the  EU 
and  its  member  States  have  been  contributing  50  per 
cent  to  the  Global  Fund’s  budget  so  far.  Combating 
diseases such as malaria, through strengthened national 
health systems that are responsive and able to deliver 
comprehensive,  quality  health  services  for  the  entire 
population,  is,  in  our  view,  one  of  the  most  effective 
ways  to  alleviate  poverty  and  promote  equitable  and 
sustainable economic growth.
The  Africa-EU 
beyond 
development to tackle other issues of common interest, 
such  as  peace  and  security,  which  are  essential  for 
partnership 
goes 
13-53026
7/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
the  development  and  prosperity  of  any  country.  It  is 
universally  recognized  that  development,  peace  and 
security and human rights are interlinked and mutually 
reinforcing.
The  African  Union  is  stepping  up  actions  to  help 
to resolve the conflicts on the continent. We welcome 
that development and are directly supporting Africa’s 
capability to manage African problems. Since 2004, the 
EU has provided more than €1.1 billion to the African 
Peace  Facility  to  fund  the  African-led  Peace  Support 
Operations Division, strengthen the African Peace and 
Security  Architecture  and  operationalize  the  early-
response mechanism.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that the European 
Union and its member States remain fully committed to 
supporting Africa and Africans in their quest for peace, 
democratic  governance,  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development.
Ms.  AlGharabally  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  discuss 
agenda 
item  63,  entitled  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development:  progress  in  implementation 
and  international  support”,  along  with  its  sub-items 
(a)  and  (b).  We  have  taken  note  of  the  two  reports 
of  the  Secretary-General  contained  in  documents 
A/68/220 and A/68/222, which emphasize the political 
measures taken by Africa countries and organizations 
to 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD).
implement 
We have also reviewed the evident progress made 
over the past 12 months on the implementation of NEPAD. 
In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  emphasizes  the 
need to continue to strengthen partnerships in security, 
food  security,  development,  women’s  education  and 
empowerment, the enhancement of the rule of law, and 
general  education    with  a  view  to  promoting  social, 
political and economic development in Africa.
Kuwait  considers  those  matters  highly  important, 
given  the  close  and  historic  links  between  the  State 
of  Kuwait  and  the  African  continent  and  in  the  light 
of  the  difficult  concerns  and  challenges  faced  by  the 
continent,  which  require  the  stepped-up  efforts  of 
the  international  community  to  address  them.  Africa 
continues to face drought, desertification, disease and 
armed  conflict  and  other  obstacles  to  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
It has been 12 years since African Heads of State and 
Governments adopted NEPAD as a global partnership to 
achieve economic and social development in Africa; it 
has been 11 years since the General Assembly convened 
a  high-level  dialogue  on  NEPAD  (see  A/57/PV.11),  in 
September 2002, and adopted resolution 57/7 (see A/57/
PV.43)  in  November  of  that  year.  It  has  also  been  12 
years since United Nations organs and other specialized 
agencies  established  true  development  partnerships 
with Africa in support of development efforts.
It 
that  despite 
is  unfortunate,  however, 
the 
significant  economic  progress  seen  in  a  number  of 
African  countries,  many  people  and  nations  continue 
to suffer owing to rising poverty and the incidence of 
contagious diseases, malaria and HIV/AIDS, in parallel 
with a lack of economic development support projects. 
That is why the international community must seriously 
redouble its efforts to achieve the internationally agreed 
development goals, particularly the MDGs, with a long-
term ambitious view to the Agenda 2063 Vision.
We  firmly  believe  that  development  must  be 
stepped  up  through  the  comprehensive  efforts  of  all 
African  and  Arab  States.  From  the  start,  Kuwait  has 
persisted  in  fulfilling  its  pledges  to  that  end  through 
all of its partnerships and international commitments. 
In  that  context,  Kuwait  affirms  its  ongoing  tireless 
efforts to support developing countries generally, and 
African countries in particular, both officially and via 
the private sector.
Kuwait’s  official  development  assistance  remains 
an ongoing aspect of its foreign policy, for we strongly 
believe that economic development will benefit all and 
will strengthen partnerships and cooperation, while at 
the same time strengthening the global economic and 
trade regime. My country will continue to support the 
aspirations and efforts of developing countries to that 
end, especially African countries.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  enjoyed  partnerships 
with  African  States  throughout  history,  which  have 
been  reinforced  at  the  political  and  economic  levels 
through unique bilateral relationships. We would recall 
the  key  role  of  the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic 
Development and its presence in 48 of the 54 African 
Union States. Today, the Fund is continuing to expand 
its  activities  and  financing  efforts  in  102  States, 
including  projects 
transportation, 
energy,  water,  infrastructure,  health  and  education. 
The African continent has been a priority of the Fund, 
which has invested more than $6.4 billion therein. It has 
also contributed to an initiative of the World Bank and 
in  agriculture, 
8/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
the International Monetary Fund in 1996 to reduce the 
debt of 24 African Union countries.
Kuwait has also launched and contributed to a fund 
of $100 million aimed at ensuring a life of dignity, as 
many countries have been unable to attend adequately 
to  their  needs  owing  to  the  2007-2008  global  food 
crisis. We have also contributed more than $300 million 
to  various  other  funds  aimed  at  reducing  famine  and 
poverty in Africa. We also contributed the substantial 
sum of $500 million to the holding of a donors conference 
in support of the eastern part of the Sudan. All of those 
efforts show our deep commitment to Africa.
Kuwait, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth 
anniversary  of  its  admission  as  a  State  Member  of 
the  United  Nations,  has  provided  support  to  many  of 
the  Organization’s  agencies,  organs  and  bodies.  We 
recognize  the  importance  of  the  coordinated  action 
needed to address the difficulties and challenges facing 
the  United  Nations.  In  that  connection,  from  18  to 
20  November,  the  State  of  Kuwait  will  host  the  third 
Africa-Arab  Summit  on  partnerships  for  investment 
and development. We hope it will serve to strengthen 
cooperation and stability on both continents.
Kuwait underscores that, in the light of the historical 
relationships, legacy, interests and common destiny of 
Kuwait and Africa and the international community and 
Africa, the international community, the private sector, 
Government  and  non-governmental  organizations  and 
civil society should assist the countries and peoples of 
Africa in fulfilling their aspirations and achieving their 
economic and development goals.
Ms. Bagley (United States of America): The United 
States welcomes the Secretary-General’s report on the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
(A/68/222), as well as his report entitled “2001 to 2010: 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa” (A/66/169).
The  United  States  strongly  supports  the  ongoing 
efforts  of  many  African  countries  to  generate  broad-
based,  sustained  and  inclusive  economic  growth  that 
enables them to reduce poverty and unemployment and 
integrate more successfully into the global economy. We 
are encouraged by their work to create a more enabling 
business  environment  in  their  focus  on  infrastructure 
development  and  cooperation.  We  commend 
the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  for  its 
efforts to support initiatives of individual Governments 
alongside  the  African  Union,  the  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Development  Bank.  This  is  critical  for 
attracting  domestic  investment  and  encouraging  a 
vibrant private sector.
On  the  occasion  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM),  the 
United  States  commends  its  participants  and  their 
determination to share experiences and reinforce best 
practices. We observe as well the obvious dedication of 
the APRM secretariat to that process.
The  United  States  continues  to  support  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  as  the  African 
States’  collective  vision  and  strategic  framework  for 
socioeconomic  development  in  Africa.  We  support 
for  democratization,  good 
NEPAD’s  priorities 
governance  and  economic 
transparency,  as  well 
as  its  initiatives  to  enhance  regional  and  national 
infrastructure,  food  security  and  nutrition.  I  would 
like to highlight briefly some United States initiatives 
in the area of food security and energy infrastructure 
development that support NEPAD objectives.
African countries are essential partners in United 
States  food  security  initiatives.  In  2012,  the  Feed 
the  Future  initiative  has  helped  over  7  million  food 
producers  worldwide  to  adopt  improved  agricultural 
technology  for  over  4  million  hectares  of  land  under 
improved  cultivation  and  management  practices, 
to  increase  the  exports  of  targeted  commodities  by 
$84  million  and  to  increase  the  value  of  agricultural 
and  rural  loans  by  $150  million.  The  programme 
also  reached  over  12  million  children  with  nutrition 
programmes  that  have  reduced  anaemia,  supported 
community  gardens,  fostered  fortification  and  treated 
acute malnutrition.
The  United  States  also  supports  the  work  of  the 
African  Union  and  African  nations  to  invest  in  the 
development  of  their  agricultural  sectors  under  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme.  In  2012,  the  United  States  leveraged 
its  presidency  of  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  to  deepen 
the  global  commitment  to  food  security.  At  the  G-8 
Summit  hosted  by  President  Obama  at  Camp  David, 
African  Heads  of  State,  corporate  leaders  and  G-8 
members pledged to partner through the New Alliance 
for  Food  Security  and  Nutrition,  working  with  the 
African  Union  and  Grow  Africa,  to  lift  50  million 
people out of poverty in sub-Saharan Africa by 2022. 
Later  this  year,  we  plan  to  launch  the  Climate-Smart 
Agriculture  Alliance,  working  with  South  Africa  and 
13-53026
9/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
others, to underpin and accelerate the implementation 
of climate-smart agricultural practices.
In  June  President  Obama  launched  the  Power 
Africa  initiative,  one  of  a  number  of  United  States 
actions  to  support  infrastructure  development.  With 
an  initial  set  of  six  partner  countries,  Power  Africa 
aims  to  add  more  than  10,000  megawatts  of  cleaner, 
more  efficient  electricity  generation  and  to  improve 
the  governance  and  transparency  with  which  Africa’s 
conventional energy resources are managed. The trend 
towards 
increasing  domestic-resource  mobilization 
in  support  of  those  projects  is  remarkable.  We  agree 
with NEPAD participants that effective and transparent 
revenue collection and procurement structures are key 
enablers  and  that  public  investment  catalyses  private 
investment.
Turning to the report on malaria, the United States 
has  for  many  years  demonstrated  a  commitment  to 
the  prevention  and  treatment  of  malaria,  and  we  will 
continue to work with national Governments and other 
partners to lead the effort to end deaths from malaria. 
The  President’s  Malaria  Initiative,  launched  in  2005, 
represented a historic $1.2 billion five-year expansion 
of United States Government resources to fight malaria 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  In  2008,  $5  billion  over  five 
more  years  were  allocated  to  halving  the  burden 
of  malaria  in  70  per  cent  of  at-risk  populations  in 
sub-Saharan Africa. The President’s Malaria Initiative 
now focuses on 19 countries in Africa. In 2012 alone, 
over 50 million people were protected against malaria 
through those efforts.
The  global  malaria  fight  is  succeeding.  Deaths 
decreased  by  one  third  over  the  past  decade,  from 
1  million  to  an  estimated  600,000  annually.  We  are 
particularly  proud  of  the  catalytic  role  that  United 
States  financial  and 
technical  contributions  have 
played in reducing the devastating burden of malaria in 
terms of child mortality. Working in close partnership 
with host countries and other development partners, the 
United States goal over the next five years is to sustain 
and  build  on  those  successful  efforts.  We  encourage 
all  donor  and  recipient  nations  to  support  global 
malaria  control  efforts  through  appropriate  financial 
contributions  and  stronger  political  commitments.  If 
each  affected  African  country  works  with  partners 
in  malaria  prevention,  as  many  did  in  HIV/AIDS 
prevention  programmes,  the  goal  of  a  malaria-free 
Africa will be attainable sooner.
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  Thailand  aligns  itself 
with the statement delivered earlier by the representative 
of Brunei Darussalam on behalf of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations.
for  his  comprehensive 
At  the  outset,  Thailand  wishes  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General 
reports 
entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development: 
eleventh consolidated progress report on implementation 
and  international  support”  (A/68/222)  and  “Causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa” (A/68/220).
Africa  is  a  continent  with  enormous  potential, 
endowed  with  human  capital,  a  diverse  environment 
and  natural  resources.  Through 
the  unwavering 
commitments  and  efforts  of  African  countries,  their 
partners  and  regional  organizations,  we  have  seen 
progress in some flagship development programmes, as 
stated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report.  However,  as 
the Secretary-General also notes, persistent challenges 
to  development  in  Africa  remain.  With  the  year  2015 
fast  approaching,  some  countries  still  lag  behind  and 
are unlikely to achieve their Millennium Development 
Goals. Both persistent and emerging global challenges 
remain  unresolved, 
famine,  poverty, 
pandemics,  climate  change,  economic  crisis,  political 
turmoil  and  terrorism.  Those  challenges  need  to  be 
urgently addressed in a holistic manner.
including 
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  is  proof  that  establishing  partnerships  for 
development is the right approach. It makes far-reaching 
goals achievable and some seemingly impossible goals 
possible.  Thailand  therefore  attaches  importance  to 
fostering  partnership  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  in 
Africa.
The year 2013 marks a new chapter in Thai-African 
relations. We are set to enhance our strategic partnership 
with Africa through the Thai-Africa Initiative, which is 
one of the most important items in Thailand’s foreign-
policy agenda. The partnership will be based on three 
main  pillars,  namely,  development,  economics  and 
cooperation. As part of the Initiative, Thailand hosted 
the second senior officials meeting in September, with 
participants  from  37  African  countries.  The  meeting 
discussed  modalities  for  advancing  the  Initiative. 
Several areas of possible cooperation were identified, 
including  food  security,  agriculture,  agro-processing, 
energy,  human  resources  development,  sustainable 
development,  infrastructure  and  the  empowerment  of 
10/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
women. A high-level dialogue between Thai and African 
leaders, which Thailand will host on 3 and 4 February 
2014, will give further impetus to the Initiative and put 
it into action.
Food  security  remains  a  serious  issue.  Greater 
efforts  must  be  made  to  raise  Africa’s  agricultural 
productivity,  as  recommended 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  Thailand  is  determined  to  increase 
our  cooperation  through  the  exchange  of  know-how 
on  sustainable  agricultural  development  and  food 
processing  with  our  African  partners.  We  will  also 
offer agricultural cooperation programmes specifically 
tailored to the needs of individual African countries.
in 
Human  capital  is  the  most  valuable  resource 
for  development,  and  therefore  Thailand  gives  high 
priority  to  cooperation  with  our  African  partners  in 
human  resource  development.  We  will  continue  to 
offer scholarships for higher education and fellowships 
for training. We will also carry out joint development 
projects in areas in which we have expertise that could 
be of value to Africa, such as fisheries, health care and 
rural development.
Thailand, as one of the three donor countries to the 
Yokohama  Action  Plan  for  the  period  2013-2017,  will 
continue  its  participation  in  the  Tokyo  International 
Conference on African Development (TICAD). We see 
TICAD as a very important platform for enhancing the 
development of Africa. Thailand will also continue its 
engagement  with  Africa  in  a  wide  range  of  areas,  in 
the spirit of South-South cooperation. We value highly 
and  hope  to  increase  our  triangular  cooperation  with 
such  United  Nations  agencies  as  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  through  the 
International Trade and Development Centre based in 
Bangkok.
Health is another vital issue, for sustainable growth 
and development cannot be achieved without a healthy 
population. Thailand has undertaken a proactive policy 
to roll back malaria. We have set a target of reducing 
the  malaria-affected  area  of  Thailand  to  20  per  cent 
by  2020.  Not  only  have  we  forged  close  cooperation 
with  our  neighbours  in  the  greater  Mekong  region, 
but we have now extended our support to Africa. Our 
African partners now include Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
the  Gambia,  Mali  and  Senegal.  Technology-transfer 
projects for the local production of malaria drugs have 
also  been  successfully  implemented.  Thailand  is  also 
committed  to,  and  actively  advocates,  universal  and 
equitable  access  to  treatment  and  medication  without 
discrimination.
It 
totally  with 
is  Thailand’s  firm  belief 
that  sustainable 
development  and  durable  peace  and  security  are 
mutually  reinforcing.  We  agree 
the 
Secretary-General,  who  states  in  his  report  that  the 
consolidation  of  democracy  and  the  entrenchment 
of  the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance  are  critical 
to  Africa’s  economic  and  political  stability.  On  our 
part, we will continue to play our role in contributing 
to peace and security in Africa. Our men and women 
have  participated,  and  are  currently  participating,  in 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation 
in  Darfur,  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  and 
the  counter-piracy  task  groups  in  the  Gulf  of  Aden 
and  in  Somalia.  Our  African  brothers  and  sisters  and 
the  international  community  can  continue  to  count 
on  Thailand  to  support  Africa  and  the  international 
community  in  achieving  and  maintaining  peace  and 
security.
Thailand is committed to strengthening the global 
partnership for development in Africa. We will be more 
than happy to share our experiences and best practices 
in  the  various  areas  of  development  with  our  African 
brothers and sisters, so that our two continents, while 
geographically  far  apart,  will  become  ever  closer 
through the spirit of cooperation.
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  Recently,  the  African  continent  has  seen 
strikingly  positive  changes.  The  main  credit  for  that 
belongs  to  Africans  themselves.  Despite  ongoing 
challenges,  Africa  continues  to  confidently  move 
transformation  and  modernization. 
towards  broad 
Russia  welcomes 
the  African 
community  is  making.  The  active  participation  of 
African  countries  in  global  political,  economic  and 
humanitarian  processes  is  an  important  factor  in  the 
successful implementation of the priorities of the global 
socioeconomic agenda.
the  efforts 
that 
We support coordinated measures to help achieve 
the sustainable development of the African continent. 
We  attach  high  priority  to  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), and we are currently 
participating  in  agreed  steps  to  provide  NEPAD  with 
comprehensive assistance, both bilaterally and through 
existing international mechanisms, including the Group 
of Eight (G-8) and the Group of 20.
13-53026
11/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
For many decades, Russia has been providing direct 
assistance  to  the  African  continent.  We  have  already 
written  off  the  main  debt  of  African  States  —  over 
$20 billion, a figure that places Russia firmly in first 
place among the G-8 countries. We intend to continue 
to  help  relieve  the  continent’s  debt  burden.  Relevant 
international  agreements 
for 
development swap have been concluded with Tanzania, 
Zambia  and  Mozambique,  totaling  $263.6  million. 
Russia’s  contribution  to  implementing  the  initiative 
agreed  by  the  G-8  at  the  Camp  David  Summit  in 
May 2012 — the New Alliance for Food Security and 
Nutrition  —  for  the  period  2013  to  2015  amounts  to 
$110 million.
the  debt 
through 
Our  country  is  actively  involved  in  international 
efforts  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to  African 
countries. Through Russia’s contribution to the United 
Nations  World  Food  Programme  Fund  in  2012,  food 
assistance  was  provided  to  Djibouti,  Kenya,  Guinea, 
Somalia,  Ethiopia  and  Chad,  totalling  $13  million. 
In  November  2012,  the  Russian  Federation  provided 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  on  a  bilateral 
basis to Mali and Guinea; in February of this year, to 
Mali  and  Mozambique;  and  in  June  to  Kenyan  flood 
victims. The Government of the Russian Federation has 
decided to earmark a contribution of $1 million to the 
International  Civil  Defence  Organization  in  order  to 
provide humanitarian assistance to Lesotho.
States  of 
the  region  are  given  broad 
trade 
preferences.  Goods  traditionally  exported  from  least 
developed  countries,  most  of  which  are  in  Africa, 
are  not  subjected  to  Russia’s  customs  import  duties. 
Significant assistance is also being provided to African 
countries  in  the  areas  of  health  and  staff  training. 
Russian  institutes  of  higher  education  are  currently 
training  approximately  8,000  Africans,  about  half  of 
whom are granted State funds. In 2012, the countries of 
Africa received around 1,000 stipends from the Russian 
State.  This  year  we  intend  to  increase  that  number 
again.
Russia attaches great importance to achieving the 
goals  of  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria.  In  2011, 
we  contributed  approximately  $20  million  towards 
the  implementation  of  the  World  Bank  programme 
to  combat  malaria  in  African  countries.  Russia’s 
voluntary  contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  total  $100  million. 
Russia’s contribution to the World Health Organization 
for implementing the Global Polio Eradication Initiative 
is $18 million.
Despite the general decline over the past decade in 
the intensity and number of conflicts, Africa remains 
vulnerable  to  many  forms  of  crisis.  That  has  been 
shown in particular by the situations in the Sahel, the 
Great Lakes region and the Horn of Africa. 
The  successful  prevention  and  resolution  of 
conflicts on the continent depends on the skilful use of 
a whole range of specific tools, including early-warning 
and 
response,  preventive  diplomacy,  mediation, 
good  offices,  reconciliation  and  confidence-building 
measures.  We  also  place  great 
importance  on 
systemic  work  to  overcome  the  underlying  causes  of 
conflict,  primarily  those  of  a  long-standing  political, 
socioeconomic  and  humanitarian  nature.  Russia 
provides  consistent  political  support  to  the  efforts  of 
the  African  community  in  that  regard,  and  we  stand 
ready to provide further assistance in strengthening the 
capacity of African States to counter crises.
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  increasingly  active 
involvement  in  crisis  response  by  the  African  Union 
and  subregional  organizations  in  Africa.  The  Peace 
and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  plays  a 
central role in that regard, as do the Continental Early 
Warning  System  and  the  African  Standby  Force.  We 
call  for  increased  partnership  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  on  efforts  to  prevent 
and  resolve  conflicts.  We  note  the  joint  efforts  of 
both organizations on Darfur and Somalia and on the 
Sudan  track.  No  less  important  is  the  need  to  further 
coordinate  actions  regarding  the  crisis  situations  in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, Guinea-
Bissau and the Central African Republic.
As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Russia  makes  a  considerable  contribution  towards 
developing  a  strategic  policy  for  the  international 
community and practical steps to strengthen peace and 
security in Africa. We are expanding our training for 
African  peacekeepers  and  representatives  of  Africa 
countries’  law  enforcement  bodies.  Last  year,  Russia 
made  a  voluntary  contribution  of  $2  million  to  the 
African Peace Fund. 
Russia is keen to develop mutually beneficial and 
multifaceted  cooperation  with  Africa  of  a  long-term, 
strategic nature. We are confident that our partnership 
would be further enhanced by the implementation of the 
initiative launched by President Vladimir Putin of the 
12/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
Russian Federation at the Brazil, Russia, India, China 
and  South  Africa  (BRICS)  forum  held  in  Durban  in 
March. That initiative is designed to establish political 
and economic cooperation between BRICS, the African 
Union, NEPAD and subregional organizations.
Mr.  Prosor  (Israel):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Under-Secretary-
General Maged Abdelaziz and the Office of the Special 
Adviser on Africa for their commitment to promoting 
international  support  for  peace  and  development  in 
Africa.
Winston Churchill once said, “A pessimist sees the 
difficulty in every opportunity. The optimist sees the 
opportunity in every difficulty”. No one would argue 
that the countries of Africa have not had more than their 
fair share of difficulties. Despite their many challenges, 
the continent is rich in talent, energy and hope — the 
building  blocks  needed  to  unlock  the  continent’s  vast 
potential.
My  personal  understanding  of  Africa  does  not 
come  from  Hollywood  movies  or  stories  in  National 
Geographic.  I  speak  from  personal  experience.  I  was 
a young child living in what was then Tanganyika, and 
I recall the warmth and the sense of community of the 
African  people.  I  also  vividly  remember  the  feeling 
of excitement that followed when nations earned their 
independence. In the 1950s and 1960s, dozens of African 
countries pulled down the flags of their colonial Powers 
and raised their own. Since then, nation after nation has 
begun the difficult transition from war towards peace, 
from dictatorship towards democracy and from poverty 
towards economic stability.
We  are  here  today  to  discuss  the  progress  in 
Africa’s development. The New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) is an initiative led by Africans 
for Africa. It provides unique opportunities for African 
countries to take control of their development agenda, 
to work together and to cooperate more effectively with 
their international partners.
From  Zululand  to  Yorubaland  and  from  the  Nile 
River to the Niger River, NEPAD is helping to advance 
Africa’s common goals. One could say that NEPAD is 
the launching pad for Africa in the new millennium. The 
nations  and  peoples  of  Africa  have  made  tremendous 
progress  on  the  path  towards  greater  prosperity.  Yet, 
for all of the promise and opportunity on the horizon, 
there  are  still  daunting  challenges,  including  extreme 
poverty, drought, famine, conflict and gender disparity.
In Burkina Faso the average working day for men 
is  8.5  hours,  but  for  women  it  is  14  hours.  In  Gabon 
women perform 95 per cent of farm work and usually 
work  15  hours  a  day.  In  contrast,  even  during  peak 
agricultural periods, men spend only two to three hours 
per  day  on  agriculture.  Studies  show  that  if  African 
women were given the same access as men to vocational 
training  and  technology,  the  African  economy  would 
expand  by  at  least  40  per  cent.  That  is  a  staggering 
figure and one that cannot be ignored by anyone in this 
Hall.
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  African  nations 
have  the  primary  responsibility  for  their  own  social 
and  economic  development.  But  the  international 
community must do all it can to support their efforts.
In  its  earliest  days,  Israel  was  a  fledgling  State 
barely  able  to  provide  for  its  own.  It  was  surrounded 
by enemies and struggled to cope with the absorption 
of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  refugees.  In  1958,  then-
Foreign  Minister  Golda  Meir  travelled  to  the  African 
continent and saw the many challenges that the African 
nations and Israel shared. She said,
“Like  them,  we  had  shaken  off  foreign  rule;  like 
them, we had to learn for ourselves how to reclaim 
the  land,  how  to  increase  the  yields  of  our  crops, 
how  to  irrigate,  how  to  live  together  and  how  to 
defend ourselves”.
Driven by the Jewish value of “tikkun olam” — the 
obligation  of  every  person  to  play  a  part  in  making 
this world a better place — we launched an ambitious 
programme  to  share  our  nation-building  knowledge 
with the newborn countries of Africa. Today, Israel is 
an oasis of innovation in an otherwise arid region. We 
have more start-up companies than many of the world’s 
wealthiest countries. Our doctors and researchers have 
made medical breakthroughs that have saved countless 
lives.  We  lead  the  world  in  green  technologies,  such 
as  solar  power  and  desalination.  And  our  scientists 
have found innovative ways to vastly expand the yield, 
quantity and quality of crops.
for 
Israel  has  been  eager  to  share  the  secrets  of  its 
success  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  Through  Israel’s 
National  Agency 
International  Development 
Cooperation  —  known  by 
its  Hebrew  acronym, 
MASHAV — we are sharing our innovative solutions 
with countries throughout Africa and around the world. 
Israelis are helping to save lives through organizations 
such as Save a Child’s Heart, which provides paediatric 
13-53026
13/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
cardiac care to children from developing countries who 
suffer from heart disease. That organization has helped 
thousands of children around the world, including from 
Ethiopia, Tanzania, Nigeria, Ghana and Angola.
An  Israeli  irrigation  company  introduced  a  low-
pressure, low-cost drip irrigation system for subsistence 
farmers,  providing  them  with  enough  water  to  raise 
crops  year-round.  In  the  Kenyan  village  of  Kitui, 
farmers  began  using  that  system  instead  of  hauling 
water from wells. They saw a 140 per cent increase in 
harvest yield and a 200 per cent increase in income.
Israeli scientists are also helping to overcome many 
of the most pressing problems faced by African farmers. 
After discovering that 50 per cent of every grain and 
pulse harvest in the developing world was lost to pests 
and  mould,  Israeli  researchers  designed  inexpensive 
bags that protect crops from water and air. Those bags 
are  being  used  by  countless  African  farmers  to  keep 
their grain market-fresh.
There is a wonderful African proverb that says “If 
you want to go quickly, go alone; if you want to go far, 
go together”. That is what NEPAD is about: Africans 
forging Africa’s future, together.
A  new  wave  of  optimism  is  sweeping  through 
the  plains,  mountains  and  savannahs  of  Africa.  But 
in  order  for  that  optimism  to  take  hold,  every  child, 
every  family  and  every  community  must  have  the 
opportunity to build a brighter future. Let us therefore 
pledge to empower the people of Africa, let us commit 
to ensuring that they have equal opportunities and let 
us strive to ensure a brighter future for all of Africa’s 
people.
As  musical  superstar  Shakira  says  in  her  song 
“This time for Africa”, 
“Today’s your day,
I feel it.
You paved the way,
Believe it.
This time for Africa!”
Mr.  Yamazaki  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  Japan 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive reports (A/68/220 and A/68/222).
Today Africa is achieving strong and steady growth. 
In 2012, the average annual economic growth rate on the 
African continent was 6.6 per cent. On the other hand, 
Africa still faces various challenges, including conflict 
and poverty. We must urgently strengthen our efforts to 
work with Africa so that it can take full advantage of 
its natural resources and growing population to realize 
economies and societies from which all people on the 
continent can benefit, including the socially vulnerable. 
We must also strengthen efforts to realize societies that 
are resilient against natural disasters, such as droughts 
and  other  crises  arising  from  economic  and  social 
changes. Needless to say, we must also recognize that 
peace and stability provide the foundation for Africa’s 
development.
Japan had the privilege of hosting the fifth Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD V) in June. The Conference was co-organized 
with the United Nations, the African Union Commission, 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
World Bank. Since 1993, the TICAD process has been 
promoting  African  development  by  emphasizing  both 
ownership by African countries and partnerships with 
the international community, including Japan.
Since the launch of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  in  2001,  the  TICAD  process 
has  been  contributing  to  the  realization  of  NEPAD 
priorities  and  serving  as  an  important  framework  for 
partnership. With the support of an increasing number 
of  co-organizers,  as  I  have  mentioned,  TICAD  has 
grown  into  an  international  forum  with  participants 
from African and partner countries, international and 
regional  organizations,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society.
The  year  2013  was  indeed  a  special  one  for  the 
holding of TICAD V, as it marked the tenth anniversary 
of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM), 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  TICAD  process 
and  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization  of 
African Unity, which was the precursor of the African 
Union.  The  outcome  documents  of  TICAD  V  —  the 
Yokohama  Declaration  2013  and  Yokohama  Action 
2013-2017  —  serve  to  align  the  Conference  agenda 
for the coming five years with the continent’s priority 
objectives  and  initiatives  of  the  African  Union  and 
NEPAD.  As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
indicates, such alignment will foster the implementation 
of  continental  programmes  in  ways  that  will  enable 
Africa  to  meet  its  development  needs  effectively 
and  ensure  African  ownership  and  leadership  of  its 
development agenda.
Also  at  TICAD  V,  Japan  committed  itself  to 
providing  an  assistance  package  for  Africa,  utilizing 
private and public means of up to $32 billion, including 
14/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
$14  billion  in  official  development  assistance  (ODA). 
The emphasis is on infrastructure and human resources 
development,  areas  where  African  countries  and  the 
Japanese private sector have shown strong interest. For 
their part, African countries committed themselves to 
making  infrastructure  development  their  top  priority 
through the Programme for Infrastructure Development 
in  Africa  (PIDA),  as  mentioned  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General. In order to strengthen and diversify 
sectors that will foster robust and sustainable growth, 
Japan  strongly  supports  working  through  PIDA  with 
financial  assistance  amounting  to  $6.5  billion  for 
infrastructure.
What  Africa  needs  now 
is  private-sector 
investment.  Japan  will  leverage  private  investment  in 
Africa  through  public-private  partnerships,  including 
the provision of public finance.
Agriculture  and  food  security  are  also  key  issues 
in  Africa.  In  particular,  rural  development,  with 
special care for women and smallholder farmers, also 
contributes to poverty eradication. Japan welcomes the 
fact that African countries are collectively committed, 
through 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development  Programme,  to  the  goal  of  annually 
increasing their agricultural productivity by 6 per cent 
and  allocating  10  per  cent  of  their  national  budgets 
towards  agricultural  investment.  Along  with  that 
initiative,  Japan  will  continue  to  support  the  efforts 
of the Coalition for African Rice Development, which 
seeks to double rice production in sub-Saharan Africa 
to  28  million  tons  by  2018.  The  Prime  Minister  of 
Japan, Mr. Shinzo Abe, held a summit round table on 
agricultural  development,  with  the  African  regional 
economic  communities,  NEPAD  and  TICAD  as 
co-organizers, during the week of high-level meetings 
at the General Assembly in September and reaffirmed 
the strategic approach of TICAD V to empower farmers 
as mainstream economic actors.
Climate change is another serious issue, as many of 
Africa’s  major  economic  sectors,  such  as  agriculture, 
livestock and fisheries, are being increasingly severely 
impacted  by  it.  Africa’s  efforts  to  address  climate 
change  include  the  strategy  on  climate  change  and 
drought  risk  preparedness  and  resilience.  Japan  has 
been  contributing  to  those  efforts  through  ODA 
projects, including the African Adaptation Programme. 
Japan also made a commitment of financial support on 
the occasion of TICAD V, amounting to $2 billion, to 
promote low-carbon energy.
the 
Health  constitutes 
foundation  of  human 
development  for  growth,  and  progress  in  the  field  of 
health is essential to meet the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  Yokohama  Declaration  decided 
that  universal  health  coverage  should  be  promoted 
throughout Africa. Japan will promote universal health 
coverage  in  Africa  with  the  goal  that  all  people  will 
be able to receive basic health services. At TICAD V, 
Japan announced that it had set aside $500 million to 
address  health  issues  in  Africa  and  had  been  setting 
up  training  programmes  for  some  120,000  health  and 
medical service providers. Also, Prime Minister Abe, 
in his address to the General Assembly in September 
(see  A/68/PV.12),  announced  his  intention  to  make 
an  appropriate  contribution  at  the  upcoming  fourth 
replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria.
TICAD  has  made  clear  that  peace  and  stability 
are 
fundamental  prerequisites 
for  socioeconomic 
development  in  Africa.  African  initiatives  such  as 
the African Peace and Security Architecture, in close 
cooperation with regional economic communities and 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM),  play 
a  pivotal  role  in  peacekeeping  in  Africa.  Japan  will 
assist  the  APRM  and  other  programmes  to  promote 
good governance in 30 countries. Also, Japan will help 
the capacity of the African Union’s regional economic 
communities  to  implement  their  initiatives  on  peace 
and  stability,  including  through  financial  support  to 
funds.
Human  security  is  an  effective  approach  that 
focuses  on  individuals  and  helps  build  societies  in 
which  everyone  can  live  with  dignity  by  protecting 
and  empowering  individuals  and  communities  that 
are exposed to actual or potential threats. In 2011, the 
General  Assembly  adopted  by  consensus  resolution 
66/290,  on  human  security.  Japan  is  determined  to 
contribute to further promoting human security in all 
parts of the world in collaboration with all stakeholders. 
That is true in the case of Africa, since human security 
was included as one of the overarching principles in the 
Yokohama Declaration 2013.
TICAD V welcomed the African Union Commission 
as a new co-organizer. That made TICAD, in a true sense, 
an  African-owned,  African-led  and  African-managed 
process, in cooperation with the United Nations system, 
the  World  Bank  and  Japan.  Japan  sincerely  hopes  to 
strengthen  both  ownership  by  African  countries  and 
partnership  with  development  partners  in  the  TICAD 
13-53026
15/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
process.  We  are  also  considering  ways  in  which  civil 
society  and  the  private  sector,  whose  involvement  is 
critical  for  the  long-term,  self-sustained  development 
of Africa, can be further incorporated into the process.
Let  me  conclude  my  statement  by  reaffirming 
Japan’s unwavering long-term commitment to African 
development.
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  I  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States. To say the item before us is of 
great importance to Africa would be an understatement; 
I should say it is of vital importance for Africa.
I would like to express our deep appreciation to the 
Secretary-General for his leadership and commitment 
in  seeking  to  put  Africa’s  agenda  at  the  centre  of  the 
work of the United Nations system.
We associate ourselves fully with the statement to be 
delivered later by Mr. Ibrahim Hassane Mayaki, Chief 
Executive Officer of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency.
The year 2013 is an important one for Africa, as it 
marks the golden jubilee of our continental organization, 
the Organization of African Unity. It is in that context 
that we wish to underline the important role that NEPAD 
has played as a common and shared vision for Africa’s 
renewal. That vision is premised on the need for Africa 
to take its rightful place in the global system, based on a 
self-defined transformative agenda and ownership. The 
Constitutive Act of the African Union set out the core 
values and principles that are necessary if the continent 
is  to  achieve  democracy  and  economic  development, 
while  NEPAD  seeks  to  implement  those  values  and 
principles in a concrete manner on the ground.
Over  the  years,  NEPAD  has  matured  into  the 
flagship development programme of the African Union. 
It  programmatic  activities  in  priority  areas,  including 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  health  and  technology, 
have  promoted  stronger  African  ownership  through 
active and effective cooperation with partners. NEPAD 
has  also  been  making  immense  contributions  to  the 
transformation of policy design and the implementation 
of Africa’s development objectives.
In  the  same  vein,  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism has enabled the countries of the continent 
to  learn  from  each  other’s  experiences  on  issues  of 
economic, political and social governance. Because of 
those  milestones,  Africa  has  indeed  witnessed  a  new 
era of renewed momentum, and the foundations for the 
renaissance of Africa are being laid.
Over  the  past  decade,  several  African  economies 
have entered a high-growth trajectory. In addition, the 
number of conflicts affecting our continent has slowly 
subsided.  Moreover,  we  are  witnessing  improved 
governance,  with  the  resurgence  of  a  democratic 
dispensation in many of our countries. No longer is our 
continent  the  marginalized  part  of  the  world,  fit  only 
for consideration from the perspective of humanitarian 
assistance.
Even  during  what  are  difficult  times  globally, 
Africa has continued to register growth. Undoubtedly, 
for  us  to  achieve  more,  the  global  situation  has 
to  improve,  including  in  terms  of  financing  for 
development  and  the  multilateral  trading  system. 
In  that  regard,  we  wish  to  agree  with  the  comments 
and  recommendations  reflected  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/68/222).  However,  despite  the 
significant progress in accelerating growth and social 
development, as reflected in that report, persistent and 
serious  challenges  remain,  including  limited  progress 
towards the attainment of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) and the ambitious Agenda 2063 Vision. 
Negative global realities have continued to influence 
Africa’s development outlook since the turn of the new 
millennium. The global financial and economic crises, 
worsened  by  the  fiscal  disarray  and  climate  change, 
have impacted Africa’s progress directly and indirectly. 
In that light, we feel that Africa has done its level best 
to address the many challenges it faces, which justified 
the  appeal  contained  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
and  subsequently  led  to  a  series  of  commitments 
made  in  the  outcomes  of  international  conferences  in 
favour of Africa’s special situation. Obviously, without 
going into the details, we can by no means assert that 
commitments made to Africa have been delivered. That 
can be seen in the lack of sufficient progress made with 
respect  to  the  MDGs.  The  implementation  of  MDG 
aid has left much to be desired. A few countries have 
made notable progress on a large number of MDGs but, 
overall, progress has been largely disappointing. More 
therefore  needs  to  be  done  in  the  period  remaining 
before 2015.
including 
For  that  reason,  we  call  on  the  international 
community, 
to 
redouble  its  efforts  to  ensure  that  those  challenges 
are overcome. In that regard, it is our considered view 
that  the  international  community  has  a  responsibility 
the  United  Nations, 
16/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
to  meet  its  commitments  to  Africa,  which  represents 
a  special  situation.  There  is  a  large  deficit  that  needs 
to  be  addressed  in  the  remaining  period  for  MDG 
implementation  and  in  connection  with  the  post-2015 
agenda, as well as in connection with the elaboration of 
the sustainable development goals. I wish to emphasize 
that the priority areas of NEPAD need to be front and 
centre.
For  our  part,  I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Africa  will  do  its  best  to  achieve  the  vision  of  an 
integrated,  peaceful  and  prosperous  Africa  driven  by 
its  own  citizens  and  representing  a  dynamic  force  in 
the global arena.
To conclude, I thank all those who have stood with 
us and who will, I am sure, continue to stand behind us.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At 
present, peace and development in Africa have entered 
a new, critical stage. With its booming economy, Africa 
has one of the fastest growth rates in the world. United 
and  resolute,  African  countries  have  kept  taking  new 
steps  to  advance  integration  and  sustained  stability 
and development. Much headway has been made in the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  and  Africa’s  international 
status is rising. At the same time, however, as the result 
of such factors as the international financial crisis and 
the slow pace of the global economic recovery, Africa 
is  faced  with  a  deteriorating  external  development 
environment.  Regional  conflicts  and  hot  spots  also 
keep flaring up and humanitarian crises have become 
more serious, posing huge challenges to Africa’s efforts 
to seek peace, stability and development. 
At the beginning of the second decade of NEPAD, 
the 
international  community  should  continue 
to 
increase  its  attention  to  and  engagement  with  Africa 
so as to achieve greater progress in the implementation 
of  NEPAD  and  promote  stability  and  prosperity. 
Africa  is  an  important  member  of  the  international 
community.  Its  peace  and  security  are  closely  linked 
to  the  interests  and  welfare  of  other  members  of  the 
international  community.  Finding  effective  ways  to 
help  African  countries  tackle  security  challenges  and 
achieve durable peace and sustainable development is 
an important task for the international community. In 
that connection, China would like to make a number of 
proposals. 
First, all commitments to Africa should be honoured. 
The international community should scale up assistance 
to Africa. Developed countries should follow through 
on their official development assistance commitments, 
deliver on their promises of assistance and debt relief 
and  help  Africa  in  finance,  technology  and  capacity-
building.  Developing  countries  should  help  Africa  by 
enhancing  South-South  cooperation,  which  offers  a 
framework  for  them  to  share  experiences  in  poverty 
alleviation and development and to supplement North-
South  cooperation  with  a  view  to  achieving  common 
development.  The  international  community  should 
improve Africa’s development environment and should 
increase support to Africa in various aspects, including 
finance, trade and debt relief.
Secondly, Africa should feature more prominently 
on the post-2015 development agenda. The international 
community  should  continue  to  help  Africa  accelerate 
progress  towards  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  At 
time,  priority 
attention should be given to Africa’s special challenges 
and  development  needs  in  formulating  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  in  order  to  ensure  that  it  is  in 
line with the NEPAD priority areas, which are centred 
on poverty reduction and aimed at promoting Africa’s 
overall development. 
the  same 
Thirdly, the autonomy of African countries should 
be  respected.  The  international  community  should 
recognize  Africa’s  reality,  respect  the  will  of  African 
countries and support them in handling their affairs by 
themselves. At the same time, in carrying out economic 
and  technical  cooperation  with  Africa,  we  must  fully 
take  into  account  the  specific  situation  of  African 
countries,  accommodate 
their  concerns  and  give 
them ample policy space in order to achieve mutually 
beneficial, win-win results and common development.
Fourthly,  recent  years  have  witnessed  more 
pronounced instability and uncertainty in Africa, where 
regional hot spots keep flaring up and non-traditional 
security  threats,  such  as  terrorism,  have  grown.  The 
international community should adhere to the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and,  on  the  basis  of  full  respect  for  the  sovereignty, 
independence  and 
integrity  of  African 
countries,  make  active  efforts  to  promote  peace 
and  facilitate  negotiations  with  a  view  to  resolving 
any  disputes  through  peaceful  means.  Moreover,  it 
should  strengthen  coordination  and  collaboration 
with the African Union (AU) and African subregional 
organizations,  take  concrete  measures  to  help  Africa 
reinforce 
its  collective  security  mechanisms  and 
territorial 
13-53026
17/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
support the settlement of African issues by Africans in 
African ways.
China and Africa have always been linked by shared 
destinies.  Similar  historical  experiences,  identical 
development  tasks  and  shared  strategic  interests  have 
bound  us  together.  The  China-Africa  relationship  is 
characterized by sincerity, friendship, mutual respect, 
equality,  mutual  benefit  and  common  development. 
Since  the  establishment  of  the  new  China-Africa 
strategic partnership, we have deepened our relationship 
with African countries and regional organizations such 
as the AU. China actively supports African integration 
and  has  steadily  stepped  up  its  support  to  NEPAD. 
In  2012,  trade  between  China  and  Africa  approached 
$200  billion,  and  over  1.5  million  people  travelled 
between  our  two  sides.  By  2012,  China’s  total  direct 
investment in Africa exceeded $15 billion.
This  year  marks 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
China’s  dispatch  of  medical  teams  to  Africa.  Over 
the past 50 years, China has deployed 18,000 medical 
personnel  to  Africa,  who  have  treated  250  million 
patients  throughout  the  continent.  During  his  visit  to 
Africa in March, President Xi Jinping elaborated on the 
tenets  of  the  cooperation  between  China  and  Africa, 
which  include  sincerity,  real  results,  kinship  and 
good  faith,  and  announced  a  series  of  new  initiatives 
to  support  Africa’s  development.  Those 
include 
providing  Africa  with  a  $20  billion  loan  over  three 
years, translating the partnership for transnational and 
transregional  infrastructure  development  into  reality 
and implementing the African Talents Programme. 
Over  the  next  three  years,  we  will  train  30,000 
African professionals in various fields, while offering 
18,000  scholarships  to  African  students  and  scaling 
up technology transfer to and sharing know-how with 
the  continent.  China  is  actively  following  up  on  an 
initiative  on  partnerships  for  cooperation  between  its 
Government and Africa aimed at strengthening peace 
and security, and is steadily increasing its constructive 
participation in the peace and security affairs of Africa 
in order to help create the conditions for Africa’s social 
and economic development. 
China  plays  an  active  role  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  in  Africa.  Currently,  we 
have 1,400 troops in six United Nations peacekeeping 
missions  on  the  continent.  China  has  increased  its 
support 
for  peacekeeping  and  capacity-building 
initiatives  in  African  countries,  the  African  Union 
and  African  subregional  organizations.  We  have  also 
provided the African Union with military aid valued at 
RMB 50 million in support of African efforts to resolve 
the continent’s problems on its own.
through 
thick  and 
China’s  development  is  inseparable  from  that 
of  Africa  and  the  world.  China  will  always  consider 
Africa  a  friend 
thin.  While 
1.3  billion  Chinese  people  are  working  to  make  the 
Chinese dream of national rejuvenation come true, over 
1 billion Africans are also trying to realize their dream 
of  unity,  self-reliance,  development  and  prosperity. 
China is willing to join hands with African countries 
in  expanding  and  deepening  cooperation  in  all  areas 
and  in  ways  that  broaden  cooperation  between  China 
and Africa in a mutually beneficial manner, ultimately 
leading to the attainment of our shared aspirations.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt): At the outset, allow me to thank 
the  Secretary-General,  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa 
and the Chief Executive Officer of the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  for  the  report  on 
progress in the implementation of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (A/68/222) and the report on 
the causes of conflict in Africa (A/68/220).
NEPAD  represents  Africa’s  aspirations  to  take 
its  its  affairs  into  its  own  hands.  It  is  an  African-
owned  instrument  aimed  at  reducing  poverty  and 
putting  Africa  on  a  path  to  sustainable  development. 
NEPAD  reflects  Africa’s  common  vision  to  achieve 
its  development  goals  in  specific  thematic  areas: 
agriculture and food security; regional integration and 
infrastructure;  human  development;  and  information 
and  communication  technology.  Over  the  past  few 
years, NEPAD has achieved a new mandate through the 
adoption  of  a  new  approach.  It  is  working  to  change 
its  management  from  a  sector-based  approach  to  one 
focused  on  programmatic  and  thematic  activities. 
Egypt  is  a  proud  founding  member  of  NEPAD.  We 
have  proposed  an  ambitious  infrastructure  project  to 
establish  a  navigable  route  from  Lake  Victoria  to  the 
Mediterranean Sea through the Nile River, serving the 
economies of the countries of the Nile basin.
NEPAD’s  development  focus  is  complemented 
by  the  governance  focus  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism.  This  year  marks  the  commemoration 
of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the 
Mechanism.  It  currently  has  33  members  that  have 
joined voluntarily, representing more than 75 per cent 
of  all  African  countries  and  the  African  population. 
The  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  is  another 
manifestation  of  Africa’s  commitment  to  enhancing 
18/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
good  governance  and  respect  for  human  rights  and 
democratic values.
African  Governments  and  their  partners  must 
redouble their efforts to build stronger partnerships with 
the  private  sector  and  civil  society,  in  addition  to  the 
mobilization of adequate resources to sustain inclusive 
economic  growth  that  is  more  resilient  to  external 
shocks, as well as ensuring that the growth dividends 
are  shared  by  all  segments  of  society,  including  the 
most vulnerable people. Egypt is doing its part through 
a dedicated fund for Africa that finances a number of 
development programmes in many African countries. 
the 
requires 
Achieving  NEPAD’s  objectives 
the 
support  of 
international  community.  It  also 
requires the creation of a conducive environment that 
supports  fair  trade,  alleviates  the  burden  of  debt  on 
African countries, increases foreign direct investment 
and  enhances  Africa’s  participation  in  international 
economic  decision-making  processes.  Within 
the 
United Nations system, that will mean the integration 
of  the  NEPAD  agenda  and  programmes  within  the 
sustainable  development  goals  process,  as  well  as  the 
broader post-2015 development agenda.
It  is  important  to  emphasize  the  need  to  sustain 
and  consolidate  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa, as the leading United Nations entity dedicated 
to  advancing  African  issues.  The  Office  needs  to  be 
empowered so that it can undertake its role as called for 
by the General Assembly to address the special needs 
of  African  development,  coordinate  the  Inter-Agency 
Task  Force  on  Africa  and  monitor  the  delivery  of 
many  international  commitments  towards  financing 
development in Africa.
The 
international  community  has  achieved 
significant progress in the elimination of malaria from 
developing countries, halving the number of deaths each 
year. However, malaria still kills hundreds of thousands 
of people every year, 90 per cent of them in Africa. We 
recognize the vital role played by the African Leaders 
Malaria Alliance, which is instrumental in helping to 
sustain  the  efforts  exerted  by  African  Governments, 
particularly  in  the  areas  of  prevention,  access  to 
medicine and diagnostic tools.
Malaria has serious negative repercussions. It costs 
the world almost $12 billion each year. In order to succeed 
in  combating  malaria,  the  international  community 
should provide enough resources for programmes aimed 
at early diagnosis as well as scientific research and the 
production  of  the  necessary  medicines,  vaccinations 
and pesticides in Africa. Eliminating malaria requires 
a multisectoral approach that treats malaria not just as 
a  disease,  but  also  addresses  the  developmental  and 
social aspects of it. That includes providing clean water, 
infrastructure  projects  and  decent  housing,  among 
other  things.  The  international  community  needs  to 
encourage  continued  technical  and  financial  support 
for malaria programmes in African countries.
Finally,  it  is  important  to  note  the  relationship 
between  peace,  security  and  development.  There  is 
a  need  to  focus  on  development  strategies  in  order  to 
address  the  linkages  between  the  challenges  of  peace 
and  development.  Egypt  calls  upon  all  stakeholders, 
including  African  States,  the  United  Nations,  the 
African  Union,  African  subregional  organizations 
and,  of  course,  international  partners  to  adopt  a 
comprehensive approach and to address the challenges 
to peace and security in Africa. In order to address the 
root causes of conflict in Africa, such an approach should 
use  all  the  available  tools  within  those  organizations, 
alongside  partners  working  in  preventive  diplomacy, 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding. 
Mr.  Dukali  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  reports  submitted  under  today’s  agenda  items 
(A/68/220  and  A/68/222).  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz, Special Adviser of the 
Secretary-General on Africa, for his efforts to support 
the African continent. 
I would also like to express my delegation’s support 
for the statement just delivered by the representative of 
Ethiopia on behalf of the African Group.
to 
implementing 
Launched  more  than  10  years  ago,  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  is 
an  African-owned  partnership  by  African  leaders 
continent-wide 
committed 
a 
development  programme  based  on 
infrastructure, 
agriculture and governance, all of which are essential 
for  reaching 
the  goal  of  ensuring  a  prosperous 
continent that can enjoy peace. However, in spite of the 
progress made in recent years, particularly in terms of 
socioeconomic  growth  and  development,  the  African 
continent still faces many challenges that have to date 
prevented  it  from  achieving  all  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  in  order  to  help 
the  African  continent,  development  partners  should 
redouble their efforts to support Africa’s commitment 
to development, particularly those related to providing 
13-53026
19/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
assistance.  It  is  also  important  to  end  the  current 
deadlock in the Doha Round trade talks. An agreement 
should also be reached on allowing countries access to 
global markets.
in  accordance  with 
In  terms  of  food,  it  is  important  to  bolster 
agricultural  productivity 
the 
commitments  undertaken  by  the  New  Alliance  for 
Food  Security  and  Nutrition.  It  is  also  important  to 
review  our  agricultural  priorities  in  order  to  increase 
private investment, because the African continent is the 
region  that  has  suffered  the  most  from  the  impact  of 
the global financial and economic crisis. At the global 
level, economic recovery is under way, yet it remains 
weak  and  unequal.  Nevertheless,  it  is  important  to 
strengthen  national  efforts  to  achieve  food  security 
on  the  continent  by  increasing  the  budget  allocated 
to  agricultural  development  in  rural  Africa.  There  is 
also a need to improve how those efforts are managed. 
In  that  regard,  the  international  community  could 
provide technical support. We would like to emphasize 
that  such  assistance  should  fall  within  the  United 
Nations  framework  for  helping  countries  affected  by 
desertification, drought and soil degradation, especially 
in Africa. 
With  regard  to  peace  and  security  in  Africa,  we 
must  bolster  institutional  cooperation  for  conflict 
prevention, peacekeeping and peacebuilding and work 
towards  post-conflict  recovery,  while  ensuring  stable 
economic  growth,  sustainable  development,  human 
rights, the rule of law and sound public administration. 
Overall,  we  also  need  to  strengthen  security-sector 
reform while promoting democracy, the rule of law and 
good governance in Africa. In that regard, the United 
Nations  system  and  other  partners  should  continue 
providing  African  countries  with  the  assistance  they 
need,  so  as  to  increase  efforts  towards  peacebuilding 
and security on the continent.
like 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would 
to 
underscore  that,  as  a  member  of  NEPAD,  Libya  will 
continue  to  take  effective  action  alongside  other 
African  countries  in  order  to  attain  NEPAD’s  goals. 
That  will  enable  us  to  reap  the  benefits  of  peace, 
growth and prosperity through coordinated efforts, and 
to  implement  cooperation  agreements  among  a  great 
number of African countries. All of that should, in turn, 
enable  African  countries  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and to play an effective role in the 
global economic order. It should also help us attain the 
sustainable development goals in the post-2015 area, all 
the more so since our continent has human and natural 
resources that could allow it to attain such goals.
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/68/222). The report 
coincides with a number of significant milestones for 
the African continent. The first of them is the fiftieth 
anniversary of the Organization of African Unity. This 
year also marks 10 years since the African Peer Review 
Mechanism was launched. South Africa welcomes the 
report of the Secretary-General on the progress made in 
implementing the goals of NEPAD over the past year.
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to 
Mr. lbrahim Hassane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer 
of the NEPAD Agency, for the enriching briefings he 
has provided us this week. In the light of the ongoing 
discussions on the post-2015 development agenda here 
at  the  United  Nations,  those  talks  have  been  timely 
indeed.
The  inherent  message  that  has  emerged  from  the 
discussions about NEPAD is that Africa is undergoing 
significant  transformations.  In  comparison  with  the 
period just after decolonization, when we were cast as 
the dark and hopeless continent, years later the narrative 
has changed for the better. We should ensure that that 
narrative continues to improve with the Agenda 2063 
Vision.
In  response 
to  socioeconomic 
transformation, 
NEPAD  has  been  a  crucial  blueprint  for  Africa.  It 
has been particularly important in contributing to the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  However,  as  the  African  continent  is  still 
lagging behind on a number of MDGs, it is important 
to redouble our efforts, in the time remaining, towards 
focusing  on  the  MDGs  that  are  challenging  us.  More 
important, it is also imperative that the new development 
agenda be aligned and coherent with the needs of Africa 
and that it builds on the existing MDGs.
Over the past couple of years, NEPAD has yielded 
certain  positive  results.  It  has  transformed,  and  is 
continuing  to  transform,  historical  legacies  such  as 
the lack of cooperation within the continent. Through 
NEPAD’s 
various 
corridors  are  being  opened  up  to  boost  intra-African 
trade as well as development within the continent. For 
instance, there is the North-South corridor, a road and 
rail project from Cape Town to Cairo currently being 
infrastructural 
programmes, 
20/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
championed  by  South  Africa,  as  well  as  a  number  of 
other projects being championed by other countries on 
information and communication technologies, road and 
rail and gas pipelines.
On the agricultural front, South Africa notes that 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme (CAADP) has steadily grown in importance 
as a result of increasing participation by African Union 
(AU)  member  States.  Significantly,  34  members  have 
signed the CAADP Compact, and 23 have finalized their 
national  agriculture  investment  plans.  The  CAADP 
is  an  African  initiative  that  addresses  the  continent’s 
agricultural development needs, an important fact since 
the  majority  of  Africa’s  economies  are  agrarian.  The 
CAADP  is  contributing  positively  to  the  eradication 
of  poverty,  as  many  countries  are  increasing  their 
investments in agriculture.
With regard to the African Peer Review Mechanism 
(APRM),  my  delegation  is  encouraged  by  the  steady 
pace  in  accessions,  notwithstanding  its  voluntary 
nature  and  the  fact  that  the  APRM  is  the  first  Afro-
centric programme that promotes good governance on 
the  continent.  However,  the  challenges  relating  to  the 
financing  of  APRM  need  to  be  addressed  in  order  to 
ensure the effectiveness of the mechanism. South Africa 
has  no  doubt  that  those  challenges  will  be  overcome 
as  Africa  strives  to  consolidate  the  governance  gains 
already  registered  as  a  result  of  the  APRM.  We  also 
appreciate  donor  countries’  ongoing  support  to  our 
initiatives, and we call on the international community 
to continue such assistance, particularly at this crucial 
time when official development assistance is declining.
South Africa remains committed to supporting the 
continent’s  blueprint  for  socioeconomic  development, 
as  well  as  the  APRM.  We  will  continue  to  fund 
developmental  projects  within  Africa  through  the 
African  Renaissance  Fund  of  South  Africa,  thereby 
meeting  the  NEPAD  objectives.  The  South  African 
Development  Partnership  Agency,  set  to  replace  the 
African Renaissance Fund, will also continue to provide 
development assistance.
The  goal  of  providing  people  with  access  to  the 
highest standards of physical and mental health is far 
from  being  achieved.  Non-communicable  diseases 
such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases, and other 
diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS, 
are of global concern. In the light of today’s discussion 
on  malaria,  although  noticeable  progress  has  been 
recorded  in  malaria  control  in  Africa  since  2011,  my 
delegation  adds  its  voice  in  support  of  strengthening 
the fight against malaria. We will continue to support 
the African Leaders Malaria Alliance. We would like 
to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  the  Roll 
Back  Malaria  Partnership  and  other  partners.  One  of 
our own compatriots, Yvonne Chaka Chaka, is the Roll 
Back Malaria Goodwill Ambassador and is continuing 
to do a phenomenal job in mobilizing resources for the 
plight of people who face the disease’s scourges.
On  peace  and  security  issues,  my  delegation 
concurs with the Secretary-General’s observation made 
at his 2013 Freedom Lecture at Leiden Univesity that 
the  lessons  learned  from  conflict  and  post-conflict 
countries demonstrate that 
“[t]here can be no peace without development 
[and]  no  development  without  peace,  and  neither 
can  be  achieved  without  full  respect  for  human 
rights and the rule of law”. 
Since the establishment of the African Union Peace 
and  Security  Council  Architecture,  the  number  of 
conflicts in the continent has significantly decreased. 
That  can  be  further  enhanced  with  United  Nations 
collaboration  with  and  support  to  African  initiatives. 
South Africa is encouraged by the continued cooperation 
between the United Nations and the African Union, in 
particular between the Peace and Security Council and 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council.  We  appreciate 
the  annual  consultative  meetings  between  the  two 
Councils. A number of milestones provide a testament 
to the benefits of that relationship, such as the adoption 
of  resolution  2033  (2012).  In  instances  where  the  two 
Councils  have  cooperated  positively,  the  results  have 
been concrete, such as in the case of the African Union 
Mission in Somalia, the African Union-United Nations 
Hybrid Operation in Darfur and the endorsement of the 
African Union road map on the Sudan and South Sudan 
in  resolution  2046  (2012),  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Security  Force  for  Abyei  and  the  joint  assessment 
mission into the Sahel region. However, it is important 
that  that  relationship  spread  across  the  whole  United 
Nations system so as to support economic communities 
at the regional level.
In conclusion, we express our special gratitude to 
the Special Adviser of the Secretary-General on Africa 
and his team for their sterling job in streamlining the 
African agenda in the work of the United Nations. Given 
the increasing volume of work on Africa and the need 
to follow up on a number of decisions and commitments 
made, it is important that that Office be strengthened.
13-53026
21/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  associates 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of Brunei Darussalam on behalf of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations. Indonesia would also like to 
express  its  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive reports pertaining to the agenda items 
that we are deliberating today (A/68/220 and A/68/222).
Without  a  doubt,  Africa  is  making  noteworthy 
progress, 12 years after the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  was  adopted.  Nevertheless, 
tremendous challenges still lie ahead for Africa. We are 
also aware that efforts to accelerate Africa’s economic 
growth  are  hindered  by  very  substantial  obstacles. 
African countries have also taken strides to overcome 
obstacles  by  becoming  more  interdependent  with  the 
global economy. However, that cannot be achieved by 
African countries alone, as creating sustained growth 
and peace requires partnership and cooperation.
Global  partnerships  and 
international  support 
underpin  NEPAD’s  success.  Bilateral  and  triangular 
cooperation,  as  well  as  South-South  cooperation, 
are  important  components  of  the  global  partnership. 
Ensuring  an  equitable  global  trading  and  financial 
system  is  central  to  creating  sustained  growth.  The 
World  Trade  Organization  talks,  however,  have  yet 
to  reach  any  satisfactory  or  meaningful  conclusion. 
The  ninth  ministerial  conference  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization,  held  in  Bali,  Indonesia,  in  December, 
will be one such opportunity to reverse the deadlock in 
trade talks. The conference should strive to strengthen 
multilateral trade rules, avoid protectionism and sustain 
levels  of  global  trade,  including  the  trade  agreement 
affecting Africa.
For its part, Indonesia, through the New Asia-Africa 
Strategic Partnership and the Non-Aligned Movement 
Centre  for  South-South  Technical  Cooperation  in 
Jakarta, has built a solid base for extensive cooperation 
with Africa. Indonesia has assisted in capacity-building 
in agriculture and food security. We are continuously 
working with a number of countries in Africa to develop 
rice fields with varieties that suit the continent’s weather 
and farming conditions.
Furthermore,  we  should  not  forget  that  public-
private  and  private-private  partnerships  play  an 
important role in expanding Africa’s creative capacities.
Economic  growth  requires  peaceful  conditions. 
Indeed,  the  number  of  armed  conflicts  in  Africa  has 
steadily declined — from approximately 30 at the end 
of the Cold War to little more than a dozen today. From 
only three democracies, today there are 25 democracies 
of varying types in the region. However, conflicts are 
still occurring, and peace remains fragile in a number of 
places.  Peacemaking,  peacebuilding  and  development 
will  therefore  need  to  be  continually  deepened.  For 
that,  African  citizens  and  their  elected  leaders  must 
be  the  drivers  of  progress.  Lasting  success  requires 
robust support from, and collaboration with, the United 
Nations and its partners. 
However, 
sustainable 
development 
results 
ultimately  depend  upon  Africans  themselves.  The 
principle  of  national  ownership,  which  has  been 
steadfastly advocated, particularly in the Peacebuilding 
Commission,  remains  the  dominant  principle.  In  that 
regard, Indonesia commends the important development 
and  progress  made  on  the  ground  in  Liberia  with  the 
launching  of  its  national  reconciliation  strategy,  and 
in  Sierra  Leone  with  its  successful  elections,  among 
other  countries.  We  also  underline  that  support  from 
the  international  community  and  the  United  Nations 
in assisting post-conflict recovery in various countries 
in  the  region  also  requires  deeper  cooperation  and 
partnerships,  not  only  with  the  host  Governments 
concerned  but  also  with  regional  and  subregional 
organizations.  For  its  part,  Indonesia  stands  ready  to 
work with the United Nations, particularly through its 
active  contributions  to  peacekeeping  operations,  its 
membership in the Peacebuilding Commission and its 
long-standing role in advancing mediation and conflict 
prevention.
Unprecedented  efforts  have  been  invested  in  the 
fight  against  malaria  for  over  a  decade,  yet  malaria 
remains a serious problem. Its prevalence, particularly 
among  children  and  pregnant  women, 
remains 
alarmingly  high,  especially  in  the  African  region. 
Therefore,  in  the  700-day  countdown  to  the  deadline 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, we need to further accelerate efforts at all levels 
to  halt  malaria  by  2015.  During  that  period,  let  us 
seize  the  opportunity  to  reverse  its  incidence.  At  the 
global level, the countries with the greatest incidence 
of malaria, especially on the African continent, require 
accelerated  assistance,  including  financial  assistance, 
to  procure  and  distribute  life-saving  interventions. 
Although 
the  Global  Malaria  Action  Plan  has 
contributed significantly, further strengthening of and 
innovation in the financing mechanisms is vital.
22/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
We  also  need  to  further  develop  our  capacity  to 
track progress in malaria control. In global terms we can 
currently detect only one tenth of the estimated number 
of  cases.  We  need  to  further  develop  and  strengthen 
malaria-surveillance systems, including at the regional 
level. At the national level, we have to continue giving 
priority to the fight against malaria and integrate that 
goal  into  national  health  policies  and  frameworks.  To 
reach  the  zero-malaria  goal  requires  a  multisectoral 
approach and cooperation that goes beyond the health 
sector.  In  that  connection,  Indonesia  welcomes  the 
launch  of  the Multisectoral  Action  Framework  for 
Malaria on 24 September. We hope that the Framework 
will  serve  as  the  strategic  platform  for  multilateral 
cooperation and coordination in eradicating malaria.
Finally, it is important to keep in mind that Africa 
must be given a chance to find solutions that concretely 
address  the  continent’s  situations  and  realities  by 
basing themselves on its population’s basic needs. Only 
through such mechanisms will we see achievements in 
Africa similar to those in other regions.
today 
Mr. Warraich (Pakistan): We thank the Secretary-
General  for  the  reports  on  the  agenda  items  under 
consideration 
and  A/68/222). 
We  congratulate  African  countries  on  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of the establishment of the Organization of 
African Unity, now the African Union, and on the tenth 
anniversary  of  its  unique  initiative,  the  African  Peer 
Review Mechanism.
(A/68/220 
Africa  is  undergoing  a  transformation.  Today 
Africa is determining its own destiny. The weak global 
economic performance notwithstanding, African gross 
domestic product grew by an average of 6.6 per cent in 
2012. Seven out of the 10 fastest-growing countries in 
the world are in Africa. The 18 per cent decline in global 
foreign  direct  investment  notwithstanding,  flows  to 
Africa increased in 2012. Higher trade growth in Africa 
as  a  whole,  despite  the  deceleration  in  international 
trade in 2012, is a notable exception.
Africa today is progressing through Africa-owned 
and  Africa-led  frameworks.  The  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  represents 
the  African 
leadership’s  vision  of 
the  continent’s  social  and 
economic progress. Projects such as the Trans-Sahara 
Highway  and  the  Trans-Sahara  Gas  Pipeline  are  a 
clear  demonstration  of  Africa’s  resolve  to  unlock  its 
immense  socioeconomic  development  potential.  The 
commitment and progress on achieving the budgetary 
allocation  targets  set  for  the  health  and  agriculture 
sectors  underline  Africa’s  seriousness  about  realizing 
the promise of a better future. 
Africa has taken up the challenges to its peace and 
security head on, and it is determined to succeed. It has 
established  a  solid  Peace  and  Security  Architecture. 
Successes  in  conflict  resolution  and  management  in 
Somalia, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire prove 
that Africa is forging ahead. The conduct of successful 
elections and progress towards greater political stability 
is  increasingly  replacing  the  narrative  of  conflict  in 
Africa.
Although  Africa’s 
to  opportunities 
is  commendable,  challenges  remain.  They  range 
from  bridging  the  gaps  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
security, 
employment  generation,  particularly  for  youth,  and 
mobilizing  financing  for  its  huge  infrastructure  and 
industrialization requirements.
to  ensuring 
response 
food 
Despite  the  progress  made,  health  challenges, 
including  malaria-related  ones,  continue  to  cause 
tragic  loss  of  life  in  Africa.  According  to  the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  funding  gap  for  malaria 
commodities and their distribution for Africa for 2013-
2015  is  $3.6  billion.  The  continued  and  strengthened 
international  support  to  Africa’s  development  efforts 
is  therefore  vital.  The  recent  decline  in  official 
development  assistance  and  in  aid-for-trade  indicates 
that pledges are not being translated into action.
International support is also essential so as to assist 
Africa to overcome setbacks to its peace and security.
Pakistan has a long-standing and abiding commitment 
to stability and progress in Africa. Our economic and 
trade  relations  with  Africa  are  growing.  In  2012  and 
2013  we  organized  “Africa  Shows”  in  Pakistan  to 
further  cement  our  economic  and  commercial  ties. 
We continue to work with partners from Africa in the 
economic, social and technical spheres in the context of 
South-South cooperation.
Since  1986,  under  Pakistan’s  special  technical 
assistance  programme  for  Africa,  hundreds  of  young 
African  professionals  received  training  in  Pakistan 
in  diverse  fields,  including  public  administration, 
management,  banking,  customs,  accounting  and 
diplomacy.
to 
Pakistani  peacekeepers  have  contributed 
peacekeeping,  peacemaking  and  peacebuilding 
in 
Africa.  More  than  132  of  our  peacekeepers  have  laid 
13-53026
23/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
down their lives, 119 of them in Africa. Today out of 
8,221  Pakistani  troops  in  six  peacekeeping  missions, 
8,075 are deployed in Africa.
We  will  continue  our  collaboration  with  Africa. 
The international community has started deliberations 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  wish  to 
underline that that agenda must also respond to Africa’s 
needs  and  priorities.  The  international  community’s 
commitment 
its 
aspirations is critical.
to  assisting  Africa 
in  realizing 
Pakistan wishes Africa success and glory. 
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this joint debate. 
Malaysia wishes to align itself with the statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Brunei 
Darussalam on behalf of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations. 
I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
reports 
item  63  (A/68/220  and 
for  his  comprehensive 
Secretary-General 
submitted  under  agenda 
A/68/222). 
Malaysia would also like to take this opportunity 
to  congratulate  our  African  friends  on  the  tenth 
anniversary of the African Peer Review Mechanism and 
its achievements so far. That celebration’s significance 
is made even greater by the fact that it coincides with 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  African  Union  and  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, which 
has been tasked with global advocacy and support for 
Africa’s development, in particular the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
Malaysia attaches great importance to its relations 
and cooperation with Africa, especially in the areas of 
peace  and  security,  trade,  investment  and  the  holistic 
development of the region. We truly believe that, in the 
framework  of  the  solidarity  involved  in  South-South 
cooperation, relations between Malaysia and countries 
in Africa have been enhanced through cooperation and 
mutual  respect.  As  is  reflected  in  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development’s  Global 
Investment Trends Monitor No. 12: The Rise of BRICS 
FDI  and  Africa,  issued  in  March,  Malaysia  is  Asia’s 
biggest  source  of  foreign  direct  investment  going  to 
Africa. In 2011, Malaysia was the third-biggest investor 
in  Africa,  after  the  United  States  and  France,  with  a 
total  of  $19.3  billion  in  investment  in  the  continent. 
Investment  from  the  Malaysian  private  sector  has  led 
to  the  creation  of  more  decent  jobs  and  the  transfer 
of  knowledge  and  technology,  and  has  contributed 
to  promoting  Africa  as  a  vibrant  world  investment 
destination.
While  we  welcome  the  progress  made  by  many 
African  countries,  Malaysia  also  acknowledges  the 
challenges  and  difficulties  that  some  of  them  face 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  2015.  The  renewed  call  for  accelerating 
the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  made  during  the 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  held  in  September 
(see A/68/PV.3) should be responded to by the United 
Nations development system and its developed partners. 
The decline in official development assistance for two 
years in a row has seriously undermined efforts to meet 
the  MDGs,  especially  for  least-developed  countries, 
including those in Africa. Malaysia wishes to reaffirm 
its  support  in  the  MDG  area  and  its  willingness  to 
continue to be an active dialogue partner with Africa 
within the framework of South-South cooperation.
Malaysia  cooperates  with  African  countries 
by  organizing  specific  technical  courses  under  the 
Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme (MTCP) 
and through triangular cooperation initiatives, such as 
the  MTCP-Japan  International  Cooperation  Agency-
Africa  collaboration.  Malaysia  has  also  launched 
specific  cooperation  programmes  with  African 
countries  through  dialogue  platforms,  which  include 
private-sector 
the  Malaysian 
South-South  Association  and  Malaysian  South-South 
Cooperation.  As  of  the  end  of  2012,  a  total  of  6,797 
participants  from  45  African  countries  had  benefited 
from  the  MTCP.  And  in  conjunction  with  the  sixty-
eighth  United  Nations  Day  celebration  held  in  Kuala 
Lumpur  on  24  October,  the  MTCP  received  the 
MDG  Global  Partnership  for  Development  award  in 
recognition  of  its  outstanding  contribution  to  United 
Nations development goals.
involvement 
through 
Malaysia remains committed to promoting South-
South cooperation in Africa. In that regard, our Prime 
Minister  led  the  Malaysian  delegation  to  the  Global 
Smart  Partnership  Dialogue  (GSPD)  2013,  held  in 
Dar es Salaam from 28 June to 1 July. The theme for 
GSPD  2013  was  “Leveraging  technology  for  Africa’s 
socioeconomic  transformation:  the  smart  partnership 
way”. The Dialogue was attended by 14 Heads of State 
and Government from the African and Asian regions. 
During  the  Dialogue,  Malaysia  shared  with  others  its 
24/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
new  policies  and  approach  for  achieving  its  vision  to 
become  a  fully  developed  nation  by  2020  —  namely, 
through  a  science-,  technology-  and  innovation-based 
policy,  Government  and  economic 
transformation 
programmes and the creation of a national key results 
area and key performance index. Malaysia was pleased 
to  participate  in  GSPD  2013  and  looks  forward  to 
participating in the next one, to be held in South Africa 
in 2014.
Malaysia  also  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  commitment 
to  hosting  a  future  smart  partnership  dialogue  within 
the framework of the Langkawi International Dialogue 
(LID),  at  a  date  to  be  announced.  Malaysia  believes 
the  Smart  Partnership  Dialogue  is  a  good  platform 
for  its  continuing  engagement  with  African  countries 
outside  the  bilateral  engagement  process.  Malaysia’s 
presence  during  the  Dialogue  in  Africa  and  our 
commitment to hosting the LID, which it has organized 
since  1995,  demonstrate  our  continuing  support  for 
Africa’s  economic  development.  The  Dialogue  has 
been successful in forging smart partnerships between 
Governments and the private sector in the South. Since 
its inception, a total of nine such dialogues have been 
held, aimed at fostering smart partnerships at all levels 
in  society,  engaging  the  political  leadership,  the  civil 
service,  business,  labour,  civil  society,  the  media  and 
the  population  at  large.  The  success  of  the  LID  has 
prompted  African  countries  to  organize  a  similar 
dialogue  in  southern  Africa,  namely,  the  Southern 
Africa International Dialogue.
Malaysia welcomes the progress made by African 
countries over the past 10 years in the implementation 
of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  an  initiative 
established  under  NEPAD.  It  has  succeeded 
in 
fulfilling  its  objectives  of  encouraging  and  building 
transformative  leadership  and  constructive  national 
dialogue among African countries through an inclusive 
and participatory self-assessment process. The APRM 
has successfully fostered policies and practices directed 
at  reaching  NEPAD’s  goals  of  political  stability,  high 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development,  and 
accelerated  subregional  and  continental  economic 
integration.  Although  it  is  a  voluntary  process,  the 
increasing  number  of  countries  participating  in  it 
indicates the importance that African countries attach 
to  strengthening  their  institutions  of  governance. 
Malaysia  hopes  that  more  African  countries  will 
participate  in  future,  thereby  further  enhancing  the 
development  of  Africa  as  a  whole.  We  hope  that  all 
such consolidated efforts will help our African friends 
to achieve their goals.
Turning  now  to  the  issue  of  malaria,  Malaysia 
welcomes  the  launching  of  a  road  map  on  shared 
responsibility  for  and  global  solidarity  on  AIDS, 
tuberculosis  and  malaria  response  in  Africa  for  the 
period 2012-2015. Malaysia has also had its fair share 
of  experience  with  the  disease  of  malaria.  However, 
we are pleased to report that we have achieved major 
success in virtually eliminating malaria from urban and 
other densely populated areas of the country. Over the 
past 50 years, the number of malaria cases in Malaysia 
has declined dramatically. In 1961, there were 243,470 
malaria  cases  in  Malaysia;  in  2010,  that  number  had 
fallen to 6,650. The continued decline is the result of 
several effective strategies adopted by the Government, 
beginning with a malaria-eradication programme in the 
1960s.
Malaysia  has  built  on  its  experience  and  past 
achievements in order to strengthen current efforts and 
secure further commitments to eliminating malaria by 
2020. To that end, a 2010-2020 national strategic plan 
for the elimination of malaria was formulated with the 
goal of eliminating locally acquired malaria by 2020. 
Malaysia is committed to eliminating malaria, as that 
would  bring  the  country’s  population  and  economy 
many benefits, such as reduced health-sector costs and 
absenteeism, and improved education, productivity and 
foreign investment levels. The elimination programme 
will  also  ensure  equality,  since  its  activities  must 
be  implemented  at  all  levels  so  as  to  include  the 
impoverished, marginalized and vulnerable.
To conclude, Malaysia recognizes that, while a lot 
has been achieved, there is still more work required to 
halt and reverse that epidemic disease. We are prepared 
to share our national experience in that regard. 
Mr.  Kyaw  Tin  (Myanmar):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation would like to express its appreciation to the 
Secretary-General for his insightful and comprehensive 
reports  on  the  agenda  items  under  consideration 
(A/68/220 and A/68/222). 
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Brunei Darussalam on behalf 
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 
The year 2013 is a special year for the development 
of Africa, since it coincides with the tenth anniversary 
of  the  introduction  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
13-53026
25/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
Mechanism and the fiftieth anniversary of the founding 
of the Organization of African Unity, now the African 
Union. We welcome the designation of Africa Week and 
the holding of commemorative activities at the United 
Nations during this week highlighting the progress in 
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD).  We  are  pleased  to  witness 
the  remarkable  progress  achieved  by  many  African 
countries  in  recent  years,  which  can  be  substantially 
attributed  to  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.  Despite 
global  economic  and  financial  uncertainty,  Africa’s 
economic  growth  has  been  relatively  positive  as  a 
result of its continued improvements in macroeconomic 
policy  management,  structural 
the 
production and export of commodities. It is gratifying 
to  note  that  many  African  countries  are  among  the 
world’s fastest-growing economies and fewer Africans 
suffer from extreme poverty. We are also pleased that 
Africa has achieved great progress on the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
reforms  and 
Despite  all  those  positive  developments,  Africa 
still faces many challenges. Millions of Africans still 
lack  jobs,  health  care  and  food.  Many  countries  will 
have difficulties meeting the MDGs by 2015. Economic 
uncertainty,  political  instability,  natural  disasters  and 
a  decline  in  development  assistance  have  hampered 
the efforts of some African countries to develop their 
economies. It is therefore essential that NEPAD’s efforts 
continue  to  address  those  challenges,  particularly 
by  prioritizing  and  mainstreaming  issues  of  health, 
education and gender in their agendas.
Peace,  stability  and  the  prevalence  of  the  rule 
of  law  are  prerequisites  for  sustainable  economic 
development.  It  is  encouraging  to  learn  that  the 
majority of African countries have been experiencing 
stability.  We  recognize  and  commend  the  efforts 
made  by  the  African  Union  and  regional  economic 
communities  to  undertake  conflict-prevention  and 
mediation  initiatives,  such  as  finalizing  a  continental 
conflict-prevention framework and developing support 
structures  for  mediation  and  conflict  resolution.  We 
wish,  therefore,  to  add  our  voice  to  those  urging  the 
international community, including the United Nations, 
to  enhance  their  support  to  and  cooperation  with  the 
African Union and regional economic communities for 
conflict  prevention,  resolution  and  mediation  within 
the  framework  of  the  African  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture  and  the  United  Nations  Framework  for 
the  Ten-Year  Capacity-Building  Programme  for  the 
African Union. 
(APRM) 
increasingly  positive 
We  welcome  the  role  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism 
in  encouraging  principled 
leadership and constructive national dialogue, thereby 
opening up more room for citizens in decision-making. 
The 
towards  broader 
democratic  practices  in  Africa  is  also  commendable. 
According to the report of the Secretary-General, there 
were altogether 18 elections held in 2012, and another 
17 are expected to be held in 2013. The regularity and 
frequency  of  elections  have  been  fostering  greater 
stability in the region in recent decades. 
trend 
The  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD and the success of the APRM show the good 
leadership and capacity of African leaders to bring more 
peace and development to their continent. At the same 
time, a strengthened and sustained global partnership 
will  still  play  a  significant  role  in  bringing  about 
peace,  stability  and  development  in  African  nations. 
In  that  respect,  it  is  worrying  to  see  that  assistance 
from  development  partners  is  declining.  Although 
development  partners  have  committed 
themselves 
to  help  meet  Africa’s  development  needs,  including 
through  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  priorities, 
official  development  assistance  to  Africa  dropped 
from  more  than  $50  billion  to  $43  billion  in  recent 
years. We hope that the success achieved in all areas of 
NEPAD implementation and other ongoing governance 
and  structural  transformations  will  help  convince 
development partners to honour their commitments.
We  are  confident  that,  with  sustained  external 
financial  support,  the  strong  determination  of  the 
Governments  and  peoples  of  Africa  and  sound 
economic management, the implementation of NEPAD 
will achieve greater progress and contribute to Africa’s 
efforts  to  meet  the  MDGs.  It  is  important  for  the 
international  community,  United  Nations  agencies 
and  development  partners  to  enhance  their  assistance 
to  the  African  people  in  order  to  ensure  that  Africa’s 
priorities and needs are fully reflected in the post-2015 
development agenda.
to 
reiterate 
As  one  of  the  organizers  of  the  historic  Bandung 
Conference,  Myanmar  wishes 
the 
importance  it  attaches  to  the  spirit  of  friendship  and 
solidarity with Africa. Like many countries in Africa, 
Myanmar is a country in a process of rapid transition. 
In parallel with our efforts to promote peace, stability 
and  national  reconciliation,  we  have  opened  up 
our  economy  with  bold  economic  reforms  and  the 
liberalization  of  economic  policies.  The  new  political 
26/28 
13-53026
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.36
and  economic  climate  in  Myanmar  has  opened  up 
greater opportunities and potential for promoting trade 
and economic relations with our African brothers. 
In concluding, my delegation would like to reiterate 
Myanmar’s  solidarity  with  and  strong  support  for  the 
efforts  of  the  African  countries  to  achieve  greater 
progress  in  implementing  the  NEPAD  agenda  for  the 
development of the African peoples.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 2011 (XX), of 11 October 1965, and decision 
56/475, of 15 August 2002, I now call on the observer 
for the African Union.
Mr.  Mayaki  (African  Union):  This  year  marks 
the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization of African 
Unity and the tenth anniversary of two African Union 
flagship  programmes  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD):  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  and  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP). 
NEPAD  has  played  a  critical  role  in  promoting 
democracy  and  good  governance  with  the  launch  of 
the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), in 2003. 
The APRM is a bold, unique and innovative approach 
to governance, designed and implemented by Africans 
for  Africans.  Through  the  APRM,  African  countries 
diagnose governance deficiencies, share best practices 
and  commit  to  implementing  solutions.  That  includes 
implementing  transparent,  predictable  and  credible 
public  policies 
through  national  programmes  of 
action. As a result, APRM findings have supported the 
institutionalization of domestic accountability, citizen 
empowerment  and  the  improved  delivery  of  services, 
thereby opening up political space for good governance. 
Although it is a voluntary mechanism, membership has 
steadily increased, to the current number of 33 African 
countries, which shows the significant progress in the 
deepening of the peer-review process. 
The  year  2013  also  marks  the  tenth  anniversary 
the  adoption  of 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
of 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  Over  the  past 
decade,  agriculture  and  food  security  have  remained 
top  priorities  for  the  African  Union  and  its  NEPAD 
Programme. Africa recently endorsed the “Sustaining 
CAADP Momentum” consultative process as the main 
framework for engagement, with the declaration of the 
year  2014  as  the  African  Union  Year  for  Agriculture, 
Food Security and Nutrition. As of today, 50 countries 
have  engaged 
interventions, 
in  CAADP-related 
while  28  African  countries  have  developed  national 
agriculture  and  food-security  investment  plans  with 
technical support provided by the NEPAD Agency. In 
mobilizing  the  necessary  global  partnership  support 
for  the  CAADP,  NEPAD  is  engaging  in  the  Scaling-
Up  Nutrition  initiative  and  the  Group  of  Eight’s  New 
Alliance  for  Food  Security  and  Nutrition  to  achieve 
Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 1. 
The future of African agriculture is brighter than 
it  was  10  years  ago,  but  a  lot  still  needs  to  be  done. 
In collaboration with the African Union Commission, 
regional  economic  communities  and  development 
partners,  we  recently  launched  the  NEPAD  Gender, 
Climate  Change,  Agriculture  and  Food  Nutrition 
Programmes and the NEPAD Rural Futures Programme. 
Those  initiatives  specifically  support  women  farmers 
and young entrepreneurs  so as to enhance knowledge 
and skills and foster rural transformation. 
Africa  is  at  a  critical  juncture  in  its  quest  for 
development effectiveness. Without a doubt, Africa has 
been  making  tangible  economic  progress.  However, 
we  must  address  increasing  social  inequalities  and 
the urgent need to lift about 400 million people out of 
poverty.  In  response,  we  must  implement  appropriate 
strategies  to  provide  employment  for  an  additional 
215  million  young  men  and  women  in  the  next  10 
years.  Importantly,  a  major  aspect  of  that  strategy  is 
to  promote  value  addition  and  sustainable  industrial 
development as a means to enhance growth, job creation 
and economic transformation. 
With  less  than  1,000  days  remaining  before  the 
2015  deadline,  Africa  has  made  remarkable  progress 
towards attaining the Millennium Development Goals. 
However,  challenges  remain.  Based  on  the  decision 
of  African  leaders,  multistakeholder  consultations 
are  being  conducted  aimed  at  synthesizing  African 
priorities  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  To 
that end, a bold African common position is evolving 
within the High-level Committee of African Heads of 
State and Government on the Post-2015 Agenda. That is 
taking place in cooperation with the African Group at 
the United Nations and the African Union. We therefore 
appeal  for  the  common  position,  when  finalized,  to 
be  taken  into  consideration  in  framing  the  post-2015 
agenda and the sustainable development goals, bearing 
in  mind  Africa’s  special  needs.  NEPAD  is  ready  to 
fully engage in monitoring the post-2015 agenda on the 
continent. 
13-53026
27/28
A/68/PV.36 
25/10/2013
For  Africa  to  truly  become  the  next  growth  pole, 
the  mobilization  and  effective  utilization  of  our  own 
resources  is  paramount.  In  that  equation,  private  and 
public partnerships will advance the ideals of Africa’s 
transformation.  African 
leaders  have  championed 
the  cause  as  a  compelling  agenda  to  energize  the 
ownership of the continent’s development. NEPAD has 
completed a comprehensive study on domestic resource 
mobilization, which was conducted in partnership with 
the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
African Development Bank. Curtailing illicit financial 
flows from Africa is also a top priority. 
The late Prime Minister of Ethiopia Meles Zenawi, 
who chaired NEPAD for six years, once stated, 
“Without the private sector, there is no development. 
Our policy is to have rapid and equitable growth, 
but  you  cannot  have  that  without  a  clear  division 
of labour in partnership with the public and private 
sectors.” 
Overall,  regional  integration  remains  the  pathway 
to  equitable  and  inclusive  growth  on  an  accelerated 
economic  scale.  NEPAD  continues 
to  strongly 
collaborate  with  the  regional  economic  communities, 
which  are  the  catalysts  for  the  implementation  of 
regional projects. 
Permit  me  also  to  recall  the  words  of  Mr.  Macky 
Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal and current 
Chairperson  of  the  NEPAD  Heads  of  State  and 
Government Orientation Committee: 
“The  world  has  changed;  Africa  has  also 
changed.  Let  us  therefore  change  our  paradigms 
and visions” (A/68/PV.8, p. 16). 
It is of particular significance that the international 
community continues to be actively engaged in Africa’s 
peace  and  development  efforts.  Indeed,  partnership 
with  Africa  should  truly  reflect  and  support  our 
transformative  ambitions.  In  that  context,  NEPAD 
commends the outcomes of the fifth Tokyo International 
Conference on African Development (TICAD V), which 
took place in June. TICAD V represented an important 
milestone  in  Africa-Japan  cooperation.  Furthermore, 
we applaud the quality of the development partnership 
with  the  Governments  of  Germany,  Norway,  Sweden, 
Spain, the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States 
of  America,  France  and  the  European  Union,  inter 
alia. NEPAD appreciates the continued support for the 
implementation of its continental sector policy strategies. 
We equally commend Africa’s strong partnerships with 
the BRICS countries of Brazil, Russia, India, China and 
South Africa, and with the Group of 20, and welcome 
the increasing number of opportunities for South-South 
and triangular cooperation. 
Before concluding, I wish to particularly commend 
the  sound  collaboration  between  the  NEPAD  Agency 
and  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa, 
headed by Under-Secretary-General Maged Abdelaziz. 
We  fully  support  resolution  67/294,  which  calls  for 
strengthening  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  to 
enable  it  to  effectively  fulfil  its  mandate,  including 
monitoring  and  reporting  on  progress  related  to 
meeting  the  special  needs  of  Africa  and  coordinating 
the  Inter-Agency  Task  Force  on  Africa.  It  is  essential 
that the Office continue to play its role in supporting 
NEPAD at the United Nations, particularly with respect 
to  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  the 
acceleration of the Millennium Development Goals and 
the post-2015 development agenda. 
I  cannot  end  this  statement  without  commending 
the  leadership  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon. 
In  particular,  we  appreciate  his  commitment  to  the 
continent.  As  he  stated  at  the  commencement  of  the 
2013 Africa-NEPAD Week, 
“What APRM does for governance, NEPAD does for 
development. Together they help Africa to advance 
along  the  path  of  democracy  and  development  to 
benefit the continent’s people”. 
(spoke in French)
We  are  convinced  that  the  second  decade  of  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD,  the  landmark  African 
Union  programme,  as  well  as  the  implementation  of 
the African Peer Review Mechanism, a framework for 
governance in Africa, will benefit from the support of 
all States Members of the United Nations.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28/28 
13-53026
