United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
41st plenary meeting
Thursday, 31 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.41
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Picco (Monaco), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 72
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of  
Justice (A/68/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/349)
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  It 
is  my  great  honour  to  welcome  to  United  Nations 
Headquarters  His  Excellency  Peter  Tomka,  President 
of the International Court of Justice, and to invite him 
to take the floor.
Mr. Tomka, President of the International Court of 
Justice (spoke in French): It is a great pleasure for me to 
introduce the report on the activities of the International 
Court  of  the  Justice  (A/68/4)  to  the  General  Assembly 
today.  The  President  of  the  Assembly  at  the  current 
session demonstrated his competent leadership two years 
ago, when he so brilliantly chaired the Assembly’s Legal 
Committee (Sixth Committee).
(spoke in English):
I  would  like  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  for 
continuing  the  practice  of  allowing  the  President  of 
the  Court  to  present  a  review  of  its  judicial  activities 
over  the  previous  judicial  year.  This  practice  reflects 
the interest in and support for the Court shown by the 
General Assembly.
During the past 12 months, the Court has continued 
to fulfil its role as the forum of choice of the international 
community  of  States  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
every  kind  of  international  dispute  over  which  it  has 
jurisdiction. As illustrated in the report that I have the 
honour to introduce to the Assembly today, the Court 
has made every effort to meet the expectations of the 
parties appearing before it in a timely manner. It should 
be emphasized once again in that regard that, since the 
Court has been able to clear its backlog of cases, States 
thinking  of  submitting  cases  to  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  can  be  confident  that  as 
soon as they have completed their written exchanges, 
the Court will move to the hearings stage without delay.
During  the  period  under  review,  as  many  as 
11  contentious  cases  were  pending  before  the  Court, 
which  held  public  hearings  in  the  following  three  in 
turn:  the  case  concerning  Maritime  Dispute  (Peru  v. 
Chile),  the  request  for  interpretation  of  the  Judgment 
of  15  June  1962  in  the  case  concerning  Temple  of 
Preah  Vihear  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand),  and  the  case 
concerning  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic  (Australia  v. 
Japan:  New  Zealand  intervening).  The  Court  is  now 
deliberating in two of those cases. In the third, having 
completed its work, the Court will deliver its judgment 
in  early  November.  During  the  reporting  period, 
the  Court  also  delivered  two  judgments  —  the  first 
in  Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute  (Nicaragua  v. 
Colombia) and the second in Frontier Dispute (Burkina 
Faso/Niger) — and six orders.
As  is  traditional,  I  shall  now  report  briefly  on 
the  main  decisions  of  the  Court  from  the  past  year. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-53979 (E)
*1353979*
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
to 
turning 
I  shall  deal  first  with  the  judgment  delivered  in  the 
case  concerning  Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia),  before 
the 
judgment  rendered  in  the  case  concerning  Frontier 
Dispute (Burkina Faso/Niger) and then to certain orders 
issued in the cases concerning Whaling in the Antarctic 
(Australia v. Japan), Certain Activities carried out by 
Nicaragua in the Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua)
and Construction of a Road in Costa Rica along the San 
Juan  River  (Nicaragua  v.  Costa  Rica).  Lastly,  I  shall 
refer  to  an  order  made  in  the  case  concerning  Aerial 
Herbicide Spraying (Ecuador v. Colombia).
The  first  judgment  delivered  by  the  Court  during 
the  period  under  review  was  given  on  19  November 
2012, in the case concerning Territorial and Maritime 
Dispute  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia).  The  proceedings 
had been instituted by Nicaragua against Colombia in 
respect of a dispute concerning “a group of related legal 
issues subsisting” between the two States “concerning 
title  to  territory  and  maritime  delimitation”  in  the 
western Caribbean. A first decision was adopted in the 
case on 13 December 2007, since the Court had been 
called upon to rule on preliminary objections raised by 
Colombia. At that time, the Court found that the issue of 
sovereignty over certain islands — namely, those of San 
Andrés,  Providencia  and  Santa  Catalina  —  had  been 
settled, within the meaning of article VI of the Pact of 
Bogotá, by a treaty concluded between Nicaragua and 
Colombia in 1928, and that therefore the Court had no 
jurisdiction to rule on that point.
However,  it  considered  that  it  had  jurisdiction  to 
adjudicate  the  dispute  concerning  sovereignty  over 
the  other  maritime  features  claimed  by  the  parties, 
as  well  as  the  dispute  concerning  the  delimitation  of 
the  maritime  spaces  appertaining  to  each  of  them  in 
the  region.  In  particular,  the  Court  considered  that 
the  82nd  meridian,  which  under  the  1930  Protocol  of 
Exchange of Ratifications of the 1928 Treaty “fixes the 
western limit of the San Andrés Archipelago”, did not 
mark the maritime boundary between the two States, as 
originally claimed by Colombia.
In  its  judgment  of  19  November  2012,  the  Court 
first  dealt  with  the  question  of  sovereignty  over  the 
maritime features claimed by Nicaragua and Colombia. 
After considering not only the 1928 agreement between 
the  two  parties  and  various  historical  documents,  but 
also  the  arguments  put  forward  on  the  basis  of  uti 
possidetis  juris  and  effectivités,  the  Court  found  that 
for  many  decades  Colombia  had  acted  continuously 
and  consistently  à  titre  de  souverain  in  respect  of 
the  maritime  features  in  dispute.  Also  taking  into 
account  the  practice  of  third  States  and  the  existing 
maps  —  while  emphasizing  that  the  latter  are  not 
evidence  of  sovereignty  —  the  Court  concluded  that 
Colombia,  and  not  Nicaragua,  has  sovereignty  over 
those features.
With  that  issue  resolved,  the  Court  addressed 
Nicaragua’s  request  asking  it  to  delimit  a  continental 
shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles.  After  finding  that 
request  to  be  admissible,  the  Court  examined  the 
merits.  In  that  regard,  it  recalled  its  statement  in  its 
2007  judgment  in  the  case  concerning  the  Territorial 
and  Maritime  Dispute  between  Nicaragua  and 
Honduras  in  the  Caribbean  Sea,  namely,  that  “any 
claim of continental shelf rights beyond 200 miles” by 
a State party to the 1982 Convention on the Law of the 
Sea (UNCLOS) “must be in accordance with article 76 
of UNCLOS and reviewed by the Commission on the 
Limits of the Continental Shelf”.
The Court made it clear that, given the object and 
purpose  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  as 
stipulated in its Preamble, the fact that Colombia is not a 
party thereto did not relieve Nicaragua of its obligations 
under  article  76  of  that  instrument.  The  Court  noted 
that Nicaragua had submitted to the Commission only 
preliminary  information,  which  fell  short  of  meeting 
the requirements for the Commission to be able to make 
a  recommendation.  As  the  Court  was  not  presented 
with any further information, it found that, in the case 
in question, Nicaragua had not established that it had a 
continental margin that extended far enough to overlap 
with  Colombia’s  200-nautical-mile  entitlement  to  the 
continental shelf, measured from Colombia’s mainland 
coast.  The  Court  thus  declared  that  it  was  not  in  a 
position to delimit the boundary between the extended 
continental  shelf  claimed  by  Nicaragua  and 
the 
continental shelf of Colombia, and therefore concluded 
that Nicaragua’s claim could not be upheld.
In the light of that decision, the Court considered 
what  maritime  delimitation  should  be  effected.  It 
observed  that  in  its  final  submissions,  Nicaragua  had 
requested that the Court not only delimit the continental 
shelf between the mainland coasts of the two parties, but 
also adjudge and declare that the islands of San Andrés 
and Providencia and Santa Catalina should be enclaved 
and  accorded  a  maritime  entitlement  of  12  nautical 
miles, and that the equitable solution for any cay that 
might be found on the Colombian side was to delimit 
2/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
a maritime boundary by drawing a three-nautical-mile 
enclave around it. The Court also noted that Colombia, 
for its part, had requested that the delimitation should 
be effected by a single maritime boundary, constructed 
as a median line between Nicaraguan fringing islands 
and the islands of the San Andrés Archipelago.
decision 
The  Court  concluded  that  notwithstanding  its 
aforementioned 
regarding  Nicaragua’s 
request  that  it  delimit  an  extended  continental  shelf, 
it  was  still  called  on  to  effect  a  delimitation  between 
the  overlapping  maritime  entitlements  of  Colombia, 
based  on  its  sovereignty  over  the  islands  forming  the 
San  Andrés  Archipelago,  and  Nicaragua,  within  200 
nautical miles of the Nicaraguan coast. To that end, it 
applied its standard methodology, a method that it set 
out  clearly  in  its  seminal  2009  judgment  in  the  case 
concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Black  Sea 
(Romania v. Ukraine), a methodology that consists of 
three stages.
The  Court  first  determines  base  points  and 
constructs  a  provisional  median  line  between  the 
relevant  coasts  of  the  parties,  namely,  those  coasts 
whose  projections  overlap.  In  the  case  at  hand,  the 
Court found that for Nicaragua the relevant coast was 
its whole coast projecting into the area where the claims 
of the two parties overlap. Since the mainland coast of 
Colombia  does  not  generate  any  entitlement  in  that 
area, the Court considered that it could not be regarded 
as part of the relevant coast for the purposes of the case. 
The Court found that the relevant Colombian coast was 
confined to the coasts of the islands under Colombian 
sovereignty. Since the area of the overlapping claims of 
the parties extended well to the east of the Colombian 
islands,  the  Court  considered  that  it  was  the  entire 
coastline  of  those  islands,  not  merely  the  west-facing 
coasts, that had to be taken into account.
In  the  second  stage,  the  Court  considers  whether 
there are any relevant circumstances that may call for 
an adjustment or shift of the provisional line so as to 
achieve an equitable result. In the present case, the Court 
noted that the substantial disparity between the relevant 
coast of the Colombian islands and that of Nicaragua, 
a ratio of approximately 1 to 8.2 — that is, the coast of 
Nicaragua being more than eight times longer than that 
of Colombia — as well as the need to avoid cutting off 
either  party  from  the  maritime  spaces  into  which  its 
coasts project, were both relevant circumstances. The 
Court  further  observed  that  while  legitimate  security 
considerations had to be borne in mind in determining 
what adjustment to make to the provisional line or in 
what  way  that  line  should  be  shifted,  the  conduct  of 
the  parties,  issues  of  access  to  natural  resources  and 
delimitations  already  effected  in  the  area  were  not 
relevant circumstances in the case.
With  respect  to  the  latter  two  points,  the  Court 
first recalled that although both parties had raised the 
question of equitable access to natural resources, neither 
had  offered  evidence  of  particular  circumstances  that 
should be treated as relevant. It considered that the case 
did  not  present  issues  of  access  to  natural  resources 
so exceptional as to warrant the Court’s treating them 
as a relevant consideration. In regard to delimitations 
already  effected  in  the  area,  the  Court  then  indicated 
that the agreements concluded by Colombia with some 
other  States  in  the  region  were  without  legal  effect 
with regard to Nicaragua, in accordance with the well-
established principle of res inter alios acta. In the light 
of all those findings, the Court proceeded to shift the 
provisional median line.
In  the  third  stage,  the  Court  ascertains  whether 
the effect of the line, once it has been shifted, is that 
the maritime areas attributed to each of the parties in 
the  relevant  zone  —  that  is  to  say,  the  portion  of  the 
maritime area in which the parties’ claims overlap — are 
markedly disproportionate to their respective relevant 
coasts. In the case in question, the Court noted that the 
boundary  line  had  the  effect  of  dividing  the  relevant 
zone  between  the  parties  in  a  ratio  of  approximately 
1:3.44 in Nicaragua’s favour. As indicated previously, 
since  the  ratio  between  the  relevant  coasts  was 
approximately 1:8.2, the question arose as to whether, 
given the circumstances of the case, that disproportion 
was so great as to render the result inequitable.
The  Court  concluded  that,  taking  account  of  all 
the  circumstances  of  the  case,  the  result  achieved 
by  the  maritime  delimitation  did  not  entail  such 
disproportionality  as  to  create  an  inequitable  result. 
Accordingly, it unanimously fixed the definitive course 
of  the  boundary  between  Nicaragua  and  Colombia, 
a  decision  that  included  the  judges  ad  hoc  chosen  by 
Nicaragua and Colombia, respectively. I regret that it was 
not possible to display here some of the maps depicting 
those boundaries, as that would have facilitated better 
understanding of the Court’s judgment and visualizing 
the final result.
Finally,  the  Court  considered  that  Nicaragua’s 
request, asking it to adjudge and declare that
13-53979
3/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
“Colombia [wa]s not acting in accordance with her 
obligations  under  international  law  by  stopping 
and  otherwise  hindering  [it]  from  accessing  and 
disposing of her natural resources to the east of the 
82nd meridian”
was  unfounded  in  the  context  of  the  proceedings 
regarding a maritime boundary that had not been settled 
prior to the decision of the Court.
It should be stressed that, in accordance with Article 
59 of the Statute of the Court, the Court’s judgment in 
the case has no binding force except between the parties 
and  in  respect  of  that  particular  case.  This  judgment 
addresses only Nicaragua’s rights as against Colombia 
and vice versa; it is without prejudice to any claim by 
a  third  State  or  any  claim  that  either  party  may  have 
against a third State. Moreover, as it expressly recalled 
in this decision and in the judgments rendered on 4 May 
2011 in respect of the applications by Costa Rica and 
Honduras for permission to intervene, the Court always 
takes care not to draw a boundary line that extends into 
areas where the rights of third States may be affected.
(spoke in French)
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  delivered 
a  second  judgment,  on  16  April  2013,  in  the  case 
concerning the Frontier Dispute (Burkina Faso/Niger). 
The proceedings had been instituted in July 2010 by a 
special agreement under which the two parties agreed 
to  submit  to  the  Court  the  frontier  dispute  between 
them concerning a section of their common boundary.
The  frontier  between  Burkina  Faso  and  Niger 
consists  of  three  main  sectors.  The  northern  sector, 
which  runs  from  the  heights  of  N’Gouma  to  the 
astronomic  marker  of  Tong-Tong,  and  the  southern 
sector,  which  runs  from  the  beginning  of  the  Botou 
bend to the River Mekrou, had been demarcated by a 
joint  commission  before  the  case  was  brought.  There 
remained  to  be  delimited  only  the  central  sector, 
running  from  the  Tong-Tong  astronomic  marker  to 
the beginning of the Botou bend. However, under the 
special  agreement,  the  Court  was  asked  not  only  to 
determine the course of the frontier between Burkina 
Faso and Niger in the central sector, but also to place on 
record the parties’ agreement on the results of the work 
of the Joint Technical Commission on Demarcation.
In 
its 
judgment, 
the  Court  examined,  as  a 
preliminary issue, a request by Burkina Faso regarding 
the  two  sectors  of  the  frontier  that  were  already 
demarcated.  In  particular,  Burkina  Faso  asked  the 
Court  to  include  their  course  in  the  operative  part  of 
its judgment, so that the parties would be bound in that 
respect in the same way that they would be bound with 
regard to the frontier line in the central sector.
The Court first recalled that, when it is seized on the 
basis of a special agreement, any request made by a party 
in its final submissions can fall within the jurisdiction 
of the Court only if it remains within the limits defined 
by  the  provisions  of  that  special  agreement.  In  this 
case,  however,  the  Court  considered  that  the  request 
made by Burkina Faso did not correspond to the terms 
of the special agreement, since Burkina Faso was not 
requesting it to place on record the parties’ agreement 
regarding  the  delimitation  of  the  frontier  in  the  two 
demarcated  sectors,  but  rather  to  delimit  itself  the 
frontier  according  to  a  line  that  corresponded  to  the 
conclusions of the Joint Technical Commission.
The Court pointed out that, while it has the power 
to  interpret  the  final  submissions  of  the  parties  in 
such a way as to maintain them within the limits of its 
jurisdiction, that is not sufficient for it to entertain such 
a request; it would still have to be verified that the object 
of that request falls within the Court’s judicial function, 
which is to decide in accordance with international law 
such disputes as are submitted to it. In this case, neither 
of  the  parties  had  ever  claimed  that  a  dispute  existed 
between  them  concerning  the  delimitation  of  the 
frontier in the two sectors in question on the date when 
the proceedings were instituted, nor, indeed, that such 
a  dispute  had  subsequently  arisen.  Accordingly,  the 
Court considered that Burkina Faso’s request exceeded 
the limits of its judicial function.
That  being  established,  the  Court  addressed  the 
question  of  the  course  of  the  section  of  the  frontier 
remaining  in  dispute.  To  that  end,  it  first  determined 
the applicable law.
After  recalling  that  article  6  of  the  special 
agreement highlighted the principle of the intangibility 
of  boundaries  inherited  from  colonization  and  the 
Agreement between the two States of 28 March 1987, the 
Court noted that the latter instrument specified the acts 
and  documents  of  the  French  colonial  administration 
that must be used to determine the delimitation line that 
existed  when  the  two  countries  gained  independence.
Those acts and documents were the Arrêté of 31 August 
1927  adopted  by  the  Governor-General  ad  interim  of 
French West Africa with a view to fixing the boundaries 
of the colonies of Upper Volta and Niger, as clarified 
by  its  Erratum  of  5  October  1927.  The  Court  further 
4/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
observed  that  the  1987  Agreement  provided  for  the 
possibility of the Arrêté and Erratum not sufficing and 
established  that,  in  that  event,  the  course  should  be 
that shown on the 1:200,000-scale map of the Institut 
géographique national de France, 1960 edition. It was 
therefore in the light of those elements that the Court 
determined the course of the frontier between the Tong-
Tong astronomic marker and the beginning of the Botou 
bend. I should like to point out that that judgment was 
adopted  unanimously,  including  by  the  ad  hoc  judges 
chosen by Burkina Faso and Niger, respectively.
Once  that  course  had  been  established,  the  Court 
was lastly required to rule on one final request of the 
parties,  which  had  asked  it  to  nominate  three  neutral 
experts  to  assist  them  in  the  demarcation  of  their 
frontier  in  the  area  in  dispute.  The  Court  did  so  by 
means of an order dated 12 July 2013.
As  I  have  already  mentioned,  during  the  period 
under  review  the  Court  also  handed  down  five  other 
orders. I shall now refer to them briefly in chronological 
order.
the  proceedings  before 
The  first  order  was  handed  down  on  6  February 
2013 in the case concerning Whaling in the Antarctic 
(Australia  v.  Japan:  New  Zealand  intervening).  That 
order  followed  a  declaration  whereby  New  Zealand 
availed itself of the right conferred on it by Article 63, 
paragraph 2, of the Statute to intervene as a non-party 
in 
the  Court.  According 
to  that  provision,  whenever  the  interpretation  of  a 
convention  is  in  question,  States  that  are  not  parties 
to  the  proceedings  but  are  parties  to  that  convention 
may intervene for the sole purpose of addressing to the 
Court their observations on the interpretation of the said 
convention.  The  interpretation  given  by  the  Court  is 
then binding upon them. New Zealand’s declaration of 
intervention was directed to questions of interpretation 
arising in the case, relating in particular to article VIII, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Regulation  of  Whaling,  which  lies  at  the  heart  of  the 
dispute between Australia and Japan.
In its decision, the Court pointed out that the fact 
that  intervention  under  Article  63  of  the  Statute  is 
based on a right is not sufficient for the submission of 
a “declaration” to that end to confer ipso facto on the 
declarant  State  the  status  of  intervener,  and  that  such 
right  to  intervene  exists  only  when  the  declaration 
concerned falls within the provisions of Article 63 of the 
Statute. After considering whether it fell within those 
provisions and whether it met the requirements set out 
in article 82 of the Rules of Court, the Court concluded 
that  New  Zealand’s  declaration  of  intervention  was 
admissible.
Accordingly,  the  Court  authorized  New  Zealand 
to submit written and oral observations on the subject-
matter of its intervention, and the Parties to comment 
on those observations. New Zealand participated in the 
hearings  on  the  merits  held  in  the  case  by  the  Court 
between 26 June and 16 July 2013.
Subsequently, the Court handed down four orders 
in  two  cases  between  Costa  Rica  and  Nicaragua, 
namely the case concerning Certain Activities carried 
out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v. 
Nicaragua)  and  the  case  concerning  Construction 
of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San  Juan  River 
(Nicaragua v. Costa Rica).
First  of  all,  the  Court,  in  conformity  with  the 
principle of the sound administration of justice and with 
the need for judicial economy, considered it appropriate 
to join the proceedings in the two cases by two separate 
orders dated 17 April 2013.
The Court then handed down an order on 18 April 
2013  regarding  four  counter-claims  submitted  by 
Nicaragua  in  its  counter-memorial  filed  in  the  case 
concerning Certain Activities carried out by Nicaragua 
in the Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua). The Court 
first found, unanimously, that there was no need for it 
to adjudicate on the admissibility of Nicaragua’s first 
counter-claim,  since  that  claim  had  become  without 
object by reason of the fact that the proceedings in the 
Costa Rica v. Nicaragua and Nicaragua v. Costa Rica
cases had been joined by the aforementioned order.
The  Court  further  found,  unanimously,  that  the 
second  and  third  counter-claims,  which  concerned, 
respectively,  the  status  of  the  Bay  of  San  Juan  del 
Norte and the right to free navigation on the Colorado 
River, were inadmissible as such and did not form part 
of  the  current  proceedings,  since  there  was  no  direct 
connection,  either  in  fact  or  in  law,  between  those 
claims  and  the  principal  claims  of  Costa  Rica.  The 
Court  lastly  found,  unanimously,  that  there  was  no 
need for it to entertain the fourth counter-claim, which 
related  to  alleged  breaches  of  the  order  indicating 
provisional  measures  made  by  the  Court  on  8  March 
2011.  It  specified  that  the  question  of  compliance  by 
both  parties  with  the  provisional  measures  indicated 
in  the  case  might  be  considered  by  the  Court  in  the 
principal  proceedings,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not 
13-53979
5/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
the  respondent  State  raised  that  issue  by  way  of  a 
counter-claim.
In  the  same  cases,  which  are  now  joined,  the 
Court  was  lastly  called  upon  to  rule  on  two  requests, 
submitted respectively by Costa Rica in late May 2013, 
and Nicaragua in mid-June 2013, for the modification 
of  the  order  of  8  March  2011  indicating  provisional 
measures  in  the  case  concerning  Certain  Activities 
carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica v. Nicaragua). 
By an order dated 16 July 2013, the Court stated that 
the same general conditions governed the modification 
and  indication  of  provisional  measures,  and  that  the 
circumstances,  as  they  then  presented  themselves  to 
the Court, were not such as to require the exercise of 
its power to modify the measures indicated in its order 
of  8  March  2011.  The  Court  nevertheless  reaffirmed 
those  measures,  and  in  particular  the  requirement 
that the parties should “refrain from any action which 
might aggravate or extend the dispute before the Court 
or  make  it  more  difficult  to  resolve”,  noting  that  the 
actions thus referred to could consist of either acts or 
omissions.
I would also like to mention that, by an order which 
I  made  on  13  September  2013,  the  case  concerning 
Aerial Herbicide Spraying (Ecuador v. Colombia) was 
removed from the Court’s list at the request of Ecuador. 
The  hearings  in  that  case  had  been  scheduled  to  take 
place between 30 September and 18 October of this year. 
By a letter dated 12 September 2013, Ecuador, referring 
to article 89 of the Rules of Court and to an agreement 
between  the  parties  dated  9  September  2013,  notified 
the Court that it wished to discontinue the proceedings 
in the case. By a letter of the same day, Colombia then 
informed the Court, pursuant to article 89, paragraph 2, 
of the Rules of Court, that it made no objection to that 
discontinuance.
The  agreement  in  question  fully  and  finally 
resolves all of Ecuador’s claims against Colombia in the 
dispute concerning Colombia’s aerial spraying of toxic 
herbicides  at  locations  near  its  border  with  Ecuador, 
in  order  to  eradicate  coca  plantations.  It  establishes, 
among  other  things,  an  exclusion  zone  in  which 
Colombia will not conduct aerial spraying operations; 
creates  a  Joint  Commission  to  ensure  that  spraying 
operations outside that zone have not caused herbicides 
to  drift  into  Ecuador;  and,  so  long  as  they  have  not, 
provides a mechanism for the gradual reduction in the 
width of the said zone.
The agreement sets out operational parameters for 
Colombia’s spraying programme, records the agreement 
of the two Governments to carry out ongoing exchanges 
of information in that regard, and establishes a dispute 
settlement  mechanism.  The  agreement  also  stipulates 
that Colombia will provide a financial contribution to 
Ecuador  for  the  economic  and  social  development  of 
its provinces located near the northern border. I would 
add  that  both  parties  expressed  their  gratitude  to  the 
Court for its efforts and praised the role it had played in 
enabling them to achieve a settlement.
Having 
thus  recalled 
the  principal  decisions 
rendered  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  during 
the  past  year,  I  shall  now  turn  to  two  new  cases  that 
have been submitted to it.
The first case was brought before it on 24 April 2013 
by the Plurinational State of Bolivia, which instituted 
proceedings against the Republic of Chile concerning a 
dispute in relation to Chile’s obligation to negotiate in 
good faith and effectively with Bolivia in order to reach 
an agreement granting Bolivia a fully sovereign access 
to the Pacific Ocean.
The  second  case  was  brought  on  16  September 
2013. Nicaragua informed the Court of a dispute with 
Colombia concerning the delimitation of the boundaries 
between,  on  the  one  hand,  the  continental  shelf  of 
Nicaragua beyond the 200-nautical-mile limit from the 
baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea 
of Nicaragua is measured, and on the other hand, the 
continental shelf of Colombia.
There  are,  therefore,  currently  10  cases  on  the 
Court’s General List. On 11 November 2013, the Court 
will  deliver  its  judgment  in  the  case  concerning  the 
Request  for  Interpretation  of  the  Judgment  of  15  June 
1962 in the Case concerning the Temple of Preah Vihear 
(Cambodia v. Thailand) (Cambodia v. Thailand).
Finally, I would like to point out that the Court held 
public  hearings  in  mid-October  on  a  new  request  for 
the  indication  of  provisional  measures  submitted  by 
Costa  Rica  in  the  case  concerning  Certain  Activities 
carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica v. Nicaragua). As this is an urgent procedure, the 
Court will hand down its order on this request as soon 
as possible. The Court has also decided to hold hearings 
some time next week on the request for the indication 
of provisional measures submitted by Nicaragua in the 
case  concerning the  Construction  of  a  road  in  Costa 
Rica along the San Juan River (Nicaragua v. Costa Rica).
6/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
I  should  also  like  to  mention  that  the  Court 
is  now  working  in  the  renovated  and  modernized 
Great  Hall  of  Justice,  thanks,  in  large  part,  to  the 
contributions  provided  by  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Carnegie  Foundation.  The  renovation  project, 
which  coincided  with  the  centenary  of  the  Peace 
Palace,  was  unparalleled  in  the  history  of  the  Peace 
Palace.  While  minor  refurbishment  work  had  been 
done in the past, such as extending the Bench in view 
of the enlarged composition of the Court’s predecessor, 
the Permanent Court of International Justice, no major 
reconfiguration of this magnitude had been carried out 
in the Great Hall. The Court met for the first time in 
the renovated Great Hall in April, and henceforth it will 
have access to improved technical facilities offering a 
wide  range  of  possibilities.  Therefore,  the  Court  will 
be able to hear the cases submitted to it faithfully and 
impartially — as it always does by virtue of its noble 
judicial mission — but it will do so in a more modern 
setting.
In  fact,  the  Great  Hall  of  Justice  was  the  venue 
for  speakers  and  guests  on  the  occasion  of  a  recent 
conference  organized  by  the  Court  to  celebrate  the 
centenary of the Peace Palace on 23 September. In that 
context, the Court hosted eminent guests and brought 
together  panels  of  very  distinguished  speakers.  That 
resulted  in  a  conference  programme  that  was  as  rich 
as  it  was  balanced  in  engaging  the  past  and  present 
of  international  justice,  while  also  contemplating  the 
opportunities that will arise in the future, including at 
the Court.
In conclusion, I should like to recall that the Court 
must  do  its  utmost  to  serve  the  noble  purposes  and 
goals  of  the  United  Nations  using  limited  resources, 
since the Member States award it less than 1 per cent of 
the Organization’s regular budget. Nevertheless, I hope 
that  I  have  shown  that  the  recent  contributions  of  the 
Court are not to be measured in terms of the financial 
resources that sustain it, but against the great progress 
made  in  the  advancement  of  international  justice  and 
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the President of the International Court of Justice.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
the 
item  72,  “Report  of 
importance 
to  agenda 
International  Court  of  Justice”  and  takes  note  of  the 
report  contained  in  document  A/68/4,  regarding  the 
activities of the Court between 1 August 2012 to 31 July 
2013, as requested by the decision of the Assembly last 
year.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice for introducing the report 
to the Assembly.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  positions  concerning  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  non-use,  or 
threat  of  use,  of  force.  The  International  Court  of 
Justice has a significant role to play in promoting and 
encouraging  the  settlement  of  international  disputes 
by  peaceful  means,  as  reflected  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, and in such a manner that international 
peace and security, and justice are not endangered.
The  Movement  endeavours  to  generate  further 
progress towards achieving full respect for international 
law and, in that regard, commends the role of the Court 
in  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the Statute of the 
Court, in particular, Articles 33 and 94 of the Charter.
In  regard  to  the  advisory  opinions  of  the  Court, 
noting the fact that the Security Council has not sought 
any advisory opinion from the Court since 1970, NAM 
urges the Security Council to make greater use of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions  and  the  interpretation  of  relevant  norms  of 
international law, and on controversial issues. It further 
requests  the  Council  to  use  the  Court  as  a  source  for 
interpreting  relevant  international  law  and  also  urges 
the Council to consider having its decisions be reviewed 
by the Court, bearing in mind the need to ensure their 
adherence  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international law.
The Movement also invites the General Assembly, 
other  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  duly 
authorized  specialized  agencies  to  request  advisory 
opinions of the International Court of Justice on legal 
questions arising within the scope of their activities.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
importance of the unanimous advisory opinion issued 
by the International Court of Justice on 8 July 1996 on 
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. In 
that opinion, the Court concluded that
reaffirms 
13-53979
7/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
“there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith 
and  bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations  leading  to 
nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict 
and effective international control”.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  call  on 
Israel, the occupying Power, to fully respect the 9 July 
2004  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice on the Legal Consequences of the Construction 
of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, and calls 
upon  all  States  to  ensure  respect  for  the  provisions 
therein  for  the  realization  of  the  end  of  the  Israeli 
occupation that began in 1967 and the independence of 
the State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): Australia, Canada and 
New  Zealand  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Tomka,  for  introducing  the 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  over  the  past  year 
(A/68/4).
Universal  adherence  to  the  international  rule  of 
law  is  crucial  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
and  the  avoidance  of  conflict.  As  countries  that  are 
firmly committed to the rule of law, Australia, Canada 
and New Zealand have always been, and will continue 
to  be,  strong  supporters  of  the  Court  as  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Court  is 
central  to  ensuring  that  the  rule  of  law  is  maintained 
and strengthened at the international level and, for that 
reason,  deserves  our  continuing  support.  Australia, 
Canada  and  New  Zealand  therefore  welcome  the 
Court’s efficient handling of the cases before it and the 
steps it continues to take to improve its overall working 
methods.
We are pleased that, during the 2012-2013 reporting 
period,  the  Court  finalized  a  range  of  complex  cases 
addressing  a  diversity  of  legal  issues,  subject  matters 
and  geographical  regions  —  as  evidenced  by  Judge 
Tomka’s  statement  —  thereby  contributing  greatly  to 
the development and clarification of international legal 
principles. The increased willingness of States to turn 
to judicial settlement for the resolution of their disputes 
is  welcome  and  is  testimony  to  the  confidence  of  the 
international community in the work of the Court.
We have taken note of then-President Judge Owada’s 
paper (A/66/726, annex) setting out the Court’s response 
to the Secretary-General’s report on the comprehensive 
review  of  the  pension  scheme  of  the  members  of  the 
Court. In our view, it is highly important to strike the 
right balance between the principles of equality of the 
members of the Court and the fiscal responsibilities of 
the United Nations.
The  delegations  of  our  three  countries  have 
tremendous respect both for the work of the International 
Court of Justice and for the quality and dedication of the 
judges who sit on that important body. Our confidence 
in  the  Court  and  in  its  ability  to  render  considered 
judgments  on  complex  international  legal  issues  is 
reflected in our acceptance of the Court’s compulsory 
jurisdiction.  We  encourage  other  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  who  have  not  yet  done  so  to  deposit 
with the Secretary-General a declaration of acceptance 
of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. There could be 
no more affirmative way of declaring confidence in the 
Court  and  in  the  fair  and  impartial  application  of  the 
international rule of law.
Ms.  Orosan  (Romania):  Romania  is  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  role  played  by  the  International 
Court of Justice in the promotion of the rule of law in 
international relations and is grateful to the President of 
the Court for the comprehensive report on the intensive 
activity of the Court over the past year (A/68/4).
The  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  by  applying  the  principles 
and  norms  of  international  law,  thus  contributing  to 
friendly  relations  among  States  and  to  international 
peace  and  security,  is  undisputed.  The  increasing 
number  of  cases  on  the  docket  of  the  Court  and  the 
referral  of  disputes  involving  numerous  conventions 
of  universal  application  to  the  international  court’s 
jurisdiction stand as proof.
The influence of the Court in international relations 
is  thus  felt  increasingly  broadly.  In  our  view,  that  is 
a  positive  development  indicating  that  the  Court’s 
judgments  are  perceived  as  free  of  bias  and  as  fully 
reflecting  international  law  and  contributing  to  its 
development.
the  Court,  namely, 
Romania  has  some  experience  in  relation  to 
the  case 
proceedings  before 
concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Black  Sea 
(Romania v. Ukraine), which was settled by the Court in 
a judgment rendered unanimously on 3 February 2009, 
and the proceedings relating to the advisory opinion on 
the question of the accordance with international law of 
the unilateral declaration of independence in respect of 
Kosovo. Our experience has been thoroughly positive, 
serving  as  a  significant  impetus  in  our  decision  to 
8/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
initiate a process leading to the eventual acceptance of 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
A year ago, on the occasion of the High-level Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels  (see  A/67/PV.3),  which  took  place  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations on 24 September 2012, 
the Romanian Minister for Foreign Affairs announced 
Romania’s  intention  to  initiate  an  internal  debate  on 
the  acceptance  of  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
The public debate was launched on 4 February 2013, 
with the organization in Bucharest of a conference on 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court 
of Justice and the four years since the Court’s judgment 
in  the  case  concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the 
Black  Sea  (Romania  v.  Ukraine).  The  event  had  two-
fold significance: recalling the execution of the Court’s 
judgment in the case concerning the delimitation of the 
continental shelf and the exclusive economic zones of 
Romania and Ukraine in the Black Sea, and the formal 
launching  of  the  public  debate  on  the  acceptance  by 
Romania of the Court’s jurisdiction.
The connection between the two issues is obvious. 
The 2009 judgment of the Court represented undeniable 
proof  of  the  impartiality  and  professionalism  of  the 
International Court, thus strongly advocating in favour 
of the acceptance by Romania of its jurisdiction. Other 
public  conferences  on  the  subject  were  organized  in 
several  important  legal  studies  centres  in  Romania, 
which  were  all  well  attended, 
in  particular  by 
representatives of academia.
significance  of  accepting 
That  internal  process  was  concluded  by  an  event 
that took place on 14 June at the Faculty of Law of the 
University of Bucharest. President Tomka attended the 
event and delivered a very eloquent speech explaining 
the 
the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
why it would be advantageous for Romania, as well as 
for any other State, for that matter, to take such a step. 
I  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  to  thank  President 
Tomka again for kindly accepting our invitation to visit 
Romania and take part in the conference.
Following  the  internal  debate,  the  meaning  of 
accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
became  clearer  —  for  both  the  practitioners  of 
international law in Romania and the general public — in 
terms  of  what  was  involved  from  a  legal  perspective 
and,  perhaps  more  significantly  and  more  broadly,  in 
the  context  of  Romania’s  overall  foreign  policy.  The 
public  discussion  evinced  general  support  for  the 
initiative  of  accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court,  an  approach  shared  by  the  Romanian 
authorities, specialists in the fields of international law 
and the general public. We can therefore envisage that 
Romania  will  soon  join  the  group  of  States  that  have 
accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
The  Court  is  the  highest  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  and  has  an  acknowledged  body  of 
the  most  prominent  professionals  in  the  legal  field. 
We  think  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States 
must do everything to assist the Court in fulfilling its 
noble mandate, to maintain and consolidate its highest 
professional status and to improve the procedures of the 
Court, while complying with its Statute.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  thank  Judge  Peter  Tomka, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for 
introducing to the Assembly the comprehensive report 
on the work of the Court during the judicial year from 
1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 (A/68/4).
In  1970,  the  General  Assembly,  in  its  resolution 
2625  (XXV),  developed  the  principle  of  peaceful 
settlement of international disputes as one of the main 
tenets of international law concerning friendly relations 
and  cooperation  among  States  in  accordance  with 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Some  years  later, 
that principle was ratified by the Manila Declaration, 
accepted by the General Assembly in 1982 as resolution 
37/10.  It  highlights  the  worked  carried  out  by  the 
International Court of Justice as the principal judicial 
organ of the Organization and states that legal disputes 
should, in general, be submitted to the Court.
In 2012, in adopting the Declaration of the High-
level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and 
International  Levels  (resolution  67/1),  the  General 
Assembly recognized the positive contribution to peace 
and  international  security  made  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  through,  among  other  things,  its 
decisions on disputes between States and its promotion 
of  international  law.  Consequently,  the  Assembly 
reaffirmed the obligation of all States to comply with 
its  decisions  in  cases  to  which  they  are  parties,  and 
urged those States that had not yet done so to consider 
accepting its jurisdiction.
Peru,  pursuant  to  its  tradition  of  full  respect 
for  international  law,  has  accepted  the  compulsory 
13-53979
9/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  contentious  cases  and 
strongly  supports  the  campaign  launched  by  the 
Secretary-General aimed at extending that jurisdiction 
to all States. 
States must also ensure that the Court has adequate 
resources  to  do  its  job.  We  therefore  agree  with  the 
recommendation  made  in  the  report  on  the  need  to 
establish three new posts, which would strengthen the 
management of the workload of the Court.
We  are  pleased  to  note  in  the  report  that  the 
workload is ever more intense and that cases submitted 
to  the  Court  are  increasingly  complex.  That  accounts 
for  the  growing  number  of  States  placing  their  trust 
in  its  serious  and  impartial  character,  in  its  viability 
as  a  peaceful  option  and  in  its  capacity  to  promote 
the rule of law at the international level. We note that 
half of the disputes currently before the Court relate to 
Latin American countries, which reinforces peace and 
stability in our region.
As  President  Tomka  mentioned,  the  past  year 
saw  the  holding  of  the  oral  phase  of  the  maritime 
delimitation  process  involving  my  country  and  Chile. 
For  the  first  time  in  its  history,  the  Court  allowed 
unofficial simultaneous interpretation into Spanish. As 
a result of that and of the use of audiovisual technology 
on  its  website,  mass  public  opinion  in  both  countries 
was  able  to  follow  the  hearings  in  their  entirety  and 
form a comprehensive understanding of the controversy 
in question and the functioning of the Court.
At the conclusion of the oral phase, we were able 
to commend the decorous, harmonious and respectful 
conduct  of  both  parties.  In  keeping  with  that  the 
Assembly  said  more  than  30  years  ago  in  the  Manila 
Declaration,  it  was  found  that  recourse  to  the  Court 
is  an  opportunity  for  States  to  promote  the  mutual 
confidence in which to pursue the peace and security 
that our people yearn for and deserve.
In that spirit, at the opening of the general debate 
of  this  session  of  the  Assembly  (see  A/68/PV.8),  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Peru,  Ollanta  Humala 
Tasso, said that it is a matter of pride for our country 
that we have dealt with our maritime boundary dispute 
with  Chile  in  a  constructive  and  cooperative  manner. 
My delegation therefore understands very well that the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Court,  to  be  observed 
in  2016,  is  an  important  opportunity  to  raise  greater 
awareness  of  its  contributions  to  the  international 
community  in  its  advisory  and  dispute  settlement 
capacities.  We  therefore  support  the  report  and  the 
2014-2015 budget.
Ms.  Natividad  (Philippines):  We  thank  President 
Peter  Tomka  and  his  team  at  The  Hague  for  the 
comprehensive report on the work of the International 
Court of Justice over the past year (A/68/4). 
The Philippines associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  Court  continues  to  play  a  vital  role  in 
international relations. As the principal judicial organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  Court  resolves  disputes 
which cannot otherwise be resolved by or through the 
political  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  Under  Article 
38 of the Statute of the Court, these are disputes that 
can  be  settled  through  the  application  of  the  sources 
of  international  law —  treaties,  international  custom, 
general  principles  of  law  and,  as  subsidiary  sources, 
judicial decisions and the teachings of the most highly 
qualified authors.
Last  year,  for  the  first  time  ever,  the  General 
Assembly  held  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule 
of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels.  We 
adopted an outcome document as resolution 67/1. That 
document  recognizes  that,  within  the  United  Nations 
system and beyond, we have the institutions, working 
methods and relationships needed to make the rule of 
law  relevant  to  peace  and  security,  human  rights  and 
development.
One  of  those  institutions  is  none  other  than  the 
Court.  In  paragraph  31  of  the  outcome  document  of 
the  High-level  Meeting,  we  recognized  the  Court’s 
positive contribution to promoting the rule of law. We 
also  affirmed  our  duty  to  comply  with  its  decisions 
in  contentious  cases.  We  are  reminded  of  Article  1, 
paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations and 
our duty
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
This  is  the  very  rationale  for  the  1982  Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes  (resolution  37/10),  the  thirtieth  anniversary 
of  the  adoption  of  which  we  celebrated  in  November 
last  year.  The  Manila  Declaration  was  negotiated  and 
10/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
adopted by the General Assembly during the Cold War, 
when non-aligned countries were seeking to consolidate 
their  political  and  economic 
independence.  The 
Declaration supported their aspirations by articulating 
the  norms  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  as 
outlined  in  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
Beginning  with  the  Corfu  Channel  case  in  1947 
until  the  adoption  in  1982  of  the  Manila  Declaration, 
over  the  span  of  35  years  the  Court  disposed  of  49 
contentious  cases.  Since  1982,  however,  the  caseload 
of the Court has increased, and the Court disposed of 
78 contentious cases in a comparatively shorter period.
The 10 contentious cases currently on the Court’s 
docket come from all over the world: half from Latin 
America,  two  cases  involving  States  from  the  Asia-
Pacific region, and others from Africa. That increasing 
confidence,  especially  among  developing  countries, 
in  the  capabilities,  credibility  and  impartiality  of  the 
Court to settle disputes exclusively by peaceful means 
is  not  unrelated  to  the  norms,  values  and  aspirations 
articulated  in  the  Manila  Declaration.  The  most 
fundamental of them is the non-use or threat of use of 
force. The Manila Declaration reflects the international 
community’s increasing reliance on the rule of law as 
a  cornerstone  not  only  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes,  but  also  of  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.
Only  the  strong  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level can guarantee the respect, order and stability that 
we  desire  and  deserve.  That  is  how  we  contribute  to 
the progressive development of international law. The 
mandate  and  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  have  become 
sharper  than  ever.  The  creation  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  and  specialized  mechanisms  for 
settling disputes, such as the International Tribunal for 
the Law of the Sea and the Appellate Body of the World 
Trade  Organization,  do  not  make  the  Court  any  less 
important in the twenty-first century. On the contrary, 
the  new  international  legal  architecture  strengthens 
the Court as the only forum for resolving adjudicable 
disputes  between  States  in  the  vast  field  of  general 
international  law.  In  fact,  the  Court  is  still  seized  of 
disputes  concerning  territorial  and  maritime  issues, 
environmental  damage  and  the  conservation  of  living 
resources.
If there is anything that the Charter of the United 
Nations,  together  with  the  Statute,  jurisprudence  and 
experience  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  can 
teach us, it is that if their cause is just, the weak should 
have no fear of the mighty. It is through the work of the 
Court that the rule of law in international relations has 
a chance to prevail. In accordance with the provisions 
of  resolutions  67/1  and  67/97,  the  Philippines  renews 
its call on Member States that have not yet done so to 
accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
Finally,  we  also  call  on  the  Security  Council  to 
take  Article  96  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
into  serious  consideration,  and  to  make  greater  use 
of  the  Court  as  a  source  of  advisory  opinions  and  of 
interpretation  of  the  relevant  norms  of  international 
law, particularly on the most current and controversial 
issues affecting international peace and security.
Mr.  Diener  Sala  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Mexico  wishes  to  express  its  deep 
appreciation to the International Court of Justice for its 
hard  work  this  year  and  to  welcome  its  annual  report 
(A/68/4).  Mexico  would  also  like  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General for his hard work and commitment to 
the peaceful resolution of disputes, in accordance with 
the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, through 
the Secretary-General’s Trust Fund to Assist States in 
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  created  in  1989  to  facilitate  States’ 
applications to the Court to resolve their differences.
My country reaffirms its confidence in the Court 
as  the  principal  international  organ  of  justice  and  in 
its  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the  duty 
of  States  to  resort  to  peaceful  means  to  settle  their 
disputes  and  comply  with  international  law  and  the 
principle  of  justice.  My  delegation  also  congratulates 
the Court on the judgments it has produced during the 
past  year.  Mexico  stresses  the  confidence  that  States 
have in the Court’s ability to improve understanding of 
the cases brought before it as well as the commitment of 
the countries on both sides to abide by their obligation 
to settle disputes peacefully.
My country reaffirms its respect for and recognition 
of the value of the Court’s decisions for the development 
of international law regardless of their source, as laid 
down in article 38 of its Statute. As has been expressed 
in various forums, Mexico is convinced that the work 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  the  resolution 
of  disputes  is  crucial  to  the  promotion  of  and  respect 
for  the  rule  of  law  in  the  international  arena.  Mexico 
13-53979
11/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
would like to commend the Secretary of the Court for 
doing three high-level jobs — in the legal, diplomatic 
and administrative arenas — in carrying out his work. 
Finally,  Mexico  urges  those  States  that  have  not 
yet done so to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  soon  as  possible,  in 
keeping with paragraph 2 of article 36 of the Statute, in 
order to fulfil their duty to settle disputes peacefully, 
with respect for international law and the principle of 
good faith.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We would also like to thank the President of 
the International Court of Justice, Mr. Peter Tomka, for 
his detailed briefing on the work of the Court.
Russia  is  traditionally  committed  to  the  principle 
of the peaceful resolution of disputes, and the rule of 
law. We consider the International Court of Justice to 
be very important as a key organ dealing with settling 
disputes  between  States  and  ensuring  the  primacy  of 
the rule of law in international relations.
We  have  been  closely  monitoring  the  progress  of 
the  judicial  proceedings  of  the  Court,  whose  current 
phase  is  one  of  the  most  active  in  its  entire  history. 
During the most recent reporting period it issued two 
judgments  on  highly  complex  territorial  disputes  and 
held  substantive  hearings  on  four  cases.  The  Court 
has  also  maintained  a  broad  range  of  subject  matter 
in the cases before it, confirming its universality and 
popularity  among  States.  In  our  view,  the  energy  of 
the Court’s proceedings is a not insignificant factor in 
creating  confidence  in  it.  Moreover,  it  has  continued 
to maintain the quality of its decisions, which not only 
respond  to  the  issues  that  States  present  it  with  but 
also  lay  a  foundation  for  the  development  of  modern 
international law, at the same high level.
Russia  has  had  the  opportunity  through  its  own 
experience to be convinced of the Court’s high standards 
in its legal proceedings. In that regard, the Court should 
be  an  example  to  other  international  judicial  bodies, 
particularly  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda, whose low level of effectiveness 
has long been a subject of discussion in the Organization.
We believe that in order to develop the potential of 
the International Court of Justice, it must have help in 
addressing its practical and material problems. We are 
confident that the Court will be a model of objective, 
independent  international  justice,  whose  authoritative 
opinion  on  highly  complex  disputes  will  continue  to 
contribute to strengthening international law.
Mr. Joyini (South Africa): I would like to thank the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Peter  Tomka,  for  his  presentation  and  for  the  Court’s 
report (A/68/4).
to 
continues 
My  delegation 
At the outset, I associate myself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
consider 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  to  be  the  pre-eminent 
mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  at 
the international level. It should be kept in mind that the 
Court, as a court of justice and, moreover, the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, occupies a special 
position.  Everything  it  does  is  aimed  at  promoting 
the  rule  of  law.  It  hands  down  judgments  and  gives 
advisory opinions in accordance with its Statute, which 
is an integral part of the Charter of the United Nations, 
and  thus  contributes  to  promoting  and  clarifying 
international law.
My  delegation  welcomes 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  reaffirmed 
confidence  that  States  have  shown  in  its  ability  to 
resolve their disputes. In particular, we are pleased to 
see that States continue to refer disputes to the Court.
report  of 
the 
The number of pending cases on the Court’s docket 
is a reflection of the esteem in which the States hold it. 
We  note  with  particular  appreciation  the  information 
provided by the Court that the parties to the case of Armed 
Activities  on  the  Territory  of  the  Congo  (Democratic 
Republic of the Congo v. Uganda) are making progress 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Court’s  judgment  of 
19 December 2005. That case also technically remains 
pending in the sense that the parties could again turn to 
the Court, as they are entitled to do under the judgment, 
to decide the question of reparation if they are unable to 
agree on that point.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  mechanisms 
for  the  international  judicial  settlement  of  disputes  on 
a specialized or regional basis, the International Court 
of  Justice  continues  to  attract  a  wide  range  of  cases, 
covering many areas.
The list of cases pending before the Court includes 
those pertaining to the demarcation of boundaries, such 
as Frontier Dispute (Burkina Faso/Niger), wherein a joint 
12/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
letter of notification dated 12 May 2010 was transmitted 
to the Registrar as a special agreement, whereby both 
countries  agreed  to  submit  to  the  Court  the  frontier 
dispute between them over a section of their common 
boundary. In the Court’s judgment dated 16 April 2013, 
the  Court  settled  that  long-standing  border  dispute 
between  the  two  countries  by  demarcating  territory 
that spans an area of 380 kilometres, which is over half 
the length of the border. By an order dated 12 July 2013, 
the Court nominated three experts who would assist the 
parties in the demarcation of their common frontier in 
the disputed area, pursuant to  article 7, paragraph 4, of 
the special agreement concluded between the parties on 
24 February 2009 and to paragraph 113 of the judgment 
delivered by the Court on 16 April 2013.
My  delegation  appreciates  the  fact  that  the  Court 
sets itself a particularly demanding schedule of hearings 
and deliberations in order to consider several cases at 
the same time and to deal as promptly as possible with 
incidental proceedings, which are tending to increase, 
including  requests  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures,  preliminary  measures, 
counterclaims, 
applications for permission to intervene and declarations 
of intervention. 
We keenly await the Court’s judgment in the Aerial 
Herbicide  Spraying  (Ecuador  v.  Colombia)  case  and 
hope that it will contribute to the relevant principles. We 
have also noted that another environmental case — that 
concerning  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic  (Australia  v. 
Japan)  —  has  been  added  to  the  Court’s  docket.  We 
look forward to the Court’s decision in that case, which 
we  hope  will  similarly  contribute  to  the  body  of  law 
governing  the  environment,  particularly  in  respect  to 
the law of the sea.
My delegation has also noted that through an order 
of 6 February 2013, the Court authorized New Zealand 
to  intervene  in  the  case  concerning  Whaling  in  the 
Antarctic (Australia v. Japan). On 20 November 2012, 
New  Zealand  filed  with  the  Registry  a  declaration 
of  intervention  in  the  case.  In  order  to  avail  itself  of 
the  right  of  intervention  conferred  by  Article  63  of 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  New  Zealand  relied  on  its 
status  as  a  party  to  the  International  Convention  for 
the  Regulation  of  Whaling.  It  contended  that  as  a 
party to the Convention, it had a direct interest in the 
construction that might be placed upon the Convention 
by the Court in its decision in these proceedings. New 
Zealand underlined in its declaration that it did not seek 
to be a party to the proceedings and confirmed that, by 
availing itself of its right to intervene, it accepts that the 
construction given by the judgment in the case will be 
equally binding upon it.
The  importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions referred to the International Court of Justice 
cannot  be  overstated  in  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is therefore rather disappointing 
that  during  the  period  under  review,  no  requests  for 
advisory opinions were made.
Mr. Gálvez (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Allow me to 
convey my country’s greetings to the President of the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, who 
introduced a comprehensive report covering the period 
from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 (A/68/4).
We value the lofty responsibilities of the International 
Court of Justice  and  its  work  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations. The report introduced by 
the Court’s President clearly reflects that tradition and 
deserves our gratitude. 
its  mission  and 
international 
the  pre-eminence  of 
As  members  of  the  international  community, 
we  share  with  other  nations  respect  for  the  Court’s 
institutional  structure, 
its  work 
reflecting 
law. 
We  add  our  voice  to  those  that  have  highlighted  the 
fundamental advisory function entrusted to the Court 
by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  it  has 
performed  with  exemplary  clarity  and  commitment, 
providing, through its findings and rulings, guidelines 
and counsel to the United Nations and to the States in 
general.  We  particularly  emphasize  the  contribution 
of  the  Court  to  relations  between  States  by  applying 
international law and contributing to its effectiveness.
This year we celebrate the centennial anniversary 
of  the  Peace  Palace,  which  is  the  headquarters  of  the 
International Court of Justice and the Permanent Court 
of  Arbitration  and  which  once  housed  the  Permanent 
International Court of Justice. The 100 years of existence 
of  the  Peace  Palace  illustrate  the  determination  of 
peoples  to  resolve  their  disputes  on  the  basis  of 
international  law  by  peaceful  means  and  thereby  to 
promote international peace and security. My country 
cannot fail to highlight the contribution to the legacy of 
international law, especially Latin American law, made 
by Chilean legal expert Alejandro Álvarez, among the 
earliest Judges of the Court.
The  Court  is  an  essential  component  of  the 
international legal system, and our States acknowledge 
13-53979
13/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
the 
to  all  members  of 
and  appreciate  its  leading  role  and  the  guarantees 
provided 
international 
community  under  its  sphere  of  competence.  Through 
its decisions, the Court has facilitated the establishment 
of  an  international  legal  order  designed  to  strengthen 
the  peaceful  coexistence  of  peoples.  As  President 
Tomka stated, the jurisdiction of the Court arises from 
multilateral and bilateral treaties and from the unilateral 
declaration of States, all in conformity with the system 
prescribed in the Rome Statute.
The  system  of  judicial  settlement  of  disputes 
identified  by  the  Court  embodies  one  of  the  essential 
goals  of  the  international  legal  order  concerning  the 
stability of relations among States and the solidity of the 
rules in force. We are convinced that, in the framework 
of international peace and security, the Court helps to 
enhance relations between countries and to impose on 
the international legal order a sense of respect for the 
law, the concept of the rule of law and human rights, 
combining  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations with the requirements of modern 
life.
We  join  with  others  in  the  General  Assembly  in 
expressing  respect  and  support  for  the  Court  as  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  system 
in the conviction that the Organization will continue to 
give it the autonomy and to provide it with the human 
and material resources necessary, commensurate with 
its caseload and lofty functions. 
In  that  connection,  we  value  the  participation  of 
experts  and  the  specialized  technical  knowledge  that 
they contribute. My country highly values the Court’s 
public  dissemination  of  its  work  and  the  access  it 
provides to its teachings and activities. We hope that it 
will receive the resources to pursue those efforts with 
the  requisite  means  and  technologies.  We  know  how 
hard  the  Court  strives  to  disseminate  its  work  and  to 
support the work of those who consult its documents. 
International law is undoubtedly strengthened by that 
effort. We want to do our part to ensure that this stance 
continues to prevail among our countries.
To  conclude,  I  recall  that  recognition  of  the 
praiseworthy  work  of  the  Court  over  which  Judge 
Tomka  presides  goes  hand  in  hand  with  respect  for 
international law and makes a vital contribution to its 
effectiveness and application.
Ms. Patil (India): At the outset, I would like to thank 
Judge Peter Tomka, President of the International Court 
of  Justice,  for  introducing  the  comprehensive  report 
covering  the  judicial  activities  of  the  Court  over  the 
past year (A/68/4). I also thank him and Vice-President 
Bernardo Sepúlveda-Amor for guiding the work of the 
Court.
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Court  is  entrusted  with  the  task  of 
promoting the peaceful resolution of disputes between 
States,  which  is  fundamental  to  the  fulfilment  of  one 
of  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
acknowledge the fact that the Court has fulfilled that 
task  admirably  since  its  establishment  and  that  it  has 
acquired  a  well-deserved  reputation  as  an  impartial 
institution  maintaining  the  highest  legal  standards  in 
accordance with its mandate under the Charter of the 
United Nations, of which the Statute of the Court is an 
integral part.
One of the primary goals of the United Nations, as 
stated  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter,  is  to  establish 
conditions  under  which 
justice  and  respect  for 
international  obligations  can  be  maintained.  The 
International Court of Justice, as the only Court with 
general  international  law  jurisdiction,  is  uniquely 
placed to fulfil that role.
The  Court’s  report  illustrates  the  importance  that 
States attach to the Court and the confidence they place 
in it, as is clearly evident from the number, nature and 
variety of cases it deals with and through its ability to 
address  the  complex  aspects  of  public  international 
law.  The  cases  before  the  Court  involve  a  wide 
variety  of  subjects,  including  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes,  environmental  damage,  the  conservation 
of  living  resources,  violations  of  territorial  integrity, 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights,  genocide,  the  interpretation  and  application 
of  international  conventions  and  treaties,  and  the 
interpretation of the Court’s own judgments.
The  judgments  delivered  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  have  played  an  important  role  in 
the  interpretation  and  clarification  of  the  rules  of 
international  law,  as  embodied  in  the  progressive 
development  and  codification  of  international  law.  In 
the  performance  of  its  judicial  functions,  the  Court 
has remained highly sensitive to political realities and 
sentiments  of  taste  by  acting  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, its own 
Statute and other applicable rules of international law.
14/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
During  the  2012-2013  judicial  year,  the  Court 
delivered  two  judgments,  held  public  hearings  in 
four  cases  and  handed  down  six  orders.  The  number 
of  continuing  cases  presently  on  the  Court’s  docket 
stands at 10. Among the cases before the Court, there 
are five from Latin American States, two from Europe, 
one each from African and Asian States and one of an 
intercontinental character, which shows the universality 
of the Court.
The Court’s second function of providing advisory 
opinions on legal questions referred to it by the organs 
and  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  adds 
to  its  important  role  of  clarifying  key  international 
legal issues. The Court’s report rightly points out that 
everything  the  Court  does  is  aimed  at  promoting  the 
rule  of  law,  in  particular  through  its  judgments  and 
advisory opinions.
It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  Court  ensures  the 
greatest  possible  global  awareness  of  its  decisions 
through  its  publications,  multimedia  offerings  and 
its  website,  which  now  features  the  Court’s  entire 
jurisprudence  as  well  as  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
Permanent  Court  of  International  Justice.  Those 
sources provide useful information for States wishing 
to submit a potential dispute to the Court.
We are glad to note that the three posts sought by 
the  Court  in  different  service  categories  have  been 
filled pursuant to the approval of the General Assembly, 
which  will  help  to  strengthen  the  Court’s  security-
related aspects and will expedite the publication of the 
Court’s work. It is also a matter of satisfaction that the 
Great Hall of Justice, in which public hearings are held, 
has been refurbished with modern equipment.
Finally, India wishes to reaffirms its strong support 
to the Court and acknowledges the importance that the 
international community attaches to its work.
Mr. Ishikawa (Japan): At the outset, I would like 
to  thank  President  Peter  Tomka  for  introducing  the 
comprehensive report on the work of the International 
Court of Justice (A/68/4). His report highlights the ever-
increasing need for the peaceful settlement of disputes 
between States and the crucial role that the Court plays 
in resolving them by applying international law. Allow 
me to take this opportunity to commend the work of the 
Court under the leadership of President Tomka.
As the President’s report clearly points out, the use 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  forum  of 
choice for the settlement of disputes in the international 
community continues to increase. Cases referred to the 
Court  involve  a  wide  variety  of  subjects,  including 
territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  environmental 
disputes  and  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law and human rights law.
While  the  issues  on  which  Member  States  file 
claims  with  the  Court  are  growing  more  complex  in 
factual and legal terms, Japan is confident that the Court 
will maintain the high quality of its work through the 
judicial rigour of its members and with the support of its 
highly dedicated Registry, an element that truly makes 
the  Court  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. Japan commends the Court for its continuing 
efforts to examine its procedures and working methods 
in  order  to  conduct  its  work  in  a  sustainable  manner, 
while assuming the challenging task of guaranteeing its 
impartiality  against  political  pressures  and  maintaing 
its respect for equality between the parties to disputes.
As  Prime  Minister  Shinzo  Abe  said  from  this 
rostrum during the general debate of the current session 
(see  A/68/PV.12),  Japan  attaches  great  importance 
to  enhancing  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level.  Indeed,  there  are  rising  expectations  across 
the  globe  for  international  law  to  serve  as  a  means 
for  resolving  heated  controversies  and  diffusing 
tensions  by  providing  those  involved  with  a  common 
language.  My  Government  strongly  believes  that  the 
international  community  must  seize  this  moment  to 
make  international  law  play  a  more  important  role 
in  international  relations.  The  universal  acceptance 
of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  by  Member  States  would 
enable the enhancement of this function by the Court. 
Japan  itself  has  accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  since  1958.  Our 
delegation calls upon all Member States that have not 
done so to follow suit.
I would also like to take this opportunity to refer 
to  Japan’s  experience  in  the  peaceful  of  settlement  of 
disputes  through  the  international  judicial  process. 
This  year  has  been  an  important  one  for  Japan  as  it 
has participated in all the proceedings of Japan’s first 
Court  case  in  its  history  concerning  the  legality  of 
Japan’s  special  whaling  permit  in  the  Antarctic.  As 
Japan’s agent stated in his concluding remarks, the oral 
proceedings gave Japan the opportunity to thoroughly 
present  its  case  about  the  Japanese  research  whaling 
to the Court and, by extension, to the entire world. In 
that sense, Japan demonstrated, based on law and facts, 
that its special whaling permit was in full accordance 
13-53979
15/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
with  the  International  Convention  for  the  Regulation 
of  Whaling.  Japan  trusts  that  the  Court  will  arrive 
at  its  conclusion  based  on  the  clearly  presented  legal 
arguments and factual evidence.
Finally,  I  wish  to  reiterate  Japan’s  unwavering 
support for the Court.
Ms. Bagley (United States of America): We would 
like  to  thank  President  Tomka  for  his  leadership  as 
President of the International Court of Justice, and for 
the  Court’s  recent  report  regarding  its  activities  over 
the past year (A/68/4). We are struck by the continuing 
forward momentum of the Court reflected in the report.
Over the past year, the Court has issued two judgments 
related to the demarcation of boundaries both on land 
and in the sea and six orders, and held hearings open to 
the public in four complex cases. In addition, the Court 
has 10 more contentious cases in its pipeline spanning 
the gamut of issues including border disputes — again, 
territorial and maritime — environmental matters and 
the interpretation of treaties among multilateral parties, 
to  reference  just  a  few.  Five  of  the  pending  cases  are 
between Latin American States, two between European 
States,  one  between  African  States  and  one  between 
Asian States, while one is intercontinental in character. 
Truly, the caseload of the Court is global and mirrors 
the work of the General Assembly itself in this regard.
The International Court of Justice is the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  preamble 
of  the  Charter  underscores  the  determination  of  its 
drafters
“to  establish  conditions  under  which  justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from  treaties 
and  other  sources  of  international  law  can  be 
maintained”.
This goal lies at the core of the Charter system, and in 
particular the role of the Court. Taking stock today of 
approximately  70  years  of  the  Court’s  jurisprudence, 
it  is  clear  that  the  Court  has  made  a  significant 
contribution to establishing legal norms and clarifying 
legal principles in multiple areas of international law.
We 
see 
an 
tendency 
increased 
among 
States  —  reaffirmed  again  this  past  year  —  to  take 
disputes  to  the  Court  and  to  vigorously  advocate  on 
behalf  of  their  interests  before  it.  In  turn,  the  Court 
has  continued  to  become  more  responsive  to  them  in 
multiple ways, including through measures to enhance 
its efficiency to cope in a timely way with the increase in 
its workload and its commitment to continually review 
and refine its procedures and working methods to keep 
pace  with  the  rapidly  changing  times.  By  working  to 
resolve some disputes up front, helping to diffuse other 
disputes before they escalate,  and providing a  trusted 
channel for States to address and resolve disputes about 
legal  issues,  the  Court  is  fulfilling  its  Chapter  XIV 
mandate.  We  hope  the  Court  will  continue  to  receive 
appropriate  resources  for  carrying  out  its  important 
functions.
We  also  want  to  commend  the  Court’s  continued 
public outreach to educate key sectors of society — law 
professors and students, judicial officials, Government 
officials and the general public — on the work of the 
Court and to increase understanding of the work of the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  From  a  transparency 
standpoint,  we  note  in  particular  that  the  Court’s 
proceedings  are  now  available  to  watch  live  and  on 
demand on United Nations Web TV. All these efforts 
complement  and  expand  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations to promote the rule of law globally and a better 
understanding of public international law.
In closing, we want to express our appreciation for 
the hard work of President Tomka, the other judges who 
currently serve on the Court, and all of the members of 
the Court’s staff who contribute on a daily basis to the 
continuing productive work of that institution.
Mr. Gata Mavita wa Lufuta (Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  My  delegation  takes 
note of the report submitted to the General Assembly 
by the International Court of Justice (A/68/4), covering 
the period from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013. We note 
that during the reporting period, 12 contentious cases 
were  brought  before  the  Court,  which  delivered  two 
judgments and eight orders.
My  delegation  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  because  it 
recognizes  that,  as  the  principal  body  of  the  United 
Nations, its role is to bring about by peaceful means, 
and  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice 
and  internatinoal  law,  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations which might lead to 
a  breach  of  the  peace.  My  delegation  appreciates  the 
outstanding role played by the Court in promoting the 
rule of law and encourages it to pursue its efforts in this 
direction.
We must recognize the skill with which the Court 
has  conducted  its  deliberations  in  the  cases  before  it 
16/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
in recent years. It has not only managed an increasing 
number  of  cases,  but  has  further  established  itself  as 
the main judicial body of the United Nations mandated 
to  settle  legal  disputes  that  States  have  submitted  to 
it,  in  accordance  with  international  law.  Seeking  to 
deliver  impartial  justice,  it  has  also  established  its 
independence vis-à-vis the Security Council, which is 
a political body of the United Nations, as occurred in 
its  judgment  of  24  May  1980  in  the  case  concerning 
United States Diplomatic and Consular Staff in Tehran 
(United States of America v. Iran), following the events 
of 4 November 1979.
Regarding recourse to the use of force against the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of  any 
State,  or  in  any  other  manner  inconsistent  with  the 
purposes of the United Nations, referred to in Article 
2, paragraph 4, of the Charter of the United Nations, I 
refer to the 19 December 2005 Judgment rendered by 
the  Court  in  the  case  concerning  Armed  Activities  on 
the Territory of the Congo (Democratic Republic of the 
Congo v. Uganda), cited in paragraph 31 of the report 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  As  the  eminent 
Congolese  jurist  Sayeman  Bula-Bula  once  said,  this 
case  surpassed  the  case  concerning  Corfu  Channel 
(United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
v.  Albania)  of  1949,  the  case  concerning  Border  and 
Transborder Armed Actions (Nicaruaga v. Honduras) of 
1986, and  the case  concerning  Oil  Platforms  (Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  v.  United  States  of  America)  of  2003.
While the Court’s observations could have been more 
clearly expressed in its decision, as some have rightly 
said,  they  still  stand  regardless  of  their  semantics.  In 
that regard, it is important to closely read the entirety 
of the judgment, in particular paragraphs 153, 304 and 
345.
In  his  report  on  this  subject,  the  President  of  the 
Court lays out the development of the negotiations held 
by parties to settle the question of reparations. Given 
the  friendly  relations  and  climate  of  cooperation  that 
have  progressively  been  re-established  between  the 
former belligerent parties, my delegation hopes that the 
issue  of  reparations  will  find  a  just,  prompt  and  fair 
solution through the means stipulated in the judgment 
of 19 December 2005.
The  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  has 
made  a  valuable  contribution  to  the  development  of 
international law and to what is known today as “the 
return to international law”. Our enormous contribution 
has allowed us to adhere to the rule of law, respectful 
of  international  law,  both  as  an  applicant  and  as  a 
respondent State. Indeed, it is no fantasy to claim that 
for more than a decade the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  has  been  one  of  the  main  applicant  countries 
submitting cases to the International Court of Justice, 
five of which appear on the current docket and are close 
to being decided.
My delegation supports the activities of the Court 
and  encourages  States  to  refer  their  disputes  to  it  in 
order  to  promote  peace  through  the  rule  of  law  and 
facilitate  peaceful  coexistence.  It  is  alarmed  to  note 
that  barely  one  third  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
Organization  have  made  declarations  with  respect  to 
Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute of the Court, that
“they  recognize  as  compulsory  ipso  facto  and 
without special agreement, in relation to any other 
state accepting the same obligation, the jurisdiction 
of the Court in all legal disputes”.
In that regard, my delegation encourages States that 
have not yet done so to adhere to the declaration accepting 
the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction, pursuant to Article 
36, paragraph 2, of the Statute and in accordance with 
the provisions of resolution 67/1, of 24 September 2012, 
and of resolution 67/97, of 14 December 2012, by which 
the General Assembly calls upon States that have not 
yet accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court 
on that basis to consider doing so.
My  delegation  considers  this  to  be  an  effective 
method of referral to the Court that allows States parties 
to the Statute to recognize as compulsory ipso facto and 
without  special  agreement,  with  respect  to  any  other 
State  accepting  the  same  obligation,  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  in  all  legal  disputes.  The  report  of  the 
President tell us that, of the 194 States  Members that 
make  up  this  universal  Organization,  only  70  States, 
including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, have 
accepted the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction pursuant 
to Article 36 of the Statute.
Finally, the fact that many of the statements made 
by  the  representatives  of  Member  States  contain 
reservations or limitations that exclude certain dispute 
categories  or  require  certain  conditions  to  be  met  in 
order  to  accept  the  Court’s  competence  in  the  matter 
of  a  dispute  represents  a  practice  that  my  delegation 
cannot support.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the Plurinational State 
13-53979
17/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
of Bolivia, I extend our warm welcome and thanks to 
Judge Peter Tomka, President of the International Court 
of Justice, for introducing the extensive report detailing 
the work of the Court from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 
2013 (A/68/4).
The  International  Court  of  Justice  represents  the 
primary embodiment of universal justice as understood 
by the international community. It serves above all as 
a  mechanism  for  the  peaceful  and  just  settlement  of 
disputes based on legal agreement, which is considered 
to  be  the  civilized  way  to  address  differences  among 
States.
Progress  in  international  law  made  it  possible  to 
banish  old  practices,  such  as  unilateral  acts  to  assert 
power by strong nations over weak ones, the prohibition 
of the threat or use of force and the unilateral imposition 
of power by strong nations over weak, the prohibition 
of the threat or use of force, and the elimination of the 
right of States to territorial conquest. 
The 
indisputable  guarantor  has  been 
the 
International Court of Justice as the main judicial body 
of the United Nations system charged with protecting 
the interests of the parties concerned, as well as those 
of  any  State  affected  by  a  dispute.  In  that  context,  it 
is important to highlight the resolutions of the United 
Nations that crystallize the principles of international 
law and have served as the basis for the judgments of 
the Court.
therefore 
reiterates 
Bolivia 
its  adherence 
to 
the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful  Settlement 
of  International  Disputes  (resolution  37/10).  The 
current  tendency  of  States  to  refer  their  disputes  to 
that  mechanism  is  a  clear  and  healthy  sign  that  they 
acting  in  accordance  with  the  most  up-to-date  legal 
practices  of 
international  community,  which, 
instead of deepening antagonism, reduce controversies 
and maintain friendly relations that are not tainted by 
aggression.
the 
It  is  the  keen  desire  of  the  great  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  international  community  that  the 
mechanism for the judicial settlement of disputes, the 
responsibility for which falls to the International Court 
of Justice, will be accepted in a comprehensive manner 
in  such  a  way  that,  each  day,  increasing  numbers  of 
States will accept the Court’s jurisdiction with a view to 
recognizing its role as a protagonist in the maintenance 
of  international  peace.  In  that  context,  we  urge  the 
States Members of the United Nations to recognize the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
to  accept  its  rulings  in  order  to  reaffirm  respect  for 
international law and the quest for peace, international 
security and justice.
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): It is an 
honour to participate once again in the annual meeting 
of the General Assembly to consider the report on the 
work of the International Court of Justice, which is the 
only international tribunal of a universal character with 
general jurisdiction. My delegation thanks Judge Peter 
Tomka, President of the Court, for his introduction of 
the report on the work of the Court (A/68/4) and for his 
important appearance before the Assembly.
The peaceful settlement of international disputes is 
an essential purpose of the United Nations. The role of 
the Court in maintaining peace and security is therefore 
critical, giving rise to the responsibility of the United 
Nations  and  its  Member  States  to  support  the  Court 
in  fulfilling  its  duties  and  to  scrupulously  implement 
its decisions, as well as the importance of ensuring its 
legal and procedural independence.
To  that  end,  the  Court  must,  inter  alia,  enjoy  the 
necessary  resources  to  fulfil  its  mandate,  in  view  of 
the substantial increase in its workload. In that matter, 
and thanks to the support of the Organization and the 
efforts of the Court, we welcome the elimination of the 
case-processing backlog and the fact that the conclusion 
of the written phase can now lead seamlessly to the oral 
proceedings.
A  basic  minimum  requirement  of  strengthening 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  Court  itself  is  the 
respect  and  compliance  of  States  with  it  decisions, 
including  orders,  opinions  or  even  precautionary 
measures  imposed  on  parties  to  a  dispute.  Such 
measures,  as  the  Court  has  pointed  out,  are  “binding 
...  and  therefore,  create  international  ...  obligations”. 
There must be full compliance based on good faith to 
ensure the integrity of each process and consolidate the 
undisputed role of the Court in ensuring justice, peace 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  Costa  Rica 
believes that the time has come to provide a procedure 
to follow up the Court’s decisions and to reflect cases of 
non-compliance in order to avoid situations that violate 
the rule of law.
Although  193  countries  are  party  to  the  Statute 
of the Court, only 67 have recognized its compulsory 
jurisdiction in accordance with Article 36, paragraphs 
2 and 5, of of the Statute. Costa Rica has accepted its 
18/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
jurisdiction since 1973, but we note with concern that 
in recent years the number of countries recognizing the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  has  not  grown. 
Although  this  has  not  affected  the  legal  activities  of 
the Court, we would respectfully invite States that have 
not  as  yet  done  so,  to  consider  using  the  mechanism 
provided in Article 36 of the Court’s Statute.
For a number of years the Court has made   significant 
contributions  to  the  development  of  international  law 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  since  it 
setted its first case concerning Corfu Channel (United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  v. 
Albania). In that regard, we applaud the statement made 
by  the  President  during  the  centennial  anniversary  of 
the Peace Palace:
“[T]he  Court  will  continue  to  work  hard  to  meet 
these  challenges  as  they  arise,  always  careful 
to  settle  the  disputes  submitted  to  it  faithfully 
and  impartially,  as  dictated  by  the  noble  judicial 
mission  entrusted  to  it  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.”
Costa  Rica  reaffirms  its  absolute  respect  for  the 
instruments and organizations of international law and 
its commitment to respecting and complying faithfully 
with all decisions handed down by them. We reiterate 
our full trust that the Court it will continue to strengthen 
peace and justice through the exercise of its duties.
The Acting President (spoke in French): May I take 
it that the General Assembly takes note of the report of 
the International Court of Justice (A/68/4)?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded its consideration 
of agena item 72.
It was so decided.
Agenda item 75
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/314)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/68/364 and 
A/68/366)
The Acting President (spoke in French): It is now 
my  great  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Sang-Hyun Song, President of the 
International Criminal Court. I now give him the floor.
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song  (International  Criminal 
Court):  It  is  an  honour  to  appear  for  the  fifth  time 
before the Assembly to introduce the annual report of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/68/314).  As 
members  are  aware,  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  is  an  independent  institution,  but  it  was  born 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  The  two 
organizations  engage  in  practical  cooperation  under 
the Relationship Agreement concluded in the spirit of 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
I would like to take this opportunity to express the 
ICC’s  deep  gratitude  for  the  United  Nations  steadfast 
support  of  the  Court  in  the  context  of  global  efforts 
to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  to  promote  peace, 
security and human rights everywhere.
Since 
I 
the  Assembly 
last  addressed 
(see 
A/67/PV.29), Côte d’Ivoire has become the 122nd State 
party to the Rome Statute. Nine further States parties 
have  ratified  the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute 
on  the  crime  of  aggression,  and  10  States  parties 
have ratified the amendment, which makes the use of 
chemical weapons in non-international conflicts a war 
crime punishable by the International Criminal Court. 
I  congratulate  those  countries  on  strengthening  the 
international fight against impunity through the Rome 
Statute system. I also encourage all States to consider 
ratifying  these  instruments  if  they  have  not  already 
done so.
Allow me to recall that the International Criminal 
Court does not have universal jurisdiction. The Court 
can  prosecute  crimes  committed  on  the  territory  of  a 
State party or by a national of a State party. The only 
exception  is  that  the  Security  Council  can  decide  to 
refer  a  situation  to  the  ICC  Prosecutor  under  Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
In  the  past  year,  the  ICC  has  continued  to  work 
very  hard  on  the  mandate  that  States  have  given  it. 
The  Prosecutor  has  opened  an  eighth  investigation, 
in  Mali.  The  Court  has  issued  its  first  judgement  of 
acquittal, which is now on appeal. Two arrest warrants 
were  unsealed  and  one  suspect  surrendered  to  the 
Court.  Three  trials  are  continuing  and  another  is  set 
to  start  very  soon.  Several  important  decisions  have 
been issued, breaking new legal ground in the Court’s 
jurisprudence.
In  institutional  developments,  Mr.  Herman  von 
Hebel  has  been  sworn  in  as  the  new  International 
13-53979
19/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
Criminal Court Registrar and Mr. James Stewart as the 
new Deputy Prosecutor.
Kivus  region  of  eastern  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo.
I  will  give  a  brief  overview  of  the  main  judicial 
the 
the  eight  situations  before 
developments 
International Criminal Court.
in 
to 
their 
To  date, 
four  State  parties 
the  Rome 
Statute  —  Uganda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, the Central African Republic and Mali — have 
referrred  situations  occurring  on 
territories 
to  the  Court.  In  the  two  situations  in  Kenya  and  the 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  previous  Prosecutor  commenced 
investigations on his own initiative, with the knowledge 
and support of the Governments concerned. In addition, 
the Security Council referred the situations in Darfur, 
the Sudan, and in Libya, both of which are non-States 
parties.
In  the  situation  in  Uganda,  regrettably,  the  arrest 
warrants  against  Mr.  Joseph  Kony  and  three  other 
alleged leaders of the Lord’s Resistance Army remain 
outstanding.  Once  again,  I  implore  all  States  to 
cooperate  in  bringing  those  persons  before  justice  to 
face the very serious charges against them.
In the situation in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, the Appeals Chamber is currently considering 
appeals  against  last  year’s  conviction,  sentence  and 
reparations  decision  in  the  case  of  The  Prosecutor  v. 
Thomas Lubanga Dyilo.
On  21  November  2012,  the  first  judgement  of 
acquittal at the ICC was issued when Trial Chamber II 
found Mr. Mathieu Ngudjolo Chui not guilty of crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  The  Prosecutor’s 
appeal against that judgment is also under consideration 
by  the  Appeals  Chamber.  The  trial  of  Mr.  Germain 
Katanga has ended and the Trial Chamber is expected 
to issue its judgment in the near future.
In  a  very  welcome  development,  Mr.  Bosco 
Ntaganda, charged with the use of child soldiers, murder, 
rape, sexual slavery and other crimes, was transferred 
to the ICC on 22 March. He is the first person subject to 
an ICC arrest warrant to have voluntarily surrendered 
to the Court. I would like to express the ICC’s gratitude 
to the countries that facilitated his transfer. Following a 
process of disclosure, the hearing on the confirmation 
of  charges  against  Mr.  Ntaganda  is  set  to  commence 
on  22  February  2014.  An  arrest  warrant  against 
Mr.  Sylvestre  Mudacumura  remains  outstanding.  He 
is  charged  with  alleged  war  crimes  committed  in  the 
In the situation in the Central African Republic, the 
trial of Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba has continued, with the 
presentation of defence evidence expected to conclude 
shortly.
In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  Sudan,  the  trial  of 
Mr. Abdallah Banda is set to commence on 5 May 2014. 
The  proceedings  against  his  co-accused,  Mr.  Saleh 
Jerbo,  were  terminated  on  5  October  on  the  basis  of 
information indicating that he had died earlier this year. 
Regrettably,  arrest  warrants  remain  pending  against 
four persons suspected of having committed very grave 
crimes  in  the  Darfur  situation.  The  active  support  of 
the Security Council will be essential in ensuring that 
those persons are brought before the Court to face the 
charges against them in compliance with the Council’s 
original resolution 1593 (2005).
In the situation in Libya, questions of admissibility 
have featured significantly in the proceedings during the 
past year. As members are aware, the Rome Statute gives 
primacy to national jurisdictions under the principle of 
complementarity, and if a Government can demonstrate 
that  it  is  genuinely  investigating  or  prosecuting  the 
person before the ICC for the same crimes, the ICC will 
step back, declaring the case inadmissible. On 31 May, 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  I  rejected  Libya’s  admissibility 
challenge with respect to Mr. Saif Al-Islam Al-Qadhafi 
in light of the specific circumstances of that case. Libya 
has appealed against that decision, but remains under a 
legal obligation to transfer Mr. Al-Qadhafi to the ICC.
On  the  other  hand,  on  11  October  the  Pre-Trial 
Chamber  declared  the  case  of  Abdullah  Al-Senussi 
inadmissible  before  the  ICC,  again  in  light  of  the 
specific  circumstances  of  the  case,  opening  the  way 
for  proceedings  against  Mr.  Al-Senussi  to  continue 
at  the  national  level.  That  was  the  first  decision  of 
this  kind  issued  by  a  Chamber  of  the  ICC.  However, 
I should stress that the decision has been appealed by 
Mr. Al-Senussi and is therefore not final.
In the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, the only suspect 
currently  in  the  custody  of  the  ICC  is  Mr.  Laurent 
Gbagbo.  Following  a  hearing  on  the  confirmation 
of  charges,  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  requested  the 
Prosecutor to consider providing further evidence and 
gave her until 15 November to do so. Arrest warrants 
against  two  other  suspects,  Mrs.  Simone  Gbagbo  and 
Mr.  Charles  Blé  Goudé,  were  unsealed  during  the 
20/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
reporting  period,  but  the  requests  for  their  arrest  and 
surrender to the ICC remain outstanding.
In the situation in Kenya, the trial of Mr. William 
Samoei  Ruto  and  Mr.  Joshua  Arap  Sang  commenced 
on  10  September,  and  the  presentation  of  prosecution 
evidence  is  currently  under  way.  That  is  the  first 
criminal  trial  hearing  before  any  international  court 
in  which  the  accused  are  not  in  custody,  but  appear 
as  free  men,  having  voluntarily  complied  with  the 
summons to appear issued by the ICC. In the light of 
recent  submissions  by  the  parties  to  the  other  trial  in 
the  Kenya  situation,  that  of  Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  the 
Chamber earlier today issued a decision postponing the 
start of the trial until 5 February.
A 
legal  question 
that  has  recently  attracted 
considerable  attention  in  the  Kenya  situation  is  the 
requirement  of  an  accused  person’s  presence  at  trial. 
The  relevant  provision  of  the  Rome  Statute  is  article 
63,  which  provides  in  its  first  paragraph  that  “[t]he 
accused  shall  be  present  during  the  trial”.  Last  week, 
the  ICC  Appeals  Chamber  issued  its  first-ever  ruling 
on the interpretation of that provision, finding that the 
absence of an accused from trial is permissible under 
exceptional circumstances when strictly necessary and 
if a number of specific criteria are fulfilled, including 
the prior exploration of other possible solutions.
On  16  January,  the  Prosecutor  formally  opened 
an investigation into alleged crimes committed on the 
territory of Mali since January 2012, following the Mali 
Government’s referral of the situation to the Prosecutor 
last  year.  Based  on  her  preliminary  examination,  the 
Prosecutor initially focused her investigation on three 
northern regions of Mali and on allegations concerning 
intentional  attacks  on  buildings  dedicated  to  religion 
and  historic  monuments,  including  those  with  World 
Heritage  status.  The  Prosecutor  has  accordingly 
cooperated with UNESCO and has sought cooperation 
with a number of other United Nations agencies present 
in Mali.
Indeed, United Nations logistical and other types of 
assistance are of crucial importance to the ICC’s ability 
to conduct effective investigations and other operations 
in the situation countries. The ICC is extremely grateful 
for the continuing cooperation with the United Nations 
in that respect.
In addition to the investigations related to the eight 
situations I have just discussed, the ICC Prosecutor is 
conducting  another  eight  preliminary  examinations 
around the world with a view to determining whether 
the opening of a formal ICC investigation is warranted. 
Those  examinations  concern  Afghanistan,  Colombia, 
Georgia,  Guinea,  Honduras,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Nigeria and, finally, a situation referred by the Union 
of the Comoros concerning crimes allegedly committed 
on 31 May 2010 aboard vessels reportedly registered in 
Comoros, Greece and Cambodia that formed part of a 
flotilla bound for the Gaza Strip.
Fairness is a cornerstone of ICC judicial work. The 
internationally  recognized  rights  of  the  accused  are 
meticulously respected. No one can be convicted unless 
his  or  her  guilt  is  proved  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt. 
The  Registry  of  the  ICC  makes  legal  aid  available  to 
the accused and to victims if they cannot afford legal 
representation. The legal aid extended to victims assists 
them in asserting their rights under the Rome Statute 
to  present  their  views  in  the  context  of  cases  against 
the  suspects  and  the  accused  and  to  seek  reparations 
for  harm  suffered.  Thus  far,  the  ICC  has  provided 
legal assistance to more than 7,000 victims who have 
participated in the proceedings.
Parallel to the judicial proceedings at the Court, the 
ICC  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  provides  a  very  concrete 
response to the urgent needs of numerous victims and 
their families who have suffered from the worst crimes 
under  international  law.  The  Trust  Fund  currently 
supports  28  projects  that  reach  an  estimated  110,000 
victims and their families in northern Uganda and the 
eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
Of  those  beneficiaries,  over  5,000  are  survivors  of 
sexual and gender-based violence. 
The  Trust  Fund  considers  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  girls  to  be  a  fundamental  requirement 
of  any  justice,  reparation,  assistance,  reconciliation 
and  peacebuilding  process.  The  assistance  that  the 
Trust Fund is able to provide to victims depends upon 
voluntary  donations,  which  are  also  needed  to  fund 
reparations when a convicted person is indigent. Once 
again, I thank those States that have already generously 
supported the ICC Trust Fund for Victims, and I call on 
others States to consider doing so for the benefit of the 
victims of atrocious crimes.
The  ICC  has  attracted  considerable  international 
attention  in  the  past  months,  especially  with  respect 
to Africa. Some voices have urged the Court to show 
flexibility on certain issues. I would like to underline 
that while the ICC will naturally try to find practical 
13-53979
21/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
solutions to the challenges it faces, such solutions must 
be  consistent  with  the  legal  framework  set  by  States 
under the Rome Statute. That is also what I ask of the 
other stakeholders in the ICC system — to uphold the 
integrity of the Rome Statute and to respect the roles 
assigned to each entity under the Statute. Whereas the 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International  Criminal  Court  can  consider  legislative 
issues  and  discuss  political  questions,  the  ICC  must 
remain an independent judicial institution that relies on 
the States for enforcement and cooperation.
In the words of the preamble to the Rome Statute, 
the grave crimes under ICC jurisdiction “threaten the 
peace, security and well-being of the world”. It is not 
difficult  to  see  why.  Mass  murder,  the  use  of  armed 
force against civilians, the deportation of populations, 
the use of child soldiers, and rape used as a weapon of 
war are atrocious acts that inflict irreparable suffering, 
often across generations. The issues that fall under the 
ICC  mandate  have  tremendous  societal  and  political 
significance in the countries concerned. ICC decisions 
will  often  be  welcome  to  some  and  disappointing  to 
others, but the reasons driving the Court’s decisions are 
always legal, not political.
In five years’ time, many ad hoc courts and tribunals 
will have closed their doors. The role of the ICC in global 
efforts for peace, security and the prevention of mass 
atrocities will be even more pronounced than it is today. 
Let  us  work  together  to  further  enhance  that  system. 
The ICC can properly deliver its mandate only if States 
cooperate in accordance with the obligations they have 
accepted under the Rome Statute. I also appeal to those 
States that have not yet joined the Statute to give active 
consideration to doing so. Ultimately, the success of the 
ICC in suppressing impunity depends upon the support 
of Member States.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the floor to the observer of the European Union.
Mr. Marhic (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine  and 
Georgia, align themselves with this statement.
At  the  outset,  we  thank  President  Song  for  his 
presentation  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) for its ninth annual report to the United Nations 
(see  A/68/314),  covering  the  period  from  1  August 
2012  to  31  July  2013,  detailing  what  is  described  as 
another increasingly busy year for the ICC.
We  welcome  the  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute 
by  Côte  D’Ivoire  on  15  February,  which  brought  the 
number of States parties to 122.
We  are  firm  supporters  of  the  ICC.  We  note  that 
with eight situations under investigation and a further 
eight under preliminary examination, the ICC is facing 
an  increasing  workload.  The  Prosecutor  is  currently 
investigating more allegations involving more suspects 
than  ever  before.  We  acknowledge,  in  that  regard, 
the  opening  in  January  of  investigations  concerning 
allegations of crimes occurring in Mali since January 
2012.  The  Court  has  given  hope  to  victims  of  the 
most  serious  crimes,  and  more  than  110,000  victims 
have  already  benefitted  from  the  concrete  assistance 
programmes of the ICC Trust Fund for Victims.
The recent report of the ICC describes the efforts 
that the Court has made in fulfilling its mission. It also 
describes  the  challenges  that  the  ICC  is  facing.  The 
universality of the Rome Statute, which continues to be 
one of the main challenges faced by the ICC, is essential 
for  ensuring  accountability  for  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community. 
The  perpetrators  of  such  crimes,  regardless  of  their 
status,  must  be  held  accountable  for  their  actions.  A 
key element of the Rome Statute is its equal application 
to  all  persons,  without  distinction  based  on  official 
capacity.
We  need  to  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  make 
the  Rome  Statute  truly  universal  and  to  extend  the 
participation  to  the  Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and 
Immunities  of  the  ICC.  In  that  regard,  the  EU  and 
its  member  States  reiterate  their  call  upon  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  not  yet  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute  and  the  Agreement  on  the  Privileges 
and Immunities of the ICC to ratify or accede to both 
agreements, as well as upon all States parties that have 
not yet done so to implement them under their national 
legal order.
Another  fundamental  challenge  remains  in  the 
necessity  to  ensure  cooperation  with  the  ICC,  and  in 
particular how to react to instances of non-cooperation 
of States that are in violation of their obligations with 
regard to the ICC. Cooperation with the Court and the 
enforcement of its decisions are indeed equally essential 
22/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
if the Court is to be able to carry out its mandate. That 
applies to all States parties to the Rome Statue, as well 
as when the Security Council has referred a situation 
to  the  Court  in  accordance  with  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
We  note  with  concern  that  arrest  warrants  issued 
by the Court — some dating back to 2005 — remain 
outstanding.  A  total  of  13  persons  are  currently 
subject  to  outstanding  arrest  warrants.  We  recall 
that  non-cooperation  with  the  Court  in  respect  of  the 
execution of arrest warrants constitutes a violation of 
international obligations and stifles the ICC’s capacity 
to deliver justice. We therefore call upon all States to 
take  consistent  actions  to  encourage  appropriate  and 
full cooperation with the Court, including the prompt 
execution  of  arrest  warrants.  We  also  reiterate  the 
crucial importance for all States to refrain from helping 
to shelter or hide the perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes and to take the necessary steps to bring those 
perpetrators to justice in order to end impunity.
We note that on 11 October, Pre-Trial Chamber I of 
the  ICC  decided  that  the  case  against  Mr.  Al-Senussi 
was  inadmissible  before  the  Court,  in  accordance 
with  the  principle  of  complementarity.  The  primary 
responsibility  for  bringing  offenders  to  justice  lies 
with States themselves, in conformity with the relevant 
provisions of the Rome Statute. Complementarity is a 
core principle of the Rome Statute; in order to make it 
operational, all States parties need to prepare and adopt 
effective  national  legislation  to  implement  the  Rome 
Statute in national systems.
We  welcome  the  actions  undertaken  by  States, 
international organizations and civil society to increase 
their  cooperation  with  and  assistance  to  the  ICC.  We 
particularly  praise  the  ongoing  cooperation  of  the 
United Nations with the Court, which is acknowledged 
in  the  report.  We  also  welcome  the  guidance  issued 
by the Secretary-General earlier this year on contacts 
with persons who are the subject of arrest warrants or 
summonses issued by the International Criminal Court 
and  the  practice  of  informing  the  Prosecutor  and  the 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute beforehand of any meetings with persons who 
are the subject of arrest warrants issued by the Court that 
are considered necessary for the performance of United 
Nations-mandated  tasks.  The  European  Union  and  its 
member States undertake, on their part, to pursue their 
efforts in the area of the fight against impunity, notably 
by giving the Court full diplomatic support.
It is essential that concerns about the ICC and its 
proceedings are presented within the framework of the 
Rome Statute. Our common goal to further strengthen 
the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate  is  clear.  There  are 
States parties to the ICC across all parts of the world, 
and  they  all  share  ownership  of  the  Statute.  We  will 
continue to encourage the widest possible participation 
in  the  Rome  Statute  and  are  dedicated  to  preserving 
the Statute’s integrity, supporting the independence of 
the Court and ensuring cooperation with the Court. We 
are also committed to fully implementing the principle 
of complementarity enshrined in the Rome Statute by 
facilitating  effective  and  efficient  interplay  between 
national justice systems and the ICC in the fight against 
impunity.
Mr.  Ronquist  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries: Denmark, 
Finland, Iceland, Norway and my own country, Sweden.
Let me start by thanking the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United Nations 
(see A/68/314). I would also like to thank Judge Song, 
President  of  the  ICC,  personally,  for  providing  a 
thorough presentation of the main issues in the report.
The  Nordic  countries  would  like  to  express  their 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Court  for  its  significant 
contribution  to  the  fight  against  impunity  worldwide. 
From the report and President Song’s introduction, it is 
evident that the caseload of the Court has continued to 
increase. In addition to the eight ongoing proceedings 
or investigations, the Office of the Prosecutor continued 
its preliminary examinations in Afghanistan, Colombia, 
Georgia, Guinea, Honduras, the Republic of Korea and 
Nigeria,  and  opened  a  preliminary  examination  on 
registered vessels of the Union of the Comoros, Greece 
and  the  Kingdom  of  Cambodia.  The  activities  of  the 
Court therefore reach worldwide.
Victims’  issues  are  key  for  the  Nordic  countries, 
especially  regarding  those  suffering  from  sexual  and 
gender-based  crimes,  as  well  as  other  vulnerable 
persons. We encourage States to contribute to the ICC 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims.  Increased  resources  for  the 
Fund will enable victims to truly enjoy their rights.
The  Nordic  countries  warmly  welcome  Côte 
D’Ivoire  as  a  new  State  party  during  the  reporting 
period.  The  quest  for  universal  adherence  to  and 
implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  continues  and 
should  be  intensified.  We  also  stress  the  need  for  all 
States parties, as well as non-State parties that have not 
13-53979
23/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
yet done, so to ratify and fully observe the Agreement 
on the Privileges and Immunities of the ICC as a matter 
of priority.
States have the primary responsibility to investigate 
and prosecute crimes falling under ICC jurisdiction. The 
ICC is a court of last resort. Ideally, it should have no 
cases. We must, however, acknowledge that many States 
lack the resources and capacity to exercise criminal law 
proceedings  for  such  complex  and  large-scale  crimes 
as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
The Nordic countries are prepared to assist those States 
parties that are willing to enhance their national legal 
capacities in that field.
A substantial achievement for the cause of justice 
during  the  reporting  period  was  that  Congolese  war 
crimes suspect, Bosco Ntaganda, became the first person 
subject  to  an  arrest  warrant  of  the  ICC  to  surrender 
himself to the Court. It was also positive to see that the 
United States of America and Rwanda — two non-State 
parties — cooperated with the Court on the matter.
Despite  such  successes,  it  is  a  cause  for  concern 
that the number of outstanding arrest warrants remains 
high. Progress has to be made. States’ cooperation with 
the Court, including the Office of the Prosecutor, must 
improve.  States  parties  have  a  legal  obligation  under 
the  Rome  Statute  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Court. 
Therefore, we urge all States parties to strengthen their 
efforts to execute the orders of the Court and to abstain 
from inviting and receiving suspects that are under an 
arrest warrant of the ICC.
All  States  must  also  fully  comply  with  their 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and Security Council resolutions 1593 (2005) and 1970 
(2011), concerning the situations in Darfur and in Libya. 
The Government of the Sudan and all other parties to 
the conflict in Darfur, as well as the Libyan authorities, 
respectively, must cooperate fully with the Court and 
the Prosecutor.
In  addition  to  the  execution  of  arrest  warrants, 
there  are  other  ways  for  States  and  international 
organizations  to  engage  in  proactive  measures  that 
strengthen the Court. The Nordic countries commend 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  very  clear  guidelines, 
issued in April, on contacts with persons who are the 
subject of arrest warrants or summonses issued by the 
ICC. The guidelines provide that:
“Contacts between United Nations officials and 
persons  who  are  the  subject  of  warrants  of  arrest 
issued by the International Criminal Court should 
be limited to those which are strictly required for 
carrying  out  essential  United  Nations  mandated 
activities.” (A/67/828, annex, p. 2)
The Nordic countries, as well as the European Union, 
apply  a  similar  contact  policy.  By  mainstreaming  our 
ICC policy into regular bilateral diplomacy, we enhance 
the reach and relevance of the Court.
Being  independent  does  not  mean  that  the  Court 
stands  alone.  We  are  heartened  by  the  detailed 
description  in  the  report  of  multifold  communication 
and  interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC.  Particularly,  we  welcome  the  first  open  debate 
in the Security Council on 17 October 2012 on peace 
and  justice,  with  a  special  focus  on  the  role  of  the 
International Criminal Court (see S/PV.6849). We look 
forward to regular follow-up on the topic, in particular on 
how the Council can lend stronger support to the Court 
in cases of non-cooperation with the ICC. The Security 
Council must do its part to ensure accountability when 
gross violations of international humanitarian law and 
human rights law have occurred.
We believe that the Court has delivered upon, if not 
exceeded, our high expectations of 15 years ago, when 
we  adopted  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Court  has  become 
the  most  important  international  actor  in  efforts  to 
fight  impunity  and  develop  international  criminal 
law. We recognize, however, that scepticism has been 
expressed about the Court’s situations and indictments. 
That concern is mainly raised by a number of African 
Governments,  questioning  why  the  eight  situations 
currently  under  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  are  all  from 
Africa.  It  is  important,  however,  to  bear  in  mind  that 
although  the  current  proceedings  before  the  ICC 
concern African situations, the largest numbers of such 
situations  have  been  referred  to  the  Court  by  States 
themselves. Furthermore, the Office of the Prosecutor 
is  conducting  preliminary  examinations  relating  to 
countries in all parts of the world. On that note, let me 
refer to former Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s words 
in a speech this month in Cape Town:
“Let me stress that it is the culture of impunity and 
individuals  who  are  on  trial  at  the  International 
Criminal Court, not Africa.”
To  give  a  fair  reflection  of  the  perception  of  the 
ICC  in  Africa,  we  should  also  recognize  the  general 
support  of  Governments,  civil  society  and  victims  in 
Africa, which remains strong. In that regard, the Nordic 
24/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
countries  welcome  the  Court’s  intention  to  increase 
its  presence  in  the  field.  In  our  view,  that  is  crucial 
for  showing  our  commitment  to  the  victims  and  the 
execution  of  justice  under  the  Rome  Statute  system. 
The ICC must be an institution that is both visible and 
accessible to the people on the ground.
in 
instrumental 
African  countries  were 
the 
negotiations  of  the  Rome  Statute  that  led  to  the 
creation  of  the  ICC.  Today,  the  African  continent  is 
the continent that boasts the highest number of States 
parties — 34 — to the Rome Statute. Africa’s present 
and future commitment to the ICC will remain critical 
to the global success of the Court and to its effectiveness 
and its legitimacy.
All  me  to  take  a  step  back  to  the  drafting  of  the 
Rome  Statute  and  the  main  reason  for  which  the  ICC 
was  established.  I  would  like  to  quote  the  second 
preambular paragraph of the Statute:
“Mindful  that  during  this  century  millions  of 
children,  women  and  men  have  been  victims  of 
unimaginable  atrocities  that  deeply  shock  the 
conscience of humanity”.
Victims  of  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
genocides,  wherever  they  are  found,  deserve  justice. 
But we must do our best to encourage all States to live 
up to their obligations to investigate and prosecute. The 
International Criminal Court was created to take up the 
cases  that  States  were  not  able  or  willing  to  take  up. 
I  am  sure  that  we  all  aim  for  a  world  where  the  ICC 
has become obsolete. But in today’s reality, an effective 
and  independent  ICC  is  needed  and  should  be  fully 
supported by all States.
Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  our  pledge  that  the 
Nordic  countries  will  remain  principal  supporters  of 
the ICC. We are committed to continue working for the 
Court’s  effectiveness,  professionalism,  independence 
and integrity.
Ms.  Orosan  (Romania):  I  would  like  to  start  my 
intervention by thanking President Song for the ninth 
annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(see  A/68/314),  submitted  to  the  United  Nations  in 
accordance with article 6 of the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court. At the outset, I would like stress that 
we fully subscribe to the statement delivered on behalf 
of the European Union.
Romania  continues 
to  strongly  support 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  accomplishing  its 
crucial role in the promotion of the rule of law at the 
international  level  and  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
for  the  most  serious  crimes.  We  are  pleased  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  is  today  not  only  a 
community of States and ideals but a fully functioning 
institution.
The  report  reveals  the  progress  in  the  judicial 
proceedings  both  in  substance  and  in  volume.  We 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor, 
and we regard the new strategic plan released publicly 
this month as an important step to increase the quality 
of its investigations and prosecutions. At the same time, 
we  acknowledge  the  growing  caseload  of  the  Court 
and  we  will  carefully  consider  proposals  to  augment 
its  resources  in  order  to  meet  the  needs  of  a  highly 
performing  justice  body.  We  congratulate  Mr.  Von 
Hebel on his appointment as the new Registrar of the 
Court, and we would like to assure him of Romania’s 
support  as  he  undertakes  his  activities  and  efforts  to 
achieve better coordination and coherence between the 
different organs of the Court.
The  International  Criminal  Court  relies  heavily 
on  the  cooperation  of  the  international  community. 
As a matter of fact, the Court will always rely on the 
cooperation  of  the  States  since  there  is  no  special 
police authority available to it. From that perspective, 
States  should  be  aware  of  their  important  role  in  the 
realization  of  the  international  judicial  act  and  adopt 
measures  to  ensure  full  and  prompt  cooperation  with 
the Court, including with respect to the execution of the 
outstanding arrest warrants listed in the 2013 report, in 
accordance  with  the  legal  obligations  stemming  from 
the  Rome  Statute  and/or  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.
Non-cooperation 
is  not  only  a  violation  of 
international  obligations,  but  it  also  has  the  effect  of 
undermining the efforts of the Court to deliver justice 
and  ensure  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  It  could  also 
affect the Court’s credibility by failing to meet victims’ 
expectations  for 
important 
responsibility  in  seeing  to  the  success  of  the  Court 
lies  with  States  parties,  which  must  act  consistently 
and  persistently  to  support  the  Court’s  activity  and 
preserve  its  independence.  At  the  same  time,  States 
parties  should  creatively  join  efforts  in  fostering  the 
willingness of third States to cooperate. In that respect, 
justice.  Therefore,  an 
13-53979
25/27
A/68/PV.41 
31/10/2013
the dialogue between the ICC and the United Nations 
should also be enhanced.
We  welcome  Côte  d’Ivoire’s  joining  the  Rome 
Statute  in  February  as  its  122nd  party.  We  strongly 
consider that the quest for universality should continue 
and,  in  that  respect,  we  encourage  all  States  that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  become  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  It  is  also  our  belief  that  strengthening  the 
ICC by achieving its universality is the most powerful 
preventive  approach,  reducing  the  risk  of  impunity 
and ensuring the compliance with the most important 
norms of international law.
Romania, as a focal point for achieving universality 
of the Rome Statute, makes every effort to assist parties 
in joining the Rome Statute and will remain engaged in 
those efforts even beyond that capacity. Throughout the 
reporting period, Romania organized a series of events 
in  Bucharest  and  New  York.  The  event  we  organized 
this  summer  in  New  York,  in  collaboration  with  the 
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie,  was 
attended by officials from the Office of the Prosecutor 
of  the  ICC.  The  most  recent  event  that  we  organized 
as  focal  point  was  a  regional  conference  that  took 
place  in  Bucharest  on  17  October.  The  conference 
was dedicated to three key areas relating to the Rome 
Statute and the International Criminal Court, namely, 
universality,  the  Kampala  Amendments  and  the  issue 
of cooperation with the International Criminal Court. 
President  Song  and  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties,  Ambassador  Intelmann,  were  keynote 
speakers at the event, and I would like to thank them 
again for accepting our invitation and for their tireless 
efforts within and beyond the ICC.
I would like to conclude by reiterating Romania’s 
full support to the International Criminal Court and by 
endorsing the conclusion of the report on the need for 
strong, consistent and continuous support for the ICC 
from States and the international community, support 
that  would  permit  that  unique  international  body  to 
fulfil the mandate we have entrusted to it.
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  Cuban  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) (see A/68/314) and 
wishes  to  express  before  the  plenary  once  again  its 
commitment  to  fighting  impunity  against  crimes  that 
affect the international community.
My  delegation  believes  that  the  fight  against 
impunity  should  be  based  on  the  establishment  of  a 
criminal  jurisdiction  that  is  impartial,  non-selective, 
efficient, just and complementary to national systems 
of justice, truly independent and therefore exempt from 
subordination to political interests that might strip it of 
its essence. 
Cuba notes with concern that certain events of the 
past year highlight ongoing problems with the lack of 
autonomy of the International Criminal Court as a result 
of  the  provisions  set  forth  in  article  16  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  the  broad  powers  granted  to  the  Security 
Council  with  regard  to  the  Court’s  work.  Beyond 
stripping the Court of its jurisdiction, this issue violates 
the principle of independence of legal bodies, as well 
as transparency and impartiality in the administration 
of  justice.  Unfortunately,  problems  concerning  this 
matter were not resolved in the outcome of the Review 
Conference on the Rome Statute held in Kampala from 
31  May  to  11  June  2010,  and  the  Court,  as  a  body  of 
international  criminal  jurisdiction,  remains  bound  by 
decisions of other bodies.
reiterates 
that 
The  delegation  of  Cuba 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  should  not 
ignore 
international treaties and the principles of international 
law.  The  Court  should  respect  the  principle  of  law 
relative to the consent of a State to be bound by a treaty, 
as set forth in article 11 of the Vienna Convention on 
the Law of Treaties. Cuba reiterates its serious concern 
over the precedent set by the decisions of the Court in 
which it initiated judicial proceedings against nationals 
of  States  that  are  not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  and 
that  have  not  accepted  its  jurisdiction  in  accordance 
with  article  12  of  the  Statute.  We  must  not  lose  sight 
of  the  fact  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the  ICC  should  be 
kept independent of the political bodies of the United 
Nations and always work in a complementary manner 
to national criminal jurisdictions.
The people of Cuba have been victims of the most 
diverse  forms  of  aggression  for  50  years.  As  a  result 
of the various types of aggression against our country, 
we  have  suffered  the  deaths  of  thousands  of  Cubans, 
with hundreds of families losing their children, parents 
and siblings, in addition to untold economic, financial 
and  material  losses.  However,  the  definition  of  the 
crime of aggression reached in the Review Conference 
in Kampala in no way includes such violations in that 
category of crime.
The definition of the crime of aggression should be 
established along generic lines to include all forms of 
26/27 
13-53979
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.41
aggression that arise in international relations between 
States  and  that  affect  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity 
and  political  independence  of  States.  It  should  not  be 
limited to the use of armed force. Our country reaffirms 
its  resolve  to  fight  against  impunity  and  upholds  its 
commitment  to  international  criminal  justice  and 
its  attachment  to  the  principles  of  transparency, 
independence  and  impartiality,  and  the  unrestricted 
application of and respect for international law.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this agenda item 
for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
13-53979
27/27
