United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
28th plenary meeting
Friday, 4 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.28
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Touré (Guinea), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 03.05 p.m.
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development
Agenda item 21 (continued)
Globalization and interdependence
(e)  International migration and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/190)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/162)
Mr. Sinhaseni (Thailand): At the outset, allow me 
join  others  in  expressing  our  deepest  sympathy  and 
condolences  on  the  tragic  incident  off  the  island  of 
Lampedusa.
Our sincere appreciation goes to the President of the 
General Assembly for convening this important High-
level  Dialogue  to  discuss  the  important  and  dynamic 
issue of international migration.
Thailand  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  (see 
A/68/PV.25).
Migration  involves  benefits  and  challenges  for 
development.  To  manage  migration  in  a  sustainable 
manner,  it  should  be  seen  as  a  dynamic  and  long-
term process. We view this High-level Dialogue as an 
important  part  of  that  process.  We  are  meeting  here 
today  to  build  upon  the  fruitful  discussions  we  have 
had in many different parts of the world in preparation 
for  this  Dialogue.  Thailand  is  proud  and  honoured 
that the discussions of the Asia-Pacific countries took 
place  in  Bangkok.  We  hope  that  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations  arrived  at  there  will  provide  useful 
inputs to this meeting.
The  High-level  Dialogue  is  not  only  a  forum  to 
exchange views on the way forward in migration and 
development.  It  also  highlights  the  importance  of 
cooperation among stakeholders in the ongoing process 
of  deliberating  on  and  shaping  norms  to  address  the 
issue. Norms, however, cannot be established without 
positive  perceptions  of  migration  and  migrants.  The 
migration of workers reduces the pressure in domestic 
labour  markets,  enhances  competition,  allows  greater 
opportunities,  generates  more  income  and  benefit  for 
countries of origin through remittances, and stimulates 
the 
transfer  of  skills  and  knowledge.  However, 
unregulated  migration  creates 
its  own  problems. 
Whatever the case, a more open atmosphere is needed 
for discussions on how to integrate migration policies 
into the national agenda.
Thailand  is  unique  in  being  simultaneously  a 
country  of  origin,  transit  and  destination  for  both 
regular  and  illegal  migrants.  Thus  we  have  always 
had  to  make  tremendous  efforts  to  manage  migration 
in  a  comprehensive  and  holistic  manner.  The  goal  of 
migration management that would guarantee safe and 
humane conditions for migrants must go hand in hand 
with prospects for growth and development. Effective 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50009 (E)
*1350009*
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
and efficient management of migration flows must aim 
at an orderly and predictable movement of migrants.
Predictable  movements,  setting  out  appropriate 
policies  and  more  effective  migration  management 
require  accurate  data  collection,  analysis  and 
dissemination.  Moreover,  cooperation  with  different 
sectors of the economy is vital to better understand the 
changing trends and needs of the labour market and of 
migrants. That will in turn enable a correct formulation 
of migration policy in more forward-looking manner.
It  is  the  responsibility  of  both  the  originating 
and  receiving  countries  to  ensure  safe  migration. 
Migrants  themselves  must  also  take  precautions  so 
that  their  migration  is  not  exploited  by  unscrupulous 
criminals  and  gangs.  We  recognize  that  migrants  and 
their  rights  must  be  protected.  Thailand’s  policies  of 
education for all and universal health coverage extend 
to  foreign  migrants,  even  illegal  migrants  and  their 
families.  The  Thai  Prime  Minister  recently  chaired  a 
meeting between international organizations and Thai 
Government agencies to discuss the issue of the health 
needs of all foreign nationals in the Kingdom.
We  greatly  value  the  contribution  of  various 
regional  consultative  processes.  Thailand  is  an  active 
member  of  various  complementary  initiatives  such  as 
the  Colombo  Process  and  the  Bali  Process  on  People 
Smuggling,  Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  Related 
Transnational Crime. International organizations such 
as  the  International  Organization  for  Migration  and 
the  International  Labour  Organization  have  helped 
to  ensure  that  our  policies  are  keeping  up  with  the 
constantly evolving situation. In addition, the ongoing 
Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development  will 
continue to help to sensitize all stakeholders.
With  our  people-centred  policies,  Thailand  is 
acutely  conscious  that  the  development  of  effective 
labour and migration policies requires the cooperation 
of  all  stakeholders.  Therefore,  we  have  been  working 
closely  in  that  connection  with  the  private  sector 
and  civil  society.  At  the  global  level,  we  hope  that 
the 
linkages  between  migration  and  sustainable 
development  will  gain  greater  recognition  from  the 
international community. We also hope that this High-
level Dialogue will help to generate such a momentum.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  see  migration-related 
factors  adequately  reflected  in  the  relevant  post-2015 
thematic  priorities.  That  would  encourage  greater 
mainstreaming of migration into national development 
policies.  That  would  benefit  not  only  countries  and 
societies,  but,  equally  important,  individual  human 
beings — the migrants themselves.
Mr.  Alhakim  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  (A/68/190), 
which is before the General Assembly today.
to 
thank 
Iraq’s 
I  am  pleased 
international 
development  partners,  especially  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  and  its  Director  General, 
Mr. William Swing, for his fruitful efforts in working 
closely  with  Iraq  on  the  issue  of  Iraqi  migrants.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  add  its  voice  to  that  of  the 
representative of Fiji, who spoke on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China  (see  A/68/PV.25).  I  would  also  like 
to  thank  the  Mexican  delegation  for  their  efforts  in 
facilitating  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  and  the  adoption  of  a 
balanced outcome document (resolution 68/4) reflecting 
the  views  of  the  countries  of  origin,  destination  and 
transit.
they  are 
The  emigration  of  skilled  Iraqis  has  directly  and 
indirectly affected every aspect of Iraq’s development, 
as 
the  main  engine  of  socioeconomic 
development,  particularly  in  the  health  and  education 
sectors and services. It is clear that skilled professionals 
represent  the  national  wealth  and  as  such  must  be 
supported  and  considered  a  priority  of  the  country. 
From  one  perspective,  such  emigration,  such  brain 
drain, constitutes a great loss to Iraq.
Most  migration  is  due  to  the  economic  situation, 
with poverty and unemployment among the main factors. 
Yet  security  issues  resulting  from  the  war  against 
terrorism are among the most important factors to bear 
in  mind.  Therefore,  enhancing  development  and  the 
fight against terrorism can have a great effect on skills 
migration. Iraq has faced great difficulties in attempts 
to acquire precise data on the effects of migration on 
the Iraqi economy, due to lack of research and studies 
on the effect of migration on Iraq’s development.
Iraq  has  carried  out  a  number  of  measures.  First, 
migration  issues  are  being  integrated  into  national 
development  programmes  through  projects  set  up 
to  involve  skilled  migrants.  Secondly,  migration  is 
regulated to make it safe by training migrants. Thirdly, 
we  are  reinforcing  cooperation  and  partnership  with 
international  and  regional  organizations  for  training 
migrants.  Fourthly,  migration  factors  are  integrated 
2/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
through  an  ongoing  data-gathering  process.  Fifthly, 
migration is integrated into development strategies, for 
poverty reduction and education, for example. Sixthly, 
we are taking the measures necessary to safeguard the 
rights of migrants in legislative reforms and by abiding 
by international covenants and agreements.
Due to time limitations, I have delivered a shortened 
statement. The complete version has been distributed to 
members. 
Mr.  Sahebzada  Ahmed  Khan  (Pakistan):  At  the 
very outset, let me express our deep condolences on the 
tragedy  that  struck  the  migrants  yesterday  off  of  the 
Italian coast. The loss of precious lives in search of a 
better tomorrow is a stark reminder of the importance of 
the issues. Pakistan therefore welcomes the convening 
of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development.
We align ourselves with the statement made by the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.25)
Pakistan  is  pleased  to  see  international  migration 
issues move up on the global agenda. We strongly favour 
intensified international cooperation and collaboration 
on international migration issues.
The  Dialogue  should  strengthen 
the  nexus 
between  migration  and  development  through  several 
actions. First, the factors that trigger migration should 
be  addressed.  Second,  we  must  aim  to  develop  an 
integrative  framework  and  regulations 
to  govern 
the  economic,  financial  and  human  rights  aspects 
of  migration.  Third,  we  must  ensure  that  States  and 
the  private  sector  introduce  temporary  migration 
programmes  as  a  means  of  addressing  the  economic 
needs of sending and receiving countries, so as to curb 
illegal  migration.  Fourth,  the  present  international 
legal framework for migrants must be made adequate 
to  respond  to  violations  of  their  rights  and,  more 
importantly,  to  ensure  that  tragedies  like  that  of 
yesterday are minimized. Fifth, a regulatory framework 
must  be  developed  for  the  efficient  remittance  of 
migrant  earnings  to  their  families  back  home,  at 
low  cost.  Sixth,  the  lack  of  capacity  and  the  absence 
of  policy  coherence  and  coordination  on  migration 
issues, at both the national and the international levels, 
must  be  overcome.  Seventh,  we  need  to  undertake 
comprehensive  and  analytical  studies  to  determine 
the  contributions  that  international  migration  and 
migrants make to the development of both sending and 
receiving  countries,  and  lastly,  regional  consultative 
processes  and  their  contribution  to  development  must 
be strengthened.
Pakistan has a large diaspora across the world, which 
has  contributed  significantly  in  the  socioeconomic 
lives of the receiving States. In Pakistan, we are proud 
of  our  diaspora  and  its  very  effective  role  and  links 
with Pakistan. They not only contribute to the receiving 
country, but also remit billions of dollars back to their 
families.
There is also no doubt that the economic benefits 
of international migration are accompanied by a loss of 
human capital and the proverbial brain drain.
As  for  the  future,  Pakistan  believes  that  without 
the  requisite  machinery  and  institutional  support,  it 
will be difficult to make progress on the objectives of 
generating and sustaining the much-needed coherence 
and  coordination  on  migration  issues.  We  therefore 
favour strengthening the Global Migration Group and 
its role in facilitating migration.
Finally, in the context of the post-2015 development 
agenda  —  without  determining 
the  crucial  and 
important role played by official development assistance 
in  catalysing  development  —  we  also  believe  that 
migration and its development impact must form part of 
the enhanced global partnership for development, with 
the requisite targets and goals.
Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): The Ukrainian delegation 
is  pleased  and  honoured  to  participate  today  in 
the  General  Assembly’s  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development.
The  international  discussion  on  migration  and  its 
influence on development is well timed and important. 
International migration is a complex set of issues that 
calls  for  comprehensive  and  collaborative  formulas 
and  solutions.  Therefore,  we  believe  that  in  order  to 
adequately  reflect  its  importance  and  to  hold  a  place 
for it in future international dialogue, the topic should 
be  incorporated  into  the  United  Nations  post-2015 
development agenda.
Nowadays  the  majority  of  Member  States  clearly 
recognize  the  important  links  between  migration  and 
development.  Migrant  workers  play  an  important  role 
in  supporting  the  economy  of  Ukraine,  in  particular. 
According to different sources, between 3 and 5 million 
Ukrainian  citizens  live  abroad.  The  vast  majority 
of  them  are  migrant  workers.  Our  country  is  a  major 
13-50009
3/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
supplier to the labour force of the European Union and 
the Russian Federation.
According  to  the  latest  European  Commission’s 
Annual  Report  on  Immigration  and  Asylum,  about 
204,000  Ukrainian  citizens  received  European  Union 
residency  permits  in  2011,  making  them  the  largest 
group  of  legal  migrants  in  the  European  Union. 
Migrants  send  home  money  that  they  earn  overseas 
to support their families — to help them build homes, 
to send their children to school and to develop family 
businesses.
the 
to 
International  Organization 
According 
for  Migration, 
last  year  Ukrainian  workers  sent 
$7.5 billion to Ukraine. That is $1.5 billion more than 
was invested in Ukraine during 2012. Thus Ukrainian 
labour  migration  has  become  a  major  investor  in  the 
country’s economy. It is very important that those funds 
effectively complement the social function of the State: 
to take care of retired parents, to pay for family health 
care,  to  fund  children’s  education,  to  solve  housing 
problems, and so on. But there is a flip side to that coin.
It  is  well  known  that  external  labour  migration 
is  associated  with  a  number  of  socioeconomic 
factors,  in  particular  the  differences  in  the  levels  of 
economic  development,  wages  and  unemployment  in 
individual  countries,  the  level  of  social  protection, 
and  opportunities  for  productive  employment  in  the 
national labour market.
Unable to fully meet those requirements for its own 
citizens, Ukraine continues to lose its human resources. 
The resulting outflow of citizens affects demographic 
development  in  Ukraine.  The  population  decreases, 
which in turn causes demographic disparity — a gradual 
decline  in  the  young  and  middle-aged  populations, 
an  increase  in  the  aged  population  and  a  noticeable 
reduction in fertility rates.
Migration  also  causes  numerous  problems  for  the 
economy and in the social sphere, including the outflow 
of  skilled  labour,  sometimes  on  a  non-returnable 
basis.  There  is  the  risk  of  violation  of  the  rights  and 
freedoms  of  Ukrainian  citizens  abroad,  especially 
those who are illegally employed. There is also the risk 
of undermining family relationships and of an increase 
in  the  number  of  children  who  need  extra  care  from 
the State, since they are growing up in families where 
one  or both parents are  working  abroad.  The  massive 
outflow  of  young  people  also  results  in  the  loss  of 
fresh ideas and innovation and the best talents for the 
future. In a post-industrial society, neither oil nor gas 
but  human  beings  are  our  most  valuable  and  scarce 
resource. Therefore, the present competition for human 
resources is extremely bitter.
Ukraine 
is  constantly  developing 
its  State 
institutions  and  legislation  in  order  to  address  those 
developments.  We  have  adopted  modern  migration 
legislation,  part  of  which  was  a  result  of 
the 
implementation of the European Union Action Plan on 
Visa Liberalization. We have created a State migration 
service, 
international  agreements  on 
human rights into our national legislation, and developed 
international cooperation in the area of migration.
incorporated 
Knowing  quite  well  that  the  main  factor  that  can 
slow  labour  migration  is  the  creation  of  well-paid 
work posts, the Government of Ukraine is undertaking 
appropriate measures in that direction. We believe that 
the  strategic  objective  of  our  activity  should  be  the 
return of migrants to their homeland and the creation of 
conditions for the most productive and efficient use of 
the experience gained abroad.
On the other hand, the protection of the rights and 
interests of our citizens abroad is a core priority of our 
State. That is a systematic and complex activity, falling 
mostly within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs. It has three main prongs: the establishment of a 
legal framework, cooperation with foreign Ukrainians 
and migrants, and the provision of consular protection 
to Ukrainian migrants abroad.
Ukraine  contributes  to  the  global  process  of 
eliminating  unequal  treatment  of  migrants,  displaced 
persons and refugees while combating, domestically and 
internationally, criminal flows and human trafficking. 
We emphasize that building partnerships on migration, 
ensuring  cross-border  cooperation  and  stimulating  an 
open  exchange  of  best  practices  are  the  key  elements 
for addressing and minimizing the negative effects of 
migration.
Therefore, today we encourage all Member States 
to  reaffirm  their  commitment  to  effectively  seize  the 
opportunities  and,  most  importantly,  to  address  the 
challenges  that  international  migration  presents  to 
countries of origin, transit and destination.
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus):  Let  me  first  congratulate 
the  President  for  convening  this  timely  meeting.  We 
also extend our appreciation to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his efforts in focusing political attention at 
a high level on the many linkages between development 
4/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
and  migration.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
report (A/68/190) and his eight-point agenda for action.
Cyprus  fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the observer for the European Union on behalf 
of its 28 member States (see A/68/PV.25).
Since  the  first  High-level  Dialogue,  in  2006,  we 
have  witnessed  some  tangible  progress.  Remittance 
flows  provide  a  good  example.  As  the  Secretary-
General  indicates  in  his  report,  migrant  remittances 
grew to $401 billion just last year. Thus international 
migration  has  proved  during  the  last  six  years  that  it 
can  be  mutually  beneficial  to  countries  of  origin  and 
reception, to developing and developed countries alike, 
and to South-South cooperation. It has become a major 
factor in shaping the global landscape and reality, and a 
powerful force for social change and cultural interaction 
in 
the  countries  concerned.  Migration  provides 
migrants themselves with significant opportunities for 
a  better  life.  Today  there  is  more  clarity  and  a  better 
understanding of the many and complex effects on the 
development of countries of origin and destination.
The  first  High-level  Dialogue  was  an  historic 
event. By recognizing the importance of international 
migration to development, the international community 
has  accepted  the  need  to  establish  a  more  coherent 
political  response  to  this  phenomenon.  The  2006 
Dialogue brought the international community one step 
further by creating the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development  and  by  allowing  civil  society  to  have  a 
voice,  substantial  engagement  and  cooperation  with 
member  States.  The  Global  Forum,  as  the  Secretary-
General states in his report, after six years of operation, 
has  become  indispensable.  It  attracts  more  than 
150  States  and  fosters  a  common  understanding  of 
migration.
Cyprus  fully  supports  the  open  and  transparent 
focus  established  by  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration 
and  Development  and  appreciates  the  opportunity 
it  provides  for  a  frank  and  focused  dialogue  and  for 
sharing  experiences  and  best  practices.  We  firmly 
believe that the Forum should be further reinforced and 
strengthened in order to improve its effectiveness.
Numerous  are  the  challenges  of  the  development 
aspect of migration, and addressing them successfully 
is  not  an  easy  task.  Both  countries  of  origin  and 
destination must deal with issues such as brain drain, 
protection  of  migrants’  rights,  minority  integration, 
religion,  citizenship,  xenophobia,  human  smuggling 
and trafficking, and national security.
Human  rights  and  the  protection  of  migrants, 
especially of women and children, should be respected 
and  promoted  by  all.  They  should  form  an  integral 
part  of  the  policies  at  all  levels  —  local,  national, 
regional and international — and measures should be 
adopted  against  illegal  migration,  human  trafficking 
and  smuggling.  At  the  same  time,  there  should  be 
measures to ensure that migrants who, in search for a 
better life for themselves and their families, fall victim 
to smugglers and traffickers are given help, protection 
and assistance. In that context, I would like to extend 
our deepest condolences on yesterday’s tragic incident, 
which caused many migrant deaths.
Cyprus  is  a  country  whose  geostrategic  position 
has  exposed  it  to  strong  mixed  migratory  pressures 
that  are  aggravated  by  its  limited  geographic  and 
demographic size. On the one hand, our close proximity 
to a sensitive geographic area — one plagued by serious 
political  problems,  wars,  conflicts  and  economic 
instability  —  results  in  the  fact  that  Cyprus  receives 
illegal  immigrants  and  asylum-seekers  in  numbers 
disproportionate to our capacity.
Despite  pressure  from  mixed  migratory  flows  in 
recent  years,  we  have  made  significant  strides  in  the 
management of those flows. We have managed to adopt 
and have commenced the implementation of action plans 
for the integration of migrants into Cypriot society and 
for  combating  trafficking  in  human  beings.  We  have 
been  able  to  greatly  improve  our  asylum  system,  and 
we  are  also  trying  to  effectively  address  the  multiple 
challenges  of  those  phenomena  within  the  context  of 
the European Union. One of the key challenges we face 
today is related to the voluntary return of migrants in 
conjunction  with  the  encouragement  of  mobility  and 
cooperation with countries of origin.
The  importance  of  migration  for  the  post-2015 
development agenda cannot be overstressed. Migration 
is  a  key  driver  and  an  enabler  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  a  key  factor  for 
sustainable development. We need a coherent, humane 
and  age-  and  gender-sensitive  rights  and  facts-based 
global  agenda  that  can  address  today’s  realities.  It 
is  a  truly  global  challenge  that  requires  a  global  and 
collective response. Only by working together can we 
succeed.
13-50009
5/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
Ms.  De  Sciolli  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me  to  express,  with  great  feeling,  Guatemala 
regret  at  the  loss  of  many  human  lives  off  the  Italian 
island  of  Lampedusa.  That  tragedy  demonstrates  the 
dangers faced by migrants seeking a better life.
As we approach the closing of the plenary meeting 
and  the  round  tables  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development, Guatemala, 
as  a  country  of  origin,  transit,  destination  and  return 
of  migrants,  wishes 
the  following 
recommendations.
to  contribute 
First,  for  migration  to  be  properly  integrated  into 
the United Nations post-2015 development agenda, there 
must be coherent public policies that include the migrant 
not  only  as  an  object,  but  also  as  a  subject  of  human 
development.  International  migration  management 
must  safeguard  at  all  times  the  protection  of  and 
respect for human rights, equality and sustainability, in 
particular those of the most vulnerable — children and 
adolescents, especially those who are not accompanied 
by adults, women, and people with various disabilities.
Secondly,  as  migration  is  a  universal  issue,  the 
generation and exchange of information and statistical 
data on migration should be encouraged for the design 
of  integrated  State  and  regional  public  policies  in 
countries of origin, transit and destination.
Thirdly,  with  equity  as  a  guiding  principle  in  the 
nexus between migration and development, sustainable 
development begins and ends with ensuring the safety, 
health  and  education  of  children  and  adolescents, 
regardless of their migratory status.
Fourthly,  only  by  building  strong  States  can  we 
ensure the right to not migrate and eradicate irregular 
migration.  For  that  we  need  the  broad  and  inclusive 
participation  of  various  governmental  actors,  such  as 
those  in  social  development,  education,  work,  health, 
foreign  affairs,  migration  and  governance,  among 
others.
Fifthly,  the  objective  of  discussions  on  migration 
and  development  should  be 
improvement  of 
migration  governance  at  local,  national,  regional  and 
global  levels.  It  is  important  to  involve  the  diasporas 
in the migrant integration and reintegration processes, 
developing 
them, 
government institutions, civil society, the private sector 
and international partners.
strategic  partnerships 
the 
among 
Sixthly, development and migration policies involve 
processes for establishing human mobility that promote 
respectable  work  for  all  migrant  workers  and  their 
progress towards full and transnational citizenship. In 
that  context,  the  safety  of  migrants  must  be  ensured, 
as  they  are  affected  by  organized  crime.  Therefore 
it  is  necessary  to  implement  effective  mechanisms 
for  access  to  justice  for  migrants,  regardless  of  their 
migration status.
In  that  connection,  we  recognize  the  contribution 
of  criminal  investigation  institutions  in  our  region 
in  addressing  the  forced  disappearances  of  Central 
American  migrants.  That  criminal  phenomenon  has 
gained strength in recent years and is related to other 
crimes such as drug trafficking, organized crime and 
human trafficking and slavery. We also recognize the 
role  played  by  humanitarian  institutions,  such  as  the 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  as  well 
as  partnerships  developed  with  State  institutions  and 
civil society in the search for disappeared migrants and 
unidentified remains.
Migration’s  fundamental  role  in  the  achievement 
of  many  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
is  undeniable.  The  human,  social  and  economic 
dimensions  of  migration  must  have  a  central  place  in 
the post-2015 development agenda. Guatemala believes 
that by ensuring access to justice, health and education 
for all migrants and their families, in particular the most 
vulnerable, we can ensure their full human development 
and the sustainable development of our societies.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Member  States, 
United  Nations  entities  and  civil-society  participants 
for their efforts, in particular the delegation of Mexico, 
in  its  capacity  as  facilitator  of  the  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development  (resolution  68/4),  which  was  adopted 
yesterday and with which we fully align ourselves.
Mr.  Estremé  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  I  wish  to  express,  on  behalf  of  Argentina, 
sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the 
tragedy that took place near the island of Lampedusa. 
That tragedy is another demonstration of the importance 
and  need  to  hold  those  discussions  in  the  framework 
of the United Nations and particularly to focus on the 
issue of international migration from a perspective of 
human rights and of the urgency of working to change 
the paradigm.
6/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
The Argentine Republic would like to align itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  by  the  delegation  of 
Fiji  (see  A/68/PV.25)  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and  China,  and  the  delegation  of  Cuba,  on  behalf  of 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States(CELAC).
At the national level, I would like to underscore the 
fact that 10 years ago Argentina significantly changed 
its international migration paradigm, which allowed it 
to move from an anachronistic, restrictive and control-
based approach to one based on rights. For Argentina, 
everyone  has  the  inalienable  right  to  migrate  and 
all  migrants  have  rights.  We  ensure  unconditional 
respect for migrants’ human rights, regardless of their 
migratory  status,  and  we  reject  their  criminalization. 
We condemn all acts of xenophobia, discrimination and 
racism.
Argentina  understands  that  the  motivation  for 
migration  resides  in  the  forces  of  globalization  and 
the  structural  conditions  and  policies  of  origin  and 
destination  countries.  Therefore,  we  do  not  consider 
migrants to be mere factors of production, but instead 
we emphasize their human dimension — their condition 
as  people  who  have  had  to  leave  their  countries  on 
account  of  those  forces.  We  integrate  them  into  the 
economy, work and production but also ensure that they 
have social and labour rights, have access to health care 
and  education,  receive  equal  treatment,  are  respected 
for  their  culture  and  enjoy  freedom  in  the  broadest 
sense of the word.
job 
insecurity  and 
Irregular  migration  status  encourages  unequal 
the 
treatment  and 
threatens 
fundamental  rights  of  people.  We  suggest 
that 
regularization be regarded as a crucial factor for human 
development and for the mutual integration of migrants 
into  host  societies.  The  establishment  of  measures 
providing  easy  access  to  regularization  in  Argentina 
has  led  to  a  substantial  decrease  in  undocumented 
labour,  as  well  as  increased  access  to  social  security. 
We  underscore  the  negative  consequences  of  those 
forms of admission of migrant workers that are aimed 
at transforming them into cheap and flexible labour. In 
that regard, we urge the States that still have not done so 
to ratify the International Convention on the Protection 
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of 
Their Families of 1990.
We believe that the underlying causes of international 
migration  that  derive  from  underdevelopment  will  be 
resolved  only  in  a  fairer,  more  supportive  and  more 
equitable  international  system.  Therefore,  this  issue 
should  be  approached  together  with  the  promotion  of 
genuine development in all nations.
We reiterate our belief that not enough consideration 
has been given in the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development to our region’s proposal on migration and 
development.  We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly 
is the right place to engage in a comprehensive global 
discussion  of  a  political  nature  on  universal  human 
mobility  leading  to  the  adoption  of  an  international 
convention on international migration.
Furthermore, the human rights perspective should 
be  a  cross-cutting  theme  that  is  common  to  all  the 
mandates and programmes of the bodies and agencies 
of the United Nations system on international migration 
and  its  structural  causes.  The  participation  of  civil-
society organizations in the discussions that are taking 
place  in  various  forums  on  new  migration  tendencies 
is  of  particular  importance  in  order  to  enrich  those 
discussions.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underscore  that 
the  Declaration  of  Buenos  Aires,  addressed  to  this 
Dialogue, was recently introduced in the context of the 
South  American  Conference  on  Migrations.  We  urge 
members  to  pay  special  attention  to  the  new  way  of 
conceptualizing  international  migration  that  is  being 
developed in South America and is starting to take hold 
in CELAC.
Our statement will be circulated in its entirety.
Mr. Nduhuura (Uganda): I thank the President for 
convening  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. The adoption by consensus 
of  resolution  61/208  in  2006  showed  Member  States’ 
acknowledgement  of  the  significant  linkages  between 
international migration and development.
The Dialogue presents a unique opportunity for us 
to  further  identify  the  ways  and  means  to  maximize 
the  development  benefits  of  international  migration 
and to reduce its negative impacts. It is essential that 
we  exchange  views  on  an  array  of  important  issues, 
including  the  governance  of  international  migration, 
the  role  of  migration  in  sustainable  development  and 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  Member  States  in 
managing migratory flows.
The Dialogue also offers a platform to bridge our 
differences,  along  North-South  or  origin-destination 
lines,  with  a  view  to  collectively  harnessing  the 
13-50009
7/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
contributions of migration to development. It is being 
held  at  a  critical  time,  as  we  approach  the  target 
date  of  2015  for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, and as negotiations are under way 
on the post-2015 development agenda.
and 
development, 
Uganda  welcomes  the  efforts  by  the  international 
community to address various aspects of international 
migration 
different 
initiatives, both within the United Nations system and 
through other processes, particularly the Global Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development,  regional  processes 
and  relevant  organizations,  such  as  the  International 
Organization for Migration.
through 
the 
We 
recognize  and  appreciate 
important 
contribution made by migrants and the diaspora to the 
socioeconomic development of their countries of origin 
and  residence,  in  terms  of  financial  and  intellectual 
input  and  skills  transfer,  as  well  as  social  capital.  In 
Uganda,  remittances  from  the  diaspora  currently 
amount to about $800 million per year and constitute an 
important source of private capital and transfer earnings. 
The Government continues to encourage the Ugandan 
diaspora to invest in the country’s development and is 
in the process of operationalizing a diaspora bond.
We therefore stress the need to promote conditions 
for cheaper, faster and safer transfers of remittances in 
both  source  and  recipient  countries.  Uganda  calls  for 
greater commitment by the international community to 
respect  and  protect  the  human  rights  of  all  migrants, 
in accordance with the International Convention on the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members of Their Families. We would also like to stress 
the  importance  of  stepping  up  efforts  to  prevent  and 
combat human trafficking and to protect the victims.
One of the effective ways through which this can be 
done is by ratifying and implementing the international 
instruments  on  the  prevention  and  combating  of 
smuggling  and  trafficking  in  human  beings,  as  well 
as  by  establishing  or  upgrading  national  and  regional 
anti-human-trafficking policies.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): At the outset, I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  President 
for  convening  this  high-level  meeting,  which  is  both 
important and timely, given the increasing prominence 
of  the  issue  of  migration  and  development.  Member 
States  will  have  the  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  the 
progress  made  in  the  global  discussion  on  migration 
policies  and  to  address  future  challenges.  Before  1 
go  any  further,  my  delegation  wishes  to  join  others 
in offering our condolences to the families of victims 
of the tragedy near Lampedusa island in Sicily, which 
has so far claimed the lives of more than 100 migrants. 
Malaysia  also  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement made by Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.25).
As  a  country  that  is  strategically  located  in  the 
South-East  Asia  region,  which  has  enjoyed  sustained 
economic growth, Malaysia is only too aware of the role 
that migration can play in the process of development 
and  the  difficulties  that  phenomenon  entails.  For 
Malaysia, the main challenge is to balance the need to 
maximize the economic benefits of migration and the 
desire  to  protect  the  interests  of  all  those  concerned. 
We believe that, in order to achieve that balance, it is 
crucial to ensure that migratory flows are managed in an 
orderly way. In that regard, Malaysia’s policy on foreign 
workers is premised on the need to manage migration 
in cooperation with migrant sending countries so as to 
benefit everybody.
Malaysia  recognizes  the  significant  contributions 
made by migrant labour to a country’s productivity and 
its  economic  development.  In  that  regard,  continuous 
cooperation  with  sending  countries  has  been  forged 
in  order  to  ensure  that  labour  migration  benefits  all 
stakeholders  involved,  in  particular,  migrant  sending 
and recipient countries, employers, documented migrant 
workers  and  civil  society.  Migration  is  inherently 
a  regional  and  global  issue  that  requires  concerted 
efforts,  mutual  understanding  and  respect.  In  view 
of  that,  Malaysia  attaches  a  great  deal  of  importance 
to  regional  and  international  cooperation  aimed  at 
addressing the challenges of migration.
Malaysia  believes  that  the  benefits  of  the  process 
of  globalization  have  to  be  shared  equally  between 
migrant sending and recipient countries. In that regard, 
policies  and  measures  at  the  global  level  must  meet 
the  needs  of  all  parties,  and  they  must  be  formulated 
and  implemented  with  the  effective  participation  of 
everyone involved.
Likewise, the issue of remittances is a crucial one 
for migrants and correlates with global development. In 
that regard, I wish to emphasize that Malaysia imposes 
no  restrictions  on  migrant  workers  remitting  money 
back  home.  Based  on  figures  released  by  the  World 
Bank  in  2011,  I  can  say  that  Malaysia  is  towards  the 
top 20 countries in the world, with a total of 2.4 million 
migrants.  Those  migrants  remitted  approximately 
8/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
$6.8 billion in 2009, which has contributed indirectly 
to the growth of developed countries.
To conclude, I wish to congratulate all delegations 
for successfully finalizing the talks on the Declaration 
(resolution  68/4),  which  was  adopted  at  the  opening 
of this High-level Dialogue. Malaysia is committed to 
contributing more towards the progress of international 
migration  and  development.  Regarding  the  protection 
of  the  human  rights  of  migrants,  foreign  workers 
in  Malaysia  enjoy  full  protection  of  their  human 
rights,  in  accordance  with  Malaysian  laws.  Malaysia 
participated  in  the  negotiation  of  the  Declaration  and 
wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the Declaration, 
in accordance with our national policies and laws.
Mr. Cancela (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Allow 
me at the outset to express my condolences with regard 
to the tragedy that took place yesterday, costing many 
migrants their lives. Uruguay also aligns itself with the 
statement made by the delegation of Fiji on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25).
My country attaches importance to the process of 
establishing the post-2015 development agenda and in 
particular to the talks which have already started. The 
talks are particularly relevant, since despite the progress 
made  in  promoting  dialogue  and  cooperation  at  the 
global  level,  obstacles  remain  in  terms  of  integrating 
the issue of migration in the framework of development 
and  in  broader  sectoral  policies,  as  well  as  in  global 
development agendas for development.
With regard to policies on migration, the effective 
protection  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  has  still 
not  been  achieved,  nor  has  there  been  a  significant 
change  in  public  opinion  on  migration.  In  general, 
the media continues to focus on security, the issue of 
competition for jobs and the difficulties of integrating 
migrants within their host communities. That problem 
is  particularly  important  in  the  light  of  the  real  and 
growing  human  mobility  in  our  societies,  which  are 
more and more transnational in nature.
In that regard, Uruguay considers the second High-
level Dialogue on Migration and Development to be a 
decision-making forum for achieving a strategic vision 
of migration in the post-2015 international agenda. For 
our country, it is important that the issue of migration 
is  being  addressed  at  the  United  Nations  and  that  it 
is  recognized  as  a  factor  that  can  make  development 
possible,  addressing  it  in  terms  of  human  rights  and 
gender.
The contributions of migrants to local development 
in  their  host  communities  should  be  recognized.  We 
must  also  recognize  the  importance  of  integrating 
migrants into those policies, which should take a rights-
based approach that specifically combats xenophobia, 
including in education.
Also,  enabling  universal  access  to  health  care, 
information  and  education  should  become  a  priority, 
particularly in terms of sexual and reproductive health, 
especially  for  young  people,  women,  children  and 
other  vulnerable  groups.  In  that  connection,  Uruguay 
highlights the importance of promoting the ratification 
of the International Convention on the Protection of the 
Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their 
Families.
We recognize that the link between migration and 
development  goes  beyond  the  mere  economic  aspect; 
it  should  be  approached  in  a  cross-cutting  way,  by 
including its human, social, cultural and environmental 
aspects. We must highlight the fact that the relationship 
between  migration,  development  and  human  rights 
is  not  limited  to  a  discussion  about  remittances  and 
private capital flows, which can in no way be seen as 
part of official development assistance.
We emphasize the need to manage the discussion of 
migration in the United Nations properly, highlighting 
the importance of avoiding duplication and establishing 
a  new  body  within  the  Organization  responsible  for 
migration,  which  would  work  hand  in  hand  with  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration,  the  only 
international  organization  with  an  exclusive  mandate 
in  terms  of  migration  and  with  almost  universal 
membership. It is also necessary to step up our efforts 
to coordinate the various forums that already exist and 
to reassert that the legitimacy of those bodies is related 
directly to their ability to foster democratic discussion 
of the contributions made to migration by all regions.
Ms. Byaje (Rwanda): Allow me first to express my 
sincere condolences to the families of the victims who 
perished yesterday off Lampedusa island on a journey in 
which they had placed their hopes for a brighter future. 
Such  tragedies  remind  us  of  our  moral  obligation  to 
help the most vulnerable and call for concerted efforts 
to  alleviate  the  negative  impact  and  risks  associated 
with  migration.  My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made by the representative of the G-77 and 
China (see A/68/PV25) and endorses the position of the 
African Union and the least developed countries.
13-50009
9/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
From the outset I would like to thank the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  timely 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development, which indicates that migration has moved 
to centre stage in development policy discussions after 
decades of being overlooked. For most of the past years, 
migration  has  been  portrayed  in  development  circles 
in  largely  negative  terms  and  identified  as  one  of  the 
problems that development aims to address in the world.
However,  as  far  back  as  one  can  go  in  history, 
there  has  always  been  a  nexus  between  migration 
and development, both for countries of origin and for 
countries of destination. It is high time for the potentially 
positive role of migration in the development process to 
be  recognized,  as  well  as  the  contribution  of  migrant 
workers through remittances, the transfer of knowledge 
and  skills,  and  the  development  of  transnational 
networks.
At this high-level meeting I would like to reiterate 
what those who preceded me have said in reference to 
the  rights  of  migrant  workers.  We  have  to  admit  that 
migrants  are  drivers  of  innovation.  Countries  should 
therefore  strengthen  the  protection  of  migrant  rights 
in the workplace. The time is right for Member States 
to  tackle  the  discussion  of  international  migration 
and  development  in  a  more  constructive  and  more 
transformative  manner.  Let  us  address  the  real  issues 
affecting  migrants,  in  particular  the  relegation  of 
migrants to shacks of discrimination, xenophobia and 
racism, which lead to the loss of many precious lives. 
It is urgent and relevant to try to move the discussion 
forward  by  urging  Member  States  to  incorporate 
migration into their policy debates. Let us address the 
issue, bearing in mind that we are dealing with human 
beings, particularly the most vulnerable people in our 
societies,  especially  women  and  children,  who  are  in 
no  way  criminals  but  rather  individuals  who  seek  to 
overcome adverse conditions by exploring new horizons 
for a better tomorrow.
Human mobility should therefore be recognized as 
a fundamental component of people’s freedoms. Let us 
strongly  condemn  the  politicization  of  the  immigrant 
issue. Indeed, some countries have looked at the issue 
of migration using a political mirror whereby politicians 
change  migration  policies  to  feed  their  own  political 
agendas.  That  has  had  adverse  effects  on  immigrants 
around the world. African Governments must strive for 
a  comprehensive  approach  to  migration,  in  particular 
by  building  partnerships  and  ensuring  coordinated 
action  to  build  capacities,  including  the  management 
of migration. In that regard, civil society will need to 
play a critical role. It is important to stress the power of 
partnership and strategic cooperation and to emphasize 
the fundamental aim of achieving equal treatment and 
fundamental human rights as well as labour rights for 
migrants.
Let  me  just  mention  a  few  steps  my  country  has 
undertaken  in  its  attempts  to  deal  with  this  issue. 
Rwanda values people irrespective of their country of 
origin. In that regard, Rwanda has put in place a no-visa 
policy  for  Africans  who  want  to  travel  to  Rwanda.  A 
national  from  any  African  country  does  not  require 
a  visa  to  enter  Rwanda.  In  addition,  nationals  of  any 
member of the East African Community, a subregional 
body to which Rwanda belongs, have an automatic work 
permit and, effective January 2014, citizens of the East 
African Community will require only a regular identity 
card  to  travel  within  the  East  African  Community 
region.
Thanks 
to 
the  end  of 
the  bad  politics  of 
discrimination that was the root cause of emigration in 
Rwanda,  the  migratory  movement  has  been  reversed. 
Indeed, as all causes of fear have been eliminated, we 
are currently witnessing a massive influx of Rwandans 
from  the  diaspora,  who  are  voluntarily  returning  to 
their  motherland.  Since  1994,  more  than  3.4  million 
people  have  been  repatriated  and  have  been  helped 
to  reintegrate  into  their  communities.  Beginning  on 
30 June 2013, the cessation clause to end the problem of 
Rwandan refugees entered into force, and there are also 
mechanisms in place to help those Rwandans wishing 
to stay abroad to become involved in national life.
Finally,  the  promotion  of  international  relations 
based  on  mutual  respect,  cooperation  and  mutually 
beneficial  economic  exchange  has  attracted  many 
migrant workers from neighbouring countries. Rwanda 
benefits tremendously from diaspora remittances. Last 
year alone, such contributions amounted to $175 million. 
All  those  initiatives  globally  militate  in  favour  of 
including the issue of migration and development in the 
post-2015 development agenda to mitigate the effects of 
its absence from the Millennium Development Goals.
Mr.  Tupouniua 
(Tonga):  The  delegation  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Tonga  conveys  its  appreciation  to 
the  President  for  convening  this  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
and  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  including 
that crucial issue in his report entitled “A life of dignity 
10/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
for all” (A/68/202). The Tongan delegation joins other 
delegations  in  expressing  its  condolences  and  prayers 
to the families of the victims following the tragedy that 
occurred on the Italian island of Lampedusa yesterday. 
The Tongan delegation also wishes to align itself with 
the statement made by Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China.
It has been seven years since the inaugural High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
which provided global attention to the nexus between 
international  migration  and  development.  Indeed, 
we  have  this  important  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the 
progress  made  to  date  at  the  national,  regional  and 
global levels, while focusing on the range of outstanding 
issues and challenges that still need to be addressed.
Tonga, as a sending State, has more people living 
outside its shores than in country. As both a transit and 
a receiving State, Tonga is fully aware that international 
migration  is  a  multidimensional  reality  of  major 
relevance  for  the  development  of  countries  of  origin, 
transit and destination.
Tonga is a mature migration-remittance economy, 
with  remittances  representing  around  39  per  cent  of 
the  gross  domestic  product.  Remittances  constitute, 
therefore,  an  important  source  of  private  capital  and 
represent  a  major  contribution  to  the  economy.  They 
improve  income  distribution,  alleviate  poverty  and 
increase  the  level  of  savings.  They  also  stimulate 
business activities with higher levels of investments in 
education and skills development.
In recent years, however, as the level of remittances 
has declined, mostly as a result of the global financial 
and  economic  crisis,  the  question  arises  as  to  what 
mechanisms can be put in place to buffer the impacts 
on both migrants and their families. In that connection, 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge 
the exemplary work of the International Organization 
for  Migration,  particularly  its  office  in  Canberra, 
Australia, with which Tonga works closely.
Labour mobility is an important vehicle for making 
good  on  commitments  to  pro-poor  strategies,  such  as 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  other  global 
commitments  to  implementing  national  sustainable 
development  strategies  and,  in  particular,  progress 
towards  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In  order 
to enhance the prospect for labour mobility, attention 
should be focused on increasing the level of investment 
in the development of transferable skills.
For  countries  such  as  Tonga,  the  migration  of 
highly skilled persons has affected development efforts, 
leading to the consideration of circular migration. At a 
regional level, mechanisms are being established for the 
recognition of qualifications across the Pacific Ocean. 
That includes a reciprocal beneficial relationship with 
our development partners Australia and New Zealand 
through  seasonal  worker  schemes,  by  which  Tongan 
workers are able to find temporary employment in those 
countries,  contributing  both  to  economic  production 
and to the remittance economies back home. The same 
initiative is also being explored with Papua New Guinea 
and its mining industry.
While  recognizing  the  important  nexus  between 
international migration and development, Tonga is well 
aware of the social and cultural challenges associated 
with  it.  Support  has  therefore  been  provided  at  a 
regional level to deal with some of those issues, such as 
the growing number of deportees and its implications.
Our  experiences  with  the  cross-cutting  nature  of 
international  migration  has  led  to  our  addressing  it 
in  a  coherent,  comprehensive  and  balanced  manner, 
while  integrating  development  with  due  regard  to 
social,  economic  and  environmental  dimensions  and 
respecting human rights. We also recognize the need to 
consider the role that environmental factors may play 
in migration.
Tonga  supports  the  call  for  reliable  migration 
statistics  and  data  analysis,  including,  when  possible, 
on  the  contributions  of  migrants  to  development  in 
both  origin  and  destination  countries.  That  analysis 
could facilitate the design of evidence-based policy and 
decision-making  in  all  relevant  aspects  of  economic, 
social and environmental development.
We wish to acknowledge with gratitude the efforts 
and  support  of  our  Pacific  regional  institutions  and 
the  cooperation  with  relevant  United  Nations  systems 
in  efforts  to  improve  the  performance  of  existing 
institutions  and  frameworks,  as  well  as  in  partnering 
with the relevant stakeholders involved in international 
migration  and  development  at  both  the  regional  and 
global levels. That includes regional and international 
support  for  national  efforts  to  prevent  and  combat 
human trafficking and protect victims of trafficking.
Finally, Tonga would also like to acknowledge the 
support  and  close  cooperation  of  civil  society  with 
regard to the challenges and opportunities in order to 
find  adequate  responses  to  international  migration. 
13-50009
11/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
Moreover,  Tonga  encourages  promoting  the  well-
being  of  migrants  and  their  integration  into  their 
societies, especially at times of conditions of extreme 
vulnerability, and seeks the support of the international 
community for the efforts of such organizations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 47/4, of 16 October 1992, I 
call on the observer of the International Organization 
for Migration.
Mr.  Swing 
(International  Organization 
for 
Migration)  (spoke  in  French):  With  your  permission, 
Mr.  President,  I  will  speak  first  in  my  capacity  as 
Director General of the International Organization for 
Migration  (IOM)  and  then  as  President  of  the  Global 
Migration Group (GMG).
(spoke in English)
It  is  an  honour  to  take  part,  on  behalf  of  the 
International Organization for Migration, in this second 
-ever  High-level  Dialogue  that  the  General  Assembly 
has  held  on  this  issue.  As  the  global  lead  agency  on 
migration,  IOM  today  comprises  of  151  member 
States,  with  about  9,000  staff  deployed  in  more  than 
470 field locations in 175 countries, doing about 3,000 
projects  a  year.  IOM  is  daily  assisting  Governments 
and millions of migrants and their families around the 
world,  including  those  who  are  caught  up  in  some  of 
the current disasters in the world. We thus have a very 
clear view of the tremendous and growing importance 
of migration.
Migration  is  a  mega-trend  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  We  know  that  jobs  cannot  be  filled,  skills 
will  not  be  available,  and  economies  cannot  flourish 
without the free flow of people to get there. So in this 
period  of  the  largest  human  movement  in  history,  we 
can no longer think about our economies, our societies 
or our cultures without thinking about human mobility. 
Migration  today  is  a  reality  for  all,  irrespective 
of  whether  or  not  we  ourselves  move.  Migration’s 
increasing visibility and relevance is also reflected in 
the growth of our organization. For example, we have 
almost doubled our membership, from 90 at the turn of 
the century to about 151 today, as mentioned earlier.
Migration affects all of us. As a global community, 
we have come far since the first High-level Dialogue, 
in 2006, but there is a long way to go. Seven years ago, 
the interest in migration was at a very early stage. Since 
then  —  through  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development  and  the  Global  Migration  Group,  along 
with the dynamic leadership of Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  Peter  Sutherland,  as  well  as 
relevant regional and other forums — the discourse on 
migration has evolved to a very deep recognition of the 
fundamental link between migration and development 
and  the  parallel  imperative  of  protecting  the  human 
rights  of  migrants  so  they  may  realize  their  full 
development potential.
It  is  striking  that  the  great  twenty-first-century 
challenges  are  starting  to  look  very  similar  around 
the  world.  Competition  for  labour,  skills  and  talent  is 
now  a  global  phenomenon,  as  is  the  need  to  manage 
inequalities, diversity and social cohesion and to adapt 
to an increasingly mobile and urbanized planet.
The  second  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  takes  place  amid  debates 
on  the  shape  of  the  global  development  agenda  after 
2015. It also takes place against the background of daily 
accounts of migrants who suffer terribly and needlessly. 
Many, as off Lampedusa several days ago, perish at sea 
or along borders, while others face rejection and racism 
in their host communities.
In  short,  while  migration  carries  significant 
development potential, positive development outcomes 
for migrants and for countries of origin and destination 
are by no means guaranteed. Migration is an integral 
part of development but not a substitute for it. By the 
same  token,  however,  migrants  can  be  the  agents  and 
the  enablers  of  development  but  should  not  be  held 
responsible  for  it.  Positive  development  outcomes 
of  migration  depend  on  the  protection  of  the  human 
rights of migrants. For that, we need collaboration and 
partners.
today,  however, 
As  matters  stand 
too  much 
migration  takes  place  at  the  hands  of  traffickers  and 
smugglers. If we keep tightening visa regimes, building 
walls, making integration impossible for migrants and 
making it impossible for people to move freely among 
societies,  then  more  and  more  people  will  be  pushed 
into the hands of traffickers and smugglers. Too many 
migrants suffer gross abuses of their human and labour 
rights.  Too  many  must  do  work  that  falls  far  short  of 
their actual qualifications. And too much of migrants’ 
earnings  is  subject  to  exorbitant  recruitment  fees, 
earnings  that  should  not  go  to  recruitment  agencies. 
Sadly,  migrants  often  manage  to  improve  their  lot  in 
spite of, not because of, Government policies.
12/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
At  IOM,  we  believe  that  the  High-level  Dialogue 
provides  a  critical  opportunity  to  shine  a  spotlight 
on  migration  and  its  contribution  to  development  and 
on  the  migration-development  nexus,  and  to  improve 
cooperation  on  the  governance  of  migration,  while 
keeping the rights and well-being of migrants fully at 
the centre of the debate.
I believe we are here today because migrants matter. 
It is a cruel irony, however, that at the moment of the 
greatest  human  mobility  in  recorded  history,  there  is 
a rising tide of anti-migrant sentiment in much of the 
world,  especially  in  destination  countries  and,  sadly, 
even in traditional migrant countries.
When  migrants  come  to  a  country,  they  carry 
with them a lot more than a suitcase. They also bring 
fresh  talent,  experiences,  new  perspectives  and  a 
catalytic  element  that  society  needs.  Every  migrant 
has something unique to offer. As we heard from many 
countries  that  participated  in  our  recent  Diaspora 
Ministerial Conference in Geneva, a well-educated and 
well-connected global diaspora gathers talented people 
who  can  offer  resources  in  the  form  of  remittances. 
They  also  possess  know-how  and  contacts,  and  they 
may return home from time to time. Ultimately, those 
transnational  communities  are  development  actors. 
All  Governments  have  a  responsibility  to  dispel  the 
dangerous  stereotypes  and  destructive  myths  about 
migrants. That means large public-education and public 
-information  programmes  about  the  overwhelmingly 
positive contribution that migrants have always made.
Migration is a necessity for some, a dream for many 
and a reality for all States. Let me offer six areas that 
IOM believes will require our dedicated attention in the 
years to come.
First,  a  fundamental  shift  in  public  perceptions 
of migrants and migration is needed. Migration is not 
a problem to be solved; it is a process to be managed 
responsibly  and  humanely.  Secondly,  we  need  to 
invest  in  fact-based  migration  policies.  That  requires 
improving  the  quality  of  research  and  data  collection 
on migration. Thirdly, migration should be integrated 
as a key element of development and of broader sectoral 
planning  at  all  levels  in  developed  and  developing 
countries  alike.  Fourthly,  the  human  rights  of  all 
migrants must be protected, regardless of their status.
Fifthly,  migration  in  crisis  situations  must  be 
managed.  We  have  come  up  with  a  Migration  Crisis 
Operational  Framework  based  on  our  experience  in 
Libya,  where  we  brought  nearly  250,000  migrant 
workers home to 54 countries, along with our partner, 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees. However, we discovered after we brought 
them  home  that  we  had  no  more  tools  in  our  toolkit. 
They  needed  schools,  they  needed  clinics.  We  simply 
have  to  be  better  organized  to  help  migrants  in  the 
future, and we think our Framework, which is already 
in operation, will do just that.
Finally,  there  is  the  area  of  policy  coherence  and 
capacity development, which is partly why we are here 
for these two days. I offer our full commitment at IOM 
to all who wish to work together to further cooperation 
in the field of migration.
I offer a final thought. Migration is inevitable. In 
view  of  the  demographic  trends,  we  know  that  many 
developed  societies  will  need  tens  of  millions  of 
workers that they simply will not have. Most of them 
are going to come from the global South, and if we are 
not  educating  and  informing  our  people  about  that, 
the migrant workers may not receive the welcome that 
will  be  required  if  they  are  going  to  contribute  their 
potential. Migration is also necessary if our economies 
and  societies  are  to  flourish,  and  it  is  desirable  if  we 
have the right policies.
I would now like to read out, on behalf of the Global 
Migration Group, their statement, which was negotiated 
over many months. It represents the views of 15 United 
Nations agencies and the International Organization for 
Migration.  It  is  the  Group  which  I  happen  to  chair  at 
this time.
The Global Migration Group was established prior 
to the first High- level Dialogue in 2006 as the successor 
of the Geneva Migration Group. Today, it is the principal 
inter-agency  coordination  mechanism  on  migration, 
encompassing 15 entities of the United Nations system 
and  the  International  Organization  for  Migration.  It 
aims to promote all relevant international and regional 
instruments and norms relating to migration. Bringing 
together heads of agencies, the Global Migration Group 
also seeks to encourage more coherent, comprehensive 
and  coordinated  approaches  to  maximize  the  benefits 
and address the challenges of migration.
This is the second time in 2013 that we are discussing 
the theme of international migration and development at 
a high- level event in the General Assembly. We believe 
it is essential that migrants — the main protagonists in 
the migration-development debate — be at the centre of 
13-50009
13/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
our attention. Migrants are not commodities or factors 
of  production.  They  are  mothers  and  fathers  seeking 
a better life for their families. They are young people 
using their talents to realize their dreams and ambitions. 
They  are  individuals  trying  to  escape  discrimination, 
the  poverty  trap  and  conflict.  They  are  neighbours, 
relatives,  friends,  employers,  or  colleagues  of  each 
and every one of us in this room. Many of us are also 
migrants or the children of migrants. With that in mind, 
the Global Migration Group calls for a people-centred 
and  human-rights-based  approach  to  migration  and 
development.
Our key message for this High-level Dialogue and 
beyond  is  that  migration  is  undeniably  an  enabler  of 
inclusive  and  sustainable  development  for  individuals 
and  societies  alike.  Rights-based  governance  of 
international  migration,  premised  on  the  protection 
and  fulfilment  of  the  human  and  labour  rights  of  all 
migrants regardless of their status, will make migration 
a safe, productive and enriching experience for migrants 
and their families. We need migration policies and laws 
that address the entire migration process and that are 
coherent  with  other  policy  areas.  We  need  inclusive, 
transparent  and  accountable  cooperation  bilaterally, 
regionally and globally. Only then can we also harness 
the  substantial  gains  that  migration  offers  to  the 
countries that migrants come from, travel through and 
live and work in.
The  experiences  of  migrant  men,  women,  the 
young and the old are varied. Where a migrant comes 
from  and  moves  to,  her  migration  status,  his  sector 
of  employment,  and  conditions  of  work,  health, 
including  possibly  disability,  and  cultural  identity 
and  ethnicity  —  all  these  factors  will  influence  the 
individual  migration  experience.  As  a  result,  there  is 
no simple, single migration story applicable to all. We 
need  to  recognize  the  diverse  biographies,  capacities, 
needs and vulnerabilities of those we collectively call 
migrants.
At the same time, however, we can identify relevant 
universal principles, good practices, and policy priorities 
in  addressing  migration.  All  migrants,  regardless  of 
their  legal  status,  are  entitled  to  protection,  respect 
and the fulfilment of their inherent human and labour 
rights. As the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
states,  “All  human  beings  are  born  free  and  equal  in 
dignity and rights”.
The  2013  High-level  Dialogue 
is  a  unique 
opportunity for States and the international community 
at  large  to  firmly  anchor  the  debate  on  international 
migration  and  development  in  the  three  fundamental 
principles of human rights, equality and sustainability 
that  lie  at  the  heart  of  the  future  United  Nations 
post-2015  development  agenda.  Together  we  can  lay 
the  foundation  for  improved  rights-based  migration 
governance  that  enhances  the  human  development 
outcomes  of  international  migration  for  migrants  and 
States.
Let us fast forward a few years. Imagine we are in 
this room again, say for the next High-level Dialogue. 
What would we hope to have achieved? What world do 
we want for the migrant of the future?
First,  a  few  years  from  now,  we  would  like  to  be 
working in a world in which all States are committed, 
both  in  law  and  in  practice,  to  the  human  and  labour 
rights  of  migrants  and  their  families,  with  a  focus 
on  the  most  vulnerable.  As  one  indication  of  change, 
Governments  would  enhance  access 
regular 
migration channels to meet actual labour market needs, 
and  for  family  reunification.  Fewer  migrants  would 
languish in immigration detention facilities, and none 
of them would be children or adolescents. There would 
be  a  significant  reduction  in  human  trafficking  and 
exploitation of migrants, and prosecution of perpetrators 
would increase. There would be a precipitous drop in 
hate crimes and violence against migrants, and in abuse 
and maltreatment in the workplace and of migrants in 
transit.
to 
We would like to see more national human rights 
institutions with mandates and dedicated departments 
for  migrants.  Equally,  we  would  like  to  see  more 
interministerial  and  intersectoral  coordinating  bodies 
to  deal  with  migration  in  a  whole-of-Government 
approach.  Effective  mechanisms  would  be  in  place  to 
meet the humanitarian needs of migrants, in particular 
migrants  in  crisis.  All  migrants  and  their  families, 
irrespective of their status, would have access to health 
care,  including  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and 
reproductive rights, and to education, adequate housing, 
social security and protection, and other basic services. 
Migrant women, including domestic workers, would 
be empowered to enjoy fully their rights. Migrants would 
have their own organizational capacity to articulate and 
claim their rights, and trade unions would continue to 
open the doors to and advocate on behalf of upholding 
labour standards for migrant workers. Migrants would 
have  productive  and  decent  work,  and  employers  and 
private  recruitment  agencies  would  adopt  equitable 
14/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
recruitment practices and respect labour laws. Perhaps 
most important in this domain, migrant women, men, 
girls and boys would be recognized and valued for their 
unique  and  inherent  individual  human  worth,  dignity 
and contributions.
Secondly, we hope to have a new reference text for 
global development, one which builds on and enhances 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  That 
text,  we  hope,  will  remedy  the  silence  of  the  MDGs 
on migration issues. It will reflect the realization that 
migration  is  not  exclusively  a  South-North  issue,  but 
contributes  to  equitable,  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development in all countries and regions.
A few years from now, we hope to implement a new 
partnership  for  migration  as  part  of  a  renewed  global 
partnership for development. Such a partnership could 
be  measured  in  terms  of  the  number  of  development 
plans,  labour  market  and  employment  policies,  social 
protection  schemes,  education  and  health  policies 
as  well  as  investment,  trade-related  and  financial 
inclusion policies that systematically include migrants, 
particularly  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable,  through 
participatory and accountable processes.Other measures 
of  progress  could  include  reduced  up-front  costs  for 
recruitment,  lower  transfer  costs  for  remittances, 
more  multiple-entry  visas  and  dual  citizenships  and 
additional  mechanisms  for  the  recognition  of  foreign 
qualifications  —  all  of  that  would  help  ensure  that 
the  globalization  of  personhood  keeps  pace  with  the 
globalization of commerce.
We hope that, in the interim, dialogue, cooperation 
and  partnership  on  international  migration  will  have 
expanded  and  flourished  and  will  have  become  more 
inclusive  and  accountable.  We  would  like  to  see  the 
Global Forum on Migration and Development continue 
to advance understanding and consensus on migration 
and  development.  The  Forum  could  also  use  its 
position  to  promote  all  international  instruments  and 
norms  relevant  to  migration.  We  encourage  regional 
consultative  processes  on  migration 
to  continue 
expanding their agendas and their circle of participants.
The  Global  Migration  Group  stands  ready  to 
continue  to  support  the  Forum  and  explore  synergies 
for future collaboration. We would like to see a greater 
number  of  regional  mobility  schemes  and  labour 
migration  agreements  signed  and  implemented  that 
project and fulfil the human and labour rights of migrant 
workers  and  their  families.  Above  all,  we  would  like 
to see mechanisms at the global, regional and national 
levels that promote the contributions and participation 
of migrants and civil society more generally.
Those  are  just  a  few  measures  of  progress  that 
we put before the Assembly for its consideration as it 
deliberates on the future of migration. The Group offers 
its support to States and other actors and entities in that 
endeavour. We have put forward our recommendations 
in  greater  detail  in  a  position  paper  on  the  Dialogue, 
which is available on the Group’s website. I also take 
the opportunity to thank those who participated in our 
side  event  earlier  today.  We  were  honoured  to  have 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon join us in a discussion 
on  the  Global  Migration  Group’s  work  priorities  and 
future direction.
In closing, allow me to reiterate our call for future 
migration governance that is migrant-centred and that 
recognizes human rights and development as two sides 
of the same coin. It is our hope that this second High-
level Dialogue will conclude with an agenda for action 
on protection of the rights of all migrants, migration’s 
role in development, reduction of the costs of migration 
and cooperation on migrant matters at all levels. We in 
the Global Migration Group are strongly committed to 
that endeavour and offer our full support to all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 56/90, of 12 December 2001, 
I now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Development Law Organization.
Ms.  Arenas  (International  Development  Law 
Organization):  The  International  Development  Law 
Organization  (IDLO)  —  the  only  intergovernmental 
organization exclusively devoted to advancing the rule 
of law — expresses its appreciation for this important 
Dialogue.
Migrants have been playing and continue to play an 
essential role in global development. The contribution 
they make to socioeconomic development in countries 
of destination, transit and origin is undeniable, although 
not always fully recognized. The potential benefits of 
migration are too often undermined by discrimination, 
unequal  treatment  and  human  rights  abuses  against 
migrants.
IDLO would like to express its deepest sympathies 
to  the  families  of  those  who  died  yesterday  in  the 
Mediterranean.  The  loss  of  life  in  the  waters  off 
Lampedusa  underscores 
tragic  globalization 
of  human  misery.  For  millions  around  the  world, 
migration  offers  the  only  hope  of  escaping  grinding 
the 
13-50009
15/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
poverty  and  violence.  But  migrants  —  especially 
women  and  children  —  are  some  of  the  world’s  most 
vulnerable  people,  subject  to  exploitation,  abuse  and 
fatal  accidents.  The  Lampedusa  tragedy  only  makes 
it more essential to promote a global culture of justice 
and development.
international  migration 
IDLO supports the commitment in the Declaration 
(resolution  68/4)  to  work  towards  an  effective  and 
inclusive  agenda  on 
that 
integrates development and respects human rights, and 
it firmly believes that the rule of law must be at its core. 
Human rights are universal and inherent, irrespective 
of migratory status. Respect for human rights and the 
rule  of  law  can  lead  to  better  and  more  sustainable 
development outcomes for all, including migrants.
Last year, the General Assembly adopted resolution 
67/1, an important resolution recognizing that “the rule 
of  law  and  development  are  strongly  interrelated  and 
mutually  reinforcing”.  With  regard  to  migration,  it 
is  important  to  remember  two  critical  aspects  of  the 
rule of law: equality before the law and fairness in the 
application of the law. Equality and non-discrimination 
must be translated into good laws, policy and regulations 
that  further  the  rule  of  law  and  protect  the  rights  of 
migrants.  Unfortunately,  in  many  cases  migrants  are 
discriminated against and criminalized.
But good laws and regulations are not enough. In 
particular, migrants from vulnerable groups often bear 
the brunt of compounding abuse and marginalization. 
Women and girls, a group which makes up half of the 
migrants around the world, are particularly vulnerable 
to  discrimination,  violence  and  exploitation.  An  area 
where  the  rule  of  law  can  clearly  prove  valuable  is 
in  improving  migrants’  access  to  justice.  Critical  to 
ensuring  access  to  justice  are  the  practical  steps  that 
must be taken to remove barriers for those in vulnerable 
situations. In the case of migrant women, creating clear 
pathways  of  care  and  protection  that  involve  local 
communities  and  provide  information,  counselling, 
legal  assistance  and  hosting,  in  case  of  danger,  allow 
them  to  count  on  protection  and  access  to  justice  in 
countries not their own.
Further, good rule-of-law frameworks based on the 
human rights principles of participation, accountability, 
non-discrimination, equality and empowerment can be 
powerful enablers for migrants, for example through the 
use of legal empowerment techniques, legal education 
and legal awareness.
IDLO  welcomes 
the  need 
the  Declaration’s 
specific 
recognition  of 
to  prevent  and  combat 
trafficking.  Our  experience  has  shown  that  it  is 
important  to  align  domestic  legislation  on  human 
trafficking  with  international  standards  and  equally 
important to build the regional capacity of the law and 
criminal  justice  enforcement  sectors  involved  in  the 
prosecution  of  human  trafficking  cases  and  increase 
access to justice for victims and groups at risk.
The rule of law and human rights can improve the 
lives  of  vulnerable  migrants,  particularly  women.  By 
empowering  these  groups  and  enabling  them  to  have 
greater access to justice, IDLO believes that better, more 
inclusive and sustainable development outcomes can be 
achieved. As the adoption of a post-2015 development 
agenda draws nearer, IDLO is committed to playing its 
part to support the international community in framing 
an agenda that embraces the rule of law, human rights 
and  justice  to  achieve  fair,  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development for all, including migrants.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  477  (V),  of  1  November 
1950, I now call on the observer of the League of Arab 
States.
Ms.  Elfergany  (League  of  Arab  States):  Let 
me  begin  by  joining  others  in  expressing  our  deep 
condolences to the families of those who died tragically 
yesterday on the shores of Lampedusa.
Today  I  am  honoured  to  represent  the  general 
secretariat  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  at  this 
Dialogue, an important event in relation to migration. 
During its preparatory stage, all relevant countries and 
organizations focused exclusively on the event.
Given  the  importance  that  the  League  of  Arab 
States attaches to coordination and its use of a unified 
Arab  approach  for 
international  and  multilateral 
discussions  on  migration  and  development  topics, 
the  League  of  Arab  States  —  in  collaboration  with 
the  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Western 
Asia  (ESCWA)  and  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration  (IOM)—  held  a  regional  consultative 
meeting for Arab States on international migration and 
development in the Arab region at the League of Arab 
States headquarters in Cairo on 4 and 5 June 2013. The 
meeting was attended by officials from 15 countries in 
the  Arab  region,  the  representatives  of  authorities  in 
charge of migration and expatriate affairs and of labour, 
the representatives of communities living abroad and of 
16/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
regional, international and civil society organizations, 
as well as experts.
The  final  declaration  of  the  meeting  focused 
principally  on  international  migration  in  the  Arab 
region and the main development challenges facing it. 
A  detailed  version  is  available  on  the  websites  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  the  IOM  and  ESCWA.  Hard 
copies are available in the Hall. The declaration included 
discussions on how to protect human rights and improve 
the conditions of migrant workers and the importance 
of  coordination  at  regional  and  international  levels  to 
provide  assistance  to  refugees  and  displaced  persons, 
particularly given their growing numbers owing to the 
current situation in some Arab countries in the region.
The  declaration  emphasized  several  other  points: 
the  importance  of  promoting  the  role  of  migrant 
communities  in  development  planning  and  practice 
through  the  transfer  of  skills,  the  development  of 
partnerships  and  communication  networks  between 
themselves and their counterparts in the Arab region, 
and  the  optimal  use  of  modern  communications  and 
technology  to  access  better  information  on  job  and 
investment opportunities in the region.
The  declaration  also  emphasized  support  for 
development  goals  through  regional  and  international 
labour  mobility.  Such  mobility  can  be  achieved  by 
integrating  migration  into  development  strategies  at 
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  The 
declaration  called  for  strategies  to  alleviate  poverty, 
provide  universal  education,  and  adopt  public  service 
sector  and  social  justice  measures,  as  well  as  for  the 
inclusion  of  migration  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  It  stressed  the  importance  of  partnership  and 
cooperation  in  the  field  of  international  migration  at 
regional and international levels.
The  participants  welcomed  the  convening  of  the 
second High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and  Development.  They  affirmed  the  importance  of 
the  Arab  countries’  participation  in  the  Dialogue  and 
its  proceedings  with  a  view  to  reaching  a  consensus 
on  promoting 
to 
development,  and  to  reducing  its  negative  impact  on 
countries of origin and destination and on the migrants 
themselves.  They  emphasized  the  need  to  take  the 
regional  specificities  of  each  geographical  area  into 
consideration,  including  migration-related  challenges, 
and to incorporate Arabic as an official language in the 
Global Forum on Migration and Development.
the  contribution  of  migration 
The declaration commended the establishment of a 
working group on international migration in the Arab 
region by the general secretariat of the League of Arab 
States, ESCWA and the International Organization for 
Migration,  under  their  joint  chairmanship,  and  with 
the  membership  of  concerned  organizations.  Its  aims 
are  severalfold.  They  include  promoting  coordination 
mechanisms,  exchanging  information  on  migration, 
developing  programmes,  projects,  activities  and  ideas 
on international migration and development in the Arab 
region, as well as following up on the outcomes of the 
second High-level Dialogue.
The  participants  emphasized 
importance 
of  establishing  a  regional  consultative  process  on 
migration in the Arab region within the framework of 
the League of the Arab States, which is currently taking 
the necessary steps for that to be accomplished.
the 
There  is  an  urgent  need  to  link  migration  and 
development  in  the  Arab  region  and  to  identify  the 
potential  role  of  expatriate  communities  and  migrant 
skills in development planning and execution. We are 
confident that that link will help advance development 
and resolve the challenges currently facing our region. 
I hope that the Dialogue will achieve its objectives and 
that it will be in the interests of all participants, whether 
they are representing, sending or receiving countries.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  57/31,  of  19  November 
2002, I will now give the floor to Mr. Peter Widermann, 
Director-General  of 
the  International  Centre  for 
Migration Policy Development.
Mr.  Widermann 
(International  Centre 
for 
Migration Policy Development): Within the mandate of 
my organization we are working together with countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  I  therefore  want  to 
first and foremost express my deep concerns about the 
events of yesterday morning in Lampedusa. I think it 
was the worst day at the doorstep of Europe.
When  we  last  met  for  the  High-level  Dialogue 
on  International  Migration  and  Development,  many 
of  us  were  concerned  about  the  state  of  the  global 
framework  for  migration.  Migration  and  development 
were  still  perceived  as  separate  and  only  vaguely 
related components in the global arena. For some, the 
issue  of  migration  was  mainly  connected  to  security 
considerations  and  divorced  from  the  development 
agenda. Our understanding of the nature of international 
migration  and  the  reciprocal  links  between  migration 
13-50009
17/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
and development were limited and the policy responses 
inappropriate.
work in what we believe in: that migration is all about 
people.
As  a  result  of  our  deliberations,  the  continuity 
of  discussions  in  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development has helped us to bridge the divide between 
migration as a purely domestic concern and migration 
as  an  enabler  of  global  development.  Now  we  find 
ourselves  at  an  important  crossroads.  The  post-2015 
development  agenda  is  being  elaborated.  We  should 
include migration in that framework to ensure that we 
utilize  its  development  potential.  That  is  contingent 
on  migration  being  safe,  humane  and  managed  in  an 
orderly fashion. In order to get there, we need to revisit 
some of the fundamentals of migration governance.
First  and 
foremost,  better  migration  entails 
facilitating  the  mobility  of  people,  so  that  their  full 
potential  for  human  and  social  development  can  be 
utilized. That calls for less red tape around immigration 
and  safeguards  against  abuse  and  exploitation.  The 
mobility  of  people  offers  much  more  than  fiscal  and 
economic  benefits.  It  is  about  skills  transfer;  it  is 
about global movement that brings social and cultural 
diversity to the places we live in.
Secondly,  in  a  mobile  world  our  integration 
frameworks need to ensure participation and inclusion. 
Those societies that enable migrants to thrive and excel 
will be the most successful.
Thirdly,  borders  will  have  to  be  managed  so  as 
to facilitate the movement of people and goods at the 
same  time.  Border  management  is  necessary  to  help 
reduce the risks linked to increased mobility. We need 
to prosecute those who exploit our endeavours to create 
better migratory flows.
With  that  in  mind,  we  are  noticing  a  growing 
conviction  that  we  need  dialogue  that  includes  all 
stakeholders in order to have better migration. We have 
to  include  the  diasporas,  civil  society  organizations, 
trade  unions,  employer  associations,  businesses, 
recruitment  agencies  and  universities,  to  name  a  few 
of them. We as migration organizations will continue 
to pay particular attention to including development in 
our discussions about migration, and we will continue 
to  undertake  sound  research  to  guide  those  talks  and 
evidence-based  policy-making.  As  we  already  know, 
better  data  and  better  analysis  help  in  the  design  of 
better policies. We at ICMPD will continue to put our 
expertise at the service of the global community and to 
ICMP  is  celebrating  its  twentieth  anniversary 
this  year.  When  the  organization  was  founded,  the 
migration world looked different. I hope that 20 years 
from  now,  we  can  look  back  and  know  that  we  used 
this momentum to move forward. I am sure next time 
we meet we will have seen a fundamental shift in how 
migration is governed.
Let  me  conclude  by  congratulating  the  General 
Assembly and the organizers of the High-level Dialogue 
on  International  Migration  and  Development  and  to 
invite everybody to keep the momentum going. Through 
our work and, most importantly, through our concerted 
efforts to give migration a human face, we cannot miss 
this  opportunity.  Migration  is  development,  and  it  is 
too big to fail.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  64/124,  of  16  December 
2009,  I  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  for  the 
Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean.
Mr.  Schatzer  (Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 
Mediterranean): Parliamentarians  have  a  key  role  to 
play,  because  any  effective  international  approach 
needs to be backed by solid policies at the national and 
regional  levels.  Parliamentarians  not  only  legislate; 
they also link constituencies and administrations.
Over  the  years,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of 
the Mediterranean has tackled the issue of population 
movements 
from  several  perspectives:  economic 
migration, forced migration, the condition of refugees 
and, last year, the impact of the Arab Spring on migration 
in the Mediterranean region. With the democratization 
process  of  the  Arab  Spring,  the  peoples  of  Tunisia, 
Egypt and Libya have fought for their freedom, and as a 
result, the political dimension in the Mediterranean has 
changed  radically.  Those  democratization  processes 
and the ongoing crisis in Syria have created a huge wave 
of migration in our region. In such an evolving context, 
it  is  clear  that  securing  regional  stability —  whereby 
everybody can enjoy their political rights, freedom of 
religion, social justice, dignity, freedom of movement, 
access to labour markets, availability of basic resources 
at  affordable  prices  —  represents  a  key  condition  for 
peace  and  sustainable  socioeconomic  development  in 
our region.
At  the  Parliamentary  Assembly,  we  have  been 
working on the creation of a Mediterranean observatory 
18/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
on migration, to be established in Greece, in order to 
better  monitor  and  facilitate  the  lessons  learned  on 
migratory  flows  in  the  region.  In  recent  years,  those 
flows  have  undergone  changes,  including  a  change 
of  direction  due  to  the  economic  crisis  in  Europe, 
when,  for  example,  thousands  of  Spaniards  had  to 
leave their country to look for jobs. The history of the 
Mediterranean is built on accounts of human movement. 
Their passage left its mark on the culture and the way 
of life of the countries of adoption. In the work of our 
Assembly we give high priority to migration issues.
In 
the  coming  decades,  Europe’s 
indigenous 
workforce  will  shrink,  due  to  low  population  growth 
and  ageing.  On  the  other  hand,  migration  movements 
are on the increase. Those volumes make it difficult for 
the  receiving  countries  to  adequately  meet  the  needs 
that such movements generate. It is important for those 
of us at the legislative level to examine ways to ensure 
that  such  movements  will  match  the  interests  of  the 
migrants, within economic and cultural parameters that 
the countries of adoption can extend. The latest tragedy 
in Italian territorial waters only underlines the urgency 
of such efforts.
Migration is a multifaceted topic, and our Assembly 
has also analysed it from an educational point of view. 
I  am  referring  to  vocational  training  and  to  student 
exchange programmes, the usual tools to increase the 
transfer of know-how in the region and to prevent brain 
drain.  In  that  connection,  I  am  proud  to  report  that 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean  is 
working,  in  cooperation  with  the  French  Government 
and  Paris  Sorbonne  University,  to  launch  a  summer 
university for Mediterranean students, which will host 
50  students  every  year  at  Villefranche-sur-Mer.  Each 
year the project will focus on a different subject, with 
the  cooperation  of  professors  and  experts  from  the 
entire Euro-Mediterranean region.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  stress  and  reiterate 
the  commitment  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of 
the  Mediterranean  to  contribute  to  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  —  particularly  the  Group 
of  20,  the  Dialogue  5+5  group,  the  United  Nations, 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  and  the 
Alliance of Civilizations — in addressing the migration 
phenomenon 
through  coherent  and  harmonized 
legislative action by members of parliament.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  253  (111),  of  16  October 
1948, I give the floor to the observer for the Organization 
of American States.
Ms. Moreno de Tagle (Organization of American 
States) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to start by expressing 
my sincere condolences to the families and friends of 
those who died off the coast of Italy.
I  welcome  this  opportunity  to  speak  in  this 
forum  as  Chair  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States’  Committee  on  Migration  Issues.  The  topic 
of  migration  is  unquestionably  relevant,  given  its 
profound economic, demographic, social, cultural and 
even political implications. The region of the Americas 
is  no  stranger  to  the  reality  inherent  in  the  processes 
of  integration  and  globalization,  as  we  are  currently 
experiencing them.
The  World  Bank  estimates 
that  30  million 
people  —  that  is,  5.2  per  cent  of  the  total  population 
of Latin America and the Caribbean — have emigrated 
from  their  countries  of  origin  in  search  of  better 
opportunities.  Also,  according  to  the  2012  report  on 
international  migration  in  the  Americas,  80  per  cent 
of  the  migrants  in  the  Americas  come  from  other 
countries in the same hemisphere, specifically from a 
single neighbouring country. Thus we can say that the 
migration in this hemisphere is mostly a regional affair.
We should also mention the important contributions 
that  migrants  make  in  countries  of  origin  and  in 
destination  countries.  According  to  the  World  Bank 
data, in 2012 the flow of remittances to Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  was  approximately  $62  billion. 
However,  that  figure  does  not  reflect  the  intangible 
contributions of our migrants, such as their skills, their 
knowledge, their cultural contributions, their identities 
and their ideas. The Organization of American States, 
as  the  hemisphere’s  highest  forum,  is  following  the 
evolution  of  this  phenomenon,  which  has  a  profound, 
permanent impact in our societies, through two offices: 
the legal office dealing with the the rights of migrants 
of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, 
and the Committee on Migration Issues.
The  Committee,  which  was  set  up  only  in  2012, 
is the Organization’s principal forum for dealing with 
the  issue  of  migration  with  an  integral,  balanced  and 
technical  focus  that  considers  the  contribution  and 
the  challenges  that  migration  represents  for  countries 
of  origin,  transit,  destination  and/or  return.  Among 
the  Committee’s  functions,  criteria  and  activities,  I 
wish to highlight the following. It promotes dialogue, 
13-50009
19/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
cooperation and exchange of experiences, information, 
lessons  learned  and  best  practices  between  member 
States within the framework of respect for the human 
rights  of  migrants.  It  identifies  steps  that  could 
strengthen  the  contribution  of  migrants  by  enhancing 
their image and removing any rejection, discrimination 
and intolerance that they are subject to in host societies 
as  a  result  of  a  false  concept  arising  from  negative 
stereotypes.  It  reviews,  implements  and  provides 
follow-up to our inter-American programme to promote 
and  protect  the  human  rights  of  migrants,  including 
migrant  workers  and  their  families.  The  Committee 
examines  the  existing  linkage  between  migration  and 
development  in  the  Americas  through  this  High-level 
Dialogue  and  as  part  of  working  out  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  development  of 
the  Continuous  Reporting  System  on  International 
Migration in the Americas by the General Secretariat 
of  the  Organization  of  American  States,  also  known 
as  SICREMI.  The  objective  since  2009  has  been  to 
periodically produce and systematize information on a 
hemisphere level on migration flows, legal frameworks 
and policies that would allow member States to make 
informed  decisions  on  migration.  Without  a  doubt, 
this is a tangible result of the important work that the 
Organization is doing in the area of migration.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that 
the  Committee  on  Migration  Issues  considers 
it 
fundamental to analyse migration from an integral and 
balanced  perspective  that  considers,  on  the  one  hand, 
the  causes,  effects,  challenges  and  opportunities  of 
migration and, on the other, places migrants as people 
with  human  rights  at  the  centre  of  any  policy  or  plan 
for  migration.  In  that  sense,  we  note  the  indissoluble 
link among migration, development and human rights, 
recognizing that respect for human rights is an essential 
pillar for development, which in its turn is essential for 
the effective exercise of those rights and for enjoying 
the positive aspects of international migration.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 49/2, of 27 October 1994, I 
now call on the observer for the International Federation 
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Madiwale  (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  As  a  network  of 
national  societies  with  over  100  years  of  experience 
assisting  vulnerable  migrants,  we  are  grateful  for 
the  Declaration  on 
the  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  2013  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
We  welcome 
International 
Migration  and  Development  (resolution  68/4),  which 
is  an  extremely  important  reaffirmation  of  the  rights 
of  all  migrants,  irrespective  of  their  legal  status. 
Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  recognition  of  the 
specific situation and vulnerability of migrant women 
and children and of the need to counteract xenophobia 
and discrimination against migrants.
The  Declaration  also  calls  for  practical  and 
action-oriented  initiatives  aimed  at  identifying  and 
closing protection gaps. Allow me to make three points 
in that regard, which are based on resolution 3 of the 
31st International Conference of the Red Cross and Red 
Crescent  Movement,  entitled  “Migration:  Ensuring 
access,  dignity,  respect  for  diversity  and  social 
inclusion”. The Conference was held in Geneva in 2011. 
The  resolution  was  agreed  to  by  all  State  parties  to 
the  Geneva  Conventions,  the  International  Federation 
of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC),  the 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  and  187 
national societies.
First, migrants at all stages of their journey often 
find themselves in extremely vulnerable situations. That 
is  particularly  true  at  borders,  where  migrants  often 
face  serious  risks  to  their  dignity  and  safety  with  no 
access to basic services or international protection over 
significant periods of time. One way of addressing that 
would be for States to ensure that national procedures, 
especially those that might result in the deportation or 
interdiction of persons, include adequate safeguards at 
borders to protect the dignity and safety of all migrants.
Secondly,  States  should  ensure  the  ability  of 
migrants at all stages of their journey to access basic 
services, including health care, shelter, food, clothing, 
education  and  family  unification  services.  We  stress 
that  those  services  are  essential  for  human  life  and 
should not be denied to any person, irrespective of the 
person’s legal status.
Thirdly,  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  national 
societies  and  Governments  have  worked  together  and 
will  continue  to  do  so  to  protect  and  fulfil  the  rights 
of  migrants.  Resolution  3  of  the  31st  International 
Conference  requests  States  to  ensure  that  national 
societies  have  effective  access  to  migrants  in  order 
to  provide  relevant  services  and  strongly  encourages 
enhanced  cooperation  between  national  societies  and 
20/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
public  authorities  to  improve  cultural  awareness  and 
social inclusion through engagement with migrants in 
local populations.
Allow me to highlight a few successful examples of 
that cooperation and partnership. The Italian Red Cross 
has been an essential part of the Presidium project, which 
aims to improve the reception, standards and assistance 
in Lampedusa, the site of yesterday’s horrific tragedy. 
The  Iceland  Red  Cross  works  with  the  Directorate 
of  Immigration  to  monitor  the  condition  of  asylum-
seekers throughout the asylum process. The British Red 
Cross works with the Home Office to deliver services 
to vulnerable migrants in over 40 counties in the United 
Kingdom. In Austria and Croatia, national Red Cross 
societies have led campaigns to assist unaccompanied 
minors and improve the public perception of migrants.
Across the developing world as well, including in 
Uzbekistan, Honduras, the Philippines and the Sudan, 
national societies have worked with their Governments 
to combat human trafficking and to improve the migrant 
experience  by  alerting  communities  to  the  risks  of 
migration, improving their knowledge of the migration 
process and restoring family links.
The IFRC and its 187 national societies stand ready 
to work with Governments in the international system 
to protect and fulfil the rights of migrants everywhere. 
We  are  thank  the  Assembly  for  the  opportunity  to 
contribute to the discussion.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  paragraph  13  of  resolution  67/219,  I 
now give the floor to the representative of the Council 
of Global Unions and General Secretary of the Building 
and Woodworkers International.
Mr. Yuson (Council of Global Unions and Building 
and Woodworkers International): Mr. President, we are 
grateful that trade unions can be heard in the General 
Assembly. I guess that it is never too late to raise our 
voices.
One  hundred  and  twenty  migrants  from  Ghana, 
Somalia  and  Eritrea  were  killed  as  their  flimsy  boat 
caught fire and capsized near the shores of Italy. Forty-
four  Nepalese  migrant  construction  workers  recently 
died  in  Qatar,  which  will  be  hosting  the  World  Cup 
in  2022.  Another  13  migrant  workers  were  killed  in 
Bahrain in a tragic fire due to poor housing and unsafe 
conditions.  Those  are  only  a  snippet  from  numbers 
of deaths suffered by migrant workers throughout the 
world  as  they  leave  their  homes  and  families  to  look 
for decent work, dignity and a better future, free from 
exploitation. Those are rights they deserve.
In  the  debate  on  global  governance  of  migration, 
a  rights-based  approach  to  the  existing  international 
normative framework governing migration must be the 
core outcome of the High-level Dialogue on International 
Migration and Development. We call on Governments 
to ratify the United Nations and International Labour 
Organization  (ILO)  conventions  on  migration.  We 
also  call  on  the  European  Union  to  comply  with  the 
fundamental  rights  of  migrants  in  accordance  with 
those  conventions.  The  approach  compels  all  of  us  to 
recognize that migrant workers have rights that must be 
protected and promoted in all situations — rights that 
should not be denied or compromised.
In the discussion on labour mobility, we should focus 
on  unscrupulous  recruiters,  outsourcing  agencies  and 
human traffickers who exploit the desires of migrants 
and view them only as commodities instead of human 
beings.  Governments  must  assume  responsibility  for 
creating  effective  and  transparent  mechanisms  that 
would  regulate  recruitment  to  protect  the  rights  of 
migrant  workers.  Unfortunately,  some  Governments 
have  also  viewed  migrants  as  commodities  instead 
of  human  beings,  although 
labour  mobility  has 
been  included  in  many  bilateral  and  regional  trade 
agreements.
Trade unions will continue to promote the Decent 
Work Agenda and ensure that migrant workers’ rights, 
including freedom of association, are respected in their 
debates. Although we participate in the Global Forum 
on Migration and Development, that Forum must give 
precedence  to  bilateral  agreements  in  which  decent 
work  and  migrant  workers’  rights  are  given  priority. 
I  reiterate  that  migrant  workers’  rights  cannot  be 
protected  through  non-binding  mechanisms,  bilateral 
agreements  with  no  reference  to  United  Nations 
normative frameworks and informal networks with no 
monitoring system and no genuine participation of civil 
society.
We look to the ILO to take the leadership role and 
see the ILO’s tripartite mechanism and social dialogue 
as being the most transparent, accountable, participative 
and substantive one for future dialogue and cooperation 
on migration.
I speak here on behalf of the 200 million members 
of  the  Global  Trade  Union  Movement.  I  would  like 
to  submit  our  open  letter  for  the  Assembly’s  careful 
13-50009
21/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
consideration. To the representatives of the trade union 
movement,  together  with  the  civil  society  movement, 
who are listening to us today, we would like to convey 
our message: trade unions and civil society are part of 
the solution. All of us here are committed to realization 
of  article  1  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, which states, “All human beings are born free 
and equal in dignity and rights.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  paragraph  13  of  resolution  67/219, 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Isabel  de  Sola,  Senior 
Knowledge Manager of the World Economic Forum.
Ms.  De  Sola  (World  Economic  Forum)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): It is an honour, but also a challenge, to be the 
final speaker in the debate at this High-level Meeting. 
In my country, El Salvador, we tend to remember the 
words of the Bible that say that the last will be the first 
in paradise. I at least hope this evening that my ideas 
will help to inspire a final reflection on cooperation.
I 
represent 
the  World  Economic  Forum,  a 
non-governmental  organization  based  in  Switzerland. 
For five years we have promoted a project to promote 
cooperation  with  the  private  sector  in  the  field  of 
migration.
During  the  debate  many  people  have  argued 
that 
improving  conditions  for  migrants  requires 
collaboration  between  all  the  parties  concerned.  The 
Action  Plan  presented  by  civil  society,  as  well  as  the 
governmental conclusions, refer to the determination to 
tighten  cooperation  with  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector.  Now,  although  we  wish  to  cooperate,  one 
of  the  key  players  in  terms  of  the  migrant  has  been 
markedly absent — the private sector. We recognize the 
contribution of migrants to human capital, innovation 
and job creation, yet we do not see representatives of 
employers, vendors and contractors in the audience. If 
we  wish  to  cooperate,  we  need  to  open  the  door  and 
allow the private sector to take part in this dialogue, as 
an additional partner in the process.
The  World  Economic  Forum  fervently  believes 
cooperation  is  one  of  the  ways  to  address  global 
challenges. In fact, we believe it is the best strategy for 
the future; without the firm commitment of companies, 
Governments,  international  agencies,  academia  and 
civil  society,  we  will  not  overcome  the  injustices  and 
correct the errors of modern times. It sounds good to 
cooperate,  and  it  can  even  be  a  fairly  powerful  tool. 
Nevertheless, we know that it is not easy. Cooperation 
with  other  sectors  requires  first  and  foremost  the 
willingness  to  talk  and  listen.  It  also  requires  giving 
up  ground  in  order  to  enhance  complementarities. 
Essentially, it requires a high level of trust between the 
parties.
Private  companies  have  specific  production  and 
sales  targets.  Those  goals  can  be  complementary 
to  the  objectives  of  ensuring  better  conditions  for 
migrants,  decent  working  conditions  and  building 
their development capacity. But how and where should 
we  begin?  Companies  employ  migrants,  train  them, 
pay  them  wages  and  sell  them  services  and  essential 
products.  The  company  communicates  with 
the 
migrants  and  knows  their  preferences.  Those  skills 
could  be  exploited  in  the  context  of  the  goal  that  we 
share of improving migrants’ conditions.
Let  me  share  some  concrete  examples  of  that 
potential.
First,  the  Filipino  telecommunications  company, 
Philippine  Long-Distance  Telephone  Company,  has 
generated  a  special  service  specifically  for  migrants 
abroad.  Through  its  telephones,  clients  can  pay  the 
accounts of their families back home in the Philippines 
and  buy  food  and  services  for  them.  Secondly, 
the  Manpower  company,  in  partnership  with  the 
Government  of  Viet  Nam,  is  developing  a  system  to 
recognize  new  skills  acquired  abroad  by  Vietnamese 
returnee migrants.
There are many other examples, but since I do not 
have much time, I will limit myself to those cited. I hope 
those  I  have  shared  with  the  Assembly  demonstrate 
the  potential  for  private-sector  collaboration  and 
for  recognizing  its  role  as  an  integral  member  of  the 
process.
We also know that private enterprise is sometimes 
part of the problem; therefore, we need to step up our 
efforts to integrate the companies in the dialogue. The 
model we are proposing is one of a private enterprise 
that is committed. Through its objectives of generating 
sales it could play an extraordinary role in the lives of 
migrants. We could take advantage of its contribution 
and  use  it  to  help  solve  migrants’  problems  by 
providing  companies  with  cooperation  opportunities 
and generally by opening the doors to that process.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
22/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
Before  proceeding  to  hear  the  summaries  of  the 
four  round-table  discussions,  I  should  like,  with  the 
consent of the Assembly, to give the floor to Mr. Peter 
Sutherland,  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General for Migration and Development.
It was so decided.
Mr.  Sutherland:  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
make a short contribution at the end of a couple of very 
arduous days, in which a great deal of work has been 
accomplished. I would like to preface my remarks by 
very  sincerely  thanking  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  organizing  the  High-level  Dialogue 
during  a  very  difficult  period.  He  did  so  with  great 
courtesy,  and  we  are  all  very  grateful  to  him  for  the 
assistance that was provided.
I  am  one  of  those  —  and  there  are  others 
present — who attended the first High-level Dialogue. 
That High-level Dialogue, in 2006, was in many ways 
polarized  between  different  positions  on  the  whole 
issue of migration and development, different positions 
on the whole engagement of the multilateral process and 
different positions on the priorities that were to apply to 
a debate on one of the great issues of our time, namely, 
migration and its connectivity with development. The 
greatest  possible  tribute  that  can  be  paid  to  the  first 
High-level Dialogue is its creation of the Global Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development,  which  was  its  sole 
product  and  a  source  of  harmony  and  progress  rather 
than a forum for division.
The convergence of views that has taken place and 
that is evident in the Declaration adopted at this High-
level  Dialogue  (resolution  68/4)  is  something  that  is, 
I  think,  testimony  to  the  new  approach  that  has  been 
taken by the Member States in dealing with this issue. 
I would like to pay particular tribute in this regard to 
Mexico. Mexico played a fundamental role in putting 
together  the  Declaration,  which  is  no  simple  matter. 
It  involves  all  aspects  of  a  very  complicated  subject. 
We could not agree on a declaration the first time we 
had a High-level Dialogue — no declaration at all. The 
Declaration that we now have is therefore testimony to 
a new era of relative consensus. One cannot have total 
consensus, and indeed nobody should want it, because 
there are different interests and different issues.
The  second  group  that  I  would  like  to  thank, 
because I think that they are of crucial importance in 
all  of  this,  apart  from  the  generality  of  the  Member 
States, is civil society. Civil society has felt, from time 
to  time,  excluded  from  a  debate  that  is  central  to  its 
preoccupations.  Creating  a  forum  for  discussion  that 
allowed States to speak to each other was an essential 
part  of  the  Global  Forum.  It  brought  about  positive 
results,  but  it  was  also  absolutely  vital  that  dialogue 
should take place with the civil society representatives, 
who  reflect,  understand  and  amplify  the  facts  on 
the  ground  and  the  real  difficulties  on  the  ground 
concerning this great issue of our time.
So  where  are  we  now?  Now  we  must  move  on  to 
action. We have had something like 250 outcomes from 
the Global Forum over the years, and I do not in any 
way  want  to  minimize  their  importance.  However, 
we  also  have  big  challenges  that  we  have  not  yet 
addressed.  During  the  last  couple  of  days,  we  have 
focused  on  migrants  in  crisis  and  the  need  to  have 
guiding principles or rules that can affect the behaviour 
of States — States where crises take place, whether it 
be  tsunamis  or  floods  or  wars  —  their  obligation  to 
migrants  and  migrant  communities,  the  obligations 
of  the  countries  of  origin  to  trace  and  know  where 
the  members  of  their  societies  are,  the  obligations  of 
contiguous States in terms of keeping borders open and 
the  obligations  of  employers.  We  are  going  to  move 
towards  creating  guiding  principles,  which  we  expect 
everybody to apply.
I would like to thank, in regard to this whole issue 
of  migrants  in  crisis,  the  United  States  for  agreeing 
to  take  on  a  leadership  role  and  the  Philippines  and 
Mexico for a responsible leadership role that can help 
us into the future.
We are also looking at another issue, and I think it 
is a big one. If the post-2015 development goals do not 
contain substantive reference to migration as an element 
and issue in the context of development, they will have 
failed, in my view, to have properly reflected one of the 
biggest issues that are directly linked to development. I 
am not talking just about remittances, although I could 
be. We all know that they make up a substantial part of 
foreign direct investment and of overseas development, 
and that every percentage or two by which we reduce 
the cost of transferring remittances is passed on to the 
broader  migrant  community  —  the  families  of  those 
who have been left behind, a group which is probably 
of the order of a billion people — and provides great 
opportunities.
I also want to mention, before I finish, the Domestic 
Workers Convention. Anyone who reads the Domestic 
Workers  Convention  must  have  great  difficulty 
13-50009
23/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
understanding how any civilized country could reject it 
and not ratify it. I just do not understand it. We all know 
the abuse that is taking place — vulnerable women who 
are left in houses, isolated from any contact with others. 
We know of places where there are numbers of them on 
death  row.  It  is  the  least  that  one  could  expect  to  get 
a more positive dynamic, although, particularly in the 
northern countries, but also in the southern countries, 
efforts to adopt that particular Convention have begun. 
There is a growing momentum, which has been evident 
since  5  September,  when  the  Convention  came  into 
force.
However, the post-2015 period is our most urgent 
challenge,  and  we  have  to  stop  preaching  to  the 
converted  and  start  preaching  to  those  who  are  not 
converted. We only have a matter of weeks. If something 
is not done about it, the opportunity will simply pass us 
by,  and  future  generations  will  look  at  the  post-2015 
development  goals  and  say  “What  were  they  doing?”. 
“They” are us, and something must be done.
So we must work together. I am hoping to do so as 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General, who, 
in opening the High-level Dialogue, asked me to try to 
work at bringing together the Global Migration Group 
and the Global Forum on Migration and Development in 
a way that leads to constructive, ongoing developments. 
Certainly,  I  know  that  all  those  concerned  in  those 
institutions have a commitment, too.
I thank members for listening to me. I often wonder 
about  these  speeches,  whether  they  are  more  useless 
rhetoric or whether they are actually having effects. It 
is really up to the Assembly, and the proof will be there, 
or will not be there, over the next couple of years.
Mr.  Al-Hajri  (Qatar)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My 
country’s delegation has taken part in the Dialogue in a 
very positive spirit, and we have been an active member 
of the Group of 77 in order to ensure the success of the 
Dialogue.
The  Assembly  may  be  aware  that  a  few  days  ago 
a  certain  newspaper  published  false  allegations  about 
the State of Qatar in which it alleged that workers were 
being  abused  in  our  country  and  that  some  had  died. 
The Assembly is also aware of the political background 
of those allegations.
Ever since my country began its quest to host the 
2022 World Cup and submitted an excellent, complete 
and universally recognized proposal, some people have 
believed that it would be difficult to host the tournament 
in  a  region  such  as  ours,  the  Middle  East.  Qatar  is  a 
small,  third-world  country  and  part  of  the  Muslim 
community, so there was a racist bias that evolved into 
a political position for some.
It  has  been  alleged  that  certain  Nepalese  workers 
are  being  abused.  We  contacted  our  friends  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Nepal  and  a  Nepalese  delegation  visited 
Qatar.  We  held  a  meeting  in  Doha  and  showed  those 
allegations to be lacking in truth. What is happening in 
Qatar happens everywhere else in the region. Yes, it is 
warm and the temperatures may be high, but those are 
the same temperatures that exist everywhere in region; 
they  are  not  specific  to  Qatar.  And  accidents  in  the 
workplace happen in every country.
As is well known, we have 2 million residents in our 
country, 1.7 million of whom come from 190 countries 
seeking  job  opportunities.  They  work  alongside  their 
Qatari brothers and sisters. So why was it not alleged 
that  all  of  those  1.7  million  people  are  being  abused? 
Why was just one country named? We are very happy 
with and proud of our relationships with the Kingdom of 
Nepal and with every other country that sends workers 
to us. It is a question of joint interests.
I  was  puzzled  recently  by  a  statement  issued  by 
the  representative  of  Building  and  Wood  Workers’ 
International,  an 
institution  that  we  respect  and 
appreciate.  But  we  are  astonished  by  the  allegations 
that  were  made.  As  the  representative  of  my  country, 
I  reject  those  allegations.  An  international  firm  has 
been appointed to examine all the allegations. Worker 
safety  is  a  priority  for  us,  and  we  will  not  allow  any 
worker or any resident who is not a citizen of Qatar to 
be  humiliated.  The  Constitution  of  the  State  of  Qatar 
regards Qataris and non-Qataris as equals in terms of 
rights and duties in the eyes of the law. Nobody can try 
to one-up us in that respect.
I  do  not  wish  to  speak  at  length,  but  my  country 
is a transparent and open one. As I have said, we have 
received a delegation from the Kingdom of Nepal and 
we  have  hired  an  international  firm  to  examine  the 
issue,  and  all  State  institutions  have  been  ordered  to 
investigate any companies that might abuse any worker 
with a view to prosecution if appropriate.
I ask the representative of the Building and Wood 
Workers’ International not to be swept up in politically 
motivated allegations. We do not want workers’ lives to 
be treated like merchandise. The lives of workers cannot 
be traded or made into political bargaining chips.
24/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
The  Acting  President  (spoke in French):  I  would 
like  to  inform  members  that  we  shall  now  hear  the 
summaries  of  the  deliberations  of  the  four  round-
table  discussions  by  their  respective  Chairpersons.  I 
now give the floor to the co-Chair of Round Table 1, 
Ms. Rita Claverie de Sciolli, Vice-Minister of Foreign 
Affairs of Guatemala.
Ms.  Claverie  de  Sciolli  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): It is my pleasure to summarize the debate that 
took place in Round Table 1 on the theme, “Assessing 
the  effects  of  international  migration  on  sustainable 
development  and  identifying  relevant  priorities  in 
view  of  the  preparation  of  the  post-2015  development 
framework”.  The  discussion  in  our  Round  Table 
identified five principal points to which I would like to 
draw the Assembly’s attention.
First of all, through the discussions we recognized 
the  positive  impact  of  international  migration  for 
development, both in countries of origin and destination. 
We  recognize  that  migration  plays  an  important  role 
in  assisting  millions  of  people  throughout  the  world 
to  emerge  from  poverty.  Also,  migration  contributes 
to  development  through  the  accumulation  of  human 
capital, greater access to health and education services 
for  migrants,  and  the  better  participation  of  women 
in  productive  employment.  Therefore,  when  there  are 
appropriate policies in place, migration can contribute 
to  achieving 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
development goals.
remainder  of 
the 
Secondly, we recognize that the High-level Dialogue 
represents  an  important  opportunity  to  ensure  that 
migration should be integrated into the United Nations 
post-2015 development agenda. Governments identified 
a  number  of  options  for  incorporating  migration  in 
the  future  framework  for  development,  including  as 
part  of  a  new  goal  in  the  international  development 
associations.  We  also  raised  a  number  of  specific 
proposals  regarding  possible  indicators  and  goals.  A 
number of Governments drew attention to the reduction 
of the human, social and financial costs of migration, 
including those related to recruitment and the transfer 
of  remittances.  Other  specific  goals  proposed  include 
promoting  the  recognition  of  foreign  qualifications 
and labour experience, protection of human rights for 
all migrants and combating trafficking in humans and 
illicit trafficking in migrants.
Thirdly, our discussions reiterated the fact that there 
continue to be a number of challenges because of the 
state of governance on migration. Many migrants and 
their families encounter violations of their human rights 
in  employment  and  in  daily  life  or  are  encountering 
excessive  migration  costs,  including  recruitment  fees 
for  jobs.  In  our  discussion,  we  concluded  that  States 
can  make  significant  social  and  economic  gains  from 
migration  when  they  respect  the  human  rights  of 
migrants and their families.
Fourthly,  we  agreed  on  the  need  to  have  data 
that  would  show  the  links  between  migration  and 
development. In particular, a number of Governments 
drew  attention  to  important  data  on  the  impact  of 
migration  on  development  in  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination,  and  with  regard 
the 
migrants  themselves  and  their  family  members.  It 
was  also  recognized  that  that  information  could  help 
Governments to design and implement national policies 
and  in  the  development  of  bilateral  and  multilateral 
policies and programmes.
to 
recognize 
the  need 
to 
Fifthly,  we 
improve 
cooperation  and  relations  between  all 
interested 
parties. That includes relationships between countries 
and  regional  organizations,  as  well  as  South-South 
cooperation, 
identified  as  particularly  promising 
areas.  A  number  of  participants  brought  up  the  fact 
that Governments should work with both international 
organizations  and  representatives  of  civil  society 
in  order  to  maximize  the  benefits  of  migration  and 
reduce  its  negative  impact.  Similarly,  the  discussion 
emphasized  the  key  role  of  the  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development, which plays an important 
part in facilitating the work of such associations. The 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
Migration and Development, Mr. Peter Sutherland, and 
the Global Migration Group were also singled out for 
their  important  roles,  the  former  for  advocating  the 
integration of migration into the United Nations post-
2015 development agenda and the latter for monitoring 
the achievement of migration goals.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the co-Chair of Round Table 1 for her statement.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Alejandro  Alday 
González,  Director  General  for  Human  Rights  and 
Democracy  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Mexico, who will speak on behalf of the co-Chairs of 
Round Table 2.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
On behalf of the United States and Mexico, co-Chairs 
13-50009
25/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
of Round Table 2, it is my honour to present a summary 
of  the  discussion  that  took  place  on  the  theme  of 
measures to ensure respect for and the protection of the 
human rights of all migrants, with particular reference 
to  women  and  children,  how  to  combat  trafficking  in 
migrants and persons, and how to ensure that migration 
is regular, orderly and safe. The Round Table’s discussion 
was a fruitful one, with broad participation by Member 
States,  United  Nations  entities  and  representatives  of 
civil society. I am therefore very pleased to share with 
the Assembly some of the key ideas that emerged from 
the discussion.
First,  there  was  consensus  on  Member  States’ 
obligation  to  promote,  respect  and  protect  the  human 
rights of all migrants in the migration process, regardless 
of their migration status. It was considered especially 
important to protect the rights and freedoms of the most 
vulnerable groups, such as women and children. Also 
recognized  was  the  importance  of  integrating  human 
rights into migration policy and designing programmes 
aimed at empowering migrants, including women, to deal 
effectively with their vulnerable situation and recognize 
their roles as partners in the development of countries 
of origin and destination. Participants highlighted the 
fact  that  migration  affects  not  only  migrant  children 
but also those who remain in their countries of origin 
and  those  born  in  the  countries  of  destination.  A 
number  of  participants  added  that  procedures  should 
take  childhood  into  consideration  and  thus  contribute 
to  effectively  protecting  and  enforcing  the  rights  of 
children,  particularly  unaccompanied  minors,  in  the 
context  of  migration,  through  safe-repatriation  and 
family-reunification policies.
It  was  agreed  in  Round  Table  2  that  half  of 
international migrants are women. While they are agents 
of  change,  they  are  very  vulnerable  to  exploitation, 
abuse,  violence  and  discrimination.  Speakers  agreed 
that Governments should design and implement policies 
with  a  gender  perspective.  There  was  also  general 
agreement  that  manifestations  and  expressions  of 
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, intolerance 
and  stereotyping  aggravate  migrants’  vulnerability. 
Participants  encouraged  Governments 
ratify, 
adhere  to  and  implement  the  relevant  international 
instruments,  to  take  account  of  them  in  national 
legislation and enhance cooperation in order to improve 
protection of all migrants’ human rights, regardless of 
their  migration  status,  so  as  to  combat  trafficking  in 
persons and ensure regular, orderly and safe migration.
to 
Speakers pointed out that migrants whose status is 
irregular are at greater risk of abuse, extortion, violence, 
discrimination  and  other  human-rights  violations, 
and  encouraged  States  to  implement  programmes  for 
regular migration. They also emphasized the fact that 
migrants  can  be  vulnerable  to  trafficking  in  persons. 
Speakers  supported  the  International  Organization 
for Migration’s appeal to countries to fully ratify and 
implement  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols, and 
urged  Government  and  civil  society  to  work  together 
in order to combat trafficking in persons and migrants.
There  was  general  agreement  on  the  need  for 
States and international organizations to pay particular 
attention  to  migrants  in  difficulties  as  a  result  of 
serious  humanitarian  situations  and  natural  disasters. 
States, international organizations, civil society and the 
private sector have a role to play in ensuring protection 
and assistance in such cases. The prioritizing of such 
protection and assistance should be based on needs and 
not on a person’s migrant status.
that 
the  opportunity 
Finally,  a  number  of  delegations  expressed  their 
satisfaction  with 
the  High-
level  Dialogue  had  afforded  to  discuss  international 
migration,  development  and  human  rights.  They  also 
voiced  interest  in  developing  initiatives  focused  on 
action to promote significant progress with this agenda.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the  representative  of  the  co-Chairs  of  Round  Table  2 
for his statement.
I now give the floor to the co-Chair of Round Table 
3, Mr. Patrick Abba Moro, Minister of the Interior of 
Nigeria.
Mr.  Abba  Moro  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of  the 
co-Chairs of Round Table 3, Nigeria and Switzerland, 
I have the honour to present the outcome of the debate 
entitled  “Strengthening  partnerships  and  cooperation 
on  international  migration,  mechanisms  to  effectively 
integrate  migration  into  development  policies  and 
promoting coherence at all levels”. The insightful and 
lively debate, engaging a variety of stakeholders, was 
framed  by  identifying  the  crucial  challenges  faced 
by  the  international  community  in  addressing  the 
multifaceted nature of migration and development. The 
following points were identified.
First, the international community often continues 
to  think  in  silos  and  should  overcome  its  sectoral 
26/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
thinking in order to move towards a holistic approach 
to migration and development.
the 
increased  number  of 
stakeholders engaged in the dialogue, the potential for 
cooperation has not been fully exploited.
Secondly,  despite 
Thirdly, the institutional set-up and legal framework 
are fragmented, posing a challenge to coherent policy 
approaches.  Discussions  on  concrete  measures  for 
addressing  those  challenges  ensued,  reflecting  the 
overarching theme of the High-level Dialogue.
Out of the rich discussion in our round table, allow 
me  to  highlight  eight  action  points  that  Governments 
and other relevant stakeholders are invited to embrace.
First,  we  should  pursue  a  whole-of-Government 
approach  with  the  necessary  resources  to  implement 
coherent migration policies in a coordinated manner.
Second, we should factor migration into all relevant 
policy  sectors,  in  particular  in  our  poverty-reduction 
strategies  and  development  cooperation  frameworks. 
In  that  regard,  the  post-2015  agenda  offers  a  unique 
opportunity to send a strong signal on the relevance of 
migration as a key factor for development.
Third,  we  should  recognize  civil  society  as  an 
important  set  of  actors,  not  only  at  the  grass-roots 
level, but also as partners in all spheres of migration, 
development policies and dialogue processes.
Fourth, we should embrace the concept of bilateral 
and multilateral partnerships between all stakeholders, 
in particular those that are still absent from the debate, 
such as the private sector and migrants themselves, as a 
guiding principle to address migration and development 
domestically and internationally.
should 
recognize 
the 
Fifth,  we 
important 
contributions  of  regional  and  global  platforms  such 
as  the  regional  consultative  processes  and  the  Global 
Forum  on  Migration  and  Development,  and  ensure 
mutual enrichment between the different processes and 
levels.
Sixth,  we  should  continue  to  engage  in  the 
Global  Forum  as  the  leading  expert-level  State-led 
informal  global  platform  for  dialogue  and  consider 
complementing  the  international  dialogue  with  future 
United  Nations  high-level  dialogues  for  stocktaking 
and agenda-setting.
Seventh,  we  should  acknowledge  the  relevance 
of  the  Global  Migration  Group,  especially  the  recent 
steps  undertaken  to  achieve  greater  coherence  and 
coordination, and stress the need to pursue those efforts 
with the support of Member States.
Eighth,  we  should  adopt  a  human  rights-based 
approach  as  a  guiding  principle  for  all  migration  and 
development  actions.  Governments  should  further 
consider ratifying all relevant conventions, in particular 
the  Domestic  Worker  Convention  (No.  189)  of  the 
International Labour Organization.
Taking a step back and looking at the larger picture, 
the debate in Round Table 3 at its core addressed the 
way  forward  on  global  migration  governance.  The 
strong message that emerged from the discussion was 
the need to move from theory to practice. However, one 
major obstacle was identified — the ambivalent, if not 
to say negative, perception of migrants and migration 
in many of our societies. Such perceptions stand in the 
way of mustering the necessary political will to jointly 
pursue  a  coherent,  coordinated  and  action-oriented 
agenda for the way forward.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the co-Chair of Round Table 3 for his statement.
I now give the floor to the co-Chair of Round Table 
4,  Mr.  Shahidul  Haque,  Permanent  Secretary  in  the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh.
Mr. Haque (Bangladesh): On behalf of my co-Chair, 
Mr. Romodanovsky of the Russian Federation, and my 
fellow participants in Round Table 4, it is my privilege 
to present the outcome of the deliberations of that round 
table.  I  am  here  to  share  with  the  General  Assembly 
some  of  the  discussion  that  took  place  in  our  round 
table on international and regional labour mobility and 
its impact on development.
Before I present a couple of points, let me give my 
overall  impression  as  co-Chair.  The  countries  shared 
their  experiences  both  as  countries  of  origin  and  as 
countries of destination on an extremely positive note 
and in a very constructive manner and in the spirit of 
addressing some of the difficulties in that area. We see 
ample convergence in terms of interest, concerns and 
how  we  can  make  a  better  impact  on  labour  mobility 
and migration.
We were asked to look at three things. We looked 
at  the  overall  labour  mobility  practices  in  regions 
and  globally,  identified  some  of  the  obstacles,  and 
then  determined  what  still  needs  to  be  addressed. 
As  I  said,  when  countries  —  both  of  origin  and  of 
13-50009
27/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
destination — made their presentations, most of them 
focused on three areas — policy, legislation and what 
is  working  and  what  needs  to  be  fixed.  That  was  the 
broader framework.
There are a few points that I would like to present 
here. First, there was a sense in the presentations that 
everybody was willing to make migration safe, orderly 
and humane, based on labour-market demands — that 
is something that is also very crucial — indeed, some of 
the delegations suggested that if labour mobility is out 
of sync with labour-market demand in a given situation, 
it is likely that it will end up in failure. On that point, 
a  number  of  ideas  were  raised  by  participants  in  the 
round table.
Secondly,  the  rights  of  migrant  workers  —  and 
for  that  matter,  migrants —  were  at  the  centre  of  the 
debate, both for countries of origin and for destination 
countries, which was extremely encouraging. We were 
gratified to see that everyone in the room was concerned 
about  migrants,  rather  than  solely  about  the  issues  of 
mobility and movement and economic gain. Economic 
gain always played a secondary role in our discussions.
There  was  also  a  feeling  that  if  we  can  manage 
migration  in  a  positive  and  constructive  manner  that 
will, in the end, promote development and help sustain 
the development that we have achieved. In the process, 
there  were  countries  that  identified  the  risks  that 
migrants  often  undertake  by  engaging  in  an  unsafe 
journey. That needs to be stopped. In that regard, I am 
thinking of irregular migration and human trafficking. 
That  was  also  quite  comprehensively  dealt  with  by 
all  countries,  not  only  in  the  destination  countries’ 
presentations  but  also  in  the  presentations  of  the 
countries of origin.
Thirdly, countries also felt that the rights of migrant 
workers are at the centre of our undertaking in terms 
of development. At the same time, the responsibilities 
of  migrants  also  came  up,  which  I  think  is  a  valid 
concern. A particular country raised the issue, stating 
that when migrants enjoy rights, they also have certain 
responsibilities. It was clear that the round table was an 
extremely  conducive  environment  for  discussing  that 
particular issue.
There  was  also  a  call  to  reduce  the  cost  of 
migration. When we are talking about reducing the cost 
of migration, it was interesting to note that it was not 
only  the  remittance  costs  that  we  were  talking  about. 
That issue is extremely important, since, as we know, if 
the cost of remitting money were reduced by only 5 per 
cent, it would add $60 billion to the $400 billion that 
we  are  talking  about.  But  that  was  not  the  only  point 
that was heard in the room. There was also the cost of 
recruitment. Some countries pointed out how that could 
be reduced, and we heard a very strong voice from civil 
society and the business sector as to how ethically we 
could possibly recruit people to go abroad to work and 
live.
So, that is the second component under the rubric 
of  cost,  but  there  is  another  component  that  came 
up. It relates to the cost that is often borne by family 
members  who  are  left  behind.  What  are  countries  of 
origin doing to address that? How can we best ensure 
that  families  who  are  left  behind  are  also  taken  care 
of? There was also a valuable presentation by Professor 
Lant  Pritchett  from  Harvard  University’s  Kennedy 
School, where, in a very interesting way, he presented 
a  couple  of  figures,  and  we  all  know  that  there  are  a 
number of models that currently exist, suggesting that 
there would be enormous gains from facilitating labour 
mobility. He said that 
“given the huge gaps existing in labour productivity 
and  wage  differentials,  even  a  modest  labour 
mobility  increase  could  yield  substantially  higher 
return, and that could be the greatest intervention 
to benefit development”.
So,  he  is  suggesting  what  he  has  termed  an 
“international  agenda  for  development  cooperation”, 
which I do not think has been explored that much.
Lastly,  there  was  a  consensus  to  work  together 
to  build  alliances,  corridors  and  partnerships,  both 
bilaterally, regionally and globally, in order to ensure 
that labour mobility becomes and remains an integral 
component  of  sustainable  development,  hopefully 
beyond  2015  and  2030.  There  also  were  interesting 
discussions  as  to  how  the  world  will  look  in  2030. 
Will it be the same, and if not, how would the labour 
market move? How would other factors move? If other 
factors underwent revolutionary changes, would labour 
mobility  also  go  through  the  same  changes?  Would 
people still remain at home and contribute to a foreign 
economy? Those are some of the thoughts that emerged 
during our discussions.
I will end with a particular message. In the end, we 
are talking about people. We are talking about migrants. 
We are talking about planet Earth.
28/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the co-Chair of Round Table 4 for his statement.
I give the floor to the Deputy Secretary-General.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  Let  me  begin 
by adding my voice to those of many others who have 
expressed shock and grief at the tragic and terrible loss 
of life after a ship carrying migrants sank off the coast 
of Lampedusa. As you have all noticed, the number of 
victims  has  been  growing  by  the  hour,  now  reaching 
hundreds of people. There are still many people missing. 
With the President’s agreement, I suggest that we now 
reflect deeply on the basic message from that disaster 
while we honour the victims with a moment of silence. 
I thank members very much for that act of solidarity 
and compassion.
It has been extremely interesting for me to follow 
the Assembly’s deliberations in the High-level Dialogue 
over  the  past  two  days.  There  has  been  a  rich  and 
penetrating review of migration, a topic that is so central 
and so crucial to the national and international agenda 
in today’s globalized world. Having presided over the 
preparations for the first High-level Dialogue in 2006 
and  based  on  what  I  have  heard  during  the  Dialogue 
today  and  yesterday,  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that 
we have come a long way. I am especially encouraged 
that so many areas of common interest and action have 
been identified. I am also impressed by the constructive 
engagement of our partners, including civil society, the 
private sector and academia, in our common mission, 
one of the greatest and most important challenges for 
all of us.
We  all  share  the  objective  of  making  migration 
a  positive  force,  a  positive  force  in  national  and 
international affairs. We have to work to ensure that the 
benefits of migration are realized and felt by all migrants 
in  countries  of  origin  and  destination  countries  alike. 
The joint Declaration (resolution 68/4), a milestone on 
the  significance  of  migration  for  development  and  on 
the  protection  of  the  rights  of  migrants,  points  to  the 
remarkable  strides  we  have  made.  We  also  share  the 
goal of strengthening coherence and cooperation.
through 
the 
Assembly’s  commitment  to  working  together  within 
the United Nations, the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM), and the Global Forum on Migration 
Development,  we  have  been  able  to  make  such 
important  progress.  Now  we  must  look  at  the  future 
and  the  remaining  challenges.  Let  us  learn  from  the 
We  should  all  feel  proud 
that, 
concrete experiences before us to see what works and 
yields results, and let us redouble our efforts. We still 
have  much  more  to  achieve.  Our  formal  and,  I  would 
say,  informal  follow-up  work  is  extremely  important. 
Let me briefly outline five concrete areas.
First,  we  should  build  on  the  momentum  of  the 
High-level  Dialogue  to  generate  greater  support  for 
integrating  migration  into  the  global  development 
agenda.  In  order  to  do  that,  we  need  to  make  a  case 
that  migration  is,  in  fact,  a  catalyst  for  development. 
Right  now,  reducing  the  economic  and  social  cost  of 
migration and protecting the human rights of migrants 
are two areas where we can make tangible differences. 
Also,  let  us  not  forget  the  importance  of  supporting 
countries in promoting peace and security, as well as 
human rights and the rule of law.
We  have  to  work  on  all  of  those  three  pillars  of 
the  United  Nations  to  create  a  stable  and  harmonious 
society,  so  that  migration  can  be  a  choice,  not  a 
desperate  necessity,  as  someone  put  it  so  beautifully 
here yesterday. Those pillars are, of course: there is no 
peace  without  development,  there  is  no  development 
without  peace  and  there  is  no  lasting  peace  or 
sustainable  development  without  respect  for  human 
rights and, I would add, the rule of law. We should also 
think and act strategically about how migration can fit 
into the post-2015 development agenda, on its own and/
or in combination with other drivers for development.
Secondly,  we  need  to  improve  the  daily  lives  and 
working  conditions  of  migrants  across  the  globe.  For 
example, the cost of transferring remittances must be 
reduced.  Member  States  have  brought  that  up  several 
times. We also need to facilitate international mobility 
and  the  transfer  of  skills.  Training  and  university 
degrees should be validated quickly and recognized in 
all countries. That is something we have also discussed 
at  length,  with  many  good  ideas  on  how  it  could  be 
done. Of course, as we already know, a great number of 
domestic workers, many of them migrant women, face 
exploitation and other precarious circumstances. I urge 
all Members represented here to ratify and implement 
the  International  Labour  Organization’s  Domestic 
Workers  Convention  (No.  189)  and  the  International 
Convention on the Rights of All Migrant Workers and 
Members of Their Families.
Thirdly, we need to address the situation of migrants 
trapped in crisis areas. I have seen so many examples 
of that throughout my life at the United Nations and in 
the Swedish Foreign Service. Recent events around the 
13-50009
29/31
A/68/PV.28 
04/10/2013
world have shown yet again that emergencies can erupt 
without warning and that they test our systems to their 
limits.  Member  States,  international  organizations, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector  all  have  a  role  to 
play in dealing with such situations.
Fourthly,  we  need  to  strengthen  the  data  and 
evidence base. Former Finnish President Paasikivi once 
said:  “The  source  of  wisdom  is  knowing  the  facts”.  I 
agree  with  that.  If  we  are  to  succeed  in  integrating 
migration  into  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
which is a very valid cause indeed, we need data for all 
countries on international migrants and their core social 
and economic characteristics. That will be crucial if we 
are to develop sound policies and monitor global goals 
and targets.
Fifthly,  we  need  to  give  thought  to  and  develop 
an  overarching  strategy  for  achieving  our  objectives. 
Yesterday,  the  Secretary-General  outlined  his  vision 
and views on where we should focus our efforts. Many 
constructive  proposals  and  creative  ideas  have  been 
presented by participants over the past two days. Let us 
make sure that we, on different tracks, not least through 
the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General, 
the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development, 
the  Global  Migration  Group  and  the  International 
Organization for Migration, pursue those proposals in 
an action-oriented and pragmatic way. I believe that the 
Global Forum meeting to be held next year in Sweden 
will be one of several important events in that regard. 
Our challenge is to establish a plan, or, more modestly, 
a map for the road ahead, together with a monitoring 
framework with clear follow-up mechanisms.
In closing, let us agree that it is within our grasp 
and  within  our  power  to  make  migration  a  positive 
force  for  development,  as  well  as  for  peace  and 
security and human rights. We have the skills; we have 
the  tools.  Based  on  this  High-level  Dialogue  and  the 
commitments made here, I am confident we also have 
the political will.
I  wish  to  thank  the  colleagues  who  have  helped 
make  this  meeting  a  success.  I  particularly  wish  to 
thank the Secretary-General’s Special Representative, 
Mr. Peter Sutherland, and the Director General of the 
IOM, Mr. William Lacy Swing, for their committed and 
continuing leadership and advocacy.
I also with to thank all of the participants — Member 
international  organizations,  representatives 
States, 
of  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and  the  academic 
world — for their extremely valuable contributions.
We  all  have  important  work  to  do.  Millions  of 
migrants worldwide are looking to us with hopes and 
expectations. Let us do our utmost to turn the political 
will  and  forward-looking  approaches  demonstrated 
at  this  High-level  Dialogue  into  positive  actions  and 
results, not only for them but for all of us.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the Deputy Secretary-General for his statement and for 
having taken the time to participate in the closing of the 
High-level Dialogue, which underscores once again its 
importance.
The President of the General Assembly, Mr. John 
Ashe, has asked me to deliver the following statement 
to the Assembly on his behalf.
(spoke in English)
“We have come to the end of our second High-
level  Dialogue  on  Migration  and  Development. 
While  it  lasted  only  two  days,  this  Dialogue  was 
the  culmination  of  many  years  of  hard  work  and 
preparation  and  benefited  from  the  support  of 
many individuals. I wish to express my gratitude to 
the Secretary-General for his unwavering support 
in  promoting  and  emphasizing  this  issue  within 
the  United  Nations.  My  appreciation  goes  also  to 
Mr. Peter Sutherland, Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General  on  Migration,  for  his  tireless 
efforts  representing  the  United  Nations  at  the 
Global  Forum  and  working  with  Member  States 
to  find  practical  solutions  to  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges of our time.
“I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  eight  co-Chairs  of 
the  four  round  tables  for  the  enormous  efforts 
they  exerted  to  make  the  interactive  discussion 
among  all  stakeholders  a  success.  I  likewise  pay 
tribute to the Permanent Mission of Mexico to the 
United  Nations,  under  whose  effective  leadership 
delegations  debated  and  yesterday  adopted  a 
Declaration  that  conveys  and  reaffirms  many  of 
our shared beliefs on migration (resolution 68/4).
“Tribute 
is  also  due 
to  Member  States, 
representatives of non-governmental organizations, 
civil society and the private sector for their various 
contributions to both the national and the regional 
preparations that preceded the Dialogue.
30/31 
13-50009
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.28
“The four round tables of the Dialogue allowed 
for interactive, mutli-stakeholder debates, insightful 
presentations  and  frank  exchanges.  Allow  me  to 
highlight  some  keys  points.  In  the  presentations, 
we  heard  many  examples  of  how  migration  can 
work  for  development  and  examples  of  practical 
measures  to  address  urgent  migration  challenges. 
Participants further announced concrete initiatives 
to implement some of the ideas put forward by the 
Secretary-General, and they affirmed many of the 
key  messages  from  his  report  prepared  for  this 
meeting (A/68/190).
their  belief 
“Participants  expressed 
that 
migration can be a powerful enabler of development 
and should be an integral feature of the post-2015 
development  agenda.  Efforts  should  focus  on 
facilitating  international  mobility  and  enhancing 
the  benefits  of  migration,  while  protecting  and 
promoting the human rights of migrants and their 
families.
“Participants were also emphatic that no country 
can address international migration alone and that 
dialogue  and  cooperation  on  migration  should  be 
strengthened and the coherence of sectoral policies 
at  the  national  level  should  be  promoted  to  fully 
harness the benefits of migration.
“Participants  stressed 
that  migration  can 
have  positive  development  impacts  if  supported 
by  the  right  policies  and  that  the  time  had  come 
to  integrate  migration  into  national  development 
strategies and plans.
“Much  emphasis  was  placed  on  the  need 
for  access  to  decent  work  and  decent  working 
conditions in countries of origin, transit countries 
and  destination  countries.  The  need  to  respect, 
promote  and  protect  the  rights  of  migrants,  in 
particular  of  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  migrant 
women  and  children  and  migrants 
in  crisis 
situations, was also highlighted.
“Apart  from  the  substantive  consideration 
of  the  question  of  migration  and  development, 
the  Dialogue  has  once  again  demonstrated  that 
international  migration  and  development  can 
be  constructively  discussed  within  the  United 
Nations. It is, therefore, now time to transform the 
key messages emerging from the Dialogue into an 
action-oriented agenda with concrete follow-up.
“The  eight-point  plan  outlined  yesterday  by 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  offers  a  clear 
road map for where to focus our efforts. I urge the 
Assembly to see in this, and in the many excellent 
proposals and ideas that have been put forward over 
the course of the past two days, a programme for 
action.
“Seven years ago, the Assembly embraced the 
proposal by the Secretary-General to create a Global 
Forum. Undoubtedly, the activities and meetings of 
the Global Forum on Migration and Development 
have  built  trust  and  strengthened  cooperation. 
I  hope  that  under  the  able  leadership  of  Sweden, 
the Global Forum on Migration and Development 
will  become  increasingly  focused  on  concrete 
follow-up,  continuing  to  work  with  the  Global 
Migration Group, the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General on International Migration and 
Development, Governments and civil society.
“It is my hope that we will be fully and justifiably 
proud of our progress and that we might be able to 
confidently  affirm  that  migration  has  been  fully 
integrated into the post-2015 development agenda. 
We are doing a better job of addressing the plight of 
migrants who are stranded in humanitarian crises, 
ensuring  that  each  individual  act  of  migration  is 
wanted  and  voluntary.  Sufficient  legal  channels 
exist  to  accommodate  the  demand  for  human 
mobility,  and  the  various  costs  of  migration  have 
been reduced. With initiatives like our High-level 
Dialogue,  I  firmly  believe  that  we  are  setting  the 
stage to realize those shared aspirations.”
(spoke in French)
The High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development is now concluded.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (e) 
of agenda item 21?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.
13-50009
31/31
