United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
39th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.39
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Rosenthal 
(Guatemala), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 
Agenda item 40 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/116)
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  or  position,  I  would 
like to remind delegations that explanations of vote are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  Solomon  Islands 
voted  today  in  favour  of  resolution  68/8,  “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. 
Solomon  Islands  commends  Cuba  for  taking  the 
most peaceful path in seeking the unconditional lifting 
of  the  blockade  through  the  United  Nations.  This  is 
the only place where we the international community, 
countries big and small, gather to ensure that what is 
moral  is  upheld,  what  is  right  is  respected,  and  what 
must be undone is lifted. 
We continue to believe that each and every country 
has inalienable rights to define and determine its own 
political system and to participate in international trade. 
These  are  the  fundamental  principles  of  international 
law. The 53-year-old coercive economic, financial and 
commercial blockade on Cuba has an adverse impact on 
the people of Cuba and hampers their development and 
progress,  as  indicated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General in document A/68/116. This morning Solomon 
Islands was one of the 188 countries that voted in favour 
of the resolution. 
For  the  past  22  years,  since  1991,  the  world  has 
annually called on our partner and friend, the United 
States  of  America,  to  end  the  economic,  financial 
and commercial blockade against the peaceful people 
of  Cuba.  The  resolution  reaffirms  a  commitment  of 
Solomon  Islands  and  the  General  Assembly  to  the 
principles, letter and spirit of the Charter of the United 
Nations  —  respect  for  the  principles  of  sovereign 
equality  among  member  States,  and  non-interference 
and  non-intervention  in  the  domestic  and  internal 
affairs of another State. 
The  world  is  changing,  and  changing  fast.  We 
speak of rights. Let us uphold those rights. We speak of 
freedom. Let us respect each State’s freedom to adopt 
its own political system. We speak of the rule of law. Let 
us conduct ourselves in conformity with international 
law. We speak of multilateralism. Let us do away with 
unilateralism. 
Solomon  Islands  has  continued  to  develop  and 
bolster  its  relations  with  both  the  United  States  and 
Cuba.  We  have  more  than  100  medical  students 
studying  in  Cuba.  As  part  of  growing  relations,  we 
have established an embassy in Havana this year. The 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-53630 (E)
*1353630*
A/68/PV.39 
29/10/2013
Pacific Islands Forum admitted Cuba as a Post Forum 
Dialogue  Partner.  Cuba  joins  the  United  States  as  a 
Dialogue Partner in my region.
In  closing,  Solomon  Islands  calls  for  the  full 
implementation of the resolution and hopes to see the 
lifting of the embargo give way to a peaceful coexistence 
between two great States, the United States and Cuba, 
as a spirit and constructive engagement unites two very 
close neighbours.
Mr. Pisarevich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Today, 
just as has been the case for more than two decades, the 
majority of the Member States of the United Nations, 
including  the  Republic  of  Belarus,  advocated  in  the 
General Assembly a clear and valid demand to put an 
end to the economic, commercial and financil embargo 
of Cuba.
We  are  convinced  that  it  is  an  uncivilized  and 
unconstructive  way  of  dealing  with  disputes 
in 
contemporary international relations. The Republic of 
Belarus  continues  to  deem  any  unilateral  economic 
measures  to  be  a  means  of  exerting  political  and 
economic  pressure  against  developing  countries.  We 
believe  they  are  contrary  to  the  basic  principles  of 
international law and the principles and purposes of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
legal documents. 
We advocate the inalienable right of every State to 
determine its own development model. Any unilateral 
attempts  by  any  States  to  involve  themselves  in  the 
internal  political  affairs  of  other  States  by  using 
military, political, economic or other forms of pressure 
are not acceptable.
Belarus calls upon the United States to undertake 
policies  based  on  unconditional  respect  for 
the 
commonly  recognized  principles  of  international  law 
in  its  relations  with  Cuba  and  any  other  countries  in 
regard to which it is taking coercive measures. Those 
principles include the sovereign equality of States and 
non-interference  in  internal  affairs,  and  respect  for 
the  freedom  of  international  trade  and  internatonal 
merchant shipping.
the  Secretary-General, 
At  the  same  time,  we  believe  we  must  ensure 
that 
the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  other 
representatives  of 
the  United  Nations  having 
responsibilities  in  international  affairs  in  the  areas 
of  peace,  security,  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development  are  more  involved  in  the  problem  of 
coercive  measures  and  economic  pressure  being  used 
by the United States and the European Union. 
Based  on  that,  Belarus  calls  for  the  creation  of 
special procedures by the United Nations Human Rights 
Council  on  the  question  of  human  rights  and  other 
coercive measures, to call the internatonal community’s 
attention  to  the  unilateral  coercive  measures  applied 
against Cuba and other countries, which violate human 
rights. Belarus does not cease to admire the courage of 
the Cuban people, who continue to fight to defend their 
State, national digity and sovereignty. 
Belarus is proud to support the Cuban sisters and 
brothers and calls for for an end to the blockade against 
the  Cuban  people.  We  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
68/8, with more than 180 other Members of the United 
Nations.
Mr.  Chipaziwa 
the 
(Zimbabwe):  We 
statements  made  by 
associate 
ourselves  with 
the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China,  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and by 
the representative of Ethiopia on behalf of the African 
States (see A/68/PV.38).
We voted for resolution 68/8. Zimbabwe once again 
expresses  its  deep  concern  over  the  continuation  of 
the  comprehensive  unilateral  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  against  the  Republic 
of Cuba. Those vicious sanctions, which have spanned 
more  than  half  a  century,  continue  to  inflict  severe 
economic  hardships  on  the  people  of  Cuba.  Similarly 
the economic sanctions prohibit Cuba from reaching its 
maximum  potential  for  trade,  economic  development 
and prosperity. The economic blockade also undermines 
Cuba’s right to development.
For twenty-one consecutive years the overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community  represented 
in  this  Hall  have  consistently  demanded  the  lifting 
of  the  trade  embargo  against  Cuba.  However,  the 
Assembly’s call to lift it have been met with complete 
defiance. Zimbabwe is of the view that any reasons for 
the continuation of the economic blockade of Cuba are 
indefensible,  hypocritical  and  counterproductive.  The 
majority  of  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations 
have consistently rejected the passing of national laws 
with  extraterritorial  impact,  and  all  other  coercive 
economic  measures,  including  unilateral  sanctions 
which are targeted mainly at developing countries that 
seek to reassert their sovereignty. As a victim of those 
2/8 
13-53630
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.39
Zimbabwe  shares 
the  view 
the 
very  same  ill-conceived  illegal,  immoral  sanctions, 
Zimbabwe fully understands their impact.
that 
trade 
embargo  against  Cuba  contravenes  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  in  regard  to  all  the  norms  and 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States. 
The  sanctions  constitute  an  egregious  violation  of 
fundamental  norms  of  international  law,  as  they 
infringe on the sovereignty of Cuba. Furthermore, the 
embargo is a violation of the principles of the sovereign 
equality of States and non-interference in one another’s 
domestic affairs.
Lastly,  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  contrary  to 
accepted  international  trade  regulations.  Zimbabwe 
therefore  joins  other  countries  in  condemning  the 
pernicious trade embargo against Cuba and calls for its 
immediate and unconditional lifting in order to enable 
the people of Cuba to pursue their economic and social 
destiny.  That,  by  any  definition,  cannot  constitute  a 
threat to any other State.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): At the outset, let me welcome the presence of 
His Excellency Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and renew our total support 
to the Government and people of Cuba in the face of the 
embargo imposed by the United States against Cuba.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, as 
well as the statement delivered by the representative of 
Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/
PV.38).
The embargo imposed on Cuba for several decades 
has  created  an  unacceptable  precedent  in  dealings 
between  Member  States  in  a  manner  that  is  contrary 
to  international  law.  It  has  unnecessarily  subjected 
the  people  of  Cuba  to  several  economic,  social  and 
political hardship. It has deepened the suffering of the 
Cuban  people  and  placed  the  United  States  in  direct 
confrontation with the universal consensus rejects the 
embargo, an embargo that has so far caused losses of 
more than a trillion dollars for Cuba. 
For the twenty-second year, the General Assembly 
is meeting to reaffirm, by an overwhelming majority, 
the  illegitimacy  and  inhumanity  of  the  embargo 
imposed by the United States on Cuba and its people. 
The embargo is contrary to the provisions of the Charter 
of the United Nations and the principles of international 
law, notably the principle of equal sovereignty among 
States  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
Member  States,  and  to  the  international  instruments 
pertaining to human rights, international humanitarian 
law and the principles of international trade.
Regrettably, and despite several resolutions adopted 
by the General Assembly by an overwhelming majority 
and  several  resolutions  adopted  by  other  regional, 
specialized  and  political  organizations,  the  economic, 
financial  and  commercial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States against Cuba since 1959 is still in force 
today, as if nothing had happened. The support by 188 
Member States for resolution 68/8 during this session 
once more reaffirms that the Member States do not see 
any legal basis for the embargo imposed on Cuba, and 
that it must be lifted.
The fact that, in this very Hall, Israel voted against 
the  resolution  only  confirms  that  it  does  not  respect 
international law and that it violates international law, 
clearly  supporting  illegitimate  practices  against  the 
rights of Member States of the United Nations. 
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  confirms  that  the 
unilateral coercive economic measures imposed by the 
United States and the European Union against Syria are 
a  flagrant  violation  of  the  principles  of  international 
law. They represent a hegemonic tool of the West and 
serve only the purposes of oppression and economic and 
political  coercion.  Such  measures  seek  to  undermine 
the independence of national political decisions and to 
interfere in the internal affairs of Member States in a 
way that runs counter to the provisions of the Charter. 
They are also a manifestation of a policy of collective 
punishment that those States pursue.
Such  illegitimate  and  unjust  measures  can  only 
foment  negative  feelings  towards  the  West,  as  the 
majority  of  such  measures  have  been  imposed  by 
Western  States,  particularly  the  United  States  of 
America  and  the  States  of  the  European  Union.  Such 
measures  seek  to  weaken  the  Governments  of  other 
Member  States  or  to  bring  pressure  to  bear  on  those 
Governments  in  order  to  force  them  to  change  their 
national policies.
My  country  reiterates  its  condemnation  of  the 
sanctions imposed by the United States of America and 
the  European  Union  on  the  Syrian  people.  We  stress 
the  toll  of  and  adverse  effects  that  such  illegitimate 
unilateral measures have had on the life and prosperity 
of  our  people.  Such  unilateral  illegitimate  measures 
prevent  Syrians  from  meeting  their  basic  needs, 
13-53630
3/8
A/68/PV.39 
29/10/2013
in  terms  of  access  to  medications,  food,  medical 
equipment,  fuel  for  heating,  agricultural  needs,  civil 
aviation  transportation  services  and  communications 
equipment.  Besides  harming  the  country’s  economy, 
such  measures  also  constitute  a  violation  of  the 
collective human rights of the Syrian people.
In  that  context,  we  recall  that  the  imposition  of 
coercive unilateral measures is a violation of the relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions,  including  resolution 
66/186,  entitled  “Unilateral  economic  measures  as 
a  means  of  political  and  economic  coercion  against 
developing  countries”  and  resolution  66/156,  entitled 
“Human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive  measures”,  in 
which the General Assembly stressed its condemnation 
and  rejection  of  unilateral  economic  measures,  as  it 
considered  such  measures  to  be  an  impediment  to 
healthy trade relations among States and an obstruction 
to the full realization of the rights provided for in the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other 
international human rights instruments. In that context, 
I would mention the right of individuals and peoples to 
development. Such measures prevent the enjoyment by 
each and every individual of a standard of living that 
ensures  enjoyment  of  the  rights  to  health,  prosperity 
and  access  to  food,  medical  treatment,  education  and 
the necessary social services. 
In  accordance  with  its  mandate,  the  General 
Assembly is called upon to take the necessary measures 
to  put  an  end  to  the  unilateral,  unjust  and  hostile 
embargoes  and  economic  sanctions  policies  that  are 
being  pursued  by  some  States  of  the  Organization  in 
violation of international law.
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  would  hope  that  all 
forms  of  embargo  and  unilateral  sanctions  imposed 
by  the  United  States  on  Cuba  and  many  other  States, 
including my country, Syria, will be brought to an end. 
My  country  also  hopes  that  the  illegitimate,  immoral 
and  inhumane  embargo  imposed  by  Israel  on  the 
occupied Palestinian territories, including the occupied 
Golan,  will  be  lifted  as  well.  We  hope  that  the  voice 
of  the  international  community,  as  expressed  by  the 
General Assembly and other international institutions 
and  organizations,  will  be  respected  by  the  United 
States of America and fully taken into account by its 
legislative institutions. Accordingly, Syria has voted in 
favour of resolution 68/8. 
Ms.  Rivera  Sánchez  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  would  like  to  make  the  following  general 
statement after the voting. El Slavador voted in favour 
of  resolution  68/8,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. 
First, we would like to highlight the fact that this 
is the first time that El Salvador is making a statement 
on  the  embargo  before  the  General  Assembly.  In  a 
statement he made in the general debate last September, 
President Mauricio Funes Cartagena said: 
“[We]  advocate  once  again  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade against Cuba... as I believe that Cuba is 
part  of  the  American  soul  and  that  the  blockade 
is  a  relic  of  the  past.  The  brotherly  people  of 
Cuba, like all peoples of the world, have the right 
to  seek  development  and  well-being 
through 
comprehensive integration.” (A/68/PV.10, p. 4) 
In that context, El Salvador would like to reiterate 
the importance of fulfilling the provisions of resolution 
47/19 of 24 November 1992, which emphasizes the need 
to  put  an  end  to  the  financial,  commercial,  economic 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba and calls for an end to that the embargo. 
It  also  indicates  that  under  Cuban  jurisdiction,  the 
application of national laws with extraterritorial effect 
violates  the  legitimate  interests  of  the  people  as  well 
as the right to all forms of trade and navigation. Those 
laws  are  an  impediment  to  all  efforts  by  the  Cuban 
people  to  ensure  social  and  economic  development. 
Moreover,  the  mechanisms  currently  in  place  to 
impose  the  embargo  violate  the  principles  governing 
global economic, commercial, monetary and financial 
relations as well as numerous resolutions of the United 
Nations and many other international organizations.
El Salvador reiterates the call contained in a special 
communiqué issued by a number of Heads of State and 
Government from South America who met in Panama 
City at the twenty-third Ibero-American Summit, held 
on 18 and 19 October. They reaffirmed free exchange 
and  transparent  practices  in  international  trade  and 
rejected  unilateral  coercive  measures  that  affect  the 
well-being  of  all  peoples  and  their  access  to  and  full 
enjoyment of the benefits of international cooperation 
in all arenas, and impede the process of integration. One 
such  case  is  the  financial,  commercial  and  economic 
blockade of the United States against Cuba. 
To  conclude,  I  underscore  and  defend  the  Cuban 
cause, and demand an end to the embargo imposed by the 
United States, which has caused enormous damage to 
the people and has made no headway towards attaining 
4/8 
13-53630
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.39
the goals set by those who originally advocated it. In 
addition,  I  reiterate  the  deep  sympathy  and  solidarity 
of the people and Government of El Salvador with the 
people  and  Government  of  Cuba  in  this  cause.  There 
so many reasons to dismantle this anachronism in the 
twenty-first-century. 
Mr. Aung Kyaw Zan (Myanmar): I am taking the 
floor to explain my delegation’s position on resolution 
68/8, which was adopted this morning. 
My delegation aligns itself with the statements made 
by the representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China, and by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (see  
A/68/PV.38).
In keeping with the purposes and principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  Myanmar  has  always 
strived  to  promote  respect  for  the  sovereign  equality 
and  territorial  equality  of  States.  Similarly,  as  a 
member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Myanmar has 
steadfastly  adhered  to  the  principled  position  of  the 
Movement in opposing the use of unilateral trade and 
economic  sanctions  that  have  been  imposed  against 
some  members  of  the  Movement  for  the  purpose  of 
exerting political pressure. 
As a country that has experienced similar unilateral 
sanctions  before,  Myanmar  fully  understands  that 
the  imposition  of  sanctions  on  developing  countries 
can  have  a  devastating  impact  on  the  efforts  of  those 
countries to achieve sustainable development. Myanmar 
therefore  supports  the  final  document  adopted  at  the 
sixteenth Summit of Heads of State and Government of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, which calls 
for the international community to adopt all necessary 
measures  to  put  an  end  to  the  embargo  against  the 
people  and  Government  of  Cuba  and  protect  the 
sovereign  right  of  all  other  countries  to  expand  trade 
and economic relations with Cuba.
In line with previous United Nations resolutions on 
this item, we firmly believe that constructive dialogue 
is needed to foster mutual trust and understanding, as 
well  as  harmony  and  peaceful  coexistence  among  the 
nations of the world. It was in that context that Myanmar 
voted in favour of the resolution.
Mr.  Khitchadeth 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/68/116)  under 
this  agenda  item.  My  delegation  wishes  to  associate 
itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  Islamic  of  Republic  of  Iran 
on  behalf  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.38). 
We  are  here  today  to  express  our  sympathy  to 
the  innocent  and  peace-loving  people  of  Cuba,  who 
have  continued  to  endure  the  misery  resulting  from 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  against  them.  That  embargo  has  impeded 
the Cuban Government’s efforts to eliminate poverty, 
promote economic and social development and achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Moreover,  the 
embargo  violates  international  law,  goes  against  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
constitutes  a  transgression  of  the  rights  of  sovereign 
States to peace, development and security. 
that 
jeopardizes 
In  accordance  with  resolution  68/8,  Member 
States  must  neither  promulgate  nor  enforce  any 
law,  regulation  or  measure 
the 
sovereign right of Member States to participate in the 
international financial and commercial system. Based 
on the universal principle of sovereign equality under 
the Charter of the United Nations and international law, 
no nation has the right to interfere in the internal affairs 
of  another  nation,  despite  any  differences  that  may 
exist in their sociopolitical systems. As a sovereign and 
independent nation, the Republic of Cuba has the right 
to choose its own political system, as well as its path of 
development, based on its specific conditions. 
In  2012,  188  Member  States  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  67/4  on  this  item,  and  this  year  again  188 
Member States voted in favour of resolution 68/8 on the 
same item. That is irrefutable proof that the battle for 
the lifting of the blockade is recognized and supported 
by  the  vast  majority  of  the  international  community. 
Therefore, the blockade must be lifted immediately and 
unconditionally. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
joins the majority of Member States in supporting the 
Cuban people in that fight. As Members of the United 
Nations, we should do everything we can to help Cuba 
to fully reclaim its legitimate right to integrate into the 
globalized economy. 
In  that  spirit,  my  delegation  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  68/8,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. 
Mr. Osman (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
we wish to align ourselves with the statement made by 
13-53630
5/8
A/68/PV.39 
29/10/2013
the representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and with those made on behalf of the African 
Group and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba (see A/68/PV.38).
We  welcome  the  presence  of  the  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba in the Assembly today. 
We  confirm  that  we  support  Cuba’s  position,  as 
expressed  by  the  aforementioned  representatives  and 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs.  For  many  decades, 
the  General  Assembly,  the  most  representative  and 
significant organ of the United Nations, has called for 
an  end  to  that  coercive  measure,  which  contravenes 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  international  law,  namely,  the  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial  economic  blockade  against  Cuba. 
However, that call has been made in vain. 
The overwhelming majority of Member States have 
been  calling  for  an  end  to  that  blockade.  Today  once 
again,  the  General  Assembly  affirmed  its  position, 
when 188 Member States voted in favour of resolution 
68/8. My country, the Sudan, also voted in favour of that 
resolution.  We  have  listened  to  the  representatives  of 
several Member States, who stated that the imposition 
of extraterritorial law contravenes the principles of the 
equal sovereignty of States and non-interference in the 
internal  affairs  of  States.  That  is  an  issue  that  we  all 
agree on. However, we have failed to put an end to that 
practice to date. 
Unfortunately,  my  country,  the  Sudan,  is  also  a 
victim, like Cuba, of a unilateral blockade imposed by 
the United States of America that affects all walks of 
life,  as  described  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of Cuba. It has especially affected the economic, social 
and development sectors of the Sudan, just as Cuba has 
been deprived of its ability to import spare parts for vital 
sectors of the economy that are needed for development, 
such as communication, railways and civil aviation, as 
well as the sugar industry and medication.
I  am  not  exaggerating  when  I  say  that  the 
embargo  has  fuelled  conflict  in  my  country,  because 
all  the  areas  that  are  conflict-ridden  are  plagued  by 
underdevelopment. The failure to achieve development, 
which is the result of a lack of resources, can also be 
attributed to the lack of spare parts for sugar factories 
and other vital sectors of our economy.
That being said, I wonder — and we believe that this 
Assembly agrees with us — how the United Nations can 
draw up a road map for a post-2015 development agenda, 
combat  poverty  and  achieve  sustainable  development 
while we face laws that hinder international trade and 
impose blockades and embargoes on countries that are 
striving to achieve a life with dignity for their people 
and the right livelihood for their nations. How can we 
save lives, ensure medication, help the elderly, children 
and  the  poor  while  there  are  countries  that  deprive 
people of their basic needs to live and survive? We do 
not believe that such actions represent the principles for 
which the United Nations was established. 
Today, I call upon the President of this important 
forum,  which  represents  the  voice  of  all  humankind, 
and the Secretary-General — and I know that both the 
Assembly and the Secretary-General wish to promote 
the principles of this international Organization — to 
speak  out,  as  representatives  have  already  done,  and 
reject any unilateral measures that can undermine the 
proper foundations of international relations. 
We  have  heard  many  previous  speakers  list  the 
unilateral  economic  measures  imposed  by  certain 
States. Those measures are in line with other coercive 
steps that go beyond the sphere of trade and affect other 
sectors, such as the refusal to grant Heads of State visas 
and  preventing  them  from  attending  the  meetings  of 
the General Assembly, as happened to His Excellency 
Mr. Al-Bashir, President of the Republic of the Sudan. 
Such  measures  undermine 
the 
United  Nations.  Moreover,  if  they  continue,  they  will 
undermine the lofty principles enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations, the foremost among them being 
the equal sovereignty between States and the promotion 
of friendly relations among States. 
the  credibility  of 
That  is  why  we  look  to  the  President  and  the 
Secretary-General  to  raise  their  voices  and  reject 
measures,  such  as  the  one  by  the  United  States  of 
America  that  deprived  the  President  of  the  Sudan  an 
entry visa in violation of the host country agreement. 
That  is  a  unilateral  measure  similar  to  the  unilateral 
economic embargo on Cuba and the Sudan, which has 
been in effect for many decades. We strongly call upon 
the President of the General Assembly, as it is his moral 
responsibility  to  stop  any  measures  that  violate  the 
host country agreement. That is why this morning the 
Sudan  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  68/8,  which  calls 
for putting an end to the unfair economic embargo. 
6/8 
13-53630
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.39
Mr.  Vidal  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
in  previous  years,  Uruguay  voted  in  favour  of  the 
resolution on this item (resolution 68/8), introduced by 
the delegation of Cuba, as we believe that the embargo 
against  that  country  is  contrary  to  the  principles  and 
purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
contravenes the rules of international law, in particular 
the rules governing international trade and those of the 
World Trade Organization.
Uruguay’s position fits into the broader context of 
the defence of multilateralism, non-intervention and the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, which are fundamental 
principles of our diplomacy. That situation also affects 
another fundamental principle — the legal equality of 
States.  It  is  precisely  out  of  respect  for  that  principle 
that our country rejects any unilateral or extraterritorial 
coercive measure that violates the rules of international 
law  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  clearest  contemporary  example  is  the 
embargo unfairly imposed against the Republic of Cuba. 
The  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  has  expressed  on 
many occasions and repeats again today its opposition 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
against Cuba, which severely affects the well-being of 
the Cuban people. 
As  a  matter  of  principle,  Uruguay  rejects  and 
does  not  recognize  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
domestic laws of other States in its national legislation. 
In that regard, we condemn the application of unilateral 
coercive measures by the United States against Cuba, 
as  they  represent  a  form  of  pressure  and  an  obstacle 
to dialogue and the necessary rapprochement between 
the  parties,  which  we  hope  will  be  resumed.  By 
voting  in  favour  of  the  resolution,  Uruguay  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a  legitimate 
instrument  for  resolving  disputes  between  States  and 
for  promoting  effective 
international  cooperation, 
human  rights,  security  and  understanding  between 
peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in explanation of vote.
The  representative  of  Cuba  has  asked  to  take  the 
floor  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  remind  him 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and 
to  5  minutes  for  the  second,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mr. Godard knows he is lying when he asserts that the 
United States Government promotes respect for human 
rights  in  Cuba  (see  A/68/PV.38).  The  embargo  is  a 
massive, flagrant and systematic violation of the human 
rights  of  the  Cuban  people  and  is  an  act  of  genocide, 
according to article 2, subparagraphs (b) and (c) of the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide. The United States Government has 
no  moral  authority  whatsoever  to  present  itself  as  an 
accuser in that regard. It is responsible for wars that have 
killed millions of civilians. It carries out extrajudicial 
executions  with  drones  and  deadly  technologies.  It 
applies  the  death  penalty  in  a  racially  and  socially 
discriminatory  manner,  and  it  commits  horrendous 
legal  errors.  It  also  kidnaps  people  and  isolates  them 
from  justice  in  arbitrary  detention.  It  cruelly  uses 
torture and forced feeding in the case of hunger strikes. 
States 
manipulates  the  issue  of  human  rights  as  it  sees  fit. 
Its double standards destroyed the old and discredited 
Commission on Human Rights, which imploded when 
the  United  States  prevented  a  resolution  whose  sole 
intent was to investigate human rights violations at the 
Guantánamo  naval  base,  which  have  been  committed 
and are committed against foreign prisoners. With the 
establishment of the Human Rights Council hope was 
renewed, but the United States very quickly boycotted 
it.  Today  American  delegations  are  again  generating 
pressure,  promoting  resolutions 
their 
own  narrow  self-interests  and  that  lack  objectivity, 
impartiality and universality. 
The  Government 
to  support 
of 
the  United 
Mr. Godard also lies when he says that the United 
States  provides  medical  supplies  and  equipment  to 
Cuba. I ask him if he could give some examples of that, 
and I invite him to keep doing so. Why then does the 
United  States  not  lift  the  embargo  on  medicines  and 
medical  equipment?  If  what  Mr.  Godard  claims  were 
true, then why is the United States is impeding the free 
flow of information and Cubans’ access to the Internet 
by preventing Cuba’s connection to nearby submarine 
cables? 
It  is  not  true  that  the  United  States  Government 
supports the Cuban people’s desire to freely decide their 
own  destiny.  That  country  usurped  the  independence 
that the Cuban people won against Spanish colonialism, 
imposed  the  Platt  Amendment,  intervened  militarily, 
occupied  parts  of  our  territory  like  the  Guantánamo 
naval  base  and  supported  bloody  dictatorships.  In 
13-53630
7/8
A/68/PV.39 
29/10/2013
taking  our  freedom,  the  United  States  established  an 
economic,  political  and  media  blockade,  launched  an 
invasion of Playa Girón, exercised State terrorism and 
adopted  legislation,  including  the  Helms-Burton  Act, 
that authorizes full intervention in Cuba. It supports a 
policy of destabilization and regime change. 
The United States delegation is lying when it says 
that its Government provides humanitarian assistance. 
In so doing, it cynically counts the multimillion-dollar 
funds  earmarked  by  the  United  States  Agency  for 
International  Development  for  subversion 
in  our 
country, the hard-earned remittances and packages  sent 
by  Cuban  emigrants  to  their  families  and  the  modest 
donations  sent  by  non-governmental  organizations  
after having overcome numerous obstacles. 
Why  does  the  United  States  Government  not 
respect  the  constitutional  right  and  the  freedom  of 
United States citizens to travel to Cuba as they travel 
to any other country, including in times of war? Why 
does it not lift the embargo on the telecommunications 
sector? Why does it not allow Cuba to be connected to 
submarine cables to access the Internet? Why does it not 
eliminate its illegal and subversive radio and television 
broadcasts? It would be better if it allowed the purchase 
of  American  software  and  the  training  of  specialists, 
eliminated the restrictions on information, and allowed 
the use of services that provide technological support, 
which are currently prohibited in Cuba. Why does it not 
allow cooperation and exchange programmes between 
universities  and  provide  scholarships  in  various  areas 
of science and technology? 
The  United  States  pays  mercenaries  and  agents 
in  Cuba.  It  maintains  a  quadrennial  public  budget 
of  more  than  $196  million  to  produce  supposed 
dissidents.  Mr.  Alan  Gross,  who  was  punished  under 
due  process  and  who  was  cared  for  with  the  greatest 
consideration  for  humanitarian  concerns,  is  a  United 
States contractor who charged large sums of money to 
undertake subversive activities, using non-commercial 
technology,  against  the  constitutional  order  of  Cuba. 
Those  acts  are  also  provided  for  and  sanctioned  in 
the  United  States.  The  United  States  Government  is 
responsible  for  the  situation  of  Mr.  Gross  and  should 
begin by sitting down and talking seriously if it wishes 
to find a solution to his case. 
The  entire  world  better  understands  the  United 
States  use  of  new  technologies  and  its  networks  to 
impose its military and economic hegemony following 
the  revelations  confirming  the  existence  of  a  United 
States system of global espionage, including against its 
own citizens and those of other countries, including the 
foreign diplomats of its closest allies. The United States 
is  constantly  riding  roughshod  over  international  law 
and the basic principles and purposes of the Charter of 
the United Nations, which Mr. Godard says it promotes.
The updating of the economic model, Mr. Godard, 
is an issue of the sovereignty of the Cuban people. We 
are not in the least bit interested in his opinion, nor in 
the opinion of the United States Government.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its 
consideration of agenda item 41?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
8/8 
13-53630
