United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
14th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 September 2013, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.14
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Deng (South 
Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by His Excellency Mr. Elio di Rupo, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium.
Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elio  di  Rupo,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Di Rupo (Belgium) (spoke in French): It was 
in  my  country,  in  Ypres,  during  the  First  World  War, 
that chemical weapons were used in a conflict for the 
first  time.  We  can  all  recall  the  dreadful  suffering  of 
thousands  of  those  soldiers.  Almost  100  years  later, 
that same suffering is being inflicted on thousands of 
Syrians. Despite the international Geneva Protocol of 
1925, the history of the world — a shared history — is 
repeated, from Ypres to Damascus.
This  is  the  second  year  that  I  have  addressed  the 
General  Assembly  from  this  rostrum.  In  one  year,  so 
many hopes have been raised and fulfilled but, at the 
same  time,  so  many  additional  war  crimes  have  been 
committed.  A  year  ago,  I  spoke  of  30,000  Syrian 
deaths.  Today  there  are  120,000.  And  that  conflict  is 
not the only one. While we are talking here, atrocities 
continue in various parts of the world.
All of us here must show as much courage as the 
men and women who are fighting in the streets for their 
freedom  and  dignity.  Within  the  United  Nations,  we 
have  everything  we  need  to  act,  while  those  who  are 
fighting often have nothing but their courage to live on. 
If a veto must be cast, it should be a veto on tyrants and 
their crimes.
No  one  can  end  a  famine  or  stop  a  tyrant  alone.
Peace  is  a  shared  responsibility.  That  is  why  there  is 
no  alternative  to  multilateralism  and  politics,  if  we 
seek  to  improve  the  lot  of  humankind.  That  is  what 
motivates  Belgium’s  commitment,  which  is  political, 
financial  and  at  times  even  military,  as  the  fifteenth 
most significant contributor to the United Nations.
My  country  is  also  of  the  view  that  among 
our  responsibilities  we  have  the  responsibility  to 
protect — that is to say, the responsibility to prevent and 
fight the particularly atrocious crimes of genocide, war 
crimes, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing. 
Belgium  fully  supports  the  actions  of  the  United 
Nations  in  that  regard.  In  2014,  we  will  organize  an 
international conference in Brussels on the prevention 
of genocide.
When we work together, we achieve results. Mali is 
proof of that. But let us not forget that nothing is ever 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48668 (E)
*1348668*
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
settled forever. For it to last, peace must be continuously 
nourished.  I  would  like  to  commend  in  particular  the 
recent  efforts  of  the  international  community  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  The  population 
of the north-east of the country has for years suffered 
massacres,  mass  rapes,  the  forced  recruitment  of 
soldiers, including of child soldiers, pillage and forced 
displacement.  Just  yesterday,  witnesses  told  me  of 
martyred children. That is shameful.
The  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Security  Council  to  strengthen  the  mandate  of  the 
United  Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  are  bearing 
fruit.  The  Intervention  Brigade  is  playing  an  active 
role  in  protecting  the  population.  The  Addis  Ababa 
Framework  offers  a  genuine  possibility  for 
the 
stabilization of the entire region. However, let us make 
no mistake: agreement at Kampala is essential for the 
process  to  be  successful.  Pragmatic  solutions  must 
also  be  found —  without,  however,  accepting  general 
amnesty or allowing for impunity for war crimes and 
crimes against humanity.
Belgium stands ready to contribute to such solutions. 
The  territorial  integrity  of  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo  must  also  be  respected.  All  external 
interference must cease. Belgium urges the Congolese 
authorities to implement the structural reforms needed 
in  the  army  and  the  police,  so  as  to  re-establish  the 
rule  of  law  throughout  the  national  territory  and  to 
guarantee the prosperity of the Congolese people.
Going to war, building walls and curtailing rights 
is  always  easier  than  building  bridges  and  keeping 
the  peace.  It  is  easier  to  build  walls  than  to  organize 
a  democratic  system  or  build  hospitals  and  schools. 
In  our  contemporary  globalized  world,  conflicts  can 
be  resolved  only  by  political  solutions.  That  is  why 
Belgium supports the efforts of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, 
Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States,  as  he  seeks  to  bring 
the  parties  to  the  negotiating  table.  In  that  regard,  I 
welcome  the  American-Russian  initiative  to  hold  the 
“Geneva II” conference.
It  is  not  death  that  metes  out  justice;  it  is  respect 
for the law. It is the law that organizes human societies, 
protects  the  weak  and  prevents  violence.  Law  is 
essential because a world without rules — whether in 
terms  of  civil  interactions,  trade  or  finance —  leaves 
humankind  face  to  face  with  its  worst  enemy:  itself. 
Respect for the law is a foundation of the life we share. 
Laws  must  be  respected,  including  in  situations  of 
conflict.  I  am  referring  in  particular  to  humanitarian 
law, so that victims can receive assistance and care.
Belgium has echoed and tirelessly backed the calls 
from  humanitarian  agencies  for  the  obstacles  to  their 
activities to be lifted. We demand that access to health 
care be improved on the ground everywhere, including 
in  Syria.  All  parties  must  respect 
international 
humanitarian  law.  My  country  participates  actively 
in  efforts  to  provide  assistance  to  populations  that 
have  been  victims  of  fighting.  The  onset  of  winter 
and the sharp rise in the number of victims, refugees 
and  displaced  persons  mean  that  the  international 
community must step up its efforts further still.
The law must also stop impunity. Peace cannot ever 
be built on amnesty for the worst crimes, or turning a 
blind eye thereto. Together with 56 other States, Belgium 
has called for the situation in Syria to be referred to the 
International Criminal Court. The work of the Court is 
contributing to bringing about an era of responsibility. 
All States should cooperate with the Court.
The  law  must  also  make  it  possible  to  bring 
dictatorships  and  oppression  to  an  end.  In  2010,  all 
those  who  defend  democracy  welcomed  the  advent  of 
the Arab Spring. I am not one of those who today have 
turned  their  backs  on  that  hope.  Let  us  not  forgot  all 
of  the  women  and  men  in  Tunisia,  Libya,  Egypt  and 
elsewhere who wish to live in peace. We must support 
them  and  promote  the  holding  of  free  elections.  We 
should  encourage  them  to  draft  constitutions  that 
guarantee fundamental rights, justice and equality. We 
should also recall that winning an election or exercising 
authority  following  elections  does  not  give  someone 
the right to oppress minorities. True democracy means 
respecting and protecting minorities.
The  law  must  guarantee  individual  freedoms. 
Freedom means, for example, the right of young women 
to  study  and  to  choose  their  partners  for  themselves 
or  to  remain  single.  Freedom  also  means  the  rights 
of  women  to  move  in  public  as  they  please.  Freedom 
also  means  to  right  to  practice  one’s  religion  or  to 
practice  none  at  all.  Freedom  also  means  the  right  of 
heterosexual and homosexual couples to walk hand in 
hand in the street or in other public spaces. I am proud 
that Belgium guarantees those fundamental freedoms. 
I  am  also  proud  that  my  country  promotes  efforts  to 
spread such freedoms everywhere in the world.
2/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
While  I  am  speaking  of  continuing  our  efforts 
and making them lasting, I would like to mention the 
resumption of the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. It is 
absolutely vital that we seize the opportunity afforded 
by our American friends. A solution must be arrived at 
now, based on the coexistence of two States, with the 
State  of  Israel  and  an  independent  State  of  Palestine 
living side by side in peace and security. We have also 
made  it  very  clear  that  we  are  against  colonization. 
In that context, Belgium is ready to host a conference 
in  Brussels  aimed  at  ensuring  that  private  economic 
partners  provide  support  for  the  peace  process.  We 
believe  that  there  can  be  no  economic  plan,  however, 
unless there is a political plan with a concrete timetable.
Peace  and  security  also  depend  on  harmonious 
prosperity,  whose  benefits  must  be  shared  equitably 
around the globe and among its citizens. According to 
scientists, the world’s ecological footprint now exceeds 
the  world’s  capacity  for  regeneration  by  about  50  per 
cent. That situation is untenable and affects everything 
on the planet. 
I welcome the United Nations initiative to convene 
Heads of State and Government here in New York for 
a  forum  on  sustainable  development.  It  is  here  that 
less  developed  and  developed  countries  can  solve  the 
huge  challenge  of  sustainable  development  together. 
Every  country  has  problems  that  are  either  shared  or 
complementary  and  interconnected.  By  that  I  mean 
extreme  poverty,  desertification, 
the  exodus  for 
ecological reasons of millions of people, the exhaustion 
of natural resources and climatic warming.
Despite 
the  progress 
that  has  been  made, 
much  remains  to  be  done  to  meet  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Hunger,  poverty  and  unequal 
access  to  education  and  health  care  are  intolerable 
injustices. We must continue to mobilize to fight them. 
That is why Belgium asks that the efforts made under 
the rubric of post-2015 development be merged with the 
goals of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development in a single negotiation framework within 
the  United  Nations.  That  single  framework  should 
bring together the economic, social and environmental 
aspects that are becoming facts of life for all of us.
I would like to touch on one final subject, that is, 
espionage  and  cybercrime.  Our  colleague  President 
Dilma  Rousseff  asked  a  true  question  for  today  (see 
A/68/PV.5). Is it permissible to ignore privacy laws in 
the  name  of  security  and  the  fight  against  terrorism, 
two  areas  that  are  basic  for  all  peoples?  I  support 
the  call  by  the  President  of  Brazil  for  protecting  the 
private  lives  of  citizens  everywhere,  in  particular 
on  the  Internet.  She  proposed  the  establishment  of  a 
multilateral  framework  designed  to  effectively  ensure 
the  protection  of  data  online.  The  Internet  must  not 
become an invisible battleground. It should remain an 
instrument of freedom and development for all, a place 
where all can communicate in peace and security.
In  2014,  along  with  other  nations,  Belgium  will 
solemnly  commemorate  the  centenary  of  the  First 
World  War.  We  will  do  it  out  of  duty  to  the  memory 
of  the  young  men  from  more  than  50  countries  who 
came to die on the battlefields of my country in order 
to liberate us. They were not even 20 years old. We will 
also commemorate the war’s centenary in order to teach 
young  people  of  today,  so  that  they  too  can  become 
militants for peace.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Belgium for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Laurent Salvador Lamothe, 
Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and 
External Coopertion of the Republic of Haiti
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister of 
Planning  and  External  Coopertion  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti.
Mr. Laurent Salvador Lamothe, Prime Minister and 
Minister of Planning and External Coopertion of the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Laurent  Salvador 
Lamothe,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Planning 
and External Coopertion of the Republic of Haiti, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Lamothe  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
first like to express my warm and fraternal gratitude to 
the President of the Republic of Haiti, His Excellency 
Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, for the trust he has placed 
in me and, above all, for his courage and unwavering 
determination to build a new Haiti. I would also like to 
congratulate Mr. John Ashe, Permanent Representative 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  for  his  election  to  the 
13-48668
3/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session,  as  well  as  to  salute  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon.
I am proud to speak in this forum of modern global 
history, one that has witnessed so many great leaders 
discussing their vision for a world that is more just and 
a humankind that is more enlightened and balanced.
It  has  been  13  years  since  the  States  Members 
of  the  Organization,  buoyed  by  the  basic  values  of 
freedom and equality, met to launch a new world order 
for  development  when  they  adopted  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2). It has been a strong period 
for  the  United  Nations,  which  continues  to  stand  out 
through its efforts to call on the peoples of the world to 
unite to overcome the challenges linked to poverty and 
social exclusion.
I speak on behalf of Haiti when I voice our pleasure 
at  the  increasing  vitality  of  the  Organization,  which 
over  the  years  has  succeeded  in  preserving  the  ideals 
of peace and solidarity. My country has always sought, 
with the United Nations, to provide a better future to 
generations to come. We have done so enthusiastically, 
because over the past two centuries, Haiti — the land of 
Toussaint Louverture, Alexandre Pétion, Jean-Jacques 
Dessalines and Henri Christophe — has never missed 
the great historic events. It is up to all of us to preserve 
this vital tool for the future of humankind.
The theme of the sixty-eighth session of the General 
Assembly  is  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting  the  stage”.  This  is  the  ideal  opportunity  for 
Haiti to present to the entire world an initial assessment 
of the work carried out by the Government, work which 
largely meets the aims of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) and which allows us to see a burgeoning 
new Haiti.
to 
Before  presenting 
those  achievements 
the 
Assembly,  it  is  important  to  recall  the  situation  that 
Haiti found itself in when President Michel Martelly was 
sworn in. In January 2010, Haiti was in a particularly 
critical situation, especially because of the devastating, 
large-scale earthquake. The natural disasters following 
the  earthquake  exacerbated  the  already  very  difficult 
problems.  Despite  daily  difficulties,  Haiti  is  now 
resolutely  and  definitively  on  the  path  of  progress. 
Our  country  is  gradually  recovering  from  the  natural 
disasters it experienced and today is facing the future 
with confidence. We have adopted effective measures 
and  policies  that  are  focused  on  a  strategic  long-term 
development plan.
The  aims  underlying  our  Government’s  action  go 
hand in hand with the achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  However,  the  development  under 
way cannot take place without a deep-seated reform of 
the public administration and good political governance. 
That is why the rule of law is one of our priorities. 
In  that  regard,  we  have  made  great  strides  in  28 
months. A Supreme Council of the Judiciary has been 
put in place to ensure the independence of judges and 
of all the justices appointed to the Court of Cassation. 
The  professionalism  of  the  Haitian  National  Police 
enables us today to provide and guarantee security  and 
to  create  a  climate  conducive  to  investment,  which  is 
necessary to combat extreme poverty. The performance 
of our police force has meant that Haiti is now ranked 
as one of the safest countries in the Caribbean. 
Next  year  will  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
military  and  police  presence  of  the  United  Nations 
in  Haiti.  The  Haitian  Government  welcomes  the 
implementation of the plan for the gradual withdrawal 
of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti, 
which  is  now  possible  thanks  to  the  considerable 
progress achieved in the area of security.
of 
the 
The 
implementation 
constitutional 
mechanisms envisaged in the context of the rule of law 
is  an  ongoing  priority  for  the  Government.  We  have 
managed  to  create  a  climate  conducive  to  political 
stability and to the expression of ideas and democratic 
values.  The  Haitian  press  enjoys  full  freedom,  and 
members of the political opposition exercise their rights 
without restrictions. 
I would also like to mention the commitment and 
work  of  the  Government  in  consolidating  the  rule  of 
law  and  ensuring  the  sustainability  of  democratic 
institutions. To that end, the Government continues to 
give  its  full  support  to  the  transitional  college  of  the 
Permanent Electoral Council to ensure that legislative 
and  local  elections  take  place  as  soon  as  possible. 
Despite its lack of resources, the Haitian Government 
has already allocated significant funds to the electoral 
body. The President of the Republic of Haiti is personally 
involved in initiating a dialogue with stakeholders and 
political parties and is encouraging them to participate 
in the upcoming elections in order to respect the process 
of democratic change, as it is essential to the rule of law.
4/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
With  regard  to  education,  more  than  1.2  million 
Haitian children have benefited from the free education 
programme put in place by the Government. We have 
achieved that in particular by establishing a universal, 
free  and  compulsory  education  programme.  That 
is  a  major  achievement  for  Haiti,  and  one  that  is  in 
keeping  with  one  of  the  most  important  Millennium 
Development  Goals:  the  achievement  of  universal 
primary education by 2015. The Government is aware 
that  this  achievement  does  not  resolve  the  challenge 
of providing access to quality schooling for everyone. 
That  is  a  new  objective  that  we  are  determined  to 
achieve. Moreover, an ambitious programme to combat 
illiteracy is under way. It will impact more than 250,000 
people in 2014.
With  regard  to  combating  hunger  and  extreme 
poverty  — 
another  Millennium  Development 
Goal — despite the serious social inequality in Haiti, 
the  Government  has  made  considerable  efforts  to 
avoid a humanitarian crisis. To achieve its goals in the 
fight  against  extreme  poverty,  the  Government  has 
invested  more  than  $150  million  in  social  assistance 
and  protection  programmes,  which  is  a  first  for  our 
country. The programmes are aimed at helping the most 
vulnerable. 
Since 2012, three ministries have been established 
to  strengthen  public  policies  for  the  elimination  of 
extreme  poverty.  The  Government  is  pursuing  a 
national food-security policy that includes a series of 15 
measures that are expected to yield results in the short, 
medium and long terms. In the short term, the objective 
is, first, to stabilize the price of basic consumer goods 
and, secondly, to provide assistance to those living in 
extreme  poverty.  In  the  medium  and  long  terms,  the 
objective is to increase national production and to reduce 
our food dependence. We have also introduced a social 
innovation that is unprecedented in the history of our 
country by initiating a series of social programmes for 
the most vulnerable groups under the theme “Help the 
poor”. After one year of operation, those programmes 
are  now  reaching  more  than  1  million  Haitian  people 
living  in  extreme  poverty:  thousands  of  mothers, 
students, older persons, disabled people and victims of 
natural disasters. 
Finally, along the same lines, I would like it to be 
noted that of the 1.5 million earthquake refugees who 
were living in tents in subhuman conditions, more than 
1.25 million have now been rehoused.
In the twenty-first century, people are still starving 
in  Haiti.  That  is  unacceptable  and  intolerable.  As 
Nelson  Mandela  said,  “overcoming  poverty  is  not  a 
gesture of charity, it is an act of justice.” For President 
Martelly and myself, combatting extreme poverty is a 
commitment that we make to history.
In  terms  of  health  care,  there  are  considerable 
challenges  to  be  met  in  Haiti.  The  prevalence  of 
certain  diseases,  the  high  rates  of  infant  mortality 
and  the  shortcomings  in  health-care  infrastructure 
have  deprived  millions  of  Haitians  of  good-quality 
health services. That situation was exacerbated by the 
earthquake  in  2010.  Furthermore,  in  October  2010, 
there was a very serious outbreak of cholera in Haiti, 
for which the Haitian people continue to pay a heavy 
price in human lives. 
Given 
the  catastrophic  consequences  of 
that 
scourge — more than 8,000 dead and 650,000 people 
infected — the Haitian Government is proposing that 
a significant amount of the new global fund to combat 
cholera be earmarked exclusively for the eradication of 
the disease in Haiti. While we continue to believe that 
the United Nations has some moral responsibility with 
regard to the outbreak of the epidemic, it is nonetheless 
true that the Organization has already supported some 
of  the  Government’s  efforts  to  combat  the  disease. 
However,  those  efforts  are  far  from  enough.  We 
would  therefore  like  to  propose  the  establishment  of 
a joint commission, including members of the Haitian 
Government and representatives of the United Nations, 
to  consider  ways  and  means  to  definitively  eradicate 
the disease in Haiti.
In the face of those major public health challenges, 
the Haitian Government has not stood idly by. Working 
with our national and international partners and public 
health  experts,  we  have  managed  to  curb  the  spread 
of  HIV/AIDS.  In  terms  of  treating  AIDS  today,  Haiti 
has moved from a prevalence rate of 5.5 in 2000 to 2.2 
today, with a projected 1.5 for 2015. Such results are a 
just reward for the years of effort that have made Haiti a 
model universally recognized in international scientific 
and academic circles. But we will not stop there. Much 
remains to be done in terms of prevention and treatment. 
We  very  much  hope  that  we  can  definitively  halt  the 
spread  of  AIDS  and  make  treatment  more  affordable. 
In  Haiti,  the  public  health  network  and  the  provision 
of  health  care  are  largely  insufficient.  New  efforts  in 
terms of prevention must be made.
13-48668
5/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
The question of the environment is of major concern 
to  the  Haitian  Government,  because  the  vegetation 
cover over a very large area has disappeared. In order to 
raise awareness among people about the need to replant 
that  vegetation,  large-scale  programmes  have  been 
set  up,  and  others  are  being  drawn  up,  with  the  aim 
of meeting the challenges of replanting, reforestation, 
providing drinking water and sanitation and protecting 
ecosystems  —  all  of  which  have  been  neglected  for 
far  too  long.  Without  appropriate  protection  of  the 
environment, there will be no sustainable development; 
no food security is possible for a growing population, 
nor can there be a decline in poverty and misery.
As set forth in the noble Millennium Development 
Goal on the topic, the Haitian Government, aware of the 
need for gender equality, has made   significant efforts to 
ensure equality between Haitian men and women. While 
Haitian society has always accorded an important role 
to women, the Government has undertaken significant 
initiatives  to  enable  women  to  have  access  to  highly 
responsible positions in public administration. Thirty-
five per cent of the Cabinet is made up of women, and 
they  have  important  portfolios.  Much  remains  to  be 
done to ensure the full emancipation of Haitian women, 
particularly among the most vulnerable populations. In 
our country, women deserve better access to education 
and health-care services.
I  conclude  by  asking  the  Assembly  to  observe 
more  closely  the  new  Haiti  that  has  been  emerging 
over the past two years despite its day-to-day problems 
and the extremely difficult legacy, of which we are all 
aware.  That  Haiti  is  one  where  more  girls  and  boys 
go to school, where new international-class hotels are 
opening  up  their  doors  every  day,  breathing  new  life 
into our tourism, where the economy is growing at the 
rate of 4.6 per cent, where inflation has been stabilized 
at 6.7 per cent, where for the first time foreign direct 
investment  has  increased  by  more  than  19  per  cent 
annually,  where  a  fierce  fight  against  smuggling  and 
corruption  is  being  carried  out  and  where  today  the 
lowest rate of homicide in the Caribbean is seen. The 
new  Haiti  is  modernizing  the  old  Haiti  little  by  little 
and is adopting courageous reforms. The new Haiti is 
increasingly focusing on constructive dialogue with the 
country’s social partners — the press, political parties 
and  the  private  sector.  That  Haiti  has  the  courage  to 
invest in the worst-off and the poorest, despite a degree 
of misunderstanding and some criticism.
A  new  Haiti  is  emerging.  More  than  ever  before, 
Haiti feels that it is taking its place in the great family of 
the United Nations and in the international community, 
without  which  many  of  the  achievements  of  the  past 
three years would not have been possible.
We  are  doing  a  great  deal  with  very  little. 
If  the  international  community  had  fully  met  its 
commitments — amounting to $10 billion — made   at 
the 31 March 2010 meeting, the results would be even 
better, and the suffering of the Haitian people would be 
less harsh. Today, we are still far from our goal, because 
only a part of those commitments have been honoured.
Based on its desire for transparency and efficiency 
and  to  avoid  duplication  of  effort  on  the  part  of 
non-governmental  organizations, 
the  Government 
has  stepped  up  its  leadership  role  and  set  up  a 
mechanism  —  the  National  Coordination  Framework 
for External Development Aid in Haiti — to take over 
the management of international assistance.
Haiti is once again present on the regional scene. 
This  year  alone  our  country  has  hosted  three  major 
regional  summits,  including  those  of  CARICOM,  the 
Ministers of the Association of Caribbean States, and 
Petrocaribe.  During  those  meetings,  there  were  also 
discussions  on  the  best  regional  strategies  to  combat 
hunger, abject poverty and exclusion, topics that are in 
line with the Millennium Development Goals. 
Finally, the Haiti of which I speak is the one that 
Haitian men and women are working tirelessly to forge 
each and every day. The results are coming; progress 
is  already  palpable.  Our  country  is  no  longer  on  the 
front pages of the international press owing to repeated 
coups d’état, social turmoil, insecurity and instability. 
Our  country  is  henceforth  stable  and  secure,  thanks 
in  particular  to  the  tremendous  efforts  of  the  Haitian 
National Police, with the support of the United Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti. 
Work on infrastructure and on the reconstruction of 
public buildings destroyed by the earthquake has begun. 
The country offers excellent investment opportunities 
in all sectors. Haiti today is on the right track, moving 
towards a new era of social and economic progress and 
respect for human rights. We are acting specifically to 
achieve progress towards a Haiti that is more solidarity-
based  and  more  prosperous  —  a  Haiti  that  the  entire 
world will want to visit to see its extraordinary sights. 
Long live Haiti!
6/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister of Planning and External Cooperation of the 
Republic of Haiti for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Laurent Salvador Lamothe, Prime Minister and 
Minister  of  Planning  and  External  Cooperation 
of  the  Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of 
New Zealand 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of New Zealand.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Key,  Prime 
Minister of New Zealand, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Key (New Zealand): Greetings! Let me begin 
by congratulating President Ashe on his election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly. He is taking the 
reins at an important time. We wish him every success, 
and he has New Zealand’s support.
The recent events in Kenya, Iraq and Pakistan show 
how troubled the world can be. We commiserate with 
the  Governments  and  peoples  of  those  countries  and 
extend our deepest sympathies to those who lost family 
and friends in those tragic incidents.
For most of us, born after the Second World War, the 
United Nations has been at the centre of our conception 
of how the world organizes itself. But the reality of the 
United Nations can be quite challenging. It is the one 
place where the countries of the world meet, talk and 
try to find solutions to global and regional issues.
Sadly,  some  of  those  discussions  can  become  so 
arcane that they are sometimes quite removed from the 
issues they claim to be addressing. That is a concern in 
particular for small States, to which the Organization is 
so vitally important. 
Even more sadly, the United Nations has too often 
failed  to  provide  solutions  to  the  problems  the  world 
expects  it  to  resolve.  The  gap  between  aspiration  and 
delivery  is  all  too  apparent,  as  the  situation  in  Syria 
has again so brutally reminded us. But any failures of 
this  institution  are  less  failures  of  the  Organization 
than they are failures on our part, as its Member States, 
and on the part of those who have the responsibility of 
leading those States.
There would be no dreadful humanitarian situation 
in Syria if Syria’s leaders had upheld the commitments 
made to the international community and to the Syrian 
people when Syria joined the Organization and ratified 
the human rights covenants.
The  Organization  would  not  also  have  been  a 
powerless  bystander  to  the  Syrian  tragedy  for  over 
two years if the lack of agreement among the Security 
Council’s  permanent  members  had  not  shielded  the 
Al-Assad  regime,  thereby  reconfirming  the  fears  of 
New Zealand and others that had opposed the veto at 
the original San Francisco Conference, in 1945.
New Zealand is pleased that the Security Council 
has at last met on the situation in Syria. The Secretary-
General  has  advised  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly  that  the  United  Nations  Mission  has  now 
confirmed,  unequivocally 
that 
chemical weapons have been used in Syria. The report 
(see  A/67/997)  found  clear  and  convincing  evidence 
that  surface-to-surface  rockets  containing  the  nerve 
agent Sarin were used on 21 August.
and  objectively, 
The  information  in  the  report  also  makes  it  very 
clear  that  those  rockets  must  have  been  fired  by  the 
Syrian regime. As the Secretary-General has said, these 
are war crimes, and those responsible must be brought 
to account.
Those  that  try  to  cast  doubt  on  the  report’s 
conclusions  make  themselves  look  foolish  and  do  a 
disservice to the United Nations.
It  is  imperative  now  that  the  Council  act.  It  must 
adopt a resolution that responds to the use of chemical 
weapons. It must find a means to hold those responsible 
to  account  and  establish  an  effective  mechanism 
for  the  destruction  of  those  weapons  in  line  with  the 
proposal  developed  by  the  United  States  and  Russia. 
The resolution must also provide for the protection of 
the civilian population. 
While  Syria  necessarily  commands  our  attention, 
I also want to spend some time on some more positive 
developments for both the Organization and its Member 
States.  I  want  to  begin  with  my  own  country,  New 
Zealand, whose emergence as a fully independent State 
has proceeded in parallel with the development of the 
United Nations.
13-48668
7/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
New  Zealand  was  present  at  the  founding  in  San 
Francisco. We take pride in the fact that we were able 
to influence the drafting of the Charter, particularly the 
section  on  the  Trusteeship  Council,  which  paved  the 
way for a number of States to become full Members of 
the Organization.
a  robust  and  transparent  system  of  Government  and 
sound financial institutions that have helped us ride out 
the worst effects of the global financial crisis. That was 
despite the significant economic and social challenges 
we  faced  after  the  destructive  earthquake  that  struck 
Christchurch, our second largest city, in 2011.
New Zealand has come a long way since the Charter 
was adopted. Then, we were emerging from our status 
as a dominion of the United Kingdom. Today we proudly 
assert ourselves as a small but independent and diverse 
country that has a wide network of friends and trading 
relationships  in  all  the  major  regions  and  markets  of 
the world. We value our traditional relationships with 
Australia  and  the  Pacific,  and  in  Europe  and  North 
America as we build new links with partners in Asia, 
the rest of the Americas and the Caribbean, and Africa.
Building  and  sustaining  political  and  commercial 
links across the regions of the world is no small matter 
for a country like New Zealand. We are surrounded by 
the Pacific Ocean and located over three hours’ flying 
time from our nearest neighbour, Australia, in one of 
the  least  populated  parts  of  the  world.  We  share  with 
our Pacific island neighbours the challenges of distance 
and  isolation,  and  of  having  to  hold  our  own  against 
much  larger  countries  whose  economies  of  scale 
and  proximity  to  markets  give  them  a  considerable 
competitive  advantage.  These  factors  have  reinforced 
New Zealand’s approach to the United Nations and to 
the other international organizations that have shaped 
the post-Second World War environment.
in 
We  have  a  strong  preference  for  a  rules-based, 
multilateralist  approach,  whether 
the  United 
Nations,  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  or  the 
World  Bank.  We  know  that  rules  and  standards  set 
internationally  provide  us  the  greatest  certainty  and 
the greatest protection. We draw strength from global 
agreements  and  from  the  collective  commitment  they 
represent.
That  is  why  we  attach  such  importance  to  the 
completion  of  the  Doha  Round.  While  New  Zealand 
continues  to  actively  negotiate  bilateral  and  regional 
trade  agreements,  we  acknowledge  that  free  trade 
agreements often leave least developed countries on the 
sidelines. The benefit of the WTO, as with the United 
Nations, is that the rules negotiated there apply across 
the globe, irrespective of a country’s size or wealth.
Our preference for international rules reflects New 
Zealand’s  national  approach  to  governance.  We  have 
As  we  work  to  restore  the  built  environment  in 
Christchurch,  New  Zealanders  are  also  conscious 
of  our  dependence  on  and  our  responsibility  towards 
the  natural  environment.  In  policy  terms,  climate 
change  has  been  a  challenge  for  New  Zealand  and 
for  the  international  community  more  broadly,  but 
New Zealanders know we must play our part, and we 
have  taken  action.  We  have  introduced  an  extensive 
emissions-trading  scheme.  We  are  investing  in  the 
Global Research Alliance to find new ways to manage 
agricultural greenhouse gases, and we have committed 
to reducing emissions to 5 per cent below 1990 levels 
by 2020.
We  made  that  commitment  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
rather  than  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  We  did  that  because, 
while the Kyoto Protocol once seemed to provide a path 
forward, things have changed. The Protocol now covers 
only a small percentage of global emissions. We need a 
single legal framework that commits all major emitters. 
While climate change is an important issue, it pales 
in comparison to the problems faced by many Member 
States. One of the most intractable is that of Israel and 
Palestine.  As  long  as  that  problem  is  left  unresolved, 
there can be no assured peace in the Middle East and no 
security for the wider region. There can be no resolution 
without the Israeli and Palestinian peoples both being 
assured  of  viable  homelands  within  secure  borders. 
New  Zealand  pays  tribute  to  the  tenacity  of  United 
States Secretary of State Kerry and to the courage of 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  in 
agreeing to resume the Middle East peace process.
In our own region, we have celebrated the successful 
conclusion of the United Nations Mission in Timor-Leste 
and the transition of the Regional Assistance Mission 
to the Solomon Islands from a military to a police-led 
operation.  We  look  forward  with  intense  interest  and 
cautious  hope  to  the  reinstatement  of  democracy  in 
Fiji. We acknowledge the positive developments there, 
including with regard to election preparations and voter 
registration.  The  countries  of  the  Pacific,  including 
New  Zealand,  want  and  need  Fiji  to  be  successful, 
democratic and well-governed.
8/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Earlier this year, New Zealand withdrew the bulk 
of its forces from Afghanistan, following the closure of 
the New Zealand-led provincial reconstruction team in 
Bamian province, which provided security and helped 
bring  about  a  significant  improvement  in  governance 
and development. Schools and hospitals were rebuilt and 
health  centres  re-opened.  Mortality  rates  for  children 
under 5 were halved. Maternal deaths are now a quarter 
of  the  Taliban-era  levels.  Girls  now  make  up  half  the 
number of primary-school-age children. New Zealand 
expertise also helped substantially improve agricultural 
yields through the implementation of modern farming 
techniques.  We  are  building  the  largest  solar  energy 
system  in  Afghanistan,  which  will  bring  a  renewable 
source of electricity to much of Bamian township. That 
was a big commitment by a small country situated far 
away.  It  also  came  at  a  considerable  cost:  10  of  our 
servicemen  and women  lost  their  lives  while  on  duty 
there.  Even  so,  we  are  proud  of  what  we  achieved  in 
partnership  with  the  people  of  Bamian  and  hope  that 
those gains can be sustained in the years ahead.
In Africa we see a continent where many countries 
have faced real challenges. However, as the President of 
Nigeria reminded us earlier this week (see A/68/PV.5), 
the  new  story  of  Africa  is  the  growing  number  of 
countries  in  the  region  that  are  enjoying  the  benefits 
of  good  governance,  sound  economic  growth  and 
development,  driving  positive  change  throughout  the 
continent. All of that is good news for Africa and for 
the  world.  New  Zealand  will  do  what  it  can  to  help 
with  targeted  assistance  in  areas  where  we  have  real 
expertise to offer, namely, in the fields of agriculture, 
renewable energy and good governance. New Zealand 
also  recognizes  and  supports  the  critical  roles  of  the 
African  Union  and  Africa’s  subregional  bodies  in 
ensuring Africa’s security and future prosperity.
New Zealand recognizes the importance to Africa, 
the Caribbean and our own region of the Arms Trade 
Treaty,  adopted  in  April  and  signed  by  New  Zealand 
and many others on 3 June The Treaty should curb the 
flows of small arms and other weapons, especially to 
conflict regions, and help arrest the deaths and human 
misery that they cause.
I  want  to  also  applaud  the  progress  made  in 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
while  at  the  same  time  acknowledging  the  fact  that 
much work remains to be done. We now need to work 
together on a post-2015 development agenda focused on 
creating economic opportunities and the eradication of 
poverty.
Many  of  the  same  issues  will  be  addressed  at 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  which  Samoa  is  to  host  in  2014. 
New Zealand is pleased to be a major supporter of that 
important  United  Nations  effort  and,  with  the  rest  of 
the  Pacific,  looks  forward  to  welcoming  the  world  to 
our region.
We need to remind ourselves that sound governance 
arrangements  and  transparency  of  process  are  also 
vital virtues for international organizations, including 
the  United  Nations.  By  any  objective  assessment,  the 
Organization has not been equipped with the structures 
and rules it needs to operate as it should. Yet there has 
been  deep  resistance  to  efforts  to  make  things  better. 
That needs to change. The rationale for United Nations 
reform is clear. Membership has quadrupled since 1945, 
yet over the same period its key organs — particularly 
the Security Council — have become hostage to their 
own traditions and to the interests of the most powerful. 
From the 1950s to the 1990s, we could blame the 
Cold War when the Security Council did not act. That 
does not wash today. The problems are more systemic 
and relate both to the composition and the formal and 
informal processes of the Council. We now seem to have 
a  practice  whereby  the  permanent  members  not  only 
can block Council actions through the use of the veto, 
but also appear to have privileged access to information 
and  can  stop  the  Council  from  meeting  if  it  does  not 
suit their collective purposes. Such behaviour damages 
the reputation and credibility of the wider Organization 
and must be challenged. Such issues are not necessarily 
matters of Charter reform, which we know is difficult, 
but  have  to  do  with  the  effective  functioning  of  the 
Organization — an issue in which we all have a stake.
New Zealand is not advocating revolution, but we 
are asserting that the Council can and must do better in 
the way it conducts its business. That is the approach 
New Zealand will bring to the Security Council if we 
are  elected  next  October.  If  successful,  it  will  be  21 
years since New Zealand last served on the Council — a 
long time ago, but not so long that we have forgotten the 
lessons learned during our last term. At the top of that 
list is the imperative that members have to be engaged; 
they  must  listen  to  the  concerns  of  others  and  have  a 
view  and  a  voice  if  they  are  to  be  relevant.  There  is 
no point in joining the Council simply to make up the 
13-48668
9/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
numbers.  Sometimes  there  is  a  need  to  speak  up  and 
shine a light on what is going on, or not going on, even 
when that may be inconvenient to others. That applies 
whether  the  issue  was  Rwanda,  Somalia,  Yemen  or 
Yugoslavia in 1993-94, or is the Democratic Republic 
of Congo, the Sudan or Syria in 2013 to 2014.
My  hope  is  that  when  Member  States  make  their 
decision on whom to vote for in October 2014, they will 
look at New Zealand’s record and know that we will be 
a credible, positive influence on the Security Council 
and a voice for the interests of the wider Organization.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  New  Zealand  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Community 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  (CELAC), 
over which Cuba currently has the honour to preside. I 
reiterate our satisfaction at the election of Ambassador 
John Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  also 
reiterate our willingness to cooperate with him for the 
success of this session. It is an honour for CELAC to 
see  a  representative  from  one  of  its  member  States, 
in  particular  a  Caribbean  nation,  preside  over  this 
preeminent body of the United Nations.
As 
Over  the  coming  weeks,  I  will  also  speak  to  the 
Assembly  about  the  heroic  struggles  of  Cuba,  its 
resistance  and  triumphs,  the  immense  efforts  of  its 
people,  its  fidelity  to  principles,  its  revolutionary 
transformations and the perfection of Cuban socialism.
the  first  genuinely  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean organization that includes all of the countries 
in  the  region,  CELAC  was  founded  with  the  purpose 
of  making  progress  in  the  political,  economic,  social 
and cultural unity and integration of our America, so 
as to reclaim the dream of our liberators of a nation of 
republics that, with its almost 600 million inhabitants, 
its  resources  and  its  enormous  human  and  economic 
potential, can decide autonomously its own destiny.
The  countries  of  our  region  share  the  conviction 
that  the  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  unity 
and  integration  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
constitute  not  only  a  fundamental  aspiration  of  our 
peoples,  but  also  a  prerequisite  for  us  to  successfully 
tackle  the  challenges  we  face  as  a  region.  However, 
everything that has been achieved so far and the path 
CELAC has chosen underscore the need for our region 
to  have  a  space  of  its  own  to  consolidate  and  project 
the Latin American and Caribbean identity based on its 
shared principles and values and on the ideals of unity 
and democracy for our peoples. It should also reaffirm 
our commitment to building a more just, equitable and 
harmonious  international  order  based  on  respect  for 
international law and the principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations, and to upholding the sovereignty and 
the right of each State to build its own political system, 
free  from  threat,  aggression  or  unilateral  coercive 
measures  and  in  an  environment  of  peace,  stability, 
justice, democracy and respect for human rights.
Our  Community  is  based  on  unrestricted  respect 
for international law, the peaceful settlement of disputes 
and the prohibition of the use and threat of use of force; 
on respect for the self-determination, sovereignty and 
territorial integrity of States and on non-interference in 
their internal affairs; on the protection and promotion 
of all human rights, the rule of law, at both the national 
and the international levels, and democracy; and on our 
aim to work together for collective prosperity so as to 
eradicate  discrimination,  inequality,  marginalization, 
human rights violations and transgressions of the rule 
of law.
We 
to 
commitment 
international  peace  and  security.  We  commit 
to 
strengthening  the  climate  of  peace  that  prevails  in 
Latin America and the Caribbean and to consolidating 
a  zone  of  peace  that  encompasses  our  region  as  a 
whole, whereby disputes between nations are resolved 
peaceably  through  dialogue  and  negotiation  or  other 
means, in perfect harmony with international law.
reaffirm  our 
region’s 
At  the  recent  High-level  Meeting  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament  (A/68/PV.11),  CELAC  reiterated 
its 
profound  concern  at  the  threat  posed  to  humankind 
by  the  continued  existence  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
their possible use or threat of use, and the urgent need 
to  make  progress  towards  the  priority  objective  of 
nuclear disarmament and achieve the total and absolute 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  In  addition,  CELAC 
member  countries  presented  for  the  first  time  a  joint 
10/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
initiative to the Human Rights Council on the right to 
peace, which we hope will lead to a declaration on that 
right for adoption by the General Assembly.
CELAC has expressed its support in the strongest 
terms  for  the  legitimate  rights  of  Argentina  in  the 
dispute  over  the  sovereignty  of  the  Malvinas  Islands. 
The continuing position of our region is that the United 
Kingdom  should  agree  to  reopen  negotiations  with  a 
view  to  finding  a  peaceful  and  definitive  solution  to 
that dispute as soon as possible.
Our  Community  reiterates  its  support  for  the 
dialogue  under  way  between  the  Government  of 
Colombia  and  the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias 
de Colombia, which seeks to end the internal conflict 
that  has  affected  the  political,  social  and  economic 
development of that sister nation for more than 50 years. 
We hope that that initiative will succeed in reaching an 
agreement in the interests of the Colombian people.
We  would  also  like  to  underscore  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  character  of  Puerto  Rico 
and, by taking note of the resolutions on Puerto Rico 
adopted  by  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee, to emphasize that that issue is a matter of 
interest to CELAC.
We reiterate our absolute condemnation of terrorism 
and  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  fighting  it  in  all  its 
forms and manifestations, in keeping with the United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  However, 
at the same time, we strongly reject the unilateral and 
illegitimate assessments, lists and certifications made 
by  some  developed  countries  that  affect  countries  of 
our  region,  in  particular  those  referring  to  terrorism, 
drug  trafficking,  human  trafficking  and  other  similar 
phenomena.
In  recent  days,  as  the  situation  in  Syria  has 
deteriorated,  CELAC  has  reiterated  its  vocation  for 
peace and its observance of the principles enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations and in international 
law,  including  international  humanitarian  law.  It  has 
urged  the  creation  of  the  conditions  necessary  for 
moving  towards  a  negotiated  political  solution  to 
the  Syrian  conflict,  which  has  claimed  the  lives  of 
thousands of innocent people.
is  working 
to 
Similarly,  CELAC 
identify 
independent concepts and mechanisms for cooperation, 
urging  the  international  community  to  continue  to 
contribute 
the  reconstruction  and  sustainable 
development  of  our  sister  Republic  of  Haiti,  in 
to 
accordance with the fundamental priorities and needs 
defined by the Haitian Government and in full respect 
for its authority and sovereignty and the principles of 
non-interference in the internal affairs of countries.
We  have  defended  the  sovereignty  of  the  region, 
including 
that  over  our  own  natural  resources, 
and  we  have  expressed  our  solidarity  with  States 
members  of  CELAC  in  the  face  of  harmful  acts  that 
violate international law, such as that of 2 July, which 
threatened the dignity and rights of the President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, 
as  he  returned  to  La  Paz  from  a  visit  to  a  number  of 
European countries. 
Taking  into  account  the  diverse  processes  that 
have  shaped  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  identity, 
the  Community  has  also  emphasized  its  intention  to 
become a space that protects the rights to live, thrive 
and  coexist  enjoyed  by  all  cultures,  races  and  ethnic 
groups of the region, as well as the multicultural nature 
of our peoples and the plurinational character of some 
of our countries, especially among native communities 
that  are  promoting  and  recreating  their  historical 
memory, ancestral knowledge and their experience.
Almost seven months after he passed away, CELAC 
today pays a well-deserved tribute to one of its founding 
members, President Hugo Chávez Frías, who presided 
over the founding summit of the Community with his 
vision  and  mastery.  Similarly,  CELAC  expressed  its 
satisfaction  over  the  election  of  Pope  Francis  as  the 
first High Pontiff of the Catholic Church from the Latin 
American and Caribbean region.
The  global  espionage  against  CELAC  member 
countries violates human rights, the right to privacy, the 
right of citizens to be informed, and the principles of 
State sovereignty and international law. It has become 
a source of concern, and we have taken due note of the 
statements made in various forums by Heads of States 
and Government and other leaders of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  countries  who  have  condemned  and 
rejected the use of such practices.
The  member  States  of  CELAC  are  proud  of  their 
shared work in consolidating our regional sovereignty so 
that the Latin America and Caribbean region can occupy 
its  rightful  place  in  the  world  and  renounce  its  status 
as the most inequal region on Earth. In pursuing these 
objectives, we have decided to offer the most vulnerable 
countries of the region our cooperation and solidarity 
and  to  draw  attention  to  the  special  vulnerabilities 
13-48668
11/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
of  the  countries  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  given 
their  status  as  small  island  developing  States,  which 
limits  their  efforts  towards  sustainable  development, 
especially in light of the significant impact of natural 
disasters and the negative effects of climate change.
the  United  Nations  system,  and 
With  regard  to  the  indispensable  reform  of  the 
international  system,  we  have  renewed  our  countries’ 
commitment  to  multilateralism,  the  comprehensive 
reform  of 
the 
democratization  of 
international  decision-making 
forums, in particular the Security Council. We shall act 
accordingly on issues of equal importance, among them 
the process of formulating the post-2015 development 
agenda, which is the theme of this general debate and 
to  which  all  CELAC  member  countries  attach  great 
importance.
The  members  of  CELAC  know  that  there  can  be 
no  lasting  peace  without  development  and  without 
combating  poverty,  hunger  and  inequality.  We  are 
aware  of  the  challenges  that  the  current  international 
economic and financial crisis poses to the future of our 
region and our legitimate aspirations to social inclusion, 
equitable  growth  with  sustainable  development,  and 
integration.  We  therefore  emphasize  the  importance 
for  the  post-2015  development  agenda  to  consist  of 
voluntary,  universal,  clear  and  quantifiable  goals 
that can be adapted to distinct national realities, with 
the  purpose  of  eradicating  poverty  and  promoting 
sustainable  development.  This  new  framework  should 
be  inclusive  and  transparent  on  official  development 
assistance,  prompt  the  developed  countries  to  honour 
their  commitments,  and  encourage  South-South  and 
triangular cooperation on cross-cutting issues through 
the participation of all sectors of society.
With  regard  to  climate  change,  we  welcome  the 
formal  adoption  of  the  second  phase  of  commitments 
under  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  despite  a  lack  of  political 
will on the part of a number of developed nations that 
vetoed agreements on new, additional and predictable 
resources and on mechanisms for the effective transfer 
of  technologies  to  developing  countries.  We  will 
continue to work together to cope with this scourge that 
affects humankind as a whole today.
There  are  many  difficulties,  but  the  important 
thing  is  that  the  countries  of  Latin  American  and  the 
Caribbean  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  time 
has come for the region, as José Martí said, to walk in 
close ranks, like silver in the roots of the Andes. That is 
why we created CELAC.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ramtane Lamamra, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Democratic Republic of 
Algeria. 
Mr. Lamamra (Algeria) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like first of all to warmly congratulate Mr. John Ashe, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session, and his predecessor Mr. Vuk Jeremić on their 
excellent  work.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  our 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  steady 
enhancement  of  the  role  and  status  of  the  United 
Nations under his leadership. 
The  designation  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  as  the  central  theme  not  only  of  this  general 
debate but also for this entire session is a timely reminder 
of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  peace 
and  prosperity  throughout  the  world,  for  the  benefit 
of  all  humankind.  Indeed,  more  than  ever  before,  we 
need the visionary role of the United Nations in order 
to face up to the ills besetting humankind. The growing 
challenges arising from our increased interdependence 
are  exacerbated  by  a  multidimensional  crisis  that 
adversely  affects  our  economies  and  governance  and 
has disastrous social and humanitarian consequences. 
The only worthy response to the upheaval and dangers 
of our day is a determined quest for peace, justice and 
solidarity, in order to build with confidence that better 
future that we must bequeath to future generations.
Consideration  of  the  post-2015  agenda  warrants 
a  serious  relaunching  of  the  debate  on  development 
issues,  particularly  in  terms  of  the  elimination  of 
poverty,  a  phenomenon  that  continues  not  only  to 
affect the dignity of millions of human beings but also 
to  threaten  their  lives.  The  international  community 
should be primarily concerned at the lack of significant 
progress in its fight against poverty. 
Overcoming  poverty  is  a  long-standing  endeavour 
that  requires  appropriate  public  policies  coupled  with 
effective 
international  cooperation  and  consistent 
productive  flows  of  investment,  as  well  as  greater 
complementarity  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions,  with  a  view  to  exploiting 
synergies 
the  peace-security-
development triad. That means that new objectives for 
2030  must  be  part  of  a  global  integral  approach  that 
reflects the disparities among regions, an improvement 
of  the  balance  between  urban  and  rural  development, 
the  strengthening  of  the  capacities  of  poor  people, 
good governance, the fight against corruption and the 
the  context  of 
in 
12/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
protection of the environment. In fact, it is a question 
of  reaching  an  ambitious  global  agreement  for  the 
promotion  of  sustainable  development  containing 
commitments  stemming  from  the  principle  of  shared 
but  differentiated  responsibility,  in  particular  for  the 
mobilization  of  the  financing  needed  for  capacity-
building and the transfer of know-how and technology.
Under  its  2010-2014  five-year  plan,  Algeria  is 
implementing a human development strategy that sets 
forth  ambitious  policies  to  promote  social  justice  and 
balanced  regional  preparations,  within  a  framework 
of  strict  resource  management,  where  the  education, 
health, housing and infrastructure sectors continue to 
be  given  priority,  backed  by  investment  in  economic 
growth. Those extensive efforts are naturally supported 
at the international level by multifaceted assistance to 
countries  affected  by  crises  and  natural  disasters  and 
by the effective integration of debt relief for the poorest 
countries in Africa and other parts of the world.
At  the  same  time,  Algeria  is  projecting  its  own 
development in the context of the historic coherence of 
the great Arab Maghreb Union project that the peoples 
of the region aspire to profoundly. That overall initiative 
came from the agenda of the President of the Republic, 
Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, and is aimed at making all 
Algerian men and women free from fear and need.
The celebration this year of the fiftieth anniversary 
of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity-African  Union 
under  the  theme  of  “African  Renaissance”  is  an 
important  milestone  in  the  rise  of  our  continent  on 
the  stage  of  history,  giving  us  grounds  for  hope  and 
ambition, as well as promises of African solutions for 
the problems of Africa, with the assistance of the rest 
of the international community. Algeria is participating 
in  that  shared  destiny  of  the  African  peoples,  and 
we  welcome  and  are  gratified  by  the  progress  made 
towards the recovery and economic development of the 
continent and the considerable rates of growth that have 
been recorded. We are also gratified at Africa’s steady 
progress towards conflict prevention and settlement. 
We  also  welcome  the  achievements  of  good 
governance,  human  rights  and  pluralist  democracy. 
Algeria is particularly delighted at the liberation of the 
regions in the north of Mali from the claws of terrorist 
and  criminal  groups  as  well  as  the  restoration  of  the 
constitutional  order  in  this  fraternal  country  with  the 
clear success of the presidential elections.
Algeria, which remains the target of international 
terrorism  —  as  we  were  reminded  by  the  violent 
terrorist  attack  carried  out  against  the  Tiguentourine 
gas complex early this year — is making an effective 
contribution  to  the  joint  efforts  to  promote  collective 
security in the Sahelo-Saharan region as well as in the 
rest of Africa and beyond. Whether it is a question of 
Somalia, Darfur, relations between the Sudan and South 
Sudan,  the  Great  Lakes  region,  the  Central  African 
Republic or efforts to restore constitutional order in a 
number of brotherly countries, Algeria is harmoniously 
blending its voice and efforts with those of the African 
Union.
Algeria,  which  is  resolutely  committed  to  the 
right  of  peoples  to  self-determination,  supports  the 
intensification of the efforts of the Personal Envoy of the 
Secretary-General for Western Sahara, Mr. Christopher 
Ross, to prevail on the two parties to the conflict — the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  the  Polisario  Front  —  to 
agree in negotiations on the lifting of all obstacles, so 
that the people of Western Sahara can freely determine 
their own future. 
Algeria 
is  naturally  supportive  of 
the  Arab 
peoples, who are experiencing difficult transitions and 
are  confronting  multiple  challenges  in  a  particularly 
delicate  phase  of  democratic  and  socioeconomic 
transformation.  We  encourage 
the  promotion  of 
political  solutions  to  governance  crises  as  well  as  the 
management by consensus of these critical transitional 
periods. Clearly, military solutions are neither possible 
nor  desirable  in  the  context  of  the  polarization  of 
societies and the exacerbation of partisan interests and 
dissent.
Algeria reaffirms its rejection of the threat or use 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  In  that  regard,  we 
categorically condemn the use of chemical weapons in 
the Syrian conflict, regardless of who the perpetrators 
were or the circumstances. In welcoming the initiative 
of  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  Russian-American 
agreement  as  well  as  the  adherence  of  Syria  to  the 
Chemical  Weapons  Convention,  Algeria  calls  for  the 
creation of political momentum towards the holding of 
the Geneva II conference and the attainment of a political 
solution  among  the  parties  in  Syria.  We  reiterate  our 
encouragement  and  support  for  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi 
as he leads those praiseworthy peace efforts.
In a Middle East mired in dangers and crises, a just 
settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine  remains  at  the 
13-48668
13/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
heart of any serious effort to stabilize the region. While 
welcoming the efforts of the United States, which led 
to a resumption of negotiations, Algeria expresses the 
hope that the international community can redouble its 
efforts for the rapid establishment of an internationally 
recognized Palestinian State within the borders of June 
1967, with Al-Quds as its capital.
The  legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations  must  be 
strengthened and its role enhanced, and to that end its 
reform must not be unduly delayed. We must ensure that 
the General Assembly remains participatory in nature 
and must increase the economic, social, humanitarian 
and  environmental  functions  of  the  programmes, 
entities  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
We  must  also  agree  on  a  democratic  reform  of  the 
Security Council that covers its working methods and 
its  composition  and  ensures  equitable  representation, 
taking  into  particular  account  the  African  States’ 
Ezulwini Consensus. 
The  United  Nations  must  be  heeded  when,  from 
within  the  democratic  framework  of  the  General 
Assembly, it issues statements of strong positions that 
reflect the universal conscience, whether it is a question 
of  strengthening 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  protecting  civilians  or  specific 
situations,  such  as  the  long  overdue  lifting  of  the 
economic blockade that has been imposed on Cuba for 
decades now and the current one imposed on the Gaza 
Strip. The will of the international community that is so 
often reiterated here must prevail.
the  foundations  of 
Algeria  is  working  within  the  organizations  and 
groups to which it belongs and with its other partners 
towards  the  elimination  of  the  many  obstacles  to 
building peaceful, well-balanced and just international 
relations.  We  are  nurturing  the  virtues  of  dialogue, 
and we place our hopes in the Alliance of Civilization 
and mutual respect among religions. Algeria is deeply 
dedicated  to  the  heritage  of  the  values  shared  by  all 
humankind,  beginning  with  the  sacred  nature,  value 
and  dignity  of  human  beings  and  the  promotion  and 
protection of all human rights. 
It  is  this  commitment  that  inspires  Algeria’s 
candidature  for  a  seat  on  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for the 2014-2016 period. This year marks the twentieth 
anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and Programme 
of  Action,  and  Algeria,  moved  by  a  high  sense  of 
responsibility, would like to dedicate itself to improving 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Council,  strengthening  the 
universal  and  interdependent  nature  of  human  rights 
and  mobilizing  the  international  community  in  this 
lofty collective endeavour.
As a member of the Council, Algeria will share its 
experience in human rights and in the rights of peoples. 
We  will  endeavour  to  improve  our  own  performance 
by,  inter  alia,  adapting  our  national  legislation  and 
harmonizing it with the relevant international treaties 
and promoting the inclusion of all segments of society, 
including women, who now comprise 31 per cent of the 
deputies elected to the People’s National Assembly last 
year. All of these factors make Algeria a good candidate 
for  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  have  won  it  the 
support of the League of Arab States, the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation and the African Union.
Almost 40 years ago, in 1974, President Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika, who was at that time Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Algeria  and  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its twenty-ninth session, made significant 
history here by putting an end to the usurpation of the 
people of South Africa’s representation by the apartheid 
regime and by welcoming to this Hall for the first time 
the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  thus  opening 
up  two  significant  paths  towards  peace.  Since  then, 
prodigious advances in science and technology, which 
have  increased  the  power  of  humankind  over  nature, 
and  changes  in  the  very  fabric  of  the  international 
community have only increased the expectations of our 
peoples, for whom the United Nations remains the best 
refuge. May God inspire us to work in the best interests 
of our countries and our peoples. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Samura M.W. Kamara, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Mr.  Kamara  (Sierra  Leone):  I  bring  you  sincere 
greetings  and  very  best  wishes  from  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Sierra Leone. President Koroma regrets that he is unable 
to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session due to unavoidable 
circumstances.  He  has,  however,  instructed  me,  as 
his  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation,  to  deliver  to  the  Assembly  this  message 
of goodwill:
“I  congratulate  Ambassador  Ashe  most 
warmly on his election to direct the affairs of the 
Assembly  during  this  session  and  assure  him  of 
my  country’s  support  and  cooperation  during  his 
14/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
tenure. Let me avail myself of this opportunity to 
also  express  the  appreciation  of  my  delegation  to 
his predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić of Serbia, for his 
able leadership in directing the work of the General 
Assembly during the past session. I wish him well 
in  his  future  endeavours.  Let  me  also  express 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his constructive and fruitful 
leadership  of  the  Organization.  Sierra  Leone  will 
continue to support the progressive implementation 
of his five-year Global Action Agenda.
“Over  the  past  two  decades,  global  peace, 
security  and  the  economic  environment  have 
evidently been radically transformed, to the point 
where neither the problems nor their solutions are 
simple.  The  international  security  situation  has 
become more complex. Regional hotspot issues keep 
flaring up, and turbulence continues in many parts 
of the world, in particular Asia and Africa. Human 
trafficking,  in  addition  to  other  non-traditional 
security  issues  such  as  climate  change,  nuclear 
safety,  energy,  food  and  maritime  security  and 
financing  for  development  are  becoming  more 
significant.
“The use of chemical weapons in conflict poses 
a renewed global security threat. There is therefore 
a  need  for  increased  multilateral  and  collective 
engagement  and  responses 
those  complex 
challenges.
to 
“As  we  all  are  aware,  the  target  date  for 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  is  only  two  years  away.  While  we 
take  stock  of  what  have  been  achieved  and  the 
challenges that continue to confront us, we should, 
in keeping with the principles set out in the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
outcome document, entitled ‘The future we want’ 
(resolution 66/288, annex), embark upon designing 
a post-2015 development goals agenda in which the 
specific  needs  and  challenges  of  every  Member 
States are recognized. There is no doubt that failure 
to  capture  those  specific  needs  and  commitments 
would  compromise  the  credibility  of  such  an 
agenda.
“We also note that important progress has been 
made  in  many  areas,  such  as  reducing  poverty 
globally, improving access to primary education for 
all children, reducing child and maternal mortality, 
increasing  access  to  HIV  treatment  and  reducing 
slum  populations,  to  name  a  few.  However,  this 
has not been uniform, as inequalities among many 
populations are on the rise, particularly in southern 
Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, where food insecurity 
and malnutrition are still prevalent. While access to 
health and education may be expanding for us, the 
quality of those services in many regions remains a 
serious challenge.
responsibilities  encompassing 
“That  is  why  the  theme  of  this  session,  ‘The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage’, 
is  timely  and  appropriate.  We  are  moving  into 
the  phase  of  mapping  out  another  development 
framework that is expected to formulate universal 
goals  and 
the 
economic,  social  and  environmental  spheres.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  should  have  at  its 
core  the  urgent  need  to  address  the  causes  and 
consequences  of  conflict,  violence  and  disasters. 
These  are  universal  issues  of  great  concern  to 
the  global  community.  Resolving  and  preventing 
conflict  and  violence,  creating  jobs,  providing 
further  incentives  for  foreign  direct  investment, 
broadening  human  and 
resources, 
ensuring  gender  equality  and  promoting  human 
rights and the rule of law are not only fundamental 
to human progress; they are integral to sustainable 
development.
financial 
“Sierra  Leone  welcomes 
the  adoption  of 
the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  earlier  this  year.  This 
is  a  significant  and  historic  achievement  in  our 
collective  efforts  in  pursuit  of  a  safer  and  more 
secure  world.  We  therefore  hope  that  the  illegal 
transfer  of  conventional  weapons  to  the  wrong 
hands  —  a  major  source  of  the  escalation  of 
conflicts  in  the  developing  world,  particularly 
in  Africa  —  can  now  be  largely  regulated  and 
minimized. 
“In  that  regard,  we  remain  committed  to 
supporting  international  instruments  aimed  at 
establishing peace and security in the world and an 
economic order that is beneficial to the rich and the 
poor, the weak and the strong, as well as to nations 
big and small.
“In recent years, and despite being under post-
conflict  rebuilding,  Sierra  Leone’s  contribution 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts 
to 
demonstrates  our  strong  commitment 
the 
purpose and principles of global peace and stability. 
We  stand  ready  to  increase  our  profile  in  the 
to 
13-48668
15/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
peacekeeping landscape so as to ensure the success 
of  peacekeeping  operations.  To  that  end,  we  will 
continue  to  actively  engage  in  all  new  initiatives 
for  reform  of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.
towards 
to  provide,  especially 
“We  applaud  and  acknowledge  the  human 
resources  and  financial  support  that  the  United 
Nations  family  and  other  development  partners 
continue 
the 
successful  conduct  of  our  17  November  2012 
presidential,  parliamentary  and  local  government 
elections,  all  of  which  were  held  in  one  day,  for 
the  very  first  time.  Those  elections  were  widely 
considered  to  be  a  critical  benchmark  for  us, 
signalling  our  preparedness  to  move  into  a  more 
developmental  phase  of  peacebuilding.  It  should 
come as little or no surprise that they were widely 
acclaimed to be peaceful, free, fair and transparent 
by  the  international  community.  Their  successful 
conduct  clearly  demonstrates  the  level  that  Sierra 
Leone’s  democratic  process  has  attained,  an 
experience  we  are  willing  to  share  with  other 
countries in our subregion and beyond.
in 
“Today,  Sierra  Leone  is  on  the  threshold 
of  transformation  in  its  engagement  with  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  as  well  as 
its 
socioeconomic development. With support from the 
Commission and the Peacebuilding Support Office 
as well as other international and local development 
partners,  Sierra  Leone  continues 
to  make 
significant gains in the areas of good governance, 
human rights, gender equality and the fight against 
corruption  and  transnational  organized  crime.  A 
number of international treaties have been ratified 
and  national  legislations  enacted  to  address  these 
challenges, which have the potential to undermine 
ongoing  peacebuilding  and  peace-consolidation 
efforts.
“Sierra  Leone’s  vision  for  transformative  and 
inclusive socioeconomic development was initially 
encapsulated 
in  my  Government’s  poverty-
reduction  strategy,  articulated  in  the  ‘Agenda  for 
Change’  that  we  rolled  out  in  my  first  term  of 
office. These have been encouraging achievements 
and with residual challenges as well. In my current, 
second  term,  we  are  poised  to  build  on  those 
successes with renewed determination. 
“With  a  sustained  commitment  to  provide 
improved  standards  of  living  for  our  people  and 
to  raise  the  country  to  middle-income  status,  we 
have  rolled  those  residual  challenges  over  to  our 
successor  development  programme,  the  ‘Agenda 
for Prosperity’, which I launched in July this year. 
This  is  Sierra  Leone’s  road  map  to  our  post-2015 
development agenda. It aims to build a sustainable 
future  for  all  Sierra  Leoneans,  requiring  sound 
macroeconomic management and fiscal policies for 
a society with strong institutions to facilitate good 
governance,  the  social,  economic  and  political 
empowerment  of  women  and  young  people,  the 
required  social  support  for  the  disadvantaged, 
increased  transparency  and  accountability,  and 
justice for all.
“In taking up this huge challenge, Sierra Leone 
will continue to welcome the strong partnership that 
exists with the various United Nations agencies and 
other  international  development  partners  for  the 
achievement of a well-planned, seamless transition 
to  a  more  developmental  phase  of  peacebuilding 
and  for  scaling  up  support  to  Sierra  Leone’s 
political  and  economic  priorities,  as  outlined  in 
our ‘Agenda for Prosperity’. Sierra Leone, a nation 
with good credentials as a post-conflict country, is 
a  deserving  candidate  for  continued  international 
support.
“Sierra Leone continues to uphold its national 
heritage  of  interreligious  tolerance  and  peaceful 
coexistence, as well as the principle of respect for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  In  that 
regard,  we  remain  focused  on,  and  committed  to, 
our  reporting  obligations  to  international  treaty 
bodies. 
“In  line  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Disability Act 2011, we have established a National 
Commission for Persons with Disability. The current 
and  first  Chairman  and  Chief  Commissioner  is  a 
person with impaired vision. We have also enacted 
the Sexual Offences Act 2012 to address the specific 
issue of sexual violence against women and girls. 
Sierra Leone will continue to collaborate with the 
United  Nations  and  other  interested  partners  in 
promoting  the  enactment  of  the  Gender  Equality 
Bill so as to enhance women’s participation in the 
decision-making process.
“We  commend  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  partners  for  the  work 
of  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone,  whereby 
it  has  made  meaningful  contributions  to  the 
16/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
international 
advancement of the rule of law at both the national 
and 
levels.  With  our  continued 
support, the Special Court is expected to complete 
its mandate by the end of this year.
“We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Optional 
Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights entered into force in May 
2013.  Sierra  Leone  pledges  its  continued  support 
to the work of the Human Rights Council and the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights as we strive together to maintain 
universally accepted standards of human rights and 
democratic governance.
“It  is  in  that  context  that  we  have  also 
embarked upon a constitutional review process to 
address major socioeconomic and political issues. 
A  constitutional  review  committee  has  been 
established with a broad spectrum of membership, 
drawn  from  all  political  parties,  civil  society, 
women,  youth,  disabled  persons  and  even  the 
diaspora. The process will be inclusive and guided 
by a critical analysis in a broad national debate, with 
the aim of strengthening democratic institutions and 
promoting national unity. We expect the committee 
to submit a draft review within two years.
“As  the  coordinator  of  the  African  Union 
committee of 10 Heads of State on Security Council 
reforms, let me once again emphasize the need for 
urgent reform of the Council. The role of the United 
Nations should be strengthened, not weakened. The 
need for equitable geographical representation, with 
all  the  privileges  of  membership  in  the  Security 
Council,  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Africa  will 
therefore continue to work closely with the relevant 
stakeholders and Member States, particularly other 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Council,  for  an 
early and decisive reform of that organ.
“Let  me 
therefore  reiterate 
that  Africa’s 
participation  in  the  ongoing  intergovernmental 
negotiations  is  firmly  rooted  in  our  steadfast 
commitment  to  the  African  common  position 
articulated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  Sirte 
Declaration on the reform of the United Nations.
“The  Millennium  Development  Goals  remain 
a very lofty agenda in the history of our collective 
efforts  for  global  socioeconomic  development, 
although their full achievement has been thwarted 
by  a  multitude  of  factors.  The  year  2015  is  a 
critical one for the United Nations as it marks the 
Organization’s seventieth anniversary. It is also the 
target date for the MDGs and the tenth year since 
the World Summit was held in 2005. 
“We  are  expected  to  agree  on  a  post-2015 
development  framework.  It  is  imperative  that 
we  follow  a  pragmatic  approach  with  renewed 
vigour  and  commitment  to  providing  our  people 
with  a  future  that  guarantees  justice,  peace  and 
security,  accountable  and  democratic  governance, 
a transparent and equitable distribution of wealth, 
a safe and sustainable environment and health and 
education for all. Those are all essential elements 
in  setting  the  stage  for  the  implementation  of  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
“Let me join the family of the United Nations 
in expressing our condolences and solidarity with 
the  people  of  Kenya,  Pakistan  and  Nigeria  for 
the  irreparable  loss  of  valuable  lives  during  the 
recent  terrorist  attacks.  Our  thoughts  and  prayers 
are  strongly  and  firmly  with  the  families  of  the 
deceased.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Laurent Kavakure, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Burundi.
Mr. Kavakure (Burundi) (spoke in French): On this 
special  occasion,  when  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  to 
various delegations that have come from the four corners 
of the world to participate in the General Assembly at 
its sixty-eighth session, I would like, on behalf of His 
Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Nkurunziza,  President  of  the 
Republic of Burundi, and on behalf of my delegation, to 
express our congratulations to His Excellency Mr. John 
Ashe on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
To  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  his  predecessor,  we  wish  to 
say how much his work as President at the sixty-seventh 
session was very much appreciated in my country, and 
we  take  this  opportunity  to  relay  to  him  our  sincere 
congratulations for having very ably presided over that 
session.
It  is  also  our  great  pleasure  to  congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  excellent 
achievements 
turbulent 
international sociopolitical and economic context. Our 
best wishes and our continued support will accompany 
him throughout his second term in office, so that he can 
in  a  difficult  and  often 
13-48668
17/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
continue with the same momentum the work started in 
all priority areas on the United Nations agenda and in 
particular, that of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), the central concern of the current session. 
It is for us an opportune moment to take the floor to 
address the Assembly to talk about the situation in my 
country, on the one hand, and to mention some current 
issues that are presently of concern to the international 
community, on the other hand.
With  regard  to  my  country,  my  statement  will 
focus  on  the  political  and  economic  situation  and  on 
our  progress  regarding  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  for  which  we  are  called  upon  to  establish  new 
benchmarks.
In the political area, we are preparing to hold general 
elections  in  2015.  As  we  have  always  said,  including 
during our previous elections, we have promised to the 
people of Burundi and the international community to 
hold transparent, free and peaceful elections. Burundi is 
seeking to set up a truth and reconciliation commission 
soon, as was provided for in the Arusha Agreement for 
Peace and Reconciliation, in order to shed light on the 
massive human rights violations after our independence 
and to create a more stable and democratic society.
With regard to socioeconomic concerns, in December 
2012  Burundi  adopted  a  strategic  policy  instrument 
entitled  “Vision  Burundi  2025”,  which  sets  out  what 
Burundi  will  look  like  in  2025.  Its  main  pillars  are 
the goals to promote strong leadership at all levels of 
the State apparatus, to provide good living conditions 
for  the  population,  to  rely  on  an  educated  population 
that  enjoys  good  health,  to  promote  accelerated  and 
double-digit  economic  growth  and  to  make  the  most 
of regional integration so as to increase and diversify 
the  economy  of  Burundi.  Other  goals  include  putting 
in  place  an  aggressive  demographic  policy  aimed  at 
limiting  the  population  growth  rate  to  2  per  cent  in 
2025 and gradually restoring social cohesion and giving 
pride of place back to the fundamental cultural values 
that have always characterized Burundian society. One 
could  also  cite  the  goals  of  setting  up  a  village  and 
urbanization  policy  aimed  at  significantly  increasing 
the urbanization rate to 40 per cent, as well as creating 
synergies among the various development stakeholders 
and  promoting  a  good  context  for  dialogue  and 
consultation with respect to planning for development 
financing and implementing Vision Burundi.
Along those same lines, Burundi has also adopted 
a  second  policy  instrument,  the  Strategic  Framework 
for  Growth  to  Combat  Poverty  2012-2016,  launched 
in  February  2012.  Its  goals  are  the  consolidation 
of  peace,  security  and  the  rule  of  law,  managing 
population  growth,  increasing  agricultural  production 
and marketing, improved efficiency in public spending, 
a  dynamic  and  efficient  private  sector,  a  sufficient 
increase  in  energy  production,  and  strengthening 
development capacity. 
is  aware, 
the  Assembly 
Since the central theme of this debate pertains to 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  it  is  appropriate 
for  my  delegation  to  review  Burundi’s  socioeconomic 
achievements.  As 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  the  promise  that 
we made to the poorest and most vulnerable people of 
the  world.  The  MDGs  have  managed  to  place  human 
beings at the heart of the development agenda. I should 
now like to turn to the status of the implementation of 
MDGs in my country, which I will review one by one.
With regard to MDG 1, on the eradication of extreme 
poverty,  we  have  seen  relatively  good  progress  since 
2006.  Even  so,  we  must  note  that,  although  generally 
the rate of poverty has steadily decreased from 81 per 
cent in 1998 and to 67 per cent in 2006, it is nonetheless 
unlikely that Burundi will reach its target.
With  respect  to  MDG  2,  achieving  universal 
primary  education,  many  improvements  have  been 
noted  in  terms  of  the  net  enrolment  rate  in  primary 
school  education  in  Burundi,  which  rose  from  52  per 
cent in 1990 to 96 per cent in 2010. That occurred as a 
result of policy measures, in particular the presidential 
measure  taken  in  2005  regarding  free  schooling,  and 
because  the  restoration  of  peace  has  enabled  even 
children  beyond  school  age  to  be  enrolled  in  school. 
It  is  therefore  possible  that  the  second  MDG  will  be 
achieved in 2015.
Concerning  MDG  3,  on  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women,  there  is  near  parity  of  girls 
and  boys  in  primary  school,  but  disparities  have 
increased in secondary school. In higher education, the 
ratio of girls to boys has improved. In State institutions, 
we have seen an increase in the number of women in 
Parliament, with 43 per cent in the National Assembly 
and  50  per  cent  in  the  Senate.  Those  figures  far 
exceed the stipulation in the 2005 Constitution, which 
established a quota of 30 per cent for women in political 
institutions.
18/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
With respect to the MDG 4 target of reducing the 
under-five  mortality  rate,  that  rate  has  decreased  by 
35 per cent, going from 88 deaths per 1,000 live births 
in 1990 to 57 per 1,000 in 2010. Despite that progress, 
we are still far from the hoped-for 13.5 per cent, which 
was our aim in order to achieve the target of reducing 
by two thirds the under-five mortality rate. The relative 
improvement is due to more people going to health-care 
facilities,  because  we  have  made  health  care  free  for 
children under 5.
With  regard  to  MDG  5,  on  improving  maternal 
health,  the  target  is  to  reduce  by  three  quarters  the 
maternal mortality rate by 2015. The mortality ratio has 
undergone a downward trend since 1990. It decreased at 
a rate of 30 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births per 
year, amounting to a reduction of 54.5 per cent between 
1990 and 2010.
As to MDG 6, combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and 
other diseases, a survey conducted in 2010 shows that 
the HIV prevalence is estimated at 1.4 per cent in the 
population  aged  15  to  49  years,  while  among  women 
ages 15 to 24 years old it is 0.8 per cent, as compared 
with  3.5  per  cent  in  2007.  Nonetheless,  we  see  a 
downward trend of HIV prevalence among women ages 
15 to 24, according to the sentinel surveilance system. 
With regard to the status of HIV orphans, the available 
data  show  that  the  number  of  deaths  has  gone  from 
12,000 per year in 2004 to fewer than 6,000 per year in 
2011. That is a decrease of approximately 50 per cent.
With  regard  to  MDG  7,  ensuring  environmental 
sustainability, in Burundi the percentage has gone from 
70 per cent to 72.5 per cent in 20 years. Data show that 
the  proportion  of  the  population  using  an  improved 
sanitation system remained stagnant, at around 46 per 
cent, between 1990 and 2010.
In  terms  of  MDG  8,  on  a  global  partnership  for 
development,  Burundi  does  its  utmost  to  mobilize 
domestic resources and external support — estimated 
at $75 billion — in order to achieve the MDGs by 2015.
Concerning  Burundi’s  position  vis-à-vis  the  post-
2015 agenda, it is evident from national consultations 
with  all  segments  of  the  population  that  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  should  focus  on  the  following 
areas:  governance,  inequality,  conflict  and  fragility; 
economic  growth  and  employment;  energy,  water 
and  a  sustainable  environment;  access  to  basic  social 
services; and food security.
Substantial progress has been made with respect to 
the strategic framework for peacebuilding, and a third 
phase of the programme is currently being developed by 
the Government, in conjunction with the United Nations 
Office in Burundi and the parent office in New York. In 
view of the notable progress that has already been made 
since our country was first placed on the agenda of the 
Peacebuilding Commission, Burundi considers that it is 
now time for it to withdraw gradually from that agenda 
in order to make way for other countries whose need is 
currently greater.
At  the  same  time,  my  Government  has  expressed 
the wish to see the United Nations Office in Burundi 
convert  in  February  2014  to  a  Burundi  country  team 
office.  That  would  enable  Burundi  to  work  in  close 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations  team  and  with 
other  partners  to  meet  the  socioeconomic  challenges 
with which it is currently faced.
Having summarized my Government’s achievements, 
I  shall  now  talk  about  Burundi’s  role  regionally  and 
internationally. 
With regard to its international role, Burundi was 
one  of  the  first  two  countries  to  take  the  courageous 
decision to participate in the African Union Mission in 
Somalia (AMISOM), where it has served since 2007. I 
should emphasize that Burundi is proud of the progress 
towards normalization in Somalia, but we call upon all 
the  partners  to  strengthen  the  operational  capacity  of 
AMISOM so that it may complete its mission.
Burundi  is  also  participating  in  peacekeeping 
operations in Cote d’Ivoire, Haiti and the Sudan. Soon, 
it will be participating in Mali and the Central African 
Republic.  The  recent  election  of  Mr.  Boubacar  Keita 
as  the  country’s  President  is  undoubtedly  a  decisive 
step  in  re-establishing  the  principles  of  democracy 
that  governed  the  country  in  the  past.  That  is  the 
right  path  towards  normalization.  In  our  view,  those 
successful elections are an important step in terms of 
Mali’s recovery. A Burundian contingent is ready to be 
deployed in that country. 
With regard to the security situation in the eastern 
part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi 
aligns  itself  with  other  members  of  the  International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  (ICGLR)  and 
partners  such  as  the  African  Union  and  the  United 
Nations to ensure peace in that country. In that regard, 
we  reaffirm  our  commitment  through  the  terms  of 
the  agreement  of  15  December  2006  and  the  relevant 
13-48668
19/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
protocols  of  the  ICGLR,  as  well  as  statements  and 
decisions made by Heads of State and Government of 
member  States  in  Addis  Abeba  and  Kampala.  At  the 
regional level, we reaffirm our commitment, under the 
Peace,  Security  and  Cooperation  Framework  for  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Region, 
signed in Addis Ababa on 24 February. 
With  regard  to  the  very  unstable  situation  in  the 
Central  African  Republic,  Burundi,  as  a  member  of 
the Economic Community of Central African States, is 
ready to work with other nations to deploy a military 
contingent there in order to participate in re-establishing 
peace. 
Concerning the situation in Egypt, Burundi hopes 
that  the  Egyptian  people  find  a  swift  way  out  of  the 
crisis.  With  our  African  Union  and  United  Nations 
partners,  we  are  prepared  to  ensure  that  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt and its people revive their democratic 
institutions. 
With  regard  to  Syria,  Burundi  believes  that  the 
international  community  must  do  all  it  can  to  help 
all  parties  reach  a  ceasefire  in  order  to  settle  their 
differences peaceably. 
With  regard  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East, 
Burundi reiterates its support for a negotiated solution 
that leads to two States living side by side in peace and 
mutual respect, in line with the relevant resolutions of 
the Security Council. 
Terrorism in its various forms has become a source 
of daily concern. Not even a week goes by without an 
act  of  terrorism  being  carried  out  somewhere  in  the 
world. Barbaric acts strike indiscriminately, affecting 
innocent people who have had the misfortune of finding 
themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
The Government of Burundi would like to take this 
opportunity to condemn, in the firmest way possible, the 
cowardly and arbitrary terrorist attack at the Westgate 
Mall  in  Nairobi.  That  heinous  act  has  plunged  into 
mourning not only Kenya, but the entire international 
community,  given  the  different  nationalities  of  the 
victims.  We  would  like  to  convey  to  our  brothers  the 
people of Kenya and to their Government our sincere 
condolences  and  to  reassure  them  of  our  friendship 
and  solidarity.  Burundi  reiterates  its  full  support  for 
the United Nations Global Counter-terrorism Strategy, 
adopted by Member States in 2006. 
With  regard  to  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Burundi would like to express its full solidarity with the 
people of Kenya, who have just democratically elected 
their leaders. Burundi would like the Court to review 
how it functions so that it can benefit Member States of 
the international community as a whole. Burundi calls 
for  a  review  of  the  Rome  Statute  at  the  next  meeting 
of  States  parties,  which  is  to  take  place  from  20  to 
28 November. In the meantime, it is important that the 
peace and reconciliation processes on our continent be 
strengthened rather than weakened.
Burundi  welcomes  the  ministerial  meeting  to  be 
held by the African Union on the sidelines of the sixty-
eight session of the General Assembly on 27 September, 
as well as the announcement that a summit of Heads of 
State will be held on 11 and 12 October in Addis Ababa.
the 
Government  of  Burundi  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and to ensure peace and security. 
We would like to conclude our statement by reiterating 
Burundi’s commitment to the ideals of the Charter of 
the United Nations. 
the  commitment  of 
We  have 
renewed 
My  Government  hopes  that  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union  can  be 
strengthened  in  terms  of  tackling  issues  related  to 
African countries in accordance with the letter and spirit 
of the founding documents of those two institutions. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now give 
the floor to His Excellency Mr. José Meade Kuribreña, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mexico.
Mr.  Meade  Kuribreña 
in 
Spanish):  On  behalf  of  President  Enrique  Peña  Nieto, 
it  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address  the  plenary  of  this 
Organization, a symbol of universal values and of the 
best causes of humankind. 
(Mexico) 
(spoke 
On behalf of the people and Government of Mexico, 
I  thank  the  international  community  for  the  generous 
expressions  of  solidarity  and  support  following  the 
weather-related events in my country. They contribute 
to  the  work  of  the  Government  and  to  the  fraternal 
participation of civil society in providing assistance to 
those affected. 
Over the past two weeks, Mexico has suffered the 
unprecedented simultaneous arrival of two hurricanes, 
Ingrid  and  Manuel,  one  on  the  Pacific  coast  and  the 
other on the Atlantic coast. Over the past few decades, 
Mexico  has  worked  hard  to  bolster  its  capability  to 
20/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
prevent  and  respond  to  natural  disasters.  However, 
the  increased  vulnerability  we  face  in  the  world 
underscores  the  need  and  urgency  for  action.  That  is 
why  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  decision  to 
convene  a  summit  in  September  2014  to  address  the 
impact  of  climate  change.  Mexico  will  participate 
enthusiastically and will continue to contribute to the 
implementation  of  the  agreements  reached  in  2010  at 
Cancún. 
I join in the international community’s unanimous 
condemnation  of  the  unspeakable  attacks  against 
civilians  in  Nairobi.  Mexico  expresses  its  solidarity 
to  the  Government  and  people  of  Kenya,  as  well  as 
our  condolences  to  relatives  of  the  victims.  Such 
unfortunate  acts  constitute  an  affront  to  peace  and 
clearly demonstrate the need for us to remain vigilant 
in the fight against terrorism. We also join those who 
have  expressed  their  condolences  to  the  Government 
and people of Pakistan following the recent earthquake.
in  multilateralism  and 
reiterates 
the 
Organization.  We  support  the  diplomatic  initiatives 
aimed  at  finding  a  peaceful  political  solution  to  the 
crisis in Syria, in particular the agreement reached by 
the United States and Russia on eliminating chemical 
weapons in that country. 
My  countrty  believes 
its  unflinching 
commitment 
to 
The  prohibition  of  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of 
chemical weapons is absolute. The events of 21 August 
outside  Damascus  are  unacceptable.  The  dismantling 
and  destruction  of  the  Syrian  arsenals,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical Weapons and the Security Council, must be 
immediate  and  unconditional.  There  can  be  no  room 
for dilatory tactics or blackmail. Mexico supports the 
convening of the “Geneva II” international conference 
on Syria as soon as possible, with the goal of achieving 
lasting peace there.
The  challenges  we  face  today  compel  us  to  seek 
a  Security  Council  that  is  truly  representative  of  the 
international community, without positions of privilege 
reserved  for  a  few;  a  Council  that  is  transparent  and 
accountable;  and  a  Council  that  acknowledges  that  a 
veto  does  not  work  in  situations  involving  genocide, 
war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Mexico believes that disarmament should continue 
to  be  one  of  the  key  goals  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
keeping with my country’s longstanding contributions 
to  the  cause  of  disarmament,  in  February  2014  in 
Nayarit,  on  Mexico’s  Pacific  coast,  we  will  host  the 
second  Conference  on  the  Humanitarian  Impact  of 
Nuclear Weapons.
Human security is also affected by the irresponsible 
use of, and illicit trafficking in, conventional weapons. 
Mexico  therefore  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  Arms 
Trade Treaty. Demonstrating great vision, the Mexican 
Senate  has  approved  the  Treaty,  and  I  deposited  our 
instrument  of  ratification  yesterday.  We  will  comply 
with  it  immediately,  even  before  its  entry  into  force 
worldwide.  Mexico  calls  on  all  States  to  ratify  the 
Treaty, which is a testament to the Organization’s ability 
to  achieve  common  solutions  to  shared  challenges.  I 
also hope that the United Nations will show the same 
willingness to take on the fight against sexual violence 
as a weapon in conflict situations.
Mexico  is  also  acting  responsibly  in  dealing 
with  the  global  drug  problem.  Like  Chile,  Colombia 
and  others,  Mexico  believes  we  should  evaluate 
internationally  agreed  policies  in  the  search  for  more 
effective  responses  based  on  a  focus  on  health  and 
a  framework  of  respect  for  human  rights  and  from  a 
perspective  of  damage  control.  The  goal  must  be  the 
well-being of society in all its aspects. 
Along  with  Costa  Rica,  Paraguay  and  others,  we 
believe  we  should  give  priority  to  prevention  so  as 
to  reduce  the  impact  on  health  and,  in  particular,  the 
violence  associated  with  drug  problems.  Similarly,  it 
would be helpful to strengthen international cooperation 
so as to reduce the illegal flows of arms and money that 
fuel criminal networks. 
Along with Guatemala and others, we believe the 
new  global  strategy  should  be  based  on  an  open  and 
inclusive debate leading up to the special session of the 
General Assembly scheduled for 2016. We welcome the 
Antigua Declaration issued at the General Assembly of 
the Organization of American States as a first step in 
the right direction towards the 2016 special session.
The  fight  against  organized  crime  must  always 
respect the rule of law and human rights. When there is 
a risk or merely a possibility that the right to privacy of 
any citizen might be infringed by any Government, we 
have  demanded  that  it  be  investigated  and  the  parties 
responsible held accountable. In Mexico, the protection 
of  personal  data  is  a  human  right  guaranteed  by  the 
Constitution.
Mexico  believes  firmly  in  free  trade  and  in 
building mechanisms that promote the free circulation 
13-48668
21/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
of people, goods and capital. That is why we and Chile, 
Colombia and Peru formed the Pacific Alliance, which 
is  organized  in  a  spirit  of  openness  and  plurality,  as 
the heterogeneity of its members with observer status 
reflects.  Our  only  goal  is  for  the  Pacific  Alliance 
to  be  an  inclusive,  useful  tool  for  the  promotion  of 
prosperity for the citizens of our nations. That is also 
the spirit behind our work this year in the Association 
of Caribbean States.
During  this  session  of  the  Assembly  we  will 
begin  the  process  of  evaluating  our  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  outlining 
a  road  map  for  the  post-2015  agenda.  The  success 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  rooted  in 
focusing  the  actions  of  the  international  community 
on  clear  and  ambitious  targets.  Despite  that,  it  is 
important  to  acknowledge  that  painful  inequality  and 
a lack of participation and access to development still 
persist  among  the  most  vulnerable  groups  in  highly 
industrialized  countries,  as  well  as  developing  ones. 
Poverty,  inequality  and  social  exclusion  exacerbate 
conflicts  and  help  to  undermine  the  rule  of  law.  The 
development  agenda  must  be  based  on  a  commitment 
to  inclusion.  Policies  that  bring  together  mechanisms 
promoting  development  and  openness  to  innovation, 
coupled with political determination on the part of the 
international  community,  will  enable  us  to  advance 
towards a world with opportunities for all.
Inclusion  should  be  a  central  premise  in  the 
negotiations  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
thus ensuring not only a narrowing of the poverty and 
inequality gaps but also active participation by society’s 
most vulnerable groups. That is why we will convene 
a  meeting  in  Mexico  to  promote  a  global  perspective 
on inclusion, in which Governments, civil society and 
United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  will 
participate with the aim of defining the parameters of 
inclusion  and  its  impact  on  development  policies,  so 
we can establish minimum thresholds for inclusion to 
which every human being is entitled. In that context, we 
acknowledge the high-level events being held within the 
framework of this session of the General Assembly — on 
persons with disabilities and on international migration 
and development. Full observance of the rights of such 
groups  is  an  essential  component  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Mexico  is  a  multi-ethnic  and  multicultural  nation 
that is proud of its 68 indigenous peoples. That is why 
we attach such importance to the World Conference on 
Indigenous Peoples,to be held in 2014, for which great 
event we will host a preparatory meeting.
Our  experience  shows  that  to  achieve  the  goal 
of  inclusion,  we  must  consider  every  dimension  of 
poverty  —  lack  of  income  and  financial  inclusion, 
nutrition, health, education, housing and basic services. 
Both  through  our  national  crusade  against  hunger 
and  as  a  member  of  the  Group  of  20,  Mexico  has 
sought  to  place  such  deficiencies  at  the  centre  of  the 
debate. The innovative feature of our national crusade 
against hunger lies in its focus on a multidimensional 
measurement  of  poverty  and  in  the  fact  that  it  seeks 
to overcome the deficiencies thus measured in order to 
arrive at sustainable and structural ways of mitigating 
the conditions that lead to hunger.
In  the  spirit  of  moving  Mexico  forward,  we  are 
undertaking  transformative  reforms  for  increasing 
access  to  quality  education,  telecommunication,  the 
financial  system  and  social  security.  Strengthening 
international  support  will  be  crucial  to  implementing 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  must  meet 
the 
international  commitments  on  financing  for 
development agreed on under the Monterrey Consensus 
and  achieve  coordinated, 
transparent  cooperation 
with  clear  goals.  That  is  why  Mexico  will  host  the 
first High-level Meeting of the Global Partnership for 
Effective Development Cooperation next year. Central 
to the agenda for that forum will be the mobilization of 
domestic resources for development. Mexico therefore 
agrees with all measures that help prevent the erosion 
of our tax base and its migration to jurisdictions with 
low or no taxes.
Today the world is coming closer together, because 
we have a greater global awareness. We are all affected 
by  the  suffering  and  challenges  of  other  nations, 
wherever we are. Let us capitalize on that awareness in 
order to include those who are excluded and to extend 
a  hand  to  those  who  have  not  had  our  opportunities.  
Let us do what is necessary to make our world a place 
where greater equality is a reality. 
President  Enrique  Peña  Nieto  wishes  to  leave  no 
doubt as to his and Mexico’s commitment to a peaceful 
world, a world in which the best causes of humankind 
make headway, an inclusive world in which inequalities 
are  reduced  and  extreme  poverty  is  eradicated  and  a 
world  in  which  economic  growth  produces  prosperity 
for all. From this rostrum, Mexico declares its firmly 
held belief in its global responsibilities. 
22/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassirou  Bako  Arifari, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  African  Integration,  la 
Francophonie and Beninese Abroad of Benin.
Mr.  Nassirou  Bako  Arifari  (Benin)  (spoke  in 
French): As he is not personally able to participate in 
this  general  debate,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Benin, Mr. Boni Yayi, has asked me to represent him. 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  congratulate  the 
President on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and, through him, 
to  honour  his  country,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  for  that 
success,  which  demonstrates  the  trust  that  it  enjoys 
within the international community. I would also like 
to congratulate the outgoing President, His Excellency 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić, who demonstrated great leadership in 
fulfilling his very busy term of office. I would also like 
to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts 
at  the  head  of  the  world  Organization,  in  particular 
since January 2012, as part of the implementation of his 
programme  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288, 
annex).
Benin 
the 
fully  supports 
implementation  of 
that  programme,  which  focuses  on  issues  that  are 
fully  consistent  with  the  views  and  priorities  of  the 
Governments of the least developed countries (LDCs), 
in  particular  those  of  my  Government  with  regard  to 
governance  matters,  namely,  sustainable  development 
and  preventing  conflicts,  disasters  and  violations  of 
human rights, as well as ensuring the participation of 
all stakeholders in the management of public affairs.
Two years from the 2015 deadline established  for 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), we can see that major efforts have been made 
by States to achieve the Goals. Assessments conducted 
at  different  levels  have  shown  that  least  developed 
countries  are  falling  far  behind  in  implementing  the 
Goals, in spite of the significant progress that has been 
made.
Nevertheless, it is a fact that achieving the Goals 
has  become  a  top  priority  of  my  Government’s  work 
and mobilizes a significant share of available resources. 
We should therefore welcome the campaign started in 
April  to  commence  the  countdown  of  the  last  1,000 
days leading up to the 31 December 2015 deadline. 
We  have  reason  to  hope  that  the  new  dynamic 
and the new life that has been breathed into efforts of 
the  international  community  will  enable  significant 
improvement  in  the  performance  of  least  developed 
countries. Benin has taken that opportunity to develop 
a road map that includes a stopwatch for the last 1,000 
days in order to speed up the achievement of the Goals 
by  2015.  My  country  is  one  of  16  African  countries 
deemed able to achieve at least five of the eight MDGs 
by that date. 
I  would  like  to  commend  the  leadership  of  the 
United Nations and its relevant bodies, as well as other 
partner agencies, in mobilizing energies to assist States 
in achieving the Goals. It is important to fully include 
in  the  post-2015  development  agenda  those  MDGs 
that have not been achieved on time and give them top 
priority in order to ensure there is continuity with the 
new  normative  framework  established  by  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  held 
in Rio de Janeiro and the demands that will result from 
the goals currently being developed. In that regard, the 
main theme for the general debate of the sixty-eighth 
session — “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage” — is quite timely and perfectly in line with 
the consultations that have taken place at various levels 
to develop that agenda.
Thanks to the meticulous clarification of issues and 
challenges   by the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons 
on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  appointed  by 
the  Secretary  General  to  present  recommendations 
to  him,  we  have  a  galvanizing  vision  and  appropriate 
materials  to  build  a  unique,  coherent  programme 
regarding  all  those  points,  and  pragmatic  enough  to 
ensure  that  everybody  on  the  planet  is  placed  on  a 
sustainable  development  path  so  everyone  can  have 
access to shared a prosperity that leaves no country or 
person aside.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  must  be 
universal in nature. It must also be broken down into 
specific  measures  targeting  reforms  and  corrective 
measures needed to re-establish any balances that have 
been  upset  or  threatened.  From  that  standpoint,  it  is 
of  crucial  importance  that  the  situations  of  greatest 
current concern to the international community should 
enjoy particular attention, as stipulated in principle 6 of 
the 1992 Rio Declaration. We should therefore strongly 
support what is stated in the Secretary-General’s report 
entitled  “A  life  of  dignity  for  all”  (A/68/202),  that 
the  needs  of  the  least  developed  and  most  vulnerable 
countries should form the basis for defining the goals 
of the programme.
13-48668
23/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
It  is  a  welcome  fact  that  the  situation  in  those 
countries  has  already  been  the  subject  of  significant 
thinking,  with  key  action  programmes  that  cover 
periods  that  go  far  beyond  2015.  In  that  regard,  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries  for  the  Decade  2011-2020  is  and  should 
be  perceived  as  an  integral  part  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Its  main  aim  is  to  ensure  the 
transition of half of the 49 least developed countries to 
a higher-income level by 2020.
Against  that  backdrop,  Benin  is  quite  clear  about 
its responsibility as the head of the global coordination 
bureau for the LDCs. We intend to propose the holding 
of  an  international  conference  on  the  theme  “New 
partnerships  for  developing  the  productive  capacities 
of  LDCs  in  the  context  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action”, to be held in Cotonou 
in April 2014. That effort already enjoys strong support 
from the United Nations and some development partners 
from diverse cooperation frameworks, whether they are 
North-South, South-South or according to other types 
of  triangular  partnerships.  I  appeal  for  goodwill  to 
help  make  that  voluntary  initiative  a  decisive  turning 
point  in  terms  of  mobilizing  the  necessary  resources 
to  help  least  developed  countries  make  the  leap  to 
industrialization based on their competitive advantages. 
That route offers LDCs a possibility for creating decent 
jobs  so  they  can  make  the  most  of  their  demographic 
advantages and turn that into a factor for stability and 
prosperity.
We  must  enhance  the  role  of  quality,  relevant 
and  transformative  education  at  the  heart  of  the 
social,  economic  and  development  agendas  —  an 
education system focused on the real needs of society 
and  the  modern  world.  In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the 
establishment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  Global 
Education  First  initiative,  which  is  a  platform  for 
leading  an  open  debate  on  the  aims  of  education  in 
the  current  context  and  to  prepare  children  for  living 
active, productive and personally enriching lives. That 
is  a  prerequisite  for  meeting  the  challenge  of  social 
inclusion of young people.
Benin  has  been  honoured  to  participate  actively 
since February in the work of the group of Member States 
championing  the  initiative.  I  urge  the  international 
community  to  support  that  noble  project,  which  is  a 
guarantee  of  adequate,  inclusive  training  for  youth.  I 
call  on  all  countries  to  join  the  Initiative  in  order  to 
contribute  to  the  collective  thinking  and  its  efficient 
implementation.
At  Rio  de  Janeiro  we  affirmed  the  inextricable 
link  that  exists  among  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental  pillars  of  sustainable  development. 
However, that vision will not materialize if we set aside 
the  existing  relationship  among  peace,  security  and 
development.  We  should  invest  more  in  guaranteeing 
peace and security as an essential factor for sustainable 
development. At a time when we are thinking about the 
broad outlines of the post-2015 development agenda, we 
should also forge a consensus on the path to follow and 
the means to strengthen the bases of international law 
pursuant  to  respect  for  the  essential  principles  of  the 
Charter of United Nations, to which all States Member 
of the Organization have freely acceded. 
We must constantly strive to bolster the ramparts of 
peace; without them, any development will be in vain, 
in the light of the destruction that comes from conflicts 
triggered by their violation. I would take as an example 
the  atrocities  that  we  see,  sometimes  at  a  frightening 
level,  such  as  what  occurred  in  Syria  with  the  use  of 
banned  chemical  weapons,  which  we  condemn  in  the 
firmest possible terms.
We  must  reinforce  the  clout  of  the  international 
regulatory  regimes  and  make  progress  in  the  area 
of  disarmament,  whose  paralysis  carries  great  risk 
for  humankind.  In  that  regard,  too,  we  welcome  the 
conclusion of the Arms Trade Treaty. 
We  must  better  harness  the  mechanisms  for  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and conflict prevention. 
The  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  organizations  is  a  valuable  tool  for  building 
a  more  integrated  and  solidarity-based  world.  That 
solidarity must be clearly displayed against the rise of a 
violent extremism that is increasingly dangerous when 
it takes root in our societiees by associating itself with 
transnational organized crime networks.
All  those  all  equally  pressing  challenges  that  the 
international  community  needs  to  address.  We  would 
benefit  from  adopting  a  preventive  and  proactive,  as 
well as healing, approach in order to improve the health 
of  our  planet  and  constantly  expand  the  vital  space 
necessary  for  ensuring  that  humans  flourish,  if  we 
really want to ensure the universal access to peace and 
shared prosperity that we all so sorely want. 
24/26 
13-48668
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.14
The  very  encouraging  way  in  which  the  crisis  in 
Mali  was  managed  is  to  the  credit  of  the  partnership 
between the United Nations and regional organizations. 
It proved what the international community can achieve 
if it uses its levers of our collective security system in 
time. Benin has been honoured to take an active part, 
alongside other African countries, in the noble mission 
of rebuilding the State in Mali. 
The election of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita 
is the start of a new era where Mali is returning to the 
family of free nations struggling to bring happiness to 
their peoples. In that connection, the policies adopted 
in the United Nations integrated strategy for the Sahel 
must be decisively implemented in order to transform 
challenges into opportunities for growth and progress 
for the peoples of the region for the certain benefit of 
international peace and security.
We  must  also  commend  the  efforts  undertaken 
to  stabilize  the  countries  of  the  Great  Lakes  region, 
especially  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  as  well  as  Somalia,  where  the  African  Union 
has  shown  its  ability  to  restore  and  rebuild  peace, 
with, of course, the support of the United Nations. The 
case  of  the  Central  African  Republic  gives  us  pause, 
as  it  requires  a  commitment  from  the  international 
community  commensurate  with  seriousness  of  the 
current challenges.
The resurgence of piracy and armed robbery at sea 
in the Gulf of Guinea has had an enormous impact on 
the economies of the countries of the Atlantic coast and 
in the hinterlands. The initiatives undertaken with the 
support of the United Nations and the backing offered 
by  our  bilateral  partners  have  enabled  us  to  set  up 
information-sharing  centres  pursuant  to  resolutions 
2018 (2011) and 2039 (2012) of the Security Council. That 
was the aim of the joint summit on maritime security 
of the Heads of State and Government of the Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States 
(ECCAS)  and  the  Commission  of  the  Gulf  of  Guinea 
that  took  place  in  Yaoundé  on  24  and  25  June.  That 
followed the meeting of Foreign Ministers and Defence 
Ministers of ECOWAS, ECCAS and the Gulf of Guinea 
Commission  that  took  place  in  Cotonou  on  18  and 
19 March. After Yaoundé, there was the Malabo summit 
of the Heads of State of the Gulf of Guinea Commission 
held on 9 July, which took the historic decision to open 
the Gulf of Guinea Commission to all States in the area 
of the Gulf of Guinea, which gives the arrangements an 
inclusive technical consultation framework. 
Strengthening  regional  cooperation  means  that 
we need to set up an international support mechanism 
to  improve  cost-sharing  in  order  to  guarantee  lasting 
results. It is important for the Security Council to adopt 
a new resolution to that effect.
More than ever, the United Nations must stand firm 
in its role as the best forum for a fruitful multilateralism, 
where  different  initiatives  come  together  to  give  the 
necessary  impetus  for  more  inclusive  and  less  unjust 
global  governance  that  finds  comprehensive,  lasting 
solutions to crises of every stripe that trouble the world 
with  disastrous  repercussions  on  human  security  and 
human rights.
The delays in the establishment of a Palestinian State 
with all the attributes of an independent and sovereign 
State, including full membership in the United Nations, 
living side by side with the State of Israel within secure 
borders and with full international guarantees is still a 
subject of concern. In that regard, Benin welcomes the 
efforts  of  the  Obama  Administration  that  have  led  to 
the  renewal  of  dialogue  between  the  Palestinians  and 
Israelis. 
Along  the  same  lines,  the  paralysis  in  the  United 
Nations with respect to different political and military 
crises shows how urgent it is to reform the international 
system, in particular the Security Council. Achieving 
that  reform  would  be  real  proof  of  the  commitment 
of  the  United  Nations  to  inclusive  and  less  polemic 
management of the great problems of today.
The  Government  of  Benin  is  firmly  committed 
to  the  universality,  indivisibility  and  interdependence 
of  all  human  rights,  which  it  considers  to  be  the 
third  pillar  of  the  United  Nations  system.  They  are 
considerations  that  govern  our  participation  in  the 
work of the Human Rights Council, where we strive to 
promote a correlation between the behaviour of States 
and the international obligations they have undertaken 
through a mutual open dialogue and mutually enriching 
cooperation  as  the  most  effective  way  for  developing 
and  protecting  universally  recognized  human  rights 
and the fight against impunity. 
Governments  must  undertake 
to  create  more 
cohesion  between 
to  ensure 
understanding  and  consensus  on  essential  matters 
and  avoid  internal  divisions  that  undermine  the  State 
stakeholders  and 
13-48668
25/26
A/68/PV.14 
26/09/2013
while negative forces are constantly striving to wreak 
havoc. My Government is committed to strengthening 
the principles of democracy and the implementation of 
effective  local  development  policies.  My  Government 
remains  convinced  that  promoting,  developing  and 
shoring  up  democracy,  far  from  being  a  luxury,  is  a 
vital and unavoidable necessity for all African States.
That is why Benin is striving each day to find the 
ways and means to strengthen and streamline its political 
system  so  as  to  permanently  anchor  it  in  universal 
values.  I  remain  convinced  that  democracy  can  be 
viable and useful for the people only if it contributes to 
development, to promoting the dignity and fundamental 
rights of citizens, to strengthening social justice and to 
maintaining peace and international security.
In conclusion, I would like to express the compassion 
of the people of Benin to the brotherly people of Kenya 
for  the  tragedy  they  have  experienced  following  the 
recent terrorist attack. The same compassion goes out 
to all those people in the world who are suffering from 
intolerance and its attendant violence.
The meeting rose at 9.10 p.m.
26/26 
13-48668
