United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
4th plenary meeting
Monday, 23 September 2013, 5.30 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.4
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Moreno 
(Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 5.50 p.m.
High-level Meeting on the Realization of the 
Millennium Development Goals and Other 
Internationally Agreed Development Goals for 
Persons with Disabilities
Agenda item 27 (continued)
Social development
(b) Social development, including questions 
relating to the world social situation and to 
youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance  with  sub-paragraph  (c)  of  paragraph  3  of 
resolution 66/124, of 19 December 2011, we will now 
hear  presentations  by  the  co-Chairs  of  round  table 
discussions 1 and 2 of the High-level Meeting.
I give the floor to Mr. Arsenio Balisacan, Secretary 
of  Socioeconomic  Planning  of  the  Philippines  and 
co-Chair of round table 1.
Mr.  Balisacan  (Philippines):  Today  presents  a 
remarkable opportunity to push for a post-2015 era that 
is  inclusive  of  persons  with  disabilities.  International 
and regional development cooperation partnerships can 
play a key role in promoting that objective. The post-2015 
development agenda must serve to send a clear message 
to  the  world  that  we  value  everyone’s  contribution, 
including those of persons with disabilities. A human-
based approach to disability needs to be adopted, one 
that can in turn contribute to national development and 
wealth creation. 
Several  Member  States  noted  that  the  entry  into 
the  force  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  and  its  Optional 
Protocol  had  provided  a  platform  to  advocate  for 
change  and  a  paradigm  shift  from  a  welfare-based 
approach  to  one  based  on  promoting  the  rights  of 
persons  with  disabilities.  At  the  same  time,  a  gap 
between policy and implementation remains. Member 
States  emphasized  the  importance  of  the  universal 
ratification  of  the  Conventoin  to  ensure  the  universal 
enjoyment  of  the  rights  it  enshrines  by  persons  with 
disabilities.  Therefore,  the  signature  and  ratification 
of the convention and its Optional Protocol should be 
promoted.
The  international  community  is  committed  to 
changing  the  situation  and  to  advance  the  rights  of 
persons with disabilities. The outcome document adopted 
today (resolution 68/3) recognizes the urgent need for 
action by all the relevant stakeholders to promote more 
ambitious  disability-inclusive  development  strategies 
backed up by increased international cooperation and 
support.
The  focus  of  round  table  1  was  the  role  of 
international and regional cooperation and partnerships 
in promoting the participation and inclusion of persons 
with  disabilities 
achieve  disability-inclusive 
development.  In  addition  to  the  many  examples  of 
national and regional efforts, numerous Member States 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48395 (E)
*1348395*
A/68/PV.4 
23/09/2013
stressed the importance of including specific reference 
to  disability  issues  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  referring  to  the  remaining  challenges  and  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
In the same way, many Member States reaffirmed 
their  commitment  to  strengthening  international  and 
regional partnerships and cooperation, with numerous 
States  mentioning  it  as  key  to  mitigating  ongoing 
challenges for persons with disabilities. Several Member 
States called for strengthening South-South cooperation 
in  particular.  Governments  also  placed  emphasis  on 
the protection of children with disabilities, improving 
access  to  services  such  as  education  and  health, 
opportunities  for  skills-training  and  employment,  as 
well  as  access  to  appropriate  housing,  as  important 
areas for action. Multiple approaches should be used in 
reaching out to the diverse population of persons with 
disabilities, as well as to their families.
Until  now, 
the  potential  of  development 
cooperation to advance the achievements of sustainable 
development by supporting the contribution of persons 
with disabilities has been largely unrealized. That must 
change.
and 
regional 
cooperation 
International 
and 
partnerships  will  be  essential  components  to  support 
the  mainstreaming  of  disability 
in  development 
towards  2015  and  beyond.  Today  Member  States 
indicated  that  they  have  made  invaluable  progress  at 
the  domestic  level.  They  also  highlighted  a  number 
of common challenges faced in terms of international 
and  regional  cooperation  and  partnerships.  That 
includes  a  lack  of  capacity,  including  in  human 
resources,  which  can  impede  the  development  and 
implementation of policies or programmes that support 
disability-inclusive  development,  as  well  as  financial 
and  technical  constraints,  which  can  inhibit  action 
through  both  international  and  regional  cooperation 
and partnerships.
There is both a lack of awareness of disability and 
an understanding of various issues, such as gender and 
disability  perspectives.  A  lack  of  disability-specific 
data renders disability invisible in development goals, 
monitoring and evaluations. Finally, there is a lack of 
coordination  among  the  various  actors  involved  in  a 
given development initiative.
We have heard many examples of the ways in which 
international and regional cooperation and partnership 
can serve as vehicles for change in national efforts to 
to 
in 
the 
technical  assistance 
mainstream disability. These have included supporting 
the assessment of national capacity gaps and subsequent 
efforts towards capacity-building; providing economic 
and 
implementation, 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  disability-sensitive 
national  policies  and  programmes;  supporting  public 
awareness  campaigns 
increase  knowledge  and 
understanding in the larger society regarding disability 
and the situation of persons with disabilities; building 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  situation  of 
persons  with  disabilities  to  support  evidence-based 
policymaking — this can include support for research 
and  access  to  scientific  and  technical  knowledge; 
supporting  access  to  and  the  sharing  of  accessible 
and  assistive  technologies  and  through  the  transfer 
of  technologies;  and  supporting  accessibility  through 
projects related to the environment, transportation and 
information and communications technology. 
A  number  of  participants  highlighted 
the 
to 
importance  of 
programme development and implementation to ensure 
disability-inclusive development. 
twin-track  approach 
taking  a 
partnerships.  Regional 
Regionalism  remains  an  important  engine  for 
initiatives, 
international 
particularly  in  the  context  of  regional  decades,  are 
central  to  mainstreaming  disability  in  development 
cooperation  and  can  help  with  mainstreaming  on 
the  ground.  We  heard  examples  from  the  Caribbean 
Community  of  its  regional  initiatives  to  address  the 
issue of climate change. The European Union stressed 
that  it  would  continue  to  ensure  that  the  disability 
dimension is part of our development work. In Asia and 
the Pacific, the Asian strategy has helped reaffirm the 
commitment to persons with disabilities to make their 
rights real. Developments within the Southern Common 
Market highlighted the growing importance of South-
South, triangular and decentralized cooperation based 
on  mutual  interests  and  shared  responsibility  of  our 
parties. 
Partnerships  between  private  sector  entities,  the 
public  sector  and  civil  society  entities  can  also  play 
an  important  role  in  advancing  disability-inclusive 
development.  Equal  participation  in  economic,  social 
and  political  life  can  contribute  to  economic  growth. 
There  is  a  need  to  further  strengthen  international 
cooperation  and  support  domestic  efforts  for  the 
realization  of  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  leading  up  to  2015  and  beyond,  for  persons 
with  disabilities.  Increasing  mobilization  of  public 
2/5 
13-48395
23/09/2013 
A/68/PV.4
and private resources and exchange of goods and good 
practices,  including  by  utilizing  multiple  modalities 
of  regional  and  subregional  cooperation,  North-South 
cooperation, South-South and triangular cooperation, is 
encouraged to achieve this objective. All stakeholders 
should be encouraged to take urgent action to promote 
a  disability  perspective  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. We must ensure that we leave no one behind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Heidi  Hautala,  Minister  of 
International Development of Finland, who co-chaired 
round table 2.
Ms. Hautala (Finland): Allow me to read out the 
summary of the co-chairs of round table 2. 
In  terms  of  conclusions  and  recommendations, 
welcoming  the  adoption  of  the  outcome  document 
(resolution 68/3) of the High-level Meeting on Disability 
and  Development,  which  reaffirms  the  international 
community’s  commitment  to  advancing  the  rights 
of  all  persons  with  disabilities  and  work  together  for 
disability-inclusive development, round table 2 brought 
forward  the  following  recommendations  on  how  to 
ensure a disability-inclusive post-2015 agenda. 
development 
all  development 
agenda.  According 
First,  we  must  adopt  an  inclusive  and  equitable 
post-2015 
to 
article 32 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with  Disabilities, 
cooperation 
should  be  inclusive  of  and  accessible  to  persons  with 
disabilities. Adopting an inclusive and equitable post-
2015 development agenda implies recognizing that the 
ultimate goal of development cooperation is to further 
human dignity, social and economic inclusion, equality 
and poverty eradication. The content of goals, targets 
and  indicators  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
should correspond to principles and standards of civic, 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights  of  the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
and other international human rights instruments.
equality 
and 
non-discrimination.  In  order  to  be  able  to  ensure 
disability-inclusive  development, 
international 
community  should  strive  to  guarantee  that  equality 
and  non-discrimination  are  reflected  throughout  the 
future  development  agenda.  Ensuring  universality  in 
goal-setting  is  important  but  cannot  alone  contribute 
to  reducing  existing  inequalities.  Special  measures 
and specific targets should be designed to remove the 
barriers  that  persons  with  disabilities  are  facing  and 
Secondly,  we  must 
ensure 
the 
ensure  that  persons  with  disabilities  can  enjoy  the 
benefits of development on equal grounds with others. 
Attention  must  be  paid  to  multiple  grounds  for 
exclusion  and  discrimination.  This  implies  collecting 
data and strengthening research towards discovering the 
underlying reasons for exclusion and discrimination. As 
persons with disabilities are not a homogenous group, 
data needs to be disaggregated by impairment, barriers 
and other grounds for exclusion, such as, for example, 
geographic  location,  age  and  gender.  Discrimination 
against  women  and  girls  with  disabilities  should 
be  taken  into  account  when  discussing  the  future 
development agenda. 
Thirdly, we must advance accessibility. The removal 
of  physical,  social,  economic,  communicational, 
attitudinal,  institutional  and  legal  barriers  needs  to 
be  taken  into  account  when  implementing  the  future 
goals of the post-2015 agenda in order to ensure equal 
access  to  inclusive  education,  employment,  open  and 
decent work, social protection and health-care services. 
Specific  and  appropriate  measures  to  overcome  such 
barriers could include, inter alia, engineering universal 
design  and  assistive 
technologies  and  promoting 
community-based  rehabilitation.  In  this  regard,  all 
Member  States  should  work  together  to  strengthen 
international  cooperation  and  partnerships,  inter  alia 
through  technology  transfer,  finance  and  capacity-
building. 
their 
through 
including 
Fourthly,  on  the  importance  of  an  effective  and 
meaningful  participation,  persons  with  disabilities 
are  key  actors  and  stakeholders  when  elaborating, 
implementing  and  monitoring  the  post-2015  agenda, 
and they should be closely consulted with and actively 
involved, 
representative 
organizations.  This  should  also  apply  to  global  and 
national  development  agendas.  Inclusive  education 
should  be  a  priority  when  considering  the  targets  of 
the  post-2015  agenda,  as  education  is  a  crucial  factor 
in  improving  opportunities  for  participation  and  a 
key  vector  for  poverty  reduction  and  decent  work. 
Furthermore,  all  development  efforts  should  strive  to 
build the capacity of persons with disabilities and their 
organizations in order for them to be able to know and 
claim their rights. 
Fifthly and lastly, we must increase follow-up and 
monitoring. To strengthen the follow-up and monitoring 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  States  should 
ensure that mechanisms for follow-up and monitoring 
13-48395
3/5
A/68/PV.4 
23/09/2013
of  international  and  national  plans  and  commitments 
are  set  up  and  inclusive  of  and  accessible  to  persons 
with disabilities. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the Deputy Secretary-General.
The Deputy Secretary-General: I understand that 
this has been an extraordinary day. Today’s High-level 
Meeting  is  a  milestone  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations.  Member  States  have  shown  leadership  and 
commitment by adopting a new tool — an action-oriented 
final  document  (resolution  68/3) —  to  strengthen  our 
work to realize disability-inclusive development at all 
levels.  On  behalf  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
I  want  to  warmly  thank  members  for  all  their  efforts 
and  work  for  an  extremely  important  cause,  which  I 
would characterize as practical solidarity with people 
with disabilities. That reconfirmation of every human 
being’s equal value is, to me, what this is all about. We 
are all aware of the challenge. But today we recognize 
the  enormous  opportunity  of  the  more  than  1  billion 
people with disabilities being given the chance to make 
the  most  of  their  lives.  Let  me  repeat  and  highlight 
some key features of the document. 
But before doing so, let me say something informally 
about the sad fact that evidently many participants were 
not  given  an  opportunity  to  make  their  statements.  I 
am  a  former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
I  can  recall  similar  instances  when  I  was  President. 
I  want  to  tell  participants  how  important  it  is  that  all 
voices be heard. But with modern technology evolving 
so much more than when I was President, seven years 
ago,  members  should  know  that  every  speech  they 
submit to the Secretariat will be posted on the website 
of  the  High-level  Meeting.  That  is  why  we  have  so 
many readers — the many people on the outside who 
follow these proceedings. I would therefore encourage 
everyone  to  post  their  statements,  in  particular  those 
who  did  not  have  a  chance  to  speak.  I  regret  deeply 
that  that  was  the  case.  The  Organization  builds  on 
universality  and  sovereign  equality.  I  really  feel  the 
pain that some have, having written speeches with so 
much  of  their  soul,  blood  and  heart  —  and  then  not 
being able to deliver them. But please pass them on. I 
feel very strongly about that. I will follow up this issue 
myself. 
Turning  to  some  of  the  highlights,  as  members 
know very well, I find it important that Member States 
have  reiterated  their  determination  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  for  persons 
with disabilities. Member States have also underscored 
the  need  for  all  to  take  urgent  action  towards  the 
adoption  and 
implementation  of  more  ambitious 
disability  national  development  strategies,  backed  by 
increased  international  cooperation.  There  has  to  be 
an interplay between national and international action. 
Persons with disabilities will remain disproportionately 
vulnerable to poverty without a targeted focus on their 
rights and concerns. I have seen that myself in my many 
years  in  humanitarian  and  conflict-related  situations. 
Without more coherent and targeted poverty reduction 
efforts, we may not be able to achieve, or sustain, MDG 
progress.
I fully agreed with Minister Balisacan and Minister 
Hautala when they stressed the importance of listening 
to  all  voices  and  all  persons  with  disabilities  as  we 
work to formulate a global development agenda beyond 
2015.  I  have  a  special  responsibility,  given  to  me  by 
the Secretary-General, to follow this issue, which will 
be  with  us  for  the  next  two  years  or  so.  I  can  assure 
the Assembly that I will keep in mind the situation of 
people with disabilities. I hope that their voices will be 
heard, both in the meeting rooms at the United Nations 
but also back in their own countries and capitals. 
A Prime Minister once taught me something about 
how to measure the quality of a society. He said, “Every 
society should, in the end, be judged by how it treats its 
most vulnerable people.” That is the quality control of a 
good society: how do we treat the most vulnerable. It is 
a very useful rule in life. If one judges how disabilities 
are treated and then measures that quality, then I think 
we will have very important advice that we could use in 
setting the direction in a more determined way.
Member  States  have  also  resolved  to  undertake 
what  I  call  a  range  of  bold  actions,  namely,  first,  to 
achieve  the  full  implementation  of  the  normative 
framework on disability and development; secondly, to 
ensure  that  all  development  policies  reflect  the  needs 
of  all  persons  with  disabilities;  thirdly,  to  develop 
plans,  legislation,  policy  and  institutional  structures 
and  capacities  to  advance  the  inclusion  of  persons 
with  disabilities;  fourthly,  to  promote  the  inclusion 
of  persons  with  disabilities  in  strategic  areas  such  as 
education,  health  care,  social  protection,  employment 
and  humanitarian  responses;  and  fifthly,  to  improve 
disability data collection, analysis and monitoring. 
4/5 
13-48395
23/09/2013 
A/68/PV.4
Finnish  President  Paasikivi  also 
taught  me 
something.  He  said  that  the  source  of  wisdom  was 
knowing the facts. I think that data collection is very 
important. Lastly, Member States resolved to encourage 
the  mobilization  of  public  and  private  resources  on  a 
sustainable basis at all levels to mainstream disability 
in development. Those are six very important points of 
action.
In  his  reports  on  disability  and  development,  the 
Secretary-General, together with all the relevant United 
Nations  entities,  will  provide  an  update  on  progress 
in 
the  outcome  document.  Those 
reports will serve as an important tool to maintain the 
momentum  for  global-wide  action  on  disabilities  and 
development.
implementing 
I  call  upon  all  Member  States,  civil  society  and 
other actors to implement the international framework 
on  disability  and  development,  and  the  outcome 
document of this High-level Meeting. That is a shared 
responsibility.  The  Secretary-General  and  I  are  fully 
committed  to  mobilizing  the  United  Nations  system 
behind these goals.
should 
be 
of 
proud 
Participants 
their 
accomplishments  today.  We  would  not  be  celebrating 
this achievement without the tireless efforts of everyone 
in  the  Hall,  or  without  their  work  back  in  their  own 
countries  communities.  Participants  are  helping  to 
give  life  to  core  values  and  fundamental  principles, 
that is, the dignity of every human being, equality of 
opportunity,  and  full  participation.  That  is  the  core 
of  participants’  mission,  but  it  is  also  the  heart  and 
soul  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. Let us never forget those 
guiding principles of the Organization, what we stand 
for  and  what  we  have  to  show  in  practical  deeds  in 
life.  Our  job  is  to  work  to  close  the  gap  between  the 
values and ideals of the Charter and the sometimes sad 
realities of life around the world. We have to narrow the 
divide between the world as it is today and the world 
as we want it to be. That is actually the mission of the 
Organization: to diminish the gap between the world as 
it is and the world as it must be, as we want it to be and 
as it is possible to make it. 
Thanks to those here, perhaps that gap has narrowed 
today. But that depends upon what we do. In a way, this 
is just a step in one direction. Looking back on many 
years  in  diplomacy  and  having  gone  through  many 
processes of negotiation, in the end what counts is what 
we do in practice and in action. The accountability for 
this outcome document rests on all of us. We have to 
translate the document into practical solidarity — the 
word  I  used  in  the  beginning  —  and  live  up  to  the 
commitments that we are making and what the Charter 
and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all 
the  documents  that  relate  to  the  situation  of  persons 
with disabilities are all about. 
Let  us  therefore  commit  together  to  build  an 
inclusive  development  agenda  that  fully  incorporates 
the rights and concerns of persons with disabilities for 
the good of all and for the good of a life of dignity for 
all. A life of dignity is a life in peace; a life of dignity 
is a life with development; a life of dignity is a life with 
respect for human rights and the rule of law, including 
for those who are in the most vulnerable positions. Let 
us prove that we are standing up for the equal value of 
every human being. 
I thank delegations for their efforts. I am sorry for 
the fact that we could not continue the Meeting for two 
days,  which  we  probably  needed,  but  representatives 
know  how  this  week  is.  I  really  want  again  to  plead 
with  representatives  to  give  us  their  speeches  and  let 
us see this as part of an ongoing effort to which we are 
committed. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the Deputy Secretary-General for his statement.
The  High-level  Meeting  on 
the  Realization 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  Other 
Internationally Agreed Development Goals for Persons 
with Disabilities is now concluded.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 27.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
13-48395
5/5
