United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
24th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 1 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.24
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
The  President:  I  should  now  like  to  consult 
members  on  the  rotation  of  the  Chairs  of  the  six 
Main  Committees  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
forthcoming sessions.
I would first like to thank the regional groups for 
the  flexibility  demonstrated  in  the  distribution  of  the 
Chairs of the Main Committees for the current session, 
which was in large part made possible by the interim 
arrangements recently approved on the pattern for the 
rotation of the Chairs of the Main Committees for the 
next  five  sessions  of  the  Assembly.  The  arrangement 
reached on the rotation of the chairmanships of the six 
Main Committees among the five regional groups for 
the forthcoming sessions is as follows.
For  the  sixty-ninth  session,  the  First  Committee 
goes  to  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States; 
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee  (Fourth  Committee)  goes  to  the  Group  of 
Asia-Pacific States; the Second Committee goes to the 
Group of Western European and other States; the Third 
Committee  goes  to  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States; 
the  Fifth  Committee  goes  to  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States; and the Sixth Committee goes to the 
Group of African States.
For the seventieth session, the First Committee goes 
to  the  Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States; 
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth  Committee)  goes  to  the  Group  of  African 
States;  the  Second  Committee  goes  to  the  Group  of 
Eastern  European  States;  the  Third  Committee  goes 
to  the  Group  of  African  States;  the  Fifth  Committee 
goes to the Group of Asia-Pacific States; and the Sixth 
Committee goes to the Group of Latin American and 
Caribbean States.
For the seventy-first session, the First Committee 
goes to the Group of African States; the Special Political 
and  Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee) 
goes  to  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States;  the 
Second Committee goes to the Group of Asia-Pacific 
States; the Third Committee goes to the Group of Latin 
American and Caribbean States; the Fifth Committee 
goes  to  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States; and the Sixth Committee goes to the Group of 
Western European and other States.
For the seventy-second session, the First Committee 
goes  to  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States;  the  Special 
Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth 
Committee)  goes  to  the  Group  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States;  the  Second  Committee  goes 
to  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States;  the  Third 
Committee goes to the Group of Western European and 
other States; the Fifth Committee goes to the Group of 
African  States;  and  the  Sixth  Committee  goes  to  the 
Group of Asia-Pacific States.
For the seventy-third session, the First Committee 
goes  to  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States;  the 
Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth  Committee)  goes  to  the  Group  of  African 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-49069 (E)
*1349069*
A/68/PV.24 
01/10/2013
States;  the  Second  Committee  goes  to  the  Group 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States;  the  Third 
Committee  goes  to  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States; 
the  Fifth  Committee  goes  to  the  Group  of  Western 
European  and  other  States;  and  the  Sixth  Committee 
goes to the Group of African States.
The distribution of the Chairs, as I have just read 
out,  is  of  course  without  prejudice  to  the  possibility 
for  regional  groups  to  swap  chairmanships  among 
themselves, or to paragraph 22 of resolution 67/297, of 
29 August 2013, by which the Assembly mandated the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly to prepare arrangements 
during  the  current  session  concerning  the  election  of 
Chairs and Rapporteurs of the Main Committees, with 
the  aim  of  establishing  a  predictable,  transparent  and 
fair mechanism.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides 
to  approve  this  interim  arrangement  concerning  the 
rotation of Chairs of the Main Committees for the next 
five sessions of the Assembly?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m.
2/2 
13-49069
