United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
30th plenary meeting
Monday, 7 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.30
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Sinhaseni 
(Thailand), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development
Agenda item 18 (continued)
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the 2002 International Conference on Financing for 
Development and the 2008 Review Conference
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  I  wish  to  express  the 
support  of  the  Slovak  Republic  for  the  efforts  to 
enhance discussions on one of the most crucial topics 
not  only  for  the  United  Nations,  Member  States  and 
observers, but above all for every single human being 
on our planet.
I  would  like  to  align  my  statement  with  that 
delivered by the observer of the European Union earlier 
(see A/68/PV.29).
sustainable  development 
Discussions  on  how  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015 and on defining 
the  post-2015 
agenda, 
including the important issue of effective, transparent 
and sufficient financing, should be a focal point of our 
efforts  in  the  coming  months  and  years.  Time  is  not 
our ally, and neither are the global trends, be they man-
made or the result of a natural cycle.
Achieving  sustainable  development  is  a  great 
challenge  for  this  century.  Efforts  to  address  the 
three  pillars  of  development  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental  —  should  take  into  account  global 
challenges and local needs and possibilities in one set 
of goals.
The success of sustainable development will depend 
on United Nations coherence and accountability. Global 
partnership and strong political leadership are needed 
in the context of achieving sustainable development in 
the framework of a post-2015 development agenda.
the  need 
to  global 
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
for  creative 
Development  underscored 
for  sustainable 
approaches 
development.  This  complex 
is  now  being 
considered by a special Intergovernmental Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing.  I 
am pleased to represent my country on that Committee, 
which began its work at the end of August.
financing 
topic 
As a result of the economic crisis, the resources for 
development are limited. It is clear that public resources 
alone are not sufficient for achieving sustainable goals. 
This situation requires a more innovative, creative and 
open-minded  approach  from  every  single  actor  and 
stakeholder.  We  have  to  focus  our  attention  on  new 
forms of financing, including global and private funds. 
We  have  to  discuss  more  seriously  the  potential  of 
carbon taxes, a solidarity levy on air tickets, solidarity 
tobacco  contributions,  voluntary  contributions,  debt 
convergence  and  trade  issues.  One  innovative  means 
of  funding  development  is  the  blending  of  resources. 
Development assistance will continue to be vital.
In  order  to  mobilize  large-scale  financing  for 
development,  we  need  more  than  ever  innovative 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50232 (E)
*1350232*
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
public-private  partnerships.  We  have  to  give  greater 
support  to  the  idea  of  private-sector  involvement  in 
the development agenda, at the domestic, regional and 
international levels. On the one hand, the Governments 
of  developing  countries  may  contribute  to  our  efforts 
by  creating  conditions  for  domestic  development  and 
growth, stabilizing economies and supporting small and 
medium-sized  companies.  On  the  other  hand,  private 
actors, both domestic and international, are crucial in 
creating  more  jobs  and  in  assisting  in  the  transfer  of 
new technologies to developing countries.
Sustainable development will require the leadership 
of  international  and  multinational  corporations.  Their 
economic and political influence and potential to speed 
up sustainable development would be essential.
Developing  countries  are  capable  of 
taking 
responsibility for their future and for mobilizing funds. 
They are capable of defining their needs so that their 
national ownership of processes can be secured. What 
we need to do is deepen dialogue between donors and 
recipients,  tailor  global  needs  to  local  conditions  and 
help countries in transition to build their capacities.
One  might  ask:  what  can  a  small  country  like 
Slovakia do? Slovakia has gone from being a recipient 
of development assistance to being a donor — a small 
and  humble  donor,  but  willing  to  bear  our  part  of 
responsibility  for  global  development.  We  have  been 
providing development assistance since 2003. Over the 
past  20  years,  we  have  undergone  several  transition 
periods, during which we have learned how important it 
is to rely on our own resources, combined with foreign 
aid. We have learned that knowledge-sharing is one of 
the most effective instruments that may serve the needs 
of any country going through a political and economic 
transition or transformation.
Global  trends  in  demography,  migration,  climate 
and economy are affecting every single country, every 
single  region,  every  single  nation  and  every  single 
human  individual.  No  one  remains  unaffected,  and 
no  one  should  be  left  out  of  the  process  of  defining, 
adopting  and  implementing  measures  to  make  our 
planet  a  nice  place  to  live  in  the  twenty-first  century 
and beyond.
Mrs. Robl (United States of America): This sixth 
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development 
is being convened at a time of significant change and 
dynamism in the global development environment. We 
have fresh opportunities to think about the best ways to 
mobilize knowledge, innovation and resources to move 
people out of extreme poverty and generate inclusive, 
sustained,  job-rich  growth  for  all  our  economies.  Let 
me briefly highlight a few themes.
First, our ability to accelerate the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to set an 
ambitious development agenda after 2015 will depend 
on our mobilizing a wide range of financial flows for 
development and getting the most development impact 
out of them.
Official development assistance (ODA) will remain 
crucial, particularly for sectors and countries for which 
ODA remains essential in the drive to eradicate extreme 
poverty.  That  is  why  the  United  States  disbursed 
over $30 billion in ODA in 2012, with a strong focus 
on  least  developed  countries.  That  is  why  we  have 
invested nearly $9 billion a year to fight global disease, 
particularly  working  with  partners  to  achieve  an 
AIDS-free generation. That is also what underpins our 
investments  in  food  security  through  Feed  the  Future 
and in energy through Sustainable Energy for All and 
Power Africa. All of those testify to the United States’ 
commitment  to  target  official  development  assistance 
in a catalytic way to achieve development results that 
last.
But  ODA  is  increasingly  only  a  small  part  of  the 
development story, and we need to give fresh thought 
to ways to boost private investment and help countries 
strengthen their domestic revenue streams. The number 
of  countries  for  which  ODA  is  the  dominant  source 
of  international  resources  has  dropped  precipitously 
since 1990, by some estimates from 95 to 43 countries. 
Those  countries  for  which  foreign  direct  investment 
is  the  dominant  international  financial  flow  have 
meanwhile doubled to approximately 50 countries, and 
more  and  more  countries  have  set  goals  for  reducing 
or eliminating dependence on development assistance.
total 
international  resource  flows  to  developing  countries, 
and  domestic  resource  flows  annually  far  outstrip 
international flows. International flows themselves are 
now dominated by private investment and remittances. 
Trade  flows,  which  also  have  enormous  potential  to 
lessen  poverty  and  improve  people’s  well-being,  have 
also  expanded,  and  trade  volume  among  developing 
countries has significantly increased.
Today,  ODA 
represents  a 
fraction  of 
That is all good news. Of course, the optimal mix 
of resource and trade flows will vary quite significantly 
2/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
by  country,  but  these  trends  mean  that  we  have  an 
incredible  opportunity  to  be  more  thoughtful  and 
sophisticated in thinking about the role of international 
and domestic capital trade flows and of the optimal mix 
of  public  and  private  investment  for  ending  extreme 
poverty  and  achieving  many  of  the  development 
outcomes that are collective priorities.
the  various  types  of  financing  for  real  and  sustained 
development progress. As President Obama noted in his 
State of the Union address earlier this year, we have a 
historic opportunity to eradicate extreme poverty in the 
next two decades. Realizing that opportunity will take 
the concerted effort of all, and we should leave no stone 
unturned.
Secondly, we have seen substantial transformation 
in  the  development  landscape  in  the  growing  role  of 
developing  countries  on  the  global  stage.  Countries 
previously reliant on assistance to reduce poverty and 
improve  basic  services  today  have  economies  that 
are  essential  drivers  of  global  economic  growth.  The 
relationship  between  developed  and  developing  is 
more complex than ever before, with new potential for 
mutually beneficial growth and investment.
Thirdly, we have a new and widespread recognition 
that  twenty-first-century  development  needs  to  be 
sustainable.  We  are  encouraged  by  and  welcome 
the  robust  global  dialogue  now  under  way  on  the 
social,  economic  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
development,  particularly  in  relation  to  the  post-2015 
agenda.  Secretary  Kerry  noted  in  his  recent  address 
to  the  General  Assembly  that  our  efforts  to  improve 
people’s  lives  around  the  world  mean  little  if  we  let 
the  planet  itself  fall  into  disrepair.  That  is  why  we 
must  strive  for  a  development  agenda  that  recognizes 
that  fighting  poverty,  combating  discrimination  and 
safeguarding  our  environment  are  absolutely  linked 
together and are not separate endeavours.
Fourthly, we have a far-sighted foundation on which 
to build in the form of the Monterrey Consensus and the 
Doha Declaration. The process launched at Monterrey 
foresaw  and  accounted  for  many  of  the  changing 
dynamics and resource flows, and we should build on 
those foundations as we go forward. We look forward to 
the  contribution  of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing 
and to productive discussions on aid transparency and 
effectiveness  in  the  Paris/Accra/Busan  work  stream 
in  order  to  help  us  identify  and  fill  concrete  gaps. 
We  will  also  look  towards  organizations  such  as  the 
United Nations, the World Trade Organization and the 
international financial institutions to draw on their core 
competencies and best ideas to inform our debate.
The United States welcomes a dynamic and robust 
dialogue  on  financing  and  resource  issues  going 
forward.  That  needs  to  be  informed  by  evidence  of 
how the world is changing and must seek to optimize 
Mr.  Gave  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  France 
aligns itself with the statement delivered earlier by the 
European Union (see A/68/PV.29).
This  sixth  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing 
for  Development  is  of  particular  importance,  for  it 
takes  place  at  the  start  of  the  sixty-eighth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  where  our  work  will  focus  on 
reviewing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
and  on  the  post-2015  agenda.  To  eradicate  poverty 
and ensure sustainable development, the international 
community  must  define  an  ambitious  implementation 
strategy that adapts the Monterrey Consensus and the 
Doha  Declaration  for  the  renewal  of  the  development 
paradigm. For France, this evolution will take place in 
five main areas.
First, France is dedicated to maintaining the public 
aid that comes from traditional donors, who must play 
a central role in catalysing the mobilization of financial 
resources, with priority for the least developed countries. 
The world has changed since 2002. New arrangements 
have  been  imposed  on  the  global  economy,  new 
financial flows have arisen and certain challenges have 
become increasingly urgent . I am thinking, of course, 
of the fight against climate change and the protection 
of biodiversity. Our financing for development strategy 
must therefore adapt to those changes through a global 
partnership 
together  all  development 
stakeholders, whether they are public or private, local 
or international. France therefore supports the widening 
of the circle of donors, which can lead, for example, to 
South-South  cooperation  projects  and  greater  sharing 
of knowledge among countries with different levels of 
development.
that  brings 
Secondly, France places at the centre of financing for 
development the mobilization of the national resources 
of developing countries, in the service of an endogenous 
development and with respect for national ownership. 
That  ownership  requires  strengthening  national  fiscal 
capacities and combating illicit financial flows, which 
greatly  hinder  development  in  many  countries.  The 
transparency and efficiency of national tax systems are 
therefore decisive. The universalization of commitment 
13-50232
3/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
should  go  hand  in  hand  with  differentiation,  so  that 
everyone  contributes  fairly  and  in  accordance  with 
their own resources.
Thirdly,  mobilizing  the  private  sector  is  also 
essential.  Building  a  sustainable  world 
requires 
involving  private-sector  actors  in  the  implementation 
of development goals because, on the one hand, private 
financing  constitutes  the  majority  of  global  financial 
flows and, on the other hand, public-private partnerships 
enable  the  pooling  of  funds  and  complementary 
expertise.
financing 
allows 
Fourthly, 
innovative 
the 
mobilization  of  additional  sources  of  financing  for 
official  development  assistance.  The  resources  from 
innovative  financing  sources  can  also  be  used  more 
efficiently  because  programmes  respond 
local 
needs and are managed in the context of partnerships 
the  public  sector,  non-governmental 
that 
involve 
organizations, 
international  organizations  and 
the 
private  sector.  France  calls  on 
international 
community to continue its efforts to change the scales of 
existing initiatives in the area of   innovative financing. 
Naturally, nothing in that area should be imposed. It is 
for each State to freely choose a mechanism that suits it 
from the menu of options.
to 
the 
Fifthly,  the  urgent  need  to  sustainably  eradicate 
poverty  requires  an  increasingly  higher  level  of 
efficiency  and  accountability  in  terms  of  financial 
development policies. The broad range of means that we 
will put at the service of sustainable development must 
be used coherently and in a coordinated manner, guided 
by the principles of the Busan Partnership for Effective 
Development Cooperation. France therefore renews its 
commitment to less fragmented, more transparent and 
result-oriented aid.
in 
While  the  session  that  is  opening  is  decisive  for 
deliberations  on  financing  for  development,  France 
will  promote  its  approach  in  various  relevant  bodies. 
In particular, it aims to put forward its comprehensive, 
renewed  and 
integrated  vision  of  financing  for 
development 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing, 
which will submit a report to the General Assembly in 
September 2014. We also believe that a new conference 
to follow up the Monterrey Conference is the pertinent 
space  for  defining  —  in  particular  on  the  basis  of 
the  report  of  the  Committee  of  Experts  —  the  new 
financial  compact,  which  should  be  finalized  in  time 
to  implement  the  new  development  agenda.  We  will 
participate  in  General  Assembly  deliberations  on  this 
issue in the coming weeks.
Financing  sustainable  development  is  a  common 
responsibility  for  all.  France  welcomes  the  fact  that 
the international community agrees on the need for a 
single agenda, which closely links poverty eradication 
and sustainable development. That convergence is also 
necessary in the means of implementation. Getting to 
that point is our duty, but it is also our in our interest, for 
it involves the security and stability of our development 
models.
Mr.  Lennartsson  (Sweden ):  Sweden  aligns  itself 
with the statement made by the observer of the European 
Union earlier today (see A/68/PV.29).
The  Monterrey  Consensus,  as  reaffirmed  by  the 
follow-up conference in Doha, is a landmark agreement 
on  financing  for  development.  The  strength  of  this 
global  partnership  lies  in  its  holistic  approach.  Today 
I  would  like  to  highlight  three  key  elements  of  that 
partnership, which the international community needs 
in order to address the achievement of internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  and  to  ensure  the  successful 
implementation of the post-2015 development agenda.
First is the issue of mutual accountability. Official 
development assistance (ODA) continues to be critical 
as a source of financing for development, in particular 
for  the  least  developed  countries,  as  well  as  for 
supporting the efforts to tackle the specific development 
challenges of countries in a fragile state or in conflict 
situations. Sweden continues to uphold the 1 per cent 
of gross national income (GNI) allocated to ODA. We 
call on donor countries that have not yet lived up to the 
ODA commitment of 0.7 per cent of GNI to intensify 
their efforts to do so.
to  ensure 
Stakeholders  also  need 
that  our 
development  cooperation  efforts  are  results-oriented, 
sustainable,  transparent  and  accountable.  Transparent 
processes,  outcome-oriented  programming,  results-
based management, effective monitoring and thorough 
follow-up  are  key  to  achieving  concrete  development 
results on the ground for women, men, girls and boys.
The  second  key  issue  is  responsible  policies. 
The  mobilization  of  domestic  resources  is  the  most 
important  component  of  financing  for  development. 
Each country must take the primary responsibility for 
its own development. Each country also must take the 
primary responsibility for the provision of public goods 
4/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
towards 
their  citizens 
and fair distribution of wealth. A rights-based approach 
to  national  development  is  key.  The  accountability 
of  Governments 
requires 
good  governance  and  fair,  effective  and  efficient  tax 
systems. Here we see a role for the United Nations to 
use its capacity-building functions to assist developing 
countries in broadening their tax base and developing 
policies for the equitable and responsible allocation of 
resources.
Illegal outflows of capital from developing countries 
are  estimated  to  be  many  times  greater  than  the  total 
development assistance. Combating such illicit outflows 
could make a major contribution to freeing up resources 
for  investments  in  development.  Moreover,  increased 
efforts are needed in the fight against corruption. The 
international financial institutions will be particularly 
important  in  that  regard,  and  United  Nations  bodies 
play an active role through general awareness-raising, 
as  well  as  through  instruments  such  as  the  United 
Nations Convention against Corruption and the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime.
Finally, looking ahead, we are in the middle of the 
world’s  largest  conversation:  the  conversation  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  While  we  place  much 
emphasis on the “what”, we must not forget the “how”. 
Here, Sweden sees a direct link between the new agenda 
and financing for development. A responsible post-2015 
development agenda will require an in-depth discussion 
on  financing.  Mutual  accountability  and  responsible 
policies constitute important points of departure.
Coherence  and  coordination  among  institutions 
and processes are crucial. The United Nations and the 
international financial institutions have complementary 
mandates, and we encourage them to coordinate their 
efforts more effectively so as to improve the consistency 
of global governance for development.
The  changing  development  landscape  comprises 
new challenges, new development instruments and new 
development  actors.  Global,  regional  and  subregional 
integration efforts such as South-South and triangular 
cooperation 
initiatives  should  be  supported.  The 
role  of  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in  global 
development should be further enhanced.
and  innovative  power  will  be  crucial.  Joint  efforts 
characterized  by  mutual  accountability,  national 
ownership,  inclusive  partnerships  and  a  focus  on 
development results on the ground will determine the 
success of the new development agenda.
Mr.  Thoms  (Germany):  Let  me  start  by  aligning 
myself  with  the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union  and  its  member  States  (see  A/68/
PV.29).
Over the next two years all development partners 
will  have  to  step  up  efforts  towards  the  achievement 
of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Various 
processes  have  started  that  are  aimed  at  formulating 
a  single,  coherent  and  universally  applicable  new 
agenda  for  sustainable  development  beyond  2015.  In 
that respect, it is of utmost importance to streamline all 
international processes that deal with financing issues. 
It will also be vital that the post-2015 goals track and 
the financing track — while remaining separate — be 
well coordinated. That implies that the discussions on 
financing and the means of implementation at this point 
in time should take place first and foremost under the 
financing track.
framework 
There  is  a  need  for  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
to  evolve  into  a  post-2015  financing  for  sustainable 
development 
the  mobilization  of 
financial  resources  in  support  of  the  future  post-2015 
agenda for sustainable development. What was agreed 
already  in  Monterrey  —  the  primary  importance  of 
mobilizing  domestic  resources  —  will  remain  valid 
also for the post-2015 process.
for 
Germany  supports  its  partner  countries  in  their 
efforts  to  reform  their  tax  systems,  strengthen  their 
tax  administrations  and  follow  the  principles  of 
good  financial-governance  rules,  including  in  the 
development of local financial markets. Moreover, we 
strongly back joint efforts to improve tax cooperation 
and  to  combat  corruption,  illegal  capital  flows,  tax 
evasion  and  excessive  tax-avoidance  schemes.  We 
welcome the outcome of this year’s Group of Eight and 
Group  of  20  Summits,  in  particular  the  Lough  Erne 
Declaration,  including  the  remarks  on  base  erosion 
and  profit-shifting  and  the  automatic  exchange  of 
information.
The private sector plays a crucial role in mobilizing 
resources for development, creating jobs and thinking 
innovatively.  Enhanced  cooperation  with  the  private 
sector  and  better  use  of  its  expertise,  resources 
Our  support  for  private-sector  development  seeks 
to improve the business and investment climate in order 
to  promote  private  investments,  generate  economic 
growth and broaden the tax base. Resilient and inclusive 
13-50232
5/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
financial  systems  and  markets  are  a  vital  component 
in  those  efforts  to  mobilize  domestic  resources.  We 
also need to strengthen private households’ abilities to 
improve  their  own  living  conditions,  and  we  need  to 
mobilize domestic and international private investments 
for  sustainable  development.  Yet,  in  addition  to  that, 
all  countries  are  committed  to  provide  —  according 
to their means — external official financial support to 
those  countries  that  cannot  meet  all  their  sustainable 
development needs alone, as well as to contribute to the 
provision of global public goods. The Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing  will  mark  an  important  milestone  in  that 
process.
Germany  is  actively  involved  in  the  work  of  the 
Committee. We and the German expert, Mr. Kloppenburg 
of  KfW  Development  Bank,  are  committed 
to 
supporting the Committee to deliver focused, innovative 
and  action-oriented  recommendations  in  its  report  to 
the Secretary-General. We are taking part in a crucial 
process  of  defining  common  ground  for  a  liveable 
world. Germany will constructively support the process 
towards the creation of a financing framework for the 
post-2015  agenda  for  sustainable  development  that 
allows all people to live in the “The future we want”.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.29).
We are facing a complex global economic situation. 
While the overall situation is looking up, the negative 
effects of the international financial crisis linger on, and 
there is still a long way to go before the global economy 
fully  recovers.  Such  a  complex  situation  has  posed 
numerous  challenges  to  international  development 
cooperation, such as declining political will, inadequate 
resources for development and the deterioration of the 
development  environment,  and  has  further  brought  to 
the fore the difficulties of financing for development. 
Against  such  a  backdrop,  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Financing  for  Development  is  of  particularly  great 
importance.  I  hope  that  this  meeting  will  help  garner 
political will and mobilize resources so as to advance 
international cooperation in financing for development.
to 
development.  Ensuring 
the 
socioeconomic  development  of  developing  countries 
will  help  with  their  development,  which  in  turn  will 
advance  the  development  and  prosperity  of  the  whole 
Steady  and  adequate 
financing 
is  key 
such 
support 
for 
world.  In  view  of  that,  the  international  community 
should take a holistic and long-term view of the question 
of financing for development; forge political will at the 
global, regional and national levels; build and improve 
a  global  development  partnership  characterized  by 
equality,  mutual  benefit  and  win-win  results;  and 
mobilize resources to achieve all the development goals.
In  that  respect,  the  United  Nations  should  play  a 
leading role. China proposes that efforts be made in the 
following areas.
First,  strong,  sustainable  and  balanced  growth  of 
the  world  economy  should  be  promoted.  Promoting 
global economic recovery and growth and realizing the 
common  development  and  prosperity  of  all  countries 
are the fundamental objectives and tasks of cooperation 
on  financing  for  development.  Governments  should 
adopt  responsible  macroeconomic  policies,  engage 
in  timely  communication  and  coordination  and  work 
together to build a world economy in which countries 
find  innovative  ways  to  promote  development  and  in 
which the growth of all countries is interlinked and their 
interests are integrated. In that way, the development of 
one country will stimulate growth in others and produce 
positive instead of negative spillover effects. Countries 
should work together to maintain and develop an open 
economy and make integrated use of international and 
domestic markets and resources.
Secondly, the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha 
Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development  should 
be  effectively 
implemented.  Official  development 
assistance (ODA) represents an important cornerstone 
of international development cooperation and the main 
source  of  financing  for  many  developing  countries. 
Developed  countries  should  shoulder  the  primary 
responsibility  for  financing  for  development  and 
effectively  fulfil  the  commitment  of  devoting  0.7  per 
cent of their gross national income to ODA. Developing 
countries  should  continue  to  strengthen  South-South 
cooperation,  that  is,  unite  and  engage  in  mutual  help 
and share development experience so as to supplement 
common 
North-South 
development. 
institutions 
should  mobilize  and  coordinate  all  possible  resources 
so  as  to  increase  input  in  the  field  of  development. 
China believes that efforts should be scaled up to build 
the follow-up mechanism of the Monterrey Consensus 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  and  that  the  follow-up  international 
conference on financing for development to review the 
cooperation 
International 
financial 
achieve 
and 
6/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
implementation of the Monterrey Consensus should be 
held at an early date.
Thirdly,  global  economic  governance  should  be 
improved. Greater efforts are needed to build a fair, open 
and orderly international economic environment so as 
to expand cooperation and achieve win-win results. It 
is necessary to deepen the reform of the international 
financial system, increase the representation and voice of 
emerging markets and developing countries, strengthen 
the  regulation  of  international  financial  markets  and 
build a stable and risk-resistant international monetary 
system.  We  should  safeguard  a  multilateral  trade 
system that is free, open and non-discriminatory, and 
explore ways to improve rules on global investment and 
guide the rational flow of global development capital, 
leading to a more effective distribution of development 
resources. More should be done to cancel the debts of 
developing  countries  and  expand  their  market  access, 
provide them with financial support on a priority basis, 
and encourage and support their capacity-building.
formulating 
Fourthly,  financing  for  sustainable  development 
should be discussed within the framework of financing 
for  development.  At  present  and  for  the  foreseeable 
future,  international  development  cooperation  will 
focus  on  implementing  the  outcome  document  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  and 
the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  with  financing  for 
development and financing for sustainable development 
as the core components. The international community 
should, on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of 
the amount of capital needed by developing countries in 
order to realize the internationally agreed development 
goals  and  sustainable  development,  explore  ways  to 
finance  sustainable  development  in  accordance  with 
the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  with  the  framework 
and  principles  of  financing  for  development,  and 
further  clarify  the  relationship  between  financing  for 
development and financing for sustainable development. 
With the Intergovernmental Committee of Experts on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing  having  started 
its work in August, we hope that it will soon develop 
options  for  an  effective  financing  for  sustainable 
development strategy.
China  is  an  active  participant  in  and  practitioner 
of  international  financing  for  development.  Since  we 
assigned development a high priority, we have steadily 
pushed  forward  reform,  opened  up  to  the  outside 
world and achieved stable and relatively fast economic 
growth.  While  pursuing  its  own  development,  China 
has also assisted other developing countries to the best 
of its ability. Since 2000, China has provided assistance 
to over 120 developing countries within the framework 
of  South-South  cooperation,  built  more  than  200 
schools  and  over  30  hospitals  and  malaria-prevention 
and  treatment  centres,  and  trained  more  than  80,000 
people in various skill categories.
We are now in the process of implementing initiatives 
aimed at helping developing countries improve people’s 
lives,  as  well  as  cancelling  debts,  strengthening 
financial, economic, trade and agricultural cooperation 
and providing human resources training.
During  his  visit  to  Africa  last  March,  China’s 
President  Xi  announced  further  initiatives  in  support 
of  Africa’s  development,  including  honouring  the 
commitment to providing loans to Africa in the amount 
of  $20  billion  within  three  years,  thereby  translating 
into  reality  the  partnership  for  transnational  and 
transregional  infrastructure  development  in  Africa, 
implementing  the  African  Talents  Programme  and 
increasing technology transfer to and experience-sharing 
with Africa.
China stands ready to continue to take an active part 
in international financing for development to promote 
the  comprehensive  implementation  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration on Financing for 
Development,  thereby  contributing  to  international 
development cooperation.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): At the outset, I would like 
to  congratulate  the  President  for  convening  the  sixth 
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development, 
which is focusing on the status of implementation and 
future  tasks  of  the  outcomes  of  Monterrey,  Doha  and 
other major United Nations conferences and summits. 
Malaysia  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Fiji  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.29). I 
also wish to thank the Secretary-General for the timely 
and updated report on the same topic (A/68/357), which 
has  given  us  insight  into  the  current  state  of  global 
financing for development.
The  report  highlighted  some  major  concerns 
that  are  shared  by  my  delegation.  As  a  developing 
country  that  had  to  endure  the  global  financial  crisis 
in  2008,  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  the  current 
progress  made  by  the  international  community  in 
addressing development issues is inadequate. Malaysia 
13-50232
7/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
is  concerned  at  the  fact  that  official  development 
assistance (ODA) to the developing countries has fallen 
for  two  consecutive  years.  ODA  remains  critical  for 
countries  with  insufficient  funds  for  development,  in 
particular  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  and 
countries that have recently graduated from the LDCs. 
There are commitments that have been agreed to, but 
have  yet  to  be  fulfilled.  Such  funds  would  be  a  great 
help for those countries in achieving their Millennium 
Development Goals.
investment 
The Monterrey Consensus stressed the importance 
of  private  international  capital  flows,  particularly 
foreign  direct 
(FDI).  Malaysia,  as 
an  advanced  developing  nation,  relies  on  FDI  to 
strengthen  its  capital  market,  which  in  turn  drives 
national  development  efforts.  Despite  the  growing 
needs  for  investment  to  finance  development,  long-
term  investment  by  international  investors  appears  to 
be declining. Globally, FDI decreased by around 18 per 
cent  from  2011  to  2012.  Net  FDI  flows  to  developing 
countries are estimated to have fallen by around 4 per 
cent, from $437 billion in 2011 to $419 billion in 2012. 
In  addition,  a  significant  portion  of  FDI  is  invested 
in  short-term  investments,  which  could  reverse  more 
quickly  than  expected  in  an  uncertain  economic  and 
financial climate.
The  weakening  of  the  major  Asian  currencies, 
including the Malaysian ringgit, against major-economy 
currencies  in  recent  weeks  is  clear  evidence  of  the 
risks of short-term investment to national development 
efforts. The trend is mainly attributed to the widespread 
capital  withdrawal  from  emerging  Asian  economies 
back to developed nations.
Malaysia remains concerned with the current global 
economic  situation  surrounding  the  European  Union 
and the United States, as well as the recent contagion 
risk  concerning  emerging  economies.  Malaysia  hopes 
that  the  economic  woes  faced  by  developed  countries 
will  not  cause  the  world  to  enter  into  a  new  global 
recession.
Malaysia looks forward to further enhanced trade 
and  investment  relations  between  Malaysia  and  the 
Member States of the United Nations. Malaysia views 
international  trade  as  an  engine  for  development. 
However,  the  recovery  in  world  trade  following  the 
financial crisis lost its momentum in 2012. World trade 
grew by only 2.0 per cent, down from 5.2 per cent in 
2011.  The  deceleration  is  associated  with  weakening 
demand,  in  particular  in  developed  countries.  Many 
Malaysia 
of the trade restrictions introduced in 2008 remain in 
place, and only 19 per cent have so far been eliminated. 
In  that  regard,  a  fair  multilateral  trading  system  is 
essential  to  ensure  sustained  growth  in  global  trade 
and to create new market access and opportunities for 
developing countries.
looks 
the  expeditious 
conclusion of the World Trade Organization Doha Round 
of  multilateral  trade  negotiations.  That  would  help  to 
reduce  further  protectionist  measures  and  contribute 
significantly to a more equitable and inclusive growth.
In  conclusion,  Malaysia  wishes  to  underline  the 
importance  of  the  United  Nations  having  the  central 
role  in  promoting  development  and  implementing  the 
commitments made on financing for development.
forward 
to 
(spoke 
(Mexico) 
Mr.  Escanero 
in  Spanish): 
This  High-level  Dialogue  allows  us  to  highlight  this 
important  political  moment  in  which  we  are  building 
the  collective  agenda  to  advance  towards  equitable 
and  sustainable  development  on  a  global  scale.  In 
particular, it allows us to highlight the importance of 
uniting  our  efforts  to  follow  up  on  Monterrey  and  to 
support  intergovernmental  efforts  to  establish  a  post-
2015 development agenda. In that context, we welcome 
the  initiatives  that  have  emerged  during  the  General 
Assembly  and  through  the  Secretary-General  and 
the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda,  which  have  been  aimed 
at  holding  a  follow-up  conference  on  the  Monterrey 
process.
The spirit of Monterrey must guide our deliberations 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  post-2015  agenda  includes 
specific  actions  and  is  results-oriented.  Monterrey  is 
based  on  three  pillars.  First,  the  vision  of  a  holistic 
agenda  will  allow  us  to  incorporate  efforts  in  all 
areas  involving  financing  for  development.  Secondly, 
a  convergence  of  efforts  must  take  place  among  all 
stakeholders. Thirdly, the United Nations has a key role 
to play as a platform for driving those efforts.
On  this  occasion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  focus 
on a few of the themes from the Monterrey Consensus, 
namely  international  cooperation  for  development. 
My country is fully convinced of the benefits of such 
cooperation.  We  stress  the  key  responsibility  that 
each country has to fulfil its role in development. We 
believe the international community has the means and 
the responsibility to support those efforts. That is why 
we reiterate the call for donor countries to fulfil their 
8/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
pledges  for  official  development  assistance  (ODA), 
especially  to  donate  0.7  per  cent  of  the  donors’  gross 
national income to that end. At the same time, Mexico, 
as a provider of South-South cooperation, will redouble 
its efforts to support the development of equally or less 
developed countries, working in association with other 
countries through triangular cooperation.
In 2011, Mexico adopted a new law on international 
cooperation  that  established  the  Mexican  Agency  for 
International  Development  Cooperation.  It  is  a  clear 
indication  of  our  desire  to  strengthen  cooperation. 
Moreover, in that respect, Mexico is not alone.
Efforts  to  strengthen  international  cooperation 
aimed at the countries of the South must fully bear in 
mind  that  developing  countries  face  major  domestic 
challenges, in particular the fight against poverty and 
inequality.  That  is  why  Mexico  considers  it  essential 
to  recall  the  key  role  of  middle-income  countries 
in  ensuring  effective  cooperation.  Those  countries 
still  have  specific  needs  of  varying  types  in  terms 
of  international  cooperation  and  cooperation  with 
multilateral  agencies.  For  some,  official  development 
assistance flows remain highly important.
Cooperation  directed 
towards  middle-income 
countries  can  also  have  a  significant  multiplier 
effect.  While  such  efforts  can  be  of  direct  assistance 
in  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  they  can  also  lead  to  South-South 
and  triangular  cooperation  involving  lower-income 
countries. In an indirect way, promoting development 
in  middle-income  countries  in  areas  such  as  trade, 
investment and technology transfer, among others, can 
indirectly  benefit  the  less  developed  countries.  With 
respect to ensuring a global impact on well-being, we 
must  consider  our  increasingly  interconnected  world 
and  look  for  ways  to  move  from  simply  providing 
assistance to promoting genuine development in various 
countries.
In support of a truly inclusive international dialogue 
on those issues and in order to significantly strengthen 
our efforts to ensure development, Mexico has assumed 
the  responsibility  of  hosting,  from  15  to  16  April 
2014,  the  first  ministerial  conference  of  the  Global 
Partnership  for  Effective  Development  Cooperation. 
Mexico  considers  it  essential  that  the  first  high-level 
meeting  be  inclusive  and  converge  with  the  broad 
democratic  platform  provided  by  the  United  Nations. 
We  will  attempt  in  particular  to  ensure  that  it  builds 
bridges  and  forges  synergies  with  the  Development 
Cooperation Forum of the Economic and Social Council 
and other major United Nations bodies in developing a 
joint programme of action on equitable and sustainable 
global development.
The road map of the post-2015 development agenda 
has been established. Member States have committed to 
work towards a single agenda and a set of transformative 
goals aimed at fighting poverty and fostering equitable 
and sustainable development.
The outcome document of the Special Event to follow 
up on efforts made towards achieving the MDGs and the 
post-2015 development agenda (resolution 68/6), which 
was held last week, reflected a commitment to develop 
a coherent agenda addressing poverty reduction, human 
rights, economic transformation, social justice and the 
responsible management of the environment. To ensure 
those  efforts,  the  development  agenda  must  focus  on 
lessons learned in terms of the MDGs and international 
agreements  on  economic,  social  and  environmental 
matters,  including,  in  particular,  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development, the Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration.
the 
and 
The  definition  process  that  leads  up  to  the  2015 
summit will be fuelled by related actions, including the 
2014 reports of the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing. As to the latter, there is broad consensus that 
its work must focus on the policy framework contained 
in  the  Monterrey  Consensus.  The  Consensus  and  its 
substantive  platform,  as  well  as  today’s  dialogue  and 
our decision to hold a follow-up meeting, must serve as 
a guide not only in fulfilling our own commitment to 
the process, but in following up the current discussions 
on the post-2015 development agenda.
Ms.  Al-Hadid  (Jordan):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
thank the presidency for convening the sixth High-level 
Dialogue on the important and relevant theme of “The 
Monterrey Consensus, Doha Declaration on Financing 
for  Development  and  related  outcomes  of  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits:  status  of 
implementation and tasks ahead”. My delegation aligns 
itself with the statement delivered by the representative 
of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  (see 
A/68/PV.29)  and  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  entitled  “Follow-up  and  implementation  of 
13-50232
9/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing for Development” (A/68/357).
specify  implementation  methods,  including  financing 
for development.
The  Monterrey  Consensus  sets  out  to  achieve 
coherence  and  consistency  among  the  policies  aimed 
at  supporting  developing  countries  in  their  efforts 
to  realize  the  objectives  set  by  various  international 
conferences  and  summits,  including  the  Millennium 
Summit. It is essential to recognize that, while notions 
of  coherence  and  consistency  may  vary,  they  have 
similar  impacts,  as  incoherent  policies  undermine 
development.
At this time, the international community still faces 
increasingly complex development challenges that have 
revealed  weaknesses  in  the  international  financial 
system  related  to  sustainable  financial  stability  and 
mobilizing 
for  development. 
As  a  consequence,  new  policies  and  international 
frameworks  that  accord  with  the  basic  principle  of 
inclusive  participation  and  support  renewed  global 
partnerships in support of development are required.
resources 
financial 
While  the  quantity  and  effectiveness  of  official 
development  assistance  has  improved  over  the  past 
decade,  downside  risks  remain  elevated  amid  the 
current global economic uncertainty. However, despite 
developments  that  continue  to  give  rise  to  fiscal 
challenges, the commitments made by the international 
community 
to  ensuring 
predictable  development  assistance  and  supporting 
nationally  owned  development  strategies  need  to  be 
re-emphasized.
in  Monterrey  and  Doha 
Furthermore, 
identifying 
to  supplement 
innovative  financing 
mechanisms 
financing 
traditional 
sources by generating additional, sustained and scaled-
up aid delivery to developing countries and promoting 
aid  effectiveness  remains  a  vital  part  of  all  efforts; 
it  requires  a  concerted,  coherent  and  coordinated 
approach  by  Governments,  regional  and  multilateral 
organizations  and  relevant  stakeholders.  Improving 
access to finance will help to foster inclusive growth, 
accelerate  economic  development  and  thus  overcome 
exclusion and inequality.
The  recent  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of 
the  Post-2015  Development 
Eminent  Persons  on 
Agenda contains a positive reference to the importance 
of  finance  in  the  post-2015  development  framework. 
The  framework  must  build  on  an  analysis  of  the 
financing  required  to  achieve  the  established  goals. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  should  clearly 
There is no doubt that trade remains the dynamic 
force  behind  the  growth  of  a  global  economy.  It  is 
important  to  address  progressive  advances  made  in 
strengthening  the  international  trading  system  with 
corresponding  steps 
the  multilateral 
financial  and  monetary  architecture.  We  hope  that 
negotiations on a global trade deal under the World Trade 
Organization Doha Round of talks will move forward 
at the forthcoming ninth Ministerial Conference, due to 
be held in Bali in December 2013.
taken  from 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  hopes 
the 
discussion  here  today  will  contribute  to  a  call  for 
joint international efforts in addressing the challenges 
faced  by  all  of  us  and  that  they  will  renew  the  focus 
on  implementing  our  common  agenda  as  agreed  in 
Monterrey, Doha and at other multilateral forums.
that 
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  associate  myself  with  the 
statement made by Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.29). In addition to that statement, I 
also wish to make a few points.
Everyone  generally  agrees  that  the  worst  of  the 
global  economic  crisis  is  behind  us.  Everything 
indicates  that  we  are  making  a  slow  recovery.  The 
global  economy  is  being  reactivated,  even  though 
the  pace  is  uneven,  depending  on  the  country,  and 
some  challenges  still  remain  that  could  slow  down 
the  recovery.  Therefore,  we  need  to  think  about  how 
to  strengthen  financing  for  development,  which  has 
suffered  as  a  result  of  fiscal  policies  that  have  been 
implemented by many developed countries since 2011 
and  by  a  large  number  of  developing  countries  since 
2013. That is significant.
According to a report issued by the South Centre, 
33  developing  countries  will  be  reducing  their  tax 
budgets  for  the  period  2013-2015,  bringing  them  to 
a  level  that  is  lower  than  2005-2007.  The  primacy  of 
public-sector policies for development requires that we 
facilitate  and  improve  access  to  financing  for  public 
-sector  projects,  especially  when  it  comes  to  fighting 
poverty.  That  is  a  priority  area  in  that  the  structural 
aspects  of  development,  which  have  led  to  the  gap 
between developing and developed countries, are caused 
by  poverty.  Therefore,  public  policy  must  especially 
take into account improving revenue, thereby creating 
decent jobs, which is the key tool in fighting poverty.
10/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
From 
that  perspective, 
infrastructure  projects 
are  different  in  that  they  create  many  jobs  while 
they  are  being  implemented,  as  well  as  short-  and 
long-term  development  opportunities.  Such  projects 
increase access to energy, improve transportation and 
communication,  and  optimize  productive  activities. 
Financing such projects is central to development and 
requires optimizing the use of resources.
In  order  to  optimize  the  financing  of  public 
development  policies,  my  delegation  believes  that 
we  must  fulfil  the  commitments  made  with  regard 
to  official  development  assistance  as  set  out  under 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Secondly,  we 
must  step  up  the  capitalization  of  national,  regional 
and  multilateral  development  banks  and  optimize 
the  financing  they  offer.  Thirdly,  we  must  mobilize 
domestic  resources,  optimizing  tax  collections  and 
reducing  tax  evasion.  Fourthly,  we  must  ensure  the 
creation of a mechanism that deals with sovereign debt 
in an orderly manner. Those debts in certain crises have 
had a direct impact on the capacity of the public sector 
to finance development. In that regard, it is essential to 
neutralize vulture funds, which take advantage of the 
fact that there is no debt-resolution mechanism.
To conclude, I would like to point out that financing 
of  the  private  sector  should  be  complementary  to 
official  financing  and  that  it  should  not  determine 
public development policies.
Mr. Trujillo (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): At the 
outset, I would like to endorse the statement made by 
Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/
PV.29),  stressing  that  we  should  make  progress  on 
commitments  made  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and 
the  Doha  Declaration  of  2008.  As  other  delegations 
have  mentioned,  those  are  basic  agreements,  but 
we  must  go  beyond  them.  In  that  connection,  I  have 
specific  proposals  from  Ecuador,  which  will,  in  the 
framework  of  the  new  global  financial  architecture 
and on a regional basis, contribute decisively, we hope, 
towards multilateral agreements.
In 
the  context  of 
the  new  global  financial 
architecture, we propose creating innovative financing 
mechanisms  for  development.  There  are  the  special 
drawing  rights  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund, 
for example, which are a politically and economically 
viable option and an additional way to ensure financial 
longevity for some sustainable development initiatives 
that  are  being  discussed  here  today.  As  stated  by  the 
Secretary-General and the representative of the Group 
of  77  and  China,  special  drawing  rights  are,  without 
a  doubt,  instruments  that  help  give  financial  systems 
more consistency and coherence.
Another mechanism that has been proposed is the 
Daly-Correa Tax, which is a tax on oil exports and is 
considered to be an environmental levy on the cost of a 
barrel of oil, which could also be applied to other fuels 
that  are  exported,  depending  on  their  impact  on  the 
environment.
We should bear in mind and support the conclusions 
of  the  Commission  for  the  Restructuring  of  the 
Financial System, chaired by Professor Stiglitz in 2008. 
Most here probably remember that report. Today more 
than ever before, we need to transform the situation and 
push for the much-needed reforms that that creditable 
Commission  suggested.  I  am  referring  to  favouring 
regional  monetary  and  financial  agreements  and  to 
supporting  mechanisms  that  have  been  negotiated  to 
deal with sovereign debt. That report also calls on us to 
reflect on the crisis that the dollar and other so-called 
internationally  active  currencies  are  undergoing.  We 
all  hold  those  currencies,  although  they  are  issued  at 
the discretion of a handful of countries. We believe that 
those  ideas  are  innovative,  but  they  require  political 
commitment,  especially  from  countries  in  the  North. 
That  is  where  we  have  a  major  shortcoming  at  the 
moment.
towards  development 
In  addition,  as  part  of  freeing  up  and  directing 
resources 
and  productive 
investment  throughout  the  world,  we  believe  and 
recognize the urgent need, as set out by the International 
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, to bolster 
such settlement processes at the regional level. Within 
that  framework,  it  is  important  that  the  continental 
processing  of  foreign  direct  investment  occur  under 
conditions in which States are not subject to the greedy 
interests of transnational corporations.
At the same time, it is essential to make progress 
towards  reforms  of  the  United  Nations  Commission 
on International Trade Law that would allow a shift in 
direction of financial terms so as to increase the sources 
of financing for sustainable development. We ought to 
recognize that there is a profound asymmetry. The rules 
favour  investors,  and  clearly  within  that  framework, 
businesses  have  sought  intensively  to  maximize  their 
profits at all costs, with the result that they have abused 
the flexibility provided under the current regulations.
13-50232
11/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
An example of the wide range for interpreting the 
investment regulations of the International Centre for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes in a biased way can 
be seen in my country in the Texaco-Chevron case, after 
the firm caused the greatest environmental disaster in 
our history with a spill of more than 68 million cubic 
metres  of  toxic  waste  into  the  Ecuadorian  Amazon. 
We have launched a campaign to address that injustice 
against  Ecuador.  Many  of  our  countries  face  lawsuits 
from  such  corporations.  Investments  that  lead  to 
such  serious  damage  do  not  contribute  in  the  least  to 
development,  and  we  should  not  accept  or,  what  is 
worse, promote them.
It  is  very  important  that  we  work  in  the  context 
of  this  discussion  on  a  campaign  that  inspires  and 
strengthens  regional  agreements  in  order  to  build  a 
world  that  is  more  balanced  and  fair  and  with  fewer 
of the asymmetries that affect us all. We also need to 
respond to the protest and call to redesign the regulations 
at  a  global  level,  block  by  block,  in  a  new  round  of 
renegotiations  on  all  North-South  relationships.  We 
call  for  a  new  regional  financial  architecture  as  an 
instrument that would deepen integration in the areas 
of supranational financial sovereignty and for reforms 
to the monetary and financial system in line with the 
vision  coming  from  the  South.  As  we  have  said,  we 
should  promote  reforms  that  suit  the  identities  of  the 
countries of the South.
The  coordination  of  agreements  among  relatively 
flexible  blocs  is  the  best  means  of  achieving  positive 
results.  The  success  of  such  initiatives  will  lay  the 
groundwork  for  a  political  juncture  where  other 
institutional  agreements  can  promote  a  holistic  and 
stable  new  financial  architecture.  We  must  make 
serious progress on those issues.
In  South  America,  for  example,  we  are  working 
on  a  new  regional  financial  architecture  comprising 
three basic pillars: a new type of development bank, a 
new regional unit of account and a Southern common 
reserve  fund.  We  can  demonstrate  that  they  are 
sustainable monetary and financial initiatives, needed 
in  order  to  respond  to  the  consequences  of  the  deep 
uncertainty and dependency generated by the financial 
and  monetary  system  that  has  been,  unfortunately, 
largely driven by private interests and big capital.
Similarly,  considering  the  fundamental  role  of 
health  in  the  development  of  peoples,  the  action  of 
the  new  type  of  development  bank  in  the  Ecuadorian 
proposal should be aimed at ensuring the people of the 
countries  in  the  region  access  to  drugs  at  affordable 
costs as well as at ensuring the local production of those 
drugs, in particular drugs that combat diseases endemic 
to the region, that have been deemed non-profitable by 
the large transnational pharmaceutical corporations of 
the developed world.
Sovereignty  over  food  and  natural  resources  is 
essential  for  nations.  That  ownership,  however,  has 
typically been limited by speculation in foods by private 
transnational companies. In dealing with that situation, 
there is a clear need to generate a completely new type 
of development bank. We need to have new monetary 
agreements that are pro-development, if we are to realize 
some of the initiatives that perhaps some countries may 
be  familiar  with,  such  as  a  regional  payments  system 
that  is  pro-development  and  favours  trade  flows  and 
production.  There  are  other  components,  such  as  the 
South Fund, which seeks to transform regional central 
banks.
We have heard today about the need to deal with the 
costs of migrants to developed countries. In developing 
countries we are proposing a bank that deals seriously 
with  development  goals,  while  not  moving  away 
from  our  main  goal,  which  is  to  deal  with  stability, 
employment and inflation.
The common reserve fund of the South is directed 
at  promoting  the  financial  stability  and  exchange 
stability  of  member  States  by  designing  instruments 
to  maintain 
international  reserves  at  appropriate 
levels to deal with the impact of crises. The common 
management  of  the  reserves  of  our  countries  would 
allow a turnaround in the sacrifices that the countries 
of  Latin  America  have  made  to  build  reserves  and 
maintain them in the international financial markets in 
the  North,  which  causes  developing  countries  to  lose 
the opportunity to invest in infrastructure. Funds have 
to be freed up so that we can invest in the real economy, 
in railroads, universities, hospitals, ports and the many 
other projects that are needed in our countries. It is very 
difficult to make progress towards a new international 
financial architecture if countries do not also decide to 
work on a new domestic financial architecture.
Finally,  there  is  a  role  to  be  played  by  trade  in 
development, a concept that we agree on, but for that 
the  developed  countries  need  to  ensure  favourable 
conditions for less developed countries. We must take 
into  account  the  fact  that  trade  dependency  and  the 
intra-firm trade with the North is enormous, and with a 
change in the productive system we will gain enormous 
12/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
benefits  through  the  establishment  of  supranational 
spaces  for  food  sovereignty,  energy,  health  and 
knowledge.  The  post-2015  agenda  encourages  us  to 
ensure that those themes will be addressed in order to 
have sustainable financing in the years to come.
term  horizons  and  its  risk  aversion,  particularly  with 
regard  to  infrastructure,  innovation  and  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprise  financing  —  areas  that  are 
vital  for  enhancing  economic  growth  and  the  pace  of 
development.
Mr. Sahebzada Ahmed Khan (Pakistan): We thank 
the  President  for  convening  the  High-level  Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development.  Pakistan  aligns  itself 
with the statement made by the representative of Fiji on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.29). 
We  would,  however,  like  to  make  some  additional 
points in our national capacity.
Pakistan  considers  this  deliberation  on  the  status 
of implementation and the tasks ahead with regard to 
the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration on 
Financing for Development timely. It is also critical to 
link the ongoing discussions on a post-2015 development 
agenda with financing needs.
We have witnessed some progress on the goals set 
at  Monterrey  and  reaffirmed  at  Doha.  The  objectives 
of  sustained  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development  are,  however,  yet  to  be  achieved.  Our 
work  on  establishing  a  fully  inclusive  and  equitable 
global  economic  system  can,  at  best,  be  termed  as  a 
work in progress.
Unfortunately,  official  development  assistance 
(ODA)  remains  short  of  commitments,  and  a  number 
of  developing  countries  have  yet  to  grow  out  of  their 
debt.  The  benefits  of  international  trade  and  capital 
flows  are  still  to  be  experienced  by  all  developing 
countries,  especially,  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs). Access to development financing has become 
a serious challenge for developing countries in today’s 
grim world economic situation.
We would like to contribute four points to today’s 
discourse.
First,  inclusive  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development  cannot  be  achieved  without  sound 
domestic  socioeconomic  policies,  domestic  resource 
mobilization and good governance.
Secondly, a global economy that provides equitable 
opportunities  to  all  countries,  large  or  small,  least 
developed or emerging, small islands or landlocked, is 
an imperative for creating a better future for the people 
of the world.
Thirdly, it is crucial to design policies that enable 
the  private  sector  to  overcome  its  penchant  for  short-
Fourthly, we are pleased that the Intergovernmental 
Committee of Experts on Sustainable Development has 
started its work. We are also supportive of the climate 
financing track. We hope that those deliberations will 
lead to an integrated and coherent financing framework, 
including for the post-2015 development agenda.
The  Government  of  Pakistan  is  committed  to 
bringing prosperity to the people of Pakistan. We are 
correcting structural imbalances, encouraging domestic 
resource  mobilization,  improving  revenue  collection 
and strengthening partnerships with the private sector. 
If we are sincere and focused in our discourse today, I 
would ask the world to join with us as we seek enhanced 
trade  for  Pakistan,  including  investment  and  strong 
economic partnerships.
Lastly,  we  urge  the  United  Nations,  given  its 
unquestioned  legitimacy  and  representative  character, 
to continue to lead efforts to foster a spirit of genuine 
partnership.
Ms.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Fiji, Benin and Belize, who spoke on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the least developed 
countries  (LDCs),  and  the  small  island  developing 
States (SIDS), respectively (see A/68/PV.29).
My delegation welcomes this High-level Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development.  Like  others  who  have 
spoken before me, I would like to say that this high-level 
meeting is timely as we take stock of the implementation 
of the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration 
on Financing for Development. The impact of the global 
financial  crisis  and  climate  change  is  undermining 
our  global  time-bound  social  and  development  goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
As we look at financing for development, the post-
2015  development  agenda  offers  us  an  opportunity 
to  change  the  way  we  do  business.  In  that  regard, 
Solomon  Islands  seeks  a  new  spirit  of  partnership 
that will reform the global economic architecture. We 
note that this year, under the leadership of the United 
Nations Development Programme, the United Nations 
Development Assistance Framework for the Pacific for 
the period 2013-2017 was launched. It covers 14 Pacific 
13-50232
13/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
countries and territories. We note, in that regard, that 
the principle of one size fits all cannot be applied. We 
call for respect and for recognition of the special and 
unique  circumstances  of  countries  in  the  region.  We 
ask that financing be aligned with national sustainable 
development  strategies.  Country  ownership  must 
remain a foundation for any cooperation or programme.
Next  year,  the  United  Nations  will  hold  the 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States  to  eradicate  poverty  and  build  resilience.  The 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  are  calling  for 
genuine and durable partnerships to address the unique 
sustainable development challenges faced by them. That 
means  an  enhanced  implementation  of  the  Barbados 
Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy.
living 
The  means  of  implementation  must  remain  the 
cornerstone  of  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development  efforts  for  many 
in  extreme 
poverty. The fact is that many LDCs will not meet the 
MDGs by 2015. The 2011-2020 Istanbul Programme of 
Action for the LDCs looks beyond 2015 and is a North-
South,  South-South  and  triangular  partnership  with 
the  aim  of  graduating  50  per  cent  of  LDCs  from  that 
status  within  a  10-year  period.  That  is  an  ambitious 
and achievable goal, if all international support pledges 
are honoured and invested in productive sectors of the 
LDCs’ economies.
We  need  to  ensure  that  official  development 
assistance remains predictable and sufficient, in order 
to  allow  for  LDC  and  SIDS  economies,  in  particular, 
to  make  the  necessary  transformation  and  trigger 
economic take-off. It also means their integration into 
the post-2015 development agenda.
With  regard  to  financing  for  climate  change, 
funds  pledged  must  be  managed  and  distributed  in 
a  transparent  and  accountable  manner.  We  remain 
concerned  that  the  current  climate-change  financial 
mechanisms remain empty shells with no funds to make 
them operational. We know that the distribution of aid 
for trade is skewed to a few countries, which was evident 
in the Programme for Scaling-Up Renewable Energy in 
Low-Income  Countries  managed  by  the  World  Bank. 
The  voice  and  participation  of  LDCs  and  SIDS  must 
be recognized and represented, including clarity in the 
allocation  of  funds  with  a  special  window  for  LDCs. 
That  means  that  reform  of  the  international  financial 
and  economic  system  is  critical  to  ensuring  that  the 
system  is  inclusive,  representative  and  accountable  to 
all  Member  States  when  dealing  with  the  impact  of 
financial and economic crises, especially with respect 
to vulnerable countries.
Trade  remains  the  engine  of  growth  and  is  a  key 
component  in  poverty  eradication  and  employment 
creation.  Unfortunately,  the  LDCs’  share  of  global 
trade remains around 1 per cent since the adoption of 
the  Monterrey  Consensus.  We  are  deeply  concerned 
over  the  lack  of  will  to  conclude  the  Doha  Round,  as 
LDCs continue to be deprived of the provisions of the 
World  Trade  Organization’s  Hong  Kong  Ministerial 
Declaration,  Annex  F,  providing  for  duty-free  and 
quota-free  market  access  for  LDC  products  and 
services. We hope that the Bali Ministerial Conference 
on the Doha Round on trade in December will have a 
favourable outcome.
Enhancing  the  productive  capacities  critical  for 
nation-building  in  post-conflict  countries,  especially 
the  development  component  for  sustaining  peace 
and  development  investment,  must  remain  central  to 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  initiatives  in  order 
to  ensure  better  aid  coordination  in  post-conflict  and 
conflict-affected countries.
My  delegation  would  like  to  put  forward  some 
suggestions  as  we  look  at  financing  for  development 
beyond 2015.
First, dedicated financial resources and technology 
transfer  to  address  supply-side  constraints,  mainly 
affecting  developing  countries,  especially  LDCs  and 
SIDS, should be put in place. Secondly, trade in goods 
and services should be facilitated so as to include the 
movement  of  natural  persons  for  migrant  work,  and 
the cost of remittance transactions should be reduced. 
Thirdly, aid for trade should be operationalized so as to 
directly support national development efforts to ensure 
the sustainability of trade in the productive sectors and 
accelerate  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  especially  for 
LDCs and SIDS. Fourthly, all trade-distorting measures 
should be eliminated. Fifthly, the debt of LDCs should 
be cancelled or converted into sustainable development 
programmes.
In  closing, 
the  outcome  of 
today’s  meeting 
must  enhance  financing  for  development,  identify 
financing gaps within existing sustainable development 
frameworks,  and  recognize  the  special  situation  of 
LDCs and SIDS as we move forward in considering the 
post-2015 development agenda.
Ms. Rambally (Saint Lucia): Saint Lucia is grateful 
for  the  opportunity  to  add  its  voice  to  this  important 
14/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development. 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Fiji, on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China, and of Saint Kitts and Nevis, on behalf of the 
Caribbean Community (see A/68/PV.29).
We  have  arrived  at  this  sixth  Dialogue  through 
a  whirl  of  financial  and  economic  crises  that  have 
left  both  developed  and  developing  countries  beset 
by  a  range  of  social  and  economic  challenges  and 
have  placed  small  and  vulnerable  developing  States 
in  a  precarious  position.  We  also  find  ourselves  at 
an  extremely  critical  juncture  as  we  work  actively  to 
set  the  stage  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
The  background  against  which  we  have  convened 
must  serve  as  the  foundation  for  our  examination  of 
the  development  cooperation  landscape,  and  a  lens 
through which we highlight the challenges that must be 
addressed if developing countries are to move in earnest 
towards the achievement of the internationally agreed-
on  development  goals,  particularly  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
In  that  context,  Saint  Lucia  wishes  to  reiterate 
Caribbean  Community’s  call  for  the  international 
community, the United Nations development system and 
the  international  financial  institutions  to  take  a  more 
systematic  approach  to  dealing  with  the  development 
needs  of  developing  countries  characterized  as 
middle-income  countries,  with  the  goal  of  providing 
them with increased access to concessionary financing. 
Such  an  approach  would  serve  to  mitigate  further 
erosion of the development gains we have made to date, 
by alleviating the unstable economic situation in which 
small,  vulnerable,  highly  indebted  middle-income 
States, like Saint Lucia, have found themselves.
Saint  Lucia  recognizes  that,  in  our  efforts  to 
mobilize  international  resources  for  development,  it 
is  vital  that  we  adopt  new  and  innovative  approaches 
and  work  closely  with  our  partners  to  that  end.  In 
that  light,  we  have  committed  to  the  financing-for-
development  process,  with  direct  participation  in 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable Development Financing.
The Monterrey Consensus and its reaffirmation in 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development 
have  provided 
international 
development  cooperation.  Over  the  next  few  days,  as 
we discuss the status of their implementation and the 
task  ahead,  one  thing  is  clear,  namely,  that  the  way 
forward lies in the political will to cooperate.
framework 
a 
for 
This Dialogue provides a meaningful opportunity 
for all actors in the global partnership for development 
to  engage  with  the  goal  of  summoning  the  political 
will needed to accelerate and strengthen commitments 
made.  True  development  cooperation  ensures  that 
commitments made will be commitments kept.
Mr. Yamazaki (Japan):  This  High-level  Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development  is  very  timely,  since 
through our two-day discussion the follow-up process 
to the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration 
on Financing for Development can be properly fed into 
deliberations  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
particularly  the  discussion  on  what  will  succeed 
Millennium Development Goal (MDG) number 8.
the 
The  comprehensive  character  of 
report 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  Monterrey,  Mexico,  and 
the  Doha 
Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development:  outcome 
document, which in their six or seven chapters discuss 
various modalities of development finance, beginning 
with  domestic  resources,  makes  them,  in  our  view,  a 
very good basis for a future post-MDG 8, and another 
reason why today’s Dialogue is important. Of course, 
we will have to go further than Monterrey and Doha.
Reflecting  on  the  changing  landscape  around 
development cooperation in today’s world, my delegation 
would  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  not  only  of 
official development assistance (ODA) commitments but 
also of various other financial resources. Development 
finance in the future will have to involve all the various 
actors in development cooperation, including emerging 
economies,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society.  Their 
finances and human resources should be maximized in 
terms of both quantity and quality.
Financing  for  development  has  long  been  an 
essential  tool  for  attaining  one  of  the  fundamental 
goals of the United Nations, namely, promoting social 
progress and better standards of living in larger freedom. 
While donor countries should therefore remain firmly 
dedicated to meeting their commitments on providing 
ODA  and  other  assistance,  more  coordinated  action 
on  the  part  of  all  development  actors  is  essential. 
Furthermore, innovative mechanisms for financing for 
development deserve more attention.
At  the  same  time,  we  must  keep  in  mind  that 
financing is not an end in itself but rather a means for 
achieving development. We must therefore be results-
oriented, paying more attention to delivering resources 
13-50232
15/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
effectively  in  order  to  meet  real  development  needs. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  all  development 
partners  participate  in  the  Global  Partnership  for 
Effective Development Cooperation, whose first high-
level meeting, to be held in Mexico in April, will follow 
up on what was agreed on at the High-Level Forum on 
Aid Effectiveness held in Busan in 2011. Collaboration 
between the United Nations and the Global Partnership, 
through  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
and  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development, is essential in that regard.
The  special  event  following  up  on  efforts  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  held 
two  weeks  ago,  was  a  great  opportunity  to  renew 
our  political  commitment  to  achieving  the  MDGs, 
and  to  develop  guidelines  for  the  concrete  actions  of 
various  stakeholders.  During  the  general  debate  in 
the  Assembly  two  weeks  ago,  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  stated  that  Japan  has  set 
aside $500 million to address health issues in Africa, 
and has set up training programmes for some 120,000 
health and medical service providers (see A/68/PV.12). 
Prime Minister Abe also mentioned that Japan intends 
to  make  an  appropriate  contribution  at  the  upcoming 
Fourth  Replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which seeks to secure 
additional financing for the Fund at the global level.
In June, Japan hosted the fifth Tokyo International 
Conference  on  African  Development,  where  African 
heads  of  State  and  Government  repeatedly  expressed 
great eagerness to welcome private-sector investment, 
reflecting the fact that the flow of investment to Africa 
now exceeds that of assistance. We believe, therefore, 
that  Japan’s  assistance  to  Africa  should  be  utilized 
strategically by focusing on fostering human resources 
as  a  catalyst  that  invites  further  investment.  Such 
cooperation  between  Africa  and  Japan  will  promote 
sustainable  growth  while  cultivating  ownership  by 
African countries themselves.
fact 
that 
the 
My  delegation  welcomes 
the 
outcome  document  of  the  Special  Event  on  the 
MDGs (resolution 68/3) lays out a clear work plan for 
organically  integrating  various  processes  related  to 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  such  as  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
with a view to working towards a single framework and 
set  of  goals.  In  that  regard,  the  issue  of  development 
financing should also be appropriately integrated in line 
with the appropriate work plan. Therefore, the various 
processes, including the Intergovernmental Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing, 
the financing for development process and the Global 
Partnership  for  Effective  Development  Cooperation, 
should take a coherent approach to agreeing on a new 
global  partnership  to  be  included  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda and one that involves a variety of 
development actors.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my  hope 
once  again  that  the  discussions  at  this  High-level 
Dialogue will provide valuable inputs and insights into 
the  deliberations  in  various  forums  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Mr.  Ndour  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 
all,  I  would  like  to  express  my  pleasure  and  that  of 
the Senegalese delegation at sharing with the General 
Assembly  our  country’s  views  and  considerations 
with  respect  to  the  important  issue  of  financing  for 
development — a theme that is of great significance for 
us and for all developing countries. Naturally, our views 
and  considerations  are  consistent  with  and  support 
those set forth by the representatives of Fiji, Ethiopia 
and  Benin,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and China, the African Group and the least developed 
countries (LDCs), respectively (see A/68/PV.29).
The  conclusions  of  the  report  entitled  “Global 
Economic Outlook 2013” amply show that the overall 
growth  of  the  global  economy  following  the  marked 
slowdown in 2012 is expected to remain weak over the 
next  two  years.  That  less  than  encouraging  situation 
leads  us  to  admit  the  apparent  inability  of  the  global 
economy  to  transcend  today’s  great  challenges  for 
our countries, in particular, inadequate resources, the 
unemployment  crisis,  inflationary  pressures,  external 
debt,  instability  in  the  financial  markets,  and  many 
other  scourges.  Those  elements,  indicative  of  the 
growing dysfunction in economic mechanisms, reflect 
the depth and extent of the constraints on our States as 
they seek to adequately ensure the financing of national 
development  policies  and  respect  for  commitments 
made in that area.
With the emergence of those dangerous challenges, 
this  meeting  to  assess  the  progress  made  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  of  2002 
and  the  Doha  Declaration  of  2008  offers  us  a  unique 
opportunity  to  examine  new  development  strategies. 
Such  strategies  are  becoming  increasingly  necessary, 
especially  if  we  want  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and promote inclusive, sustainable 
16/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
and  equitable  growth,  with  the  aim  of  achieving  our 
top priority — eradicating poverty and bringing about 
sustainable development.
the  commitment  of  Senegal 
The  Monterrey  Consensus  was  an 
social  development. 
to 
important 
milestone  in  terms  of  strategies  to  implement  and 
In 
promote  economic  and 
reaffirming 
that 
instrument, my delegation must, however, note that its 
adoption  has  not  completely  enabled  our  countries  to 
redress  the  imbalances  and  revitalize  our  economies 
to the extent it should. Indeed, in terms of results, we 
must  underscore  the  weak  mobilization  of  domestic 
resources  and  foreign  capital  flows  and  the  declines 
in  income  from  export,  in  the  volume  of  migrant 
remittances  and  in  foreign  direct  investment  flows. 
That worrisome situation is acutely illustrated in most 
of our States, inter alia, by a substantial decrease in the 
rate of economic growth and by rising unemployment.
For all of the foregoing and other relevant reasons, 
my delegation believes that the international community 
should play a more instrumental role in the fulfilment 
of international commitments, particularly with respect 
to official development assistance (ODA), as set forth 
in  the  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action  for  the  LDCs 
for  the  Decade  2011-2020  and  the  Busan  Partnership 
agreement.
With respect to ODA, my delegation believes that we 
should adopt measures to ensure greater predictability 
of  aid  flows  in  order  to  ensure  their  effectiveness  by 
focusing  on  national  priorities  and  local  development 
policies.  In  addition,  we  must  work  to  overcome  the 
burden of external debt and ensure renewed economic 
governance  and  a  more  equitable  trading  system 
through  the  elimination  of  protectionist  measures,  a 
suitable conclusion to the Doha Round of negotiations 
and the realization of aid-for-trade.
Similarly,  we  should  insist  together  on  climate 
financing  and  the  implementation  of  agreements  on 
climate change, including the Green Climate Fund and 
the transfer of environmentally sound technologies. My 
delegation would also like to take this opportunity to 
welcome  the  establishment  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing  and  urge  the  international  community  to 
work to ensure its effective functioning.
The  lack  of  resources  coming  from  traditional 
sources  for  development  finance  has,  fortunately,  led 
to the emergence of innovative mechanisms to generate 
additional  resources  that  are  stable  and  predictable. 
There  have  been  many  concrete  initiatives  in  that 
area, including the tax on airline tickets. Accordingly, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  invite  the  international 
community  to  continue  discussions  on  the  subject 
and to call for an adequate redistribution of resources 
drawn  from  those  new  mechanisms  for  the  benefit  of 
target countries based on their development priorities.
Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  conclude  by 
emphasizing that the new sources of financing are, in 
fact, additional sources and are not, therefore, designed 
to  supplant 
traditional  financing  mechanisms  or 
affect the significance and volume of such traditional 
financial mechanisms.
Mr.  Pehlivan  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
express  our  pleasure  at  the  convening  of  this  critical 
High-level  Dialogue  and  congratulate  all  the  relevant 
parties for their kind efforts to that end. My delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer 
of  the  European  Union  (see  A/68/PV.29).  Meanwhile, 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  make  a  few  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
in 
require 
financing 
Financing  for  development  remains  a  global 
challenge.  Shortfalls 
rapid 
mobilization and the effective use of all resources so as 
to achieve sustained growth and eradicate poverty. The 
Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration provide 
the  necessary  framework  for  global  development 
partnerships  with  fairer  and  more  open  trade  and 
increased  financial  aid 
to  developing  countries. 
As  we  approach  the  2015  deadline,  it  is  crucial  to 
allocate  additional  resources  for  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Furthermore, 
the  means  of  implementation  will  be  vital  for  future 
sustainable development goals and needs to be one of 
the  main  components  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  and  the 
austerity  measures  in  some  countries  are  negatively 
affecting global development endeavours. Their impact 
on developing countries has led to dramatic social and 
economic  consequences.  Deep  contractions  in  work 
and the demand for foods and services, along with the 
consequent decrease in export earnings, foreign direct 
investment, private capital flows and remittances, have 
led to additional challenges in the developing countries. 
As a matter of fact, the global crisis has turned into a 
growth and job crisis in both developed and developing 
countries.
13-50232
17/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
To craft an adequate response to the crisis, concerted 
international efforts must be directed at addressing the 
weakness of the global financial system and ensuring 
that  Governments  implement  adequate  policies  to 
restore  inclusive  and  sustainable  growth.  Efforts  to 
reform  the  international  financial  architecture  should 
be continued with greater transparency and genuine and 
effective participation by the developing countries. The 
long-term lending capabilities of international financial 
institutions and regional development banks should be 
enhanced  through  active  market-funding  corporations 
and, if necessary, through appropriate capital-injection 
operations. T he timely delivery of official development 
assistance and other aid commitments is essential.
financing 
for 
development  must  go  beyond  bilateral  aid.  Increasing 
trade, investments, debt relief and technology transfers 
is  critical  in  that  regard.  Financing  needs  should  be 
structured  in  accordance  with  the  nature  of  sectors, 
regions  and  the  level  of  development  of  the  countries 
involved.  Investment 
infrastructure,  new  and 
additional  financial  resources  for  small  and  medium-
sized  enterprises,  microfinance  and  human  mobility 
should be augmented so as to boost economic growth 
and job creation.
However,  efforts 
relating 
to 
in 
As a member of the Group of 20 and an emerging 
donor country, Turkey will remain a strong supporter of 
the development endeavours of the developing countries, 
in  particular  the  least  developed  countries  and  small 
island States. The scale of Turkey’s financial, technical 
and  material  assistance 
to  developing  countries, 
including  that  provided  by  Turkish  non-governmental 
organizations,  exceeded  $2  billion  in  2012  and  will 
certainly increase over the years to come.
To conclude, Turkey will assume the chairmanship 
of the Group of 20 in 2015. Financing for development 
and the means for implementing internationally agreed 
development goals will be among the priorities of our 
chairmanship.
Mr.  Ruiz  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank 
the President of the Assembly for convening this timely 
sixth High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development 
in  order  to  review  the  implementation  status  of  the 
commitments  undertaken  in  Monterrey  and  Doha  as 
well  as  other  pending  matters.  My  delegation  aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/
PV.29) and wishes to make the following remarks in its 
national capacity.
Colombia  recognizes  the  importance  of  this  sixth 
High-level  Dialogue  at  a  time  when  it  is  necessary 
to  redouble  and  accelerate  our  efforts  to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  set  in 
motion  a  post-2015  development  agenda  focused  on 
the  eradication  of  poverty  within  a  framework  of 
sustainability and a shift in the patterns of production 
and  consumption  that  will  guarantee  that  the  results 
achieved are truly irreversible.
While  it  is  true  that  important  progress  has  been 
made  since  the  adoption  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
and  the  Doha  Declaration,  we  need  to  strengthen 
the  follow-up  and  implementation  process  for  the 
commitments undertaken in their regard, which would 
help  to  enhance  the  coherence  and  cohesion  of  the 
financial  and  commercial  systems,  thereby  ensuring 
that they effectively support the implementation of the 
internationally agreed development goals.
In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  it  is  essential  for 
there to be a reliable monitoring mechanism within the 
United Nations system that could be conceived of as a 
subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and that would allow us to close the gap between policy 
formulation and the implementation of commitments. It 
is imperative to reverse the real-term decline in official 
development assistance flows for development and trade 
that  has  been  seen  in  the  past  two  years  and  to  fulfil 
all  the  commitments  made  in  those  spheres.  Deeper 
international technical cooperation is also needed, with 
special  emphasis  on  closing  the  current  digital  gap 
between  developed  and  developing  countries  in  order 
to strengthen developing countries’ ability to attain the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Likewise,  more  measures  are  required  to  ensure 
timely relief for severely indebted developing countries. 
The existing structure for restructuring sovereign debt 
is  far  from  ideal.  While  the  inclusion  of  collective 
action  clauses  in  bond  contracts  and  the  development 
of  a  voluntary  code  of  conduct  to  guide  negotiations 
on restructuring sovereign debt constitute an important 
advance, there needs to be a more appropriate, effective 
and  equitable  framework  for  restructuring  sovereign 
debt.
In order for business to play its role as an engine 
for  development,  developing  countries  require  better 
and  broader  access  to  international  markets.  It  is, 
therefore, critical to make progress in the Doha Round 
negotiations at the upcoming ministerial meeting of the 
18/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
World  Trade  Organization  in  Bali.  Specifically,  there 
need to be agreements on establishing a mechanism for 
monitoring  the  application  of  the  principle  of  special 
and differential treatment for developing countries, as 
well as a separate package for less advanced countries.
It has been recognized that the success of developing 
countries does not depend exclusively on solid domestic 
policies but also on a favourable external environment 
that  guarantees  the  coherence  and  cohesion  of  the 
international  monetary,  financial  and  commercial 
markets that support development. We must strengthen 
multilateral,  regional  and  subregional  bank  financing 
for  development  and  increase  the  capacity  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  development  banks 
to provide sufficient resources for stabilizing markets 
in  times  of  systemic  liquidity  crisis.  In  general,  we 
need a more responsible, inclusive and coherent global 
economic  system  of  governance,  and  that  involves 
establishing  more  effective  machinery  for  collective 
decision-making by the various interested parties at the 
international  level  in  which  the  developing  countries 
will have increased participation.
Ms. Borges (Timor-Leste), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
In the context of the post-2015 development agenda, 
it  is  essential  that  we  launch  a  solid,  strengthened 
global  alliance  for  development  based  on  Millennium 
Development  Goal  8.  Mobilizing  financial  resources 
for  development  and  channelling  them  all  effectively 
are  fundamental  to  launching  such  an  alliance.  In 
that  regard,  an  effective  financing  strategy  requires 
that  we  mobilize  internal  resources,  fulfil  all  official 
development 
and  use 
innovative  financing  mechanisms.  Given  that  official 
efforts will not be enough to met the enormous needs 
involved,  we  must  devise  strategies  that  enable  us  to 
attract private financing through risk-sharing measures 
and provide ways of enabling private initiatives to be 
better aligned with public goals, so as to facilitate long-
term investment in sectors that are crucial to sustainable 
development. Such sectors include infrastructure, low-
carbon-emission  projects  and  related  innovations  and 
technology, and financing for small and medium-sized 
businesses.
commitments 
assistance 
Mr.  Nkombela  (South  Africa):  At  the  outset,  I 
would like to align myself with the statements delivered 
by the representatives of Fiji, on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  and  Ethiopia,  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group (see A/68/PV.29). My delegation would also like 
to thank the President for organizing this sixth High-
level Dialogue on Financing for Development.
finance 
that  developing 
The key to countries’ development depends on the 
availability of finance, and it is through the mobilization 
of 
achieve 
development. The Monterrey Consensus and the Doha 
Declaration provide a useful framework in that regard. 
They reaffirm the collective commitment to addressing 
the challenges of financing for development in a spirit 
of  global  partnership  and  solidarity,  which  should  be 
the centrepiece of cooperation for development.
countries 
This  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development 
comes at a time when we are moving towards the 2015 
target  date  for  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) and a development agenda beyond 2015. 
Developing countries’ ability to achieve the MDGs has 
sometimes  been  constrained  by,  among  other  things, 
the volatility of financial flows and commodity prices 
and external debt, issues that may also be compounded 
by  the  ongoing  financial  and  economic  crisis  and  by 
food and energy crises, along with the challenges posed 
by climate change.
In  that  context,  therefore,  it  is  important  to 
address  the  systemic  fragilities  and  imbalances  in  an 
international  financial  and  monetary  system  in  need 
of  reform,  including  improved  access  to  finance  and 
financial services for all; increased representation for 
developing  countries  on  the  international  financial 
regulatory  bodies;  responsible  lending  and  borrowing 
practices; debt management; and the debt-restructuring 
framework. My delegation believes that the international 
community must pursue the development of an agreed 
mechanism for working out debt.
My  delegation  maintains  that  further  efforts  are 
needed to ensure that past development commitments 
are not only honoured but are delivered in a form that 
is  not  disguised  or  recycled  in  any  way.  The  African 
continent,  in  particular,  faces  severe  challenges  in 
implementing the MDGs. The commitments that were 
made  at  Gleneagles  to  increase  assistance  to  Africa 
should  be  honoured  in  order  to  help  the  continent  to 
extricate  itself  from  the  challenges  of  poverty  and 
underdevelopment.
We  also  believe  it  is  very  important  that  the 
inclusive  process  for  following  up  on  financing  for 
development be strengthened and its intergovernmental 
character  reinforced.  My  delegation  supports 
the 
decision to hold informal consultations to consider the 
13-50232
19/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
need for holding a follow-up conference. Moreover, it 
would  be  prudent  to  consider  holding  the  High-level 
Dialogue on Financing for Development twice a year, 
so  as  to  more  immediately  address  the  challenges 
facing many countries, including the ongoing financial 
and  economic  crisis,  food  and  energy  crises  and  the 
challenges  posed  by  climate  change.  My  delegation 
would also like to stress the central role of the United 
Nations in financing for development and the need in 
our ongoing deliberations to address the fragmentation 
of financing while addressing development in general.
Finally, I should say that South Africa, as a member 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing,  attaches  great 
importance  to  mobilizing  resources  for  achieving 
sustainable development and eradicating poverty.
Mr.  Ovalles-Santos 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  would 
like to commend the holding today of this High-level 
Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development.  Venezuela 
fully  endorses 
the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.29).
the  statement  delivered  by 
Venezuela  reaffirms  the  content  of  paragraph  90 
of  the  outcome  document  of  the  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing  for  Development,  and  of  resolution  67/199 
regarding  the  decision  to  hold  informal  consultations 
aimed  at  reaching  a  final  decision  on  the  need  for  a 
follow-up conference on financing for development and 
convening it by 2013. In that regard, we urge that action 
be taken on updated draft resolution A/67/L.71 by the 
end  of  October,  in  order  that  a  follow-up  conference 
for  reviewing  the  implementation  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration be held before the 
end of 2015, with a view to contributing to the process 
of the post-2015 development agenda.
Venezuela  would  like  to  raise  the  importance  of 
establishing  an  appropriate  follow-up  mechanism 
within the United Nations system, such as a financing 
for development committee that is a subsidiary of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  in  order  to  bridge  the 
gap  between  policymaking  and  the  implementation 
of commitments, and to ensure the necessary support 
for  the  implementation  of  internationally  agreed-on 
development goals.
Venezuela  urges  the  launch  of  a  preparatory 
process  for  a  follow-up  conference,  and  to  that  end 
asks the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth  session,  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  to  appoint 
co-facilitators before the end of 2013 and to hold open, 
inclusive  and  direct  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
with  the  participation  of  all  Member  States,  on  all 
conference-related  issues,  including  arrangements  for 
strengthening  the  process,  such  as  the  establishment 
of  a  commission  on  financing  for  development,  in 
accordance  with  paragraph  33  of  resolution  67/199, 
and  also  taking  into  account  the  recommendations 
contained in the report of the Secretary-General on the 
modalities of the financing for development follow-up 
process (A/67/353).
Venezuela welcomes the decision of the President 
of the General Assembly to convene during the sixty-
eighth  session  a  separate  meeting  of  the  Second 
Committee  on  the  topic  of  macroeconomic  policy 
questions  to  discuss  actions  in  response  to  the  world 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  its  impact  on 
development. Further contributions to follow up on this 
conference are necessary, and we cannot delay further 
action. The world is waiting. Venezuela encourages all 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  at  this  session 
to  consider  the  recommendations  contained  in  of 
Economic and Social Council resolution 2011/39, on the 
establishment of a United Nations panel of experts on 
the reform of the international financial system.
Venezuela  recalls  the  Commission  of  Experts 
created  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-third  session,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, on reforms of the international monetary 
and financial system and underlines the importance of 
its work and contribution contributing to the follow-up 
to the conference. The Commission’s work contributed 
significantly 
informing  Member  States  on 
international action and international decision-making 
aiming 
technical 
expertise,  analysis  and  key  recommendations,  and 
fostering  constructive  dialogue  and  exchange  among 
policymakers, academics and institutions.
intellectual  support, 
to  provide 
to 
financing 
include  global  stimulus, 
Venezuela  recommends  that  the  issues  to  be 
addressed  by  a  commission  of  experts  of  the  United 
follow-
Nations  should 
up  processes, 
trade 
stimulation, debt relief, a moratorium of debt work-out 
processes,  special  drawing  rights  allocations,  global 
and  regional  reserve  systems,  special  drawing  rights 
and  development  finance,  development  finance  and 
United Nations institutional arrangements, a financial 
transaction tax, the regulation and coordination of the 
restructuring, 
for 
20/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
global economy, and the restructuring of international 
institutions — all within the context of the strengthening 
of the role of the United Nations.
crisis;  the  food  crisis;  and  the  macroeconomic  policy 
crisis — it has become clear that countries have failed 
to solve the financial crisis of 2008.
Venezuela  also  urges  that  the  agreement  between 
the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions 
be  reviewed,  in  collaboration  with  those  institutions. 
Bearing in mind the decision of the first South Summit 
and  its  programme  of  action,  which  encouraged  the 
establishment of a group of experts, in their individual 
capacities,  to  review  and  comment  on  the  agendas  of 
major  United  Nations  multilateral  conferences  with 
a  view  to  providing  guidance  on  the  objectives  and 
goals  of  developing  countries,  Venezuela  reiterates 
the recommendation to establish a panel of experts of 
the South on the reform of the international financial 
system.
recalls 
the 
Venezuela  also 
recommendation 
contained  in  resolution  63/303  to  hold  a  follow-up 
conference  on  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  and 
its impact on development and on the continuation of 
the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Working  Group 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  follow  up  on  the  issues 
contained  in  the  Outcome  of  the  Conference  on  the 
World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact 
on  Development.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the 
recommendation  of  the  South  Centre  to  follow  up  on 
and  implement  all  mandates  through  regional  and 
subregional arrangements and institutions in the South, 
including the South Summit.
Finally, Venezuela regrets the lack of engagement 
on the side of developed countries on the follow-up to 
the  Conference  on  the  Financial  Crisis.  However,  we 
also recall the commitment to work in solidarity on a 
coordinated and comprehensive global response to the 
ongoing  adverse  impacts  of  the  world  economic  and 
financial crisis on development.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): The delegation of the Plurinational 
State  of  Bolivia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/68/PV.29).
On this occasion, the Assembly serves as a space 
for  us  to  reflect  together  on  the  economy  and  on  the 
economic  models  being  implemented  by  countries 
around  the  world.  As  our  planet  faces  multiple, 
interconnected and mutually exacerbating crises — the 
financial crisis; the climate crisis, which is becoming 
an  ecological  collapse,  the  water  crisis;  the  energy 
That  recent  financial  crisis  has  shifted 
the 
contours of the economy, which has impacted national 
economies.  Once  again,  it  is  the  population,  the 
world’s poor, who end up paying the price for the crisis 
created  by  capitalism  and  the  minority  who  privatize 
the  gains  of  the  system  and  socialize  its  losses.  This 
is  capitalism —  a  system  that  does  not  accommodate 
us all and that will always have few winners and many 
losers, among them Mother Earth.
We  are  also  facing  a  profound 
ideological, 
ethical  and  moral  crisis.  We  are  facing  the  decline  of 
capitalist  civilization.  We  are  putting  at  risk  not  only 
the  only  home  we  have,  but  life  on  the  planet  itself, 
our  very  existence  as  humankind.  This  is  why  many 
economists  and  scientists  are  today  dusting  off  their 
copies  of  Marx  to  understand  what  is  happening  in 
the  capitalist  world.  He,  too,  understood  that  there 
exists an antagonistic relationship between capitalism 
and  nature:  the  fundamental  contradiction  between 
potentially  unlimited  wealth  accumulation  and  the 
finite  character  of  certain  natural  resources.  That  is 
why we cannot disassociate economic approaches that 
seek  harmony  with  Mother  Earth  from  anticapitalist 
economic  approaches  that  seek  to  rescue  the  original 
essence of economy and society.
It  is  from  this  perspective  that  the  Plurinational 
State of Bolivia, together with other countries, proposed 
that  all  the  peoples  of  the  world  adopt  well-being  as 
an  economic,  political  and  civilizational  paradigm.  It 
is  an  alternative  to  capitalism,  born  in  the  ancestral 
cultures of indigenous peoples of the land, which seeks 
the  production  and  reproduction  of  life,  not  of  profit. 
Thus we are talking about an economy for life, which 
overcomes not only the exploitation of man by man, but 
also the exploitation of nature by man.
Since  2006,  with  the  Government  of  President 
Evo Morales Ayma, we have planned and built in our 
country a community-based productive socioeconomic 
model,  which  has  attained 
results, 
especially  in  poverty  reduction,  universal  access  to 
primary resources and revenue redistribution. We have 
achieved those results by nationalizing and developing 
our strategic natural resources.
significant 
However,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that, 
while  the  so-called  developed  countries  have  higher 
13-50232
21/23
A/68/PV.30 
07/10/2013
incomes  and  fewer  unsatisfied  needs,  middle-income 
countries still have to generate the material conditions 
to  resolve  historically  unmet  needs  and  to  eradicate 
poverty and the economic dependence that capitalism 
has imposed on us. We need to industrialize our natural 
resources  and  develop  ourselves  to  cease  being  mere 
suppliers of raw materials for industrialized countries. 
However,  we  are  aware  that  industrialization  has  an 
impact on Mother Earth. What we have to do is promote 
an  ecologically  sound  mode  of  production  and  clean 
industry.  But  the  cost  will  be  much  higher  than  that 
of conventional industry — a cost that many countries 
will be unable to meet. This is a fact that we must face.
We  cannot  try  to  compensate  for  the  impact  of 
such  pillage  by  adopting  a  carbon-emission  trading 
system  based  on  yet  further  expansion  of  capitalist 
markets,  nor  by  promoting  a  green  economy  that  is 
part  of  the  twenty-first  century  brand  of  colonialism 
that commercializes the natural wellspring of life and 
compels  us  in  the  countries  of  the  South  to  be  poor 
forest-keepers, as President Evo Morales has stated on 
several occasions.
How  can  we  produce,  grow  and  develop  while 
appropriately  distributing  and  redistributing  wealth 
and  income?  How  can  we  speed  up  the  growth  of 
current modes of production knowing that it will lead 
us to an ecological collapse that would put the survival 
of humankind at risk? We know very well that this can 
bring about severe economic and social crises. So, how 
can we strike a balance? These are questions we must 
ask ourselves, as we set out, at a time when capitalism is 
undergoing a structural crisis, to create new economic 
models and to make significant changes in the structure 
and architecture of global financial systems.
We  must  enlist 
the  decisive  participation  of 
developing  countries,  thereby  building  a  financial 
system  that  is  designed  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
promote  sustainable  development,  with  full  respect 
for  the  development  visions,  models,  focus  and  tools 
of individual countries. That would include promoting 
respect for the sovereign decisions of countries, while 
doing  away  with  all  forms  of  colonialism  —  instead 
of  turning  international  financial  organizations  into 
regulators  that  intervene  and  monitor  our  economies 
and  societies,  prescribing  models  of  development  and 
using  debt  to  bribe  us  or  imposing  policies  that  have 
little to do with our realities.
Finally,  Bolivia  would  like  to  point  out  that  the 
solution is by no means simple. Economic realities are 
numerous  and  complex.  Bolivia  is  doing  its  humble 
part  by  building  an  economy  for  life  wherein  the 
needs  of  the  individual  are  taken  into  consideration 
through  a  collective  effort,  one  that  is  in  harmony 
with Mother Earth, involving all of us. Of course, that 
poses  tremendous  challenges,  especially  when  there 
is  poverty,  but  we  are  ready  to  work  towards  change, 
in the knowledge that no single country can solve the 
problem and that we must work together, which is why 
we are here. Now more than ever before, we must fight 
for life, a fight that is incumbent upon all of us.
Ms.  Nazaire  (Haiti)  (spoke 
in  French):  My 
delegation fully aligns itself with the statements made 
by  Fiji,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Вelize  and  Benin  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the  Caribbean 
Community, the small island developing States (SIDS) 
and the least developed countries (LDCS), respectively 
(see A/68/PV.29). We would like to thank the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  holding  this  essential 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Financing  for 
Development and the Secretary-General.
As  a  least  developed  country  and  a  small  island 
developing  State,  Haiti  is  firmly  convinced  that  all 
stakeholders  should  redouble  their  efforts  in  order  to 
ensure that the specific recommendations made in the 
financing for development process, including those in 
the Istanbul and Barbados Programmes of Action and 
the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  are 
fully implemented. At the same time, it is also of the 
utmost importance that we consolidate and pursue the 
undeniable  progress  made  following  the  Monterrey 
Consensus, the Doha Declaration and the related United 
Nations conferences, even though it was insufficient.
My delegation is confident that the outcome of the 
Dialogue  will  help  us  accelerate  and  refine  ways  of 
reaching the levels, meeting the targets and identifying 
practical modalities for development aid that are in line 
with  the  ambitious  objectives  set  by  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and the forthcoming post-
2015 development agenda.
Haiti is aware of the importance of foreign direct 
investment,  the  only  option  to  have  proved  itself 
capable  of  fostering  sustained  development.  We  are 
now engaged in the recovery phase and in post-disaster 
growth  and  have  an  improved  business  environment 
created  by  the  Government.  National  and,  above  all, 
foreign  private  capital  are  playing  a  primary  role  in 
22/23 
13-50232
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.30
our current economic growth. For two years now, the 
level of foreign direct investment in the manufacturing 
sector, in development infrastructures and in tourism, 
in particular, has been unprecedented.
Haiti has also explored new paths, such as South-
South  cooperation,  which 
is  currently  expanding 
rapidly.  In  addition,  we  have  innovated  by  actively 
promoting the earmarking of resources from expatriate 
remittances.  Because  of  this,  Haiti  is  on  its  way  to 
providing  primary  education  for  all  and  achieving 
MDG 2, well before all previous predictions.
However,  owing  to  the  limited  scope  of  such 
alternative  mechanisms,  and  since  Haiti  has  scant 
access to the main capital markets, official development 
assistance (ODA) remains critical for countries like ours, 
particularly for all low-budget and short-term projects 
and programmes, even though they would, in the long 
term, be most helpful in terms of building governance 
and  the  other  economic,  social  and  environmental 
infrastructure  without  which  sustainable  development 
cannot  be  realized.  For  example,  the  impact  of  the 
global financial crisis in 2008 and the decline in ODA 
that  followed  dealt  a  severe  blow  to  the  extremely 
positive momentum that had led to the early attainment 
of MDGs. Having received vital aid, virtually from the 
entire  world,  immediately  after  the  2010  earthquake, 
Haiti has first-hand knowledge in that area.
to 
the 
financing  of 
Yet, our main partners have been slow in meeting 
the  generous  promises  they  made   at  that  time  with 
respect 
reconstruction  and 
development  projects.  Similarly,  the  progress  made 
in  attaining  the  MDGs  is  largely  due  to  bilateral  and 
multilateral  development  assistance.  For  example,  a 
broad  and  well-coordinated  international  aid  system, 
supported by the United States President’s Emergency 
Plan  for  AIDS  Relief  and  the  Joint  United  Nations 
Programme on HIV/AIDS, has helped more than halve 
the rate of HIV/AIDS prevalence in Haiti. Jeopardizing 
this  funding  would  dangerously  undermine  such  an 
achievement.
However, beyond the need to maintain and increase 
the  level  and  range  of  public  funding  available  for 
development,  we  must,  once  again,  urgently  draw  the 
international  community’s  attention  to  the  challenges 
and  contradictions  that  have  arisen  from  mobilizing 
and  channelling  ODA.  Many  speakers  have  already 
referred  to  concessional  loans,  the  vicious  circle  of 
debt and the obstacles blocking access to international 
commerce  and  fair  trade.  Haiti’s  experience  over  the 
past two decades obliges us to add to that list of dubious 
and, in the long run, totally counterproductive practices 
the  systematic  handing  over  to  non-governmental 
organizations — however worthy they may be — most 
or all of the task of funding and managing bilateral or 
multilateral projects. To do so may diminish the overall 
cohesion  or  impair  the  effectiveness  and  outcome, 
thereby  further  reducing  the  ability  of  modestly 
endowed States to strengthen their capacity to craft and 
execute development projects for their people.
My  delegation  believes  that  it  would  be  useful 
to  build  on  the  efforts  made  in  recent  years  by  the 
United  Nations  development  system  itself  that  are 
aimed at streamlining its cooperation frameworks and 
integrating and harmonizing the work of its numerous 
agencies, funds and programmes, whether it be on the 
ground,  in  their  relations  with  one  another  or,  most 
especially, in terms of the strategic development options 
defined by the host country.
In  conclusion  —  and  I  will  put  this  as  simply  as 
possible —  we  all  know  that  in  the  area  of  financing 
for  development,  quality  is  as  important  as  quantity. 
We must therefore begin forthwith a frank, transparent 
and inclusive discussion to consider any lessons that we 
should  apply  in  our  global  and  local  approach  to  this 
issue.
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
13-50232
23/23
