United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
10th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 25 September 2013, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.10
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Arias (Spain), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
the international economic crisis and of climate change. 
El Salvador has been no exception.
The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos 
Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President of the Republic of 
El Salvador, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Funes Cartagena (spoke in Spanish): It 
is  an  honour  to  join  other  speakers  in  addressing  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  This 
year  the  Assembly  has  as  its  theme  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”. These annual 
meetings are thus an opportunity to consider and reflect 
on the course that each of our countries is following to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
There can be no doubt that recent events have posed 
a  major  challenge  to  the  achievement  of  prosperity, 
development and progress, especially in those regions 
of the world that have suffered most from the effects of 
When, on 1 June 2009, the Government that I head 
took power, the nation’s economic growth rate was at 
negative  3  per  cent,  with  40,000  jobs  lost.  There  had 
been a considerable drop in exports, especially to the 
United States, our principal market. Income from taxes 
and family remittances had decreased, and broad sectors 
of the population were impoverished or excluded from 
the benefits of public policies.
But that harsh reality was not just a product of the 
crisis. It was the result of decades of the implementation 
of economic and social models that excluded the great 
majority and promoted backwardness and injustice. As 
from June 2009, with the process of political alternation 
in El Salvador, that reality began to shift.
As soon as our Government took power, we made a 
commitment to achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals and to use them as a road map. The Government’s 
five-year plan states that our strategic plan is to have 
a  healthy,  educated  and  productive  population  with 
the  capacity  and  appropriate  opportunities  to  fully 
develop  its  potential  to  become  the  foundation  of  our 
development.  The  Government’s  plan  incorporates 
strategic  instruments  and  policies  aimed  at  achieving 
the MDGs over the short and medium term. We took 
the strategic decision not to shift the costs of the crisis 
onto  the  poorest  segments  of  the  population,  as  had 
been the habit in the past.
For  that  reason,  we  devised  and  implemented 
reducing 
policies  aimed  at  combating  poverty, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48569 (E)
*1348569*
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
inequality, achieving a process of social inclusion and 
creating new institutional mechanisms that would make 
it possible to more equitably distribute wealth and the 
benefits of economic growth.
Our  Government  put  an  end  to  the  old  concept 
of  the  patrimonial  State,  which  defended  only  the 
interests  of  small  political  and  economic  groups. 
Now  the  Salvadoran  State  is  at  the  service  of  the 
most  underprivileged.  That  shift  in  public  policy  has 
translated  into  an  increasingly  modern  and  effective 
State that is fighting poverty, social exclusion, violence 
and  corruption.  Thus  this  new  type  of  governance, 
which is based on the implementation of best practices, 
transparent and increasingly participatory, has already 
begun to have a positive impact on the achievement of 
the MDGs, as demonstrated by the following results.
El  Salvador  has  made  great  progress  towards 
eliminating  poverty  and  hunger.  In  the  past  year,  we 
not only achieved but exceeded the goal of reducing the 
number  of  households  living  in  extreme  poverty.  We 
also made major achievements when it comes to access 
to  education.  In  1991,  the  net  coverage  for  primary 
education was 75 per cent of the population; last year it 
was 93 per cent. We have gained almost 20 percentage 
points in those years. 
Since 
the  beginning  of  my  Administration, 
all  students  in  public  schools  —  some  1.3  million 
children and young people — have received free shoes, 
uniforms and school supplies. The impact of this was 
immediately  noticeable,  as  we  increased  enrolment 
while  dramatically  reducing  the  dropout  rate.  Twenty 
years  ago,  85  per  cent  of  the  population  of  working 
age was literate, but this rate has now reached almost 
100  per  cent.  Over  for  the  past  four  years  alone,  the 
Government has managed to reduce the illiteracy rate 
by 5 per cent. With the help of thousands of volunteers, 
we are teaching over 170,000 adults to read.
In terms of health, one of the achievements we are 
most proud of is related to the significant reduction in 
maternal mortality, one of the two sections of Millennium 
Development  Goal  5.  With  the  health-care  reform 
undertaken  by  my  Administration,  we  have  increased 
access  to  health  services  by  hiring  more  doctors, 
nurses  and  specialists  and  establishing  new  women’s 
centres.  Pursuant  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, the objective is to achieve a maternal mortality 
rate that is equal to or below 52.8 maternal deaths per 
100,000  inhabitants  by  2015.  We  have  reached  that 
goal in El Salvador and even exceeded expectations by 
reducing the rate to 41.9 maternal deaths per 100,000, 
or 11 fewer than the target for this Goal.
The  comprehensive  health-care  reform  initiative 
that we launched has been tasked with bringing health-
care services to the most remote corners of our country 
that,  historically,  have  been  isolated  from  economic 
and  social  development.  This  firm  commitment  of 
our Government has led us to increase the health-care 
budget by 60 per cent over a period of four years. That 
has allowed us to increase the supply of medicines in 
hospitals  and  public  health  clinics  by  between  50  to 
82  per  cent  in  that  time  and  to  significantly  expand 
the  proportion  of  the  population  who  are  immunized. 
Similarly,  free  health  consultations  mandated  by  our 
Government have contributed to a 40 per cent increase 
in  demand  for  such  services,  which  represents  a 
significant step in our goal to extend that service to the 
majority of the population. 
I  cannot  speak  of  advances 
in  health  care 
without  talking  about  access  to  and  improvement 
of  basic  services  such  as  drinking  water.  Our  efforts 
have  gradually  borne  fruit  in  the  areas  under  our 
responsibility  in  this  respect.  We  have  met  the  target 
of 71 per cent of households having treated water piped 
into their houses. In 2011, under our Government, this 
was already true of 72 per cent of households. Sanitation 
is covered by another Millennium Development Goal, 
which set the target of 89 per cent of households having 
this service by 2015. As of two years ago, 96 per cent of 
Salvadoran households had access to sanitation.
In  summary,  great  efforts  have  been  undertaken 
to  achieve  the  best  possible  outcome  on  each  of  the 
indicators,  leading  to  enhanced  well-being  for  all 
Salvadorans. I believe that the time has come to conceive 
of social programmes for people as an investment and 
not as an expense, or even worse as a waste, as some 
leaders in the country mistakenly continue to believe, 
stuck as they are in their stingy and outdated ways of 
thinking.
It  is  clear  that  the  gains  we  have  made  in  my 
country  in  recent  years  have  not  been  the  result  of 
chance. El Salvador is going through a period of great 
change.  This  profound  transformation  has  occurred 
first through a change in the economic model that has 
set  a  different  course  for  our  nation.  We  are  working 
primarily  on  restoring  the  vitality  of  our  countryside 
in  order  to  make  it  once  again  a  central  engine  for 
economic development. 
2/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
Thanks  to  our  family  agriculture  plan,  which 
provides  small  and  medium-sized  farms  with  free 
delivery  of  improved  seed  packets  and  fertilizer, 
training  and  access  to  technology  and  credit,  last 
year  we  had  record  food-crop  harvests  and  were  still 
able  to  keep  the  price  of  basic  grains  within  reach  of 
the  entire  population  of  El  Salvador.  We  have  also 
successfully  implemented  school  lunch  programmes, 
so  that  children  receive  at  school  fresh,  healthy  food 
grown on Salvadoran farms. Today, more than 800,000 
poor Salvadoran children receive two glasses of fresh 
milk  a  week  in  school  as  part  of  their  diet.  All  these 
efforts  have  brought  more  prosperity  to  Salvadorans, 
especially the poorest. 
But in addition to poverty, there are other scourges 
such as violence, drug trafficking and organized crime 
that  deprive  our  people  of  well-being  and  happiness. 
With this in mind, we have implemented public policies 
to reduce violence and fight crime.
The  Government  has  created  new  police  units, 
overseen  the  graduation  of  4,000  new  agents  and 
redoubled operational plans to curb crime. At the same 
time, a non-aggression pact between the two main youth 
gangs was agreed on two years ago. The Government 
was only a facilitator of that pact, which has established 
the minimal conditions to reduce gang violence levels 
in the areas most affected by that phenomenon. Thus, 
ongoing crime suppression and prevention efforts have 
resulted  in  a  50  per  cent  reduction  in  homicides.  The 
Government’s  security  policy  has  also  dealt  a  heavy 
blow to organized crime gangs, allowing for significant 
seizures of drug shipments. 
We  know,  however,  that  huge  challenges  remain. 
There are major obstacles to development that will not 
be overcome in my new Administration’s four years in 
power.  I  would  highlight  in  particular  the  challenges 
represented  by  climate  change  and  the  resulting  need 
to protect and safeguard the lives of tens of thousands 
of  Salvadorans.  We  are  a  region  exposed  to  extreme 
weather phenomena, at least five of which El Salvador 
has  experienced  in  recent  years.  They  have  had  the 
greatest  impact  on  the  most  vulnerable  parts  of  the 
population  and  the  country’s  infrastructure,  causing 
losses in the billions of dollars.
A major challenge is to build a sufficiently fair and 
democratic society that is respectful of those who make 
up the majority of the population — women. El Salvador 
has undertaken serious efforts to achieve goals derived 
from  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  the  area 
of gender equality and the prevention, punishment and 
eradication of violence against women.
In  addition  to  establishing  a  confidential  call 
centre  for  reporting  gender  violence,  the  Government 
has  approved  the  first  national  policy  against  human 
trafficking  and  achieved  a  considerable  decrease  in 
women’s  deaths  by  homicide.  Without  a  doubt,  the 
most valuable contribution in this area lies in the City 
of  Women  initiative,  through  which  we  have  created 
four  comprehensive  care  centres  for  women  and  are 
on  track  to  create  two  more,  scheduled  to  open  later 
this  year.  This  initiative  is  already  considered  by 
international organizations and world leaders a model 
of  public  management.  It  is  a  comprehensive  and 
integrated system of specialized services for women in 
the areas of sexual and reproductive health, economic 
empowerment  —  through  both  formal  employment 
and  support  for  entrepreneurship  —  and  prevention 
and  treatment  of  gender-based  violence.  It  also  helps 
to focus the priorities and attention of my Government 
on women.
Another  tangible  demonstration  of  the  ongoing 
process is the dialogue undertaken to achieve reparations 
for victims of gross violations of human rights and the 
vindication of the rights of war veterans. With regard 
to the latter, we have succeeded in repaying a debt that 
adminstrations  prior  to  ours  had  failed  for  years  to 
recognize and to repay. Moreover, my Government has 
promoted a reconciliation process without precedent in 
the nation’s history and a recognition of the human rights 
atrocities committed in El Salvador. As Head of State, I 
asked forgiveness for the disappearances, murders and 
torture, and from all those who experienced the brunt 
of such abuses during our civil war. I ordered a dialogue 
with organizations representing the victims of serious 
human rights violations. As a result of this process, in 
the days to come I will announce a national reparations 
programme,  which  will  include  the  ratification  of 
various  treaties  human  rights  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  and  a  guarantee  that  such  violations  will 
never recur.
The  right  to  food,  education  and  welfare  must  be 
ensured  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
and  eradicate  poverty.  In  that  respect,  all  the  efforts 
of  national  Governments  must  be  complemented  and 
strengthened  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community and the United Nations system.
Radical  change  is  needed  in  the  global  economic 
system,  which  is  based  on  financial  speculation 
13-48569
3/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
and  consumerism  and  not  only  has  an  impact  on  the 
most  developed  economies  of  the  world,  but  also 
and  especially  makes  the  least  developed  countries 
even  poorer.  International  cooperation  must  seek 
fundamentally to improve the productive capacities of 
our  countries  and  to  invest  in  people  suffering  from 
poverty  and  exclusion.  My  Government  believes  that 
the path to growth is investment in the poor and their 
transformation into a middle class with access to health 
care and education.
I invoke international solidarity and the agenda of 
the  General  Assembly  in  which  we  are  gathered  here 
today  in  order  to  advocate  once  again  for  the  lifting 
of  the  blockade  against  Cuba.  I  have  made  this  same 
request  in  my  previous  statements  before  this  forum, 
as I believe that Cuba is part of the American soul and 
that  the  blockade  is  a  relic  of  the  past.  The  brotherly 
people  of  Cuba,  like  all  peoples  of  the  world,  have 
the right to seek development and well-being through 
comprehensive integration.
Similarly,  we  support  diplomatic  efforts  seeking 
a  swift  peaceful  solution  to  the  conflict  in  Syria.  We 
condemn the use of chemical weapons, and we support 
the  agreement  between  Russia  and  the  United  States 
whereby Syria’s chemical weapons would be destroyed 
under the supervision of the United Nations.
Before I conclude, I should like to express my firm 
belief that the United Nations will take the necessary 
steps to guarantee the development and implementation 
of a comprehensive post-2015 agenda. In that context, I 
believe that we will realize a better and fairer world for 
all of humankind.
In El Salvador, we are preparing to implement that 
agenda. We are happy to be among the few countries 
in  Latin  America  working  on  multidimensional 
poverty measurement. Next year we hope to use these 
statistics  to  complement  our  income-based  poverty 
measurement.  We  will  thereby  be  in  a  better  position 
to implement comprehensive policies that will allow us 
to eradicate poverty in a definitive and lasting way. I 
thank the United Nations for its invaluable cooperation 
in the pursuit of our major aspirations as a nation, and 
the Assembly for its attention.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of El Salvador for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., 
President of the Republic of Palau
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Palau.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Tommy Esang 
Remengesau Jr., President of the Republic of Palau, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Remengesau:  At  the  outset,  let  me 
extend  my  congratulations  and  appreciation  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  his  leadership 
and work with the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session and to the Secretary-General for his continuing 
leadership.
The Palauan flag depicts a yellow full moon against 
a blue ocean. That combination of moon and ocean is a 
metaphor for nature’s balance and harmony through the 
consistency of the rising and falling tides. Just before 
I  left  to  come  to  the  General  Assembly,  during  a  full 
moon  high  tide,  my  back  yard,  which  nestles  against 
the ocean, flooded. Typhoon Usagi passed through the 
Pacific just a few days later and landed in Asia, killing 
many  people.  It  was  followed  almost  immediately  by 
Tropical Storm Pabuk.
When  I  was  a  child,  my  back  yard  did  not  flood 
and we did not have tropical storm after tropical storm 
pass through our Pacific islands. It is therefore as clear 
to me as it is to other Pacific leaders that the full moon 
and the ocean are no longer metaphors for balance and 
harmony.  Today  they  represent  imbalance  from  our 
past excesses and a lack of harmony due to our current 
inability, as the Secretary-General has so often said, to 
create the world we want.
The leaders and the people of the world certainly 
face  many  challenges  moving  forward  in  creating  the 
world we want and in developing a sustainable future. 
In addressing the next round of sustainable development 
goals and in responding to the ever-growing challenges 
4/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
of global warming, it is imperative that we all do a better 
job of working together to solve the serious issues that 
we face.
World  leaders  at  the  1992  Earth  Summit  in 
Rio  established  a  positive  and  rational  vision  of 
partnership  and  sustainable  development  for 
the 
world.  Unfortunately,  that  vision  seems  to  have  been 
sidetracked.  There  is  therefore  frustration  in  many 
countries today related to our failure to move that vision 
forward, the slow pace in progress in meeting our joint 
goals, and the fear that those goals are being diluted.
Today, it appears that the United Nations Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  has  stalled,  that  the 
Kyoto Protocol is on life support, and that the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
has  not  done  enough  to  strengthen  our  three  pillars 
of  sustainable  development.  Our  job  as  leaders  is  to 
reinvigorate our efforts by establishing real mitigation 
commitments  and  identifying  immediate,  sufficient 
and long-term implementation financing.
the  green  economy  approach 
Together,  we  reaffirmed  the  principle  of  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  at  Rio  and  moved 
forward  with 
to 
sustainable development issues. We must not allow our 
green  economy  to  become  business  as  usual.  Rather, 
we must take concrete actions to make real our stated 
reaffirmation  of  the  principles  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing 
for  Development.  Only  then  will  our  sustainable 
development  goals  discussed  at  this  session  of  the 
Generally Assembly have a real chance to respond to our 
current  worldwide  environmental  and  developmental 
emergency. 
It 
is  clear 
today 
that  what 
is  needed 
is 
leadership — leadership from the developed world and 
leadership  from  the  developing  world;  leadership  that 
focuses beyond borders and looks farther than today’s 
problems;  ultimately,  leadership  that  creates  a  broad 
consensus vision to preserve our planet for tomorrow’s 
children. Such leadership must be based upon concrete 
and  clear  principles  that  will  help  guide  all  of  our 
actions.
First,  all  nations,  large  and  small,  must  accept 
direct and primary responsibility for global issues that 
threaten  our  planetary  future,  and  must  immediately 
take  appropriate  action.  Secondly,  we  must  protect 
the  natural  resources  of  all  people  and  all  nations, 
and  recognize  that  no  nation  has  the  right  to  pollute 
the  resources  of  another.  Thirdly,  we  must  recognize 
the need for the richer nations of the world to actively 
address actions that threaten the poorer nations of the 
world.  Fourthly,  we  must  protect  human  resources 
through governing strategies that focus on broad-based 
education,  health,  jobs  and  equal  opportunities,  and 
that  acknowledge  cultures,  traditions  and  homelands. 
Finally, we must agree, in all matters, to promote and 
protect the human rights and peaceful existence of all 
the  people  of  the  world.  Discussion,  not  weapons,  is 
the best way to resolve differences and uphold human 
rights.
Let  me  interject  here  that  as  we  witness  so  many 
areas of conflict on our planet, I think it is time for all of 
us, as leaders, to use this great institution and our own 
efforts to condemn violence against people, including 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  for  any  reason,  and  to 
seek  an  end  to  armed  conflict  wherever  we  can.  The 
events in Kenya are but one of a series of violent acts 
against people that we must work together to eliminate.
Our  global  warming  doomsday  is  already  set 
in  stone  if  we  fail  to  act.  It  is  therefore  our  job  as 
leaders  to  take  all  necessary  action  to  eliminate  the 
current  threat.  My  country,  along  with  other  Pacific 
island  nations,  is  unwilling  even  to  discuss  a  3°C-to-
5°C  temperature-increase  scenario  by  the  end  of  the 
century,  for  that  will  ensure  our  demise.  We  are  also 
unwilling to discuss the issue of migration. Instead, we 
will  continue  to  work  with  our  developed  partners  to 
implement strong mitigation commitments and follow-
through  action  to  hold  the  line  on  that  increase  to  a 
more realistic 1.5°C level.
in 
My  small  Pacific  country  supports  the  concepts 
inherent 
the  Majuro  Declaration  for  Climate 
Leadership, issued at the Pacific Island Forum this year. 
The Declaration acknowledges the gross insufficiency 
of current efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. 
It also recognizes the necessity of ramping up climate 
change responses immediately and provides a platform 
for  country  leaders  to  establish  new  and  realistic 
reduction  commitments.  As  leaders,  we  must  all 
respond to global warming in both the short and long 
term, from the top down and the bottom up, both pre-
2020 and post-2020.
We  should  not  forget,  however,  that  the  primary 
responsibility for reducing greenhouse gases still rests 
with  our  developed  partners.  We  must  therefore  use 
the opportunity of the nineteenth session of the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
13-48569
5/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
to  be  held  in  Warsaw,  and  thereafter,  to  support  the 
technical  work  needed  to  fast-track  the  policies  and 
technologies appropriate to accomplishing our goal; to 
revive the Kyoto Protocol or develop a more responsive 
alternative,  and  deliver  and  expand  on  commitments 
to  reduce  greenhouse  gases;  to  phase  out  inefficient 
fossil-fuel  subsidies  that  distort  world  oil  prices;  and 
to arrive at a legally binding agreement to respond to 
and  compensate  for  loss  and  damage  associated  with 
the impact of climate change in vulnerable countries.
Here at the United Nations in New York, we must 
deal with global warming security issues by appointing 
a special representative on climate and security to help 
expand our understanding of the security dimensions of 
climate change, and by establishing a joint task force, 
led  by  the  Secretary-General,  to  assess  and  expand 
United  Nations  capacity  to  respond  to  the  security 
implications  of  climate  change.  We  must  make  2014 
the year of ambition. As host of the forty-fifth Pacific 
Islands  Forum,  Palau  pledges  to  use  that  summit  to 
build  on  the  Majuro  Declaration  and  to  drive  greater 
action. As leaders, we must also come to the Secretary-
General’s  climate  change  summit  next  year  ready  to 
discuss the new mitigation actions we are prepared to 
take and the plans necessary to see that they are fully 
implemented.
My country is trying with all its might to embrace 
its leadership on issues of sustainable development. To 
date, Palau has committed to providing 20 per cent of 
its  energy  through  renewable  sources  by  2020  and  to 
reducing  energy  consumption  through  efficiency  and 
conservation efforts. We have also declared and begun 
to implement the Micronesia Challenge, which commits 
the Micronesian region to effectively conserving at least 
30 per cent of near-shore marine resources and 20 per 
cent of terrestrial resources by 2020. In that effort, Palau 
and other Micronesian jurisdictions have strengthened 
or  established  more  than  150  protected  and  managed 
areas covering more than 680,000 hectares, leveraged 
more than $20 million in operational funds and inspired 
other  efforts,  such  as  the  Caribbean  Challenge,  the 
Coral Triangle initiative and the Western Indian Ocean 
Coastal Challenge.
In  addition,  we  have  recently  sponsored  the 
creation  of  a  Pacific  Islands  Forum  invasive  species 
advisory  group  to  improve  regional  efforts  to  reduce 
the  expansion  of  invasive  species  throughout  the 
Pacific. Palau has also pioneered the planet’s first shark 
sanctuary and, finally, recently engaged to pursue our 
most  ambitious  commitment  to  date  —  establishing 
the  world’s  first  comprehensive  marine  sanctuary, 
which  will  close  Palau’s  exclusive  economic  zone  to 
commercial fishing. We ask all the nations of the world 
to move in a similar direction, while recognizing their 
own unique circumstances, to help protect our planet’s 
natural  resources.  An  example  of  one  simple  action 
that  would  have  a  major  impact  on  saving  our  shark 
population would be the prohibition of shark’s fin soup. 
That is something that everyone in the world can clearly 
do without.
We  are  at  a  historic  global  moment.  A  year  from 
now,  the  United  Nations  will  launch  the  sustainable 
development  goals,  in  a  framework  that  will  define 
the  relationship  between  our  peoples  and  our  planet 
for generations to come. Through those goals, we must 
commit to a more sustainable use of the oceans. They 
cover  two-thirds  of  the  world’s  surface  and  connect 
90  per  cent  of  its  population.  A  billion  people  are 
dependent on their fish. The oceans’ health is undeniably 
linked  to  our  culture,  societies  and  economies.  Yet 
in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the 
oceans received no mention. As the MDGs wind down 
in 2015, we need a new paradigm.
It  is  therefore  time  to  enunciate  our  commitment 
to our oceans with a sustainable development goal that 
deals exclusively with them. Drawing from the lessons 
learned from the MDGs, we as leaders must create a goal 
that is resonant, measurable and easily communicated. 
Failure to do so will leave us naked before the shifting 
tides.  In  our  sustainable  development  goals,  we  must 
also  focus  on  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs), 
which cause two-thirds of the world’s 57 million deaths 
annually. Within that context, we should also recognize 
that  tobacco  consumption,  which  was  not  included  in 
the MDGs, has a direct impact on worsening NCDs and 
must therefore be separately targeted.
None  of  our  leadership  goals  can  be  achieved 
without  strong  partnerships.  Fortunately,  Palau  has 
been  blessed  over  the  last  half-century  with  strong 
regional  and  international  partners.  I  would  first  like 
to acknowledge the more than 50 years of support and 
leadership shown to us by the United States. We stand 
with the United States in its ongoing efforts to guide the 
international response to the horrific actions in Syria. 
We  are  also  grateful  for  its  very  generous  economic 
support over the years, and for being a reliable ally on 
which  we  can  depend.  We  look  forward  to  the  final 
6/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
completion of the treaty that will renew and reinforce 
our relationship.
Palau would also like to acknowledge the significant 
support we have received over the years from our friend 
Japan. We are hopeful that expansion and reform of the 
Security Council will result in permanent membership 
of  the  Council  for  Japan.  In  addition,  we  would  like 
to  thank  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  for  its 
friendship  and  economic  support  in  helping  Palau  to 
achieve its Millennium Development Goals and move 
on to the post-2015 development agenda through grants 
and technical assistance in the areas of infrastructure, 
food  security  enhancement  and  human  capacity.  We 
strongly  support  Taiwan’s  expanded  participation  in 
the United Nations system, acknowledge the expansion 
of  its  meaningful  participation  in  United  Nations 
specialized agencies and mechanisms, and call on the 
United Nations system to accept Taiwan’s participation 
as a valuable contributor to our collective efforts.
Beginning with the leadership of those assembled 
here, and working down to every level of international 
action and cooperation, we can respond, in a timely and 
expedited fashion, to the real emergencies we face. But 
the time for excuses is over. It is now time for leaders 
to lead.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Palau for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Union of the Comoros.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ikililou 
Dhoinine, President of the Union of the Comoros, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Dhoinine  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  convey  to  the  United  States  authorities 
our  full  gratitude  for  the  always  warm  and  fraternal 
hospitality  they  show  us  at  this  great  annual  event  in 
New  York  at  the  United  Nations.  I  also  express  my 
sincere congratulations to the President, and I wish him 
every success and an excellent conduct of the work of 
the Assembly at its sixty-eighth session on the post-2015 
development agenda. Finally, on behalf of my delegation 
and myself, I join the other heads of delegations present 
in  the  Hall  to  express  my  full  gratitude  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-Moon for his willingness to serve our 
world with the commitment and self-sacrifice for which 
he is known. 
At a time when the world is facing the most serious 
kinds  of  crises,  blind  barbaric  terrorist  acts,  which 
we  strongly  condemn,  have  just  been  perpetrated  in 
Kenya, claiming dozens of innocent victims, including 
women and children. At a time when armed conflicts 
are challenging our common abilities to build a world 
where  peace  reigns,  the  crisis  that  has  been  evolving 
in  Syria  for  two  and  a  half  years,  with  its  litany  of 
distress and human tragedy, should call on us to reach 
an early settlement of the conflict and put an end to the 
suffering  of  the  Syrian  people.  We  strongly  condemn 
the use of chemical weapons in Syria against innocent 
populations, 
the 
perpetrators of that horrible act. 
just  as  we  vigorously  condemn 
Let me formally draw our attention to other crises 
and other evils that, while they may appear to us to be 
minor  or  insignificant,  are  also  every  bit  as  serious. 
They  are  serious  particularly  because  they  lead  to  a 
heavy loss of human lives and, for those who live with 
them  daily,  they  frequently  give  rise  to  frustration, 
scorn and a sense of abandonment. 
At the same time, those other evils actually should 
not  even  exist,  because  it  was  together  in  the  United 
Nations that our predecessors unanimously, in a spirit 
of the equality of peoples, universal justice, fairness and 
humanism, decided with an open heart and free spirit to 
make humankind more harmonious for the well-being 
of  our  species.  Indeed,  it  was  our  Organization  that 
decided to decolonize all territories under the colonial 
yoke. It set the rules, laid out a path, and supported the 
peoples to be freed. 
Let me also pay tribute to the permanent members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  to  all  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  for  the  responsible  attitude  they 
13-48569
7/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
have  demonstrated  since  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations  to  the  present  time  in  supporting  national 
liberation movements and organizations, particularly in 
our continent of Africa. It is, however, regrettable that, 
68 years after its inception and after the adoption of the 
Charter, the Assembly continues to bear witness today 
to  a  situation  in  which  the  territory  of  a  small  island 
State  —  in  this  case  my  own  country,  the  Comoro 
Archipelago  —  remains  under  the  thumb  of  another 
State, a major Power and a permanent member of the 
Security Council — the State of France. 
the 
independence  of 
And yet the Organization came out unequivocally 
in  favour  of 
the  Comoro 
Archipelago, in accordance with resolutions 1514 (XV) 
of 14 December 1960 on the Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the Plan of 
Action for the Full Implementation of the Declaration 
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries 
and  Peoples.  Furthermore,  resolutions  3161  (XXVIII) 
of 14 December 1973 and 3291 (XXIX) of 13 December 
1974 reaffirm the unity and territorial and integrity of 
the  Comorian  islands  and  the  inalienable  right  of  its 
people to self-determination and independence.
Thus, the Security Council, through its unanimous 
adoption of resolution 376 (1975) of 17 October 1975, 
recommended  to  the  General  Assembly  that  the 
Comoros  be  admitted  to  membership  in  the  United 
Nations. The Comoros therefore became a Member of 
the  United  Nations,  under  resolution  3385  (XXX)  of 
12 November 1975, which reaffirms the need to respect 
the  unity  and  integrity  of  the  Comoro  Archipelago, 
composed of the islands of Anjouan, Grande Comore, 
Mayotte and Mohéli. I recall that all Member countries, 
including  the  European  countries,  voted  in  favour  of 
that resolution. France did not oppose it.
Can  those  who  lead  our  States  and  Governments, 
guarantors  of  the  independence  and  integrity  of  their 
territory,  imagine  the  frustration  and  moral  torture 
of a Head of State who has to deal with such a tragic 
situation  on  a  daily  basis?  In  addressing  them,  I  am 
letting  my  heart  speak.  They  may  rest  assured  that 
all  my  fellow  citizens  do  the  same  daily.  What  have 
we, the Comorian people, done that is so serious that 
history does not treat us as it does all other peoples of 
the world? Why must we time and time again explain 
or justify the united nature of our people, its history, its 
geography or its culture? Moreover, when some seek to 
persuade us that it is because a part of our population 
supposedly expressed a desire to remain colonized, we 
sincerely wonder if they are trying to relive the Berlin 
Conference of 1885. 
If that were indeed the case, are we to understand 
that  these  same  people  would  seek  to  raise  that  issue 
with  all  peoples  who  wish  to  remain  themselves  or 
change their destiny? Since it is the desire of all people 
to  strive  for  freedom,  what  would  happen  if  one  day 
the Comorian people of Mayotte called for its freedom 
from  France?  What  a  historical  inconsistency  that 
would be, and what norms of international law would 
the Organization act on?
Since 6 July 1975, the date on which my country, 
the  Comoros  Archipelago,  acceded  to  its  sovereignty, 
the  Comorians  have  continued  to  call  simply  for  the 
implementation of international law. They have done so 
in vain. And yet, in other similar cases, certain major 
Powers demand compliance with the same international 
law and win their case. Thus, the movement of peoples 
among the islands of the Comoros Archipelago, which 
is an inalienable right, is impeded by an unfathomable 
and unacceptable decision of the French authorities who, 
in 1994, imposed a visa on travel between Mayotte and 
the three other Comorian islands. That visa system has 
to date led to the death of nearly 10,000 of my fellow 
citizens, making the strait that separates Mayotte and 
the  other  islands  the  largest  marine  cemetery  in  the 
world.  Our  common  conscience  requires  that  we  act 
quickly.
forums, 
including 
In  all 
international 
the 
United  Nations,  the  international  community,  while 
recognizing  the  right  of  the  Comorians  to  recover 
their  territorial  integrity,  has  repeatedly  called  upon 
the  two  parties  involved,  the  Comoros  and  France,  to 
enter  into  negotiations  in  order  to  find  a  lasting  and 
equitable solution to this unfortunate territorial dispute 
in  accordance  with  international  law.  Each  of  my 
predecessors  in  turn  undertook  negotiations  with  the 
French  State,  but  it  is  undeniable  that  we  are  still  at 
square one.
Since  I  was  elected  President  of  the  Republic,  I 
have thought a great deal about the issue and consulted 
widely.  The  responsibilities  I  have  assumed  require 
changing  a  game  that  has  remained  unchanged  now 
for 38 years. After an initial meeting with my French 
counterpart, President François Hollande, in Kinshasa, 
on  the  sidelines  of  the  Summit  of  La  Francophonie,  I 
understood that the new French authorities were at long 
last ready to find a solution to the issue of the Comoros. 
8/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
I noted and acknowledge that France today is prepared 
to play its historic role as a State that is respectful of 
international law, regardless of what that law may say 
on  any  particular  subject.  What  France  has  recently 
done for Mali is the most eloquent example of that. 
On that note, let me join the Malian authorities and 
people and the African continent in general to thank the 
French authorities who took the responsible decision to 
ensure that the armed forces of the Republic of Chad 
and  the  countries  in  the  West  African  region  join  the 
French armed forces in helping Mali recover its unity 
and territorial integrity. I take this opportunity also to 
welcome the presence among us here of His Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic 
of Mali, and express our joy in sharing with the brother 
people  of  Mali  the  sense  of  pride  at  their  having 
recovered the integrity of their territory.
the 
Move by the same ideal and the same hope of seeing 
my  country  recover  its  territorial  integrity,  I  warmly 
welcomed 
invitation  from  President  François 
Hollande  to  carry  out  a  working  visit  to  France  in 
order to undertake serious negotiations and give a new 
impetus to our relations, particularly on the issue of the 
Comorian island of Mayotte. In the wake of that visit, 
we  signed  and  issued  a  political  declaration,  the  so-
called  Paris  Declaration.  Before  my  visit,  I  consulted 
the Chairperson of the African Union Commission in 
order to ensure that our latest effort was in keeping with 
the  principles  upheld  by  our  continental  organization 
and also to consult her expertise. I take this opportunity 
to  express  all  our  gratitude  to  Ms.  Dlamini-Zuma, 
Chairperson of the African Union Commission, for her 
ongoing support to our country. 
In  thus  expressing  myself,  I  call  on  the  entire 
international community to bear witness to my request 
that  the  Secretary-General  provide  his  expertise, 
support  and  backing  throughout  the  negotiations  for 
the  new  dynamic  to  which  we  and  the  French  have 
resolutely committed. 
I would like to inform the General Assembly that 
the issue of Mayotte will henceforth be on our agenda 
every year and that we, the Comorian authorities, are 
commited to reporting every year on the course of the 
negotiations  until  a  lasting  settlement  is  found  to  the 
issue  of  the  sovereignty  of  my  country.  My  country 
calls  on  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
organizations with which we are affiliated — including 
the  African  Union,  the  International  Organization 
of  La  Francophonie,  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation, the Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  the  Indian  Ocean  Commission  —  to 
provide us with their full support during the negotiations.
A  high  joint  council,  the  follow-up  body  to  the 
Paris Declaration that I mentioned previously, will be 
established in the weeks ahead. It will begin its work 
this year by considering the problem of the movement 
of goods and persons in order to put an irreversible end 
to the human tragedies that daily afflict all Comorian 
families.
Never has our world has been so close to achieving 
the objective for which we, the world’s leaders, meet in 
this United Nations temple at least once a year. That goal, 
as the United Nations Charter stipulates, is to maintain 
international peace and security. It would therefore be 
appropriate for me, before I conclude my statement, to 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
that have led to considerable progress in Madagascar, 
thereby opening the path to the forthcoming presidential 
elections in that great brother country. 
In order to ensure that “The post-2015 development 
agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  which  is  the  theme  of  the 
sixty-eighth session, is not just one more pipe dream, 
we need to act quickly to shelter our peoples from fear 
and need. Let us dare to fight injustice. Let us dare to 
put an end to deadly conflict. Let us dare to make peace 
our daily struggle and our sole reason for being, so that 
humankind may live in harmony.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Union of the Comoros for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Evo Morales 
13-48569
9/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
Ayma, President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
wish to convey my greetings to the Secretary-General 
and all the Presidents, Heads of State, delegations and 
international  organizations  from  across  the  world.  I 
convey also my special greetings to those attending this 
annual general debate of the General Assembly.
We  are  here  once  again,  as  usual,  to  share 
experiences relating to leadership and to work for the 
sake of life, humanity, equality and social justice. But 
we are also here to express our profound differences as 
concerns life, peace and democracy. Over the past few 
days  I  have  been  listening  to  the  statements  made  by 
certain Powers, which leave a lot to be desired in terms 
of liberty, equality, dignity and sovereignty.
Thanks to the awareness of the Bolivian people, I 
have now held the presidency for almost eight years. In 
that time — despite the economic and financial crises in 
some so-called developed, industrialized and, I would 
even say, even exaggeratedly industrialized countries, 
because some Powers industrialize simply to put an end 
to life — we in Bolivia have an economic growth rate of 
4.8 per cent, on average. Previously it was just over 2 per 
cent under the economic policies of the free market and 
neoliberalism.  This  year  the  economic  growth  rate  is 
estimated at 6 per cent, at least, so we are doing well. 
I would like to point out that thanks to that economic 
growth, in the context of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) we have reduced poverty; we have met 
the  MDG  of  reducing  poverty  and  extreme  poverty. 
United  Nations  data  for  2011  indicates  that  that  year 
1 million Bolivian men and women entered the middle 
class. Bolivia has 10 million inhabitants, so that means 
that  10  per  cent  of  Bolivia’s  inhabitants  improved 
their  economic  status.  The  rate  of  undernutrition  for 
children  under  the  age  of  5  has  decreased  even  more 
than required by the related Millennium Development 
Goal. The literacy-rate goal for people between 15 and 
24 years of age was met, and UNESCO declared Bolivia 
a country free of illiteracy thanks to the cooperation of 
Cuba and Venezuela, which have been working with us 
since 2006-2007.
The Goal on coverage in terms of maternal health 
has been reached, and maternal and child mortality has 
decreased.  Thanks  to  that  economic  growth  we  have 
been able to create vouchers for pregnant women and 
for  children  under  2  years  of  age,  which  has  made 
possible  a  decrease  in  maternal  and  child  mortality. 
Coverage in terms of potable water has increased. For 
example, we created a programme entitled “My water 
(more investment for water)”. I must thank the Andean 
Development  Corporation  and 
the  Inter-American 
Development  Bank  for  their  contributions.  With  their 
funding we put together “My water” I and II, and we 
are  now  on  the  third  programme,  with  $300,000  per 
municipality in rural areas. That has made it possible 
for us to provide some municipalities with 100 per cent 
coverage in terms of potable water.
I have just come from a major event in the department 
of  Santa  Cruz,  where  I  visited  several  municipalities. 
In  two  of  them,  the  mayors  —  who  are  not  from  the 
party in power but from other parties  — told me that 
“My water” III will result in 100 per cent of the local 
population  having  drinking  water.  We  have  made 
advances in that area. Investment in water is a blessing 
for life. It means minimizing disease, because potable 
water helps people avoid contracting diseases. 
I would like all here to know that we have been able 
to achieve this thanks to a State that lives in conditions 
of  sovereignty  and  dignity.  Why  am  I  saying  this? 
Because previously, politically we were subject to the 
American empire. The embassies of the United States 
decided who would be minister. Economically, we were 
subject to the International Monetary Fund. From the 
time we arrived, we have said “Enough!” to submitting 
to international organizations and to the United States 
embassy.  Previously,  for  any  loan,  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  set  conditionalities,  blackmailing  the 
various Governments. Those conditionalities involved 
our  giving  up  our  natural  resources  to  transnational 
companies,  so  that  Bolivia  would  privatize  basic 
services.  But  basic  services  are  a  human  right  and 
cannot be private property. So when we freed ourselves 
politically and economically, we started to do better.
One of the policies we adopted was to nationalize 
hydrocarbons —  gas  and  oil.  I  want  the  Assembly  to 
know, just to share a small experience, that previously 
State contracts with transnational oil companies stated 
that the bearer acquired the right to the land at the mouth 
of  the  well.  When  union  leaders  asked  Governments 
why the gas and oil were not the property of Bolivians, 
they told us that as long as they were underground they 
belonged to the Bolivians, but once they were out of the 
ground that was no longer the case. They invented this 
title business for the land at the mouth of the well. 
10/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
In  addition,  82  per  cent  of  the  benefits  went  to 
transnationals, especially in mega-oilfields, and 18 per 
cent to Bolivians. It was looting, it was theft. But since 
we  nationalized  hydrocarbons,  I  must  say  that  we 
have  really  begun  to  improve  the  economic  situation 
and  the  social  conditions  in  our  country.  Just  one 
example:  oil  income  in  2005,  before  I  was  President, 
was $300 million. This year, thanks to nationalization 
and the fight waged by social movements, oil sales will 
total more than $5 billion. Last year we almost reached 
$5  billion.  That  figure  continues  to  grow  with  new 
investments,  and  today  we  have  reached  the  stage  of 
giving added value to those natural resources.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  I  am  not  an  expert  in 
politics  or  in  economic  matters.  But  I  am  here  at  the 
request of the Bolivian people, learning daily about the 
needs, problems and demands of my people, the people 
of Bolivia.
I would therefore also like to say that this joint work 
with  the  social  movements,  which  are  the  organized 
representatives  of  the  people,  is  going  well.  I  would 
like  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  to 
know that we have issued a directive and are working 
on the patriotic agenda for 2025. What exactly is that 
agenda about? As Bolivia was founded in 1825, the year 
2025 will be our bicentennial as a republic, while we 
are now a plurinational State. We are working with all 
social movements and authorities, be they local mayors 
or provincial Governments, to establish a medium- and 
long-term plan that will make it possible to guarantee a 
future for the generations to come.
Besides local issues, there are also pending regional 
issues,  such  as  the  one  between  Bolivia  and  Chile  on 
sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  An  invasion 
began  on  14  February  1879,  which  on  23  March  of 
the  same  year  gave  rise  to  a  limited  resistance.  Who 
invaded  us?  It  was  the  Chilean  oligarchy  of  the  time, 
along with British companies. We lost our access to the 
sea,  and  many  meetings  have  been  subsequently  held 
on the issue. An unfair treaty was imposed on us, and it 
was not observed. 
I want the Assembly to be aware of the following. 
In  a  number  of  meetings  with  former  Presidents  and 
with  the  latest  brotherly  President  of  Chile,  we  have 
tried  to  reach  an  understanding.  However,  there  has 
never been an official proposal to resolve the issue of 
the Bolivian people’s irrevocable right to return to the 
Pacific with sovereignty. 
What did the President of Chile say in September 
2010  when  he  addressed  the  General  Assembly  here 
in  New  York  (see  A/65/PV.12)?  He  said  that  treaties 
were  inviolable  and  they  must  not  be  touched.  On 
28 January 2013, during the summit of the Community 
of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  States  (CELAC) 
in  Santiago,  President  Piñera  Echeñique  said  that  of 
course  treaties  could  be  perfected.  First,  he  said  they 
were  untouchable,  and  then  he  said  they  could  be 
perfected. That shows that this issue is on his mind and 
that it needs to be resolved. 
On 17 December 2012, Piñera Echeñique publicly 
stated that Chile would ensure respect not only for the 
treaties  it  had  signed,  but  also  its  sovereignty,  with 
all  the  strength  in  the  world.  But  in  January  at  the 
CELAC  summit  President  Piñera  Echeñique  said  that 
sovereignty  could  not  be  touched  unless  economic 
interests  were  at  stake.  On  22  September  2011,  at  the 
General  Assembly  President  Piñera  Echeñique  said 
that  there  were  no  ongoing  territorial  issues  between 
Chile  and  Bolivia  (see  A/66/PV.15).  However,  on 
2  February  2013,  in  an  interview  with  La  Tercera,  a 
Chilean newspaper, he recognized the following: Chile 
has offered Bolivia autonomy in a territorial enclave. In 
other words, he is trying to resolve the issue. But that 
proposal has never been made official. 
There  is  a  fourth  contradiction.  On  11  November 
2012,  at  the  Ibero-American  Summit  held  in  Cadiz, 
Spain,  the  President  of  Chile  said  that  Chile  would 
demand that a valid treaty that was still in force — the 
treaty of 1904 — be respected, and that any conversation 
about the matter must be bilateral in nature: it did not 
belong in a multilateral forum such as that in which we 
are participating today. 
What did the President of Chile say on 2 February 
2013? He said that the possibility of a gateway to the 
sea without sovereignty, north of Arica, will come to an 
end if Peru won at The Hague. Another contradiction: 
in  June  2013,  President  Sebastián  Piñera  Echeñique 
said  that  Chile  had  the  right  to  defend  its  territory, 
sea  and  sovereignty  with  strength  and  conviction  and 
that Chile was a country that would never bend in the 
legitimate  defence  of  its  territory.  In  June,  he  said 
that  Chile  would  not  cede  to  the  Bolivian  position 
while President Morales continued to belittle him. On 
7  September  2013,  he  said  that,  naturally,  they  would 
respect  the  ruling  from  The  Hague.  When  it  came  to 
the  ruling  from  The  Hague,  they  were  a  country  that 
respected rulings. 
13-48569
11/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
I  simply  wanted  to  state  that  to  avoid  conflict. 
Since its foundation as a plurinational State, Bolivia has 
been by nature a peaceful State. With all due respect, 
I would like to inform members that we have turned to 
international courts. We have requested the International 
Court  of  Justice  to  declare  that  the  Republic  of  Chile 
has  an  obligation  to  effectively  negotiate,  in  a  timely 
fashion and in good faith, sovereign access to the Pacific 
Ocean  in  order  to  re-establish  Bolivia’s  past,  present 
and future rights to the sea. I want members to be aware 
that this request cannot and should not be interpreted as 
an act of hostility. On the contrary, it is a demonstration 
of Bolivia’s respect and confidence in the mechanisms 
for the peaceful settlement of international disputes. 
Members  cannot  imagine  how  much  damage  we 
have suffered, economically and geographically, or the 
damage that has been done to the people of Bolivia and 
to our past and future generations, by the 1879 invasion. 
Our grandparents continue to ask us when we are going 
to go back to the sea, because Bolivia was born with an 
outlet to the Pacific Ocean. So that everyone is aware: 
we are seeking a peaceful solution to this dispute. 
We  have  heard  the  various  statements  made  over 
the past few days. One cannot listen to every single one 
of them, but I want to say that, while we are working 
to  eliminate  extreme  poverty,  we,  the  Heads  of  State 
and Government, are also working for peace with social 
justice.  Nevertheless,  a  handful  of  Powers  promote 
wars, armed conflict and military intervention without 
respecting even international organizations. 
We  have  heard  here  statements  about  freedom, 
democracy,  peace,  justice  and  security.  As  peoples 
who  have  been  the  subject  of  interventions  and  have 
been exploited, marginalized and robbed of our natural 
resources by the empires of the time, we wonder what 
democracy,  what  peace  and  what  social  justice  some 
Presidents who come here are talking about. We witness 
Presidents and their retinues blocking airspace and not 
providing guarantees of our attendance to this forum, 
for example. How can they speak of democracy, when 
the  spy  services  of  the  United  States  violate  human 
rights and the privacy and security of other States while 
using private companies? It turns out that they spy not 
only on democratic Governments, but even on their own 
allies, their own citizens and the United Nations itself. 
Well, fine, let them spy on us anti-imperialist Presidents 
and Governments. But spying on the United Nations? 
Spying on their allies? I feel that there is a great deal of 
overweening arrogance towards humankind.
That  is  why  we  continue  to  speak  out.  Not  only 
do they spy, they also hatch coups d’état. What peace 
can we speak of when military spending sacrifices the 
human  rights  of  our  peoples?  I  would  like  to  ask  the 
people  of  the  United  States:  How  is  it  possible,  when 
there are so many people out of work, for their country’s 
Government  and  President  to  spend  $700  billion  on 
the  military  and  espionage  annually,  when  there  are 
so many of our brothers in the United States who are 
homeless  and  jobless  and  without  an  education?  One 
cannot understand how that country can spend so much 
money  interfering  with  other  countries  while  leaving 
its own unprovided for.
They  talk  to  us  of  human  rights  while  torture  is 
being  carried  out  in  the  prisons  of  Guantánamo  and 
on military bases in the Middle East, and while union 
and  political  leaders  who  do  not  share  imperialist 
and capitalist views are also tortured. I would like to 
say  to  the  United  States  that  it  must  not  believe  it  is 
master  of  the  world.  It  is  mistaken.  Furthermore,  it 
signs agreements yet refuses to sign some of the most 
important  treaties  in  the  world.  It  does  not  respect 
United Nations resolutions.
The  security  of  the  empire  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism  have  become  the  biggest  excuse  and  tool 
for  unilateral  military  intervention.  Terrorism  cannot 
be  combated  through  more  military  spending  and 
interventions  or  the  training  of  military  forces.  As 
far as I know, the way to fight terrorism is with social 
policies,  not  military  bases;  with  religious  tolerance, 
more  democracy,  more  equality  of  justice  and  more 
education. 
What  country  is  free  from  problems?  Of  course 
there are differences. The best thing to do is to provide 
means, even if not all our Governments have the same 
economic policies. Capitalism wants to emerge from its 
crisis through war and armed intervention. We must ask 
ourselves who benefits from the wars. Who distributes 
the  natural  resources  after  an  intervention?  Whose 
hands do they end up in, once countries are bombed? 
Who is really governing in the United States, I wonder? 
Is it its citizens, or the companies that promote wars? 
From outside, at least — I am not an ambassador living 
in the United States — what we see is that those who 
finance  political  and  election  campaigns  are  bankers 
and  big  businessmen,  and  they  are  the  ones  setting 
policy.
Those who govern cannot be mistaken or confused 
about  the  conflict  in  Syria.  Naturally,  we  are  against 
12/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  and  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  But  who  possesses  the  greatest  nuclear 
arsenal?  Who 
invented  chemical  weapons?  Who 
industrialized those weapons that end human lives? In 
my region, at least, things are perfectly clear. We know 
whose  hands  they  are  in,  where  they  come  from  and 
who produces them. 
of fighting drug trafficking than the way imposed by 
the DEA and the United States. I welcome the fact that 
the United Nations has acknowledged the decrease in 
drug trafficking in Bolivia, but it has not been certified 
by  the  Government  of  the  United  States.  Who  should 
we believe, the United States or the United Nations? I 
leave it up to the Assembly.
Democracies do not wage war. What we are seeing 
is that those who make the decisions about wars are the 
arms industry, the financial system and oil companies. 
Plutocracy has become a substitute for democracy. The 
Government of the rich and powerful decides the fate of 
the world. We are facing a new moment in the imperial 
geopolitical disposition — and I do not wish to revisit 
how Latin America and the Caribbean, like Africa and 
the Middle East, were at one time carved up by various 
imperial Powers, who were interested not in resolving 
issues  of  poverty,  democracy  and  equality  but  rather 
in those countries’ natural resources — and now, once 
again,  those  Powers  wish  to  divide  it  all  up  through 
military intervention and with military bases.
Another subject being debated is the colonization 
of space, as we have seen in recent years. Those who 
believe  they  are  the  masters  of  the  world  have  told 
us  that  their  power  has  no  limits  and  that  they  can 
intervene wherever they feel like. Again, I wonder what 
the United Nations is for. What do we have treaties and 
conventions for? What use is multilateralism? Human 
multilateralism we welcome; inhuman interventionism 
will be combated by people all over the world. I believe 
that as a union leader and as someone from one of the 
most humiliated sectors in the history of Latin America, 
the indigenous peasant peoples.
War is a business for capitalism. There can be no 
peace without justice; there can be no equality as long 
as the business of war has pride of place. It starts and 
wages wars for its businesses. That is why I believe it is 
important at this event to consider such issues in depth.
Another  instrument  of  domination  is  the  fight 
against drug trafficking. But I have to say that despite 
the  efforts  of  the  Bolivian  people  and  Government, 
there  are  certain  Powers  that  do  not  shoulder  their 
responsibilities  in  combating  the  traffic  in  drugs, 
because the drug market is in the capitalist countries. 
Since  we  got  rid  of  the  Drug  Enforcement  Agency 
(DEA)  and  launched  our  own  national  policy  —  and 
thanks to some of our neighbours, such as Argentina, 
Brazil and Chile, to which I am grateful for their joint 
efforts — we have seen improvements and a better way 
I  have  felt  somewhat  insecure  when  it  comes  to 
visiting  the  United  Nations  in  New  York,  which  is 
why  we  should  think  seriously  about  changing  the 
location of the Headquarters of the Organization. The 
Headquarters  of  the  United  Nations  should  be  in  the 
territory  of  a  State  that  has  ratified  all  the  treaties 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations.  As  the  Assembly  is 
aware, the Government has never ratified the treaties on 
human rights or the rights of Mother Earth. They do not 
guarantee us visas or overflights. I offer my solidarity 
with  my  friend  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of 
Venezuela. How can we be sure that a meeting of the 
United  Nations  here  in  New  York  is  secure?  Perhaps 
some  of  us  do,  but  those  of  us  who  do  not  share  the 
views  of  imperialism  and  capitalism  feel  completely 
insecure. 
I would just like to say, though not out of fear, that 
we should not be complicit in such an arrogant attitude 
to  the  peoples  of  the  world.  How  can  we  genuinely 
believe  in  the  United  Nations  if  we  do  not  respect 
resolutions — for example, those ending the economic 
blockade of Cuba. There are only two or three countries 
that  do  not  vote  to  end  it.  Most  of  us  welcome  it  and 
vote  for  the  resolution  every  time.  But  if  it  is  not 
implemented and not respected, then why are we here 
at the United Nations?
Furthermore,  I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that  everyone  knows  that  the  United  States  harbours 
terrorists,  criminals  and  the  corrupt.  They  escape 
from  Bolivian  justice  and  arrive  here.  The  United 
States Government is not assisting in the fight against 
corruption. What kind of an agreement could we then 
have in the fight against corruption? 
Beyond 
that, 
the  United  States  accuses 
the 
Governments  of  other  countries.  It  accuses  Cuba,  of 
promoting terrorism. How can Cuba do that? Perhaps it 
is due to such accusations that only 60 or 70 Presidents, 
of the more than 190, have come here. I feel that such 
policies scare off Presidents. Who will come next year 
to vote, when resolutions are never respected? 
13-48569
13/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
That reason, and many others, should encourage us 
to  consider  changing  the  Headquarters  of  the  United 
Nations.  I  do  not  expect  it  to  be  Bolivia,  or  South 
America. There are countries that have ratified all of the 
human rights treaties. That is where the Headquarters 
of the United Nations should be located.
There is blackmail when it comes to visas. I had to 
wait for a visa in order to come here, and then it was 
for only four, five or six days — no more. What good 
is  such  a  visa?  One  has  to  watch  the  clock  and  when 
to  leave,  because  the  visa  will  be  taken  from  us.  We 
are being threatened, intimidated and blackmailed with 
visas.
If the Assembly is here to seriously discuss the well-
being  of  humankind,  perhaps  my  country  can  share 
with  some  who  are  present  here  the  idea  of  seriously 
considering  establishing  a  tribunal  of  the  peoples, 
including major international organizations that defend 
human rights, to begin an investigation of the Obama 
Government. 
I  was  surprised  by  the  words  of  United  States 
President Obama at the start of his term. It struck me 
when  he  stated,  “I  was  elected  to  end  wars”.  Those 
were his words, found in newspapers, on radio and on 
television. I said to myself, this fraternal President of 
the United States originates from a family that suffered 
from discrimination like me. We are going to agree and 
we will put an end to war. I was deeply struck by that. 
Now we are seeing the exact opposite. Perhaps it is due 
to the Nobel Peace Prize. We congratulate him. In the 
end, however, it is a Nobel Peace Prize, rather than a 
Nobel war prize. 
What is the basis for a trial? It certainly includes 
crimes  against  humanity  and  the  bombing  of  Libya. 
I  would  like  to  know  who  owned  the  oil  in  Libya 
beforehand? Who owns it now? Previously, at the least, 
the people of Libya benefited from that oil, but how is it 
being managed and used now? What happened in Iraq? 
I  am  convinced  that  behind  any  war  or  intervention, 
a  plan  is  being  devised  on  how  to  later  seize  the 
natural resources. That was our experience in Bolivia. 
However,  we  have  recovered  our  natural  resources 
democratically,  without  bullets  but  with  votes,  not 
with money but based on the awareness of the Bolivian 
people. 
As for prosecuting acts of international terrorism, 
the  financing  of  terrorist  groups  and  the  arming  of 
opposition forces — once I expelled the United States 
Ambassador to Bolivia, I had no regrets. We are better 
off  now,  politically  and  democratically.  We  are  now 
ending our cooperation with the United States Agency 
for International Development, which had been plotting. 
We  want  and  welcome  cooperation,  so  long  as  it  is 
unconditional  and  free  of  blackmail  or  preconditions 
involving  Presidents  or  the  privatization  of  natural 
resources and basic services. 
Imagine  the  damage  inflicted  on  a  country  by 
an economic blockade. It is the best tool of genocide. 
Therefore, if we are truly responsible for the well-being 
of  humankind,  if  we  are  responsible  for  truth,  justice 
and peace, then we must organize to fight back so that 
no president — from South America, the Middle East 
or anywhere else in the world — will ever again cause 
harm to life or to humankind. 
Like  previous  debates  here  —  on  the  financial, 
climate, economic and food crises — the Assembly is 
now  addressing  the  issue  of  interventionism.  As  long 
as  imperialism  and  capitalism  exist,  peace,  justice, 
liberty,  dignity  and  sovereignty  for  the  people  of  the 
world  will  never  be  possible.  I  am  convinced  of  that, 
because I have a little experience. We should therefore 
contemplate  a  world  free  of  oligarchies,  monarchies 
and  hierarchies,  and  then  consider  the  sort  of  human 
order we would want for the world.
All of us possess sovereignty and dignity, whether 
we are small and backwards — “developing”, as they 
call us — or whatever our situation. What damages the 
political class? Sometimes it is arrogance, the abuse of 
power and corruption. As Presidents of Governments, it 
is our obligation to fight against such policies that cause 
so much harm to the political class. It is our obligation 
to change the politics. In my experience, politics is not 
about business or profits. It is about service, commitment 
and  extending  the  greatest  effort  for  one’s  people.  If 
anyone thinks that politics involves business or profit, 
they are wrong. Such President or Government will not 
go far. If a Government allows bankers, financiers or 
multinational  corporations  to  govern,  it  is  mistaken. 
A Government must be controlled by a President who 
has been democratically elected by the people, with the 
participation  of  society  and  for  the  well-being  of  the 
majority of the people. 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  private  property  is 
respected. However, it is something else when economic 
policy  and  governing  are  considered  in  favour  of  the 
few,  rather  than  of  the  many.  With  my  little  bit  of 
experience,  therefore,  I  call  on  all  members  to  fight 
14/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
against the economic policies that cause great harm to 
humankind around the world. 
that  as 
long  as 
I  reiterate 
imperialism  and 
capitalism exist, the struggle will continue, the people 
will  continue  to  rise  up,  but  there  will  be  no  justice. 
Freeing ourselves from imperialism and capitalism will 
certainly  ensure  peace  and  social  justice  and  dignity 
and sovereignty for our peoples.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia for the statement he has just made.
His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
Constitutional President of the Plurinational State 
of Bolivia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Ali Zeidan, Prime Minister  
of Libya 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Libya.
Mr.  Ali  Zeidan,  Prime  Minister  of  Libya,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Zeidan, Prime Minister of Libya, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Zeidan (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I warmly congratulate Mr. John Ashe on his election as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  him  every 
success  in  his  endeavours.  I  also  wish  to  convey  my 
greetings  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to 
commend him and his team for the remarkable efforts 
they  continue  to  exert  in  the  realization  of  the  lofty 
purposes and principles that have been at the heart of 
the United Nations since its inception.
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  before  the  Assembly 
today on behalf of my country, the new Libya, which 
is  forging  ahead  towards  democracy,  establishing 
State  institutions,  the  rule  of  law,  development  and 
prosperity,  despite  the  range  of  political,  economic, 
social  and  cultural  difficulties  and  obstacles  we  face 
as a result of the burdensome legacy left behind by the 
dictatorial  regime.  I  wish  to  assure  the  international 
community,  and  the  United  Nations  in  particular, 
that  Libya  is  working  tirelessly,  with  confidence  and 
determination, to establish State laws and institutions, 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and the peaceful transfer of power, as well as to forge 
positive  partnerships  with  development  partners  that 
are  fully  respectful  of  the  interests  of  all  countries, 
including  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
other  States,  and  to  promote  peace  and  security  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
international laws and norms.
The people of Libya will always highly appreciate 
the important role played by the United Nations in the 
establishment of Libya, beginning with resolution 289 
(IV),  of  21  November  1949,  on  the  independence  of 
Libya,  through  to  the  Security  Council’s  adoption  of 
resolutions 1970 (2011) and 1973 (2011), to protect Libyan 
civilians and support the revolution of 17 February 2011. 
That positive role continues through the United Nations 
Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL), which is making 
commendable  and  praiseworthy  efforts  to  provide 
technical  advice  and  training,  raise  awareness  and 
build capacity in various sectors in order to advance the 
democratization  process,  achieve  justice  and  national 
reconciliation  and  rebuild  modern  State  institutions. 
UNSMIL has been crucial in launching and supporting 
a national dialogue, which will start in a few days. The 
Council of Ministers is now considering a draft law on 
victims of rape and violence during the dictatorial era 
and the liberation war. 
In  response  to  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions, we are cooperating with the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) in order to expand the scope of 
investigations into those who committed crimes against 
the Libyan people, through the implementation of the 
mechanisms  and  rulings  of  the  ICC  and  in  line  with 
national  legislation.  We  are  looking  forward  to  the 
cooperation  of  the  countries  concerned,  in  particular 
neighbouring countries, in surrendering and extraditing 
the wanted individuals of the former regime.
We  trust  that  an  understanding  will  be  reached 
with  the  United  Nations,  and  the  Security  Council 
in  particular,  with  regard  to  security  and  the  need  to 
impose control over our vast land and sea borders and 
to lift the ban on arms completely. Libya faces a broad 
range  of  problems  caused  by  illegal  migration.  This 
requires  efforts  to  be  coordinated  at  the  international 
and regional levels in order to find an urgent solution 
13-48569
15/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
and curb the phenomenon of illegal migration, ensure 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States,  promote  and 
ensure  the  rights  and  dignity  of  the  illegal  migrants 
themselves and enhance cooperation with international 
organizations.
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to  express  my 
sincere  gratitude  to  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration  for  its  cooperation  with  the  relevant 
international  institutions.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the 
European Union for its assistance to Libya in curbing 
the problem of illegal migration through its assistance 
to Libyan institutions in securing the vast borders.
Libya faces a number of security threats, including 
the illicit trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic 
substances, illegal migration and arms smuggling. That 
is  why  we  hosted  a  regional  ministerial  conference 
on border security in March 2012, which included the 
adoption of the Tripoli action plan for border cooperation 
and  the  establishment  of  mechanisms  and  structures 
for  cooperation  and  the  sharing  of  information  and 
experience in the field of border protection and control.
In addition, last spring, the Libyan city of Ghadames 
hosted  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Government  of 
Libya, Algeria and Tunisia to strengthen joint security 
operations  in  addressing  the  challenges  posed  by 
developments in the Sahel and Sahara regions.
We also contributed to the ministerial conference 
on support to Libya in the areas of security, justice and 
the  rule  of  law,  which  was  held  in  Paris  in  February 
at the initiative of the Libyan interim Government and 
with the support of the French and British Governments. 
Two action plans were adopted at that meeting on the 
development of the Libyan security and justice sectors.
The  interim  Government  is  sparing  no  efforts  in 
reactivating  the  role  of  the  Arab  Maghreb  group  to 
promote political, development and security cooperation 
and  to  promote  the  interests  of  all  countries  in  North 
Africa and the Arab Maghreb. Libya is taking all the 
necessary steps to get back on the path to development 
and to complete national projects in all sectors, which 
requires substantial funds. It is crucial that we recover 
the looted funds that were smuggled out of Libya. From 
this  rostrum,  I  reiterate  the  call  that  we  made  to  all 
States to cooperate with and help us locate and recover 
those funds.
We also emphasize our request to the countries in 
which there are Libyan investments to ensure the right 
of the Libyan State to those investments and to prevent 
any compromise thereof, especially in some countries 
in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America,  where  coercive 
measures  have  caused  significant  damage  to  those 
investments.
is  why  our  Government, 
My  country  attaches  great  importance  to  human 
rights  issues  and  to  the  process  of  safeguarding  and 
promoting  those  rights.  Preventing  any  violations 
in  this  area  is  therefore  a  priority  for  Libya’s  interim 
Government.  That 
in 
coordination  with  the  General  National  Congress, 
has taken a number of steps to that end. They include 
amending  or  repealing  legislation  that  is  inconsistent 
with the international obligations of the Libyan State in 
the field of human rights, as well as setting in motion 
a  process  of  constitutional  review  of  legislation  that 
runs  counter  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitutional 
Declaration. We are also taking steps to ratify or accede 
to  certain  international  human  rights  conventions, 
including the Convention on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities and its Optional Protocol. Preparations are 
under way to accede to other international agreements, 
such as the Optional Protocol to the Convention against 
Torture  and  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. 
A  further  step  includes  developing  a  practical 
mechanism  for  the  implementation  Human  Rights 
Council  decision  19/39,  in  order  to  provide  technical 
assistance  and  capacity-building  to  Libya  through 
direct cooperation between the Libyan Government and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  with  the  assistance  of  UNSMIL. 
We  are  also  establishing  a  ministerial  committee  to 
follow  up  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  Libya, 
headed  by  the  Minister  of  Justice  and  including  the 
deputy  ministers  of  the  interior,  defence  and  culture, 
as  well  as  representatives  of  civil  society.  We  are 
making  every  effort  to  prepare  for  the  visit  to  Libya 
by  High  Commissioner  Navi  Pillay  before  the  end 
of  this  year.  We  hope  that  the  visit  will  reinforce  the 
relationship between Libya and the Office of the High 
Commissioner, in the mutual interests of both.
Libya contributes very seriously to the international 
efforts  to  eliminate  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and  safeguard  international  peace  and  security,  and 
we  cooperate  fully  with  international  institutions 
and  organizations  in  this  field.  We  reiterate  the  call 
to  conclude  an  unconditional  and  legally  binding 
instrument to protect non-nuclear States from the threat 
or  use  of  nuclear  weapons,  pursuant  to  the  relevant 
16/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
General Assembly resolutions and in line with the 1996 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice 
on the Legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons
(A/51/218, annex).
I also reaffirm Libya’s full support for international 
efforts  aimed  at  establishing  additional  zones  free  of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction 
in  various  regions  of  the  world.  To  contribute  to 
the  achievement  of  that  goal,  Libya  is  working,  in 
coordination  with  its  brothers  in  the  League  of  Arab 
States, to convene a successful conference on making 
the  Middle  East  such  a  zone  —  a  conference  that, 
unfortunately,  has  been  postponed.  We  call  upon  the 
Secretary-General  and  other  organizing  parties  to 
make every effort, as stipulated in the 1995 resolution 
on the Middle East and the outcome document of the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to convene 
the conference before the end of 2013. We call upon all 
States concerned to participate in in the conference in 
order to ensure its success.
Libya  shares  the  concerns  of  the  international 
community concerning the scourge of terrorism, which 
is  not  exclusive  to  any  particular  religion,  nationality 
or  culture.  We  have  acceded  to  most  international 
instruments  on 
are 
cooperating with other countries in order to conclude a 
comprehensive convention on terrorism, in accordance 
with resolution 66/105.
combating 
terrorism 
and 
The  Palestinian  people  have  now  been  living  in 
truly tragic humanitarian conditions for more than six 
decades, starting with their expulsion from their homes 
and  continuing  with  the  annexation  of  most  of  their 
territory, the confiscation and levelling of their land and 
the demolition of their homes — all in flagrant violation 
of  international  humanitarian  laws  and  norms.  The 
time has now come for the international community to 
assume its responsibilities to put an end to this tragedy 
as  soon  as  possible  by  taking  urgent  and  decisive 
action  to  ensure  the  full  protection  of  the  Palestinian 
people and to put an end to their daily suffering and the 
injustice  done  to  them.  That  should  be  done  through 
a  comprehensive  solution  to  the  Palestinian  issue 
that  ends  the  occupation  and  enables  the  Palestinian 
people to regain their territory and establish their own 
independent Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as its capital, and makes it possible for all Palestinian 
refugees to return to their homes, in accordance with 
the relevant international resolutions.
The tragic developments taking place in Syria make 
it incumbent upon the international community to put 
an  end  to  that  human  tragedy  and  stop  the  bloodshed 
and  destruction.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  Security 
Council  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  concept  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  in  order  to  find  a  solution  to 
the problem, through consensus among its members, so 
as to save the Syrian people from the daily massacres 
and help them to achieve their legitimate demands.
Libya  once  again  calls  upon  the  international 
community and human rights institutions to put an end 
to the human tragedy being experienced by the Muslim 
Rohingya  minority  in  Myanmar  and  to  accelerate  the 
setting up of an international investigation committee 
to  bring  those  responsible  for  the  tragedy  before 
international justice, ensure the return of the displaced 
to their homes and provide compensation to the victims.
A revolution took place in Libya to put an end to 
despotism  and  dictatorship,  a  revolution  that  was  the 
result of deep and long suffering. I assure the Assembly 
that,  with  the  will  of  the  people  who  brought  about 
that  revolution,  our  Government  will  build  State 
institutions, uphold the rule of law, protect its borders, 
fulfil  its  promises,  honour  its  obligations  towards 
neighbouring countries and work for the promotion of 
peace and security. The revolution will achieve peace 
and security. I wish the Assembly every success at this 
session.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Libya for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ali  Zeidan,  Prime  Minister  of  Libya,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mrs. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming Her Excellency Mrs. Kamla 
Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
13-48569
17/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
Mrs. Persad-Bissessar (Trinidad and Tobago): This 
evening, as the Chairperson of the Conference of Heads 
of State and Government of the Caribbean Community 
(CARICOM),  I  am  very  delighted  and  honoured  to 
extend  to  President  Ashe  our  congratulations  on  his 
assumption of the position of President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  His  elevation  to 
preside  over  this  central  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
is  testimony  to  the  contribution  that  CARICOM,  as 
a  grouping  of  small  States,  continues  to  make  to  the 
advancement  of  the  global  agenda  for  peace,  security 
and development. Indeed, it is evidence of the principle 
of  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  States  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Nowhere  else  is 
that  principle  more  recognizable  than  in  the  General 
Assembly.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  confident  that  the 
President  will  discharge  his  mandate  with  distinction 
and in an impartial manner for the benefit of all States.
In  2000,  world  leaders  gathered  at  the  General 
Assembly  and  launched  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs), which were aimed at achieving specific 
targets  on  poverty  alleviation,  universal  education, 
gender equality, child and maternal health, combating 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, environmental 
sustainability,  and  partnership  for  development  by 
2015. At that time, there was renewed faith in the United 
Nations  as  the  vehicle  to  assist  developing  countries, 
especially the most vulnerable, in their efforts to help 
reduce poverty and hunger and to provide an enabling 
environment  to  assist  States,  working  as  partners,  to 
develop their economies so that their peoples may live 
in  conditions  free  of  persistent  poverty,  inadequate 
health care and other developmental ills. At that time, 
it  was  felt  that  a  new  chapter  was  beginning  for  the 
United Nations. It was now being seen as proactive and 
not reactive.
international  community  witnessed  since 
When  we  look  back  on  the  period  between 
2000  and  the  present,  what  is  the  reality?  What  has 
the 
the 
commitments  were  made  at  the  Millennium  Summit 
in  2000?  The  evidence  shows  that  progress  towards 
achieving  the  MDGs  has  been  uneven.  For  us  in 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  we  have  made  some  strides  in 
achieving  the  Goals  and,  indeed,  in  some  cases,  we 
have surpassed them. For example, with respect to the 
MDG related to education, not only have we achieved 
universal  primary  education,  we  have  also  achieved 
universal  secondary  education,  and  we  are  working 
towards achieving universal early childhood education. 
We  are  well  aware  that  a  number  of  countries 
are  not  on  track  to  realize  any  of  the  targets  set.  By 
2005,  and  again  in  2010,  it  was  evident  that  greater 
efforts were needed if developing countries as a whole 
were  to  meet  their  MDG  targets  by  the  deadline. 
However, despite numerous constraints in the difficult 
international  economic  and  financial  environment, 
developing countries have done much to finance their 
own  development.  In  contrast,  many  commentators 
have  asserted  that  developed  countries  have  not  done 
enough  to  honour  their  commitments  or  to  provide 
development  assistance  to  their  partners,  consistent 
with the agreement reached at the Millennium Summit. 
Arguably, some developed countries have not done 
enough  to  reform  their  trade,  tax  and  transparency 
policies. Moreover, insufficient attention has been paid 
to  appropriate  regulation  of  the  global  financial  and 
commodity markets. What has happened is that those 
in  turn  have  negatively  impacted  the  ability  of  many 
developing countries to achieve the MDGs.
Since  the  2000  Summit,  there  has  been  some 
progress  in  the  achievement  of  the  internationally 
agreed  goals  including  the  MDGs,  but  there  have 
also  been  many  pitfalls.  It  has  become  apparent  that 
business-as-usual approaches will not suffice to address 
and eradicate poverty on a global scale; to ensure food, 
nutrition and energy security; to reverse environmental 
degradation and to deal with climate change.
Current  approaches  will  not  advance  the  MDG 
agenda  by  2015  or  ensure  sustainable  development  in 
the post-2015 context, as agreed at the June 2012 Rio 
de  Janeiro  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20).  Transformative  change  at  the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels  is  what  is 
required.
In  reflecting  on  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
addressing the issue of development so that all peoples 
of the world may live in larger freedom, we welcome 
the  outcome  document  adopted  on  23  September  for 
a  renewed  commitment  to  the  MDG  agenda  and  the 
intensification  of  the  efforts  towards  its  achievement 
by  2015.  We  also  welcome  the  decision  to  launch  the 
intergovernmental process that will lead to an agreement 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  which  should 
provide a new and more inclusive architecture to assist 
us  in  achieving  our  global  sustainable  development 
objectives.
18/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
We therefore applaud the President for focusing on 
those efforts. We agree with him that it is an opportune 
moment  to  begin  the  discourse  on  setting  the  stage 
for  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Some  of  the 
preparatory work has already been done. At the Rio+20 
Conference, world leaders pledged action on sustainable 
development.  We  recognized  the  shortcomings  of  the 
MDG process and the need to embrace a new partnership 
involving Governments, the private sector, civil society 
and multilateral banks, inter alia, to advance action on 
sustainable development.
As leaders, we agreed to an outcome document to 
chart “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), 
that  is,  a  more  sustainable  future  for  the  benefit  of 
present and future generations. “The future we want” 
addresses many facets of what is required to stimulate 
sustainable development for all countries. Trinidad and 
Tobago was an active partner at that Conference.
Today  we  say  we  will  continue  to  support  the 
emphasis  placed  on  poverty  eradication  as 
the 
greatest  global  challenge  facing  the  world  today  and 
an  indispensable  requirement  for  the  achievement  of 
sustainable  development.  We  are  also  committed  to 
the  work  already  under  way  on  the  establishment  of 
the following sustainable development goals: first, the 
development of the green economy as a tool for achieving 
sustainable  development;  secondly,  the  development 
of  measures  that  go  beyond  gross  domestic  product 
in  assessing  development;  thirdly,  the  adoption  of  a 
framework  for  tackling  sustainable  consumption  and 
production;  and,  fourthly,  a  focus  on  gender  equality 
and the need for greater engagement by civil society in 
national efforts for sustainable development.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon remarked that 
It 
“The  [Rio+20]  outcome  document  provides 
a  firm  foundation  for  social,  economic  and 
environmental  well-being. 
is  now  our 
responsibility to build on it. Now the work begins.” 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  many  developing  countries 
also  shared 
the  sentiments  of  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  who  said:  “I  am  convinced  that 
this Conference will have the effect of bringing about 
sweeping  change.”  Therefore,  as  we  begin  to  set  the 
stage  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  respectfully  submits  that  the  General 
Assembly must provide the platform for achieving that 
sweeping  change,  so  as  to  ensure  that  we  realize  the 
objective of integrating sustainable development at all 
levels for a better world for all of humankind.
aspirations.  Trinidad 
In  keeping  with  that  renewed  commitment,  we 
applaud the launch of the High-Level Political Forum 
on Sustainable Development to provide an appropriate 
level of involvement and high-level political oversight 
for  the  implementation  of  our  collective  sustainable 
development 
and  Tobago 
therefore  also  supports  the  President’s  announcement 
to  commence  in  a  robust  manner,  during  the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  deliberations  aimed 
at arriving at a development agenda for the post-2015 
period.  We  support  his  plans  to  convene  high-level 
events  aimed  at  addressing  women,  youth  and  civil 
society; human rights and the rule of law; South-South 
cooperation;  and 
information  and  communication 
technology  development.  In  our  view,  the  topics 
he  has  selected  to  guide  the  three  thematic  debates 
scheduled  for  this  session  of  the  Assembly  are  well 
chosen, namely, the role of partnerships, how stable and 
peaceful societies can contribute to development, and 
the  way  water,  sanitation  and  sustainable  energy  can 
contribute to the post-2015 development agenda.
The areas to be tackled at those events demonstrate 
that the President has a clear vision of the elements needed 
to give effect to the outcome of the Rio+20 Conference, 
which  embodies  the  hopes  and  dreams  of  the  most 
vulnerable  members  of  the  international  community. 
That grouping called for the new development agenda 
to embrace the spirit of the Millennium Declaration and 
to maintain the best of the MDGs, but also to go beyond 
them.
In  my  view,  it  is  imperative  that  those  high-level 
meetings underscore that we must go beyond business 
as usual. There must a coordinated effort to use those 
events to formulate a development agenda that builds on 
and further accelerates the reduction of poverty levels, 
which, since the launch of the MDGs, has already been 
the fastest reduction in history.
The  discourse  must  also  be  people-centred  or,  as 
some commentators have postulated, it must be based 
on  our  common  humanity.  We  also  find  merit  in  the 
comments of the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons 
on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  appointed  by 
the Secretary-General, which indicated that the targets 
to  be  agreed  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
should be monitored closely and 
13-48569
19/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
that 
track 
indicators 
“the 
them  should  be 
disaggregated to ensure no one is left behind and 
targets should only be considered ‘achieved’ if they 
are met for all relevant income and social groups”.
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago recognizes 
the  importance  of  having  people  at  the  centre  of  our 
development goals. Consequently, upon our election to 
office in 2010, we embarked on a national development 
policy which is built on the premise of prosperity for 
all.  An  examination  of  our  national  policy  will  show 
that  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  we  have  also  observed 
the  importance  of  an  integrated  approach  to  not  just 
development, but development that is sustainable, that 
integrates the social, economic and environment pillars 
and which is similar to the plan outlined by President 
Ashe,  to  set  the  stage  for  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
My  Government  has  implemented,  with  varying 
measures  of  success,  seven  pillars  that  are  intended 
to  propel  our  country’s  development  in  order  to 
achieve prosperity for all. I will quickly itemize them: 
people-centred  development,  poverty  eradication 
and  social  justice,  national  and  personal  security, 
information  and  communications  technology,  a  more 
diversified,  knowledge-intensive 
economy,  good 
governance, and foreign policy.
Trinidad and Tobago will continue to do its part in 
assisting the community of nations to craft a post-2015 
development agenda to integrate the social, economic 
and environmental dimensions of sustainability.
We  join  other  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS) in outlining our many development successes, 
achieved through SIDS leadership, as well as with the 
assistance of the international community. In addition, 
and in keeping with the recognition of SIDS as a special 
case  for  sustainable  development  as  a  result  of  our 
unique  characteristics,  challenges  and  vulnerabilities, 
we  must  also  highlight  the  fact  that  SIDS  have  made 
significantly  less  progress  in  the  area  of  development 
than other vulnerable groups of countries.
In  some  cases,  SIDS  are  on  the  front  lines  of 
experiencing  a  reversal  of  many  of  the  gains  that 
have  been  achieved.  In  that  regard,  as  Chair  of  the 
Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean 
Community, I wish to bring to the attention of this body 
a matter of significant concern to the States members 
of CARICOM: the situation of small, highly indebted 
middle-income countries. Almost as if we were being 
penalized for our relative success in getting ourselves 
out  of  the  morass  of  poverty,  the  States  members  of 
CARICOM  that  are  categorized  as  middle-income 
countries  have  been  graduated  out  of  the  economic 
space  where  they  were  previously  afforded  access  to 
concessional financing.
The  use  of  per  capita  income  to  determine  a 
country’s  level  of  development  and  its  need  for  grant 
and  concessional  financing  does  not  provide  a  true 
picture. Per capita income is, at best, an arithmetic ratio 
that does not address levels of poverty, distribution of 
income,  levels  of  indebtedness,  vulnerability  and  the 
capacity  to  self-generate  sustainable  economic  and 
social development. If one were to add to that the impact 
of  natural  disasters  and  the  effects  of  sea-level  rise 
and  climate  change,  the  fallacy  of  the  middle-income 
categorization would be wiped out in an instant.
This issue must be considered within the context of 
SIDS and the post-2015 development agenda. Indeed, in 
the preparations for our participation in that upcoming 
discourse,  the  recognition  of  the  vulnerabilities  of 
small island developing States is one of the guidelines 
that  CARICOM  will  apply  when  considering  its 
commitments to the overall agenda.
The  economic  vulnerability  and  ability  of  the 
States  members  of  CARICOM  to  build  resilience 
are  exacerbated  by  a  debilitating  debt  overhang, 
which  continues  to  bedevil  the  region’s  growth  and 
development  prospects.  Similarly,  CARICOM  takes 
the view that the embargo applied to Cuba constitutes 
a drag on the sustainable development prospects of that 
country  and,  as  such,  should  be  lifted  sooner  rather 
than later.
CARICOM’s  debt  stock  currently  stands  at 
approximately $19 billion, while the debt-to-GDP ratio 
ranges from 60 to 144 per cent for many States. Many 
CARICOM  States  have  been  recording  lower-than-
satisfactory  growth  rates  in  comparison  with  other 
developing  countries  in  Latin  America  and  the  world 
in  general.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  global  financial 
and  economic  crisis,  CARICOM  States  continue 
to  experience  considerable  difficulty  in  accessing 
reasonably  priced  development  finance,  as  several  of 
those  States  have  been  categorized  at  middle-income 
status and graduated away from access to concessional 
resources from the multilateral financial institutions.
I  would  therefore  respectfully  say  that  it  must  be 
acknowledged  that  the  debt  overhang  did  not  result 
20/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
from profligate spending by CARICOM Governments; 
instead, it resulted from the makeup of our countries, the 
geography and history of our countries; our proneness 
to  natural  catastrophes;  and  our  very  small  physical 
size,  which  does  not  lessen  the  per  capita  cost  of 
development expenditures for the necessary economic 
infrastructure  and  the  necessary  social  development 
projects.
therefore  appeal 
to 
CARICOM  States 
the 
international  community  to  support  our  call  for  the 
immediate  review  of  the  very  narrow  criteria  used 
by  multilateral  financial  institutions  and  even  some 
development  partners,  which  graduate  small  highly 
indebted  middle-income  countries  away  from  access 
to  concessional  resources;  and  for  an  early  review  of 
the economic and financial situation of graduated small 
highly indebted middle-income countries with a view 
to developing programmes for the orderly resolution of 
their debt overhang, without compromising the future 
prospects of those States.
We look forward to our participation in the Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  island  Developing 
States, to be held in Samoa in September 2014, and to 
the observance of the International Year of Small Island 
Developing States, also in 2014. I am of the view that 
both the Third SIDS Conference and the International 
Year  of  SIDS  come  at  an  opportune  time  and  will 
ensure not only the full implementation of the Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  its  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
the sustainable development of SIDS but also that the 
concerns  of  SIDS  are  well  articulated  and  adequately 
taken into account in the development of the post-2015 
development agenda.
The  Assembly  may  recall  that  during  the  general 
debate in 2011, both The Honourable Winston Baldwin 
Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and  Foreign  Minister  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  The  Honourable  Ralph 
Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  put  forward  the  case  for  reparations  for 
the  injustices  suffered  by  African  slaves  and  their 
descendants,  stating  that  segregation  and  violence 
against  people  of  African  descent  in  the  region  had 
impaired  their  capacity  for  advancement  as  peoples 
and nations (see A/66/PV.22). They posited that former 
slave-owning  States  should  begin  a  reconciliation 
process  by  formally  acknowledging 
the  cruelties 
committed over the 400 years of the African slave trade.
At  the  Thirty-Fourth  Regular  Meeting  of  the 
Conference  of  Heads  of  Government  of  CARICOM, 
held  in  Port  of  Spain  in  July  this  year,  consideration 
was  given  to  the  issue  of  reparations  for  Caribbean 
slavery  and  native  genocide.  Heads  of  Government 
unanimously agreed to support action on this issue.
CARICOM  States  therefore  urge  those  Member 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  contribute  to  the 
United  Nations  trust  fund  to  ensure  the  erection  of 
a  permanent  memorial  in  honour  of  the  victims  of 
slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  in  a  place 
of  prominence  at  United  Nations  Headquarters.  We 
were very heartened when the winning design for the 
memorial was unveiled Monday right here at the United 
Nations.
We  recognize  that  peace,  security  and  stability 
provide  an  enabling  environment  for  sustainable 
development. Indeed, national and personal security is 
one of the seven pillars of our own national sustainable 
development strategy. At the international level, we are 
stalwart supporters of the Arms Trade Treaty, agreed to 
in March of this year and which we have already signed. 
Today we deposited our instrument of ratification.
In  the  light  of  our  experiences  and  challenges 
in  connection  the  impact  of  crime,  violence  and  the 
illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  on  our 
development  efforts,  we  would  encourage  all  States 
which have not yet done so to sign and ratify the Arms 
Trade  Treaty,  so  that  it  may  come  into  force  at  the 
earliest opportunity.
Indeed,  I  want  to  note  with  sadness  an  incident 
that occurred only recently. One of our brilliant young 
citizens, Mr. Ravindra Ramrattan, a former President’s 
gold medalist for academic excellence in Trinidad and 
Tobago, was killed last Saturday in the terrorist attack 
on  the  Westgate  mall  in  Nairobi.  He  no  doubt  fell 
victim to illegal guns and other weapons in the hands 
of murderous terrorists. His death is merely one more 
example  of  the  consequences  of  illicit  cross-border 
flows of arms. 
On the Syrian crisis, it must not be forgotten that 
good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of 
law at the national and international levels are essential 
for  the  achievement  of  sustainable  development.  In 
that context, we wish to underscore our grave concern 
about the escalating humanitarian crisis in Syria, and 
repeat our call for the situation to be resolved through 
dialogue  and  not  the  use  of  any  measures  that  would 
13-48569
21/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
violate  international  law.  We  submit  that  if  there  is 
prima  facie  evidence  that  individuals  committed  war 
crimes during this protracted conflict that fall within 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
steps should be taken to bring them to justice.
As  we  move  forward  with  the  work  of  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
of  which  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  a  member,  we  have 
already  seen  certain  areas  in  which  consensus  is 
emerging.  I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the 
Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  will  continue  to 
be actively engaged in advancing the President’s efforts 
to  utilize  the  General  Assembly  as  a  primary  vehicle 
for engaging in dialogue on the formulation of the post-
2015 development agenda.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Trinidad and Tobago for the statement she 
has just made.
Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey, President 
of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Government of the Kingdom of Spain.
Mr.  Mariano  Rajoy  Brey,  President  of 
the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey, President of the Government 
of the Kingdom of Spain, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr. Rajoy Brey (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of Spain, I would like to congratulate Ambassador Ashe 
on  his  new  responsibility  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and to convey to him our firm support and 
best wishes. His abilities are a guarantee of good work 
for the next 12 months. I would also like to thank his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
effective  work  during  the  past  year  and  to  wish  him 
success in his new role.
This General Assembly is the hub of the international 
system. In it, we all have the same rights, regardless of 
our size, population or economic development. It is the 
organ of the United Nations that embodies the sovereign 
equality of States. The decisions we take here present 
the international community with a body of opinion that 
is difficult to rebut. This is the debating Hall of global 
legitimacy.  We  are  all  permanent  members  here,  and 
it is here that multilateralism takes on its full meaning 
and effect.
Spain has faith in the United Nations and is firmly 
committed to the Organization, because we subscribe 
completely to the purposes and principles it embodies. 
Our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  is  not  mere 
rhetoric.  Spain  is  the  sixth  largest  contributor  to  the 
system. That commitment legitimizes our aspiration to 
serve  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  Security 
Council in the 2015-2016 biennium. We shall do so in 
the same spirit of dialogue and consensus as on the most 
recent previous occasion when the Assembly placed its 
trust  in  Spain.  In  the  10  years  that  have  passed  since 
then, my country has continued to demonstrate by its 
actions  its  resolve  to  faithfully  serve  the  goals  of  the 
United  Nations  —  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, the peaceful resolution of conflicts, 
international  cooperation  for  development  and  the 
promotion and observance of human rights.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security is a prerequisite for the progress of humankind. 
Spain believes firmly in the threefold values of peace, 
security  and  development,  which  is  why  more  than 
130,000 Spanish soldiers have served in United Nations 
peacekeeping operations and humanitarian missions in 
every  region  of  the  world  since  1989.  Spanish  troops 
are currently serving under the blue flag of the United 
Nations in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, 
where since 2006 they have helped to ensure peace and 
stability  in  a  country  that  is  located  in  a  particularly 
turbulent region.
to 
promote 
Spain  works 
disarmament, 
non-proliferation and arms control, and it took an active 
part  in  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  negotiations.  We  have 
also  participated  in  various  international  initiatives 
to  prevent  nuclear  terrorism.  Spain  has  suffered  the 
violence of terrorism and knows that new threats from 
non-State  factions  call  for  a  global  response  through 
international  cooperation.  We  must  comprehensively 
implement the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy  and  arrive  at  a  global  convention  to  combat 
that menace, which transcends borders. The people of 
Spain know from experience that the responsibility for 
22/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
terrorism  lies  with  the  terrorists  alone;  it  is  exclusive 
to them and non-transferable, whatever its perpetrators 
may  claim.  We  should  always  honour  the  memory  of 
the  victims,  which  is  key  to  denying  social  or  moral 
legitimacy to terrorism of any kind.
Our commitment to working for peace and security 
in  the  world  was  made  evident  this  year  during  the 
crisis in Mali. Spain initially supported the African-led 
International  Support  Mission  in  Mali,  and  thereafter 
the deployment of the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali. Spanish troops 
in  the  European  Union  mission  in  Mali  are  training 
the  country’s  armed  forces,  which  are  responsible 
for  ensuring  the  country’s  national  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  with  full  respect  for  human 
rights.  Mali  is  defeating  terrorism  and  has  regained 
its territorial integrity, an unquestionable success that 
we  can  all  be  proud  of.  But  it  is  only  the  first  step. 
The return to constitutional order, with the holding of 
presidential elections, marks the start of a second phase 
of building the open and inclusive institutions that are 
essential  to  Mali’s  future.  In  the  long  term,  we  must 
continue to support development throughout the Sahel 
as  the  only  way  to  promote  security,  democracy  and 
prosperity in the region.
The  entire  Assembly  should  welcome  the  role 
played by African organizations in that crisis. Special 
recognition is due to the African Union, which celebrates 
its fiftieth anniversary this year. Spain has very close 
ties  with  Africa.  That  continent’s  concerns  are  ours, 
too.  We  participate  in  the  African  Union’s  summits 
and  in  funding  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development,  and  we  were  the  first  non-African 
country  to  contribute  directly  to  the  African  Union 
Commission’s  budget.  Spain  has  launched  a  strategic 
partnership  with  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African States (ECOWAS) and continues to strengthen 
its ties with other regional organizations in Africa. We 
back up those commitments with genuine support. Over 
the past four years, Spain has contributed €100 million 
to  ECOWAS  and  the  same  amount  to  the  African 
Development Bank.
For  the  past  two  years,  we  have  been  witness  to 
the courageous and determined efforts of Arab peoples 
to  assert  their  dignity,  consolidate  their  democratic 
systems  and  exclude  those  who  promote  violence  and 
the  violation  of  fundamental  human  rights.  The  road 
to  democracy  is  not  easy,  but  there  cannot  and  must 
not  be  any  turning  back.  Democracy  has  to  be  an 
effort  undertaken  by  all  of  society,  working  towards 
coexistence and inclusiveness, an effort which is based 
on  dialogue,  tolerance  and  respect  for  human  rights. 
That undertaking should be embraced by every country, 
not just at the political level but also at the social and 
economic.  To  support  those  processes  of  democratic 
governance, Spain has launched the Masar programme, 
aimed at Governments and civil society in North Africa 
and the Middle East.
The Assembly is aware that the situation in Syria 
has  become  an 
intolerable,  heartbreaking  human 
tragedy,  as  well  as  a  growing  threat  to  regional  and 
international peace and security. The brutal attack with 
sarin gas against civilians in Damascus — confirmed by 
the report of the United Nations Mission to Investigate 
Allegations  of  the  Use  of  Chemical  Weapons  in  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  (see  A/67/997)  —  has  been 
widely  condemned  in  the  international  community, 
which firmly believes that that act must not be repeated 
or go unpunished. 
The proposal by Russia and the United States that 
will  allow  international  control  and  the  subsequent 
destruction of all stocks of chemical weapons in Syria 
has been applauded by all. It is now necessary for the 
Security  Council  to  adopt  a  resolution  to  establish 
a  legally  binding  prohibition  on  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria  and  to  ensure  their  mandatory 
destruction.  Much  rests  on  that  question.  As  the 
Secretary-General remarked, it constitutes a challenge 
to  international  security,  one  that  if  not  resolved  will 
represent a collective failure. 
Spain  firmly  believes  that  only  political  dialogue 
between the parties will put an end to the increasingly 
violent  conflict,  as  was  highlighted  by  the  report 
(A/HRC/24/46) presented to the Human Rights Council. 
Therefore,  we  support  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Lakhdar 
Brahimi,  Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria,  to 
promote a political transition in Syria. 
Spain  is  confident  of  the  success  of  the  “Geneva 
II”  conference.  In  that  respect,  I  reiterate  before  the 
Assembly  my  call  to  the  parties  to  demonstrate  a 
constructive  attitude.  Spain  will  continue  to  bolster 
the opposition forces in order to ensure an orderly and 
inclusive transition to democracy. 
Finally, it is essential to maintain the humanitarian 
effort to help reduce the suffering of Syria’s internally 
13-48569
23/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
displaced  population  and  that  of  the  refugees  in 
neighbouring countries.
In  a  related  context,  I  wish  to  emphasize  that 
the  Middle  East  peace  process  is  taking  on  a  new 
perspective.  Last  year,  in  this  very  forum,  it  was 
decided by a significant majority to recognize Palestine 
as  a  United  Nations  Observer  State.  The  current 
negotiations  are  perhaps  the  last  chance  to  reach  a 
just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  peace  for  the  two 
States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  to  live  in  peace,  security 
and prosperity. At this crucial time for the region, the 
political  leaders  concerned,  with  the  support  of  the 
international community, must take the bold decisions 
necessary  to  achieve  the  historic  goal  of  peace,  and 
thereby  promote  stability  in  the  entire  region  and  the 
world.
My country is a staunch advocate of dialogue and 
the use of peaceful means for the settlement of disputes. 
We believe that conflict prevention is one of the main 
instruments for ensuring peace and security. Therefore, 
we have participated in the Peacebuilding Commission, 
the establishment of the Alliance of Civilizations and 
the  establishment,  with  Austria  and  Saudi  Arabia,  of 
the King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz International Centre 
for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue. 
We believe in mediation for the peaceful settlement 
of disputes. That is why we are a member of the United 
Nations  Group  of  Friends  of  Mediation.  Within  the 
Group,  together  with  Morocco,  we  have  launched  the 
initiative  on  mediation  in  the  Mediterranean  region, 
which has recently started producing results. 
The General Assembly has developed a consolidated, 
universal legal doctrine on decolonization, which Spain 
has endorsed wholeheartedly. Once again, I must submit 
to  the  Assembly  the  question  of  Gibraltar,  which  the 
Organization included in 1963 in the list of Non-Self-
Governing  Territories  awaiting  decolonization.  The 
only such territory remaining in Europe, it affects our 
territorial integrity.
Since that date, the United Kingdom has ignored the 
mandate of the General Assembly and the commitment 
made to Spain in the 1984 Brussels Declaration. That 
anachronism continues to inconvenience the citizens of 
Gibraltar and the surrounding area. Resting its case on 
the legitimacy granted by the universal doctrine of the 
General Assembly, Spain once again reiterates its call 
to the United Kingdom to resume bilateral dialogue and 
regional cooperation. 
Western  Sahara  remains  one  of  the  unresolved 
issues at the United Nations. Spain supports the search 
for  a  fair,  lasting  and  mutually  acceptable  solution, 
one  that  provides  for  the  self-determination  of  the 
people of Western Sahara within the framework of the 
United  Nations  and  in  accordance  with  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter. Accordingly, Spain fully 
endorses  the  work  carried  out  in  that  respect  by  the 
Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy.
I  would  like  to  highlight  the  contribution  of 
Latin  America  and  its  regional  organizations 
to 
multilateralism.  Their  constructive  input  on  global 
issues,  such  as  the  environment  and  development,  is 
of  fundamental  importance.  During  the  forthcoming 
Ibero-American  Summit  in  Panama,  we  will  address 
global challenges in the political, economic and social 
contexts and offer some joint responses. 
The  General  Assembly  has  declared  2013  the 
International  Year  of  Water  Cooperation.  The  human 
right to water and sanitation is essential for sustainable 
development and the fight against poverty. That is why, 
in 2008, Spain set up the Cooperation Fund for Water 
and Sanitation, endowed with $1 billion for projects in 
Latin  America.  Moreover,  conscious  of  the  strategic 
value  of  water  in  ensuring  peace  and  security,  Spain 
and Algeria have planned to launch a water strategy for 
the Western Mediterranean. 
Thanks  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  there 
is  broad  awareness  of  the  crucial  importance  of  the 
fight  against  climate  change,  which  is  a  direct  and 
immediate  priority.  Next  year  will  be  the  year  of  the 
small  island  developing  States  and  will  provide  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  jointly  address  the  problems 
they face. Their efforts to adapt to climate change and 
to  mitigate  its  harmful  effects  must  be  supported,  as 
they  produce  the  least  pollution  yet  suffer  the  most 
from its consequences. 
As  a  nation,  Spain  acts  in  solidarity  and  has 
made  every  effort  to  promote  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  has 
channelled 
the  multilateral 
system  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  belief  that  that 
system  guarantees  the  principle  of  neutrality  in  the 
allocation of funds to effectively achieve the ultimate 
goal, namely, the eradication of poverty.
its  solidarity 
through 
In  2007,  Spain,  together  with  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  established 
the  MDG 
Achievement  Fund,  which  has  had  a  real  impact  on 
24/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
the  lives  of  20  million  people  through  more  than 
130  programmes  in  50  countries,  disbursing  almost 
$1 billion. The evaluation of the Fund, which concludes 
its activities this year, will be a key reference both for 
analysing compliance with the MDGs and for developing 
the post-2015 development agenda. The preparation of 
that agenda is the central theme of this session of the 
General  Assembly.  For  Spain,  the  post-2015  agenda 
should  be  focused  on  truly  sustainable  development, 
should  be  universal  and  should  acknowledge  the 
importance  of  transparent  institutions  in  achieving 
inclusive growth.
We  must  therefore  clearly  define  the  sustainable 
development  goals  in  order  to  complete  the  process 
that began in Rio de Janeiro last year. However, it must 
not be forgotten that only a little more than two years 
remain to achieve the MDGs. While we can be pleased 
with the progress made in many areas, there is still a 
long way to go. 
As the Spanish economy starts to grow again, we 
will significantly support these efforts with generous, 
intelligent  and  effective  investment  in  development 
cooperation. 
My country’s solidarity can also be seen in terms of 
humanitarian aid, for which Spain is the world’s eighth 
largest  donor.  The  United  Nations  is  able  to  respond 
to  humanitarian  crises  in  West  Africa  and  the  Sahel 
faster and more effectively, thanks to the World Food 
Programme  humanitarian  aid  storage  and  distribution 
centre that we built in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.
Spain  has  always  been  a  crossroads  of  cultures, 
religions  and  traditions.  Ours  is  an  open,  pluralistic 
and  tolerant  country  that  respects  and  integrates  the 
diversity that comes with globalization. The protection 
and promotion of human rights is a responsibility of the 
institutions to which all citizens must contribute. Spain 
was the third country in the world to ratify the Optional 
Protocol  to  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, and I urge other States to 
do likewise.
We  also  take  a  special  interest  in  promoting  the 
rights  of  persons  with  disabilities.  That  is  why  we 
joined  the  Philippines  in  co-facilitating  the  outcome 
document of the High-level Meeting on the Realization 
of the Millenium Development Goals for Persons with 
Disabilities  (resolution  68/3),  which  took  place  just  a 
few days ago. I am proud to say that in recognition of 
that commitment, Spain has been awarded the Franklin 
D.  Roosevelt  International  Disability  Rights  Award, 
which  Her  Majesty  Queen  Sofia  accepted  a  few  days 
ago in this very city.
We  will  also  continue  to  support  the  work  of 
UN-Women,  as  we  have  since  its  inception.  Equality 
between  women  and  men,  the  full  participation  of 
women in all areas, and efforts to end violence against 
women and girls are indispensable for true development 
and constitute a priority for Spain, both nationally and 
internationally.
Our commitment to multilateralism is inseparable 
from  our  desire  for  a  decisive  and  efficient  United 
Nations.  That  is  why  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  must  tackle  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform,  which  can  be  achieved  only  through  the 
broadest possible consensus founded on the principles 
of accountability, transparency and cooperation, with a 
view to enhancing the legitimacy of and support for the 
Council’s actions.
It  is  also  necessary  to  bring  the  Organization 
into  line  with  its  means  and  to  rationalize  resources 
so that, together, we may achieve more with less. We 
therefore give our unconditional support to the progress 
being  made  towards  system-wide  consistency  and  the 
“Delivering  as  one”  initiative,  to  which  Spain  is  the 
leading  contributor.  At  the  same  time,  the  universal 
character  of  the  United  Nations  means  that  we  must 
preserve its multilingualism.
In 2005, Spain announced its candidacy to become a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 
2015-2016 biennium. My speech today has underlined 
the main reasons why I believe that Spain has shown, not 
with mere words but with concrete actions, its readiness 
to  serve  the  United  Nations  in  the  Security  Council, 
with the same commitment to dialogue and solidarity 
that we have shown since joining the Organization. We 
have  but  a  single  objective:  to  uphold  human  dignity. 
All our efforts in favour of peace, freedom, democracy, 
justice, human rights and sustainable development are 
directed towards that goal. Spain knows that its efforts 
to uphold human dignity will bear greater fruit through 
the United Nations, just as the General Assembly may 
be sure that, in this endeavour, it can count on Spain.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain 
for the statement he has just made.
13-48569
25/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
Mr.  Mariano  Rajoy  Brey,  President  of 
the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Oqil Oqilov, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Tajikistan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Mr. Oqil Oqilov, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oqil 
Oqilov,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Oqilov (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): At the 
outset, I would like to join with those expressing their 
cordial congratulations to Mr. John Ashe on his election 
to  serve  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-eighth session. I am convinced that his extensive 
professional experience will contribute to the efficient 
and successful work of this session. I would also like 
to express our appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić,  for  his  efforts  as  President  at  the  previous 
session.
We fully share the commitment of this session to 
contributing to the development of a post-2015 global 
development  agenda  in  order  to  enhance  the  progress 
already achieved towards the full implementation of the 
decisions  taken  at  the  Rio  de  Janeiro  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20).
The modalities of the High-level Political Forum on 
Sustainable  Development  were  approved  at  the  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly, and its first 
meeting took place some days ago here in New York. 
We expect the Forum, which replaces the Commission 
on Sustainable Development, to become a universal and 
effective platform for regular dialogue and for reviewing 
achievements  and  developing  and  coordinating  the 
programme of actions aimed at promoting sustainable 
development.
Further 
sustainable 
development depends in many respects on the adequate 
and  timely  financing  of  the  planned  programmes 
and  projects.  In  that  regard,  the  activities  of  the 
Intergovernmental Committee of Experts on Sustainable 
Development Financing, which is mandated to develop 
progress 
in 
achieving 
recommendations on effective strategies for financing 
sustainable development, are of key importance.
We  support  efforts 
to  develop  a  sustainable 
development goal for water resources. We believe that 
the following should be taken into consideration in that 
regard: ensuring universal access to safe drinking water 
and sanitation, introducing the integrated management 
of water resources at the national and regional levels, 
increasing the efficiency of water use and secondary use 
of water, adequately financing and investing in water-
economy facilities and infrastructure, transferring and 
introducing  advanced  technologies,  and  setting  up 
mutually acceptable mechanisms for the gathering and 
dissemination of information and data.
As  stated  in  the  Rio+20  outcome  document, 
“water  is  at  the  core  of  sustainable  development  as  it 
is closely linked to a number of key global challenges” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex,  para.  119).  The  water-
related  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  initiated 
by Tajikistan and co-sponsored by other Member States 
have made an invaluable contribution to the realization 
of  the  key  role  of  water  resources  in  the  achievement 
of sustainable development. This year marked the tenth 
anniversary of our first global project, the International 
Year  of  Freshwater,  in  2003.  The  General  Assembly 
took  another  important  decision  when  it  proclaimed 
2005-2015 the International Decade for Action, “Water 
for Life” (resolution 58/217). 
In 2010, Tajikistan initiated the General Assembly 
resolution that declared 2013 the International Year of 
Water Cooperation (resolution 65/154). When promoting 
that resolution in conjunction with other countries, we 
operated on the assumption that the events during that 
International  Year  would  contribute  to  strengthening 
dialogue  and  mutual  understanding  and  enhancing 
cooperation and partnership on the basis of multilevel 
and  comprehensive  approaches  towards  solving  water 
problems.  Most  important  of  all,  we  expected  that 
the  International  Year  of  Water  Cooperation  would 
become a major platform for consolidating efforts and 
improving our treatment of water resources. 
Today,  it  is  still  too  early  to  draw  conclusions 
regarding the outcome of the Year. However, I would like 
to note that the International Year of Water Cooperation 
has  provided  a  truly  unique  opportunity  to  promote 
the  dialogue  on  the  search  for  and  establishment  of 
a  just,  mutually  advantageous  and  effective  water 
cooperation  system.  It  is  specifically  that  idea  that 
was  the  focus  of  the  statements  and  reports  of  the 
26/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
participants at the High-level International Conference 
on  Water  Cooperation,  organized  by  the  Government 
of Tajikistan in cooperation with the United Nations on 
20 and 21 August in Dushanbe. I would like to take this 
opportunity to extend our appreciation to the President 
of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General and all 
our  partners  —  Member  States  and  international  and 
regional organizations — for their active participation 
in the work of that successful Conference. 
Based  on  the  outcomes  of  the  Conference,  the 
Dushanbe  Declaration  of  the  High-level  International 
Conference  on  Water  Cooperation  and  the  Dushanbe 
framework for action on water cooperation were issued 
and circulated among Member States as documents of 
the General Assembly. In his statement at the opening 
ceremony  of  the  Dushanbe  Conference,  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon, 
proposed  the  development  of  a  post-2015  vision  for 
global  water,  which  could  serve  as  the  road  map  for 
the  implementation  of  the  water-related  sustainable 
development  goals.  We  would  like  to  call  upon  all 
delegations to support that initiative.
It  is  common  knowledge  that  water  resources  are 
central to the achievement of the development goals set 
forth in the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). 
Our  efforts  at  poverty  eradication  directly  depend  on 
the rational management of water resources. The efforts 
undertaken have not yet produced the large-scale effects 
that  we  all  expected  at  the  dawn  of  the  Millennium. 
However,  the  progress  is  obvious.  According  to  The 
Millennium Development Goals Report 2013, over the 
past  two  decades,  more  than  2.1  billion  people  have 
received access to improved drinking water supplies and 
1.9 billion people improved their sanitation conditions. 
Despite  those  statistics,  768  million  people  are  still 
using water from unsafe sources and about 2.5 billion 
people do not have access to basic sanitation. Moreover, 
the  level  of  progress  differs,  not  only  in  regions  and 
countries, but also in rural and urban areas within the 
same country.
The special General Assembly event that took place 
recently  in  New  York  provided  another  opportunity 
for  a  sound  assessment  of  progress  and  identification 
of  ways  to  accelerate  implementation  of  the  MDGs 
and do so with maximum success. That is particularly 
important  under  current  circumstances,  when  the 
financial, economic, food and energy crises and climate 
change  undermine  the  current  still  unsustainable  and 
uneven progress in the implementation of MDGs.
Experience  shows  that  it  is  impossible  to  achieve 
development  goals  without  ensuring  reliable  and 
universal access to energy. The United Nations Decade 
of  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  (2014-2024)  provides  a 
unique opportunity for the practical implementation of 
that aim. We believe that, along with ensuring reliable 
and  sustainable  access  to  energy,  it  is  essential  to 
encourage and promote in every way possible increased 
use  of  renewable  energy,  the  transfer  of  advanced 
technologies  and  a  more  efficient  energy  supply  and 
energy  saving.  Tajikistan,  which 
is  experiencing 
economic  and  population  growth,  lacks  large  oil  and 
gas  deposits  but  has  huge  hydropower  potential.  It  is 
making  every  effort  to  develop  all  aspects  of  power 
generation,  on  which 
the  population’s  well-being 
critically depends. 
Our Government is undertaking additional efforts 
to  make  full  use  of  its  own  potential  when  it  comes 
to  addressing  socioeconomic  issues.  On  2  March, 
Tajikistan  successfully  completed 
the  negotiation 
process and joined the World Trade Organization as the 
one hundred and fifty-ninth member of that multilateral 
system for regulating world trade. We are interested in 
advancing the trade interests of developing countries, 
including those of landlocked countries. 
for 
the 
Transport 
In that context, on 16 and 17 September in Dushanbe, 
the  tenth  annual  meeting  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Commission 
Corridor 
Europe-Caucasus-Asia  was  held.  That  meeting 
was  followed  on  18  September  by  the  High-level 
International  Conference  on  Development  of  Road 
Transport and Transit Potential in Central Asia for the 
period  up  to  2023.  Those  events  made  an  additional 
contribution to the process of preparing for the 10-year 
comprehensive  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action.
regional 
Effective 
cooperation 
can  provide 
considerable support to the establishment of a new global 
partnership  for  achieving  sustainable  development. 
In  our  region,  the  development  of  multidimensional 
cooperation depends in many respects on strengthening 
peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  We  support  the 
efforts  of  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
international  community  to  address  the  challenges 
of  the  transition  period,  reconciliation  and  post-
conflict rehabilitation in Afghanistan. We believe that 
socioeconomic  development  is  the  key  to  achieving 
lasting  peace  in  that  country.  International  aid  to 
Afghanistan should be, above all, aimed at promoting 
13-48569
27/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
a  full  economic  recovery,  further  strengthening  the 
social sphere and generating new jobs. 
The  borders  with  Afghanistan’s  neighbouring 
countries  should  be  considered  the  front  line  in 
combating drug-trafficking and, in that regard, efforts 
with  respect  to  their  logistical  strengthening  and  the 
prompt  creation  of  a  modern  and  effective  Afghan 
border  police  presence  should  be  stepped  up.  There 
is an urgent need for Afghanistan to be fully included 
in the multidimensional regional cooperation process. 
Involving the neighbouring countries in the development 
of  Afghanistan  and  giving  due  consideration  to  the 
regional  context  in  the  post-conflict  rehabilitation 
of  the  country  will  guarantee  success  in  the  ongoing 
efforts undertaken by the world community.
It  is  clear  that  illicit  drug  trafficking  has  become 
one of the major sources of financing of international 
terrorism. The urgency and magnitude of the problems 
associated  with  drugs  and  illicit  drug  trafficking  are 
clear  indications  of  the  global  danger  threatening 
international  stability  and  security  as  a  whole.  The 
international community must unify its efforts to reduce 
the  supply  of  and  demand  for  drugs  and  its  efforts 
aimed at integrating national and regional efforts into 
the international drug-control strategy. 
During the period of its membership in the United 
Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs, 2014 to 2017, 
Tajikistan  will  strengthen  and  expand  its  interaction 
with  other  Member  States  and  international  and 
regional  organizations  in  practical  implementation  of 
the international conventions on drugs and the Political 
Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  on  International 
Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and  Balanced 
Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. 
Combating terrorism is a long-term and complicated 
joint  task  that  will  require  strengthening  by  applying 
the  entire  spectrum  of  political,  economic  and 
financial measures. We deem it important to expedite 
the  coordination  and  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
anti-terrorism  convention.  Regional  and  subregional 
organizations  capable  of  providing  support  to  the 
global  system  for  combating  international  terrorism 
must play an important role in combating terrorism and 
extremism.
In  recent  years,  Tajikistan  has  intensified  its 
interaction  with  United  Nations  law  enforcement 
mechanisms,  including  the  special  procedures  of  the 
Human Rights Council. The country’s main priorities 
in  this  field  are  the  strengthening  of  international 
mechanisms  for  the  protection  of  human  rights,  the 
bona fide implementation of the commitments assumed 
and  the  promotion  of  multilateral  cooperation  in  the 
field of human rights protection. We view the Human 
Rights Council as an important forum for constructive 
dialogue and cooperation in the field of human rights.
Guided  by  the  desire  to  make  a  contribution 
to  an  open  and  fair  dialogue  in  the  field  of  human 
rights, Tajikistan has for the first time decided to put 
forward its candidature for the Human Rights Council 
for the period 2015 to 2017. We hope that Tajikistan’s 
candidature for that period will receive support at the 
election to be held during the sixty-ninth session of the 
General Assembly, in the fall of 2014.
In conclusion, I would like to note that the entire 
range  of  long-term  goals  requires  a  clear  and  sound 
review  of  the  actions  under  way  towards  a  transition 
towards  sustainable  development.  We  are  convinced 
that  the  United  Nations,  as  the  unique,  universal 
mechanism  for  multilateral  cooperation,  must  remain 
the  centre  of  coordination  of  our  collective  efforts  to 
ensure peace, security, development and human rights. 
Meanwhile, the role of the United Nations itself must 
be strengthened through comprehensive reform and by 
enhancing its ability to rapidly and adequately respond 
to  problems,  effectively  meet  the  numerous  global 
challenges and counter threats.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Oqil Oqilov, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Pierre  Moukoko  Mbonjo,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cameroon.
Mr.  Moukoko  Mbonjo  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in 
French): Allow me at the outset to convey to all present 
the apologies of His Excellency Paul Biya, President of 
the Republic of Cameroon, who wanted to participate 
in  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
but was not able to owing for constraints relating to the 
national political calendar. He instructed me to read out 
the following message:
“As  President  Ashe  takes  the  reins  of  the 
General Assembly, the United Nations is entering a 
28/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
critical period that should lead to the defining of the 
international development agenda that will follow 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
Aware of his vast responsibility and the tremendous 
amount  of  work  he  will  be  facing  during  this 
session, I would like to convey to him the sincere 
congratulations of my country in connection with 
his election to preside over the Assembly and wish 
him every success in this challenging but rewarding 
undertaking.  His  vast  experience  in  the  area  of 
diplomacy, which was made clear when he presided 
over the Commission on Sustainable Development 
and the Group of 77 and China, ensures a fruitful 
outcome  to  our  present  deliberations  and  to  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the  12  months 
ahead.
“Those same qualities were the major strengths 
of his predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, and I should 
like  here  to  commend  his  dynamic  and  effective 
presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh 
session.
“Lastly, I would extend our sense of satisfaction 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts 
in  the  service  of  peace  and  economic  and  social 
development worldwide.
“This session is beginning in a context marked 
by the bloody terrorist acts committed in a mall in 
Nairobi,  Kenya,  several  days  ago.  This  is  for  me 
an  opportunity  to  strongly  condemn  those  acts 
of  violence  and  to  convey  to  the  people  and  the 
Government of that brotherly country the deepest 
condolences of the people and the Government of 
Cameroon.
“Let  me,  on  a  more  optimistic  note,  welcome 
the end of the crisis in Mali, which resulted in the 
democratic election of President Ibrahim Boubacar 
Keita.  The  end  of  that  process,  which  had  the 
welcome  support  of  the  international  community, 
represents  a  milestone  in  peacebuilding,  security, 
national  reconciliation  and  development  in  that 
country.
“As  I  noted  at  the  start  of  my  remarks, 
throughout  this  session  we  must  reflect  deeply 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  During 
the  2010  high-level  debate,  we  noted  that  while 
progress  made  in  achieving  some  of  the  MDGs, 
significant disparities persisted between countries 
and between regions.
“We  noted  that,  despite  the  progress,  at  the 
current pace of implementation very few countries 
would  achieve  all  the  MDGs  by  the  deadline. 
With  two  years  to  go,  we  must  point  out  that  it 
will be difficult for Cameroon to achieve some of 
the  Goals.  Substantial  progress  has  been  made  in 
reaching some of the targets. In the area of health 
care,  which  is  considered  to  be  the  catalyst  for 
economic and social development, with a view to 
reducing poverty, my country remains committed 
to  the  effort  to  combat  the  AIDS  pandemic.  The 
allocation  of  substantial  resources  to  the  fight 
against  that  disease,  the  distribution  of  free 
antiretroviral  drugs,  the  effective  care  of  the  sick 
and the implementation of an efficient prevention 
programme, 
from 
mother to child, have led to a considerable decline 
in  the  rate  of  HIV  infection  in  Cameroon.  From 
10.5 per cent in 2000, the rate dropped to 4.3 per 
cent in 2012, a decline of more than 50 per cent. 
transmission 
including 
the 
“Another  genuine  source  of  satisfaction  for 
Cameroon  is  the  progress  made  in  the  area  of 
education. The Government has strived to continue 
and  strengthen  the  numerous  efforts  to  ensure 
primary  education  for  all  Cameroonians.  I  would 
underscore  that  the  national  target  is  to  provide 
to  all  children  —  boys  and  girls  —  throughout 
Cameroon,  the  resources  to  achieve  a  complete 
primary  schooling  cycle.  The  implementation  of 
the sectoral strategy on education has led to clear 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  education 
policy.  I  can  mention,  among  other  things,  the 
expansion of school infrastructure, the improvement 
in  the  teacher-student  ratio,  the  reduction  in  the 
number  of  students  who  repeat  a  school  year  and 
the improvement of girls’ education. The result of 
those  actions  is  that  the  Cameroon  today  has  one 
of the highest literacy rates in sub-Saharan Africa, 
with an enrolment rate of nearly 100 per cent. 
“But the same progress has not been achieved 
with  respect  to  the  targets  of  the  other  Goals. 
That  is  the  case  for  most  developing  countries, 
including Cameroon. Hence the need to further our 
thinking that began in Rio de Janeiro in the context 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and,  as  the 
President wished, to set the stage for the post-MDG 
development agenda. That thinking should be based 
on a clear assessment of the challenges encountered 
and  lessons  learned  in  the  implementation  of  the 
13-48569
29/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
MDGs  in  order  to  consider  the  prospects  for  the 
future international framework. 
to  ensure 
“The  full  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals faces structural difficulties for 
some  and  temporary  difficulties  for  others.  They 
include  climate  change,  the  financial  crisis  and 
food insecurity. Those difficulties raise a number 
of important questions about how the MDGs were 
formulated. Were we too ambitious? Was the 2015 
deadline  realistic?  Would  an  effective  follow-
up  and  support  mechanism  for  States  not  have 
been  necessary?  Did  we  give  ourselves  adequate 
resources 
implementation?  Clearly, 
Millennium  Development  Goal  8  —  ‘develop  a 
global  partnership  for  development’  —  was  the 
beginning of an answer to the last point. However, 
that Goal will also be difficult to achieve by 2015.
“All the MDGs will probably not all be achieved 
by  2015.  We  should,  however,  acknowledge  that 
the  programme  will  enable  the  achievement  of 
clear progress in many areas. It has allowed us to 
convey the very complex language of development 
in  clear  objectives  accessible  to  all  and  enabled 
every  one  to  articulate  simple  requirements  and 
needs  to  their  Government.  We  should  safeguard 
those achievements in framework of the post-2015 
agenda. 
“The  post-2015  agenda  should  also  take  into 
account  the  viewpoint  of  developing  countries, 
which  are  the  primary  targets.  In  that  regard,  I 
congratulate the United Nations for having initiated 
a  broad  and  inclusive  process  of  consultations 
to  garner  the  views  of  all,  in  particular  those  of 
academics  and  civil  society  organizations,  with 
respect to the MDGs and the framework that will 
follow them. Consultations of that kind have been 
held in Cameroon. They have enabled civil society 
to 
the  post-MDG 
framework. Those recommendations are in keeping 
with  the  MDGs  in  terms  of  strengthening  the 
actions to undertake in order to provide universal 
access  to  primary  education,  to  reduce  maternal 
and infant mortality and to improve access to water 
and sanitation.
issue  recommendations  for 
“Furthermore,  in  the  context  of  the  next 
programme,  my  country  believes  that  particular 
focus  should  be  placed  on  creating  decent  jobs 
as an engine of economic growth and sustainable 
development.  It  is  in  that  context  that,  in  2010, 
Cameroon  crafted  a  strategy  document 
for 
growth  and  employment.  That  document  is  part 
of Cameroon’s shared development vision to 2035, 
through  which  the  economic  performance  of  my 
country  will  lead  to  concrete  results  in  terms  of 
creating  jobs,  reducing  poverty  and  significantly 
improving  the  living  conditions  of  our  people, 
especially for women and youth. 
“While  the  creation  of  decent  jobs  should, 
according to Cameroon, occupy a central position, 
environmental  issues  should  not  be  neglected.  In 
accordance with the spirit of Rio de Janeiro, those 
issues will make it possible to determine the future 
we  want  for  humankind  and  to  work  seriously  to 
bring it about.
“To  ensure 
that  new  development  goals 
will  be  achieved  by  the  established  deadline, 
coherent  national  initiatives  must  be  supported 
by  an  effective  global  partnership.  Therefore,  in 
addition to the provisions that may be taken at the 
international level by donors — increased pledges, 
concessional loans, debt swaps, debt restructuring 
and  debt  cancellation —  and  at  the  national  level 
by  developing  countries,  it  is  crucial  that  control 
be  better  maintained  over  the  financial  and  raw 
materials  markets  in  order  to  enable  countries  to 
better withstand external shocks.
“We  should  also  consider  the  possibility  of 
setting up a support fund for implementing the new 
development programme, as well as regular follow-
up  mechanisms  at  the  international  and  regional 
levels for achieving each goal. 
the  difficulties 
I  have  already 
noted,  the  MDGs,  like  the  future  international 
development framework, can be optimally achieved 
only  if  an  appropriate  security  environment  is 
ensured. Unfortunately, developing countries, and 
Africa in particular, continue to be a stage for many 
conflicts. 
“Beyond 
“The situation in the Central African Republic, 
that in the eastern part of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  turmoil  following 
the crises of the Arab Spring in North Africa are 
all  sources  of  concern  that  could  jeopardize  the 
development  efforts  undertaken  by  the  States 
involved. With respect to the political, security and 
humanitarian crisis in the Central African Republic 
30/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
in  particular,  which  has  reached  proportions 
unprecedented  in  the  history  of  that  country, 
Cameroon  and  other  States  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  Central  African  States  (ECCAS) 
have  shouldered  their  responsibilities  by  sending 
troops to Bangui to stabilize the situation. Similarly, 
we  have  actively  contributed  to  the  establishment 
of  a  road  map  that  should  enable  them  to  restore 
normal constitutional order within 18 to 24 months. 
international 
community  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Central 
African subregion, in particular in order to quickly 
operationalize  the  international  support  mission 
for  the  Central  African  Republic  and  to  mobilize 
humanitarian  assistance  commensurate  with  the 
problems the country faces. 
“Cameroon 
the 
calls 
on 
“Those  political,  security  and  humanitarian 
crises are compounded by recurrent acts of banditry, 
such as abductions of civilians and maritime piracy. 
The  development  of  the  latter  criminal  activity, 
which  poses  a  threat  to  international  trade,  has 
reached  alarming  proportions.  According  to  the 
International Maritime Bureau, the number of acts 
of piracy identified along the coast of West Africa 
in 2012 exceeded for the first time the number of 
attacks in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean.
“To  deal  with 
that  problem,  Yaounde, 
Cameroon’s capital, hosted on 24 and 25 June, in 
accordance with Security Council resolution 2039 
(2012), of 29 February 2012, a joint summit of the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  Africa  States, 
the Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS)  and  the  Commission  of  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea (GGC) on maritime safety and security in 
the Gulf of Guinea. This was aimed at combatting 
piracy,  armed  robbery  and  other  illegal  activities 
perpetrated  in  the  maritime  space  of  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea.
“The  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
ECCAS, ECOWAS and the CGG, meeting together 
for the first time since the establishment of those 
three institutions, decided to set up an interregional 
coordination  centre  to  monitor  anti-piracy  efforts 
in their common maritime space and to pool their 
resources.  The  headquarters  of  the  centre,  whose 
purpose  is  to  implement  a  regional  strategy  to 
combat piracy, armed robbery and other illicit acts 
in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  was  given  to  Cameroon. 
Everything is being done to make it operational as 
quickly as possible. I would here like to commend 
the assessment of the results of the summit by the 
United  Nations  and  other  strategic  partners  and 
their commitment to support the implementation of 
the resolutions Yaounde meeting.
“As I pointed out on the occasion of the summit, 
in order to achieve the desired security objective, 
it  will  be  necessary  for  all  stakeholders  to  fully 
assume  their  role  in  the  effective  implementation 
of the instruments that the three organizations have 
put in place. As with the MDGs, the support of all 
of  our  strategic  partners  is  crucial  to  effectively 
fight against piracy and other forms of insecurity 
in the Gulf of Guinea. 
“Anything  that  will  promote  the  development 
of  the  region  will  contribute  to  improving  global 
growth  and  security  and  represent  significant 
progress towards ‘The future we want’ — a future 
of peace and prosperity for all.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Espen Barth Eide, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway.
Mr. Eide (Norway): We are living in times of rapid 
change. Global and regional dynamics are transforming 
global  governance.  A  changing  world  will  inevitably 
change the United Nations. But we, the Members of this 
great Organization, can influence the direction of the 
change. In order to do so, however, we must set strategic 
priorities.  We  should  develop  an  agile  multilateral 
system for the twenty-first century.
The architects of the United Nations were in many 
ways ahead of their time. The Charter, in its Chapters 
VI and VIII, foresaw a world where the United Nations 
should safeguard international peace and security, the 
settlement  of  disputes  and  the  promotion  of  common 
interests at the regional, as much as at the global, level. 
By 1945, however, there were few established regional 
mechanisms.  In  other  words,  the  Charter’s  provisions 
for regional arrangements were largely aspirational.
In 
today’s  world,  regional  organizations  and 
arrangements are increasingly proving their relevance. 
Economic,  social  and  political  integration  is  taking 
place  at  the  regional  level.  Cooperation  is  not  only 
about  outcomes,  but  also  about  processes.  Practical 
cooperation  can  lay  the  foundation  for  strategic  trust 
and shared values. 
13-48569
31/33
A/68/PV.10 
25/09/2013
It  was  only  after  the  past  century’s  two  horrific 
wars  that  my  own  continent  chose  close  integration. 
That  was  instrumental  in  the  creation  of  a  peaceful 
Europe.  For  that  historic  achievement,  the  European 
Union was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo last 
year. 
The  African  Union  (AU)  has  seen  its  continent 
through  50  transformative  years.  Freedom  came  at  a 
high price. Yet, Africa has never been more prosperous 
than  it  is  today.  We  see  economic  growth,  improving 
governance and enhanced regional cooperation.
From  Somalia  to  Mali,  the  African  Union  and  its 
subregional partners continue to prove their relevance. 
The African Union is, beyond doubt, becoming one of 
the United Nations most important regional partners. I 
commend the AU for its dedicated efforts, and I want 
to  express  my  deepest  condolences  for  the  tragic  loss 
of  life  in  the  heinous  terrorist  attacks  in  Nairobi.  We 
must  never  allow  terrorists  to  set  the  agenda.  Hence 
our efforts to work with the AU to promote peace and 
stability  in  Somalia  at  this  crucial  moment  must  be 
redoubled.
In recent years, Norway has worked with the people 
of  Colombia  to  lay  the  foundations  for  lasting  peace 
between  its  Government  and  the  Fuerzas  Armadas 
Revolucionarias  de  Colombia  movement.  In  doing  so, 
we  have  seen  the  strong  commitment  of  Colombia’s 
neighbours. There, as everywhere else, we have learned 
that peace cannot just be established within one country 
alone; it has to be rooted in a regional context.
In  South-East  Asia,  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  is  becoming  the  source,  as 
well  as  an  architect,  of  regional  stability.  I  commend 
ASEAN  for  its  constructive  role  in  supporting  the 
democratic reform process in Myanmar. Myanmar will 
even  preside  over  ASEAN  next  year,  which  in  many 
ways is a testimony to the organization’s adaptability.
themselves 
Organizations  such  as  ASEAN  have  also  taken 
the  development  of  multilateral 
upon 
responses  to  regional  challenges,  including  those 
pertaining to maritime security. Those strides are not 
only of regional importance, but are important to us all. 
The freedom and safety of the seas is one of the most 
important public goods in an interconnected world. 
Just  like  in  South-East  Asia,  Norway  and  our 
fellow Arctic States have built our deepened maritime 
cooperation  on  one  of  the  most  salient  organizing 
principles of the United Nations — the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. And regions reach 
out  to  each  other.  Earlier  this  year,  Norway  acceded 
to  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Cooperation  in  Southeast 
Asia.  Likewise,  again  during  the  spring,  China, 
Japan,  India,  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  Singapore 
all  joined  the  Arctic  Council  as  observers.  In  doing 
so,  they  subscribed  to  the  founding  principles  of  the 
Arctic Council, principles that, yet again, are a direct 
reflection of a key a United Nations norm.
Where I live, we observe global warming at close 
quarters. As the polar ice cap melts, we are reminded of 
our shared responsibility for saving the planet’s climate. 
Today,  the  Arctic  Ocean  is  opening  up  to  human 
activities  in  ways  hard  to  imagine  only  a  few  years 
ago. Over the past decade, we have strived to develop 
forward-looking strategies for the safe management of 
the new maritime crossroads between Asia, Europe and 
North America. 
The emergence of regional institutions as a feature 
of global governance is in fact good news for the United 
Nations. We need a United Nations that can be a catalyst 
that  supports  and  encourages  regional  developments, 
which — and as long as — they reinforce our common 
global and multilateral agenda. We must acknowledge 
that  trend.  We  must  revisit  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular  its  Chapters  VI  and  VIII,  and 
seek to identify the opportunities and potential pitfalls 
it represents for the United Nations. 
The Middle East has yet to find an effective regional 
architecture. It is also a part of the world that is causing 
considerable  concern  these  days.  Israel  and  Palestine 
are  facing  a  moment  of  truth.  This  month  marks  20 
years since the signing of the Oslo Accords. We have 
witnessed  positive  achievements  on  the  ground.  State 
institutions have been built and are ready for statehood. 
But for many years, a political horizon has been missing. 
Time is running out for a negotiated two-State solution.
But  now,  as  Palestinian  and  Israeli  leaders  have 
returned 
is  renewed.  This 
afternoon,  in  the  Conference  Building,  I  presided 
over  a  meeting  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison  Committee 
for  the  Coordination  of  the  International  Assistance 
to  Palestinians,  the  international  donor  group  for 
Palestine.  The  donors  reaffirmed  their  commitment 
to  providing  necessary  assistance  to  the  Palestinian 
Authority  through  the  current  transition  to  statehood. 
to  negotiations,  hope 
32/33 
13-48569
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.10
This  may  be  the  last  chance  —  a  chance  we  cannot 
afford to miss.
As  we  speak  the  horrors  in  Syria  are  continuing. 
Thousands  upon  thousands  of  children,  women  and 
men are being killed and maimed. Millions are fleeing 
their  homes.  The  use  of  chemical  weapons  is  utterly 
unacceptable  and  is  a  grave  violation  of  international 
law.  Their  further  use  must  be  effectively  prevented. 
Those  responsible  must  be  brought  to  justice  and  the 
case referred to the International Criminal Court. 
The  Syrian  crisis  as  such  can  be  resolved  only 
through a political solution. The Security Council must 
now live up to the responsibility that we, the Members 
of  the  United  Nations,  have  entrusted  in  it.  We  must 
seize  the  momentum  created  by  the  United  States-
Russian  agreement.  Humanitarian  access  must  be 
ensured by all parties and to all areas. The bloodshed in 
Syria must come to an end.
Frustrated by Syria, many have criticized the United 
Nations for its inability to act. However, we should not 
lose  sight  of  the  United  Nations  many  achievements. 
Every  single  day,  the  United  Nations  provides  shelter 
for  refugees,  vaccinates  children,  promotes  maternal 
health  and  stabilizes  fragile  States.  Evolving  norms 
of  human  security  have  placed  new  issues  on  the 
agenda.  Children  and  armed  conflict,  women,  peace 
and security and the protection of civilians are recent 
examples of the important normative role of the United 
Nations.
Faced with a scarcity of resources accentuated by 
a global economy under pressure, we should increase, 
not  decrease,  the  flexibility  of  the  Secretariat  and 
the  Secretary-General  to  run  the  Organization.  In 
autumn of 2012, the Assembly decided that the 2014-
2015 budget should be cut by $100 million. Reducing 
the  budget  while  increasing  the  number  of  tasks  is  a 
recipe for a weaker, not a stronger, United Nations. The 
Assembly must be coherent in its policies. The role of 
the  Assembly  should  be  to  provide  guidance,  not  to 
micromanage.
In  conclusion,  to  meet  the  regional  and  global 
challenges  of  our  time,  we,  the  Member  States,  must 
work together to fulfil the aspirations and potential of 
the Charter of the United Nations. The efficiency of this 
great Organization depends upon its ability to innovate 
and to adapt to changing circumstances. 
The meeting rose at 9.35 p.m.
13-48569
33/33
