United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
52nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 13 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.52
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 116
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and  
Budgetary Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/557)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 4 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint  the  following  persons  as  members  of  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2014: Mr. Toshihiro Aiki (Japan), Mr. Richard 
Moon (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland), Mr. Carlos Ruiz Massieu (Mexico), Mr. Devesh 
Uttam  (India),  Ms.  Catherine  Vendat  (France)  and 
Mr. Zhang Wanhai (China).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint those persons as members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2014?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee  
on Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/558)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 4 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint  the  following  persons  as  members  of  the 
Committee  on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2014: Mr. Ali A. Ali Kurer 
(Libya), Mr. Jean Pierre Diawara (Guinea), Mr. Gordon 
Eckersley (Australia), Mr. Bernardo Greiver del Hoyo 
(Uruguay), Mr. Pedro Luis Pedroso Cuesta (Cuba) and 
Mr. Ugo Sessi (Italy).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint those persons as members of the Committee on 
Contributions for a three-year term of office beginning 
on 1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
(c)  Confirmation of members of the  
Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/559)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 5 of its report, that the General Assembly 
confirm  the  reappointment  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Simon  Jiang  (China)  and  Mr.  Achim  Kassow 
(Germany)  as  regular  members  of  the  Investments 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2014, and the appointment of Mr. Ivan Pictet 
(Switzerland) and Mr. Michael Klein (United States of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-56114 (E)
*1356114*
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
America)  as  regular  members  for  a  one-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2014.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to confirm the reappointment by the Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Simon  Jiang  (China)  and  Mr.  Achim  Kassow 
(Germany)  as  regular  members  of  the  Investments 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2014, and the appointment of Mr. Ivan Pictet 
(Switzerland) and Mr. Michael Klein (United States of 
America)  as  regular  members  for  a  one-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  Fifth  Committee  also 
recommends,  in  paragraph  6  of  its  report,  that  the 
General Assembly reappoint Mr. Gumersindo Oliveros 
(Spain)  as  an  ad  hoc  member  of  the  Investments 
Committee  for  a  one-year  term  of  office  beginning 
1 January 2014.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  reappoint  Mr.  Gumersindo  Oliveros  as  an  ad  hoc 
member of the Investments Committee for a one-year 
term of office beginning 1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
(d) Appointment of a member of the Board  
of Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/560)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 5 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India 
as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Auditors  for  a  six-year 
term of office beginning on 1 July 2014.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India 
as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Auditors  for  a  six-year 
term of office beginning on 1 July 2014?
It was so decided.
(e)  Appointment of members of the International 
Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/561)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 5 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint  the  following  persons  as  members  of  the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2014: Mr. Minoru 
Endo (Japan), Mr. Luis Mariano Hermosillo (Mexico), 
Mr. Aldo Mantovani (Italy), Mr. Curtis Smith (United 
States of America) and Mr. Wolfgang Stöckl (Germany).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint those persons as members of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  Fifth  Committee  also 
recommends,  in  paragraph  5  of  its  report,  that  the 
General  Assembly  designate  Mr.  Wolfgang  Stöckl 
(Germany)  as  Vice-Chair  of  the  International  Civil 
Service  Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2014.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
designate Mr. Wolfgang Stöckl (Germany) as Vice-Chair 
of  the  International  Civil  Service  Commission  for  a 
four-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
(f)  Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/562)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 5 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint Ms. Natalia A. Bocharova (Russian Federation) 
as  a  member  of  the  Independent  Audit  Advisory 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2014.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint Ms. Natalia A. Bocharova (Russian Federation) 
as  a  member  of  the  Independent  Audit  Advisory 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2014?
It was so decided.
May  I  take  it  that  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-items (a) 
to (f) of agenda item 116?
It was so decided.
2/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
Agenda item 64
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/68/53 
and Add.1)
The President: The addendum to the report of the 
Human Rights Council covering the Council’s twenty-
fourth  session,  held  from  9  to  27  September  2013,  is 
currently  available  in  English  only  on  the  Council’s 
website.  The  addendum  will  be  circulated  in  all 
languages as soon as the translations are completed.
In connection with this item, I would like to recall 
that the General Assembly, at its 2nd plenary meeting, 
on 20 September 2013, decided to consider agenda item 
64 in the plenary meeting and in the Third Committee, 
pursuant to resolution 65/281 of 17 June 2011.
In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281  of  17  June 
2011,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Remigiusz  Achilles 
Henczel,  President of the Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Henczel  (Poland),  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council: It is with great pleasure and honour that 
I come before the General Assembly today to introduce 
the annual report of the Human Rights Council (A/68/53 
and Add.1) to the Assembly. I would like to take this 
opportunity to congratulate the newly elected members 
of the Council and to wish them a successful term.
The  year  2013  marks  the  seventh  year  since  the 
establishment of the Human Rights Council, which has 
achieved  significant  progress  in  dealing  with  human 
rights issues in different parts of the world.
Syria  continued  to  be  high  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Council  throughout  the  year,  and  the  mandate  of  the 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  was  extended  again.  The 
Council  also  established  a  commission  of  inquiry 
to  investigate  the  systematic,  widespread  and  grave 
violations of human rights in the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  full 
accountability,  in  particular  where  those  violations 
may amount to crimes against humanity. The Council 
also extended existing special procedures mandates on 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Myanmar, 
Iran, Belarus and Eritrea.
I  would 
like 
to  underline 
the  creativity 
demonstrated by the Council with regard to its methods 
of  work,  which  has  greatly  facilitated  the  dialogue  of 
countries concerned with the Council. Two interactive 
dialogues,  one  on  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
the other on Somalia, were held with the participation 
of the Minister of Justice and Judicial Reform and the 
Minister of Territorial Administration, Decentralization 
and  Regionalization  of  the  Central  African  Republic 
and  the  Prime  Minister  of  Somalia.  Those  dialogues 
were  held  at  the  initiative  of  the  countries  concerned 
themselves,  which  were  welcomed  by  the  Council  for 
their  commitment  and  willingness  to  address  serious 
human rights concerns in an international forum.
A  number  of  other  country-specific  resolutions 
were  also  adopted  within  the  framework  of  technical 
cooperation  and  capacity-building, 
including  on 
Cambodia, the Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea, Haiti, 
Libya,  Mali,  Somalia,  South  Sudan,  the  Sudan  and 
Yemen.
At  this  juncture,  I  should  highlight  the  important 
role  of  the  regular  update,  at  the  beginning  of  each 
Council  session,  by 
the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  on  developments  in  the  world  and 
the  numerous  reports  presented,  including  on  Mali, 
Guinea,  Afghanistan,  Libya,  Colombia,  Guatemala, 
Bolivia,  Cyprus,  Iran,  Sri  Lanka  and  Yemen,  among 
others,  which  have  tremendously  contributed  to  the 
deliberations of the Council.
During its past three regular sessions, among other 
debates, the Council held a total of 13 panel discussions 
on themes such as the impact of corruption on human 
rights, the contribution of parliaments to the work of the 
Council and its universal periodic review, business and 
human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the human 
rights  of  children  of  parents  sentenced  to  the  death 
penalty  or  executed,  gender  integration,  indigenous 
peoples, the rights of children, and the rights of persons 
with disabilities, as well as the promotion of technical 
cooperation in the area of the administration of justice.
The Council also held high-level panel discussions 
to  mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Vienna 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action,  during  which 
we  heard  a  video  address  by  the  Secretary-General. 
The  discussion  focused  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Vienna Declaration and a review of the achievements, 
best  practices  and  challenges  in  that  regard.  In 
addition, this year’s high-level panel on human rights 
mainstreaming, with heads and the senior officials of 
United Nations agencies, focused on human rights and 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  with  a  particular 
13-56114
3/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
focus  on  the  right  to  education.  The  participation  of 
the  Secretary-General  in  the  panel  demonstrated  his 
commitment to ensuring the integration of human rights 
in development efforts. The panels held throughout the 
year benefitted from the expertise and perspectives of 
panellists,  including  representatives  of  Governments, 
parliaments,  human  rights  mechanisms,  international 
and  regional  organizations,  academia,  civil  society 
representing  affected  communities,  United  Nations 
agencies and journalists.
Finally, 
the  Council  established  new  special 
procedures  mandates,  both  country  and  thematic, 
bringing  the  total  number  of  mandates  to  51.  The 
new  mandates  include  the  Independent  Expert  on  the 
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights  by  older  persons,  the 
independent  expert  on  the  situation  of  human  rights 
in Mali and the Independent Expert on the situation of 
human rights in the Central African Republic.
In  2013,  the  Council  adopted  a  total  of  107 
resolutions, decisions and President’s statements. Also, 
the  number  of  cross-regional  initiatives  continued  to 
increase,  underscoring  the  capacity  of  the  Council 
to  take  action  on  important  human  rights  issues  by 
overcoming different political positions. For instance, 
the resolutions on local Government and human rights; 
on the elimination of child, early and forced marriages; 
on  the  role  of  the  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression 
in women’s empowerment; and on the question of the 
death penalty; as well as country-specific issues, were 
submitted  by  cross-regional  groups  of  States.  Many 
of the resolutions were adopted without a vote. At the 
September session, for instance, of 40 resolutions and 
decisions,  33  were  adopted  without  a  vote.  That  also 
demonstrates the increased capacity of the Council to 
agree on issues relating to the protection of those most 
in need. The number of cross-regional joint statements 
has also increased, covering a range of topics.
Let me now turn to the role of civil society in the 
proceedings  of  the  Council.  The  active  participation 
and contribution of civil society organizations is central 
to the work of the Human Rights Council and makes it a 
unique forum among United Nations intergovernmental 
organs. It is therefore essential that representatives of 
civil society operate in a free, open and safe environment 
that  protects  and  promotes  their  own  human  rights. 
I  have  personally  condemned  acts  of  reprisal  in  the 
context of sessions of the Council and of the universal 
periodic review (UPR) and have repeatedly stated that 
any acts of intimidation or reprisal against individuals 
or  groups  that  cooperate  or  have  cooperated  with  the 
United Nations and its representatives are unacceptable 
and must end.
It is the Council’s and its President’s responsibility to 
address in an effective manner all cases of intimidation 
or reprisal and to ensure unhindered access to all who 
seek to cooperate with United Nations mechanisms. In 
that  regard,  Human  Rights  Council  resolution  24/24, 
on  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  the  field 
of  human  rights,  adopted  last  September,  is  of  the 
utmost importance. It requests the Secretary-General, 
in  cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR),  to 
designate  a  United  Nations-wide  senior  focal  point 
on  reprisals  and  aims  at  promoting  the  prevention  of, 
protection against and accountability for reprisals and 
intimidation  related  to  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations.
I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
we  have  made  some  progress  on  the  issue  of  making 
the  work  of  the  Council  accessible  to  persons  with 
disabilities  pursuant  to  the  legal  obligations  arising 
from  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities and in line with the mandate given to the 
Council’s task force on the issue. At every session of the 
Council, in addition to the annual panel on the rights of 
persons with disabilities, one panel was made accessible 
to disabled persons. At the most recent session of the 
Council  in  September,  for  example,  the  annual  panel 
on  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples,  which  focused 
on  the  World  Conference  on  Indigenous  Peoples,  was 
made accessible to persons with disabilities through the 
provision of international sign language interpretation, 
captioning  and  a  webcast  of  the  session.  We  at  the 
Council  remain  committed  through  the  task  force  to 
share best practices on accessibility. The task force will 
continue  to  report  to  the  Council  on  progress  on  the 
issue.
Let  me  now  make  a  few  remarks  relating  to 
the  universal  periodic  review.  We  are  now  firmly 
engaged  in  the  second  cycle  of  the  UPR,  and  the 
process continues to receive positive feedback from all 
stakeholders involved. However, I must point out that 
we have faced a number of challenges in, for example, 
upholding the principle of universality by ensuring the 
participation  of  all  States  and  in  avoiding  that  issues 
of a bilateral, territorial nature have a negative impact 
on the process. Furthermore, it is my firm conviction 
that,  by  applying  all  existing  practices  and  rules  in  a 
4/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
consistent  manner  to  all  States  under  review,  we  will 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  UPR’s  credibility  and 
to a successful second cycle of the review, taking into 
account one of its principles, namely, that of the equal 
treatment of all States under review.
financial situation, I would like to seek the cooperation 
and support of all Member States to address the issue, 
through the Fifth Committee, by positively considering 
options on how to address the funding of new mandates 
arising from resolutions and decisions of the Council.
I wish to acknowledge the fact that the constructive, 
consensual  and  non-politicized  approach  maintained 
by  the  Council  throughout  this  year  has  encouraged 
Israel  to  re-engage  with  the  UPR.  I  welcome  Israel’s 
re-engagement,  as  it  upholds  the  integrity  and  the 
universality of that important process.
in 
the 
Universal participation is essential to the process, 
and  many  among  the  participants  today  have  been 
involved  in  ensuring  the  presence  of  delegations 
from  countries  far  away  from  Geneva  and  without  a 
Permanent Mission in that city. I would like to thank 
them for their efforts. In that regard, I participated in 
the interregional seminar to facilitate the participation 
of  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  and  small  island 
developing States (SIDS) in the Human Rights Council 
and  its  universal  periodic  review,  which  was  held  on 
30  and  31  July  in  Mauritius.  That  was  the  first  time 
that  such  a  seminar  was  organized.  It  focused  on 
facilitating the participation of small island developing 
States  and  least  developed  countries  in  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  universal  periodic 
review  mechanism.  Participants 
two-day 
seminar included 23 delegates from 14 LDCs or SIDS. 
During  the  seminar,  they  received  comprehensive 
information  and  tools  on  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  its  subsidiary  mechanisms,  particularly  the  UPR. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Government  of 
Mauritius for hosting the seminar and the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR) for having successfully organized the event.
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  touch  briefly 
upon  the  significant  challenges  the  Human  Rights 
Council is facing in terms of resources required for it 
to continue its activities. As I said earlier, the Council 
continues  to  adopt  a  high  number  of  resolutions  and 
decisions, giving rise to new mandates for Office of the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  implement, 
carrying  significant  resource  implications.  Indeed, 
while  the  OHCHR  is  requested  to  comply  with  an 
increasing  number  of  mandates  stemming  from  the 
Council’s decisions, its regular budget has not kept pace 
with  that  growth.  The  OHCHR  therefore  often  has  to 
rely on voluntary contributions to implement mandated 
activities.  Although  I  am  fully  aware  of  the  current 
I  have  held  the  presidency  since  January  2013 
and will end my term at the end of this year. I would 
like  to  conclude  by  assuring  the  General  Assembly 
of my commitment to see a successful transfer of the 
presidency to my successor. I hope that the Assembly 
will  continue  to  provide  its  full  and  efficient  support 
to  the  Council  during  its  eighth  cycle.  On  behalf  of 
my successor, I would like to welcome all members to 
the  twenty-fifth  session  of  the  Council,  to  be  held  in 
Geneva in March 2014.
Mrs. Bibalou (Gabon): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Group of African States.
The African Group welcomes the President of the 
Human Rights Council, His Excellency Mr. Remigiusz 
Achilles Henczel, and wishes to extend its appreciation 
for this opportunity to hold a dialogue on the activities 
of  the  Council  during  its  seventh  cycle  as  set  out  in 
the report of the Human Rights Council (A/68/53). We 
also  welcome  the  President’s  leadership  of  that  body 
throughout the year.
to  reaffirm 
The  African  Group  wishes 
the 
Council’s  mandate,  as  contained  in  resolution  60/251, 
in  promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of 
all  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all, 
without distinction of any kind and in a fair and equal 
manner, and to make recommendations thereon. It is on 
that basis that the Group has consistently supported the 
work of the Council.
The  Group  views  the  principles  underpinning  the 
Council’s  mandate  as  important,  particularly  with 
respect  to  the  principle  of  cooperation  and  genuine 
dialogue aimed at strengthening the capacity of Member 
States to comply with their human rights obligations. It 
is therefore incumbent upon the Council in discharging 
its mandate to firmly ground its work on universality, 
objectivity and non-selectivity in the consideration of 
human rights issues.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  universal  periodic 
review (UPR) remains the most distinct mechanism of 
universal application to assist States in fulfilling their 
human rights obligations. In our view, that mechanism 
remains relevant and key as it concerns the promotion 
and protection of human rights. It is therefore critical 
13-56114
5/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
that  the  United  Nations  voluntary  fund  for  financial 
and technical assistance for the implementation of the 
UPR be properly resourced for the purpose of assisting 
States to develop their national capacity and expertise 
for the implementation of recommendations.
mechanisms  currently  being  utilized  in  other  United 
Nations  bodies  prior  to  such  a  determination  being 
made by the Human Rights Council. The Group wishes 
to reiterate its position on rejecting any form of reprisals 
on individuals or groups.
The Group reiterates its support for the mechanisms 
and special procedures of the Council and the important 
work they undertake in the promotion and protection of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
In recent times, the Council has faced governance 
challenges,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  erosion 
of  the  provisions  of  the  institution-building  package, 
which  is  the  solid  foundation  on  which  its  mandate 
rests. The Group is concerned that the erosion could, in 
the long run, present credibility gaps in its work.
While  the  Group  has  also  noted  the  immense 
work  that  the  Council  engages  in  at  each  session,  the 
challenges presented by a shortage of funding remains 
unresolved. The African Group believes, therefore, that 
those funding shortages will affect the implementation 
of the decisions and resolutions of the Council. We also 
wish to recognize the key role played by the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  as  the  secretariat  of  the  Council,  in  ensuring 
that appropriate support is given to the Council in line 
with the framework of resolution 48/141.
The  annual  report  (A/68/53)  submitted  to  the 
General  Assembly  presents  a  comprehensive  picture 
of  the  deliberations  that  have  taken  place  during 
the  Council’s  seventh  cycle  year.  The  Group  is  also 
cognizant of the provisions of paragraph 5 of resolution 
60/251,  which  provides  for  recommendations  to  be 
made by the Council to the Third Committee, hence its 
support  for  the  universal  membership  of  the  General 
Assembly to deliberate on those important matters.
to 
The  African  Group  believes 
that  Human 
Rights  Council  resolution  24/24,  adopted  during  its 
twenty-fourth  session  in  September,  makees  critical 
recommendations 
the  General  Assembly  with 
respect to the designation of the United Nations-wide 
senior  focal  point  to  prevent,  protect  against  and 
promote accountability for reprisals and intimidation. 
It  is  the  view  of  the  Group  that  such  a  matter  needs 
further reflection and deliberation by the general and 
universal  membership  of  the  General  Assembly  prior 
to  a  determination  being  made.  Equally,  the  Group 
believes that a feasibility study should, as a matter of 
necessity, be undertaken to take stock of the different 
In  conclusion, 
the  African  Group  wishes 
to 
reassure the President of the Council of our support in 
the preparations for the eighth cycle year of the Human 
Rights Council.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Ms.  Kaljulate  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The candidate countries the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Iceland  and  Serbia;  the 
countries of the Stabilization and Association Process 
and  potential  candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of Moldova, align 
themselves with this statement.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Henczel,  for  introducing  the  Council’s  eighth  annual 
report  (A/68/53)  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  also 
appreciated  the  opportunity  to  hold  an  interactive 
dialogue with the Human Rights Council President at 
the Third Committee.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  European  Union  has  been  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  main  United  Nations  human  rights 
body. The Council has strengthened the ability of the 
United  Nations  to  ensure  that  all  persons  enjoy  their 
human  rights.  We  attach  great  importance  to  the 
credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council  and  will 
continue to make every effort to ensure that it is able 
to  address  situations  of  violations  of  human  rights, 
including gross and systematic violations, and respond 
promptly  to  human  rights  emergencies,  but  also  to 
improve  human  rights  standards  worldwide  through 
systematic work on various thematic issues.
In view of that, the European Union is very pleased 
to note that the Council has maintained its leadership 
in  addressing  human  rights  situations.  In  particular, 
the Council’s response to the crisis in the Syrian Arab 
Republic  is  highly  important,  including  the  holding 
of an urgent debate and extending the mandate of the 
Commission of Inquiry, which is the only international 
investigative  mechanism  on  human  rights  violations 
6/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
in  the  country.  The  Council  has  also  demonstrated 
its  commitment  to  providing  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building to the Governments of Afghanistan, 
Cambodia, the Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  the  Republic  of 
Guinea, Haiti, Mali, Somalia, South Sudan, the Sudan 
and Yemen to promote human rights. The EU hopes that 
the  Council  will  continue  to  follow  situations  where 
technical assistance and capacity-building can make a 
difference, and take action where necessary.
On Tuesday, the General Assembly elected 14 new 
members of the Council (see A/68/PV.51). Serving as a 
member  entails  important  responsibilities.  Resolution 
60/251  provides  that  members  elected  to  the  Council 
shall uphold the highest standards in the promotion and 
protection of human rights. We encourage all to pay full 
attention to the human rights records and human rights 
commitments  of  States  throughout  their  membership, 
as well as at the time of the elections.
The  EU  highly  values 
the  work  of  special 
procedures  and  is  firmly  convinced  that  they  play  a 
crucial  role  in  advancing  the  human  rights  agenda. 
As  we  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action,  which 
has  anchored  the  system  of  special  procedures  in  the 
international human rights protection system, we still 
need  to  significantly  improve  the  overall  cooperation 
among  States  and  mandate  holders.  All  EU  member 
States have extended a standing invitation to the special 
procedures, and the EU calls upon all United Nations 
Members to do likewise and to actively cooperate with 
them. In order to allow special procedures to perform 
their role, it is crucial that mandate holders be able to 
independently assess and draw the Council’s attention 
to human rights issues and situations. The EU welcomes 
the use of the collective voice of the special procedures 
and the growing participation of mandate holders in the 
Council.
Given  the  situation  in  the  countries,  the  EU 
welcomes  the  extension  of  the  mandates  on  Belarus, 
Eritrea,  Myanmar/Burma  and  Iran.  We  welcome  the 
extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur and 
the  establishment  of  a  commission  of  inquiry  on  the 
situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, as well as the mandate renewals of 
the Special Rapporteur on Eritrea and the Independent 
Experts  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire, the Sudan, Somalia and Haiti, and the creation 
of  new  Independent  Expert  mandates  on  the  Central 
African Republic and Mali.
role 
their 
through 
Thematic  special  procedures  play  an  equally 
important 
research,  country-
specific  visits  and  valuable  contribution  to  the  better 
understanding  of 
the  content  of  specific  human 
rights  and  their  contribution  to  the  enhancement  and 
realization  of  human  rights  standards.  Among  the 
many thematic special procedures, the EU would like 
to highlight the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on 
the freedom of religion or belief, who plays an active 
role in identifying existing and emerging obstacles to 
the  enjoyment  of  the  right  to  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief  and  presenting  recommendations  to  overcome 
such obstacles.
The European Union remains strongly committed 
to the universal periodic review (UPR), a truly universal 
and  unique  mechanism  within  the  United  Nations 
that  addresses  all  human  rights  and  applies  to  all 
Member  States  without  distinction  or  discrimination. 
That  mechanism  serves  as  an  ongoing  contribution 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  on  the  ground.  Preserving  the 
universality  of  the  universal  periodic  review  process 
is  of  paramount  importance,  and  in  that  regard  the 
Council has been successful.
of 
the 
the 
quality 
Ultimately, 
review 
recommendations  and  the  commitment  to  implement 
them  are  key  for  the  outcome  of  that  process.  In 
accordance  with  existing  rules  and  practice,  all 
recommendations made during the interactive dialogue 
need to be included and noted as such in the report of 
the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review. 
Equal treatment of all countries is an underlying element 
of  the  UPR  mechanism,  and  needs  to  be  maintained 
throughout each cycle. In that regard, we welcome the 
President’s letter clarifying certain procedural aspects 
of the UPR process.
The  EU  wishes  in  particular  to  highlight  and 
welcome  several  important  developments  during  the 
reporting period.
First, the enjoyment of human rights by women and 
girls  figured  as  a  major  theme  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  agenda  during  the  period  under  review.  The 
Council  decided  to  hold  a  panel  discussion  on  the 
prevention  and  elimination  of  child,  early  and  forced 
marriage, placing that issue on the Council agenda for 
13-56114
7/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
the first time. The Council also decided to hold a panel 
discussion on female genital mutilation.
Secondly,  the  Council  addressed  the  issue  of  the 
death penalty through two new initiatives.
Thirdly,  the  Council  continued  its  crucial  work 
on  the  rights  of  the  child,  with  a  full-day  annual 
panel  discussion  and  a  resolution,  presented  jointly 
by  the  European  Union  and  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  Group,  dedicated  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
highest attainable standard of health.
Fourthly, 
the  Council  also  adopted 
its  first 
resolution  on  creating  and  maintaining,  in  law  and 
in  practice,  a  safe  and  enabling  environment  for  civil 
society, underlining the important role of civil society 
in the promotion and protection of human rights.
The  EU  reiterates  its  strongest  condemnation 
of  acts  of  reprisals  and  intimidation  of  civil  society 
representatives  attending  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  cooperating  with  human  rights  mechanisms  and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights.  Contributions  by  civil  society 
organizations  and  national  human  rights  institutions 
are extremely valuable to the work of the Council. Their 
ability to interact with the Council must be preserved. 
We appreciate Mr. Henczel’s vocal role as President and 
his  efforts  to  preserve  space  for  civil  society.  We  are 
very pleased that the President’s role has been formally 
acknowledged  in  that  regard  through  the  Council’s 
resolution  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  its 
representatives and mechanisms in the field of human 
rights.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  our  unwavering 
commitment  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights Council and to further strengthen its role in the 
development  of  international  human  rights  law.  We 
will continue to systematically uphold and ensure the 
implementation  of  existing  international  norms  and 
standards,  to  strongly  advocate  for  the  universality 
of human rights and to promote the observance by all 
States of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr. Rajeeve (India): We thank the President of the 
Human Rights Council for his briefing on the activities 
of the Council.
Human  rights  questions  are  among  the  most 
important and cross-cutting of all subjects in the realm 
of international discussions today. The strength of the 
Human Rights Council lies in its emphasis on dialogue, 
cooperation,  transparency  and  non-selectivity  in  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  We  believe  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  should  emerge  as  a  forum 
for  voluntary  participation  and  for  sharing  national 
experiences  and  best  practices  in  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights. There should be emphasis 
on  capacity-building  of  States  through  technical  and 
financial assistance.
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  actions  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  organs  should  be  anchored  in 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
We  believe  that  the  collaboration  of  all  States,  in  the 
spirit  of  equal  and  mutually  respectful  dialogue,  is 
the most effective tool to promote and protect human 
rights.  That  will  not  only  strengthen  the  confidence 
of all interested parties in the Human Rights Council 
and  its  mechanisms,  but  will  also  contribute  to  the 
reinforcement  of  the  Council’s  political  and  moral 
authority and credibility.
like 
We  would 
the  High  Commissioner 
to  express  our  appreciation 
to 
for  Human  Rights, 
Ms. Navenetham Pillay, and her Office for supporting 
the work of the Human Rights Council. Serious thought 
needs to be given to increasing the accountability of the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights (OHCHR) to the Human Rights Council. 
We  believe  that  our  common  endeavour  to  promote 
and  protect  all  human  rights  for  all  globally  can  be 
advanced further through a formalized interaction that 
strengthens institutional linkages between the Council 
and OHCHR.
issues  such  as  OHCHR’s  strategic 
Regular  interaction  between  OHCHR  and  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva  and  the  General 
Assembly  in  New  York  is  important  for  deliberations 
on 
thematic 
priorities, budgetary considerations, staffing, et cetera. 
It  remains  a  matter  of  concern  that  OHCHR  depends 
on voluntary funding for two-thirds of its budget. That 
financial dependence distorts strategic planning and the 
allocation of available resources in OHCHR’s work. The 
geographical  imbalance  in  the  staffing  pattern  of  the 
Office also continues to be a matter of concern. Those 
matters require greater attention and deliberation.
Special  procedures  are  an  important  mechanism 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  a  genuine  dialogue 
for strengthening the capacity of Member States. It is 
therefore important that Special Rapporteurs maintain 
8/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
confidence by adhering to the code of conduct and their 
mandates established by the Council. We also reiterate 
the  importance  of  ensuring  the  equitable  distribution 
of  financial  resources  among  all  special  procedures 
mandate holders through a transparent process. In that 
regard,  we  would  like  to  request  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  reflect  on  those  important 
issues  and  exchange  views  on  the  steps  that  can  be 
taken by the Council.
I  would  also  like  to  briefly  refer  to  the  issue  of 
reprisals. We share the view that any act of reprisal or 
intimidation  is  unacceptable  and  must  be  dealt  with 
effectively. However, we regret that the Human Rights 
Council was unable to address that issue in a unified 
manner.  We  are  in  fact  concerned  by  attempts  in  the 
Council  to  trespass  into  areas  that  do  not  lie  strictly 
within its mandate.
The  appointment  of  a  United  Nations-wide 
mechanism on reprisals that will address other United 
Nations  entities  not  primarily  dealing  with  human 
rights  issues  is  the  prerogative  of  the  body  that  has 
universal  representation.  We  would  have  preferred 
that  such  matters  be  transmitted  to  the  competent 
body — the General Assembly — of which the Human 
Rights Council is a subsidiary body. We would like to 
underline  the  importance  of  the  Council’s  adherence 
to  the  institution-building  package  in  carrying  out  its 
mandate.
Allow me also to place on record our appreciation 
to  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Mr.  Remigiusz  Henczel,  for  the  smooth  and  effective 
manner  in  which  he  has  conducted  the  deliberations 
of  the  Council.  We  also  appreciate  his  efforts  in 
streamlining  the  work  of  the  Council  through  the 
annual  voluntary  calendar  of  Human  Rights  Council 
thematic resolutions.
that 
We  believe 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  continue  to  rationalize  and  prioritize  its  work 
to  make  the  most  efficient  use  of  limited  resources.  
We  reiterate  our  firm  commitment  to  continuing  to 
engage constructively with all Member States to make 
the  Council  more  effective,  efficient  and  responsive. 
We  believe  we  can  advance  our  common  cause  only 
through dialogue and cooperation.
Mrs. Morgan (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
like to begin by thanking the President of the Human 
Rights  Council,  Ambassador  Remigiusz  Achilles 
Henczel,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  on  the 
Council (A/68/53).
Mexico  is  firmly  committed  to  strengthening 
the  international  system  of  human  rights  and  thereby 
consolidating the Human Rights Council. The Council 
is the premier multilateral body for promoting human 
rights, preventing new violations and developing ways 
of  ensuring  protection  and  non-recurrence.  Faithful 
to  that  commitment,  we  were  active  participants  in 
the  establishment  of  the  Council,  and  we  maintain  a 
permanent  policy  of  cooperation  with  the  specialized 
mechanisms of the United Nations and the Organization 
of  American  States,  including  an  open  invitation  to 
visit  our  country.  Since  2009,  my  country  has  had 
nine  visits  from  the  United  Nations  inter-American 
system  mechanism  and  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights. Thanks to the agreement and support of 
political  stakeholders,  civil  society  organizations  and 
national and international human rights bodies with the 
ability to promote a joint agenda benefiting Mexicans, 
we  have  made  progress  in  the  area  of  human  rights, 
putting us on the road to achieving a society of rights 
and a country of opportunity for all.
Aware  that  the  recognition  and  protection  of 
human  rights  should  be  guiding  principles  for  State 
action,  in  2011  we  enacted  human-rights  reforms  of 
our  Constitution,  representing  the  largest  expansion 
of  rights  therein  since  its  promulgation  in  1917.  The 
2011 reform recognizes the importance of human rights 
under international treaties to which Mexico is a party, 
establishing the people-first principles of universality, 
progressivity, interdependence and indivisibility. 
Less than a month ago, Mexico submitted its second 
report  to  the  universal  periodic  review  mechanism, 
focusing  on  the  implementation  and  follow-up  to  the 
recommendations received in its first evaluation. In that 
exercise, the extent of the interventions was testament 
to the universality of this instrument, in which States 
participate on an equal footing, and demonstrated the 
mechanism’s  importance  as  one  of  the  main  tools  by 
which the Human Rights Council can comprehensively 
address the human rights situation in every State. The 
report  allowed  us  to  identify  areas  where  we  have 
made progress in human rights but also where we have 
significant  setbacks  and  challenges  to  overcome.  We 
are  aware  that  protecting  human  rights  is  a  constant 
task  and  inherent  part  of  building  our  democracy, 
and  we  therefore  welcome  this  comprehensive  and 
13-56114
9/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
participatory  exercise,  which  reflects  our  country’s 
plurality.
the  current 
Mexico  has  been  and  will  continue  to  be  a 
responsible  and  active  participant  in  building  and 
operating 
international  human  rights 
framework. During our next term as a member of the 
Council, beginning on 1 January 2014, we will continue 
to  promote  respect  for  and  promotion  of  the  rights  of 
migrants,  people  with  disabilities  and  indigenous 
peoples. We will also submit initiatives, among others, 
aimed  at  countering  and  eliminating  discrimination 
against  women,  protecting  human  rights  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism,  and  promoting  the  registration  of 
births  and  the  right  to  recognition  as  a  person  before 
the law.
It is also important to emphasize that we consider 
it  fundamental  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  focus 
on  preventing  impunity  by  documenting  situations 
of  serious  violations  of  human  rights.  In  the  context 
of  cooperation  that  is  typical  of  the  Council,  Mexico 
is  working  on  actions  on  three  fronts  —  reaffirming 
human  rights  as  Government  policy;  helping  the 
Council to deal effectively with its challenges, political 
as  well  as  institutional  and  normative;  and  extending 
the  support  it  makes  available  in  sharing  experiences 
and lessons learned with other Member States.
The  report  we  are  considering  today  reflects  the 
large  number  of  new  initiatives  addressing  issues 
relevant  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights in the context of the Council. We also welcome 
the  strengthening  of  the  Council’s  mandates  over  the 
past  year.  We  know  that  the  Council’s  relevance  is 
dependent on its members, and we recognize that it is the 
responsibility  of  States  to  strengthen  its  effectiveness 
and  the  priority  that  the  General  Assembly  and  other 
organs of the system accord its recommendations. For 
that  reason,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  an  increasing 
number  of  States  are  recognizing  the  Council  and  its 
primary  role  in  incorporating  human  rights  into  all 
United Nations activities.
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  We  appreciate  the 
opportunity to speak on this agenda item, which is of 
high priority to the Philippines as a founding and current 
member of the Human Rights Council. We would like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  Council,  Ambassador 
Remigiusz Achilles Henczel, for introducing its annual 
report to the General Assembly (A/68/53).
The Philippines supports the Human Rights Council 
in its efforts to strengthen the promotion and protection 
of  human  rights  and  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
maintenance  of  its  credibility  and  effectiveness  in 
addressing  human  rights  violations.  We  congratulate 
the  newly  elected  members  of  the  Council  and,  as  a 
current and founding member, look forward to continue 
working closely with all stakeholders to ensure that the 
Council fulfils its mandate, fosters healthy dialogue and 
cooperation  and  contributes  to  concrete  and  positive 
changes to the human rights situation on the ground.
Given  the  number  of  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Council this year, covering a broad array of issues, we 
stand  committed  more  than  ever  to  exerting  greater 
efforts to ensure that the Council remains responsibly 
responsive in the face of current and emerging human 
rights  challenges.  As  the  Council,  together  with  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  continues  to  develop  international 
human  rights  standards  and  to  work  for  greater 
consistency in normative frameworks, it is our position 
that  the  Council  should  remain  focused  on  helping 
and encouraging all countries to build an environment 
enabling  them  to  better  promote  the  human  rights  of 
their  peoples,  in  constructive  cooperation  with  the 
international community and civil society. It should be 
a partner of all States and stakeholders in the promotion 
and protection of all human rights, with a strong focus 
on  capacity-building  and  international  cooperation, 
and it must continue to work in a constructive manner, 
engaging in meaningful interaction with them.
to 
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  made  reasonable 
progress in fulfilling its mandate as set forth in resolution 
60/251. We value the universal periodic review (UPR) 
as  an  effective  mechanism  of  the  Council,  helping 
to  ensure  the  principles  of  universality,  objectivity 
and  fairness,  and 
institutionalize  cooperative 
and  constructive  dialogue  on  human  rights  in  a  less 
politicized and non-selective manner. The participation 
by all States in the first cycle reflects the universality 
and credibility of the UPR as an effective mechanism. It 
is our sincere hope that all Member States will continue 
to  participate  in  the  second  cycle,  to  maintain  the 
universality and credibility of the UPR as a mechanism 
of the Council. The UPR is a continuing process, and 
not merely a venue for scheduled reporting and review. 
The second cycle serves as an important follow-up to 
the recommendations that are made, and Member States 
have the primary responsibility for recognizing that.
10/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
The  special  procedures  have  an  important  role  in 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights.  They  bring 
alleged  violations  or  abuses  to  world  attention,  raise 
public  awareness,  contribute  to  the  development  of 
international  human  rights  standards  and  provide 
advice  for  technical  cooperation.  However,  in  the 
performance of those tasks, the special procedures must 
always be guided by the objectives of resolution 60/251, 
which  recognizes  that  the  promotion  and  protection 
of  human  rights  should  be  based  on  the  principles  of 
cooperation and genuine dialogue and should be aimed 
at  strengthening  the  capacity  of  Member  States  to 
comply  with  their  human  rights  obligations,  for  the 
benefit  of  all  human  beings.  While  the  independence 
of mandate holders is vital to their work, it must always 
be  balanced  with  important  considerations,  such  as 
professionalism, integrity, efficiency and effectiveness.
Discussions  on  the  strengthening  of  the  human 
rights treaty bodies will resume next month. We look 
forward to actively participating in the discussions and 
hope that we can, within a reasonable period, conclude 
with  an  outcome  that  is  acceptable  to  all.  There  are 
several  outstanding  issues  that  need  to  be  discussed 
further.  Ultimately  for  us,  however,  strengthening 
the  treaty  body  system  means  having  a  meaningful 
impact  on  both  rights-holders  and  duty-bearers,  with 
the  end  goal  of  promoting  an  enabling  environment 
for  the  effective  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  all 
persons,  particularly  those  who  are  most  vulnerable, 
such as women and children, persons with disabilities, 
migrant  workers  and  persons  vulnerable  to  racial 
discrimination, not just on the domestic level but on the 
international level as well.
Twenty years ago, the World Conference on Human 
Rights  adopted  by  consensus  the  Vienna  Declaration 
and Programme of Action, which reaffirmed the right 
to  development  as  a  universal  and  inalienable  right 
and  an  integral  part  of  fundamental  human  rights. 
Three  overarching  themes  were  at  the  heart  of  the 
World  Conference:  the  universality  of  human  rights, 
the  importance  of  democratic  participation  and  the 
imperative  of  development.  Sadly,  the  latter  seems 
not to have been given the attention it deserves, even 
though it is rooted in the Charter of the United Nations 
and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  My 
delegation will therefore continue to advocate for, and 
support discussions on, the right to development, with 
a  view  to  ensuring  its  realization,  particularly  in  the 
Human Rights Council.
Also related to development, my country has now 
been subjected to massive devastation and destruction 
wrought  not  by  a  super  storm  but  by  a  monster 
storm  —  the  strongest  storm  in  recorded  history.  Yet 
some  scientists  are  still  not  in  agreement  that  such 
natural  phenomena  are  directly  related  to  climate 
change.  All  we  know  is  that  we  suffer  the  brunt,  the 
wrath  of  nature,  and  what  we  have  observed  in  more 
than five years are the increased frequency and ferocity 
of the storms and typhoons visiting our shores. In fact, 
we also observe that typhoons visiting the Philippines 
have in fact also taken new paths not taken by typhoons 
in the past. We hope that the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and the Warsaw Climate 
Change  Conference,  taking  place  this  month,  will  be 
able to produce a real outcome that will make a dent on 
climate change, finally securing planet Earth. 
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  convey 
the  genuine  gratitude  of  my  Government  for  the 
solidarity  shown  by  the  United  Nations  system  and 
the  international  community  and  the  unprecedented 
support  given  to  my  country  now  that  it  is  suffering 
dire need and is in an extremely difficult situation. This 
has  been  unprecedented  support  by  the  international 
community given in the aftermath of the unprecedented 
storm that visited my country.
It may be recalled that in the Human Rights Council 
in  2011,  the  Philippines,  together  with  Bangladesh, 
introduced  a  draft  resolution  on  human  rights  and 
climate change that reiterated the concern that climate 
change  posed  an  immediate  and  far-reaching  threat 
to people and communities around the world and had 
implications  on  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights. 
My country knows that at first hand. What is there to 
promote when even Government is not present during 
times of real massive destruction?
remain  steadfast 
In  conclusion,  we 
in  our 
commitment  to  providing  a  meaningful  contribution 
to  the  work  of  the  Council  and  to  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.
Mr.  AlSaleh  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Today 
we  are  discussing  one  of  the  most  important  items 
inscribed on the agenda, namely, the work of the Human 
Rights Council. I would like to thank the Human Rights 
Council for the efforts it has made, as set out in its report 
(A/68/53), as well as its coverage of topics relating to 
human rights, including, most significantly, the right to 
13-56114
11/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
freedom of expression and issues pertaining to women, 
children and education, among others. The report also 
covers other important aspects of human rights, such as 
matters concerning non-discrimination, the rejection of 
violence and the prevention of genocide, that reflect the 
important role undertaken by the Council to defend and 
promote human rights.
In  the  context  of  our  efforts  to  promote  the  role 
and  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities  in  society,  the 
State  of  Kuwait  acceded  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  on  22  August,  in 
implementation  of  our  commitment  to  the  Human 
Rights  Council  during  our  submission  under  the 
universal periodic review. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  contributes  effectively  to 
promoting  human  rights  at  the  international  level 
through 
international 
organizations, politically and materially, as reflected in 
its efforts since it joined the Human Rights Council in 
mid-2011.
to  States  and 
its  support 
A look into the situation of human rights in Kuwait 
reveals that they are, to a great extent, a reality. That is 
due to the fact that instituting them was not a spur-of-
the-moment reaction or a new concern in the State of 
Kuwait. Rather, since our country’s inception, human 
rights  have  been  rooted  in  our  universal  Islamic  and 
Arab heritage. They constitute a principle that we have 
adopted, and we do not deviate from them because we 
believe in respect for lofty human rights and values.
When  Kuwait  drafted  its  Constitution  in  1962,  it 
took  into  consideration  human  rights  in  general,  and 
it  placed  international  instruments  and  declarations 
among  the  most  important  reference  points.  Human 
dignity  in  the  State  of  Kuwait  is  protected.  Many 
provisions  stipulate  that,  including  articles  29  and  31 
of our first Constitution, which emphasize equality and 
human dignity and the impermissibility of imprisoning 
persons  except  by  law.  The  Constitution  took  into 
consideration  the  rights  of  workers  residing  on  our 
territory. Article 40 of the Constitution provides that the 
right to education is enshrined in our law; we provide 
free compulsory education at all educational stages.
The  State  of  Kuwait  emphasizes  its  commitment 
to  the  standards  of  human  rights,  and  the  Kuwaiti 
Constitution issued in 1962 conforms to those criteria. 
Article  35  stipulates  that  the  freedom  of  belief  is 
absolute,  and  the  State  protects  religious  rights  and 
rituals.  With  regard  to  the  freedom  of  opinion  and 
expression,  article  36  of  our  Constitution  stipulates 
that the freedoms of opinion and of scientific research 
are guaranteed. Every person has the right to express 
his opinion verbally and in writing under the law: our 
Constitution  underscores  the  freedom  to  write,  print 
and  publish.  Article  37  stipulates  that  freedom  of  the 
press and printing is guaranteed by law. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  provides  many  forms  of 
humanitarian  assistance  through  international  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  such  as  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, as it believes in the need to promote international 
peace and security and human rights. As a result, the 
State  of  Kuwait  hosted  the  first  international  donors 
conference for Syria last January, at which more than 
$1.5  billion  was  pledged  in  support  of  humanitarian 
activities  in  that  country.  We  also  welcome  the  call 
of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  host  a  second 
donors  conference  next  year  in  Kuwait  in  order  to 
alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Syria. 
We underscore our support for the draft resolution 
before the Third Committee on the situation of human 
rights  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  (A/C.3/68/L.42), 
which  strongly  condemns  the  continued  widespread 
and  systematic  gross  violations  of  human  rights  and 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  through 
the  continued  use  of  heavy  weapons  and  aerial 
bombardments  by  the  Syrian  authorities  in  populated 
areas.  We  also  condemn  all  such  violations  by  the 
armed opposition forces. 
We  also  condemn 
illegal  settlement 
activities  and  practices  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  and  its  continued  human  rights  violations 
against  the  Palestinian  people  through  restrictions  on 
their  freedom  of  movement,  the  confiscation  of  land, 
the  destruction  of  their  homes  and  the  imprisonment 
of thousands of Palestinians in conditions that breach 
basic human rights law. Israel also imposes an unjust 
blockade  on  Gaza  in  breach  of  human  rights  and  the 
relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions  and  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  of 
1949.  The  international  community  should  therefore 
shoulder its responsibilities and compel Israel to fulfil 
its obligations under international law.
Israel’s 
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  underscore  our 
respect for international human rights agreements and 
instruments.  We  support  all  efforts  to  promote  and 
uphold such instruments. We believe in strengthening 
our cooperation in that regard in order to achieve our 
12/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
joint aspirations for the advancement and prosperity of 
our nations and peoples.
Mr.  Barriga 
(Liechtenstein):  Liechtenstein 
welcomes President Henczel to the General Assembly 
and  thanks  him  for  his  introducing  the  Human 
Rights  Council’s  report  (A/68/53).  His  engagement  in 
promoting  and  improving  the  work  of  the  Council  is 
exemplary and part of a tradition of strong leadership 
in that body. The challenges that the Council has faced 
this  year  have  been  particularly  serious  due  to  their 
potential  to  affect  its  future  course.  Liechtenstein  is 
grateful to the President for his personal and successful 
commitment to preserving the integrity of the Council 
and its mechanisms, in particular the universality of the 
universal periodic review (UPR), which is the basis for 
constructive cooperation among Member States in the 
framework of the UPR. 
Liechtenstein sees in the participation in the UPR 
a first and necessary step towards the more substantive 
cooperation that every Member State should make on 
the  basis  of  its  sovereign  equality  —  a  principle  that 
is enshrined in the Charter and that is not negotiable. 
But, even with its universality preserved, the UPR has 
suffered from attempts at its politicization. Liechtenstein 
calls  on  all  States  to  refrain  from  interfering  in  the 
carefully designed proceedings of the UPR in order to 
ensure its continued functioning.
With  its  second  cycle  well  under  way,  the  UPR 
continues to bring key value added to the Council, in 
particular as compared to its predecessor body. It has 
developed  into  a  cornerstone  of  the  United  Nations 
human rights machinery. The UPR has also generated 
considerable momentum among States to examine and 
to  improve  their  domestic  human  rights  situations. 
It  promotes  ratification  of  the  core  human  rights 
instruments, and thus contributes to the long-term goal 
of achieving universality. 
At the same time, the second UPR cycle has shone 
a  spotlight  on  the  discrepancies  between  political 
commitment  and  implementation.  That  is  where  our 
emphasis should lie in future. States should increasingly 
aim  their  recommendations  at  the  implementation  of 
international  standards  by  focusing  on  concrete  and 
actionable steps to assist them in that regard. In parallel, 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  should  be  given  the  financial 
resources necessary to assist States in following up on 
their commitments. 
By  undergoing  the  second  cycle  of  the  UPR  in 
January  and  June,  Liechtenstein  has  again  benefited 
from a wealth of recommendations, the large majority of 
which it has accepted. Once implemented, we trust that 
those  recommendations  will  considerably  strengthen 
the  protection  of  human  rights  in  Liechtenstein,  as  is 
the case with other States that perceive the UPR as an 
opportunity to promote improvements.
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The Human Rights Council increasingly lives up to 
its responsibility to address human rights emergencies 
with  the  tools  at  its  disposal.  Liechtenstein  welcomes 
the repeated action of the Council to address the human 
rights  emergency  in  Syria.  At  the  same  time,  it  is 
sobering that the aspect of ending impunity has not been 
accorded the priority that it deserves. Accountability is 
key to ending the cycles of violence that have caused 
so  many  civilian  deaths  in  Syria.  The  Council  and 
its  mechanisms  must  therefore  take  a  clear  stance  on 
ensuring that justice is served for the victims in Syria. 
The  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Syria  continues 
to  do  valuable  work  in  gathering  evidence  of  mass 
atrocities.  It  is  hardly  comprehensible,  however,  that 
the  Commission  does  not  express  itself  more  clearly 
on  concrete  options  to  ensure  accountability.  In  our 
view,  that  can  be  detrimental  to  the  fulfilment  of  its 
mandate to establish the facts of alleged mass atrocities 
and to identify those responsible with a view to holding 
them accountable. In addition, a clear position by the 
Commission on judicial follow-up could help shape the 
current discussions on that subject. 
Liechtenstein continues to consider the International 
Criminal  Court  as  the  appropriate  institution  to  deal 
with the situation in Syria in the light of its gravity. We 
repeat our call on the Security Council to take action 
accordingly.
The Human Rights Council has again contributed 
substantially  to  both  long-standing  and  emerging 
human rights discussions. Liechtenstein welcomes the 
Council’s more active role in the global discussion on 
the death penalty and its implications. We look forward 
to  a  more  in-depth  and  systematic  look  at  that  issue 
under  the  framework  of  the  Council.  We  believe  that 
the  Council  can  make  an  important  contribution  to  a 
better  informed  and  less  confrontational  discussion 
aimed at concrete steps towards improved procedures, 
13-56114
13/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
strengthened safeguards and the gradual elimination of 
that practice. 
Liechtenstein  also  welcomes  the  decision  of  the 
Council  to  act  more  decisively  in  order  to  address 
reprisals  against  persons  who  cooperate  with  its 
mechanisms  and  the  Secretariat.  The  establishment 
of  a  high-level  focal  point  will,  we  hope,  contribute 
to the better protection of human rights defenders and 
victims of human rights violations who have made the 
brave decision to contribute to the work of the United 
Nations. Reprisals are among the most destructive ways 
in  which  States  violate  their  obligation  to  cooperate 
with  human  rights  procedures.  The  United  Nations 
therefore has a particular responsibility to protect those 
who contribute to its work and should step up its efforts 
substantially in that regard.
Finally, Liechtenstein expresses its ongoing support 
for the Council as a forum in which emerging human 
rights  problems  find  a  place  for  discussion.  Together 
with a number of other States, Liechtenstein has been 
pleased  to  initiate  a  broader  dialogue  on  the  human 
rights  implications  of  current  surveillance  practices, 
with a view to bringing them in line with internationally 
agreed  standards,  such  as  the  right  to  privacy,  as  set 
out in the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights.  We  look  forward  to  following  up  on  those 
discussions in the framework of the Council and in the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Umemoto (Japan): I would like to express my 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Remigiusz  Henczel,  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  for  introducing  the  Council’s 
report  (A/68/53)  today.  Since  its  establishment,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  played  an  important  role 
in promoting universal respect for the protection of all 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  The 
Council has also steadily and steadfastly accumulated 
achievements  as  it  responds  actively  to  human  rights 
violations and makes recommendations thereon. For its 
part, the Government of Japan has made great efforts 
to strengthen the work and functioning of the Council.
We  welcome  and  support  the  transparent  and 
strenuous  activities  of  the  various  commissions  of 
inquiry established by the Human Rights Council. We 
earnestly  hope  that  those  activities,  despite  various 
constraints,  will  lead  to  the  amelioration  of  global 
human rights situations by the international community. 
In  that  connection,  we  appreciate  the  progress  that 
has  been  made,  particularly  in  countries  that  have 
the  will  to  improve  their  human  rights  situation  with 
the  assistance  of  country-specific  resolutions  from 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  Examples  include  the 
Central  African  Republic,  Somalia,  Côte  d’Ivoire  and 
South  Sudan.  We  are  also  pleased  that  the  resolution 
entitled “Advisory services and technical assistance for 
Cambodia”,  submitted  by  Japan  in  cooperation  with 
Cambodia, was adopted by consensus. We support the 
Council in its efforts to continue to provide capacity-
building through such resolutions.
The  universal  periodic  review  (UPR)  is  a  truly 
innovative  mechanism  within  the  Council,  through 
which  we  can  effectively  improve  the  human  rights 
situation  in  all  Member  States  through  the  voluntary 
follow-up  actions  associated  with  the  review.  Japan 
will  actively  engage  in  the  efforts  to  make  the  UPR, 
including  the  follow-up,  more  effective.  On  the  other 
hand, the UPR alone is insufficient to address the serious 
human  rights  violations  that  occur  around  the  world. 
In  that  regard,  the  special  procedures  complement 
the  UPR  and  are  indispensable  mechanisms.  If  the 
special procedures are to achieve their mandate, their 
independence  and  unfettered  access  to  the  countries 
concerned are essential. We therefore call on all parties 
to  fully  cooperate  with  the  special  procedures.  For 
its  part,  Japan  has  issued  a  standing  invitation  to  the 
special  procedures  mechanisms  and  will,  as  always, 
fully cooperate with them.
In the field of human rights, it is essential to work 
with  civil  society.  Progress  in  that  regard  was  made 
with  the  Council’s  adoption  by  consensus  of  a  draft 
resolution on civil society space, submitted by Japan, 
Ireland,  Tunisia,  Chile  and  Sierra  Leone  this  past 
September.  Member  States  need  to  ensure  a  safe  and 
enabling  environment  where  individuals  from  civil 
society are able to enjoy universally recognized human 
rights and fundamental freedoms.
The resources of the Council, including its budget, 
are  stretched  thin,  owing  to  the  increased  number  of 
resolutions  and  special  procedures.  On  the  one  hand, 
we  must  ensure  that  the  Council  has  a  budget  for  the 
necessary mandates; on the other, we should consider 
how the work of the Council can move forward bearing 
in mind the need to prevent the duplication of mandates 
and enhance its overall effectiveness and efficiency.
To conclude, I would like to reiterate that Japan will 
continue to conduct its diplomacy guided by universal 
values such as human rights and democracy. Japan will 
also continue to fulfil its responsibility as a member of 
the Human Rights Council.
14/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
Mr. Reyes Rodríguez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): We 
welcome our colleague and friend Remigiusz Henczel, 
President of the Human Rights Council, and applaud his 
outstanding  professionalism,  permanent  commitment 
and leadership in carrying out the work of the Council. 
We also welcome our friend Eric Tistounet, who gave 
immeasurable  service  to  ensure  the  efficient  work  of 
the Council and the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights. 
The  Human  Rights  Council  was  born  from  the 
need  to  address  the  problems  of  double  standards, 
confrontation  and  the  political  manipulation  of  its 
predecessor body, the Human Rights Commission. We 
must prevent the repetition of such negative practices, 
which thoroughly discredited the old Commission. Cuba 
has been very clear in its rejection of the imposition of 
such practices.
Nonetheless,  we  are  concerned  by  the  tendency 
of  certain  members  to  impose  their  own  selectivity 
and  double  standards  on  the  Council  when  it  comes 
to questions of human rights, as can be clearly seen in 
many of the initiatives adopted by the Council during 
the  period  covered  by  the  current  report  (A/68/53). 
Cooperation and dialogue should guide the work of that 
body.
Given  that  reality,  the  universal  periodic  review 
has  become  the  only  universal  mechanism  free  of 
double  standards  for  the  comprehensive  analysis  of 
human rights in all countries. It constitutes the major 
achievement  of  the  Council  in  comparison  with  the 
old  Human  Rights  Commission.  The  mechanism  has 
proven itself as a means for international cooperation 
on  human  rights  based  on  constructive  dialogue  and 
respect  for  the  principles  of  universality,  objectivity, 
impartiality and non-selectivity.
For  Cuba,  as  long  as  an  unjust  and  exclusionary 
international  economic  and  political  order  persists, 
the  Council  must  continue  to  advocate  on  behalf  of  a 
democratic  and  equitable  international  order.  As  long 
as egotism and glaring inequality prevail in the world, 
we  will  have  to  continue  to  strive  for  international 
solidarity. As long as unilateral coercive measures and 
the kind of ironclad blockades under which Cuba has 
suffered for more than 50 years continue to be imposed, 
the Council must reject such practices and demand their 
end. And as long as hunger and malnutrition continue 
to  steal  the  happiness  and  compromise  the  future  of 
millions  of  people,  the  Council  will  have  to  continue 
fighting for the right to food.
The  special  procedures  in  the  Council  should  be 
guided by respect for the principles of objectivity and 
impartiality, and in general should respect the code of 
conduct  adopted  during  the  process  of  the  Council’s 
formation as an institution. We should repeat that the 
holders of the special procedures mandates owe those 
mandates to the body that created them, and must report 
to it. They are not press agents and should not be engaged 
in media activity or in mobilizing opinion, which lies 
outside  the  purview  of  their  mandate.  They  have  an 
important role to play in keeping the intergovernmental 
body  informed.  They  should  conduct  their  work  with 
a  view  to  enhancing  international  cooperation  on  the 
topics that form part of the Council’s priorities and on 
those  topics  with  regard  to  which  the  resolutions  that 
created those special procedures were adopted.
The same should apply to the human rights treaty 
bodies,  where,  fortunately,  more  solid  work  has  been 
done.  In  them  we  have  a  mechanism  and  a  focus  on 
cooperation  that  we  should  preserve  and  always  bear 
in mind, in order to ensure that we avoid irresponsible 
decisions 
the  climate  of 
cooperation  that  should  prevail  in  the  treaty  bodies 
when we are dealing with the current process of reform 
of those entities.
that  could  undermine 
The Council should ensure that the reaffirmation of 
the right to international solidarity becomes an urgent 
goal  and  not  a  chimera,  as  it  is  today,  with  the  aim 
of  tackling  the  serious  challenges  posed  by  the  deep 
economic,  financial,  energy,  environmental  and  food 
crisis affecting the world.
Cuba, which was a founding member of the Human 
Rights Council and has just been re-elected to a term 
beginning in January 2014, assumes its responsibilities 
by  reaffirming  its  unswerving  commitment  to  the 
promotion  of  and  respect  for  human  rights.  We  are 
grateful to all for the trust thus conferred on our country. 
We  will  continue  to  promote  the  rights  of  peoples  to 
self-determination,  peace  and  development  and  the 
right to food, and to seek to achieve the establishment 
of  a  democratic  and  equitable  international  order, 
fighting  against  racism,  xenophobia  and  all  forms 
of  discrimination,  as  well  as  for  cultural  rights  and 
respect for diversity. In short, we seek to ensure that the 
common  goal  of  a  world  that  makes  all  human  rights 
available to all is no longer a chimera.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Remigiusz 
13-56114
15/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
Henczel, President of the Human Rights Council (HRC), 
for introducing the report of the Council (A/68/53).
that  promotes 
The  Russian  Federation  considers  the  Council 
to  be  a  key  component  of  the  international  human 
rights  system 
the  development  of 
constructive  international  dialogue  on  matters  with 
a  human  dimension.  We  are  pleased  to  see  that,  after 
participating in the Council this year as an observer, the 
Russian Federation was re-elected by an overwhelming 
majority as a full member for the period 2014-2016. In 
many ways, that was a result of the fact that during the 
period  preceding  its  membership  in  the  Council,  the 
Russian Federation established itself as a reliable and 
responsible partner in the area of human rights.
We intend to participate actively in the work of the 
Council in the future, cooperating constructively with 
all  interested  States.  We  will  focus  on  the  continued 
expansion  of  the  range  of  international  obligations 
in  the  area  of  human  rights.  We  plan  to  continue  our 
constructive  cooperation  with 
the  HRC’s  special 
procedures and universal periodic review mechanism. 
As  far  as  thematic  priorities  are  concerned,  we 
intend, as before, to have the Council focus increased 
attention on issues related to combating racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and 
on the prevention of human trafficking, the promotion of 
issues relating to business and human rights, traditional 
values and the integrity of the judicial system.
We  have  been  compelled  to  conclude  that  the 
worrying  trends  that  have  become  apparent  in  the 
work  of  the  Council  in  recent  years  continue  to  gain 
momentum.  Unfortunately,  its  work  has  often  been 
characterized  by  the  polarization  of  the  interests  of 
various  groups  of  States.  We  still  encounter  attempts 
to  divide  States  into  the  bad  and  the  good,  seriously 
hindering the objective and dispassionate discussion of 
issues on today’s international human rights agenda.
We believe that such an approach is fundamentally 
antithetical  to  the  Council’s  original  purpose  as  a 
body  established  to  launch  and  develop  dialogue  and 
cooperation. The Council should work to the benefit of 
all United Nations Member States, without exception, 
not serve one group’s tactical interests. Ultimately, we 
must come to the realization that primary responsibility 
for  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  rests 
with  the  States  themselves,  while  the  main  task  of 
the  international  community  is  to  provide  them  with 
technical assistance on request.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  once  again  to 
draw  attention  to  such  underlying  principles  of  the 
Council  as  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity,  which  are  fully  established  in  the 
framework of the universal periodic review procedure. 
As  a  member  of  the  Council,  the  Russian  Federation 
will  continue  to  emphasize  the  significance  of  that 
unique  mechanism  of  the  Council.  We  firmly  believe 
that  the  same  principles  must  be  observed  within  the 
framework of the Council’s special procedures. In our 
view,  it  is  essential  that  the  special  procedures  must 
comply  clearly  and  strictly  with  the  United  Nations 
code of conduct adopted by Member States.
intends 
The  Russian  Federation 
to  cooperate 
constructively  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  on  all  issues 
on  its  agenda.  In  our  view,  the  main  focus  of  the 
Office’s  work  should  be  on  strengthening  dialogue 
and cooperation with all States concerned, in order to 
provide  them  with  the  assistance  required  to  ensure 
human rights and freedoms. Russia supports initiatives 
aimed  at  creating  greater  cooperation  between  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner, including on issues relating to planning, 
implementing and rationalizing Office programmes at 
the global, regional and country levels. We believe that 
the  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the  Office 
of  the  High  Commissioner  should  be  transparent  and 
allow for clear feedback.
Ms. Najwa (Maldives): At the outset, my delegation 
wishes to thank His Excellency Mr. Remigiusz Henczel, 
President of the Human Rights Council, for his presence 
here today and for his introduction of the report of the 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/68/53).  As  we 
reflect  on  an  eventful  and  challenging  year  for  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  sincere  appreciation  for  the  leadership 
taken by the Council on a number of issues of concern 
to the international community.
Let  me  also  express  our  profound  gratitude  to 
the  members  of  the  Assembly  for  the  wide  support 
displayed yesterday when it re-elected the Maldives to 
the Council for another term, beginning in January 2014 
(see A/68/PV.51). When the Maldives was elected to the 
Human Rights Council in 2010 as the smallest country 
to occupy a seat, we took on the challenges ahead with 
great  enthusiasm  and  a  strong  sense  of  commitment. 
Since  then,  we  have  continued  to  advocate  for  the 
protection  of  basic  human  rights  and  fundamental 
16/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
freedoms for all peoples in general, and specifically for 
the voiceless and marginalized.
Our  membership  in  the  Council  for  the  past 
three  years  has  been  a  catalyst  for  positive  change 
domestically  and  has  provided  the  right  impetus  for 
taking bold steps to protect and promote human rights 
in the country, including, inter alia, enacting important 
pieces of legislation, such as the Disabilities Act and the 
Domestic Violence Act, ratifying international human 
rights instruments such as all of the core conventions 
of  the  International  Labour  Organization  and  the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and 
acceding  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime.  We  firmly  believe 
that our continued tenure on the Council will give us 
an  opportunity  to  enhance  and  accelerate  efforts  to 
consolidate democracy and protect and promote human 
rights in our society.
However,  while  we  are  proud  of  the  progress  we 
have made, we recognize the challenges that lie ahead as 
we strive to achieve those objectives for the Maldivian 
people. First and foremost, we must further strengthen 
our human rights institutions and ensure that we have a 
functioning, responsible and independent judiciary that 
understands its role as a protector of the rule of law and 
human rights. We must endeavour to increase women’s 
participation in both the public and the private sectors. 
We must ensure greater protection for our children and 
provide  our  youth  with  education  and  opportunities 
to contribute to the progress of society. But above all, 
we must try to build resilience and cultivate the value 
of  the  respect  for  human  rights  within  our  society  in 
order to complement the formal and statutory measures 
already in place.
As  described  in  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, the year 2013 has been an eventful one, with 
the escalation of violence and the deterioration in the 
human rights situations in various corners of the world. 
Whether those violations of human rights are a result 
of  civil  war  in  Syria,  occupation  in  the  Palestinian 
and Arab territories or ethnic and communal tensions 
elsewhere, we call on all parties involved to cease all 
ongoing  violence  and  to  engage  in  dialogue  aimed  at 
reaching a lasting peace. We also encourage countries 
undergoing  transition  to  work  towards  substantive 
reforms, strengthen democratic institutions and ensure 
the protection of their people from all forms of abuse.
It is the work and the mandate of the Human Rights 
Council,  and  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole,  to  assist 
and facilitate positive outcomes in such situations. We 
are, therefore, encouraged by the ongoing efforts of the 
Council to provide technical assistance to countries in 
need, and we hope that it can built upon that assistance 
in the future. In that connection, we call upon all States 
in the process of transition and undergoing situations of 
unrest to work closely with international human rights 
bodies and with the international community, establish 
the  necessary 
independent 
judiciaries  and  credible  human  rights  mechanisms, 
and  ensure  the  creation  of  inclusive  and  democratic 
systems of governance. Inclusion and dialogue are the 
way forward.
institutions, 
including 
transition 
Since  undergoing  our  own 
to  a 
democratic  system  of  governance  five  years  ago,  the 
Maldives continues to be active in the area of human 
rights.  We  have  used  our  own  experience  to  firmly 
adhere to human rights principles, and based on those 
guiding  principles,  we  have  been  able  to  participate 
actively  at  the  international  level,  including  through 
the various initiatives that the Maldives has led in the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Based  on  our  experience,  we 
firmly  believe  in  the  need  for  more  engagement  with 
international  bodies,  including  the  Human  Rights 
Council. We recognize the need for small States such 
as the Maldives to be heard in the large arenas.
In that regard, in 2012, with the support of a cross-
regional  group  of  partners,  the  Maldives  took  a  lead 
role  in  establishing  the  Voluntary  Fund  for  Financial 
and  Technical  Assistance  aimed  at  supporting  the 
participation  of  the  least  developed  countries  and  the 
small island developing States at the Council. We are 
pleased to note that the Fund is finally in operation. 
The  universal  periodic  review  (UPR)  is  a  unique 
peer  review  mechanism 
that  directly  contributes 
to  the  efforts  of  States  to  promote  and  uphold  their 
human rights obligations. It also provides an objective, 
transparent  and  constructive  cooperative  framework 
for  States  to  exchange  views  and  interact  on  human 
rights issues.
that  established 
We  fully  support  and  reaffirm  the  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution 
the  universal 
periodic review mechanism. While adequate steps must 
be taken to encourage States to participate, the Maldives 
believes  that  there  must  be  appropriate  measures  to 
enable  the  Council  to  move  forward  with  the  review, 
even  if  States  decide  not  to  cooperate.  The  Maldives 
also  believes  that  engagement  in  the  UPR  process 
provides countries with an opportunity to improve their 
13-56114
17/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
human rights situations. But we should also ensure that 
technical and other advisory assistance is provided to 
countries to implement recommendations.
Today,  as  the  Maldives  celebrates  its  election 
to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  a  second  term,  we 
pledge our continued support to the cause of promoting 
and  protecting  human  rights,  and  we  wish  to  assure 
the  international  community  that  we  will  continue 
our  work  domestically  and  internationally  with  the 
same  enthusiasm  and  sense  of  commitment  that  we 
embraced  when  we  were  first  elected.  In  the  Council 
the Maldives will continue to forge strong partnerships 
with all relevant international stakeholders with a view 
to  attaining  an  effective  and  results-oriented  global 
human rights protection system in line with the five key 
principles  that  we  wholeheartedly  believe  in,  namely, 
first, that human rights are inviolable and universal and 
that the promotion and protection of human rights across 
the  globe  must  be  done  in  a  non-selective,  equitable 
and  non-politicized  manner;  secondly,  that  human 
rights remain central at the domestic and international 
levels;  thirdly,  that  dialogue  and  partnership  between 
countries  and  other  actors  is  of  utmost  importance; 
fourthly,  that  human  rights  must  be  realized  for  all 
peoples, regardless of nationality, religion or ethnicity; 
and  finally,  that  an  objective  assessment  to  improve 
human rights standards around the world in a balanced, 
fair and independent manner must be pursued.
In  the  days  ahead,  the  Maldives  would  like  to 
see an end to violence and a stronger focus on human 
rights in countries where violence and unrest prevails. 
We  would  like  to  see  emerging  democracies  build 
human  rights  resilience  and  work  towards  creating 
a  culture  of  respect  for  human  rights.  We  would  like 
to  see  the  global  community  put  more  emphasis  on 
and  effort  into  protecting  and  respecting  our  natural 
environment, achieving greater equality for women and 
strengthening  the  protection  of  the  rights  of  children 
and  the  disabled.  The  Maldives  calls  upon  all  States 
to fully engage and cooperate with the United Nations 
and human rights mechanisms. We stand ready to lend 
our  assistance  and  extend  our  continued  commitment 
to  improving  human  rights  protection,  both  at  home 
and abroad. We look forward to continuing our positive 
activism in the Human Rights Council, through which 
we  hope  to  contribute  to  creating  a  world  that  gives 
greater recognition to and respect for human rights.
Mr.  Seger 
(spoke 
in  French): 
Switzerland thanks the President of the Human Rights 
(Switzerland) 
Council for introducing the Council’s report (A/68/53) 
and,  more  generally,  for  the  efficient  and  positive 
manner  in  which  he  is  fulfilling  his  mandate.  We 
welcome the higher profile that human rights in general 
and  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  particular  have 
assumed within the United Nations system.
Switzerland  has  supported  the  Human  Rights 
Council from its very beginning. Similarly, five years 
later,  it  supported  the  establishment  of  the  review 
process.  It  is  extremely  important  to  ensure  that  that 
mechanism is able to continue to fulfil the objectives 
for  which  the  international  community  created  it, 
namely, to strengthen, promote and protect the human 
rights of all and to address specific situations of human 
rights  violations.  Most  of  the  recent  crises  were  first 
taken  up  by  the  Human  Rights  Council,  before  being 
considered by the Security Council. We can therefore 
say that the Human Rights Council is more relevant and 
central than ever to making the world a more peaceful 
place.
Switzerland  also  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the 
universal periodic review (UPR) process has taken deep 
root in the Human Rights Council. That mechanism is 
unique in its form as a peer review that ensures equal 
treatment  of  all  countries  when  it  comes  to  assessing 
their  practices  in  the  field  of  human  rights.  At  the 
same  time,  it  provides  the  international  community 
with  a  regular  review  of  the  human  rights  records  of 
all Member States of the United Nations. We can say 
that up to now the cooperation between States and the 
Human Rights Council in the universal period review 
process  has  generally  worked  well,  with  every  State 
taking its responsibilities seriously and ensuring its full 
participation in the review. 
However, if we want the UPR process to become a 
more  effective  and  credible  human  rights  mechanism 
in the long term, it must become deeply rooted at the 
national  level.  We  therefore  call  on  States  to  ensure 
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  made 
in  the  course  of  their  reviews  through  a  transparent, 
comprehensive  and  participatory 
implementation 
process and by informing the international community 
about  the  steps  they  have  taken  in  that  regard. 
Switzerland is convinced that only the commitment of 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  can  ensure 
the effectiveness of this promising process.
Switzerland  welcomes  the  increased  engagement 
of  States  and  civil  society  within  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  their  readiness  to  launch  new  initiatives 
18/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
and  to  establish  new  mechanisms.  One  of  the  direct 
outcomes  of  that  engagement,  as  stated  in  the  report, 
was the Human Rights Council’s adoption of more than 
100 resolutions in 2013, twice as many as six years ago. 
We  all  know  that  a  resolution  can  have  a  real 
impact only if it is properly implemented. That is why 
Switzerland believes it is now time for the Council to 
start focusing more on implementation processes, since 
one of the reasons for the creation of the Human Rights 
Council was to address the gap in implementing human 
rights on a global scale.
Many of the resolutions make it necessary to convene 
new  meetings  and  committees  of  experts  to  establish 
new  mandates.  At  the  same  time,  the  resources  that 
the  Secretary-General  requested  the  Fifth  Committee 
to  provide  for  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner 
to 
maintain the Council’s secretariat fall far short of the 
needs, which continue to grow. That disparity between 
demands  and  available  resources  has  already  resulted 
in a cutback in existing OHCHR field operations, the 
shelving of new ones and the abandonment of regional 
and international projects. 
for  Human  Rights 
(OHCHR) 
In that context, we regret that OHCHR’s proposal 
for  the  2014-2015  budget,  which  will  be  discussed 
at  the  Fifth  Committee  in  the  coming  days,  does  not 
reflect that pressing need for additional resources and, 
instead, proposes cuts. We consider that this situation 
considerably weakens the desire to make human rights 
a  reality  for  all.  We  believe  that  without  additional 
resources,  the  legacy  of  the  major  projects  that  have 
been undertaken and the commitments we have seen in 
the implementation of human rights may be undermined 
in the long term.
Therefore,  Switzerland  urges  States  to  mobilize 
within  the  Fifth  Committee  in  order  to  significantly 
strengthen  financing  from  the  regular  budget  for  the 
activities  of  the  Council.  The  shortfall  in  this  area  is 
significant,  even  though  human  rights  are  one  of  the 
three pillars of the work of the United Nations. However, 
less than 3 per cent of the Organization’s regular budget 
is allocated to human rights.
The  Human  Rights  Council,  along  with 
the 
monitoring  and  implementation  bodies,  including  the 
OHCHR,  contribute  to  making  Geneva  the  world’s 
capital for the protection of human rights. The Council’s 
President can count on the full commitment and support 
of Switzerland. My country will continue to strengthen 
the institutions located in Geneva and expresses its full 
cooperation with the Human Rights Council.
Sheikha  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the outset, I would like to express our appreciation to 
Mr. Henczel, President of the Human Rights Council, 
for  introducing  the  Council’s  comprehensive  report 
(A/68/53)  this  morning.  We  also  congratulate  the 
countries elected yesterday as members of the Council.
The  Human  Rights  Council  plays  an  important, 
pivotal  role  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human  rights  and  all  fundamental  freedoms  without 
discrimination  and  in  a  fair  and  equitable  manner. 
Given the tragic changes and political and intellectual 
transformation in the world today, which have deepened 
divisions  as  a  result  of  tensions  and  instability 
and  the  deterioration  of  human  rights  situations  in 
many  countries,  we  need,  more  than  ever  before, 
to  stress  the  importance  of  impartiality,  objectivity 
and  non-selectivity  in  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.
Undoubtedly,  more 
than  seven  years  since 
its  establishment,  the  Council  continues  to  work 
effectively  and  to  play  a  crucial  role  in  addressing 
human  rights  violations.  Its  role  as  a  major  pillar  in 
international  mechanisms  to  promote  human  rights 
has  increased.  As  we  start  the  second  round  of  the 
universal  periodic  review,  it  is  important  to  provide 
funding for the Councils’ activities so that it can avoid 
the shortcomings of the previous session.
Qatar,  thanks  to  its  wise  leadership,  has  attached 
primary importance to the promotion and protection of 
human  rights  in  line  with  our  Strategic  Vision  2030, 
which includes the promotion of a safe and stable society 
based on the principles of equality, justice and the rule 
of law and promoting human rights at the regional and 
international levels. 
Once again, we would like to stress that ever since 
we became a member of the Council in 2008, we have 
honoured  our  commitments  in  the  field  of  universal 
values  and  human  rights.  We  have  fully  cooperated 
with the Council in order to enhance and strenghten the 
promotion of human rights. We have adopted a policy 
that focuses on the promotion and protection of human 
rights. We have also hosted a centre of documentation 
on human rights for the Arab and Western Asia region, 
which  has  improved  our  performance  at  the  national, 
regional and international levels by helping us develop 
the institutional and legal framework to protect human 
13-56114
19/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
rights. We have adopted a comprehensive approach to 
dealing with human rights at the national level, in terms 
of education, health and gender equality, as well as the 
protection of migrant workers.
law  and 
There are many items on the agenda of the Human 
Rights Council, especially concerning the Arab world. 
Unfortunately,  the  human  rights  situation  in  our 
region, especially in the Palestinian territories, has not 
witnessed any improvement. Despite repeated calls for 
the Israeli authorities to promote the human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms  of  the  Palestinian  people,  its 
officials continue to allow illegal practices that violate 
international  humanitarian 
international 
law.  Those  include  the  oppressive  detention  and 
imprisonment of Palestinians, including children, and 
the demolition of homes. We are concerned about the 
suffocation  of  the  Palestinian  economy  and  the  fact 
that Palestinians are being deprived of water, in blatant 
violation  of  international  law,  especially  the  relevant 
Security  Council 
resolutions.  The  deteriorating 
humanitarian  situation  in  Gaza  and  Israeli  coercive 
measures  and  practices  increase  the  hardship  and 
suffering of Palestinian refugees. That should serve to 
remind the international community of the importance 
of our full support to the Palestinian people and the call 
for  righting  the  historic  injustice  to  which  they  have 
been subjected.
Independent 
We call on the Council to respond to the alarming 
situation  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  especially  the 
repeated  violations  of  human  rights,  war  crimes  and 
crimes  against  humanity.  The  report  of  the  Council-
mandated 
International  Commission 
of  Inquiry  on  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  —  which 
was  not  allowed  to  enter  the  country  to  discharge  its 
mandat  —  highlighted  the  increasing  human  rights 
violations in Syria. Such practices have made Syria a 
battleground of destruction and violence. That is why 
the international community should take all measures 
necessary  in  order  to  protect  the  human  rights  of  the 
Syrian people.
We  also  emphasize  that  we  will  continue  to 
cooperate  with  the  mechanisms  of  the  Council.  We 
hope the Council will achieve even more in the coming 
year.
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): We 
would like to thank the President of the Human Rights 
Council  for  his  presentation.  We  welcome  the  reports 
on  the  essential  work  performed  by  the  Council  in 
different  subject  areas  and  in  all  parts  of  the  world 
(A/68/53). Costa Rica reiterates its full commitment to, 
and support for, the work of the Human Rights Council 
as the central body of the United Nations on that matter. 
The  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  must  consider 
the entirety of its report, which reveals that despite the 
many  challenges  encountered,  the  Council  has  been 
able to live up to its mandate appropriately.
Particular  reference  should  be  made  to  the  work 
and  good  offices  of  the  President  to  preserve  the 
universality  of  the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR). 
We  urge  all  States  to  continue  to  participate  in  the 
second UPR cycle with the same enthusiasm that was 
apparent  during  the  first  cycle,  and  to  commit  at  the 
highest  level  to  implement  its  recommendations.  It  is 
also  essential  to  formulate  increasingly  precise  and 
concrete  recommendations,  and  seek  cooperation 
mechanisms to build the necessary national capacities 
for implementation.
As a responsible member of the Council, Costa Rica 
has remained active and committed to its work, building 
purposeful alliances with countries in different regions, 
promoting major initiatives and encouraging dialogue 
in negotiations. Over the past year, we have championed 
major resolutions in the Council, on which we reached 
consensus, such as those relating to the promotion and 
protection  of  human  rights  in  the  context  of  peaceful 
demonstrations,  on  which  we  worked  together  with 
Switzerland and Turkey, and on conscientious objection 
to military service, where we were a major sponsor with 
Croatia and Poland. The latter was the first resolution 
of a substantive nature to be adopted by the Council on 
that subject.
Costa Rica also continues its traditional collective 
work in human rights education and training, with the 
resolution  on  the  World  Programme  on  the  subject, 
whose third phase will focus on journalists and other 
media workers. In that connection, we had the honour 
to  work  with  Italy,  Morocco,  Slovenia,  Senegal, 
Switzerland and the Philippines, as well as the nearly 
80 other sponsors of the resolution.
In  addition,  along  with  Ecuador  and  Peru,  we 
worked  on  a  robust  but  inclusive  draft  resolution  on 
the impact of arms transfers on human rights in armed 
conflict.  We  also  promoted  a  round  table  on  capital 
punishment,  together  with  Benin,  France,  Mongolia 
and the Republic of Moldova. We continue to promote 
the development of the themes of human rights and the 
environment, working with countries such as Maldives 
and Switzerland.
20/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
We  believe  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  is 
the  appropriate  forum  for  undertaking  high-quality 
discussions  on  issues  over  which  we  might  have 
diverging  views,  but  where  we  can  find  points  of 
agreement  to  bolster  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights.
For  Costa  Rica  it  is  very  important  to  guarantee 
coherence between our foreign policy on human rights 
and our domestic policy on the subject. For that reason, 
we  continue  our  efforts  to  improve  the  human  rights 
situation of all our inhabitants, while maintaining the 
high standards that we are known for historically. We 
invest greatly in social development. Our office of the 
people’s advocate, a national independent human rights 
body,  has  a  constitutional  jurisdiction  for  providing 
effective remedies and simple and direct access, such as 
recourse to refuge, to protect all human rights. Among 
our most recent achievements on this front, we would 
list the following.
First,  we  have  implemented  a  comprehensive 
national programme on emotional health and sexuality. 
Secondly,  there  is  new  legislation  against  trafficking 
in persons, which provides new tools for action by the 
authorities and establishes major penalties against labour 
exploitation,  sex  tourism  and  trafficking  in  organs, 
tissues  and  body  fluids.  Thirdly,  we  have  established 
a  round  table  for  dialogue  among  representatives 
of 
senior  Government 
representatives. Fourthly, a decree has been issued that 
recognizes  seven  native  languages    of  the  indigenous 
peoples  of  Costa  Rica  and  establishes  the  right  of 
indigenous students to have the local culture and their 
worldview incorporated into educational curriculums. 
Lastly, our parliament has approved the Third Optional 
Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, 
regarding a communications procedure.
indigenous  peoples  and 
Our  country’s  work 
is  guided  by  principles 
and  seeks  to  promote  and  protect  all  human  rights, 
whether  civil,  cultural,  economic,  political  or  social, 
in all circumstances and in every place. We encourage 
dialogue  and  cross-regional  alliances,  and  we  build 
bridges to contribute to the effective implementation of 
Council decisions and resolutions.
As  Chair  of  the  Council’s  Working  Group  on  the 
Right  to  Peace,  we  have  made  progress  on  a  strategy 
that is transparent, inclusive, consensual and objective 
that  seeks  consensus  on  this  important  and  still 
controversial  subject.  We  maintain  an  open  invitation 
to all United Nations special procedures. In that regard, 
we were pleased to receive the visit, in the middle of 
this  year,  of  Mr.  John  Knox,  Independent  Expert  on 
the  issue  of  human  rights  obligations  relating  to  the 
enjoyment  of  a  safe,  clean,  healthy  and  sustainable 
environment. We look forward to his report.
We  will  continue  to  carry  out  the  functions 
entrusted to us by the members of the Council, guided 
by universality, impartiality, objectivity, non-selectivity 
and  non-politicization,  in  constructive  international 
dialogue in a spirit cooperation.
In  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  we  respectfully  ask 
for support for our desire to be re-elected for the period 
2014-2017.
Mr.  Och  (Mongolia):  Let  me  first  that  this 
opportunity to thank Ambassador Henczel, President of 
the Human Rights Council, for introducing the annual 
report of the Council (A/68/53). 
international  cooperation 
The importance of the matters before the Council 
for  decision  stimulates  all  Member  States  to  try  to 
develop  greater 
the 
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms 
across  the  world.  The  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights is one of the main pillars of the foreign 
policy  of  Mongolia.  Mongolia’s  principled  position 
was affirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his 
address to the high-level segment of the twenty-second 
session of the Human Rights Council.
in 
The Government of Mongolia is undertaking legal 
reforms to harmonize its national laws with international 
norms  and  standards.  That  inclusive  process,  with 
the  active  participation  of  civil  society,  includes  the 
establishment  of  adequate  national  mechanisms,  the 
adoption  of  relevant  national  programmes  and  the 
improvement of institutional capacity.
As  a  country  that  adopted  a  nationally  specific 
ninth Millennium Development Goal, on strengthening 
human  rights  and  fostering  democratic  governance, 
Mongolia recognizes the centrality of human rights in 
development  planning  and  acknowledges  that  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  democracy  are  interlinked 
and mutually reinforcing. We are thankful to the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights for the support that it has extended to Mongolia 
during its presidency of the Community of Democracies 
from  2011  to2013.  We  welcomed  the  message  from 
Ms.  Navanethem  Pillay  and  the  participation  by  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  freedom  of  peaceful  assembly 
and association in the seventh Ministerial Conference 
13-56114
21/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
of the Community of Democracies. My delegation also 
expresses  its  appreciation  to  fellow  Member  States 
for their support of resolution 67/18, on education for 
democracy, which was presented by Mongolia.
Mongolia  has  submitted  its  candidature  to  the 
Human Rights Council for the term of 2016-2018 for the 
first time. Mongolia is guided by the aspiration to make 
a meaningful contribution to the promotion of human 
rights  and  freedoms  at  the  regional  and  international 
levels.  We  are  willing  to  share  our  experience  with 
others. By ratifying and implementing over 30 human 
rights  instruments,  including  seven  core  conventions, 
Mongolia  demonstrated  its  strong  commitment  to  the 
strengthening of the international human rights system. 
Last  year  Mongolia  ratified  the  Second  Optional 
Protocol  to  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political Rights, which seeks the abolition of the death 
penalty.
Accordingly,  our  domestic  legislation  will  be 
amended to permanently eliminate capital punishment. 
Mongolia  became  a  sponsor  of  resolution  62/149, 
entitled “Moratorium on the use of the death penalty”, 
and joined the initiative launched in the Human Rights 
Council to organize the high-level panel discussion on 
the  question  of  the  death  penalty  during  the  twenty-
fifth  session  of  the  Council.  Mongolia  signed  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All 
Persons  from  Enforced  Disappearances  and  recently 
signed the Optional Protocol to the Convention against 
Torture and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child on a communications procedure.
Our  Government  consistently  supports  the  work 
of  special  mandate  holders,  welcomes  the  expansion 
of  the  mandates  and  is  ready  to  cooperate  and  assist 
Special  Rapporteurs  by  ensuring  the  completion  of 
their  independent  mandates  and  providing  them  with 
follow-up  information.  The  latest  visit  of  the  Special 
Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights was 
extremely important and useful, and we expect a visit 
by  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights defenders.
Mongolia  recognizes  the  unique  role  played  by 
the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR)  mechanism  in 
providing the means to submit a comprehensive report 
on  the  human  rights  situations  in  all  Member  States. 
We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Council  to  improve 
the  working  methods  of  the  Working  Group  on  the 
universal periodic review. The Government adopted a 
plan of action to implement the UPR recommendations 
and  collaborates  with  other  stakeholders 
the 
implementation  process,  including  consultations  with 
the National Human Rights Commission, civil society 
and the United Nations Development Programme.
in 
The  principles  of  non-selectivity,  practicality, 
timeliness and effectiveness with regard to the human 
rights issues and situations of human rights violations 
are of crucial importance. We welcome open dialogue on 
ensuring transparency, independence and inclusiveness 
in the work of the Council, as well as on strengthening 
treaty bodies.
process 
intergovernmental 
Significant progress was made under the ongoing 
open-ended 
towards 
identifying concrete and sustainable measures needed 
to strengthen and enhance the effective functioning of 
the human rights treaty bodies system. My delegation 
supports  the  extension  of  the  process  and  welcomes 
initiatives on the improvement of the working methods 
of the system and the effective participation of Member 
States in the treaty implementation reporting process. 
My  delegation  is  prepared  to  take  active  part  in  the 
discussions on the ways forward recommended by the 
co-facilitators of the process.
to  promote  advisory  services, 
We  welcome  the  mandate  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council 
technical 
assistance and capacity-building in the implementation 
of  human  rights  instruments.  We  note  the  need  of 
small  countries  for  greater 
institutional  capacity 
and  improved  professional  skills  to  participate  in  the 
process  of  improving  the  Council  and  strengthening 
treaty bodies.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
Government’s  commitment  to  continued  cooperation 
and readiness for enhanced dialogue with the Council. 
Mongolia  aspires 
to  become  a  responsible  and 
committed  actor  in  the  activities  of  the  Council.  We 
maintain  our  standing  invitation  to  all  international 
human rights mechanisms.
that 
international  cooperation 
in  the  field  of  human  rights  is  essential  for  the  full 
achievement of the purposes of the United Nations as 
declared  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme 
of  Action.  Mongolia  supports  positioning  the  Council 
as  a  platform  for  enhanced  and  open  discussion  and 
better international cooperation on the various complex 
issues  with  positive  implications  for  national  policies 
on human rights.
We  emphasize 
22/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  warmly 
welcomes  Ambassador  Henczel,  President  of 
the 
Human  Rights  Council,  to  the  General  Assembly  to 
introduce the report of the Council (A/68/53). 
Malaysia, 
the 
together  with 
international 
community,  places  high  expectations  on  the  work  of 
the Council. Malaysia believes in a non-confrontational 
approach to the issue of human rights, pushing instead 
for constructive dialogue and cooperation. The current 
international  trend  of  politicizing  human  rights  by 
some has not served the cause of human rights. Some 
countries  continue  to  emphasize  political  and  civil 
rights to the virtual exclusion of economic, social and 
cultural  rights.  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  civil  and 
political  rights  cannot  be  separated  from  economic, 
social and cultural rights, as they are two sides of the 
same coin.
Allow me to touch on a few matters relating to the 
Council. First, the universal periodic review (UPR) is 
a primary human rights mechanism, premised upon the 
equal  treatment  of  all  countries.  Malaysia  is  pleased 
to  report  that  the  country  successfully  underwent  its 
second  UPR  round  in  October  2013.  A  total  of  104 
Member States participated in the interactive dialogue 
on  Malaysia’s  UPR.  As  a  result,  Malaysia  received 
a  total  of  232  recommendations  on  how  to  further 
promote and improve the human rights situation in the 
country. Recommendations addressed to Malaysia will 
be  thoroughly  studied  and  considered  by  the  relevant 
ministries  and  agencies.  Malaysia  will  announce  its 
decisions  on  the  recommendations  received  when  its 
final  report  is  presented  for  adoption  by  the  Human 
Rights  Council  at  its  twenty-fifth  session  in  March 
2014.
Malaysia  took  full  advantage  of  the  opportunity 
afforded by the UPR to update Member States on the 
positive developments pertaining to the measures that 
have  been  undertaken  by  the  Government  to  improve 
and  enhance  human  rights  in  the  country.  During  its 
UPR,  Malaysia  did  not  attempt  to  hide  any  domestic 
shortcomings and openly admitted the challenges faced 
by the Government in its efforts to further promote and 
protect human rights.
To  ensure  the  full  participation  of  all  countries 
to  the  UPR  process,  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  the 
Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance, 
established  by  the  Council  in  its  resolution  6/17, 
should  be  strengthened  and  put  to  work  in  order  to 
provide a source of financial and technical assistance 
to help countries. That will in particular benefit least 
developed  countries  and  help  them  implement  the 
recommendations emanating from their reviews.
Secondly,  while  there  has  been  some  progress  in 
addressing  the  eradication  of  poverty  brought  about 
by  widening  inequality,  high  and  volatile  food  and 
fuel  prices  and  menacing  environmental  risks,  such 
progress  continues  to  be  held  hostage  to  the  impact 
of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis.  Malaysia 
is  of  the  view  that  despite  the  bleak  world  economic 
situation,  developed  countries  should,  to  the  best 
of  their  ability,  fulfil  their  pledges  made  in  terms  of 
official  development  assistance.  Even  without  the 
current  economic  crisis,  developing  countries  have 
struggled to ensure that the economic and social rights 
of their peoples were upheld. Thus, they, including the 
poorest and most vulnerable sectors of society, are now 
even worse off with the knock-on effects of the crisis.
Thirdly, Malaysia welcomes the Council’s continued 
attention to the human rights situation of the Palestinian 
people  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  We  must 
never forget that the core issue for the Palestinians is 
their inalienable right to statehood. Malaysia calls for 
the realization of the right of the Palestinians to self-
determination  through  a  final  solution  to  the  conflict 
that would ensure the creation of two States living side 
by  side  in  peace  and  security  and  based  on  the  1967 
borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  for  the 
Palestinian  State.  We  urge  the  Council  to  continue  to 
press  on  the  issue  and  to  ensure  that  Palestinians  are 
afforded their basic rights as human beings, including 
their right to an independent State.
Fourthly,  on  the  process  of  strengthening  and 
enhancing the effective functioning of the human rights 
treaty  bodies  system,  in  view  of  the  complexity  of 
human rights issues, Malaysia believes that the intricate 
responsibility  to  promote  and  protect  human  rights 
necessitates  deeper  cooperation  among  stakeholders. 
While human rights treaty bodies are in place to keep 
a  check  and  balance  over  States  parties’  compliance 
and efforts to improve related human rights situations, 
it  is  apparent  that  there  are  still  significant  issues  to 
be  addressed  to  assist  those  bodies  to  fulfil  their 
objectives.  Malaysia  remains  committed  to  continue 
supporting  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  the  human 
rights treaty bodies.
In conclusion, we hope that the Council will carry 
on  its  good  work  in  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights for all. It should not yield to the agendas of certain 
13-56114
23/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
quarters. The many achievements to date, including the 
successful implementation of the UPR mechanism, have 
served to put the Council in good stead, especially in its 
mandate to ensure greater promotion and protection of 
human rights for all. However, Malaysia believes that 
more  can  always  be  done  to  enhance  and  uphold  the 
rights of victims of human rights violations. Malaysia 
is committed to that end and will continue to strongly 
support the work of the Council.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  We  would  like  to  begin  by  welcoming  the 
President of the Human Rights Council, Mr. Henczel, 
to  New  York.  We  wish  him  every  success  in  the 
important tasks entrusted to him. He can count on our 
constructive  cooperation  to  ensure  that  human  rights 
are dealt with on an equal footing and in a fair manner, 
without  the  politicization,  oppression  and  double 
standards  that  have  eroded  our  achievements  in  New 
York and Geneva.
We  have  read  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  report 
(A/68/53)  very  closely  and  with  great  interest.  The 
report touches on a series of matters that are extremely 
important,  particularly  with  regard  to  violations  of 
human rights in the occupied Arab territories, including 
the occupied Syrian Golan and the occupied Palestinian 
territories.  Forty-five  years  have  passed  since  the 
unjust Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan. In spite 
of the Council’s call on Israel, the occupying Power, to 
implement the resolutions of all United Nations bodies 
and agencies — including, of course, the Commission 
on  Human  Rights,  which  became  the  Human  Rights 
Council — Israel continues to defy the will of Member 
States. Israel refuses to adhere to the hundreds of such 
resolutions. The Israeli authorities have perpetrated war 
crimes and crimes against humanity, and they expressly 
claim those crimes with no sense of accountability or 
punishment.  They  do  so  despite  numerous  questions 
from international public officials and certain capitals 
regarding  the  Israeli  exception:  the  reasons  for  Israel 
not being subject to prosecution and not being brought 
to justice.
We  are  concerned  by  the  attempts  by  some  to 
turn  the  Human  Rights  Council  into  a  private  entity 
that  serves  political  agendas  that  are  very  narrow  in 
nature — serving the agendas of influential States — in 
contradiction to the spirit prevailing at the establishment 
of  the  Council  and  its  mandate.  That  was  made  clear 
in the adoption of resolutions with political objectives 
and  dimensions  in  which  the  Council  condemns  the 
violations of human rights in some developing countries 
but  fails  to  do  so  in  other  countries.  The  Council 
disregards the mechanisms responsible for monitoring 
human rights situations and their violations in developed 
States. Racism reigns in those influential countries, as 
well xenophobia, racial discrimination, discrimination 
against indigenous peoples and discrimination against 
immigrants, as well as cruel and inhumane treatment of 
detainees and refugees in countries that have militarily 
invaded  other  sovereign  countries.  Those  countries 
have  violated  the  right  to  development  by  imposing 
restrictive  unilateral  economic  measures  against  the 
populations  of  developing  countries,  in  addition  to 
expressly sponsoring terrorism.
The resolutions on Syria mentioned in the Human 
Rights Council report are based on media information 
from  a  single  source.  The  resolutions  are  in  harmony 
with the political trends in certain States, which only 
want  ill  for  Syria  and  its  Government  and  its  people. 
None  of  those  resolutions  have  called  for  ending  the 
terrorism carried out by armed terrorist groups, nor do 
they call for them to be disarmed. Those resolutions do 
not call on the countries that finance and support them 
to end their military, political and media support. Their 
support  is  through  the  Sanctions  Committee  of  the 
Security Council — and the Security Council records 
mention those States by name and show all the weapons 
going into Syria and what borders the weapons crossed. 
In addition, the sponsors of the resolutions, who claim 
to  defend  human  rights  in  Syria,  do  not  talk  about 
the  deterioration  of  the  economic  and  humanitarian 
situation  in  Syria,  which  is  a  result  of  the  restrictive 
unilateral  economic  measures  imposed  by  the  States 
of the European Union, the League of Arab States and 
the  United  States.  Those  measures  are  a  threat  to  the 
sovereignty and independence of States and a flagrant 
violation of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
principles of human rights. 
Every year the General Assembly adopts resolutions 
against  unjust,  restrictive  and  arbitrary  unilateral 
economic measures. Despite that, some Member States 
of  the  Organization  insist  on  the  imposition  of  such 
unilateral sanctions, which are considered punishment. 
That continues in spite of the report of the Independent 
Commission of Inquiry, a subsidiary body of the Human 
Rights  Council.  The  report  lists  the  effects  of  those 
economic measures on the welfare of the Syrian people, 
and  says  there  are  various  armed  terrorist  groups 
committing acts of violence and terrorism against the 
Syrian people. It is therefore clear today that there are 
24/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
capitals that boast about rejecting a peaceful solution to 
the situation in Syria, and those States admit explicitly 
to arming terrorist groups. They are working to directly 
train those groups in States that are neighbours of Syria.
My country is suffering from a humanitarian crisis 
whose causes are now well known. Terrorism has struck 
my country through systematic violations organized by 
terrorist groups that are armed, financed and supported 
from  outside.  Outside  support  for  armed  groups,  and 
their key role in the Syrian crisis, has thus been proved: 
it is clear and no longer requires discussion. 
The  Syrian  Government  has  proposed  every 
possible type of cooperation in order to reach a solution 
to  the  Syrian  crisis  on  the  political  and  humanitarian 
fronts.  We  regret,  however,  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council  makes  no  positive  mention  of  the  enormous 
efforts of the Syrian Government. Nor does the report 
mention the presence of armed terrorist groups in Syria. 
The Council does not take into consideration the Syrian 
Government’s  obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and international humanitarian law to 
oppose such groups and all those who support them. On 
the contrary, we see intense efforts on the part of some 
States members of the Council — directly responsible 
for the deterioration of the political and humanitarian 
situation  and  for  bloodshed  —  to  repeatedly  adopt 
unilateral  political  resolutions  on  Syria  aimed  at 
pushing the Government to give up its sovereign rights.
We  have  not  seen  the  Human  Rights  Council 
condemn or reject the two-year boycott of its work by 
the  occupying  Power  of  Israel.  We  therefore  wonder 
if  Council  members’  reaction  would  be  so  lukewarm 
if  other  States  besides  Israel  boycotted  it.  Can  the 
Council tell us about the measures it has taken to hold 
Israel responsible for its refusal to cooperate with the 
dozens of resolutions and the fact-finding commissions 
of  inquiry  on  the  numerous  crimes  it  has  perpetrated 
over the decades in the occupied Arab territories? Has 
it  made  even  modest  efforts  to  implement  resolutions 
on  human  rights  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan?  No, 
that  has  not  happened.  Apparently,  the  Council  does 
not  consider  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the  Golan 
a  priority.  Why?  Because  that  tragic  and  dangerous 
situation involves Israel, the occupying Power.
The  politicized  resolutions  of  the  Council  have 
harmed,  and  will  harm,  the  efforts  that  went  into  its 
creation and establishment as a body capable of dealing 
with all violations of human rights at the international 
level  with  clear  criteria  applicable  to  all  and  without 
discrimination.  That  was  the  reason  we  arrived  at 
the  principle  of  the  universal  periodic  review  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Those  resolutions  will  be  an 
obstacle to the objective role that some have taken on 
at  the  international  level  in  order  to  settle  the  Syrian 
crisis.  Indeed,  they  will  encourage  greater  rigidity 
over holding a “Geneva II” conference and the ongoing 
armed violence, killing and bloodshed. They block the 
signs of cooperation and overtures from Syria, which 
was  made  very  clear  recently  with  the  International 
Commission.
I would also like to speak about what has been said by 
the representatives of Qatar and Kuwait. Qatar’s flagrant 
interference in Syria’s internal affairs is a fact that has 
been condemned by Member States. That interference 
in our domestic affairs has been manifested in financial 
and  media  support  for  terrorism,  and  by  training 
terrorists and recruiting them from every region of the 
globe.  They  have  been  transported  en  masse  through 
Turkey and Jordan in order to carry out terrorist acts in 
Syria that have resulted in tens of thousands of victims 
and destroyed 50 per cent of Syria’s infrastructure. The 
representative of Qatar described the situation in Syria 
as dangerous and terrifying, but she does not know that 
the Qatari authorities are responsible for that terrifying 
situation, which has harmed thousands of Syrians. The 
Qatari  authorities  condemned  a  Qatari  poet  to  a  life 
sentence for writing a poem criticizing the former Emir. 
After the new Emir was installed, the poet’s sentence 
was commuted from life imprisonment to 15 years. We 
are talking here about the human rights situation in the 
State of Qatar.
Concerning Kuwait, I will read a single paragraph 
published today in The New York Times, from an article 
on the Gulf States’ financing of Kuwaiti Salafists and 
jihadists in Syria. The article quotes a Kuwaiti Salafist 
who  collects  funds  for  aiding  terrorists  in  Syria.  His 
name is Al-Mteiri. 
(spoke in English)
“‘Once  upon  a  time  we  cooperated  with  the 
Americans  in  Iraq,’  said  Mr.  Al-Mteiri,  a  former 
soldier in the Kuwaiti Army, recalling the American 
role in pushing Iraq out of Kuwait in 1991.”
Then Al-Mteiri says, “Now we want to get Bashar out 
of  Syria,  so  why  not  cooperate  with  Al-Qaida?”  He 
acknowledges that he is cooperating with Al-Qaida.
By  the  way,  Al-Qaida  is  listed  on  the  Security 
Council  list  of  entities  and  individuals  sponsoring 
13-56114
25/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
terrorism.  The  article  also  says  that  hundreds  of 
millions of dollars have been shipped just by this guy in 
Kuwait to Salafist and Takfiri groups in Syria. I think 
that is the best reply to my colleague from Kuwait.
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk  (Ukraine):  Ukraine  is  strongly 
committed  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and  pays  special  attention  to  United  Nations 
activities in that area, in particular within the framework 
of the Human Rights Council. We positively assess the 
work of the Human Rights Council during the reporting 
period  reflected  in  the  Council  report  (A/68/53)  that 
covers  its  twenty-second,  twenty-third  and  twenty-
fourth regular sessions.
With its systemic thematic approaches and urgent 
responses  to  pressing  human  rights  situations,  the 
Council  has  demonstrated  its  ability  to  act  as  a  key 
United  Nations  body  responsible  for  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights worldwide. The report 
provides  clear  evidence  of  the  Council’s  competence 
and  credibility  in  addressing  urgent  country-specific 
situations.  At  the  same  time,  Ukraine  believes  that 
genuine  and  effective  prevention 
is  a  pragmatic 
alternative to averting human rights violations.
Seeking to strengthen the international community’s 
ability  to  effectively  prevent  human  rights  violations, 
Ukraine  consistently  proceeds  with  the  realization  of 
its initiative — the Human Rights Council resolution on 
the role of prevention in the promotion and protection 
of  human  rights,  which  is  traditionally  adopted  by 
consensus.
We consider the special procedures of the Council 
and the universal periodic review (UPR) mechanism as 
extremely important tools for the protection of human 
rights, which can improve the situation of human rights 
globally. Ukraine has issued a standing invitation to all 
thematic special procedures and received a number of 
visits upon their request. We would like to encourage 
countries 
the  special 
procedures of the Council, in particular by honouring 
the  standing  invitations  issued.  We  are  also  strongly 
committed to the universal periodic review mechanism. 
Ukraine  presented  its  national  report  for  the  second 
cycle of the review to the Working Group on the UPR 
in  a  timely  manner  and  was  successfully  reviewed  in 
October  2012,  with  the  further  adoption  of  the  UPR 
outcome by the twenty-second session of the Council.
to  closely  cooperate  with 
We commend the closer Council cooperation with 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  more  coordinated  actions,  and  the 
improvement  of  institutional  relations  between  the 
Office and the Council.
With regard to supporting the further mainstreaming 
of human rights issues into a broad range of activities 
and  further  strengthening  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
human  rights  within  the  United  Nations  system,  my 
delegation emphasizes the need to avoid duplication in 
the work of the Human Rights Council and the Third 
Committee.
Ukraine  is  committed  to  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  worldwide.  In  that  regard, 
we have presented our candidature for membership in 
the Human Rights Council for the period 2018 to 2020. 
My country remains determined to engage in the work 
of the Council in a constructive manner. As a member 
of  the  Council,  Ukraine  would  exert  every  effort  to 
ensure that the Council fulfilled its mandate in the most 
effective and comprehensive manner.
Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
my delegation associates itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Gabon on behalf of the African 
Group. 
We would like to take this opportunity to extend our 
thanks  to  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Council  (A/68/53) 
and  for  his  complementary  briefing  to  the  Assembly. 
We wish him every success in carrying out his tasks. 
By the same token, we would like to congratulate the 
recently elected new members of the Council. We hope 
that their terms of office will provide further impetus 
to the work of the Council and its mechanisms. 
The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
seven  years  ago,  was  an 
important  achievement 
for  the  General  Assembly  and  its  various  bodies  in 
addressing  human  rights  issues  on  the  basis  of  the 
equality  of  all  Member  States,  and  as  reflected  in 
the  universal  periodic  review,  to  which  all  Members 
without  exception  are  subject.  The  Council  also 
provides advice, in accordance with its mandate set out 
in  resolution  60/251,  through  the  special  procedures 
system.  That  is  an  important  service,  provided  that 
mandate holders adhere to the principles of impartiality 
and non-politicization and avoid selectivity, in line with 
the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  mandates  and  the  Code  of 
Conduct  for  Special  Procedures  Mandate-Holders  of 
the Human Rights Council, adopted by the Council in 
26/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
its  resolution  5/2  and  re-emphasized  in  its  resolution 
11/11, of June 2009.
My delegation would like to underscore the Sudan’s 
continued cooperation with the Human Rights Council 
with a view to promoting and fostering human rights in 
my country. In that connection, we would like to point 
out that the Sudan submitted its report to the universal 
periodic  review,  accepted  its  recommendations  and 
established a national commission to implement them. 
It is now ready to participate in the second review cycle 
in the same spirit in which we have been cooperating 
with the Independent Expert on the situation of human 
rights in the Sudan. 
As 
a  demonstration  of  my  Government’s 
commitment  to  comprehensively  promoting  human 
rights,  the  Sudan  has  prepared  its  tenth  national  plan 
of  action  to  promote  and  strengthen  human  rights, 
which  is  a  broad  framework  aimed  at  achieving  that 
important  goal.  It  integrates  a  wide-ranging  vision  of 
all  the  relevant  aspects  in  that  important  field.  That 
accomplishment is in addition to numerous endeavours 
undertaken by my Government to help all of its citizens 
enjoy their rights without discrimination. 
With regard to promoting the rights of the child, we 
have,  among  other  things,  acceded  to  the  Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  and  its  two  Optional 
Protocols — on the involvement of children in armed 
conflict and on the sale of children, child prostitution 
and  child  pornography.  The  Sudan  has  ratified 
Conventions No. 182 and No. 138 of the International 
Labour  Organization  and  has  used  provisions  of 
those  international  instruments  to  draw  up  national 
legislation,  including  the  2010  law  on  the  protection 
of children. We have also established a comprehensive 
supplementary law to protect minors, which has been in 
effect for two years. In addition, the laws related to the 
armed forces, the security sector and the police contain 
provisions that categorically prevent the conscription or 
recruitment of children in their ranks.
To  protect  and  defend  the  rights  of  people  with 
disabilities, we have signed and ratified the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Based on its 
provisions, in 2009 we enacted a national disability act 
and have established a national council for the disabled.
With  regard  to  protecting  the  rights  of  women, 
my country has put in place a comprehensive 25-year 
strategy  for  the  advancement  of  women.  We  are  also 
cooperating in the field with the Office of the Special 
Envoy  for  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan.  Furthermore, 
the  Government  has  established  an  office  to  protect 
women and children from violence. We also established 
economic  projects  for  women,  particularly  in  rural 
areas.
As for the elderly, my Government has established 
centres to take care of them. In addition to strengthening 
the family relations ingrained in our society, the elderly 
are  given  preference  when  receiving  care  and  we 
cherish and honour them.
With regard to institutional frameworks, the Sudan’s 
advisory council on human rights plays a pivotal role 
in  following  up  on  international  commitments  and 
national obligations and plans related to human rights. 
We would also like to state that the independent human 
rights  commission  established  in  accordance  with  the 
Paris Principles has been successfully functioning for 
two years. That is in addition to other mechanisms that 
we do not have time to discuss at this meeting.
At  the  bilateral  level,  my  Government  has  signed 
agreements  to  secure  its  borders  with  neighbouring 
States  in  order  to  prevent  human  rights  abuses, 
particularly breaches related to human trafficking and 
other relevant violations. Accordingly, my Government 
has  signed  bilateral  treaties  with  neighbouring  Chad, 
Libya, the Central African Republic and South Sudan. 
In that connection, I would like to state that the Sudan 
recently adopted a national law that prevents trafficking 
in humans and in human organs.
At  the  national  level  in  general,  my  country  has 
contributed  to  the  stability  of  the  situation  in  Darfur, 
Blue  Nile  and  Southern  Kordofan,  and  violence 
has  significantly  decreased.  That  paves  the  way  for 
fostering human rights in those areas.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  calls  for  sufficient 
funds to be made available to enable the Council and 
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights to thoroughly fulfil their responsibilities 
and obligations and to promote internationally agreed 
human rights with a view to treating all human rights 
equally,  without  favouring  some  at  the  expense  of 
others,  and  without  involving  new  concepts  that  have 
not  been  internationally  agreed  to,  Member  State 
must be adequately consulted with regard to any new 
mechanism  or  programme  to  be  undertaken  by  the 
Council or the High Commissioner.
We  also  call  for  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
approach to fostering and protecting human rights that 
13-56114
27/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
considers exempting developing countries from punitive 
measures  for  violations  and  lifting  the  sanctions  on 
some  of  them  and  removing  restrictions  on  their 
exports  —  an  approach  that  takes  into  consideration 
climate change and the major reasons that stand in the 
way  of  the  efforts  of  Governments,  particularly  the 
Governments  of  developing  countries,  to  fulfil  their 
obligations towards this important issue.
Mr.  Montwedi  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
associates itself with the statement delivered on behalf 
of the African Group on the subject of the report of the 
Human Rights Council (A/68/53).
South  Africa  welcomes  this  opportunity  for  a 
dialogue with the President of the Human Rights Council 
on  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  and  its  activities 
during  its  seventh  cycle  year.  We  also  appreciate  the 
vision and leadership role played by the presidency in 
carrying out the mandate of supporting the work of the 
Council.
South  Africa  supports  the  Council’s  mandate 
as  a  principal  United  Nations  body  responsible  for 
universal  respect  for  and  the  protection  of  all  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  That  should 
be without distinction of any kind and must be carried 
out  in  a  fair  and  equal  manner,  as  enshrined  in  the 
founding  resolution  60/251.  We  wish  to  recall  that 
the  Council  was  established  as  a  subsidiary  body  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  body  of  first  instance  in 
addressing all human rights and fundamental freedoms 
through  cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue,  free  from 
politicization,  selectivity  and  double  standards.  It  is 
that  resolve  that  impels  the  Council  to  give  balanced 
attention  to  economic,  social,  cultural,  civil  and 
political rights, as well as to the realization of the right 
to  development.  The  decisions  and  resolutions  of  the 
Council are important and should be given time to run 
their course, without the same texts being duplicated in 
the Third Committee even before they are implemented.
We therefore remain convinced that the spirit and 
vision embodied in the Proclamation of Tehran, adopted 
during the International Conference on Human Rights 
in  1968,  that  the  full  realization  of  civil  and  political 
rights  without  the  enjoyment  of  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights  is  actually  impossible  and  hollow.  The 
achievement of lasting progress in the implementation 
of human rights is dependent upon sound and effective 
national  and  international  policies  of  economic  and 
social development.
The  current  financial  and  economic  crises  will 
no  doubt  have  a  negative  effect  on  the  work  of  the 
Council,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  numerous 
recommendations  in  decisions  and  resolutions,  which 
need  to  be  implemented  in  an  equal  manner.  In  that 
context,  South  Africa  remains  convinced  that  the 
universal  periodic  review  (UPR)  is  the  pillar  for  the 
work of the Council in the fulfilment of States’ human 
rights obligations and the improvement of the situation 
on the ground in every country.
In  realizing  that  objective,  the  Voluntary  Fund 
the 
for  Financial  and  Technical  Assistance 
implementation of the UPR must be properly resourced 
for  the  purposes  of  assisting  States  to  develop  their 
national capacities and expertise for the implementation 
of the Council’s recommendations. 
for 
Similarly, we attach great importance to the work 
of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  generally  and  in  the  context  of 
resolution  48/141,  which  established  the  Office  in  the 
first place and directed it to work under the direction 
of  the  Secretary-General,  within  the  framework  of 
the  overall  competence,  authority  and  decisions  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  the  erstwhile  Commission  on  Human 
Rights,  whose  mandate  now  devolves  on  the  Human 
Rights Council. It is imperative to emphasize that the 
resolution  outlines  the  mandate  of  the  Office  of  the 
High  Commissioner  as  the  promotion  and  protection 
of all universally recognized human rights — as well 
as, more importantly, one issue that is usually forgotten 
by the United Nations human rights system in Geneva, 
namely,  the  realization  of  the  right  to  development. 
Again, we cannot overemphasize that point.
We  therefore  call  for  a  more  visible  allocation 
of  resources  and  other  support  to  enable  the  Office 
to  carry  out  its  mandate.  It  is  also  our  view  that,  in 
addressing  key  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights 
issues,  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  should 
align itself with the overall, overarching vision for the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Developments  Goals 
(MDGs).  South  Africa  is  of  the  view  that  the  current 
post-2015  development  agenda  should  not  deflect  our 
attention from achieving the MDGs.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  Council’s  work  in  the 
area  of  the  practical  enjoyment  of  economic,  social 
and  cultural  rights,  which  remain  key  to  eradicating 
extreme  poverty,  inequality  and  underdevelopment 
worldwide.  We  are  of  the  view  that  more  can  still  be 
28/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
done  in  that  area.  South  Africa  appreciates  the  work 
currently  being  undertaken  relating  to  the  roles  and 
responsibilities of transnational corporations and other 
business enterprises with respect to human rights. We 
look forward to a more systematic and focused approach 
to  dealing  with  the  human  rights  violations  that  are 
often caused by such entities. It should be pointed out 
that  they  still  remain  unaccountable  in  international 
human rights law.
It  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  application  of  the 
principle of non-discrimination remains a cornerstone 
of  the  practical  enjoyment  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  in  the  Council’s  work.  Its 
efforts  on  racial  discrimination  should  be  further 
reinforced  and  strengthened.  It  is  particularly  critical 
that programmes, decisions and resolutions in the area 
be fully implemented and funding provided for them as 
well. My delegation remains seriously concerned about 
the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-
2015  contained  in  document  A/68/6,  which  reduced 
funding  for  the  follow-up  and  implementation  of  the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the 
fellowship programmes associated with that process. 
to 
implement 
We wish to reiterate the call for a more equitable 
allocation  of  funding 
the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  as  part  of 
the  global  effort  to  eradicate  the  scourges  of  racism 
everywhere.  South  Africa  attaches  great  importance 
to  decisions  and  resolutions  in  the  area  of  racial 
discrimination, and we remain concerned about the lack 
of  progress  in  ensuring  that  the  independent  eminent 
experts’ group previously appointed by the Secretary-
General is sufficiently supported to enable it to carry 
out its mandate to follow up on the implementation of 
the Declaration and Programme of Action.
South  Africa  welcomes  the  Council’s  attention 
to  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territories and wishes to emphasize that the 
Palestinians’  practical  enjoyment  of  all  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms hinges on the realization of 
their right to self-determination.
The recent attempts to erode the institution-building 
text  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  have  highlighted 
serious  governance  gaps  in  the  work  and  authority 
of  the  Council.  The  Council’s  credibility  depends 
on  that  critical  institutional  foundation.  It  is  equally 
incumbent on the Council to always promote dialogue 
and  cooperation  in  carrying  out  its  mandate.  Matters 
with  serious  political  ramifications  should  always  be 
consulted  on  by  the  full  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  through  the  General  Assembly,  in  line  with 
paragraph 5 of resolution 60/251.
Finally, we share other delegations’ concerns about 
with the manner in which issues are raised in Council 
resolution  24/24,  adopted  during  its  twenty-fourth 
session  in  September,  entitled  “Cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations,  its  representatives  and  mechanisms 
in  the  field  of  human  rights”,  particularly  regarding 
the designation of a United Nations-wide senior focal 
point to promote the prevention of, protection against 
and  accountability  for  reprisals  and  intimidation. 
It  is  our  firm  belief  that  that  matter  requires  further 
reflection  and  deliberation  by  the  General  Assembly, 
including  a  determination  of  the  way  forward.  South 
Africa  is  strongly  opposed  to  any  act  of  intimidation 
or  reprisals  against  any  individual  or  group,  and  we 
believe that domestic jurisprudence should be used to 
deal adequately with matters of that nature.
We wish to assure the President and the President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  of  our  support  and 
cooperation  in  leading  the  Council  on  its  path  to 
fulfilling its mandate, which remains our vision going 
forward.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): I would like at the outset 
to  express  our  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Henczel, 
President of the Human Rights Council, for introducing 
the Council’s report today (A/68/53).
Egypt  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the  representative  of  Gabon  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, and would like to make the following remarks 
in its national capacity.
The annual report of the Human Rights Council on 
its  regular  and  special  sessions  reflects  the  Council’s 
efforts 
to  build  national  capacities  and  promote 
economic,  social,  cultural,  civil  and  political  rights 
on an equal footing. We commend its significant role 
in  promoting  all  human  rights  through  the  universal 
periodic  review  process,  which  remains  the  only 
relevant  mechanism 
for  addressing  human-rights 
situations in a comprehensive and balanced manner. We 
also commend the Council on its work in promoting the 
protection of human rights in the occupied Palestinian 
territories, including East Jerusalem and the occupied 
Syrian  Golan,  as  well  as  in  combating  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia, 
intolerance,  negative 
stereotyping  and  stigmatization  based  on  religion  or 
belief. 
13-56114
29/31
A/68/PV.52 
13/11/2013
The Human Rights Council has a crucial role to play 
in supporting Member States in their efforts to promote 
and protect human rights. In order to succeed, it should 
fully  respect  the  principle  of  sovereignty  and  uphold 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  should  act  with  even-handedness,  impartiality  and 
non-selectivity by avoiding the following predicaments: 
first,  politicizing  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  work 
to  serve  political  objectives  that  are  not  related  to 
the  protection  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms;  secondly,  injecting  controversial  notions 
such  as  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity  in  an 
attempt to legitimize such notions, which have no legal 
foundation  under  national  humanitarian  and  human 
rights  law;  and  thirdly,  using  the  Council  as  a  tool 
to  legitimize  interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of 
Member States, contrary to the Charter of the United 
Nations. 
The  Human  Rights  Council  should  not  become 
a  tool  for  any  groups  or  Member  States  who  claim 
moral  superiority  over  other  members  and  designate 
themselves  guardians  of  universal  values  that  they 
themselves  have  defined,  disregarding  the  diversity 
of  social,  cultural,  legal  and  religious  values  of  other 
Member  States,  which  will  eventually  undermine  the 
universality of the cause of human rights. 
The  international  community  has  a  responsibility 
to strenghthen the role of the Human Rights Council by 
ensuring the full and timely cooperation of all Member 
States  with  international  fact-finding  missions  and 
missions of enquiry created by Council resolutions and 
to ensure the implementation of the recommendations 
of  those  missions.  It  should  also  ensure  that  mandate 
holders fully respect their mandates and their codes of 
conduct.
Finally, Egypt reaffirms its commitment to support 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  respecting 
all  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  by 
promoting the implementation of the recommendations 
of the universal periodic review by all States, without 
distinction, and by encouraging the engagement of all 
States with mandate holders. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 64. 
for  the  second  and  that  delegations  must  speak  from 
their seats. 
Mr. Al-Hamadi (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): We have 
taken the floor to reply to the claims and accusations 
made by the Syrian regime’s representative against my 
country. The representative of that regime continues to 
distort realities and facts, trying to depict the revolution 
of  the  free  people  of  Syria,  who  are  calling  for  their 
rightful,  legitimate  rights,  as  if  it  were  terrorism 
supported  from  abroad,  despite  the  resolutions  and 
reports that condemn the acts of that regime. However, 
through  this  international  body,  we  reaffirm  that  the 
State of Qatar will continue to act so as to enable the 
voice of the brotherly Syrian people to reach this body 
as they call for the realization of their legitimate rights.
Ms.  Alsaleh  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  We  apologize  for  asking  for  the  floor  again 
under this agenda item, but we would like to reply to 
the  accusations  made  by  the  State  of  Qatar  just  now. 
The  repetitive  statements  by  representatives  of  Qatar, 
trying in vain to persuade the international community 
that what is happening in Syria is the responsibility of 
the Syrian Government, is an insult to the intelligence 
of  those  who  are  present  here.  It  is  a  revolting  joke 
and  insult.  We  advise  the  representative  of  Qatar  to 
read  the  media  reports  of  international  organizations, 
highlighting the role of Qatar in funding the terrorism 
of Al Qaida in my country. 
The Syrian people send a message to Qatar. It goes 
as follows: Stop lying! The Syrian people will hold the 
regime of Qatar accountable for all its crimes against 
the Syrian people very soon.  In Doha, there are those 
who should pay for the blood shed by Syrian citizens. A 
change in the leadership of the Qatari Government does 
not mean that those who sponsor Wahabi fundamentalist 
terrorism in my country will stop.
Mr.  Al-Hamadi  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As  I 
mentioned  in  my  first  intervention,  it  was  not  merely 
an accusation, it was in reference to General Assembly 
resolutions, particularly resolutions 67/262 and 66/253, 
and  reports  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
decisions taken by the Human Rights Council, as well 
as  the  resolutions  and  presidential  statements  of  the 
Security Council.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would like to 
remind members that rights of reply should be limited 
to 10 minutes for the first intervention and five minutes 
Ms.  Al-saleh  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): We apologize yet again for taking the floor. We 
are saddened that the representative of Qatar mentions 
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Human 
30/31 
13-56114
13/11/2013 
A/68/PV.52
Rights  Council,  although  those  resolutions  were  not 
adopted by consensus. Those resolutions were promoted 
by his country and other countries with very notorious 
political  agendas  against  my  country.  We  therefore 
advise the representative of Qatar not to interfere in the 
internal affairs of Syria, and we promise him that the 
Syrian people will hold Qatar accountable very soon. 
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of the consideration of agenda item 64.
The  meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 
13-56114
31/31
