United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
18th plenary meeting
Saturday, 28 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.18
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mrs. Portia Simpson Miller, Prime 
Minister, Minister of Defence, Development, 
Information and Sports of Jamaica
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Defence, 
Development, Information and Sports of Jamaica.
Mrs.  Portia  Simpson  Miller,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Development,  Information 
and Sports of Jamaica, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Portia  Simpson  Miller,  Prime 
Minister,  Minister 
of  Defence,  Development, 
Information and Sports of Jamaica, and inviting her to 
address the General Assembly.
Mrs.  Simpson  Miller  (Jamaica):  I  am  extremely 
pleased that a son of the Caribbean — and one with such 
a wealth of experience and tested diplomatic skills — is 
presiding over the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session. 
the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  untiring  efforts 
to promote international peace and development, and I 
thank him for his exemplary leadership.
I  commend 
The 
theme 
for  our  debate,  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  catapults 
development  to  the  centre  of  the  United  Nations 
agenda, impelling us to elaborate a meaningful and far-
reaching development framework for the benefit of all. 
Our deliberations and actions during this session must 
therefore  send  a  clear  message  of  hope  to  the  many 
millions  who,  sadly,  are  still  living  in  poverty  and 
inequity. Let us redouble our efforts to fight against the 
scourge  of  poverty.  It  was  the  late  Jamaican  national 
hero, Marcus Mosiah Garvey, who aptly said:
“Poverty  is  a  hellish  state  to  be  in.  It  is  no 
virtue.  It  is  a  crime.  To  be  poor  is  to  be  hungry 
without  possible  hope  of  food;  to  be  sick  without 
hope  of  medicine;  to  be  tired  and  sleepy  without 
a place to lay one’s head; to be naked without the 
hope  of  clothing;  to  be  despised  and  comfortless. 
To be poor is to be a fit subject for crime and hell.”
Too  many  of  the  world’s  citizens  are  facing  that 
reality. We need to fulfil the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution 55/2), which entrusted to us the responsibility 
to  chart  a  path  towards  development  underpinned  by 
a  commitment  to  eradicate  poverty  on  the  basis  of  a 
global partnership.
As the deadline for the attainment of the Millennium 
Development Goals draws near, with under 1,000 days 
remaining,  we  face  many  challenges,  including  the 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  climate  change, 
natural  disasters,  high  levels  of  debt  and  conflict. 
With  the  limited  time  remaining,  it  is  imperative  for 
us to accelerate our efforts. Anything less would be a 
disservice to our people.
While  we  contemplate  a  post-2015  development 
framework, we must also complete unfinished business 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48803 (E)
*1348803*
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
in  the  reduction  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger, 
combating  HIV/AIDS,  halting  and  reversing 
the 
incidence  of  malaria  and  tuberculosis  and  increasing 
access to reproductive health care. In our deliberations 
on a post-2015 development agenda, we must determine 
how best to shape a global compact that is universal and 
people-centred  and  that  strikes  the  balance  between 
the  need  for  robust  economic  growth,  job  creation 
and  poverty  eradication  and  the  equally  important 
need  to  preserve  and  protect  the  environment.  Our 
deliberations have to take into account the special needs 
of disadvantaged groups of countries, in particular the 
vulnerable  group  of  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS), which are grappling with climate change, sea-
level rise and the need to deal with new and emerging 
economic and social situations.
We  are  pleased  that  international  attention  will 
be focused on small island developing States in 2014, 
when  the  international  community  will  observe  the 
International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States. 
The  success  of  the  Samoa  Conference  in  2014  will 
depend  on  strong  international  support  for  and  the 
mainstreaming  of  SIDS  issues  in  all  activities  across 
the United Nations system.
A  sustainable  approach  to  development  should 
include  people  with  disabilities  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  It  should  also  provide  for  the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases 
and additional financial resources to sustain the global 
fight against HIV/AIDS.
Another  major  threat  to  development  is  the  high 
incidence  of  road  crashes.  I  call  on  all  countries  to 
take  the  challenge  of  reducing  injuries  and  fatalities 
resulting from road crashes and traffic accidents more 
seriously as a crucial policy issue.
There  is  an  urgent  need  for  innovative  and 
sustainable  financing  to  underpin  our  development 
efforts.  Reforms  should  be  undertaken  in  a  manner 
that  will  assist  middle-income  developing  countries 
to  deal  with  the  challenges  they  face.  Those  reforms 
must address public debt sustainability and review the 
classification  system  of  middle-income  developing 
countries with a view to coming up with more relevant 
and appropriate measures of development.
There  is  an  urgent  need  for  greater  focus  on  job 
creation,  including  for  unemployed  youth.  I  note  that 
the  International  Labour  Organization  has  estimated 
that  global  unemployment  will  rise  to  202  million 
this  year.  That  alarming  statistic  is  overshadowed  by 
estimate  of  the  global  working  poor,  which  is  in  the 
order  of  869  million,  almost  400  million  of  whom 
live  in  extreme  poverty.  Growth  in  joblessness  is 
reflected  in  rural  and  urban  pockets  of  poverty  and 
social deprivation. Increased investment in developing 
countries with a focus on job creation is an avenue that 
must be actively pursued.
We  need  to  provide  more  assistance  for  people 
to  cope  with  daily  life,  as  growth  and  prosperity  are 
unevenly  distributed  and  the  most  vulnerable  are  at 
risk  of  falling  through  the  cracks,  being  overlooked 
and  failing  to  achieve  a  decent  quality  of  life.  Social 
protection schemes should work effectively to provide 
for basic needs and encourage target groups to pursue 
self-advancement  while 
facilitating  empowerment 
and  fostering  greater  inclusiveness.  As  countries  like 
Jamaica implement strategies to deal with indebtedness 
and  also  encourage  growth  and  investment,  it  is 
critical  that  international  financial  institutions  and 
multilateral and other development partners recognize 
the importance of social protection mechanisms.
As  we  forge  the  agenda  for  development  for  the 
next decade and beyond, we do so in part on behalf of 
a group that is very close to my heart — our children. 
The future we want, the future we craft, the future we 
achieve  will  be  our  legacy  to  our  children.  We  must 
redouble  our  efforts  to  safeguard  their  rights  and 
enhance their development. Despite limited resources, 
Jamaica  continues  to  make  every  effort  to  meet  its 
obligations  to  its  children.  We  condemn  violence  and 
abuse against our children and reaffirm our commitment 
to  safeguarding  and  promoting  the  rights  of  children 
everywhere. We must leave no child behind.
The  issue  of  human  trafficking  is  of  paramount 
concern. I am always mindful of the horrors and evils 
of slavery, both in history and in its modern-day form. 
I am particularly moved by the knowledge that young 
girls and boys are torn daily from the bosom of their 
families,  taken  to  strange  lands,  placed  in  subhuman 
conditions and forced to perform unspeakable acts. We 
must unite in our efforts to eliminate that transnational 
scourge and bring an end to human trafficking among 
our women, men and children. We must ensure that in 
these modern times we do not have a re-enactment of 
slavery.We must stamp it out wherever it exists and bring 
the perpetrators to justice. We must protect our future 
generations.  Never  again  should  anything  resembling 
slavery be tolerated anywhere.
2/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Jamaica is proud to lead the efforts, in collaboration 
with  the  countries  of  the  Caribbean  Community  and 
members of the African Union, to have the permanent 
memorial to the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave  trade  erected  here  at  the  United  Nations.  The 
unveiling  of  the  winning  design  of  the  permanent 
memorial earlier this week signals an important chapter 
in our journey to honour the memory of the millions of 
men and women who were subject to untold atrocities. 
When I attended the unveiling I was reminded of the 
words of our reggae icon, Bob Marley:
“Old pirates, yes, they rob I;
Sold I to the merchant ships,
Minutes after they took I
From the bottomless pit.
But my hand was made strong
By the hand of the Almighty.
We forward in this generation
Triumphantly.”
We  are  grateful  for  the  generous  contributions 
towards the erection of the memorial, and we encourage 
the  international  community  to  continue  to  show 
financial support for that important initiative.
Jamaica  supports  the  call  for  an  international 
discussion  in  a  non-confrontational  manner  on  the 
question of reparations. We fully support the initiative 
to proclaim a decade for people of African descent.
The  quest  for  development  will  not  be  complete 
without  requisite  attention  being  paid  to  peace  and 
security. My heart goes out to the families of the victims 
of the horrific attack in Kenya. Transnational organized 
criminal  enterprises  wreak  havoc  on  economies  and 
challenge  the  capacity  of  States  to  deal  with  those 
threats. No country is immune to the direct or indirect 
effects of the scourge of transnational crime. Increased 
collaboration is necessary in confronting such threats 
to  human  development.  To  that  end,  we  welcome  the 
recent  opening  for  signature  of  the  landmark  Arms 
Trade Treaty in June of this year, which represents one 
of  many  steps  that  the  international  community  must 
take towards defeating terrorism, crime and violence. 
Jamaica is currently embarking on the process leading 
to ratification of the Treaty.
Bilateral 
and 
regional 
through 
information-sharing,  capacity-building  and  assistance 
are integral to dealing with crime, violence and security 
issues. 
cooperation 
We remain deeply concerned about the suffering of 
the people in Syria and join the international community 
in  condemning  the  use  of  chemical  weapons.  We 
welcome the recent positive steps taken by the Security 
Council. Jamaica remains firmly committed to a just, 
lasting  and  peaceful  solution  to  the  situation  in  the 
Middle East.
Turning  closer  to  home,  the  trade  and  economic 
embargo  against  our  neighbour  Cuba  has  caused  its 
people untold hardship. It has no place in the twenty-
first  century.  We  reiterate  our  call  for  an  end  to  the 
embargo against Cuba and to extraterritorial measures 
that target third-party countries.
Jamaica  has  never  lost  faith  in  the  influence  for 
good  that  exists  here  at  the  United  Nations.  We  are 
fully  aware  that  the  expectations  and  aspirations  of 
peoples  rest  in  our  hands.  At  this  pivotal  moment  in 
history, let us revitalize the partnership on which this 
great institution is built. I draw on the words of the civil 
rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., when he said,
“The  ultimate  measure  of  a  man  is  not  where  he 
stands  in  moments  of  comfort  and  convenience 
but  where  he  stands  at  times  of  challenge  and 
controversy.”
The  challenges  and  expectations  of  our  time  are 
indeed great. It falls to our generation to take a stand. 
Now is the time to act.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, 
Development,  Information  and  Sports  of  Jamaica  for 
the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Portia  Simpson  Miller,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister of Defence, Development, Information and 
Sports of Jamaica, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam, 
Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Home 
Affairs and External Communications, Minister 
of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms of 
the Republic of Mauritius
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Defence, 
Home Affairs and External Communications, Minister 
of  Civil  Service  and  Administrative  Reforms  of  the 
Republic of Mauritius.
13-48803
3/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs  and  External 
Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service 
and  Administrative  Reforms  of  the  Republic  of 
Mauritius, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam, 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs 
and  External  Communications,  Minister  of  Civil 
Service  and  Administrative  Reforms  of  the  Republic 
of Mauritius, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Ramgoolam  (Mauritius):  As  we  meet  this 
morning to address global concerns and seek ways to 
ensure progress and lasting peace, the people of Kenya 
are emerging from a terrorist attack that has cost them 
many lives and shaken the continent. In expressing our 
solidarity with the Government and the people of Kenya 
and with the families of the victims, Mauritius would 
also like to express its unreserved condemnation of that 
abominable and dastardly act of terrorism. The Nairobi 
attack  should  also  compel  us  to  revisit  regional  and 
global responses to national and international security 
threats,  including  extending  support  to  countries, 
particularly those on the African continent.
Mauritius  commends  you,  Mr.  President,  for  the 
theme  you  have  proposed  for  the  sixty-eighth  session 
of the Assembly, namely, “The post-2015 development 
agenda: setting the stage”. The goals we set ourselves 
for  the  sustainable  development  of  our  national  and 
global economies will shape the lives of generations to 
come. I would like to say at the outset that Mauritius 
welcomes the report of the High-level Panel of Eminent 
Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda, A New 
Global Partnership: Eradicate Poverty and Transform 
Economies  through  Sustainable  Development,  and  in 
particular the recommendation that deliberations on a 
new development agenda must be guided by the vision 
of eradicating extreme poverty for all in the context of 
sustainable development. We also welcome the Panel’s 
view that one of the transformative shifts for the post-
2015 agenda should be to bring a new sense of global 
partnership into national and international politics.
Climate change should be one of the top priorities for 
the global agenda. The report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change,  Climate  Change  2013:  The 
Physical  Science  Basis,  released  only  yesterday,  is 
unequivocal.  It  provides  clear  scientific  confirmation 
that  we  humans  are  responsible  for  global  warming, 
and that it is up to us to take appropriate measures to try 
to save our home planet. We cannot and should not any 
longer ignore the evidence that we humans are putting 
life on Earth in jeopardy. 
In our region, we have recently seen an increased 
and  unprecedented  intensity  and  unpredictability  of 
weather  events.  In  March,  my  country  experienced 
unprecedented flash floods that caused losses of human 
life and heavy economic losses. No country is safe from 
natural  disasters  and  the  damaging  effects  of  climate 
change.  But  for  many  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS), the foreseeable consequences of climate change 
threaten  us  even  more  dramatically,  in  terms  of  both 
human  and  economic  development.  For  some  SIDS, 
they pose an existential threat.
We fully support the Secretary-General’s proposal 
to convene world leaders to a climate summit in New 
York in 2014. We hope that that meeting will provide 
an  opportunity  for  world  leaders  to  focus  political 
attention on climate change and take meaningful action 
to mitigate its effects. We must start putting the interests 
of  our  home  planet  above  everything  else.  The  world 
needs  a  global,  legally  binding  agreement  on  climate 
change  by  2015.  At  the  Paris  meeting  of  the  twenty-
first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, we should 
adopt a treaty that is universal and ambitious and that 
concretely  addresses  the  concerns  of  all,  including 
those of the most vulnerable States.
The international community should also pay more 
attention  to  disaster  risk  reduction  and  adopt  a  more 
concerted  and  accelerated  approach  to  reaching  the 
goals set out in the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-
2015 (see A/CONF.206/6). The time has come to address 
disaster  risks  and  climate-change  adaptation  through 
an  integrated  approach,  and  to  adopt  resilience  as  a 
common and shared vision. Mauritius welcomes Japan’s 
decision  to  host  the  World  Conference  on  Disaster 
Reduction in early 2015 to review the implementation 
of the Hyogo Framework and chart an ambitious post-
2015 framework for disaster risk reduction. 
In  that  regard,  the  holding  in  Samoa  next  year  of 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States could not be more timely. We hope 
that the Conference will be a landmark in the history of a 
more active and collaborative partnership among SIDS 
and  between  SIDS  and  the  international  community. 
4/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Furthermore,  it  could  be  an  opportunity  to  give  new 
meaning to the concept of global concerns, issues that 
are, or should be, the concern of the global community 
at large, and not only of those who are more vulnerable 
and more at risk. That would be in line with the spirit 
of the global partnership that the High-level Panel has 
called for.
The  prospects  for  growth  in  the  global  economy 
remain  uncertain,  largely  as  a  result  of  the  multiple 
challenges  faced  by  developed  countries.  In  such  an 
interconnected  and  interdependent  world  as  ours,  no 
nation is immune to external shocks. Small developing 
countries  are  very  concerned  about  the  slowdown 
in  global  growth,  declines  in  international  trade, 
decreasing  job  opportunities  and  rising  inequality. 
Small  States  are  particularly  susceptible  to  external 
shocks,  as  they  are  heavily  dependent  on  foreign 
markets  for  trade,  tourism  and  investments.  They  are 
also concerned about energy and food prices, which are 
subject to high volatility.
that 
My  Government  believes 
the  post-2015 
development agenda should include a road map for an 
interconnected world economic system, premised on the 
assumption that the global economy could very well be 
as weak as its weakest links. Of course, the specificities 
of some countries or regions and the pace at which the 
transformative shifts are implemented may not always 
be appropriate for universal targets. But the conceptual 
approach  to,  and  the  design  of,  the  post-2015  agenda 
should,  more  than  ever  before,  start  with  the  shared 
conviction that economies are interdependent.
Eradicating  extreme  poverty,  empowering  more 
women, providing wider opportunities to young people 
for education and jobs, improving health care and the 
management of energy, water and food are all universal 
concerns.  The  conventional  divides  of  the  past  are 
no  longer  valid.  We  need  a  common  development 
framework  but  with  differentiated  milestones  and 
implementation strategies, given the existing disparities 
in  the  levels  of  development.  Actions  taken  at  the 
national  level  are  not  sufficient;  there  should  also  be 
reinforced cooperation and partnerships at the regional 
and international levels. It is therefore imperative that 
the weaknesses and the inequity of the current global 
economic governance should be addressed urgently.
We are at a juncture where we have no option but 
to  revisit  the  existing  global  economic  governance 
mechanisms.  An  overhaul  of  the  current  economic 
governance is clearly long overdue. We must have a more 
participatory  system  of  global  economic  governance, 
where  developing  countries  would  be  more  involved 
in international economic decision-making and norm-
setting. The voice of all nations, big or small, should be 
equally heard and taken into consideration.
Mauritius has, on several occasions, reiterated that 
the United Nations Economic and Social Council needs 
to play a more prominent role in global economic, social, 
and  environmental  issues.  We  cannot  overstate  the 
importance  of  coordination  and  synergy  for  avoiding 
duplication  among  parallel  United  Nations  processes 
and initiatives so as to ensure optimal benefit for all.
My Government is of the view that all the processes 
initiated in the Rio+20 Conference last year, including 
those relating to strengthening the Economic and Social 
Council, sustainable development goals and sustainable 
development  financing,  should  converge  towards  a 
single  post-2015  development  agenda  that  should  be 
adopted  during  a  high-level  development  summit 
in  2015.  The  post-2015  development  agenda  should 
complete  the  unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. However, it should also go beyond 
them and provide for a systemic change and a new global 
economic governance. The guiding principles enshrined 
in the Declaration on the Right to Development, adopted 
in December 1986 (resolution 41/133), are still relevant 
today and should not be overlooked in the formulation 
of a post-2015 development agenda.
it 
replaces 
since 
especially 
My country will follow, with particular interest, the 
work  of  the  high-level  political  forum  on  sustainable 
development, 
the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  was 
the  primary  intergovernmental  forum  for  monitoring 
the  implementation  of  the  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation.
As we set the stage for the post-2015 development 
agenda, we must, as global leaders, define a new global 
vision for the world’s oceans. The United Nations system 
has played a crucial role in formulating, implementing 
and enforcing a new international order relating to the 
oceans.  Indeed,  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982 will remain 
one of the landmarks of the twentieth century.
The  jurisprudence  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  has  contributed  to  the  settlement  of  maritime 
disputes  and  the  promotion  of  international  peace, 
13-48803
5/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
security and equity in a manner not always witnessed in 
other areas of international relations. The establishment 
of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  is  another 
significant  example  of  what  international  cooperation 
can lead to in other sectors. The International Maritime 
Organization and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic 
Commission of UNESCO are also making significant 
contributions.
I believe that the United Nations must now take the 
lead in formulating a global vision for the oceans that 
will, in particular, expand the economic space for small 
island  States  while  ensuring  sustainable  use  of  living 
and non-living resources. The health of our economies 
will depend on the health of our oceans. Our vision for 
the  future  must  also  preserve  the  inherent  values  of 
the ocean space, to which we are looking for economic 
expansion.
Mauritius  has  taken  the  initiative  of  launching  a 
national dialogue on how to promote the ocean economy 
as one of the main pillars of development. We urge the 
international community to build on what the world has 
achieved  so  far  in  relation  to  ocean-related  economic 
activities and conservation, and we propose for future 
generations a fundamental paradigm shift with respect 
to  economic  space.  While  such  a  global  vision  and 
strategy will be beneficial to all nations, it will be of 
particular  interest  to  small  islands.  With  limited  land 
areas, the islands can potentially be large ocean States 
and  thus  overcome  some  of  their  vulnerabilities  as 
small  island  developing  States.  As  the  world  realizes 
the tremendous potential of marine renewable energies, 
we will see the oceans from a different perspective.
The  United  Nations  has  a  key  role  to  play  in 
promoting the rule of law at both the national and the 
international levels. The rule of law at the international 
level must be an integral part of the post-2015 agenda. 
Open and participatory democracy, accountability and 
transparency are not concepts that should be promoted 
only  at  the  national  level.  The  United  Nations  should 
lead  by  example  here.  We  should  focus  on  reforming 
our Organization and on making it more responsive to 
the needs and aspirations of its constituents.
In  that  context,  we  should  work  together  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  revitalization 
of the General Assembly and on improving the working 
methods of our Organization. Mauritius believes that a 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council should 
include reform in the membership of both the permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories.  We  reaffirm  our 
commitment to the African common position enshrined 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration. 
We believe that Africa should not be deprived of its right 
to permanent representation in the Council. Likewise, 
we  believe  that  Latin  America  deserves  permanent 
representation in the Council and that SIDS should also 
be entitled to a seat on the Council. Mauritius further 
reiterates its support for India’s legitimate aspiration to 
a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council.
Mauritius also reiterates its firm conviction that the 
rule of law should prevail in the resolution of disputes, 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. 
We  believe  that  the  international  community  has  an 
obligation to ensure that, in line with the principles of 
the rule of law, nations should submit their disputes to 
conciliation, mediation, adjudication or other peaceful 
means, both judicial and non-judicial.
The  dismemberment  of  part  of  our  territory, 
the  Chagos  archipelago,  prior  to  independence,  by 
the  then  colonial  Power  the  United  Kingdom,  was  in 
clear  breach  of  international  law  and  left  the  process 
of decolonization, not only of Mauritius but of Africa 
in  general,  incomplete.  Yet,  the  United  Kingdom  has 
shown no inclination to engage in any process that would 
lead to a settlement of that shameful part of its colonial 
past. I am confident that the United Kingdom and the 
United States of America want to be on the right side 
of history. States that look to the law and to the rules 
of the comity of nations for the resolution of disputes 
should not be frustrated by the lack of avenues under 
international law for the settlement of such disputes.
Tromelin,  which  is  also  an  integral  part  of  our 
territory,  is  the  subject  of  ongoing  discussions  with 
the French Government, and pending a final resolution 
of  the  issue,  Mauritius  and  France  have  concluded  a 
framework  agreement  on  the  co-management  of  the 
island  and  its  surrounding  maritime  areas,  without 
prejudice to the sovereignty of Mauritius over Tromelin.
In our part of the world, we welcome the rise of a 
re-energized  Africa.  The  return  to  normalcy  in  Mali 
and  the  recent  holding  of  elections  there  show  the 
relevance  of  international  partnerships.  The  situation 
in  Madagascar  and  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  will,  hopefully,  be  resolved  soon  through 
the  support  of  the  international  community  for  the 
initiatives  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community in that regard.
6/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Earlier  this  year,  Mauritius  hosted  an  African 
ministerial conference on regional integration. We are 
convinced that African nations will benefit significantly 
from a greater focus on regional cooperation, and I am 
pleased to note that the solemn declaration adopted on 
the fiftieth anniversary of the African Union supports 
that view.
The tragic events in Syria over the last two years 
are  of  serious  concern  to  the  global  community. 
There  is  also  concern  about  attempts  to  bypass  the 
Security  Council  and  to  initiate  action  in  breach  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  Respect  for  the  rule  of 
law  at  the  international  level  entails  compliance  with 
internationally  agreed  norms.  Mauritius  will  support 
the decisions taken by the organs of the United Nations 
under the Charter.
We  welcome 
the  Security  Council  resolution 
that  addresses  one  of  the  issues  in  the  Syrian  crisis. 
However,  the  international  community  needs  to  go 
further  and  address  the  issue  of  political  dialogue, 
which will enable the Syrian people to live in peace.
Mauritius also supports a Middle East that is free 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  That  means  that  no 
country in the region should hold nuclear or chemical 
weapons.
Mauritius is convinced that an essential condition 
for  peace  and  prosperity  in  the  Middle  East  is  the 
peaceful  coexistence  of  the  States  of  Palestine  and 
Israel. Mauritius wishes to reiterate its solidarity with 
the  Palestine  National  Authority  and  the  Palestinian 
people in their rightful aspiration to win full recognition 
as a State Member of the United Nations.
Mauritius  also  supports  the  peaceful  restoration 
of  democracy  in  Egypt,  which  has  a  key  role  to  play 
in  promoting  stability  and  security  in  the  region. 
But  the  international  community  cannot  condone  the 
removal  by  force  from  office  and  the  detention  of  a 
democratically elected leader.
(spoke in French)
The general debate of the General Assembly offers 
us  a  unique  opportunity  to  highlight  the  most  urgent 
challenges  that  humankind  is  currently  facing.  We 
must  take  advantage  of  this  opportunity  to  review 
recent events and to outline new approaches that will 
enable us to respond to these challenges in keeping with 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  must  address  those  challenges  through  a 
shared  vision  of  peace,  security,  interdependence  and 
respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
We  must  remain  staunch  in  protecting  the  right 
to  development.  We  also  have  the  duty  to  take  a 
differentiated  approach  so  as  to  ensure  that  our 
development  model  is  sustainable  and  allows  us  to 
leave to future generations the values our world holds 
dear. Our success will depend on the collective will and 
commitment. If we succeed, we will go down in history 
as  having  met  today’s  challenges  and  expectations  in 
terms of the future.
(spoke in English)
To  conclude,  let  me  say  that  we  need  to  act 
together, in a spirit of compromise and tolerance. We 
should  constantly  remind  ourselves  that  we  are  of 
one  kind,  humankind.  There  are  not,  and  never  will 
be,  ideal  solutions  that  will  satisfy  all  of  us.  But  we, 
the  leaders  of  our  respective  countries,  need  to  look 
beyond the horizon and have the moral courage to look 
at our common humanity so that we may move forward 
towards  making  our  world  a  better,  more  prosperous 
and safer place for the whole of humankind.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, 
Home Affairs and External Communications, Minister 
of  Civil  Service  and  Administrative  Reforms  of  the 
Republic  of  Mauritius  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs  and  External 
Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service 
and  Administrative  Reforms  of  the  Republic  of 
Mauritius, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Moana Jacques Kalosil 
Carcasses, Prime Minister of the Republic  
of Vanuatu
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Vanuatu.
Mr.  Moana  Jacques  Kalosil  Carcasses,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Moana Jacques Kalosil Carcasses, 
13-48803
7/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
archipelago  to  be  the  voice  of  those  who  still  live  in 
colonized territories. 
Mr.  Carcasses  (Vanuatu)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Republic  of  Vanuatu  is  honoured  to  participate  in 
this  debate  under  your  presidency,  Sir,  and  we  wish 
to  associate  ourselves  with  all  other  delegations  in 
congratulating  you  and  the  members  of  your  Bureau 
on  your  election  to  lead  us  through  this  sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly.
On Syria, we have seen internal conflicts transformed 
into international disputes that require solutions from 
this body. During this session, there has been intensive 
debate  on  the  protracted  conflict  affecting  the  Syrian 
people  and  undermining  regional  and  international 
peace. We join many other peace-loving nations to call 
for an end to the conflict and for the United Nations to 
do more strongly to enforce the international ban on the 
use of chemical weapons. We also urge the United States 
of America and the Russian Federation to take a strong 
leading role in the issue of Syria and in addressing the 
chemical-weapons issue there.
We are concerned at the fact that that such conflicts 
have  often  diverted  the  international  focus  from 
addressing  much  more  important  issues,  such  as  our 
common  aspirations  for  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  It  is  unfair  that  countries  resorting  to  such 
illegitimate acts can trigger wars that cost a great deal 
of money, whereas the rest of the peace-loving countries 
and their peoples suffer the consequences, as the monies 
spent could be diverted to better and effective use.
It is here, from this rostrum, that the leaders of our 
nations have spoken out freely, from their hearts, in an 
endeavour to find common solutions so as to inspire the 
community of nations committed to international peace 
and security. Our main objectives are to take collective 
decisions so as to address a spectrum of international 
issues, some of which require urgent action, such as the 
issue of climate change. It is here that we have called 
for the recognition of the rights of women, children and 
persons with disabilities who are caught up in conflicts 
and violence. It is here that we have called for help for 
those who have been discriminated against because of 
their colour, their religion or their political convictions.
For  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  this  rostrum  is  the 
only international platform from which, year after year 
since  1981,  we  have  spoken  out  against  colonialism 
and  neo-imperialism  in  all  its  forms.  Today  once 
again, I speak on behalf of the entire population of our 
We  know  that  decolonization  is  still  incomplete. 
However,  we  have  seen  the  Special  Political  and 
Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee)  take 
more and more positive steps during its 2013 sessions, 
recognizing  the  inalienable  right  of  French  Polynesia 
to self-determination. We also applaud the work of the 
Committee in continuing discussions and dialogue on 
the question of New Caledonia. 
Allow me at this juncture to thank the Government of 
France for its cooperation in moving the decolonization 
process  forward.  It  is  important  to  maintain  this 
dialogue  with  the  specific  goal  of  helping  the  Kanak 
people to attain their independence. With the greatest 
possible respect, I encourage all parties to ensure that 
the process of achieving freedom remains on track. We 
in the Melanesian Spearhead Group are appreciative of 
the work of the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation 
Front as chair of the Group.
The  Republic  of  Vanuatu  has  just  emerged  from 
colonialism, having achieved its political independence 
from  the  Powers  of  the  British-French  condominium 
33 years ago. Based on our struggle for independence, 
we share the journey and the litany of heartaches and 
dreams of many of our brothers and sisters whose rights 
to political and civil freedom are still held back by the 
tentacles of imperialism and colonialism.
I would like to reiterate today our appeal launched 
last year from this rostrum that the Secretariat should 
always  remain  impartial  and  avoid  any  selective 
implementation  of  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council  resolutions  on  the  rights  of  all  people  who 
desire  to  be  free  from  colonialism  or  any  form  of 
imperialism.
We  can  debate  issues  of  terrorism,  financial  and 
economic  crises  and  climate  change  and  reach  some 
level  of  understanding  of  the  seriousness  of  those 
challenges  and  the  measures  that  must  be  taken  to 
address them. We can talk of good governance and the 
rule of law and respect for human rights. But when it 
comes to the issue of the rights of the people of West 
Papua, our voices fall silent, even from this rostrum. 
I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  who,  when  he  visited  Asia  in 
2012,  emphasized  that  the  United  Nations  would  do 
8/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
everything  possible  to  ensure  that  human  rights  are 
respected in West Papua, saying 
“whether you are an independent State or a non-self-
governing territory or whatever, [that] human right 
is  inalienable  and  a  fundamental  principle  of  the 
United Nations”. 
Now, as Members of the United Nations, we must 
call for those words to be translated into action. 
My Government calls upon the United Nations to 
appoint  a  special  representative  to  investigate  alleged 
human rights violations in West Papua and its political 
status in the light of the controversies surrounding the 
administration  established  in  the  1960s,  the  United 
Nations Temporary Executive Authority. Ever since the 
controversial Act of Free Choice, the West Papuans have 
always been consistently denied any sort of recognition 
by the United Nations. It is clear from many historical 
records that the Melanesian people of West Papua were 
the scapegoats of Cold War politics and were sacrificed 
to gratify the appetite for the natural resources that the 
country possesses. Today, they are still victims of the 
ignorance of the United Nations.
If  the  United  Nations  representative  at  the  time, 
Mr.  Fernando  Ortiz-Sanz,  described  the  West  Papuan 
issue  as  a  cancer  growing  on  the  side  of  the  United 
Nations and that it was his job to remove it, it is very 
clear today from what we have observed that that cancer 
has never been removed, but merely concealed. One day 
it will have to be treated. We must not be afraid. The 
United Nations has made mistakes in the past. We must 
admit our mistakes and see that we are the stronger for 
that,  because  when  we  are  weak,  admit  our  mistakes 
and  take  corrective  action,  we  become  stronger  and 
more alive. 
As Members of the United Nations, we all subscribe 
to the principles of democracy, good governance, human 
rights, accountability and the rule of law enshrined in 
the United Nations Charter. In this age of technology, 
when nothing can escape the attention of civil society 
and  Governments,  I  ask  how  then  can  we  ignore  the 
hundreds of thousands of West Papuans who have been 
brutally beaten and murdered?
The people of West Papua are looking to the United 
Nations as a beacon of hope. We are now deliberating 
on the issue of Syria. In that same spirit, I would ask 
that my fellow leaders express support for West Papua. 
It  is  time  for  the  United  Nations  to  move  beyond  its 
limits and take action to rectify the errors of the past. 
Since our independence 33 years ago, the indigenous 
peoples of my country have remained concerned that a 
part of our maritime and cultural jurisdiction, including 
the islands of Umaepnune and Leka, situated south of 
Vanuatu, are still occupied by France. Thus, the people 
of  our  country  are  denied  the  right  to  the  exercise  of 
full political freedom and their inherent cultural rights. 
The  indigenous  peoples  of  the  southern  province  of 
our  country  cannot,  therefore,  fulfil  their  obligations 
to  protect  their  culture  and  traditions  that  bind  them 
to  the  sovereign  land  that  has  been  theirs  since  time 
immemorial.
Those  two  islands  are  of  paramount  importance, 
because  they  form  the  basis  for  the  establishment  of 
our unique cultural framework, which brings together 
our cultural island group known as the Tafea Islands. 
It  is  that  cultural  framework  that  governed  us  and 
defined  our  identity  and  our  way  of  life  long  before 
administrative  colonial  Powers  began  to  explore  and 
govern our shores. 
Unfortunately, 
indigenous  peoples 
continue  to  be  denied  access  to  those  sacred  and 
cultural  islands.  My  Government  therefore  calls  on 
the  community  of  nations  meeting  in  the  Assembly 
to uphold the principles of the respect of the rights of 
our indigenous peoples and their way of life. Further, 
we  call  upon  the  French  Government  to  allow  our 
indigenous people of Tafea to have access to the land 
of their forefathers, the islands Umaenupne and Leka in 
the south of the Republic of Vanuatu. 
today,  our 
The  call  by  the  United  Nations  to  review  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
to 
strategize  a  post-2015  development  agenda  compels 
us  to  rethink  our  global  partnership  structures  and 
our  national  priorities  in  order  to  better  achieve  our 
goals  in  the  period  after  2015.  My  country  has  made 
some progress in achieving some of the MDG targets. 
However,  the  appropriate  conditions  for  economic 
growth and development must be created. An integrated 
and  balanced  approach  is  required  to  deal  adequately 
with 
social,  economic  and  environmental 
dimensions. 
the 
To that end, my Government has placed emphasis on 
climate change, renewable energy and the sustainable 
use of the environment. We have now created a separate 
Ministry  focusing  on  adaptation  to  climate  change, 
13-48803
9/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
energy  and  the  environment  so  that  the  Government 
can  address  issues  in  that  area.  We  would  therefore 
welcome  opportunities  for  unconditional  partnerships 
in order to better address those issues. 
It is clear that there has been much debate on the 
issue  of  climate  change.  However,  the  level  to  which 
final  pledges  have  been  met  has  been  unsatisfactory, 
considering  the  fast  pace  at  which  climate  change  is 
having an impact on small island developing States. We 
call for more urgent action and decisions on that front.
While Vanuatu supports the shift in the development 
paradigm, we also recognize that the new development 
agenda might harbour its own shortcomings and must 
therefore be given careful consideration when it comes 
to its final design. It is evident that the new approach 
must take heed of, first, the complexity that still exists 
within international aid programmes for development, 
coupled with the risk of unpredictable financial crises 
that  can  affect  the  delivery  of  aid;  secondly,  the 
challenges  faced  by  countries  at  present  in  attaining 
the  MDGs;  thirdly,  the  ambiguities  and  difficulties 
involved  in  setting  the  priority  of  goals  within  an 
expanded  list  of  priorities;  fourthly,  the  imminent 
graduation of my country from least developed country 
status and the benefits accompanying that change; and 
fifthly, the risk of a reduced level of real aid spending 
per capita affected partly by a failure to increase global 
aid for development.
Aware of those issues, Vanuatu has taken measures, 
partly on its own and with the assistance of its partners, 
to ensure greater resilience to its own vulnerabilities. 
Our plan involves taking decisions that lead to quantum 
leaps in the development of our country’s infrastructure 
in  which  ports,  roads  and  airports  will  be  built  and 
upgraded  to  facilitate,  inter  alia,  the  large-scale 
integration  of  the  rural  population  into  the  national 
economy. 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Governments  of  China, 
Australia and New Zealand and the Asian Development 
Bank  for  their  assistance,  as  well  as  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  for  its  enormous  investment  in 
the  two  major  national  highways  in  Vanuatu.  We  see 
that  as  an  investment  in  the  future  of  my  country, 
where 60 per cent of the population is aged 25 years or 
under, whereby most of the rural population will gain 
greater access to markets and economic opportunities 
throughout the archipelago’s islands.
All  our  development  initiatives  must  be  inclusive 
and  not  ignore  the  poor  and  the  marginalized.  My 
country  has  taken  the  measures  necessary  to  ensure 
gender equality and the empowerment of women. The 
Government’s  measures  include  legislation  amending 
laws  on  sexual  discrimination,  addressing  issues  of 
domestic  violence  and  the  submission  of  universal 
periodic reports to ensure compliance with the reporting 
framework of the Human Rights Council. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  thank  you  once  again, 
Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity to express 
my views in this forum. We have spoken a great deal 
about  many  things,  and  we  now  must  translate  our 
words into action. Long live our aspirations for a better 
and more secure world for everyone!
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Vanuatu for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Moana  Jacques  Kalosil  Carcasses,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Edi Rama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Albania 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania. 
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Albania,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Rama (Albania): I am the newly elected Prime 
Minister of Albania. This is my first month in office. 
It  is  truly  humbling  to  stand  at  this  rostrum  in  the 
steps and the shadows of some of the great figures of 
history who have stood here and shaped our world, in 
this forum, which, for all the criticisms of the United 
Nations, is a living reminder that good must come from 
bad  and  that  the  march  of  progress  through  time  is 
powered  by  debate,  ideas,  cooperation,  argument  and 
agreement.
Albania is no great Power; it is a small country, but 
with great potential. It has outstanding natural beauty 
and good and hard-working people. My challenge is to 
10/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
bring change so that this potential can be fulfilled. It will 
take time. It will take a lot of effort and perseverance. 
It will take understanding and support from friends and 
partners. For my part, I will add leadership. We have a 
long way to go, but it can be done.
I was reading a study recently that analysed every 
country  in  the  world,  measuring  the  positive  and 
negative  media  coverage.  Switzerland  was  at  the  top; 
Albania  was  161st.  In  truth,  people  around  the  world 
may not know that much about Albania, but what they 
think they know is not good. The film industry has not 
been kind to us — Wag The Dog, Taken, Taken 2. Even 
I was a bit scared to be in Albania after that. I hope one 
day Liam Neeson, Dustin Hoffman and Robert De Niro 
can visit and see what a beautiful country it is and feel 
the potential that I feel.
But I am not naive. Our problems are not all based 
in  Hollywood.  Some  are  real  and  damaging,  such  as 
corruption, which scars countries in the way the swish 
of a blade can scar a beautiful face. It deters legitimate 
investors  from  investing.  It  holds  back  progress.  It 
stops people from believing there can ever be fairness. 
Corruption can and must be beaten if we are to build the 
economic rule of law we need, get the investment we 
need and attract the tourism that our scenery, heritage 
and  warm,  welcoming  people  deserve.  It  will  not  be 
easy, but it can be done, and we are fully committed.
The world has changed tremendously in the course 
of  recent  decades,  and  it  is  changing  now  at  an  even 
faster pace. We all expect the United Nations to follow 
suit. United Nations reform is not only necessary; it has 
become imperative. If we fail to agree and act on that, 
the role which the United Nations is to play will remain 
incomplete.
One  of  the  important  aspects  of  change  is  the 
ongoing  reform  of 
the  delivery  of  development 
assistance.  In  the  course  of  a  few  years,  delivering 
as  one  has  proved  to  be  a  valuable  achievement,  and 
it represents today an avenue for deeper reform. If we 
want more effectiveness, better efficiency and coherent 
action by various United Nations actors and if we aim 
for  better  results  on  the  ground  and  better  value  for 
our money, delivering as one is the way to go. We have 
pledged our support and will continue to do so as we 
are convinced that is the right path.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  United  Nations  is  beyond  any  doubt  one  of 
the  most  important  world  bodies.  We  joined  it  in  the 
middle of the past century. But it is not alone; for us, 
the  European  Union  (EU),  which  represents  the  most 
important political project the world has known to date, 
is another. We aspire to join it. We know the changes 
we have to make, and I am determined to make them.
If  the  EU  has  turned  its  attention  towards  our 
region,  particularly  due  to  past  conflicts,  together 
we  —  Albanians,  Serbs,  Montenegrins,  Bosnians, 
Macedonians  and  all  the  other  peoples  of  the  region 
who have already joined the European Union — should 
maintain our eyes and our focus on the EU for projects 
related  to  our  development  for  a  better  and  more 
prosperous common future. 
Regional  cooperation  that  is  not  grounded  in 
strategic  projects  serving  the  economic  revival  of  all 
our  countries  in  the  process  of  integration  into  the 
European Union as a developed economic area would 
be completely ineffective. We have neither the time nor 
the  luxury  to  engage  in  time-consuming,  ineffective 
projects.  No  country  of  the  region  can  afford  such  a 
luxury. Consequently, we should create new momentum 
in  regional  cooperation  by  effectively  combining  the 
objectives of the South East Europe 2020 strategy with 
the  projects  of  the  Europe  2020  agenda.  We  should 
not  forget  that  successful  regional  cooperation  has  a 
direct  effect  on  meeting  economic  accession  criteria. 
Undoubtedly, meeting such criteria through intense and 
fruitful  regional  cooperation  is  neither  an  easy  nor  a 
simple task.
My vision for Albania is also a vision of the Balkans 
working together, in defiance of our history of so much 
war and conflict, although — let us say it loudly and 
proudly — these are past wars and past conflicts. I want 
to share my conviction that the remarkable agreement 
between  Kosovo  and  Serbia  launched  a  new  era  in 
South-East  Europe.  Their  dialogue,  which  was  an  act 
of  courage  and  wisdom  on  the  part  of  both  Kosovo 
and  Serbia,  with  much-appreciated  facilitation  by  the 
European Union, challenges every country of the region 
to mobilize its efforts in new and innovative forms of 
collaboration and cooperation. 
Not everything is easy or perfect. There are still a 
few here and there who continue to think in the past. But 
the prevailing truth is that Prime Ministers Thaçi and 
Dačić have shouldered their leadership responsibility to 
bring their countries into the future they both deserve. 
13-48803
11/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
More  than  anything,  in  a  world  interconnected  and 
interdependent  like  never  before,  where  space  and 
relationships are related and recreated in continuity, it 
is crucial to live in the new time without prolonging the 
old one of conflicts and nationalism.
In this regard, Albania is committed to peace and 
prosperity  in  the  region.  This  is  why  it  is  committed 
to  the  irreversible  independence  of  Kosovo,  which  is 
already recognized by 104 Member States. This is why 
it calls upon all countries that have not yet recognized 
Kosovo to do so. They will not only help Kosovo and 
its people, but they will join those who, by recognizing 
Kosovo, have played an important role in strengthening 
security and stability in South-East Europe.
To  those  who  are  sceptical,  I  say  that  the  people 
of  Kosovo,  like  all  the  other  peoples  that  now  enjoy 
fully  recognized,  independent  republics  following 
the  dissolution  of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  deserve  the 
recognition  of  their  sovereignty,  particularly  as  they 
have demonstrated, more than any other people in the 
region, their indisputable commitment to human rights, 
minority  rights,  dialogue  and  peace.  Without  this 
commitment, it would be very difficult for our region 
to make progress towards integration into the European 
Union.  But  their  commitment  is  obvious  and  firm, 
and  the  region  has  been  making  remarkable  progress 
towards  its  most  important  goal  —  integration  into 
the European Union. Croatia has joined the European 
Union. We are waiting in the queue, as are Serbia and 
Kosovo.
I have no doubt that, provided that each and every 
country  of  the  region  replaces  the  politics  of  division 
with the politics of cooperation, and provided that we 
build  shared  values,  beliefs  and  policies  instead  of 
clinging  to  ancient  enmities,  we  can  show  how  much 
we  have  changed  and  how  quickly  we  can  make  the 
further  changes  needed  to  take  our  place  alongside 
others  in  the  modern  European  family  of  nations.  It 
will  undoubtedly  take  time  and  perseverance.  It  will 
take the understanding and support of European Union 
member States. It will take leadership on the part of us 
all, and as past practice and successful examples show, 
it can be done.
This  is  a  very  serious  commitment,  and  I  would 
like to state here that it is our firm intention to explore 
every  possibility  to  initiate  a  constructive  debate, 
develop a real dialogue and foster close cooperation in 
every possible  aspect with each  and  every country of 
the region, including, notably, Serbia. Let the Balkans, 
which have been known so long for war and bloodshed, 
now be known for changing its ways and thereby change 
the world for the better.
I wish that, in this statement of hope, I could avoid 
having to speak about one of the most terrible human 
tragedies of our times, which has been unfolding before 
our eyes for two and a half years now. It has taken more 
than  100,000  human  lives.  It  is  destroying  an  entire 
generation  and  has  brought  a  country  to  ruin.  The 
recent large-scale use of chemical weapons constitutes 
a  despicable  crime  against  humanity  that  should  not 
and must not remain unpunished.
Yet  even  within  such  a  bleak  picture,  there  has 
been  a  glimpse  of  hope.  Yesterday,  the  Security 
Council finally adopted resolution 2118 (2013), on the 
removal and destruction of chemical weapons in Syria, 
which  we  welcome.  It  must  now  be  quickly  and  fully 
implemented. 
As I walked to this rostrum, I felt the extraordinary 
sense of responsibility that the leadership of a country 
implies. I felt the power of the historic forces pulsating 
in  this  building.  I  felt  the  new  world  it  has  shaped, 
the  challenges  it  has  met,  the  challenges  it  has  failed 
to  meet  and  the  challenges  we,  the  family  of  nations, 
struggle to meet today in this ever more interdependent 
and complicated world.
I  ran  for  office  on  the  theme  of  renaissance,  but 
we all know that words spoken while campaigning are 
the easy part. What is hard is turning those words into 
deeds, actions, policies and projects that deliver change. 
I  am  confident,  but  I  am  humble  enough  to  know  I 
cannot do it alone. I have much to learn, and the United 
Nations is one of those places where one always finds 
people, individuals, groups and Governments who can 
teach with experience and lead by example. 
We  need  support.  We  need  partners  and  friends 
willing to be part of our journey for change. Renaissance 
means  a  new  Albania.  Building  the  renaissance  is 
the  challenge  we  face.  It  will  take  time.  It  will  take 
perseverance. It will take the understanding and support 
of  partners  and  friends.  It  will  also  take  leadership, 
which I am committed to. But I know it can be done.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Albania for the statement he has just made.
12/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President: I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit, 
Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): I  should  like 
to begin by congratulating the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  Ambassador 
John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda.  We  are  fully 
convinced  that  he  will  be  a  manifest  example  of  how 
small States can shoulder the responsibilities deriving 
from participating in the international community. It is 
both an honour and a great responsibility to address the 
Assembly on behalf of the people and the Government 
of the Principality of Andorra. It is doubly an honour as 
we are celebrating 20 years since our country became a 
Member of the United Nations.
In 1993, with the approval of the Constitution and 
our entry into the United Nations, Andorra’s 700-year 
reality as a sovereign, democratic country that had no 
army  and  had  remained  neutral  —  few  countries  can 
make  such  a  claim  —  in  the  heart  of  the  Pyrenees 
was  formally  recognized.  The  visit  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  our  country  in  April  on  the  occasion  of 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  our  Constitution  served 
to  reiterate  once  again  Andorra’s  commitment  to  the 
principles  and  values  of  the  United  Nations.  Those 
principles  and  values  must  not  remain  mere  high-
sounding declarations and founding charters, but must 
be  translated  into  greater  effectiveness  in  improving 
people’s lives. 
It is particularly worth noting the emphasis that the 
United  Nations  has  placed  on  development  in  recent 
years.  I  refer  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
adopted in 2000, which are to be assessed definitively in 
two years’ time. It was particularly relevant to directly 
link the main principles of peace, democracy and the 
negotiated  resolution  of  conflicts  and  human  rights 
with  more  specific  matters  of  extreme  importance, 
such as the eradication of poverty and hunger, universal 
primary education and the sustainability and protection 
of the environment.
At this session of the General Assembly, we have 
discussed and we will continue to discuss the definition 
of new goals to be introduced after 2015. However, we 
must  not  forget  that  all  reports  indicate  that  we  shall 
reach  that  date  without  having  accomplished  most  of 
the Goals set in 2000. Over the past 13 years we have 
advanced  very  little  with  respect  to  the  sustainability 
and  protection  of  the  environment.  Child  mortality 
continues  to  increase  in  the  poorest  regions  and 
countries.  Achieving  universal  primary  education 
by  2015  is  totally  unviable,  and  progress  towards 
preventing  and  treating  AIDS  in  the  poorer  countries 
remains  inadequate.  A  great  deal  of  work  remains  to 
be done.
It  would  not,  however,  be  fair  to  emphasize  only 
what  we  have  not  done  and  to  forget  all  the  progress 
that has been achieved in other areas. Since 2000, the 
proportion  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  has 
been halved. The share of the world’s population with 
access to safe drinking water rose from 76 per cent in 
1990 to 89 per cent in 2010. Notable progress has been 
achieved in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, 
and the goal of reducing hunger by 50 per cent in 2015 
would appear to be achievable, which would be a great 
success. Andorra applauds the decision to conjoin the 
United Nations main principles with specific objectives 
to solve the great problems faced by humankind. 
We  must  not  give  the  impression  that  we  are  just 
a  group  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  who  have 
met in a First World city, full of fine words and good 
intentions, but completely ineffective when it comes to 
solving the problems threatening the lives and dignity 
of millions of people all over the world. Unfortunately, 
that  is  the  image  that  we  have  at  times  projected  to 
the  international  community.  That  is  why  I  said  that 
we applaud the fact that specific objectives have been 
set,  that  we  evaluate  progress  towards  meeting  them 
and  that  we  come  here  to  explain  that  progress  and 
shortcomings. 
I  hope  the  goals  of  the  post-2015  agenda  will  be 
even more ambitious and that we will be able to dedicate 
even  more  effort  to  realizing  them.  That  is  because 
13-48803
13/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
the citizens of the world need to know that those who 
proclaim  the  expansion  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law  are  the  same  people  who  have  striven  to  reduce 
poverty,  hunger  and  child  mortality  and  to  promote 
gender equality and universal education, which are so 
important. Otherwise, we will run the risk of citizens 
perceiving their institutions and the United Nations as 
being  far  removed  from  their  everyday  lives  and  real 
problems. Even more seriously, we would run the risk 
of  words  such  as  “democracy”,  “human  rights”  and 
“international law” becoming meaningless.
A  year  ago,  on  the  occasion  of  the  sixty-seventh 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  condemned  and 
repudiated the Benghazi attack. Today, one year later, 
we  must  all  feel  that  we  are  citizens  of  Nairobi.  We 
must  stand  with  those  who  condemn  terrorism  and 
defend  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  A  year 
ago we used this platform to express our deep concern 
about the civil war in Syria, in particular the conflict’s 
devastating effects on the Syrian population. We said 
then that the conflict was creating a terrible dilemma 
for  the  international  community  —  that  of  finding 
the right balance between a diplomatic resolution and 
respect for the rule of law. 
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  against  civilians, 
which  we  condemn  and  which  is  contrary  to  all  the 
values  that  the  General  Assembly  upholds,  places  the 
international  community  in  a  scenario  that  requires 
firm  and  strong  answers.  The  strong  reaction  to  the 
situation  led  by  the  United  States  and  France,  along 
with  the  pragmatic  attitude  of  Russia,  has  generated 
the  momentum  to  advance  in  the  search  for  that  fair 
balance. 
First  is  the  issue  of  reaching  agreement  on  the 
evidence  and  destruction  of  such  chemical  weapons; 
second is the issue of taking advantage of this dynamic 
in order to make greater diplomatic efforts to achieve a 
peaceful solution to the conflict. That will require new 
steps towards furthering the Geneva process. Nor must 
we  forget  the  humanitarian  dimension  of  the  Syrian 
conflict, which is not only a priority but a terrible loss 
and a cruel emergency. 
and the desire of Israelis to obtain assurances for their 
existence, safety and security.
Each  and  every  time  we  are  unable  to  resolve  a 
conflict, we are jeopardizing the principles and values 
that  are  most  valued  by  the  international  community: 
peace, security, dialogue, human rights and democracy. 
It  is  not  always  easy  for  the  international  community 
to find a fair and effective way of responding, perhaps 
because we are responding to the problems rather than 
preventing  them.  Therefore,  I  would  like  to  return  to 
what I said at the beginning of my speech. We cannot 
allow  the  principles  and  values  of  the  United  Nations 
to  be  relegated  to  high-flown  declarations  that  have 
no positive impact on people’s lives. Peace, the rule of 
law and democracy must be accompanied by effective 
respect for human rights and a substantial improvement 
in  the  living  conditions  of  people,  which  means  less 
poverty, less hunger, more education and more gender 
equality.  An  ambitious  development  agenda  that  is 
implemented effectively is the best way of preventing 
conflicts and ensuring peace and security.
Early  in  my  statement,  in  recalling  Andorra’s 
admission  into  the  United  Nations  20  years  ago,  I 
referred  to  the  more  than  seven  centuries  of  peace 
in  our  country,  which  is  a  relevant  point  to  make  at 
an  event  such  as  this.  I  am  sure  that  other  Andorran 
representatives have raised this point. We are proud of 
our country’s peaceful history, but we are also keenly 
aware that Andorra, a small State, would probably not 
have enjoyed more than 700 years of peace had there 
been any great inequalities among its inhabitants, had 
the laws not been fair or had tyranny reigned instead 
of a parliamentary regime, since there cannot be peace 
without justice in Andorra or anywhere else. 
All  of  us  who  are  here  today,  all  of  us  who  have 
spoken  from  this  rostrum  this  week,  are  obligated  to 
ensure peace and justice, democracy and development, 
human rights and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. 
All  the  principles  and  values  to  which  we  are  firmly 
committed must always go hand in hand. It is a long and 
difficult path, but it is the only way in which a better 
world can possibly come about. 
The resumption of negotiations between Palestinians 
and  Israelis  can  also  be  included  in  the  dynamic 
of  our  quest  for  the  right  balance,  based  on  a  two-
State-solution,  between  the  legitimate  demand  of  the 
Palestinian people for a peaceful and democratic State 
Referring  to  what  President  Obama  said  a  few 
days ago (see A/68/PV.5), it is obvious that we live in 
a world of imperfect choices. This difficulty must not 
be used as an excuse for our failure to act. As President 
Hollande stated from this very rostrum (see A/68/PV.5), 
14/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
the United Nations has a responsibility to act, and the 
worst decision is to take no action at all. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of Government of 
the Principality of Andorra for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the Principality of Andorra, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji 
Abdul Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin 
Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak,  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Razak: Allow me to begin by congratulating 
the President of the General Assembly on his election.  
I offer him Malaysia’s full cooperation and support as 
he seeks to further the cause of peace and prosperity.
Three years ago, I stood before the General Assembly 
and  called  for  a  global  movement  of  moderates  (see 
A/65/PV.19). It was a call to reject extremism in all its 
forms, because the real divide is not between East and 
West or between the developed and developing worlds 
or between Muslims, Christians and Jews. It is between 
moderates and extremists of all religions. 
Much  has  changed  since  2010,  when  a  current  of 
protest and reform surged through the Middle East and 
North Africa. Out of the heat of the Arab Spring, new 
questions  arose  about  the  pace  of  democratic  change, 
the  role  of  Islam  in  politics,  and  the  need  for  more 
inclusive development. 
But  the  search  for  answers  to  those  questions 
has  been  put  on  hold.  As  authoritarian  regimes  have 
fallen,  and  Governments  have  been  swept  away  by 
political change, extremists have tried to fill that space. 
Motivated by ideology, politics and religion, they have 
sought  refuge  from  the  hard  work  of  development  in 
the unholy practice of violence. Conflicts have spilled 
across borders, inflaming old tensions and igniting new 
ones.  All  over  the  world,  extremism  is  claiming  lives 
and crushing opportunity. This affects all of us, but it 
is one people of one faith who suffer the most. I believe 
the greatest threat to Muslims today comes not from the 
outside world, but from within.
The  conflict  between  Sunni  and  Shia  threatens 
the lives and livelihoods of millions of Muslims. Our 
religion,  which  was  founded  on  peace  and  premised 
on tolerance, is now being twisted by extremists who 
are  deploying  false  arguments  to  foster  division  and 
justify  violence.  Across  the  Islamic  world,  extremists 
are wrapping their perverse agenda in religious cloth, 
tearing families, countries and the Ummah apart. With 
each new atrocity, tensions are wound tighter and peace 
seems further away.
The  corrosive  influence  of  extremism  cannot  be 
countered  easily,  but  we  are  not  too  powerless  to  act. 
I  believe  that  moderation  in  religion  and  the  political 
process can stem the loss of life and liberty in the Muslim 
world.  Behind  the  tragic  violence,  there  is  a  battle 
being waged for the future of Islam. By reaffirming our 
commitment  to  moderation  and  solving  the  political 
problems  that  drive  instability,  we  can  seize  back  the 
centre ground. We can marginalize the extremists and 
advance an agenda for peace, harmony and justice.
Around the world, Muslims have watched in despair 
as conflict tears into some of our oldest communities. 
Rarely  in  our  history  has  the  Ummah  faced  violence 
on this scale. Right now, the world’s attention is rightly 
focused  on  Syria.  United  Nations  investigators  have 
concluded  that  the  focus  of  the  war  has  shifted  along 
ethnic and religious lines and become overtly sectarian. 
A  conflict  that  began  with  anti-Government  protests 
threatens to descend into a war of ethnic cleansing.
With fighters from Hizbullah engaging on Syrian 
soil,  the  conflict  now  threatens  Lebanon,  too.  Last 
month,  after  car  bombs  killed  dozens  in  Beirut,  42 
people  died  in  explosions  outside  Sunni  mosques. 
Communities  are  dividing  along  religious  lines,  with 
hard-line preachers urging violence between Sunni and 
Shia. 
Meanwhile, the security situation in Iraq continues 
to unravel, as Sunni extremist groups and Shia militia 
struggle for control. Over the past four months, nearly 
3,000 people have been killed. In the past week alone, 
three funerals have been bombed in Baghdad. Women 
and  children  have  been  blown  apart  while  mourning. 
Again,  the  violence  is  carried  out  between  Sunni 
13-48803
15/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
and  Shia.  In  one  Iraqi  town,  four  children  from  one 
Shia  family  were  slain  with  knives.  In  another,  local 
people — neighbours for generations — have built blast 
walls  to  keep  themselves  apart.  Forced  displacements 
are growing.
In  Pakistan,  bombings  have  wrecked  the  city  of 
Quetta,  killing  hundreds.  Revenge  attacks  spread  to 
Lahore  and  bombs  have  been  detonated  in  Karachi. 
In  August,  militants  ambushed  buses,  dividing  the 
passengers  according  to  belief.  Those  who  answered 
incorrectly were executed.
Each of these conflicts has a distinct cause, but they 
follow a darkly familiar path: emboldened by political 
failures, radical preachers and militant groups turn civil 
conflicts into wider religious wars. Yet the preaching of 
such violence is completely counter to the Islamic faith. 
The Holy Koran not only condemns suicide, unjust war 
and retribution by force; it also makes clear the Prophet’s 
desire for Muslims to live in peace with one another and 
their neighbours. It says “And if they incline to peace, 
then incline to it and rely upon Allah” (The Holy Koran, 
VIII:61) and that “whoever kills a soul, unless for a soul 
or for corruption in the land — it is as if he had slain 
mankind entirely” (ibid., V:32). It also holds that “there 
shall be no compulsion in religion” (ibid., II:256).
It  should  come  as  no  surprise  that  there  is  no 
scriptural  basis  for  the  atrocities  being  committed  in 
the name of Islam. Under the six higher objectives of 
Islamic law, the first and foremost is the protection and 
preservation of life. Yet even during Ramadan, our holy 
month, when contemplation, devotion and compassion 
reign uppermost in Muslim minds, the extremists would 
not stop. More than 4,400 people died this Ramadan in 
Syria, 371 in Iraq and 120 in Pakistan. This is a burden 
we  can  no  longer  afford  to  bear.  It  is  time  to  end  the 
killing; it is time to concentrate instead on building a 
common agenda for peace and prosperity.
There  are  two  things  we  can  do.  First  of  all,  I 
believe that peace-loving Muslims — the overwhelming 
majority  of  Muslims  —  should  unite  against  the 
extremists who use our religion as an excuse to commit 
violence. And one of the most powerful tools we have 
to do so is al-wasatiyyah — the practice of moderation. 
The  Holy  Koran  says  that  “we  have  made  you  into  a 
community that is justly balanced” (ibid., II:143). This 
concept  of  balance  and  moderation,  of  social  justice 
within our faith, is a central tenet of Islam. It asks of us 
that we hold to the principles displayed by the Prophet 
Muhammad in the Medina Charter.
Our  task  therefore  is  to  reclaim  our  faith  by 
articulating clearly the true nature of Islam as a religion 
of  peace,  moderation  and  tolerance.  We  should  speak 
that message clearly so that all may hear it and stand firm 
against  the  minority  who  use  Islam  to  further  violent 
and unjust ends. We should not mistake moderation for 
weakness.  To  face  those  baying  for  violence  and  call 
instead for calm is a sign not of frailty, but of strength. 
Muslim  leaders  should  speak  up  and  condemn  such 
violence, lest their silence be mistaken for acceptance.
Moderation can be practiced at the national level, 
as  it  is  in  Malaysia,  by  choosing  mutual  respect  and 
inclusivity  and  strengthening 
the  bonds  between 
different  communities  and 
faiths.  All  countries 
should  reinforce  their  commitment  to  the  principles 
of moderation, not just in religion, but for sustainable 
development and stable economic growth.
Moderation  can  also  direct  regional  policy.  It  sits 
at the heart of Malaysia’s efforts to bring peace to the 
southern  Philippines  and  to  Thailand’s  restive  South. 
The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  which 
endorsed the Global Movement of Moderates, has made 
a commitment to the peaceful settlement and non-use 
of force in territorial disputes. 
At  the  international  level,  moderation  can  guide 
our  approach  to  the  great  global  challenges  of  our 
age:  violent  extremism,  sustainable  development  and 
equitable growth.
Secondly,  we  should  give  our  all  to  resolve  the 
political  problems  that  raise  tensions  in  the  Muslim 
world, starting with Syria. We cannot underline strongly 
enough  the  need  for  a  Syrian-led  inclusive  political 
process.  Malaysia  is  against  any  unilateral  action  to 
resolve  the  conflict.  All  sides  must  come  together  to 
work out a political settlement. We welcome the recent 
United  States-Russia  framework  agreement,  condemn 
without reservation the use of chemical weapons, and 
call  on  the  international  community  to  intensify  its 
efforts  to  explore  all  possible  diplomatic  options  for 
peace under the auspices of the United Nations.
We must also find the vision and political will to 
commit  to  a  just  solution  for  Palestine.  We  fervently 
hope that progress towards a viable Palestinian State, 
based  on  pre-1967  borders  and  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital, will be made, and that the United States 
16/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
and other members of the Quartet will continue to play 
their role as honest brokers in the process. Only with 
peace  can  there  be  development  and  dignity  for  the 
Palestinian people.
Finally,  we  should  continue  to  focus  on  building 
stronger  and  more  prosperous  societies  predicated  on 
the rule of law and the practice of democracy. The Arab 
Spring showed that the Muslim world is crying out for 
change. Governments must answer that call. We must 
provide  good  governance  to  fight  corruption,  create 
jobs to tackle poverty, and deliver sustainable growth 
that builds a world of opportunity for our citizens. We 
must create economies in which people can fulfil their 
own aspirations, not those of extremists.
By  acting  to  solve  our  most  difficult  political 
problems,  we  can  bring  an  end  to  the  immediate 
suffering in Syria, in Palestine and in the wider world. 
By  committing  to  the  cause  of  moderation,  Muslims 
can secure something even greater. We can reclaim our 
religion, choosing harmony and acceptance over division 
and conflict, and we can broadcast a vision of Islam as 
it is understood by Muslims around the world — as a 
religion of peace, tolerance and moderation.
Last month, when militants attacked those buses in 
Pakistan,  a  19  year-old  Sunni  student  named  Ghulam 
Mustafa  stood  up  for  such  a  vision.  Confronting  the 
Sunni  gunmen,  he  said  killing  Shiites  was  wrong. 
Ghulam was shot dead, but his life was not lost in vain. 
With guns to their heads, the Sunnis on the bus refused to 
identify the Shia passengers whom the gunmen wanted 
to  kill.  In  their  defiance,  we  see  the  true  measure  of 
courage and the true test of faith. Under unimaginable 
pressure, facing the greatest possible threat, they chose 
to  stand  with  their  brothers  and  sisters.  They  chose 
unity over division. Faced with unimaginable pressure, 
and the greatest possible threat, we must summon the 
will to do the same.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia for the statement he has just made.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime Minister of Malaysia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Khil Raj Regmi, Chairman 
of the Council of Ministers of the Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal.
Mr.  Khil  Raj  Regmi,  Chairman  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of 
Nepal, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Khil  Raj  Regmi, 
Chairman  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  Federal 
Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Regmi (Nepal): Allow me to congratulate the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  his  election  to 
serve during the sixty-eighth session of the Assembly. I 
repose full confidence in him to steer the deliberations 
of the Assembly to a fruitful conclusion, and I assure 
him  of  our  full  cooperation  in  the  discharge  of  his 
important responsibilities.
I take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks 
to the outgoing President, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for having 
successfully  presided  over  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh  session.  I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
able and visionary leadership and excellent reports on 
issues before the Assembly.
I bring with me a message of peace and non-violence 
from Lumbini, the birthplace of Gautama Buddha, the 
apostle  of  peace,  and  the  greetings  and  best  wishes 
of  the  Government  and  people  of  Nepal.  Nepal  has 
unflinching  faith  in  the  principles  and  purposes  of 
the United Nations as enshrined in its Charter. Nepal 
upholds  the  centrality  and  indispensability  of  the 
United  Nations  in  forging  global  peace  and  security, 
development and human freedom, as well as its role in 
the promotion of multilateralism, befitting the needs of 
our age.
It is an irony that one eighth of the world population 
has to live without enough food at a time when 150 per 
cent of the Earth’s annual regenerative capacity is being 
consumed, and that nearly 1 billion people will still be 
forced to live in extreme poverty in 2015. Looking at 
this unfair and unjust scenario, one can hardly envision 
global  sustainability  without  a  system  of  economic 
growth and development that ensures the progress and 
13-48803
17/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
well-being  of  people  on  this  planet  in  an  equitable, 
inclusive and judicious manner. We can hardly realize 
sustainable  development  when  pervasive  poverty, 
unsustainable  consumption  and  production  patterns, 
and  spiralling  environmental  degradation  are  allowed 
to continue.
Nepal  is  the  fifth  most  vulnerable  country  in  terms 
of  climate  change  risks.  The  risk  of  multiple  disaster 
in  overwhelming  proportions  and 
increased 
vulnerability we have to face also threaten our fragile 
mountain ecosystem and fabulous diversity, as well as 
lives, livelihoods and heritage in Nepal.
the 
importance 
to 
Nepal  attaches  great 
the  full 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  At 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development, our countries demonstrated 
the  wisdom  to  take  the  MDGs  forward  with  greater 
vigour 
through  universally  applicable  sustainable 
development goals. The report of the High-level Panel 
of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development 
Agenda  reminds  us  that  there  is  a  need  to  build  on 
the  foundations  of  the  MDGs,  leaving  no  one  behind 
in  global  development  efforts.  Clearly,  any  new 
development agenda that does not keep the elimination 
of  extreme  poverty  at  centre  stage  loses  the  spirit  of 
sustainability. I therefore call upon all Member States 
to direct concerted efforts to completing the unfinished 
tasks  of  the  MDGs  before  embarking  on  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  and  any  subsequent  sustainable 
development goals.
The  High-level  Panel  has  set  forth  a  vision  for 
shaping  a  common  destiny  for  the  global  community 
through  inclusive  economic  growth,  human  progress 
and  sustainable  development.  That  collective  vision 
needs  to  be  translated  into  concrete  action  with 
deliverable  goals  and  targets  that  can  be  measured 
globally and locally, based on the Rio principles.
We  underscore  the  need  to  breathe  life  into  the 
post-2015  development  framework  with  the  principles 
of  universal  human  rights,  equity  and  sustainability. 
To  that  end,  we  should  take  into  account  its  global 
applicability,  on  the  one  hand,  and  regional,  national 
and  subnational  circumstances  and  priorities,  on  the 
other.  We  believe  that  all  processes  relating  to  the 
sustainable  development  goals  should  reconcile  these 
fundamental aspects, especially in the interests of the 
poor and marginalized countries and societies. Nepal is 
constructively engaged in mainstreaming the concerns 
of  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  into  the  new 
global development agenda.
We  welcome  the  understanding  reached  in  Doha 
by  the  Member  States  on  a  firm  timetable  to  adopt  a 
universal  climate  agreement,  during  the  eighteenth 
session of the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change. We call on all for an early conclusion 
to climate change negotiations, with binding emission 
commitments  and  guaranteed,  enhanced,  predictable 
and easily accessible financing for the most vulnerable 
countries,  such  as  Nepal,  to  enable  their  speedy 
implementation  of  suitable  adaptation  and  mitigation 
measures.
Least  developed  countries  face  severe  structural 
constraints  and  multiple  vulnerabilities,  and  are 
the  furthest  off  track  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed-
on  development  targets.  The  Istanbul  Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the 
Decade  2011-2010  (A/CONF.219/3/Rev.1)  has  outlined 
eight  priority  areas  to  be  implemented  in  order  to 
overcome  those  constraints  and  enable  half  of  the 
LDCs  to  graduate  from  that  status  by  the  year  2020. 
However, in order to achieve that urgent but ambitious 
goal, external and internal enabling environments must 
be created through synergistic efforts on the part of the 
LDCs and their development partners. Integrating the 
Programme of Action’s priorities into all our relevant 
plans  and  programmes  and  the  ongoing  post-2015 
development discourse in the United Nations is a must 
to that end.
Nepal  has  set  itself  the  goal  of  graduating  from 
LDC status by 2022. The Government is committed to 
pursuing that goal by mainstreaming the internationally 
defined  priority  areas.  I  ask  for  genuine  partnerships 
and  enhanced  cooperation  in  efforts  towards  a  full, 
effective  and  speedy  implementation  of  the  Istanbul 
Programme of Action and other internationally agreed-
on development goals, with sufficient and predictable 
funding mechanisms for our goal to become a reality. 
While no country is immune to the ominous effects of 
climate change, countries like Nepal disproportionately 
have  to  bear  the  brunt,  in  stark  contrast  to  their 
negligible  contribution  to  greenhouse-gas  emissions. 
Nepal’s ability to benefit from trade-induced growth 
is constrained by the structural problem posed by the 
high  transit-transport  costs  that  its  landlocked  nature 
imposes. Our remoteness from markets, marginalization 
18/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
and  lack  of  integration  into  regional  and  global  value 
chains  all  limit  the  competitiveness  of  our  trade  and 
our attractiveness as an investment destination. Despite 
the tremendous advances in technology and innovation 
that global trade has benefited from, Nepal has yet to 
catch up with that trend, owing to its lack of the basic 
transport and trade infrastructure that facilitates trade. 
We  look  forward  to  the  10-year  review  process 
of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action:  Addressing  the 
Special  Needs  of  Landlocked  Developing  Countries 
within a New Global Framework for Transit Transport 
Cooperation  for  Landlocked  and  Transit  Developing 
Countries,  and  to  forging  a  successor  plan  of  action 
capable of addressing landlocked developing countries’ 
specific concerns and development aspirations.
LDCs  are  still  waiting  for  results  from  the  Doha 
Development  Round  and  the  full  implementation  of 
the  decisions  of  the  Sixth  Ministerial  Conference  of 
the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  in  Hong  Kong 
and  subsequent  meetings.  Forty-nine  LDCs  represent 
less than 1 per cent of world trade. The recent Fourth 
Global Review of Aid for Trade further confirmed its 
capacity  to  deliver  and  noted  that  together  with  the 
Enhanced Integrated Framework as a vehicle, it helps 
to address supply-side constraints, enhance productive 
capacity  and  promote  economic  diversification.  We 
will participate in the ninth Ministerial Conference of 
the  WTO  in  Bali  in  December,  with  the  expectation 
that  LDCs’  core  issues  —  the  full  implementation  of 
the  duty-  and  quota-free  provision,  the  adoption  of 
simple and flexible preferential rules of origin and the 
operationalization of a service waiver for LDCs — will 
be addressed effectively.
The  structural  deficiency  and  democratic  deficit 
of  globalization  must  be  addressed  by  making  it 
more  inclusive  and  responsive  to  the  needs  of  poor 
and  marginalized  people  around  the  world.  More 
attention  must  be  given  to  international  migration 
and  its  potential  contribution  to  the  development  of 
countries  of  destination  and  origin,  and  to  ensure 
that  globalization  is  also  fair  to  the  bottom  billion  of 
the  South.  International  migration  is  a  cross-cutting 
developmental issue of common concern. 
Migration  is  significant  all  over  the  world,  but 
more  so  in  countries  like  Nepal,  where  nearly  1,500 
people leave for foreign employment every day. While 
remittances  constitute  nearly  25  per  cent  of  Nepal’s 
gross domestic product, Nepalese migrant workers fill 
labour-market gaps and contribute significantly to the 
well-being of the people and the economic development 
of their destination countries. It is extremely important 
to  keep  human  values  and  dignity  at  the  centre  of 
administration and governance related to migration. It 
is also essential to define the roles and responsibilities 
of countries of origin, transit and destination in order to 
ensure the basic rights of migrant populations and show 
respect for their contribution to development.
North-South, South-South and triangular types of 
cooperation  are  becoming  more  significant  than  ever 
before  for  forging  an  inclusive  development  agenda 
and  ensuring  that  equality  and  justice  prevail  in 
the  world.  It  is  vital  that  the  North  make  good  on  its 
commitments  for  resources  to  the  developing  South. 
Likewise, South-South cooperation should be promoted 
by  sharing  development  experience  and  transferring 
technology,  and  by  exploiting  latent  synergies  and 
complementarities in developing and integrating trade, 
investment and infrastructure facilities.
We  uphold  the  view,  close  to  the  ideals  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), that an environment of 
lasting peace and security, conducive to people-centric 
development, can be created only through strengthened 
multilateralism.  As  a  distinct  multilateral  forum  and 
moral  voice  of  the  developing  world,  NAM  has  a 
greater role to play in fostering international peace and 
security at the United Nations and beyond. We believe 
that  NAM  should  pursue  the  issues  of  reforming  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions, 
which  shape  global  social  and  economic  policies  in 
general,  and  financial  architecture  in  particular,  in 
order  to  make  them  more  inclusive  and  responsive  to 
the needs of the developing world.
Nepal  reiterates  its  call  for  the  general  and 
complete  disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  —  biological,  chemical,  radiological  and 
nuclear  —  in  a  time-bound  manner.  Our  efforts  to 
achieve the goal of total nuclear disarmament must be 
matched by efforts to achieve the non-proliferation of 
other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  As  host  this  year 
to  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Peace  and 
Disarmament for Asia and the Pacific in Kathmandu, 
we  stand  for  strengthening  regional  initiatives  for 
peace through dialogue, education and awareness, and 
for  subsequent  confidence-building  measures.  Nepal 
supports  establishing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones, 
keeping outer space free of weapons and keeping small 
arms and light weapons out of the reach of illicit hands. 
13-48803
19/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
The Arms Trade Treaty is a landmark achievement of 
this year.
Nepal  unequivocally  condemns  terrorism  in  all 
its  forms  and  manifestations  perpetrated  anywhere 
in  the  world  under  any  pretext.  Our  hearts  go  out  to 
the  victims  of  terrorism,  most  recently  in  Kenya  and 
in  Pakistan,  which  only  strengthens  our  resolve  to 
fight the menace. We call for the early conclusion of a 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism to 
fight that heinous crime against humanity.
As  a  country  emerging  from  conflict,  Nepal 
underscores  the  importance  of  addressing  issues  of 
exclusion,  discrimination,  inequity,  corruption  and 
the violation of human rights, and it also supports the 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and  
international levels.
Nepal  is  concerned  about  the  long,  drawn-out 
peace  process  in  the  Middle  East.  We  are  overdue  in 
fulfilling our commitment to a comprehensive, lasting 
and  judicious  solution  to  the  problem.  We  support 
the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  an 
independent  and  sovereign  Palestine  State,  based  on 
United Nations resolutions and a solution that enables 
Israel and Palestine to live as neighbours within secure 
and recognized international boundaries.
The  situation  in  Syria  is  of  serious  concern  to  us 
all, due mainly to the violent conflict and its attendant 
large-scale  humanitarian  tragedy.  We  believe  the 
international  community  should  facilitate  the  easing 
of  tensions  and  confrontation  through  diplomacy  and 
dialogue  towards  a  peaceful  and  durable  political 
solution.  We  condemn  the  recent  use  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria  and  call  for  the  total  destruction  of 
chemical-weapons stockpiles in all parts of the world.
I reiterate my country’s principled position that the 
protracted embargo on Cuba is unjustified and needs to 
be ended immediately and unconditionally.
Nepal supports the early and peaceful unification of 
the Korean peninsula through dialogue and negotiations 
based on the will of the Korean people.
Needless  to  say,  making  women  partners  in  all 
efforts  for  peace,  security  and  development  at  all 
levels,  treating  them  equally  without  discrimination, 
and  ensuring  the  protection  of  their  basic  rights  to 
unleash  their  potential  have  positive  implications  for 
the advancement of society as a whole. Moreover, their 
mainstreaming  and  empowerment  through  access  to 
power and productive resources directly contribute to 
comprehensive  development.  In  Nepal,  constitutional, 
legislative  and  institutional  provisions  ensure  equal 
rights  to  women  and  their  meaningful  participation 
in  and  contribution  to  society,  focusing  on  capacity-
building,  institutional  strengthening,  legal  protection, 
empowerment and gender mainstreaming. 
We  are  committed  to  our  national,  regional  and 
international  commitments  and  obligations  to  human 
rights,  despite  our  protracted  political  transition,  low 
level  of  economic  growth  and  capacity  constraints. 
Peace,  democracy,  human  rights  and  development 
reinforce  each  other  and  impinge  upon  the  people’s 
uninterrupted  participation  in  governance  and  an 
inclusive  development  process.  The  National  Human 
Rights  Commission  and  several  other  human  rights 
institutions  seek  to  safeguard  the  human  rights  of 
our  people.  We  are  strengthening  their  institutional 
capacity to deliver on their constitutional and statutory 
responsibilities, 
the  rights  of 
women,  children  and  persons  with  disabilities.  The 
current national plan, policies and programmes of the 
Government  are  geared  towards  the  empowerment  of 
all  the  people,  regardless  of  class,  creed,  gender  or 
ethnicity,  and  embarking  on  a  path  of  socioeconomic 
development that is inclusive, fair, equitable and just for 
all, in line with the country’s national and international 
commitments. 
including  ensuring 
for  Regional  Cooperation 
Nepal  is  a  founding  member  of  the  South  Asian 
Association 
(SAARC) 
and  a  member  of  the  Bay  of  Bengal  Initiative  for 
Multi-Sectoral  Technical  and  Economic  Cooperation 
(BIMSTEC), through which we are actively involved in 
forging a synergy of collective efforts in several areas 
of  regional  cooperation,  including  poverty  reduction, 
trade  expansion,  investment  promotion,  connectivity 
improvement  and  socioeconomic  advancement.  Nepal 
is  constructively  engaged  with  arrangements  such  as 
SAARC and BIMSTEC for peace and prosperity at the 
regional level and with the United Nations at the global 
level.
My  delegation  looks  to  the  United  Nations  as  the 
repository  of  our  hopes  and  a  true  upholder  of  the 
universal values of peace, justice, equality, freedom and 
human dignity. Given that the United Nations mandate 
and  structures  were  founded  nearly  seven  decades 
ago, its reform has been a continuous process aimed at 
meeting the growing requirements of changing times. 
There  are  growing  concerns  that  the  United  Nations 
20/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
bodies  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  should  be 
made more democratic, accountable, financially stable 
and  responsive  to  all,  as  their  decisions  pervade  the 
social, economic and financial architectures of nation 
States.  Nepal  supports  the  timely  re-engineering  of 
those institutions in order to ensure the representation 
of developing countries in their decision-making.
Nepal holds the view that the reform of the Security 
Council should reflect changes in contemporary political 
and economic realities. It should be more representative 
in composition, transparent in functioning, democratic 
in  character,  balanced  between  the  North  and  South, 
and above all be capable of taking prompt action when 
peace is threatened.
to 
the  work  of 
For  over  six  decades  now,  Nepal  has  consistently 
contributed 
the  United  Nations, 
particularly  through  peacekeeping  missions  around 
the world, including in the most challenging situations. 
More  than  100,000  peacekeepers  have  served  so  far 
with distinct professionalism, and 63 soldiers have laid 
down their precious lives in the line of duty.
My  country,  Nepal,  is  in  a  crucial  phase  of 
taking  the  peace  process  to  a  logical  conclusion  and 
institutionalizing  the  gains  made  in  the  democratic 
rights  of  the  people,  which  came  through  various 
continuous  movements  and  struggles  carried  out  over 
decades. The country-driven and owned peace process 
enjoyed  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community,  for  which  we  express  our 
deep appreciation. 
The  first  Constituent  Assembly,  elected  through 
the democratic process in 2008, expired in May 2012 
without completing its mandate of making an inclusive 
constitution. In the aftermath of the dissolution of the 
Constituent  Assembly,  attempts  to  form  a  consensus 
Government, led by leaders of political parties, could not 
coalesce in the absence of general consensus, even after 
a series of attempts through dialogue and negotiations. 
The country started to slide into political uncertainty in 
the absence of certainty that an election would be held, 
and more complications appeared imminent. 
To  overcome  the  situation,  the  major  political 
parties were guided by their collective wisdom to work 
out an alternative outlet that resulted in the formation 
of  an  apolitical  and  neutral  Government,  under  the 
leadership of the Chief Justice, with the aim of holding 
free, fair and credible elections to a fresh Constituent 
Assembly.  In  view  of  the  demands  of  the  situation  to 
form  a  Constituent  Assembly  that  would  function  as 
a pivotal institution for the balance of power, I had to 
accept  the  responsibility  in  the  larger  interest  of  the 
nation and the people and as a responsible citizen.
We have made the necessary preparations to hold 
the elections on 19 November this year. We have been 
trying  our  best  to  listen  to  the  dissenting  parties  and 
to  bring  them  on  board  for  the  election  through  the 
political process. There is no alternative to elections to 
revitalize  the  democratic  process  and  ensure  political 
stability.  The  election  will  provide  a  mandate  by 
the  people  for  writing  a  constitution,  advance  civil 
and  political  rights,  ensure  people’s  sovereignty  in 
decision-making  in  State  affairs  and  institutionalize 
multiparty democracy, federalism and republicanism. It 
will be instrumental in completing the remaining tasks 
of the peace process. The settlement of political issues 
through  the  democratic  process  will  ensure  political 
stability  and,  eventually,  will  open  up  prospects  for 
broad-based  economic  development,  to  which  the 
people  have  aspired  for  so  long.  I  express  my  sincere 
thanks  to  the  international  community  for  the  moral 
and  material  support  made  available  for  the  elections 
and would like to convey how meaningful that gesture 
of goodwill is to us.
The President took the Chair. 
It  is  my  hope  and  belief  that,  with  continuing 
understanding,  support  and  assistance  on  the  part 
of  all  friends  of  Nepal,  we  will  be  able  to  go  beyond 
the  protracted  political  transition  and  focus  on  the 
consolidation  of  the  political  accomplishments  made 
so  far,  the  further  democratization  of  the  country 
and  economic  development,  so  that  we  may  graduate 
from  least-developed-country  status  by  2022.  We  are 
fully  confident  that  democracy  provides  leverage  for 
bridging differences and promoting peace, tranquillity 
and prosperity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Chairman of the Council of Ministers 
of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Khil  Raj  Regmi,  Chairman  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of 
Nepal, was escorted from the rostrum.
13-48803
21/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
Address by Mr. Manmohan Singh, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of India
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of India.
Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Manmohan Singh, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  India,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Singh (India): Let me first of all congratulate 
you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. We 
wish  you  every  success  and  assure  you  of  our  fullest 
cooperation.
At  a  time  when  the  world  is  facing  multiple 
challenges,  there  is  renewed  attention  to  the  role  of 
the  United  Nations  in  advancing  international  peace, 
security and prosperity. However, never has scepticism 
about the capacity of the United Nations to do so been 
higher, or the external environment less propitious for 
multilateralism.
The  nearly  seven  decades  of  work  of  the  United 
Nations  hold  one  simple  lesson:  that  we  are  most 
successful  when  we  adhere  to  the  letter  and  spirit  of 
the United Nations Charter, basing our decisions on the 
widest possible consensus and balancing equitably the 
needs and responsibilities of nations at different stages 
and levels of development.
In those seven decades, the world has changed in 
fundamental  ways.  Asia  and  Africa  are  independent 
and  resurgent.  Countries  are  now  not  only  more 
interdependent, but also face new, increasingly complex 
challenges. For multilateralism to remain relevant and 
effective in the future, multilateral institutions need to 
be reformed urgently. The place to begin is right here.
The  Security  Council  must  be  reformed  and 
restructured 
to  reflect  current  political  realities. 
More developing countries should be included as both 
permanent and non-permanent members.
The  multilateral  financial  institutions  should  also 
enable  an  enhanced  voice  for  developing  countries  in 
their  decision-making  structures.  Multilateral  efforts 
must guide our quest for peace and security, wherever 
they are threatened, and the centrality and contribution 
of the United Nations system to development must be 
restored.
Those  objectives  require  the  building  of  a  new 
international  consensus  suited  to  our  time  and  rooted 
in today’s realities. It is only such a plan of action that 
will enable the United Nations to meet the twin tests of 
legitimacy, and effectiveness and efficiency.
We  commend  your  choice  of  the  theme  of  this 
session. Setting the stage for the post-2015 development 
agenda  is  especially  important  as  we  deal  with  a 
lingering  global  economic  slowdown  and  continuing 
volatility  in  financial  markets.  These  have  imposed 
disproportionately heavy costs on developing countries 
and the vulnerable groups within them.
Growth  and  inclusive  development  are  naturally 
important  for  all  our  countries.  They  require  a 
supportive 
environment, 
enhanced investment flows, including from multilateral 
development banks, the transfer of technology, and an 
open multilateral trading regime.
international 
economic 
But the problems of the more than 1 billion people 
living  in  abject  poverty  around  the  world  need  to  be 
attacked  more  directly.  Poverty  remains  a  major 
political  and  economic  challenge,  and  its  eradication 
requires special attention and a new collective thrust. 
That priority should anchor the post-2015 development 
agenda, which should be shaped by the Member States 
so  that  it  enjoys  the  broadest  possible  support  and 
acceptance.
Issues  of  peace,  security,  human  rights  and 
governance are important and need to be addressed. But 
we  will  fall  short  of  realizing  an  ambitious  post-2015 
development agenda if we focus merely on governance 
issues  at  the  cost  of  robust  economic  growth.  This 
agenda  should  not  be  merely  about  reprioritizing 
domestic  spending,  but  also  about  fostering  genuine 
international  partnerships  between  developing  and 
developed  countries  to  bring  about  change.  All  of  us 
need the policy space necessary to set our own domestic 
priorities. 
No one knows the condition of developing countries 
better  than  the  developing  countries  themselves.  It  is 
therefore important that the United Nations set clear and 
concise  goals  and  provide  practical  and  well-defined 
means of implementation, including an adequate flow 
of resources and the transfer of technology, taking the 
views of developing countries fully into account.
22/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
A meaningful post-2015 agenda must place equally 
high priority on food and nutrition, health, education, 
infrastructure, water, sanitation, energy and combating 
discrimination  against  women.  Especially  critical  is 
women’s  equal  access  to  economic  opportunities  and 
ensuring that they do not become victims of violence or  
the targets of prejudice.
In  India,  we  have  sought  to  promote  inclusive 
development in multiple ways. Legislation has broadened 
access to education and secured rural livelihoods. We 
are  now  building  the  world’s  largest  programme  for 
food security. Digital technology is being harnessed to 
improve the delivery of public services and benefits to 
the people.
India is proud of its partnerships with developing 
countries. Using modest resources, we have built strong 
ties with Africa and the least developed countries. We 
are  committed  to  building  100  institutions  in  Africa 
and have offered capacity-building support, including 
thousands  of  scholarships,  and  made  available  over 
$9.5 billion of concessional assistance. India and Africa 
are engaging through the India-Africa Forum Summit 
process. We also look forward to participating actively 
in  the  third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States, to be held in Samoa in 2014, and to 
contributing to its outcome.
Climate change is one of the defining challenges of 
our times. We must summon the political will necessary 
to craft a robust global response to climate change on 
the  basis  of  equity  and  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities.
We are deeply concerned about the future of West 
Asia, a region with which India shares deep bonds of 
history and one that is critical for our energy security 
as  well  as  the  livelihoods  of  the  nearly  7  million 
Indians  who  work  and  live  in  the  region.  Not  only  is 
the  increasingly  lethal  conflict  in  Syria  a  tragedy  for 
the people of Syria, but it also threatens stability and 
security in the region and beyond. It has been made worse 
by the use of chemical weapons. The use of chemical 
weapons,  whosoever  may  have  deployed  them,  must 
be  condemned  in  the  strongest  possible  terms.  India 
strongly supports the elimination of chemical-weapons 
material  and  equipment  in  Syria.There  is  no  military 
solution  to  that  conflict.  We  must  intensify  efforts  to 
end  the  conflict  and  seek  a  political  settlement.  It  is 
essential that the “Geneva II” conference be convened 
at the earliest opportunity.
We are encouraged that direct talks have resumed 
between Israel and Palestine. India supports the early 
realization  of  a  sovereign,  independent,  viable  and 
united  State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital,  living  within  secure  and  recognized  borders, 
side by side and at peace with Israel. We also remain 
committed to the Palestinian quest for full membership 
in the United Nations.
In  our  own  region,  Afghanistan  prepares  for  a 
historic  political,  security  and  economic  transition. 
The international community must support the people 
of  Afghanistan  through  this  transition  and  beyond  in 
combating  terrorism,  preserving  the  progress  of  the 
past decade and creating a stable, united and prosperous 
Afghanistan.
Terrorism  remains  a  grave  threat  to  security  and 
stability everywhere and exacts a heavy toll of innocent 
lives around the world. From Africa to Asia, we have 
seen several manifestations of this menace in the last 
few days alone. State-sponsored, cross-border terrorism 
is  of  particular  concern  to  India,  also  on  account  of 
the fact that the epicentre of terrorism in our region is 
located in our neighbourhood, in Pakistan.
From this rostrum yesterday, Prime Minister Nawaz 
Sharif  of  Pakistan  spoke  of  making  a  new  beginning 
(see  A/68/PV.15).  I  reciprocate  his  sentiments  and 
am  looking  forward  to  meeting  him  tomorrow.  India 
is  sincerely  committed  to  resolving  all  issues  with 
Pakistan,  including  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir, 
through  bilateral  dialogue  on  the  basis  of  the  Simla 
Agreement.  However,  for  progress  to  be  made,  it  is 
imperative that the territory of Pakistan and the areas 
under its control not be utilized for aiding and abetting 
terrorism directed against India. It is equally important 
that  the  terrorist  machinery  that  draws  its  sustenance 
from  Pakistan  be  shut  down.  There  must  be  a  clear 
understanding of the fact that Jammu and Kashmir is 
an integral part of India and that there can never, ever, 
be a compromise with the unity and territorial integrity 
of India.
We  need  to  renew  our  commitment,  especially 
here at the United Nations, to concerted, cohesive and 
continuing  global  action  against  terrorism.  There  can 
be no tolerance for States sheltering, arming, training or 
financing terrorists. Nor can States absolve themselves 
of  the  responsibility  to  prevent  their  territories  from 
being used to launch acts of terrorism.
13-48803
23/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
complex 
challenges 
The 
increasingly 
to 
international  peace  and  security  require  a  new 
international consensus to be built, whether it is in the 
field  of  cybersecurity,  non-proliferation  or  terrorism. 
This year, 25 years after Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi 
put forward a comprehensive action plan for a nuclear-
weapon-free  and  non-violent  world  order,  we  must 
strengthen  efforts  against  nuclear  proliferation  and 
pursue 
time-bound,  universal,  non-discriminatory, 
phased  and  verifiable  nuclear  disarmament.  We  must 
also  guard  against  terrorists  and  non-State  actors 
gaining access to sensitive materials and technologies.
Two  years  from  now,  the  United  Nations  will  be 
70 years old. Every new State born during that period 
of 70 years has taken its place in the Assembly not just 
with  pride  but  also  with  hope.  The  year  2015  will  be 
a  time  to  celebrate  our  successes  and  ensure  that  the 
United Nations is ready for this century, by completing 
much-needed  reforms  of  the  Organization  and  its 
Security Council, developing an ambitious and balanced 
post-2015 development agenda and demonstrating our 
capacity to cooperate effectively for durable peace and 
security in the world we live in.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
India for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Cape Verde
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Cape 
Verde.
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister of 
the  Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Maria  Pereira  Neves,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  and  inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Pereira  Neves  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke 
in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
I  would  first  like  to  salute  you,  Ambassador  John 
Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda, on your election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly. Mr. President, we 
are sure you will bring all your experience and wisdom 
to bear in the conduct of our debates and in carrying out 
the General Assembly’s important tasks.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  commend  the 
remarkable  work  the  United  Nations  has  done  so  that 
we  have  the  opportunity  to  advance  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and to work together today 
to  set  a  new  post-2015  development  agenda.  Indeed, 
that is a global challenge that, besides inaugurating a 
new era in global development, challenges us to meet 
the eight Millennium Development Goals. The focus of 
this session, as was declared by Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon,  is  fairness  and  dignity  for  all,  a  task  that 
challenges  everyone  and  requires  new  attitudes  and 
behaviours, based on the premise that a better world is 
possible.
Cape  Verde,  a  small  island  developing  State  that 
has been independent for less than 39 years, has already 
achieved most of the targets envisioned and will continue 
its  efforts  to  meet  all  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. Thanks to a transformation agenda that we have 
been promoting since 2001, when Cape Verde was on 
the  list  of  least  developed  countries,  our  nation  has 
made  significant  progress  in  the  socioeconomic  and 
political arenas and has improved the people’s overall 
standard  of  living.  Our  focus  on  and  investment  in 
access  to  education,  health  care,  water  and  food  have 
been  clear,  unambiguous  and  systematic,  as  have 
our  efforts  to  competitively  integrate  our  economy 
into  the  international  market,  with  the  support  of  our 
international partners.
At  the  same  time,  the  transformation  agenda, 
which  is  fully  aligned  with  our  MDG  commitments 
and targets, has created the conditions for Cape Verde’s 
historic  transition  to  the  realm  of  middle-income 
countries, although, owing to the strong impact of the 
international  crisis,  which  has  to  some  extent  put  the 
brakes  on  the  momentum  of  the  country’s  ongoing 
progress,  it  still  falls  within  the  lower-middle-income 
scale. Our indicators show that we have reduced poverty 
by  half,  and  it  is  clearly  on  a  downward  trend.  Our 
current  challenge  is  the  close  monitoring  essential  to 
preventing any setbacks that might result from the global 
economic  situation  and  its  impact  on  Cape  Verde.  In 
fact, despite our graduation to middle-income-country 
status, our indicators still show high rates of poverty, 
inequality  and  unemployment,  as  well  as  insufficient 
access  to  many  goods  and  services,  and  we  are  still 
short of our goal of achieving well-being and and a high 
standard of living for all our people.
24/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Cape Verdeans are ready to push for the evolution 
of the terms of the Millennium Development Goals and 
replace “reducing” extreme poverty with “eradicating” 
it,  leaving  none  behind.  Moreover,  we  in  Cape  Verde 
are  ready  to  put  the  issue  of  economic  sustainability 
at  the  centre  of  the  country’s  development  agenda 
and  have  already  begun  to  do  so.  We  recognize 
that  “transformation”  in  Cape  Verde  is  more  than 
a  key  word;  it  is  an  agenda  for  work  stemming  from 
inclusive  growth.  In  addition,  we  have  been  creating 
accountable institutions, open to all, in order to ensure 
good governance. Based on that perspective, we have 
refocused our internal policy, and are thus mobilizing 
our national will while appealing for support from our 
international  partners,  towards  the  goal  of  reaching 
advanced-development status by 2030. That is what it 
means for us to commit to a post-2015 agenda.
We  are  currently  in  a  transition  period.  The 
instruments we have created on our own are not enough 
to respond to the questions of today or to prepare for a 
future moving towards advanced development, unless 
that is a part of a global agenda led by the United Nations 
and  involving  intensive  international  cooperation  and 
partnership at both the multilateral and bilateral levels. 
Cape  Verde  is  committed  to  that  joint  effort.  Cape 
Verdeans  are  deeply  focused  on  global  issues,  such 
as  climate  change,  hunger  and  malnutrition  and  the 
various forms of inequality, as well as the importance 
of  ensuring  environmental  sustainability  and  national 
and  international  partnerships  in  support  of  global 
development.
Climate change is a pressing problem of our times 
that must be addressed with urgency and a great sense 
of  responsibility.  The  world  has  reached  record  highs 
in terms of emissions and the concentration of carbon 
dioxide in the atmosphere, which is now at about 400 
parts per million. That could mean the destruction of 
our  development  efforts  and,  even  worse,  the  serious 
exacerbation of social tensions, which could potentially 
open the door to both national and regional conflicts. 
Similarly, the effects of climate change on global food 
security  should  be  stressed.  Ocean  acidification  is 
increasing at a rate that has not been seen in 55 million 
years.  Ultimately,  the  disappearance  of  numerous 
marine  species  has  become  inevitable.  We  must  all 
confront  this  issue,  which  endangers  our  common 
future,  and  take  the  necessary  decisions,  fulfilling 
our  financial  commitments  aimed  at  adaptation, 
particularly in the most vulnerable countries.
With respect to the post-2015 agenda, the issue of 
employment dominates the concerns of Cape Verdeans. 
The subject occupies the top spot among all consulted, 
who  identify  employment  as  essential  to  achieving 
economic  and  human  development.  Another  serious 
issue has to do with the sustainability of social security. 
We need a more universal welfare system, and we must 
create and introduce instruments for that purpose. That 
is possible only with a more dynamic economy. 
There  will  be  no  transformation  agenda  if  we  do 
not  create  solid,  sustainable  foundations  for  social 
protection. To do so, we need to grow and expand wealth, 
as well as provide a greater number of decent jobs. We 
need to create a wave of modernization for society and 
for  the  competitive  factors  of  our  economy,  so  as  to 
improve  the  business  environment  and  attract  foreign 
investment. The larger result will be economic growth 
and the creation of wealth to induce the improvement of 
indicators that matter. We must recognize that there is 
room for improvement, particularly in terms of reducing 
State  bureaucracy  and  increasing  competitiveness,  as 
well  as  in  terms  of  making  foreign  investment  more 
streamlined  and  more  efficient  for  entrepreneurship. 
We  urge  our  citizens  to  be  productive,  competitive 
and prosperous, without losing the vast Cape Verdean 
capacity for generosity, solidarity and responsibility.
The  continuation  of  the  international  crisis  and 
its  impact  on  all  countries  creates  serious  problems 
for  the  entire  world  community.  In  the  case  of  Cape 
Verde,  the  situation  poses  serious  challenges  that  we 
must  overcome,  namely,  obstacles  to  the  acceleration 
of economic growth, the promotion of employment and 
the reduction of poverty. At this sixty-eighth session of 
the General Assembly, we reiterate our commitment to 
peace and dialogue, within the parameters enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Our  vision  of  the  United  Nations  is  of  a  more 
cohesive and united Organization in which efforts are 
undertaken for the prosperity of nations. Our vision of 
the General Assembly is of a great forum for dialogue 
on the global challenges of our planet and humankind, 
and our vision of the Security Council is of a body with 
a more balanced representation that is better suited to 
the geopolitical developments that the world has known 
since 1945. 
This  is  a  unique  opportunity  for  Cape  Verde, 
a  Portuguese-speaking  country, 
its 
commitment to cultural diversity and, in its quest for 
reaffirm 
to 
13-48803
25/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
multiculturalism, which is its prerogative, to call for the 
Portuguese  language —  the  fifth  most  widely  spoken 
language  in  the  world,  connecting  States  and  peoples 
across five continents — to be recognized as an official 
or  a  working  language  of  international  organizations, 
particularly the United Nations.
We  wish  to  make  one  more  comment  as  we 
position  ourselves,  following  the  report  of  the  United 
Nations Mission to Investigate Allegations of the Use 
of Chemical Weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic on 
the alleged use of chemical weapons in the Ghouta area 
of Damascus on 21 August (A/67/997), which we have 
studied with close attention. We welcome the progress 
made towards dialogue, particularly the joint search for 
peaceful solutions, especially at the United Nations. We 
are against the use of weapons of mass destruction, and 
we  will  continue  to  align  with  subsequent  initiatives 
towards  their  eradication.  As  we  are  against  war  and 
belligerence, we advocate for the implementation of a 
global strategy to combat violence. 
We  wish  to  express  our  solidarity  with  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Kenya,  as  well  as  our 
unequivocal  condemnation  of  the  reprehensible  acts 
of  barbarism  and  human  savagery  that  occurred  last 
Saturday in Nairobi. 
We urge all the members of the General Assembly to 
reach a historic agreement in favour of the environment. 
The  main  objective  is  to  implement  the  established 
Goals in the outcome document of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  entitled 
“The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex).  We 
also  reaffirm  our  resolute  willingness  to  cooperate 
with everyone to reduce regional and global tensions, 
so  as  to  broaden  the  understanding  of  sovereignties, 
freedoms and human rights.
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  preference  for 
the 
joint  definition  of  new  goals  that  will  stipulate  the 
fundamentals for the prosperity of countries and for the 
welfare of the world’s people, crafting together a post-
2015  agenda.  Cape  Verde  is  committed  to  making  its 
contribution to the creation of a new goals scenario to 
succeed and complement the Millennium Development 
Goals. Our common commitment is meeting the eight 
Goals and our shared responsibility is creating a new 
post-2015 agenda in favour of sustainable development. 
The  manner  in  which  we  do  it  will  determine  our 
common  destiny.  The  importance  of  our  decisions 
and  the  responsibility  to  make  them  within  the 
United  Nations  framework  are  evident.  Let  us  get  to 
work  to  create  a  new  global  dynamic  that  leads  to  a 
joint  vision  for  promoting  progress.  Cape  Verde  is 
firmly  committed  to  the  establishment  of  a  post-2015 
development  agenda;  that  is  also  the  future  we  want. 
We assure the Assembly that we will do everything in 
our  power  in  the  name  of  a  better  future,  filled  with 
freedom,  equality  and  prosperity.  The  international 
community can count on us.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Cape Verde for the statement he has just made.
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Cape Verde, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Leo  Dion,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  of  Papua  New 
Guinea. 
Mr.  Dion  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  am  honoured 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  Prime  Minister 
Peter O’Neill and the people of Papua New Guinea. I 
also wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as 
President of the General Assembly. We welcome your 
overarching  theme  of  “The  post-2015  development 
agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  advocating  a  solid  global 
foundation  for  a  results-oriented  partnership  that  is 
people-centred and inclusive in our common pursuit of 
sustainable  development.  Papua  New  Guinea  pledges 
its support to you as you take on that important task.  
We acknowledge the contributions of your predecessor 
and wish him well in his future endeavours.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  address  the  Assembly 
on  the  state  of  our  economy,  highlight  the  challenges 
before us and put forward the policies and development 
plans of my Government.
Papua  New  Guinea  continues  to  be  a  vibrant  and 
thriving democracy. However, as experienced by other 
developing  nations,  the  road  has  not  been  easy  in 
terms of the political, economic and social challenges 
that  have  confronted  us  domestically  and  globally.  In 
the  past,  our  development  efforts  have  been  littered 
with missed economic opportunities. My Government 
is  therefore  determined  to  reset  the  development  and 
wealth-creation direction for our nation.
We  have  set  a  transformative  agenda  for  our 
country  and  people  under  our  long-term  Papua  New 
Guinea  Vision  2050  policy  framework  and  five-year 
26/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
medium-term development plan. We are determined to 
achieve  those  development  plans,  as  they  continue  to 
reinforce our work aimed at achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals and making progress on the post-
2015 development agenda.
Our  economy  continues  to  record  unprecedented 
growth  levels,  which  can  be  attributed  to  a  stable 
Government  with  responsible  and  sound  monetary 
and  fiscal  policies.  Such  positive  economic  growth 
complements the Government’s long-term development 
policies  aimed  at  stimulating 
the  economy  and 
achieving  our  development  aspirations.  Strategies  to 
strengthen economic growth include reinvesting in key 
enablers, such as infrastructure, health and education, 
so as to maximize opportunities and improve the lives 
of our citizens.
is  harnessing 
My  Government 
that  positive 
economic  growth  to  address  and  improve  our  social 
indicators,  including  low  literacy  levels  and  high 
maternal  and  infant  mortality  rates.  We  have  also 
embarked  on  a  major  strengthening  of  law-and-order 
enforcement  infrastructure.  This  year,  50  per  cent  of 
our  budget  has  been  allocated  to  education  and  basic 
health  care,  law-and-order  enforcement,  and  critical 
infrastructure improvement.
My  Government  is  committed  to  a  public-private 
partnership model as an important catalyst for national 
development. We are also committed to strengthening 
existing  programmes  and  networks  with  the  private 
sector, churches, donor agencies and non-governmental 
organizations 
through  cooperative  and  mutually 
beneficial arrangements.
We are equally committed to investing in provincial 
and  local-level  government  so  as  to  improve  service 
delivery  for  the  majority  of  our  population  living  in 
rural  areas.  We  firmly  believe  that  such  partnerships 
will create an enabling environment and empower our 
people to take ownership of their lives and be proactive 
in nation-building.
by 
policies, 
supported 
My  Government  has  also  embarked  on  investor-
friendly 
public-private 
partnerships  and  prudent  economic  management,  so 
as  to  promote  growth  in  key  non-mining  sectors.  In 
that connection, my Government is reviewing taxation 
policies  with  a  view  to  providing  incentives  and 
concessions  and  encouraging  strategic  investments  in 
areas that are critical to driving our economic growth. 
Exporting  our  raw  materials  is  not  an  option.  We 
therefore  encourage  downstream  processing  through 
genuinely joint ventures and other acceptable economic 
cooperation.
My  Government  is  committed  to  strengthening 
governance at all levels by combating corruption. We 
have adopted the principle of zero tolerance. To that end, 
the Government has adopted a national anti-corruption 
strategy and established an independent task force with 
powers  to  investigate  and  prosecute.  An  independent 
commission  against  corruption  will  be  established  to 
enhance  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention against Corruption.
Given  the  importance  of  cross-border  security 
and related issues, a national security policy is in the 
final stages of completion. The focus of that policy is 
on  dealing  with  national  security  issues  as  contained 
in pillar 4 of the Vision 2050 policy framework. In line 
with our national security policy, we are committed to 
rebuilding  our  disciplinary  forces  and  institutions  as 
well as continuing our participation in United Nations 
peacekeeping operations.
those 
indices, 
including 
My Government is committed to addressing some 
of  my  country’s  unflattering  international  human 
development 
regarding 
human  rights  issues.  We  recognize  our  development 
challenges,  including  gender-based  violence,  sorcery-
related  deaths,  access  to  social  services  and  the  low 
level of representation of our women in the public and 
private sectors. In our assessment, many of those human 
rights and human development reports are exaggerated 
and insensitive, with scant attention paid to the positive 
efforts by the Government to promote and protect basic 
rights  for  all  our  citizens.  Over  the  past  six  months, 
my  Government  has  enacted  the  Family  Protection 
Law and repealed the Sorcery Act of 1971, effectively 
making domestic and sorcery-related violence criminal 
offences.
I am pleased to announce that my Government has 
ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities.  The  instrument  of  ratification  has  been 
deposited with the United Nations at this session.
In  recent  months,  there  have  been  many  reports 
about  Papua  New  Guinea’s  bilateral  agreement  with 
Australia on the regional resettlement arrangement for 
asylum-seekers.  Papua  New  Guinea,  as  a  State  party 
to the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the 
Status  of  Refugees  and  its  1967  Protocol,  recognizes 
the 
international 
importance  of  addressing 
that 
13-48803
27/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
humanitarian  issue.  Our  two  Governments  are  jointly 
working  on  the  issue  and  call  upon  the  international 
community to support our efforts. Furthermore, we call 
upon like-minded Member States and other stakeholders 
to  assist  our  efforts  to  address  the  root  causes  of  the 
displacement  and  dislocation  of  people,  as  well  as  to 
combat human trafficking and people smuggling.
As  an  emerging  economy  in  the  Pacific  region, 
Papua New Guinea will enhance its level of engagement 
on issues of mutual concern, both within the region and 
globally.  In  the  spirit  of  friendship  and  neighbourly 
South-South cooperation, we are committed to sharing 
the benefits of our natural resources development with 
our  Pacific  island  neighbours.  We  have  embarked  on 
that  path  by  providing  development  assistance  to  our 
neighbours, including the Solomon Islands, Fiji, Tuvalu, 
Marshall Islands, Tonga and Samoa.
Through  the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group,  we 
are  forging  dynamic  and  strong  bonds  in  areas  that 
include  trade  and  investment,  education  and  training, 
judicial  support,  sporting  and  cultural  exchanges  and 
visa arrangements to facilitate the movement of skilled 
persons.  To  further  consolidate  such  very  important 
partnerships  at  the  regional  level,  we  are  collectively 
reviewing the relevance of the Pacific plan in relation 
to regional integration. Papua New Guinea is playing a 
leading role in that review exercise.
Papua New Guinea supports the outcome document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), entitled “The future we want” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  as  the  basis  for  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  That  agenda  addresses 
balanced human development, including issues relating 
to  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  improving  living 
standards  for  humanity.  We  also  support  inclusive 
economic  growth,  while  preserving  the  environment 
for  future  generations.  We  welcome  the  work  of  the 
High-Level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-2015 
Development  Agenda  and  the  creation  of  the  High-
Level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which  succeeded  the  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development.  Both  serve  as  a  good  starting  point  for 
driving the agenda forward.
Papua  New  Guinea  and  the  Pacific  small  island 
developing States call on the international community 
to support the inclusion of the oceans as a stand-alone 
sustainable development goal. We are now in the initial 
stages  of  preparing  a  sustainable  development  policy 
and strategy for our country, which is to complement 
our  long-term  Vision  2050  policy  framework.  We 
welcome support from the international community to 
enhance that work. 
issues  of  small 
Papua  New  Guinea  is  pleased  to  note  that  the 
sustainable  development 
island 
developing  States  are  a  priority  on  the  General 
Assembly agenda, further reaffirming the importance 
of  the  Rio+20  outcome  document  and  the  relevant 
General Assembly resolutions. Your two visits this year 
to  our  Pacific  region,  Mr.  President,  underscore  your 
commitment to small island developing States, for which 
we applaud you. We look forward to the strengthening 
of that important work during your presidency.
As  the  global  community  prepares  for  the  third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States in September 2014 in Apia, Papua New Guinea 
reiterates the call for small island developing States to 
remain a special case for sustainable development. The 
adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  continue  to  be  of 
serious concern to the global community, but especially 
for small island developing States. While contributing 
the  least  to  that  threat,  small  island  countries  are  not 
only  suffering  the  most  from  the  serious  impacts  of 
climate change but also run the risk of being submerged 
by rising sea levels.
We  support  the  Majuro  Declaration  for  Climate 
Leadership, recently adopted by Pacific Island Forum 
leaders.  We  therefore  reiterate  the  challenge  to  the 
international  community  to  accept  its  responsibilities 
and its leadership role. We also urge the international 
community  to  renew  its  political  commitment  to 
prioritize  the  sustainable  development  issues  of  small 
island developing States in the post-2015 development 
agenda. As part of our continued efforts, I am pleased 
to  note  that  Papua  New  Guinea  has  now  become  a 
member of the Governing Council of the Global Green 
Growth Institute.
the 
despite 
Papua  New  Guinea  agrees  that  the  Millennium 
their 
Development  Goals 
(MDGs), 
shortcomings,  have  galvanized 
international 
community’s  development  efforts  to  shape  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  We  agree  with  the  view 
expressed in the Secretary-General’s 2013 annual report 
on the work of the Organization (A/68/1) that we should 
remain focused and redouble our efforts to consolidate 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  for  improved  outcomes.  We  also  welcome  the 
28/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
outcomes of the recently concluded high-level special 
events on the MDGs and on disability and development 
during the sixty-eighth session.
Papua New Guinea is unlikely to achieve most of 
the MDGs by 2015. However, my Government remains 
committed  to  implementing  the  goals  beyond  2015. 
We have tailored our Millennium Development Goals 
targets  and  indicators  in  accordance  with  our  2011  to 
2015  medium-term  development  plan  and  the  Vision 
2050  policy  framework.  We  are  making  progress  in 
the  areas  of  universal  primary  education  enrolment, 
poverty 
infant  and  maternal 
mortality rates, combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and 
other  health  issues  and  strengthening  gender  equality 
and empowerment.
reduction, 
reduced 
Papua  New  Guinea  expresses  its  appreciation  for 
the support it has received from United Nations agencies 
and  other  development  partners  complementing 
our  efforts  to  accelerate  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
I  am  pleased  to  report  on  the  continued  progress 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Bougainville  Peace 
Agreement  and  the  successful  scaling  down  of  the 
Regional  Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands. 
We thank the United Nations, regional partners and the 
international community for their continued assistance 
in both instances.
On international peace and security issues, Papua 
New  Guinea  remains  concerned  about  conflicts  and 
tensions  in  various  regions  of  the  world,  including  in 
the  Middle  East,  North  Africa,  the  Korean  peninsula 
and the South China Sea. We urge all parties involved 
to defuse the situation through peaceful dialogue.
We join the international community in condemning 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  and  urge  full 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention.  We  therefore  commend  the 
Security  Council  for  adopting  resolution  2118  (2013) 
with  a  view  to  dismantling  and  eradicating  Syria’s 
chemical-weapons programme.
to the United Nations peacekeepers serving around the 
world, often in very trying conditions, and especially 
those who have made the ultimate sacrifice with their 
lives.
We express our concern over the lack of progress 
on  disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation.  As  a 
strong  supporter  of  a  nuclear-free  world,  Papua  New 
Guinea calls on the United Nations and the international 
community to address that serious lack of progress. We 
also  need  to  revitalize  United  Nations  disarmament 
work  so  as  to  foster  international  peace  and  security. 
Papua New Guinea welcomes the adoption of the Arms 
Trade Treaty, which will regulate the trade and transfer 
of  conventional  arms,  including  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.
Finally, Papua New Guinea welcomes the leadership 
of  the  Secretary-General  in  reforming  the  United 
Nations system. We encourage robust and constructive 
reforms  in  the  context  of  the  growing  budgetary 
constraints faced by the United Nations in recent years. 
A  lean,  effective  and  responsive  United  Nations  is 
imperative so that it can better deliver on its mandate. 
We also call for the Security Council to be reformed in 
order to reflect today’s geopolitical realities.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Guido Westerwelle, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Federal Republic of Germany.
text  provided  by 
Mr.  Westerwelle  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German, 
English 
the  delegation):  Exactly 
40 years ago, the two German States joined the United 
Nations. For Germans, that marked our full return to the 
community  of  nations.  Germany  supports  the  United 
Nations  as  the  beating  heart  of  a  global  order  rooted 
in  cooperation,  peaceful  compromise  and  cooperative 
solutions.
The  world  has  changed  dramatically  since  then. 
New  centres  of  economic  and  political  power  are 
emerging.  In  recent  years,  Germany  has  established 
new strategic partnerships with the new global players 
in Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Since  October  2011,  Papua  New  Guinea  has 
been  contributing  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations in the Sudan and South Sudan. Earlier this 
year, we became the 148th State Member of the United 
Nations to join the Special Committee on Peacekeeping 
Operations.  We  are  now  looking  at  expanding  and 
increasing our troop contributions. We also pay tribute 
The  setting  of  our  meeting  today  is  different 
from the usual one. The United Nations is undergoing 
renovation, which must not be restricted merely to the 
buildings.  The  United  Nations  must  reflect  the  world 
as it is, not as it used to be. Only then will it be fit for 
the challenges of our age. A Security Council without 
permanent  seats  for  Africa  and  Latin  America  does 
13-48803
29/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
not reflect the realities of today’s world. A Council in 
which the emerging and highly populous region of Asia 
is  represented  by  only  one  permanent  seat  does  not 
reflect the realities of today’s world. Nor does it reflect 
the  reality  of  tomorrow.  Germany,  with  its  partners 
Japan, India and Brazil, is prepared to assume greater 
responsibility. In essence, it is a matter of strengthening 
the United Nations. The authority of the United Nations 
depends on its being representative.
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
We are seeking reform of the United Nations so that 
its power to build consensus, establish global rules and 
act effectively in response to crises and conflicts can 
be demonstrably strengthened. This is a call not only 
to the United Nations itself, but also to each and every 
individual  Member  State.  Only  if  we  are  prepared  to 
compromise  and  are  willing  to  act  together  will  we 
be  able  to  make  the  United  Nations  strong.  Germany 
remains  committed  to  the  United  Nations.  A  strong 
United Nations is in Germany’s interests.
Our cultural differences and diverse traditions are 
not  going  to  vanish  in  the  age  of  globalization,  but  it 
is not only the world’s markets that are becoming ever 
more  closely  interconnected:  people’s  expectations, 
hopes and ideas are globalizing too. The developments 
in  the  Arab  world  have  shown  us  that  a  country’s 
stability  depends  primarily  not  on  the  stability  of 
the  Government  but  on  social  stability.  The  best 
guarantees for a society’s internal cohesion are respect 
for  individual  human  rights,  the  triumph  of  the  rule 
of  law  over  the  arbitrary,  and  broad  economic,  social 
and  political  participation  on  the  part  of  the  people. 
Germany  is  committed  to  democratic  change  and  to 
respect for human and civil rights, not because we want 
to  take  the  moral  high  ground  but  because  we  have 
learned from experience — from the painful experience 
of our own history.
In  Syria  the  people  took  to  the  streets  to  protest 
against  a  repressive  regime.  For  more  than  two  years 
now,  the  regime’s  response  has  been  brutal  violence, 
which  has  brought  countless  deaths,  immeasurable 
suffering  and 
the  Syrian 
people  and  is  now  jeopardizing  stability  in  the  entire 
region.  The  use  of  chemical  weapons,  ascertained  by 
the United Nations, is a crime against civilization. Its 
terrible dimensions have consequences that extend far 
terrible  destruction  on 
beyond Syria. All the facts available to us show that the 
regime is responsible for the use of chemical weapons.
The use of chemical weapons cannot be allowed to 
go unpunished. That we owe not only to the victims in 
Syria, but also to future generations. Those responsible 
for  using  such  weapons  must  be  called  to  account 
before the International Criminal Court, which must at 
last be able to begin its independent investigations. We 
welcome the agreement reached in the Security Council 
yesterday.  The  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  must  be 
completely  destroyed  in  accordance  with  a  firmly 
agreed  timetable.  Germany  is  prepared  to  provide 
financial and technical help to destroy those chemical 
weapons. A world without weapons of mass destruction 
would be a better world.
We  must  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity  for  a 
political process offered by the agreement on destroying 
the  chemical  weapons.  After  all,  people  in  Syria  are 
still being killed every day by conventional weapons. 
But there will be no military solution in Syria. Only a 
political solution can bring lasting peace to Syria. That 
would  include  an  immediate  ceasefire.  I  am  pleased 
that  there  is  at  last  a  timetable  for  a  possible  peace 
conference,  details  of  which  still  have  to  be  clarified 
even after yesterday’s decision in the Security Council. 
Only with a substantive political process can we counter 
the destabilization of the entire region.
To  date,  Germany  has  made  available  more  than 
€420 million to ease the worst of the suffering of the 
Syrian  people.  But  despite  all  of  the  outside  help, 
millions of Syrians are fleeing. Ever more people are 
at acute risk of starvation, and very soon they will also 
be at the mercy of the cold weather. They do not have 
even the most basic medical care. We must seize every 
opportunity  to  provide  humanitarian  access  to  the 
suffering  population  as  quickly  as  possible.  Amid  all 
the devastation and hatred, the United Nations and its 
staff are the face of compassion and, for many Syrians, 
the only hope. I would like expressly to pay tribute to 
their work and commitment.
The tragedy in Syria underlines the extraordinary 
and  growing  importance  attached  to  disarmament 
aimed at eliminating weapons of mass destruction and 
the  strengthening  of  the  non-proliferation  regimes. 
Attaining a world free of weapons of mass destruction is 
our generation’s prime task for the future. Disarmament 
is a crucial issue for the future of humankind.
30/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Iran  must  allay  the  international  community’s 
doubts  about  the  exclusively  peaceful  nature  of  its 
nuclear programme. We welcome Iran’s announcement 
this week that it is prepared to do so. The talks with the 
Iranian Government were encouraging. They open up 
a window of opportunity. Now it is imperative that we 
rebuild trust. Germany is ready to conduct negotiations 
in  a  constructive  manner.  However,  the  new  words 
coming out of Tehran must be followed by deeds, and 
not  at  some  unspecified  time  in  the  future,  but  right 
now. But, I repeat: a fresh start has been made.
We  welcome  the  great  commitment  shown  by 
President  Obama  and  Secretary  of  State  John  Kerry 
in  giving  fresh  impetus  to  the  negotiations  between 
Israel  and  the  Palestinian  leadership.  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu  and  President  Abbas  deserve  our  respect 
for their courage in embarking together on that course. 
They have our full support as they pursue that course 
towards a negotiated agreement. Only a negotiated two-
State solution can reconcile the legitimate interests of 
the two sides.
This week in New York has been an encouraging 
one for the world. I am gratified that it was not military 
solutions  but  the  struggle  for  political  and  diplomatic 
solutions  that  came  to  the  fore.  The  international 
community must continue to follow such an approach.
Beyond  crisis  diplomacy,  the  United  Nations  is 
the  central  forum  for  setting  binding  objectives  for 
the international community. Just a few days ago, the 
General Assembly agreed on the next steps for drawing 
up  a  new  post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda. 
Germany wants to make a contribution in that regard 
with its experience of combining economic prosperity 
and  promoting  political  participation  and  sustainable 
management.
Sustainability and combating poverty are not only 
key social issues; they are also key foreign policy issues.
In formulating the future agenda, greater attention 
needs to be paid to human rights protection and good 
governance  than  has  been  the  case  in  the  past.  The 
new  agenda  must  incorporate  all  three  dimensions  of 
sustainability and take account of economic, social and 
environmental  aspects.  With  such  a  comprehensive 
approach we can also strengthen the fragile statehood 
in  many  countries  and  eradicate  safe  havens  for 
terrorists. Social stability is the best protection against 
radicalization and extremism.
German  foreign  policy  is  a  policy  for  peace.  It 
focuses  on  crisis  prevention.  We  Germans  accept  our 
responsibility  for 
international  peacekeeping.  We 
focus on personal and social development. We focus on 
strengthening  civil  society.  We  want  to  contribute  to 
a  global  process  in  which  we  —  in  the  North,  South, 
East and West learn from each other and develop joint 
solutions by working together. Germany will continue 
in  future  to  use  its  economic  clout  and  full  political 
strength to promote peace and the balancing of interests.
The  digital  age  brings  with  it  entirely  new 
opportunities  and  challenges.  We  need  an  Internet  in 
which freedom, security and the protection of privacy 
are appropriately reconciled. Just as we have to regulate 
international financial flows in order to prevent global 
crises,  so  we  need  binding  rules  and  standards  for 
global data flows. That is why Germany has submitted 
to  the  Human  Rights  Council  an  initiative  regarding 
the  protection  of  the  right  to  privacy  in  the  digital 
age. Everyone using the Internet should be able to be 
sure  that  their  rights  are  being  respected  worldwide 
vis-à-vis private companies as well as vis-à-vis States. 
Not  everything  that  is  technically  possible  must  be 
allowed  to  happen,  nor  is  everything  technically 
possible legitimate.
Germany  remains  firmly  anchored  in  Europe. 
Europe  is  a  community  of  shared  cultures,  bound 
together  by  a  common  destiny.  Close  union  among 
the nations of Europe is and will remain the response 
to our history and to our future in a world of change. 
German foreign policy is firmly embedded in European 
foreign  policy.  Europe  will  continue  to  use  its  clout, 
its  influence  and  its  resources  to  uphold  peace  and 
justice,  to  encourage  development  and  cooperation 
and  to  promote  climate  protection  and  disarmament 
throughout the world.
That is Germany’s twin obligation: a strong united 
Europe  in  the  world  and  a  strong,  effective  United 
Nations for the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Titus  Corlăţean,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Romania.
Mr. Corlăţean (Romania) (spoke in French): I have 
the honour to speak today on behalf of the delegation 
of Romania.
First,  I  welcome  last  night’s  adoption  of  Security 
the 
(2013),  concerning 
Council 
resolution  2118 
13-48803
31/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
destruction  of  Syria’s  chemical  arsenal.  We  believe 
that the resolution’s adoption by the Council represents 
a  veritable  success  for  the  international  community 
regarding the Syrian dossier.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for his well-deserved election, and 
I  wish  to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  support 
in  the  discharge  of  his  important  responsibilities.  We 
are  convinced  that  his  rich  experience  as  a  seasoned 
diplomat  and  the  responsibilities  that  he  previously 
assumed  in  the  sphere  of  international  relations  are 
unquestionable assets for the success of this session.
fully  supports 
My  delegation 
the  statement 
made    by  Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of  the 
European  Council,  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(see A/68/PV.8) .
In  my  statement,  I  would  like  to  touch  upon  a 
number of matters of interest to my country concerning 
the  positive  developments  that  have  occurred  in  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  since  our  previous 
debate, as well as our expectations for the next period, 
in the three main areas of activity of the United Nations, 
namely,  peace  and  security,  development  and  human 
rights, and democracy and the rule of law.
We  believe  that  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  and  the  results  obtained  to  date  in  Mali 
represent  an  encouraging  trend  for  that  country  and 
for  the  Sahel  region.  One  year  ago,  the  crisis  in  Mali 
was  a  major  concern  for  the  Malian  population  and 
for  neighbouring  countries.  Following  the  positive 
developments  that  occurred  in  the  early  months  of 
2013,  the  Security  Council  decided  on  25  April, 
through resolution 2100 (2013), that the United Nations 
would participate in restoring the situation in Mali and 
in  providing  support  for  the  democratic  transition  in 
that  country.  Remarkable  progress  has  been  achieved 
in the interim. Free and fair presidential elections were 
held,  with  an  unprecedented  level  of  participation  of 
the  population.  Earlier  this  month,  President  Ibrahim 
Boubacar  Keita  was  inaugurated,  and  the  Prime 
Minister has already established the new Cabinet.
As  a  member  of  the  European  Union,  Romania 
welcomed the adoption of the Security Council resolution 
establishing 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali.  Similarly, 
my country has also supported the participation of the 
international  community  in  the  process  of  rebuilding 
the capacities and institutions in Mali and has decided 
to  join  those  efforts  by  contributing  a  contingent  of 
10  military  experts  to  the  European  Union’s  training 
mission in Mali.
(spoke in English)
Allow  me  to  refer  to  other  positive  developments 
in the field of peace and security in the past year that 
confirm the contribution of multilateralism to progress 
in the field of peace and security. Ensuring peace and 
security through international cooperation is one of the 
main tasks of the Organization. Within that framework 
we  have  established  important  goals  for  ourselves 
in  the  past  couple  of  years,  and  we  have  proved  that 
working together can lead to concrete achievements and 
substantial results. That is the case with the adoption 
of the Arms Trade Treaty. We have managed to jointly 
deliver  a  concrete  tool  meant  to  ensure  a  safer  world 
and address the challenges affecting the security of all 
our citizens. We must continue on that path and bring 
the Treaty into force as soon as possible. I am pleased 
to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Romania  is  currently 
undertaking  legal  domestic  procedures  in  order  to 
ratify the Treaty as soon as possible.
is  expected 
in  other  areas 
of  multilateral  negotiations.  Halfway  to  the  next 
Review  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, proceedings at 
the Preparatory Committee, which is being chaired by 
Romania and which held its second session in Geneva 
in  April,  have  revealed  that  expectations  are  growing 
that more concrete results will be attained in reaching 
the  targets  established  in  the  2010  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty action plan.
Similar  progress 
Romania  is  a  strong  supporter  of  all  endeavours 
aimed at achieving comprehensive peace in the Middle 
East. We support all the initiatives of the Quartet and 
the full implementation of the road-map vision of two 
States — Israel and Palestine — living side by side in 
peace  and  security.  We  therefore  welcome  the  recent 
resumption  of  direct  negotiations  as  a  long-awaited 
step forward, made possible by the constant and tireless 
efforts  of  the  United  States  Administration.  We  are 
hopeful  that  both  parties  will  take  courageous  steps 
aimed  at  finding  a  durable  solution  to  a  problem  of 
supreme  concern  to  their  peoples,  the  region  and  the 
international community.
We are gratified that, since our last debate, important 
steps have been taken to implement the key provisions 
of the final document of the United Nations Conference 
32/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
on  Sustainable  Development,  “The  future  we  want” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex).  Romania  commends  the 
efforts and dedication of Brazil and Italy in facilitating 
the complex and strenuous negotiations that led to the 
establishment  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  and 
made  it  possible  to  convene  its  inaugural  meeting  on 
24  September.  As  a  member  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  sharing  a 
seat with Poland, Romania is joining efforts in that very 
important process that will craft a comprehensive and 
coherent set of goals for effective delivery and results 
at  all  levels,  in  accordance  with  the  Rio  de  Janeiro 
Conference  decisions.  The  new  framework  should 
reinforce  the  international  community’s  commitment 
to  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development. 
In  that  respect,  we  set  up  an  interministerial  ad  hoc 
working group to develop our national vision to frame 
the  future  goals  we  wish  to  promote,  along  with  our 
partners, during the ongoing negotiations on this issue.
In  our  view,  the  sustainable  development  goals 
(SDGs) should be universal and applicable to all States 
and  should  provide  references  and  clear  suggestions 
for  action  and  innovative  mechanisms  for  measuring 
their  implementation,  in  order  to  ensure  sustainable 
development.  At  the  same  time,  the  goals  should  be 
based  on  national  ownership  and  take  into  account 
differing  national  circumstances  so  as  to  provide 
political  space  and  the  right  to  development  for  each 
country,  and  should  address,  as  cross-cutting  issues, 
the  perspective  of  human  rights,  peace  and  security, 
good governance, gender equality, the rule of law and 
equity. Not least, we welcome the establishment of the 
intergovernmental committee to analyse options for an 
effective  sustainable  development  financing  strategy, 
and  we  encourage  its  coordination  with  the  other 
relevant  processes,  in  particular  the  Open  Working 
Group on the SDGs.
We strongly believe that the time is ripe to combine 
efforts  to  define  the  global  development  framework 
for  the  coming  decades.  The  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly represents the best opportunity for 
comprehensive and multilayered interaction to support 
those  endeavours.  The  theme  of  our  political  debate, 
as proposed by the President of the General Assembly, 
“The post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage”, 
is  a  confirmation  of  that,  and  we  are  committed  to 
contributing actively to that process.
As a current member of the Human Rights Council, 
we  believe  that  it  is  our  common  responsibility  to 
create  appropriate  conditions  of  human  dignity 
and  welfare  around  the  world  and  to  make  progress 
towards  ensuring  equality  among  all  human  beings. 
The Human Rights Council has proved itself up to its 
mandate, addressing in a prompt manner the situations 
of grave violations of human rights occurring in some 
countries, especially in Syria. We fully commend the 
activity of the Independent Commission of Inquiry on 
the human rights situation in Syria, which reported on 
the violations committed in that country.
We  highly  appreciate 
the  universal  periodic 
review  mechanism,  which  we  consider  a  very  useful 
and  successful  process.  We  hope  that  it  will  remain 
universal.  We  also  commend  the  professionalism  of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  and  we  strongly  believe  that  its 
independence  is  essential  for  the  fulfilment  of  the 
mandates of both the Council and the Office. 
Another major area where the specialized structures 
of the United Nations and their dedicated staff deserve 
our wholehearted appreciation is that of humanitarian 
assistance. In the past year, the number of people in need 
of  humanitarian  assistance  reached  an  unprecedented 
level.  Internal  and  international  conflicts,  organized 
crime, poverty, drought and severe violations of human 
rights  are  among  the  causes  of  that  evolution.  In  too 
many  situations,  the  assistance  offered  by  the  United 
Nations system, in close cooperation with international 
non-governmental  organizations  and 
international 
donors, is the only hope of survival for many thousands 
of  people.  We  commend  and  support  such  activities. 
Despite limited financial resources, we make efforts to 
contribute to the process. In that respect, I would like 
to mention the work of the Emergency Transit Centre 
in  Timisoara,  Romania.  The  Centre  has  proved  to  be 
a  refuge,  offering  safety  to  persons  in  urgent  need  of 
international  protection,  thus  creating  humanitarian 
space.  It  is  an  already  well-established  link  in  the 
global resettlement process. We are pleased to see that 
similar structures have been replicated in other regions 
of the world, and we express our readiness to engage 
and share our experiences with them.
Allow me now to mention some of our expectations 
for United Nations activities in the year to come. The 
long-standing  crisis  in  Syria  continued  over  the  past 
year,  with  increased  violence  that  has  claimed  more 
than 100,000 victims and produced more than 5 million 
refugees. The harsh confrontations between the Syrian 
army and opposition forces, which ultimately led to the 
13-48803
33/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
it 
that 
Romania  has  continuously  stated 
use  of  chemical  weapons,  have  triggered  the  outrage 
and firm condemnation of the international community.
is 
imperative for the international community to curb the 
escalation  of  violence  in  Syria.  We  favour  a  political 
solution  under  a  Syrian-led  transition  process,  based 
on  the  cooperation  of  all  Syrian  parties  with  the 
international  community,  with  a  view  to  preserving 
Syria’s territorial integrity. With the Security Council’s 
adoption yesterday of resolution 2118 (2013), Syria has 
been given another chance to return to the right path. 
We  urge  all  parties  to  respect  and  act  in  accordance 
with the provisions of that resolution, which creates the 
conditions  for  a  negotiated  peace  within  the  “Geneva 
II” process. In that new context, we call on all States 
not  yet  parties  to  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention 
to undertake the necessary internal measures to join it, 
in order to make sure that the use of such weapons in 
future is not only prohibited, but made impossible.
I would like to recognize yesterday’s historic call 
between  President  Rouhani  and  President  Obama 
as  a  major  breakthrough.  The  occurrence  of  such  a 
one-on-one conversation after more than two decades 
of silence gives us hope that Iran’s nuclear programme 
will  become  more  transparent  and  oriented  towards 
energy  alone.  We  await,  with  justifiable  interest,  the 
specific plan Minister Zarif will present in that respect 
in mid-October in Geneva.
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and 
special  political  missions  make  a  major  contribution 
to achieving the goals of international peace, stability 
and security. We welcome the inclusion in the agenda of 
this General Assembly session of a new item devoted to 
special political missions, and we appreciate the report 
prepared by the Secretariat for that item. Member States 
will thereby have a possibility to exchange views and 
make proposals for policy measures in order to better 
adapt special political missions to the expectations of 
international, regional and local communities.
Romania  welcomes  and  supports 
the  United  Nations 
and 
the  efforts 
level, 
the 
to  coordinate,  at 
multidimensional 
rule-of-law 
approach. At the same time, my country supports the 
gradual implementation of the responsibility-to-protect 
concept,  starting  with  regional  capacity-building  and 
early-warning and preventive functions.
cross-cutting 
The  world  is  made  up  of  regions,  and  each  and 
every  region  faces  its  own  challenges.  Efforts  to 
identify  negotiated  solutions  to  protracted  conflicts 
in  the  Black  Sea  region  —  the  Transnistrian  region, 
Nagorno  Karabakh,  Abkhazia  and  Ossetia  —  should 
remain high on our agenda.
increased 
engagement  with 
We believe that the actions of the United Nations 
in  the  field  of  peace  and  security  could  be  enhanced 
through 
regional 
organizations.  In  some  regions,  we  have  already 
experienced the advantages of that kind of cooperation 
with  regional  organizations,  whose  activities  are 
complementary to those of the United Nations system. 
As a strong advocate of the increased synergies between 
the United Nations system and regional organizations, I 
would like to bring to the attention of the Assembly the 
positive results obtained in recent years in promoting 
regional  cooperation  within  the  South-East  European 
Cooperation Process.
of 
through 
regional 
the 
Meeting 
challenges 
Regional dialogue has time and time again proved 
to  be  the  most  efficient  tool  for  overcoming  the 
persisting differences of opinion among our countries. 
This  is  particularly  true  of  South-East  Europe,  where 
regional cooperation is now more than ever crucial to 
further consolidating relations between countries and, 
at the same time, to developing the region itself.
change 
and 
interdependence 
cooperation 
represents  the  overriding  priority  of  the  years  ahead 
for  all  the  actors  involved.  The  South-East  European 
Process is the authentic voice of the region, as it is the 
only regional format that has significantly contributed, 
over the years, to the improvement of the overall relations 
among the participating States. Romania, which holds 
the  chairmanship-in-office  of  the  Process,  will  focus 
on results-oriented actions aimed at contributing, in the 
most concrete manner possible, to the development of 
the region.
As representatives of a country that has since 1990 
carried out a complex process of political, economic and 
democratic transition, we believe that the international 
community  needs  to  support  countries  undergoing 
democratization  processes.  The  challenges  that  such 
countries  face  are  complex:  promoting  democratic 
governance  and  the  rule  of  law;  addressing  specific 
aspects of past human rights violations; and promoting 
transitional justice. 
In order to make a contribution to that process, my 
delegation will put forward, during the current session 
of the General Assembly, a resolution on human rights, 
34/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
democracy and the rule of law in the context of the post-
2015  development  agenda.  Based  on  our  experience 
in  promoting,  during  the  March  2012  session  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  a  similar  resolution,  which 
was widely supported by 127 sponsors, we are hopeful 
that our initiative will receive the same level of support 
from the General Assembly.
to 
In  concluding,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment 
the  values  and  principles  of 
multilateralism  and  to  reiterate  to  the  Assembly 
my  country’s  strong  support  for  all  of  its  efforts  to 
implement the ambitious agenda ahead of us.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Vladimir  Makei,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Belarus.
Mr.  Makei  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I  will 
begin with a simple question: what is the key challenge 
facing  today’s  world?  I  believe  that  it  is  the  fact  that 
humankind’s societal evolution has not kept pace with 
globalization.  We  are  constantly  lagging  behind.  Our 
failure to adjust quickly and effectively has given rise 
to a range of political, economic and social problems. 
That  mismatch  between  technological  and  societal 
development has been the norm since the beginning of 
the industrial revolution, in the late eighteenth century. 
Furthermore, these days it represents a far more serious 
threat than ever before. The pace of globalization has 
been steadily accelerating, and therefore we have had 
to adapt much more quickly.
We need a mechanism that will enable us swiftly 
and  effectively  to  address  this  problem.  Such  a 
mechanism could appropriately be called “a new global 
world order”.
Today we can hardly say that we have a global order 
at  all,  as  the  notion  of  order  implies  stability,  which 
we do not have at present. The old rules are not being 
observed,  and  new  ones  have  not  been  established. 
We  permanently  find  ourselves  stricken  by  various 
global crises. The great Powers seek to provide global 
governance  by  means  of  clubs  whose  membership 
is  limited  to  themselves.  Other  countries  wager  on 
regionalism, and medium-sized and small countries see 
their rights infringed at every turn. 
Overall, 
the  current  geopolitical  situation 
is 
characterized  by  an  increasing  dynamic  of  multilevel 
competition as well as by the global governance crisis. 
What is even more alarming is that all of this is taking 
place against a backdrop of increasing global inequality. 
It is clear that if we cannot arrive at an order by design, 
anarchy will come to us by default.
Let me state that Belarus has no clear-cut recipe as 
to how to build a new global order. After all, this can 
hardly be done quickly and simultaneously. The great 
Goethe once said: 
“Man is not born to solve the problem of the universe, 
but  to  find  out  what  he  has  to  do  and  to  restrain 
himself within the limits of his comprehension”.
Let  us  try  to  proceed  with  precisely  this  logic  in 
mind. We are convinced of the need to move forward 
first and foremost in areas where there is a particular 
urgency to do so.
We  believe  that  we  should  start  by  strengthening 
the  role  of  the  State  in  today’s  world.  The  industrial 
revolution  once  made  the  State  strong  and  the  idea 
thereof appealing.
Indeed,  the  history  of  the  past  two  centuries  has 
not  been  a  narrative  of  military  power.  Rather,  it  has 
been  a  story  of  the  growing  force  of  the  principle  of 
self-determination, that is, the aspiration of nations to 
establish  their  own  States,  which  can  then  effectively 
promote the interests of their citizens. It is no wonder 
that in times of crisis and uncertainty, the great leaders 
of the past saw the strengthening of the State’s role as 
a solution. United States President Franklin Roosevelt, 
faced  with  the  Great  Depression,  thought  that  only 
a  strong  State  could  address  the  problems  of  the 
“forgotten man”.
Over  the  past  several  decades,  globalization, 
especially in its unregulated phase, has clearly reduced 
the role and importance of the State. We find ourselves 
in  a  paradoxical  situation.  On  the  one  hand,  global 
processes  have  curtailed  State  power.  On  the  other 
hand,  tackling  the  growing  transnational  challenges 
sparked by globalization requires strong States. What 
do we mean by this?
Let  us  start  from  the  premise  that  we  all  live  in 
a  very  diverse  world.  States,  reflecting  this  range  of 
diversity, assume very different forms in their domestic 
and internal organization. History has shown that it is 
impossible to boil all States down to the same level.
We  are  convinced  that  it  makes  sense  to  assess 
States,  and  let  me  here  resort  to  philosophy,  on  their 
content rather than their form. In other words, a strong 
State  is  an  accountable  State,  in  both  domestic  and 
foreign policy, regardless of its form.
13-48803
35/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
Let  us  then  build  relations  based  on  the  notion 
of  content  rather  than  form.  Indeed,  why  does  the 
domestic  political  situation  of,  say,  Belarus  or  Cuba 
serve as a basis for some countries to pursue policies of 
sanctions  and  persecution  —  policies  that  contravene 
international  law  —  against  those  States?  After  all, 
it  was  the  people  of  those  countries  who  determined 
their form and they do not wish another, because their 
Governments  pursue  accountable  policies.  By  and 
large, the people have no objections to them in terms 
of content.
The call for a strong State, of course, has nothing in 
common with a call for dictatorship. Franklin Roosevelt 
said: 
“History proves that dictatorships do not grow out 
of  strong  and  successful  Governments,  but  out  of 
weak and helpless ones”.
State  weakness  is  no  longer  a  humanitarian 
concern but a problem of international security. It is a 
guarantee that we will fail to cope with the mismatch 
generated at the global level by the different paces of 
the globalization and societal adaptation processes.
We  deem  the  next  area  of  focus  to  be  efforts  to 
ensure  global  convergence.  It  is  worth  pointing  out 
that  such  attempts  have  often  been  undertaken  in  the 
past.  Unfortunately,  the  areas  of  application  were 
inappropriate  from  the  start.  Convergence  basically 
occurred  in  the  context  of  attempts  by  the  mighty  of 
the world to impose their own political and economic 
models on other countries. That was outright coercion. 
As a result, all such attempts have backfired.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
In  today’s  world,  completely  different  approaches 
are needed — approaches aimed at unity and stability 
rather  than  disunity  and  anarchy.  We  need  social 
convergence. To put it simply, we must work to create 
a robust middle class in every State, without coercion. 
After  all,  all  countries  have  an  interest  in  a  sizeable 
national  middle  class.  History  has  clearly  shown  that 
success in that area will ensure the domestic stability 
of a State and foster its interest in pursuing a foreign 
policy of international stability. We are convinced that 
the benefits produced by the middle class at the national 
level can have a similar impact at the international level. 
A large number of middle-income countries worldwide 
would be the best safeguard to ensure a truly multipolar, 
fair  and  stable  world.  Such  a  group  of  States  would 
seek  neither  diktat  nor  dominance  over  others.  What 
is more, having just recently emerged from the grip of 
poverty and domestic instability, many countries have 
fully  realized  the  importance  of  global  development 
and of solidarity aimed at the least developed countries.
Building  on  that  understanding,  Belarus  is  keen 
to  rekindle  the  topic  of  middle-income  countries  at 
the  international  level.  In  May,  we  held  a  regional 
conference on middle-income countries in the context 
of  sustainable  development.  We  witnessed  immense 
interest in that event. Likewise, Belarus welcomes the 
high-level  international  conference  on  middle-income 
countries held in June in Costa Rica. Those and other 
relevant  events  point  to  the  need  for  more  focused 
work within the United Nations system on cooperation 
with  middle-income  countries.  At  the  same  time,  a 
number  of  ongoing  trends  are  working  to  prevent  the 
strengthening of the middle class in those States. The 
unfettered globalization ardently carried out by the so-
called  market  fundamentalists  has  served  to  increase 
inequality in the world and hollow out the middle class. 
Many,  in  both  developed  and  developing  countries, 
are  already  confronting  the  resulting  political  and 
economic consequences.
We pin our hopes for improvement on the ongoing 
effort  at  the  United  Nations  to  design  a  post-2015 
United  Nations  development  agenda.  The  world  is 
fast approaching the 2015 completion deadline set for 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  My  country’s 
current view is that the key lesson to be drawn, even 
at  this  stage,  is  that  there  can  be  no  lasting  progress 
in  today’s  world  in  any  individual  area  if  other  areas 
are neglected. That is because everyone and every thing 
in the world — people, economies and threats — has 
become highly interconnected. For instance, one cannot 
succeed  in  tackling  migration  without  addressing 
poverty,  conflicts  and  environmental  disasters.  That 
perception, in turn, points to the need to set the stage 
for  a  comprehensive  post-2015  development  agenda. 
It  is  highly  commendable  that  the  United  Nations, 
its  Member  States  and  many  other  stakeholders  have 
already  been  actively  engaged  in  the  preparatory 
process. Likewise, it is gratifying that everyone views 
the  paradigm  of  sustainable  development  as  the  basis 
for  the  future  agenda.  That  is  the  proper  course,  as 
sustainable  development  —  based  on  its  economic, 
social  and  environmental  components  —  is  the  best 
approach to meeting the global development challenges 
in a truly comprehensive manner.
36/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Belarus  shares  the  view  that  the  sustainable 
development  goals  should  be  at  the  heart  of  the  next 
agenda.  We  see  the  need  to  develop  such  goals  in  as 
many  areas  as  possible.  It  is  particularly  crucial  that 
they address those areas not covered by the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  such  as,  for  example,  migration, 
energy and employment. We believe that each and every 
goal  must  be  achieved  through  appropriate  thematic 
global  partnerships  among  States, 
international 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector.  A 
good example of that is the global partnership against 
slavery  and  trafficking  in  persons  initiative,  which  is 
now  being  successfully  implemented.  We  hope  that  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  development  will  help  in 
controlling  globalization  and,  more  important,  ensure 
that it is fair. After all, it must work in the interests of 
all rather than of a few. Drawing on a historical analogy, 
one  can  argue  that  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
represents our future, comprehensive “new deal” — like 
the one launched by Franklin D. Roosevelt. The United 
Nations serves as the indispensable platform — thanks 
to its unquestionable legitimacy, universal membership 
and  comprehensive  scope  —  for  the  international 
community to appropriately reconcile and subsequently 
implement its interests in terms of the new deal.
The greatest danger in geostrategic uncertainty is 
not the uncertainty itself; rather, it is the desire to take 
action  in  a  complex  setting  using  yesterday’s  logic, 
namely,  a  business-as-usual  attitude.  We  are  certain 
that only by shaking off such an approach will we be 
able  to  forge  a  global  order  to  benefit  all  people  on 
Earth.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Rui Machete, Minister of State 
and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Portugal.
Mr.  Machete  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  As  this  is  the  first  time 
that  I  take  the  floor  before  the  General  Assembly, 
at  the  headquarters  of  international  legitimacy  and 
multilateralism,  I  would  like  to  begin  by  reiterating 
Portugal’s  firm  and  unwavering  commitment  to  the 
United Nations, its Charter and the values and principles 
that guide its action.
I congratulate the President on his election. His long 
international career and vast experience in the United 
Nations system have placed him in a privileged position 
to preside over the central organ of the Organization. 
His  election  reflects  a  recognition  on  the  part  of  all 
Member States of the strong commitment to the United 
Nations  and  multilateralism  of  his  country,  Antigua 
and Barbuda, the Caribbean Community and the Group 
of Latin American and Caribbean States. I would also 
like  to  convey  my  country’s  acknowledgement  of  the 
dynamism and dedication with which the President of 
the General Assembly at its previous session, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić,  performed  his  duties.  I  wish  also  to  express 
special  appreciation 
the  Secretary-General’s 
untiring work in defence of peace during an extremely 
challenging period for the international community. As 
always, the Secretary-General can continue to count on 
Portugal’s support. 
for 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  strongly  condemn  the 
terrorist attack that occurred in Nairobi and to deliver a 
message of solidarity to the authorities and the people 
of  Kenya.  Acts  such  as  those  remind  us  that  efforts 
to  combat  terrorism  continue  to  be  of  paramount 
importance.  We  will  not  live  in  a  world  of  peace  and 
liberty  or  in  an  environment  of  tolerance  and  mutual 
respect until we eradicate terrorism.
The  Organization  was  created  to  save  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war, basing its action 
on  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights,  in  the  dignity 
and worth of the human person. The United Nations has 
undertaken much in its 68 years to achieve those goals 
globally.  Unfortunately,  in  many  regions  those  goals 
remain an illusion. Such is the case in Syria, where the 
horrors  of  war  and  the  unspeakable  suffering  of  the 
population  now  prevail.  The  devastating  images  that 
reach us daily show a country that is being physically 
destroyed.  The  numbers  speak  for  themselves:  more 
than 100,000 dead, almost 7 million people in need of 
humanitarian assistance, 4 million internally displaced 
persons  and  2  million  refugees.  A  tragedy  on  that 
scale is the result of serious and systematic violations 
of  human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
aggravated  by  the  recent  and  unacceptable  use  of 
chemical  weapons,  something  we  believed  had  been 
universally banished forever.
The  world  was  shocked  at  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Ghouta  on  21  August.  I  want  to  be 
very  clear  about  this:  the  use  of  chemical  weapons 
represents  a  violation  of  international  law,  a  heinous 
crime  and  a  regression  from  civilization.  We  cannot 
stand idle in the face of such a violation of the barrier 
between  civilization  and  barbarism,  a  barrier that  the 
international  community  has  vowed  never  to  cross 
again.  We,  the  members  of  the  Assembly,  once  again 
face  a  serious  international  crisis  where  we  are  in  a 
13-48803
37/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
position to reaffirm the centrality of the United Nations 
in  solving  it.  With  the  Security  Council  blocked  and 
powerless,  it  was  the  absence  of  the  United  Nations 
in  the  period  when  prevention  and  control  were  still 
possible  that  allowed  the  Syrian  crisis  to  reach  such 
dramatic and unacceptable political and humanitarian 
proportions.  We  would  certainly  have  had  fewer 
casualties and refugees, and would surely not now be 
dealing with a huge international crisis resulting from 
the use of chemical weapons. Now, when an agreement 
has  been  reached  to  remove  the  threat  posed  by  the 
chemical arsenal of the Syrian regime once and for all, 
the  international  community  has  again  turned  to  the 
Security Council.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  enormous  political 
and diplomatic efforts of the United States and Russia, 
with  the  involvement  of  Joint  Special  Envoy  Lakhdar 
Brahimi.  The  commitment  and  spirit  of  compromise 
that  they  demonstrated  in  the    process  enabled  them 
to  arrive  at  an  important  agreement  and  the  adoption 
yesterday  of  Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013), 
which,  hopefully,  will  ensure  its  implementation. 
The  Security  Council,  in  close  collaboration  with  the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 
has  assumed  its  responsibilities  under  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, finally creating a prospect for hope 
for a global political solution to the Syrian issue. It is 
now essential that we seize the opportunity created by 
the  initiative  on  chemical  weapons  to  consolidate  the 
political-diplomatic  track  and  hold  the  “Geneva  II” 
conference.  Nevertheless,  the  primary  responsibility 
for resolving the Syrian crisis lies with the parties to the 
conflict. Without their will and commitment, no political 
solution is possible. The international community must 
keep  up  the  pressure  on  the  parties,  particularly  the 
Damascus regime, with a view to achieving a peaceful 
and sustainable democratic future in which every sector 
of Syrian society feels represented.
The Middle East has also seen some positive recent 
developments with the resumption of the peace process 
between Israel and Palestine. I would like to reaffirm 
before  the  Assembly  Portugal’s  full  support  for  that 
process.  I  congratulate  the  United  States  of  America 
on its initiative and applaud the Palestinian and Israeli 
authorities for the courage and leadership shown in their 
decision to resume negotiations. There can be no lasting 
peace, stability or security in the Middle East unless the 
question of Palestine is settled. The present opportunity 
to  ensure  security  for  all  and  justice,  finally,  for  the 
Palestinians  must  not  be  missed.  We  have  a  unique 
opportunity to find a peaceful solution on the basis of 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  internationally  agreed 
parameters  that  establishes  a  sovereign,  independent 
and  viable  Palestinian  State  and  addresses  Israel’s 
security concerns.
Also  in  the  Middle  East,  we  have  been  following 
with  great  concern  the  prolonged  deadlock  in  the 
search for a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue. It is 
regrettable  that,  despite  all  the  diplomatic  efforts  and 
pressure  on  the  part  of  the  international  community, 
no solid progress has been made so far. Nevertheless, 
we  view  as  positive  signs  the  recent  statements  made 
by  high-ranking  Iranian  officials,  in  particular  by 
President Hassan Rouhani here in the General Assembly 
(see  A/68/PV.6).  I  appeal  to  the  Iranian  authorities 
to  translate  those  encouraging  political  signals  into 
concrete  steps  conducive  to  a  negotiated  solution  that 
can  restore  the  international  community’s  confidence 
in a peaceful and civilian Iranian nuclear programme.
Another  issue  of  concern  is  the  situation  in  the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  where  the  constitutional 
order  has  been  subverted  since  the  coup  d’état  of 
12 April 2012. As a member of the European Union, the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP) 
and the United Nations, and in close coordination with 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States, 
as  well  as  through  bilateral  measures,  Portugal  is 
continuing with its efforts to help the people of Guinea-
Bissau  overcome  the  current  crisis.  We  acknowledge 
the  work  done  by  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General Ramos-Horta to promote a dialogue 
among the main political actors with a view to restoring 
the constitutional order. The formation of an inclusive 
Government was, in that sense, a step forward.
However, 
relations  with 
restoring  constitutional  order  and 
the 
normalizing  Guinea-Bissau’s 
international  community  require 
that  presidential 
and  legislative  elections  be  held,  in  accordance  with 
the  commitments  undertaken  by  the  current  Guinean 
authorities  and  as  reiterated  in  the  press  statement 
issued  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  on 
11 September. We are, however, very concerned about 
the possibility that has been raised of a new extension 
of the transitional period. The international community 
should  also  emphasize  that  for  the  elections  to  be 
free, fair and transparent, the current authorities must 
guarantee that all Guinean citizens, without exception, 
can  participate  in  those  elections,  in  full  enjoyment 
38/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
of their rights, including the rights of the freedoms of 
speech  and  association.  Only  a  new  Government  that 
enjoys the legitimacy conferred by a free popular vote 
and  is  appointed  in  accordance  with  the  Constitution 
can  promote  long-overdue  reforms  in  the  security, 
administration and justice sectors.
The  crisis  in  Guinea-Bissau  also  has  clear  and 
worrying  connections  with  the  Sahel  region  through 
drug-trafficking  routes.  Europe,  and  especially  its 
southern  countries, 
in 
the  Sahel  with  particular  concern.  I  can  assure  the 
Assembly  that  we  will  continue  to  make  every  effort 
to help stabilize the region. In that context, the United 
Nations  integrated  strategy  for  the  Sahel  represents  a 
major contribution.
the  situation 
is  following 
Portugal  is  currently  co-President  of  the  Western 
Mediterranean  forum  known  as  the  5+5  initiative, 
which  brings  together  10  countries  on  the  northern 
and southern Mediterranean coasts. The dialogue and 
confidence-building  that  that  informal  instrument 
provides  represents  important  added  value  for  its 
members and the region. We are therefore engaged in 
exploring all of its potential for cooperation.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  defends  the 
importance  of  using  international  mechanisms  to 
promote  the  economic  and  social  advancement  of  all 
peoples. In the noble spirit of the United Nations and 
following  the  historic  and  inspiring  launch  in  2000 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  be  a 
critical launching pad for defining our priorities and the 
path we will follow in our common efforts towards the 
2015 summit at which we will adopt our development 
principles and goals for the coming years.
I commend the President for the timeliness of his 
choice  of  theme  for  this  general  debate,  “The  post-
2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  On 
25 September, I had an opportunity to participate in the 
special  event  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
which  enabled  us  to  thoroughly  discuss  the  progress 
achieved to date on the MDGs and provide important 
guidance for our future work. It is our conviction that 
the set of MDGs should serve as the reference point for 
establishing the new development agenda, which should 
maintain a focus on poverty reduction and sustainable 
development in all its dimensions, while giving special 
attention to the needs of least developed countries.
But we need a broader, more inclusive and strategic 
vision. We must go beyond the traditional relationship 
between donors and recipients to create partnerships that 
involve new international actors. For Portugal, different 
modalities  of  assistance,  new  sources  of  financing 
and  a  strengthened  principle  of  shared  responsibility, 
leadership  and  ownership  on  the  part  of  developing 
countries are the main guiding principles for the post-
2015 development agenda. The inaugural meeting of the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
was  politically  highly  significant.  Portugal  remains 
committed to ensuring that the Forum acts as a catalyst 
for international efforts, ensuring a more efficient and 
coherent link between the various processes in the area 
of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
In  the  context  of  the  outcome  of  the  2012  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  I 
would like to stress the importance of progress on the 
issue of  oceans, which is a crucial matter for a maritime 
country  like  Portugal.  We  welcome  Member  States’ 
commitment to discussing the issue of the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biodiversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction. In this context, Portugal 
is  strongly  in  favour  of  the  negotiation  and  adoption 
of an international instrument in the framework of the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Reforms and institutional innovations such as those 
I  have  just  mentioned  represent  important  changes 
in  the  architecture  of  the  United  Nations,  adapting 
and  preparing  it  for  new  times  and  new  challenges. 
However, the reform of our Organization will never be 
complete without Security Council reform, including of 
its working methods and, above all, of its composition. 
It is increasingly difficult to justify why countries such 
as Brazil and India are not permanent members of the 
Security  Council.  As  stated  on  previous  occasions, 
Portugal  is  of  the  view  that  Africa  also  deserves 
permanent representation in that body. It is imperative 
that Africa be treated in a way that is just and reflects its 
size, economic growth and its weight in today’s world.
I take this opportunity to congratulate the African 
Union and its member States on the fiftieth anniversary 
of the continent’s regional organization.
Portugal firmly believes in multilateralism and in 
the  United  Nations  as  the  centre  for  harmonizing  the 
actions of nations in the attainment of common ends. 
We contribute actively to the work of our Organization 
through a committed participation in its bodies, but we 
13-48803
39/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
have not yet had a chance to serve on the Human Rights 
Council. We therefore hope to be able to count on the 
support of the Assembly in the elections for that body 
to take place in 2014. We accept and have implemented 
virtually  all  of  the  86  recommendations  that  resulted 
from our experience in the Council’s universal periodic 
review (UPR) of 2009. We will submit to a new UPR 
in 2014. 
If the Assembly invests its trust in us to elect us to 
serve  for  the  2015-2017  triennium,  we  will  fulfil  our 
mandate in the deep conviction that the United Nations 
human-rights-protection system should remain strong, 
independent,  impartial  and  demanding,  and  that,  in 
this  regard,  we  should  always  resolve  to  aim  higher. 
We  will  continue  in  the  same  vein  as  we  approached 
our  membership  of  the  Security  Council  in  2011-
2012, characterized by openness to dialogue and by a 
constructive and balanced attitude, and seeking to build 
bridges and generate consensus, without relinquishing 
values and fundamental principles.
The Portuguese language is the common element of 
unity that brings together the diversity of States of the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. We are 
a Community of eight countries, with about 250 million 
speakers  spread  across  four  continents.  Portuguese  is 
the third most widely spoken European language in the 
world, with a growing role and status on the international 
scene,  both  as  a  vehicle  of  communication  and  as  an 
economic language used in trade and business, culture 
and social networks.
In October, Lisbon will host the second conference 
on  the  status  of  the  Portuguese  language  in  the 
international system, at which participants will consider 
the  challenges  faced  by  their  common  language. 
Portuguese is currently the official or working language 
of several international organizations, including some 
specialized agencies of the United Nations. The CPLP 
has the ambition and goal of seeing Portuguese adopted 
as  an  official  language  of  the  United  Nations.  I  take 
this opportunity to salute the Mozambican presidency 
of  the  CPLP  and  its  efforts  to  strengthen  and  deepen 
our Community.
I conclude by wishing the greatest success for the 
General  Assembly  at  this  session.  The  Assembly  can 
count on Portugal’s active contribution and support in 
upholding  international  law,  promoting  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, defending and promoting human 
rights, and working towards greater prosperity for all of 
humankind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Nabil Fahmy, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Mr. Fahmy (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): It gives me 
pleasure to congratulate Mr. John Ashe and his friendly 
country,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  upon  his  assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth  session.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my 
sincere  appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić  of  Serbia,  for  his  efforts  during  the  previous 
session.
I reiterate our support to the Secretary-General as 
he strives to realize the purposes and principles of the 
Charter.  I  also  welcome  the  choice  of  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”  as  the  main 
theme of this session, considering the high priority that 
the United Nations and the peoples of the world accord 
to the achievement of development in all its dimensions.
Allow  me  to  deviate  from  customary  practice  for 
a  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  by  conveying  to 
the Assembly a message that comes not only from the 
President  of  Egypt,  Mr.  Adly  Mansour,  but  from  the 
people  of  my  country  —  the  Egyptians  who  laid  the 
foundations  of  human  civilization  and  have  recently 
inspired peoples around the world. 
Egypt  holds  a  unique  position  in  the  history  of 
humankind, past and present. Its status, role and influence 
derive  essentially  from  its  culture  and  civilization.  It 
would have been a historical inconsistency had the will 
of  the  Egyptians  remained  shackled  at  the  dawn  of  a 
new century, and had our youth remained deprived of 
the right to design their own destiny and future. It was 
therefore natural for our people to take to the streets on 
25 January 2011 to declare their determination to build 
a democratic and modern State in which their children 
could enjoy freedom, dignity and social justice.
This is the Egypt that millions of my countrymen 
and women chose then — the same Egypt they yearned 
for on 30 June 2013. In doing so, they showed the world 
that the will of the people cannot be broken and that it 
can  grant  authority,  just  as  it  can  remove  it  from  the 
hands of those who abuse it.
The  Egyptians  have  an  ambitious  vision  for  the 
future that can be achieved by working systematically 
in  a  reasonable  time  frame.  Its  success  is  based  on  a 
society  that  is  open  to  all  peaceful  political  currents, 
that  pluralistically  embraces  the  diversity  of  all  its 
40/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
members, and that inclusively ensures the equal rights 
and  duties  of  all  citizens  through  the  rule  of  law  and 
equality before justice. The principles and practices of 
this  vision  are  consistent  with  the  fundamental  rules 
that govern democratic practices throughout the world, 
in particular respect for peaceful dialogue, the rejection 
of violence, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Our  conviction  that  Egyptians  have  the  right  to 
fulfil such a vision underpins the road map that Egypt 
has  been  implementing  since  3  July.  That  road  map 
includes a national agenda to build the institutions of a 
democratic State in a specific time frame. All Egyptians 
are invited to participate in all phases of the political 
process, as long as they are committed to renouncing 
violence and terrorism or incitement thereto.
Work is under way, in line with the road map, on 
several tracks. To date, it has succeeded in establishing 
the  principles  of  justice,  freedom  and  democracy  as 
bases  for  governance.  Work  is  under  way  on  the  new 
constitution, to be followed by parliamentary elections 
and  presidential  elections,  bringing  the  transitional 
phase to an end by next spring. We are determined to 
fully implement the road map. This requires us to give 
the  utmost  priority  to  preserving  security,  enforcing 
the  law  and  countering  any  attempts  to  intimidate 
or  humiliate  us  or  hinder  our  efforts.  Some  parts  of 
Egypt were recently hit by desperate terrorist attacks. 
Among their victims were Egyptians from all walks of 
life — men and women, young and old, Muslims and 
non-Muslims.  Those  hideous  acts  of  terrorism  sought 
to  undermine  the  democratic  process  and  to  destroy 
our  economy.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  and  reiterate 
in the strongest terms our full confidence that the brave 
Egyptian  people,  who  succeeded  in  imposing  their 
will, can eradicate terrorism within the framework of 
the rule of law. I trust that the international community 
will stand firmly with the Egyptian people in the fight 
against those who commit or advocate for violence, and 
will accept no attempt to justify or tolerate it.
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  convey  my  deep 
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Kenya and Pakistan on the loss of innocent lives as a 
result of the latest terrorist attack.
The  message  I  am  carrying  from  Egyptians, 
particularly our youth, who are joining me here today 
and  representing  their  ancient  country,  would  not  be 
complete  without  mentioning  Egypt’s  aspirations  to 
enjoy  more  democratic  international  relations  and 
stronger  ties  of  cooperation  between  our  people  and 
the rest of the world. Those relations should be based 
on  the  principles  of  independence,  mutual  respect 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other 
countries and on a foreign policy founded on equality 
and  a  constructive,  civilized  vision  for  the  future. 
Egypt’s  foreign  policy  is  now  a  reflection  of  the  will 
of  our  people,  and  it  is  formulated  in  line  with  our 
national  interests  and  security  with  no  regard  to  any 
other consideration.
We  fully  recognize  that  Egypt’s  national  security 
is  linked  to  the  security  and  concerns  of  our  Arab 
nation.  Given  its  geographical  location,  history  and 
identity,  Egypt  is  committed  to  continuing  to  defend 
the  interests  of  its  African  continent,  to  address  the 
issues  of  importance  to  the  Islamic  world,  to  spread 
the Islamic values of moderation and tolerance, and to 
promote  dialogue  among  divine  religions.  Egypt  also 
remains  committed  to  tackling  the  challenges  facing 
the  South  at  a  time  when  the  world  is  witnessing  an 
imbalance of power.
I  would  now  like  to  briefly  highlight  Egypt’s 
position on several issues of high priority in our foreign 
policy.
In Syria, the tragedy has now extended to the resort 
to  chemical  weapons.  We  strongly  condemn  their  use 
and support the agreement reached between the Russian 
Federation  and  the  United  States,  as  well  as  Security 
Council resolution 2118 (2013). While the humanitarian 
crisis resulting from the fighting continues to intensify, 
the Syrian State itself is on the verge of disintegration. 
It  is  imperative  to  reach  a  political  solution  as  soon 
as  possible  that  would  establish  the  freedom,  dignity 
and  democracy  to  which  the  people  of  Syria  aspire 
and preserve the unity of the State. We hope that can 
be  achieved  through  the  holding  of  the  “Geneva  II” 
conference, so that a transitional authority can be put in 
place to end the civil war and the foreign interventions 
that we have long warned against.
The Palestinian question remains the main source 
of  tension  in  our  region.  Palestine  is  still  suffering 
the  effects  of  the  ongoing  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab 
territories and the intensification of settlement activities. 
The hope for achieving a two-State solution was until 
recently  on  the  verge  of  fading  away  irrevocably. 
Given that bleak scenario, we welcome and appreciate 
the  recent  efforts  of  the  United  States  to  advance  the 
resumption  of  Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations.  The 
13-48803
41/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
commitment of both sides to engaging in a process of 
time-bound  negotiations  is  a  significant  development. 
We should all support the ongoing negotiations so that 
they may lead to the final settlement of the Palestinian 
question, which has continued since the past century.
to  self-determination  and 
Egypt  will  continue  to  support  the  right  of  the 
Palestinian  people 
the 
establishment  of  an  independent  and  sovereign  State, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, on all the territories 
of the West Bank and Gaza and in accordance with the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the relevant terms of reference. 
I reiterate that the needs of the Gaza population must 
be  met.  The  failure  to  do  so  has  become  politically 
and morally unacceptable. We therefore call on Israel 
and  the  international  community  to  shoulder  their 
responsibilities and ensure that the Palestinians in Gaza 
have access to basic supplies. We are ready to cooperate 
with the Palestinian authority and all concerned parties 
to  agree  on  appropriate  arrangements  that  guarantee 
the delivery of provisions in legal and transparent ways.
The  Assembly  will  agree  that  a  new  Middle  East 
will  not  emerge  until  the  right  to  equal  security  is 
ensured and the threats posed by the existence in our 
region of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass 
destruction  are  eliminated.  The  situation  threatens 
the credibility of the non-proliferation regime and the 
United  Nations.  For  that  reason,  and  to  preserve  that 
credibility, I would like to introduce to the Assembly 
today an initiative consisting of the following steps.
First,  we  must  invite  all  countries  of  the  Middle 
East and the five permanent members of the Security 
Council  to  deposit  official  letters  with  the  Secretary-
General stating their support for declaring the Middle 
East a region free from nuclear, chemical and biological 
weapons of mass destruction.
Secondly, the countries of the region that have not 
signed or ratified any of the international conventions 
on weapons of mass destruction should commit, before 
the end of 2013, to simultaneously signing and ratifying 
the  relevant  conventions.  They  should  also  deposit 
documentation of their accession to those conventions 
with  the  Security  Council.  I  invite  the  Secretary-
General to coordinate such steps so that they are carried 
out simultaneously to ensure their success.
Those  actions  translate  into  the  following.  Israel 
must  accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons as a non-nuclear State, ratify the 
Chemical Weapons Convention, and sign and ratify the 
Biological Weapons Convention. Syria must ratify the 
Biological Weapons Convention and take the remaining 
steps it has pledged to take in relation to the Chemical 
Weapons Convention. Egypt must ratify the Biological 
Weapons Convention and sign and ratify the Chemical 
Weapons  Convention,  provided  that  all  countries  of 
the Middle East complete measures of accession to the 
international conventions prohibiting weapons of mass 
destruction and related arrangements and treaties.
Thirdly,  we  must  pursue  international  efforts  to 
ensure that the delayed 2012 conference to establish a 
Middle East zone free of weapons of mass destruction 
is convened as soon as possible, preferably before the 
end of 2013 and by the spring of 2014 at the latest.
Egypt’s roots go deep in Africa. We are proud of 
the  many  positive  changes  that  Africa  has  witnessed 
and  of  the  strides  the  continent  has  taken  towards 
democracy  and  development.  Yet  Africa  remains  in 
need of concerted national, regional and international 
efforts  to  enable  the  continent  to  resolve  its  conflicts 
and challenges. Accordingly, Egypt will soon establish 
an Egyptian agency for development partnership. Most 
of  its  future  resources  will  be  directed  to  African 
countries  so  that  they  can  benefit  from  Egyptian 
technical expertise and assets.
level 
unless 
comprehensive 
We  cannot 
talk  about  democracy 
in  current 
international  relations  and  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international 
and 
substantial  reform  of  the  United  Nations  takes  place, 
so  that  the  Organization  is  better  able  to  respond  to 
challenges  and  to  meet  the  aspirations  of  peoples 
worldwide. The only logical and sound way to achieve 
that desired outcome is the reform and expansion of the 
Security  Council.  Egypt  therefore  renews  its  call  for 
an  end  to  the  monopoly  of  permanent  members  over 
the  decision-making  process  in  the  Council  and  for 
the rectification of the historical injustice inflicted on 
Africa. The continent does not have a permanent seat 
on the Council and is poorly represented in the category 
of  non-permanent  members.  Africa  will  not  renounce 
its  demands  to  obtain  the  permanent  membership  it 
deserves, as specified in the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the Sirte Declaration.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  highlight  our 
priority issues within the United Nations system. They 
include  strengthening  the  international  human  rights 
framework,  addressing  the  absence  of  democracy  in 
international relations, accelerating the achievement of 
42/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
fighting  corruption, 
the Millennium Development Goals, realizing nuclear 
disarmament  and 
including 
recovering  the  assets  stolen  by  key  members  of  the 
regimes  recently  brought  down  by  our  peoples.  We 
reiterate that we are determined to continue empowering 
women  nationally  and  internationally,  to  protecting 
human rights, and to allowing our youth to contribute 
effectively to the elaboration of Egypt’s vision for the 
world and for its future. 
I take this opportunity to welcome the appointment 
a few months ago by the Secretary-General of a Special 
Envoy on Youth who comes from the Arab world. We 
must  also  exert  concerted  efforts  at  the  international 
level to combat terrorism and strengthen the capacity 
of  the  United  Nations  to  coordinate  those  efforts  and 
address the root causes of terrorism.
In conclusion, I truly hope that the message I have 
delivered on behalf of the people and the President of 
Egypt has been received by the Assembly today. I also 
hope that the aspirations it identified will be realized so 
that we may achieve progress, peace and development 
and that next year we may reap the fruits of our labour. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Erlan Abdyldayev, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic. 
Mr. Abdyldayev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
Thirteen  years  have  passed  since  the  adoption  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  and 
the  established  deadline  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals is rapidly approaching. The world 
has changed since then, and we anticipate that, in the 
next 15 years, it will change a great deal more. 
In  that  context,  the  main  theme  of  the  general 
debate, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting the 
stage”, is obviously very appropriate and relevant. We 
are  convinced  that  the  new  development  agenda  will 
provide a clear vision for our post-2015 development. It 
should be formulated in the best spirit of the Millennium 
Development Goals, with special attention to the issues 
of poverty eradication, education and health care, the 
economy and employment, governance, agriculture and 
food availability, energy, peace and security.
The need for a common agenda is unquestionable. 
All countries must enthusiastically embark on the path 
of sustainable development. The global challenges can 
be effectively met if they are included as core priorities 
in each country’s development strategy. 
Kyrgyzstan  has  done  its  part.  That  is  reflected 
in  the  national  sustainable  development  strategy  of 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic  for  2013-2017,  which  identifies 
five-year targets and plans for a transition to sustainable 
development,  culminating  in  2017.  Our  vision  is  to 
form a stable country where human rights, freedom and 
security  are  guaranteed,  where  a  multi-ethnic  society 
is  governed  with  equal  adherence  to  the  rule  of  law, 
and  where  all  prerequisites  for  sustainable  economic 
growth and a decent standard of life are the norm. The 
tasks ahead are complex, and we believe they should be 
addressed in partnership with the United Nations and 
the international community.
The main strategic resource for the green economic 
growth  of  Kyrgyzstan  is  water.  The  role  of  water  has 
increased  significantly  due  to  the  major  challenge  of 
sustainable development posed by global climate change, 
which is already affecting our region negatively. Most 
importantly with regard to the state of water resources, 
Kyrgyzstan’s  glaciers  have  shrunk  by  30  per  cent  as 
a  result  of  global  warming.  According  to  preliminary 
expert  forecasts,  unless  urgent  measures  are  taken 
there  will  be  practically  no  glaciers  or  snowfields  on 
the country’s territory by the year 2100. Those melting 
waters are the primary source of the rivers of Central 
Asia.
This  ongoing  negative  trend  may  well  lead  to  a 
substantial  reduction  of  river  flow  in  Kyrgyzstan, 
and  consequently  to  social  and  economic  tensions  in 
the  region  as  a  whole.  We  must  pursue  our  work  in 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. The relevant 
international  financial  and  ecological  organizations 
must continue to assist the countries of Central Asia in 
addressing the problem. That is particularly important 
in the transition to a sustainable use of both water and 
natural ecosystems resources.
The  development  of  hydro-energy  is  strategically 
important to the sustainable socioeconomic development 
of the region. We are convinced that it would contribute 
to  an  integrated  solution  of  many  current  and  future 
challenges.  We  believe  that  the  construction  of  large 
hydroelectric power facilities should be considered one 
path to clean development. Harnessing the hydropower 
potential of the upstream countries should be considered 
part of low-carbon development, and developing water 
resources  should  be  considered  the  core  model  for 
green  development  in  the  economic  progress  of  the 
region. We are ready to participate in an exchange of 
13-48803
43/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
best practices in water management, water use and the 
construction of irrigation systems.
Central Asia”. We call on members to support the draft 
resolution.
More than 90 per cent of Kyrgyzstan is located in 
mountainous areas, which play an important role in the 
accumulation of water. In that regard, we support the 
further  promotion  of  the  developmental  goals  of  the 
mountain  regions,  in  accordance  with  the  decisions 
taken at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development. I am confident that a draft resolution on 
the issue, to be submitted to the General Assembly at 
this  session  with  the  co-sponsorship  of  Kyrgyzstan, 
will enjoy the support of all United Nations Members.
Some  mountainous 
landlocked  countries  have 
special needs for development. High levels of poverty, 
isolation, the burden of transportation costs and a heavy 
debt are among the basic range of problems that many 
mountainous  countries  face.  In  such  conditions,  it  is 
difficult to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
and to meet the commitments set out in United Nations 
documents  on  sustainable  development.  We  hope  that 
the special needs, problems and challenges of mountain 
countries and communities will be properly reflected in 
the post-2015 development programme.
It  is  well  known  that  mountain  ranges  provide 
valuable  ecosystem  services  and  serve  as  important 
indicator of environmental health and a support system 
for the snow leopard, a rare and endangered highland 
animal.  In  that  regard,  Kyrgyzstan  is  developing  a 
10-year national protection strategy. We invite everyone 
to the world forum on the snow leopard to be held on 
22 and 23 October in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. 
The rehabilitation and security of uranium tailings, 
which  today  total  more  than  8  million  cubic  metres 
on our territory, is very important in Kyrgyzstan. The 
situation is aggravated by the fact that most are located 
in  seismically  active  mudflow  and  flood-prone  areas 
with  high  groundwater  levels,  as  well  near  the  banks 
of rivers that form the basis of the Central Asian water 
supply.  The  potential  consequences  of  ineffective 
solutions would have a very negative impact on millions 
of people in Central Asia.
In  order  to  raise  the  international  community’s 
awareness  of  the  problem  and  to  attract  additional 
assistance  towards  its  solution,  at  this  session  the 
Kyrgyz  delegation  will  introduce  a  draft  resolution 
under agenda item 19 (j), “The role of the international 
community in the prevention of the radiation threat in 
It is well known that development and security are 
closely interrelated. Unfortunately, the maintenance of 
security and stability and the fight against international 
terrorism,  religious  extremism,  and  illicit  drug  and 
arms trafficking and trade remain on the development 
agenda of Kyrgyzstan and our region. Those issues are 
most acute in our region because of the current situation 
in Afghanistan. 
Despite  some  progress  in  the  political  process  in 
Afghanistan, the stability and security of the country 
remain  at  risk.  Furthermore, 
the  Afghan  drug-
production  trade,  being  the  largest  in  the  world,  is 
generating  a  whole  range  of  threats  and  destabilizing 
both  the  political  and  military  situation  in  Eurasia. 
Those  problems  are  more  critical  and  significant  in 
our region than ever before, especially in view of the 
upcoming  withdrawal  of  troops  from  Afghanistan  in 
2014.
Kyrgyzstan, in accordance with its commitments, 
has fully complied with its mission in counter-terrorism 
operations  in  Afghanistan.  Over  the  past  12  years, 
Kyrgyzstan  has  provided  an  important  channel  for 
the  supply  of  military  and  humanitarian  goods  to 
Afghanistan  through  the  transit  centre  at  Manas 
International Airport. We believe that the international 
community’s  efforts  have  contributed  to  the  relative 
stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan and helped 
the Afghan authorities to assume their leadership role 
and responsibility in the fields of public administration 
and  development.  We  are  determined  to  continue  our 
strategic dialogue with partners on all issues of mutual 
interest. We believe that in the fight against terrorism, 
drug trafficking and other security challenges stemming 
from Afghanistan, regional organizations have proved 
their effectiveness and should be even more involved. I 
am talking here in particular of the Collective Security 
Treaty  Organization  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization.  Kyrgyzstan’s  chairmanship  of  those 
international  and  regional  organizations  this  year  has 
once again confirmed the need to have comprehensive 
measures in place to stabilize the situation as soon as 
possible,  both  in  Afghanistan  and  in  the  region  as  a 
whole. 
Along  with  other  measures  to  combat  security 
challenges and threats, it is necessary to pursue a policy 
of  industrialization  aimed  at  building  a  sustainable 
44/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
Afghan  economy  in  order  to  achieve  socioeconomic 
growth  in  the  country.  It  is  also  important  to  involve 
Afghanistan in the development of regional cooperation 
and  the  implementation  of  major  joint  socioeconomic 
and  infrastructural  projects  such  as  the  export  of 
electricity  and  the  building  of  roads  and  railroad 
networks.
In that respect, Kyrgyzstan stands ready to expand 
its  trade  and  economic  relations  and  to  implement 
various  infrastructural  projects,  including  the  export 
of electricity to Afghanistan as part of the CASA-1000 
project and the establishment of a tripartite — Kyrgyzstan-
Tajikistan-Afghanistan — agro-industrial consortium, 
with the assistance of the United Nations.
Today we must take a fundamentally new approach 
to  solving  Afghanistan’s  problems,  based  on  a  new 
philosophy  and  paradigm  of  social  development:  the 
right to development.
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  invite 
representatives  of  Government  and  academia 
to 
take  part  in  the  international  research  conference  on 
“Afghanistan — 2014”, to be held on 10 October 2013 
in the capital of Kyrgyzstan, Bishkek.
We are following developments in the Arab world 
with special attention. The continuing two-year armed 
conflict  in  Syria  is  of  great  concern.  Kyrgyzstan 
expresses  its  serious  concern  about  the  numerous 
victims of the armed conflict, the humanitarian disaster 
it represents and the further escalation of the crisis. We 
call  upon  both  sides  to  immediately  call  a  ceasefire 
and  resolve  the  crisis  peacefully  through  a  dialogue 
between  all  political  forces  of  the  country  under  the 
mediation of the United Nations. 
We support the initiative of the transfer of Syrian 
chemical  weapons  and  their  subsequent  destruction, 
under international supervision, and Syria’s accession to 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and on Their Destruction. We wish to see the restoration 
of stability in the country and the preservation of the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Syria,  without 
external military interference.
The  changes  occurring  in  the  modern  world  and 
its increasing diversity require the strengthening of the 
United Nations so as to ensure that it continues to play its 
central role of ensuring global security and the effective 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
That  can  be  achieved  through  reforming  the  United 
Nations, which should be done in accordance with the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and on the basis of a broad consensus on the 
part of States Members of the United Nations.
We believe that all States Members of the United 
Nations  should  strictly  comply  with  the  decisions  of 
the Security Council; we are in favour of expanding its 
membership  in  order  to  make  it  more  representative, 
transparent and democratic.
We attach particular importance to the work of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  Kyrgyzstan  therefore 
welcomed the adoption last week of resolution 68/1, on 
strengthening the role and enhancing the effectiveness 
of the work of the Council. We hope that a strengthened 
Council  will  become  an  effective  mechanism  for  the 
implementation  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
and  continue  to  serve  as  an  important  platform  for 
multilateral  political  dialogue  on  global  social  and 
economic issues.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the need 
to move forward firmly and resolutely by means of joint 
efforts and a common resolve on the part of all countries 
in order to overcome threats and challenges, maintain 
peace  and  well-being  and  promote  development  for 
future  generations.  Kyrgyzstan  is  fully  prepared  to 
engage in such constructive and effective international 
cooperation.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elmar  Maharram  oglu 
Mammadyarov,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Azerbaijan.
Mr.  Mammadyarov  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-eighth  session  and  wish  him  every  success 
in fulfilling this highly responsible duty. We are also 
grateful to Mr. Vuk Jeremić for his able presidency of 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session.
This  year’s  general  debate  is  taking  place  during 
a  period  of  serious  threats  and  challenges  to  peace, 
security and sustainable development. Environmental, 
economic  and  social 
that 
the  models  for  progress  and  development  need  to 
be  modified  and  adapted.  The  theme  of  the  current 
general  debate,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting  the  stage”,  is  timely  and  topical  in  providing 
indicators  demonstrate 
13-48803
45/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
an opportunity for evaluating the progress achieved so 
far  and  identifying  new  ways  of  overcoming  existing 
obstacles.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
which  were  adopted  to  address  extreme  poverty  and 
multiple  other  forms  of  deprivation  and  for  defining 
future development priorities, are of key importance in 
making future positive differences in the world.
Azerbaijan  recently  became  a  donor  country  and 
contributes  to  the  sustainable  development  efforts  of 
countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is a 
brand-new chapter in the history of my country and its 
activities in the international arena. A national entity, 
the  Azerbaijan  International  Development  Agency, 
which  was  established  for  that  purpose,  has  already 
carried  out  various  assistance  programmes  in  more 
than  20  countries.  The  Heydar  Aliyev  Foundation 
has  also  conducted  various  humanitarian  and  social 
programmes.
The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  recently  commended  Azerbaijan’s 
achievements in combating hunger and recognized that 
the country has accomplished the first MDG, namely, 
combating  undernourishment.  Moreover,  gender 
equality,  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the  fight 
against  HIV/AIDS  have  also  been  identified  as  areas 
of progress.
One  of  the  key  elements  that  Azerbaijan  is 
considering  in  the  context  of  the  post-2015  agenda  is 
information  and  communications  technology  (ICT), 
which is a driving force of development and progress. 
To achieve the objective of ensuring improved access 
to ICT, efforts must be intensified to enhance regional 
synergies  for  promoting  investment  in  ICT  capacity-
building, refocusing tools and content so as to address 
the  particular  needs  of  populations  and  thus  better 
deploying ICT in the service of sustainable development. 
In  that  connection,  Azerbaijan  has  put  forward 
a  proposal  to  establish  the  Eurasian  Connectivity 
Alliance,  a  regional  platform  in  support  of  improved 
connectivity  and  greater  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
ICT. We are encouraged by Member States’ support for 
that initiative through the adoption of resolution 67/298 
in September and look forward to further cooperation 
with interested Governments and other stakeholders.
The  world  is  still  witnessing  violations  of  the 
fundamental norms and principles of international law. 
Hundreds of thousands of people throughout the world 
continue  to  suffer  from  acts  of  aggression,  military 
occupation, ethnic cleansing and a prevailing culture of 
impunity for the most serious crimes of concern to the 
international community.
Twenty  years  ago,  in  1993,  the  Security  Council 
adopted four resolutions — resolutions 822 (1993), 853 
(1993),  874  (1993)  and  884  (1993) —  condemning  the 
use of force against Azerbaijan and the occupation of its 
territories. In those resolutions, the Council reaffirmed 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Azerbaijan,  reconfirmed  that  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
region is an integral part of Azerbaijan, and demanded 
the  immediate,  full  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of 
the occupying forces from all the occupied territories.
The  resolutions  also  made  specific  reference  to 
violations of international humanitarian law, including 
the violent displacement of a large number of civilians 
in Azerbaijan, attacks on civilians and the bombing of 
its territory.
A series of Security Council presidential statements 
on the issue adopted between 1992 and 1995 are phrased 
along  the  same  lines.  All  in  all,  the  aforementioned 
resolutions, which are clearly the most authoritative and 
binding rulings on the problem, acknowledge that acts 
of  military  force  were  committed  against  Azerbaijan 
and  that  such  acts  constitute  a  serious  violation  of 
international law.
To our deep regret, the Security Council’s principled 
demands, including, in the first place, the withdrawal 
of  occupying  forces  from  the  occupied  territories  of 
Azerbaijan,  have  still  not  been  implemented,  and  the 
mediation  efforts  conducted  for  more  than  20  years 
within the framework of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), have yet to yield 
results.  Against  that  background,  with  a  view  to 
deflecting the attention of the international community 
from  the  urgent  need  to  address  the  main  problems 
caused by its continuing aggression against Azerbaijan, 
Armenia  has  been  undertaking  efforts  to  distort  the 
actual  situation  and  downplaying  the  relevance  of 
Security Council resolutions and misinterpreting their 
provisions.  Moreover,  Armenia’s  continued  claims  of 
annexation  and  the  consistent  measures  it  has  been 
undertaking  in  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan 
with a view to further consolidating the status quo of 
the  occupation  and  preventing  the  return  of  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  internally  displaced  persons  to  their 
46/48 
13-48803
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.18
homeland represent an open challenge to the conflict-
resolution  process  and  pose  a  serious 
to 
international and regional peace and security.
threat 
On  our  initiative  at  the  United  Nations  in  2005 
and  2010,  OSCE-led  fact-finding  and  fact-assessment 
missions visited the occupied territories. Both missions 
documented  the  fact  of  illegal  activities  in  those 
areas,  involving,  inter  alia,  the  insertion  of  settlers, 
the  extensive  redrawing  of  boundaries,  the  changing 
of  original  geographic  names,  and  the  discriminatory 
treatment of cultural property and sacred sites. However, 
the  missions’  recommendations  remain  just  on  paper. 
Moreover,  the  latest  reports  on  the  transfer  of  Syrian 
Armenians  into  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  and 
seven other adjacent occupied districts of Azerbaijan, 
along with other illegal activities, including efforts to 
operate flights into and out of those territories, provide 
yet  more  evidence  of  Armenia’s  deliberate  policy  of 
annexing Azerbaijani land.
internally  displaced  persons 
In  that  regard,  it  is  critical  that  the  international 
community  continue  to  insist  on  the  need  for  an 
immediate  and  unconditional  end  to  all  actions  that 
are seriously obstructing the prospects of a negotiated 
peaceful settlement to the conflict. Armenia’s policy of 
annexation has absolutely no chance of succeeding. The 
Nagorno Karabakh region was, is and will always be an 
inalienable part of Azerbaijan. The only way to achieve 
a durable and lasting solution and to establish civilized 
relations  between  the  two  neighbouring  States  is  to 
de-occupy  Azerbaijani  territories,  fully  re-establish 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan, 
and  comply  immediately  with  the  inalienable  right 
of  refugees  and 
to 
return  to  their  homes.  That  is  what  international 
law  and  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
require,  something  that  can  in  no  way  be  introduced 
as  a  bargaining  chip  during  the  conflict-settlement 
process. Above all, Azerbaijan will never compromise 
its  territorial  integrity  or  the  rights  and  freedoms  of 
its  citizens.  Without  prejudice  to  its  rights  under  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  those  set 
forth in Article 51, Azerbaijan has embarked upon, and 
remains committed to, the conflict-settlement process.
We  have  no  doubt  that  the  Azerbaijani  and 
Armenian  communities  of  Nagorno  Karabakh  will 
one day live side by side in peace and dignity in this 
region  of  Azerbaijan.  It  is  therefore  essential  and 
vital  to  continue  efforts  towards  peace,  agreement 
and  coexistence  between  the  two  communities  of  the 
Azerbaijan  highly  appreciates 
Nagorno  Karabakh  region. We  consider  those  aspects 
to  be  an  important  part  of  the  entire  reconciliation 
process, which should be given the attention it deserves. 
the  principled 
stance  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
that  has  been  expressed  on  issues  that  are  important 
for  Azerbaijan  and  pertaining  to  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity. We count on the continued resolve 
of the international community to defend the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as 
well  as  its  strong  solidarity  with  the  just  position  of 
Azerbaijan.
We  note  the  encouraging  developments  in  the 
Middle East peace process with the resumption of direct 
negotiations between Israel and Palestine. The current 
situation of insecurity in the whole region necessitates 
progress  in  the  peace  process  as  never  before.  It  is 
imperative  that  the  parties  demonstrate  responsibility 
to  sustain  international  efforts  towards  achieving  the 
two-State  solution  and  avoid  actions  that  would  risk 
undermining  that  objective.  The  economic,  financial 
and  humanitarian  situation 
in  Palestine  requires 
continued 
international  attention  and  assistance, 
particularly in order to ensure humanitarian aid for the 
region. 
In  June,  Azerbaijan  hosted  a  conference  of  the 
Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation on the establishment of an Islamic 
financial safety net in support of Palestine, as well as 
a donors conference in support of the city of Al-Quds. 
States  members  of  the  OIC  and  other  international 
organizations  attending  the  conferences  pledged  to 
contribute  to  improving  Palestine’s  economy,  health 
care  and  education,  as  well  as  two  infrastructure 
projects. 
We welcome yesterday’s adoption of Security Council 
resolution 2118 (2013), regarding the safeguarding and 
destruction  of  Syria’s  chemical-weapon  stockpiles. 
We  hope  that  the  unanimous  and  strong  position 
demonstrated by the Council will contribute to finding 
a political solution to the conflict in Syria, putting an 
end to the suffering inflicted on the Syrian people and 
ensuring  that  all  parties  concerned  comply  with  their 
obligations and commitments under international law. 
Azerbaijan  strongly  condemns  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons in Syria, particularly the resulting killing of 
civilians.  Resolution  2118  (2013)  affirms  that  the  use 
of chemical weapons constitutes a serious violation of 
13-48803
47/48
A/68/PV.18 
28/09/2013
international law and qualifies such an act as a threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  By  endorsing  the 
Geneva  communiqué  of  30  June  2012  (S/2012/522, 
annex) and calling for the convening of an international 
conference  on  Syria,  the  Security  Council  paved  the 
way  for  achieving  a  peaceful  transition,  stability  and 
reconciliation.  It  is  imperative  that  all  parties  cease 
armed violence, engage constructively in the political 
process  and  commit  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Geneva communiqué.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  hope 
that  during  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Member  States  will  be  able 
take 
successful steps towards a stronger and more effective 
United  Nations.  We  look  forward  to  the  continued 
commitment  and  engagement  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  both  in  reinforcing  the  implementation  of 
national development goals by individual countries and 
in  ensuring  the  implementation  of  the  decisions  and 
resolutions adopted by the Organization.
to 
The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m.
48/48 
13-48803
