United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
37th plenary meeting
Friday, 25 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.37
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
General for presenting the reports under consideration 
today.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda items 63 and 13 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and  
international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and  
international support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/222)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/220)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Mr.  Dos  Santos  (Brazil):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation wishes to thank the President for convening 
this  joint  debate  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  on  the  Decade  to  Roll 
Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa.  This  event  is  particularly  timely  since  this 
year we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the 
African Union and the tenth anniversary of the African 
Peer Review Mechanism (APRM). My delegation would 
also  like  to  extend  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
As  Brazilian  President  Dilma  Rousseff  stated 
during her speech on the occasion of the African Union’s 
golden jubilee in May in Addis Ababa, Brazil sees the 
African continent as a brother and close neighbour. Our 
African descent constitutes one of the strongest pillars 
of our culture and our national identity. Brazil’s support 
for NEPAD reflects that awareness of our inextricable 
connections to Africa.
The Secretary-General’s eleventh progress report on 
NEPAD (A/68/222) confirms that Africa is undergoing 
profound economic and social transformations. Over the 
previous year, encouraging developments continued to 
materialize in the fields of infrastructure development, 
agriculture  and  food  security,  health  and  education, 
and  information  and  communications  technology.  In 
addition, the consolidation of the African Peer Review 
Mechanism  has  helped  to  strengthen  mechanisms  to 
identify and put in place African solutions to African 
challenges.  In  that  regard,  we  wish  to  commend  the 
NEPAD Agency, the Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa,  the  African  Union  and  the  regional  economic 
commissions for their consistent efforts.
We  need  to  recognize,  however,  that,  despite  the 
resilience shown by African economies, many challenges 
persist on the path to sustainable development. In many 
instances,  the  chronic  lack  of  resources  for  public 
investments hinders the full implementation of NEPAD 
development plans.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-53103 (E)
*1353103*
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
In the area of international trade, African countries 
are faced with many structural barriers to their access 
to  global  markets.  A  lack  of  trade  financing  and  the 
imposition of tariff and non-tariff barriers in developed-
country  markets,  including  trade-distorting  subsidies, 
continue to prevent Africa from meeting its full export 
potential,  especially  in  agriculture.  In  that  regard,  as 
we  approach  the  ministerial  conference  of  the  World 
Trade Organization to be held in Bali in December, we 
must strive to ensure an outcome that is consistent with 
the central role of agriculture for developing countries.
The  continued  decline  in  official  development 
assistance (ODA) is another cause of concern when it 
comes  to  African  development  initiatives.  We  call  on 
all donor countries and development partners to fulfil 
their  ODA  commitments  and  to  intensify  support  for 
NEPAD activities in order to sustain the momentum that 
has been achieved, bearing in mind that Africa is the 
only region that is not on track to meet the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015.
Brazil’s  commitment 
to  Africa’s  sustainable 
development is permanent and unwavering. Our efforts 
to that effect have been concentrated on cooperation in 
the  areas  of  health  and  agriculture  and  food  security, 
always in accordance with the principles of South-South 
cooperation,  such  as  non-conditionality  and  demand-
driven assistance. They have also included productive 
investments in a number of sectors.
As far as agriculture and food security are concerned, 
the  Brazilian  Agricultural  Research  Corporation, 
EMBRAPA — a State enterprise — continues to provide 
technology and capacity-building through South-South 
cooperation to various African countries. Examples of 
ongoing  projects  include  the  creation  of  community 
seed banks in South Africa, Mozambique and Namibia; 
family agriculture development in Malawi; cooperative 
development in Benin; and biotechnology laboratorial 
procedures  in  Ghana.  In  addition,  EMBRAPA  also 
supports the production of tropical fruit, cocoa, cotton, 
rice  and  horticulture  in  countries  such  as  Senegal, 
Tanzania, Cabo Verde, Guinea-Bissau and the Republic 
of the Congo, with a view to improving access to food 
and increasing food security and resilience.
Through  the  Ministry  of  Rural  Development,  the 
Brazilian  Government  is  also  transferring  capacity 
to  countries  such  as  Zimbabwe,  Kenya  and  Ghana  to 
help them develop local versions of one of our national 
programmes,  which  provides  finance  for  family-
farming  investments  in  machinery  and  equipment, 
irrigation and dairy production, among other areas.
it 
is  essential 
In the field of health, in order for Africa to achieve 
sustainable  development, 
to  make 
progress  in  the  fight  against  continental  epidemics 
such  as  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  To  that 
effect, we have been working together with a number 
of African Governments in order to facilitate access to 
drugs and treatment throughout the continent. In 2012, 
in  partnership  with  the  Government  of  Mozambique, 
the  Brazilian  Government’s  health  foundation  opened 
a medicine factory in Maputo that has been producing 
21 types of antiretroviral drugs to combat HIV/AIDS. 
It  is  expected  that  in  two  years,  production  will  be 
sufficient  to  cater  to  the  demand  of  the  whole  of 
sub-Saharan Africa. In that regard, it is essential that 
African and other affected countries continue to be able 
to make full use of the flexibilities in the World Trade 
Organization Agreement on the Trade-Related Aspects 
of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), in accordance 
with the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health.
Brazil  has  also  participated  actively  in  United 
Nations  and  NEPAD  activities  aimed  at  curing  and 
preventing  malaria,  including  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 
Partnership.  We  have  renewed  our  commitment  to 
cooperating  with  African  countries  based  on  their 
own national experience in the control and elimination 
of  malaria.  At  the  bilateral  level,  we  have  continued 
to  develop 
training  and  capacity-building 
programmes  with  a  number  of  African  countries  for 
the  prevention  and  control  of  malaria  and  the  overall 
strengthening of national health systems.
joint 
All  of  those  initiatives  are  underpinned  by  the 
commitments  made  by  African  and  South  American 
countries  at  the  third  Africa-South  America  Summit, 
held in February in Malabo. On that occasion, nations 
from  the  two  regions  reaffirmed  the  urgency  of 
articulating policies aimed at improving food security, 
including  access  to  food.  They  also  committed  to 
building  a  productive  agenda  focused  on  inclusive, 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  on  prioritizing 
production  by  local  small  and  medium-sized  farms, 
while  respecting  their  traditional  methods.  We  also 
agreed  on  27  different  projects  for  implementation 
between our two regions in areas of common interest in 
addition to agriculture, such as education and culture, 
infrastructure, peace and security, institution-building, 
governance and public administration, and trade.
2/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
We  also  wish  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
the  meeting  held  in  March  in  Durban,  South  Africa, 
between African leaders and leaders of Brazil, Russia, 
India and China. The meeting focused on the potential 
for  cooperation  on  infrastructure  projects,  as  well  as 
further initiatives in the areas of health, agriculture and 
food production, and the sharing of national experiences 
in  the  design  and  implementation  of  public  policies 
aimed at sustainable development and social inclusion.
All those initiatives are fully aligned with African 
development  priorities  and  are  geared  towards  giving 
renewed strength to the ties between Africa and Brazil 
and  South  America  as  we  strive  to  achieve  all  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  advance  towards 
the post-2015 development agenda.
Mr.  Bweupe  (Zambia):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President for giving my delegation this opportunity to 
contribute to the topic under discussion today.
Zambia  wishes  to  align  its  statement  with  those 
made this morning by the representatives of Ethiopia, 
on behalf of the African Group, and Fiji, on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.36).
Most  of  the  development  issues  concerning  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  have  been 
very  well  articulated,  particularly  by  Ethiopia,  and 
our  delegation  would  like  to  narrow  the  discussion 
down to one key issue that affects our socioeconomic 
development,  namely,  the  agenda  item  on  the  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa.
Malaria  remains  a  major  public-health  concern 
in  Zambia,  particularly  among  children  under  5  and 
pregnant  women,  with  more  than  4  million  cases 
reported  every  year.  My  delegation  would  like  to  pay 
special tribute to the Secretary-General, as well as to 
the  global  community,  for  the  unprecedented  support 
that the fight against malaria has garnered in the past 
decade, a contribution that the Director General of the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  highlighted  in  his 
recent report (A/67/825) Like the other parts of Africa 
where malaria is seriously endemic, Zambia has been a 
beneficiary of that unprecedented support.
I  wish  to  echo  the  concerns  in  the  WHO  report 
on  the  shortfall  in  global  financing  for  malaria 
control,  particularly  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  We  know  that  increased, 
sustained and predictable funding to the Global Fund 
does go a long way towards ensuring the availability of 
malaria-control commodities, as well as to consolidating 
and  preventing  a  reversal  of  the  gains  that  African 
countries,  particularly  malaria-endemic  countries, 
have made. Like the rest of Africa, my country faces 
severe  resource  constraints,  which  challenges  our 
ability to contribute from our local treasury. Therefore, 
by and large, the contribution of the global community 
has  gone  a  long  way  towards  fostering  the  gains  we 
have  made  in  malaria  control.  Continued  support 
for  attaining  meaningful  and  sustained  progress  is 
therefore very much needed.
African  countries  and  their  Governments  remain 
committed to malaria-control efforts, and Zambia, like 
many malaria-endemic countries, has made remarkable 
reductions  in  malaria  incidence  and  has  embarked  on 
an  ambitious  programme  to  eliminate  it  altogether, 
through the use of enhanced surveillance, the assured 
in  particular, 
availability  of  commodities  and, 
integrated  prevention  and 
interventions 
within communities.
treatment 
I am glad to report that by the end of 2012, 72 per 
cent  of  households  in  our  country  had  at  least  one 
mosquito net, and that all our districts have now been 
included  in  indoor  residual  spraying  efforts.  Seventy-
four per cent of households have at least a net or have 
been sprayed against malaria. Of particular interest is 
the fact that more than 72 per cent of pregnant women 
are receiving antimalarial prophylaxis.
Those  efforts  have  resulted  in  reductions  in 
malaria  incidence  and  fatalities  of  about  66  per  cent, 
thus contributing to Millennium Development Goal 6. 
Ultimately, as it is for the rest of Africa, Zambia’s goal 
is to eliminate malaria, because we believe that is part 
of our development agenda, and the impact of malaria 
goes way beyond the health sector. It is a basic social 
and development issue for most African countries.
While  noting  those  gains,  Zambia,  like  most 
African countries, has experienced some setbacks and 
challenges in scaling up planned interventions, due to 
shortfalls in the co-financing of programmes, especially 
from  the  global  health  initiatives.  My  delegation 
therefore calls for increased resources to be applied to 
research and surveillance to best inform malaria control 
efforts,  to  prevent  the  development  of  resistance  to 
drugs used in malaria control and to prevent resurgence 
where  we  have  elimination  within  sight.  In  support 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/68/222)  and  his 
13-53103
3/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
observations, we call for the consolidation of the gains 
made  by  maintaining  the  aspirations  of  Millennium 
Development  Goal  6  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  and  ensuring  that  the  eradication  of  malaria 
remains a priority global health issue.
Mr. Moktefi (Algeria): Allow me, at the outset, to 
welcome Mr. Ibrahim Hassane Mayaki, Chief Executive 
Officer of the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
Algeria  also  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  NEPAD  (A/68/222)  and  the  insights  it 
provides.
My  delegation  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Ethiopia  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  (see 
A/68/PV.36).
This  year,  the  golden  jubilee  celebration  of  the 
establishment  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity, 
now known as the African Union, provides us with an 
opportunity to take stock of what has been accomplished 
thus  far  and  to  look  to  the  future  with  confidence. 
Launched  in  Abuja  in  2001  to  spearhead  the  African 
renaissance,  the  idea  of  NEPAD  was  born  out  of  the 
political  imperative  for  Africans  to  rely  primarily  on 
themselves  to  lift  the  continent  out  of  poverty  and  to 
put  an  end  to  the  marginalization  of  Africa  from  the 
globalization  process.  For  that  purpose,  NEPAD  has 
placed the issues of peace, security, democracy, good 
governance, human rights, women’s empowerment and 
sound economic management at the heart of sustainable 
development.
While  recognizing  the  political,  economic  and 
social difficulties that have beset Africa’s development 
for decades, NEPAD is also an expression of Africa’s 
will  to  establish  a  new  partnership  anchored  in 
the  principle  of  African  leadership  and,  above  all, 
ownership.
After  a  decade  of  implementation,  NEPAD,  as  a 
programme of the African Union, has produced a number 
of encouraging results. The promotion of infrastructure 
development as a driving force for Africa’s integration 
and  development  led  to  the  adoption,  in  2010,  of  the 
Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa 
(PIDA)  by  the  African  Union’s  Heads  of  State.  In 
addition  to  having  a  significant  social  impact,  PIDA 
will  improve  Africa’s  competitiveness,  strengthen  its 
potential to attract investment and lead to a two-point 
increase  in  growth.  The  major  infrastructure  projects 
identified thus far will also lead to improved regional 
cooperation  and  integration  and  boost  intra-African 
trade.
likely 
Landlocked  African  countries  are 
to 
experience a reduction in transport costs, resulting from 
improved access to seaports and improved infrastructure 
in  transit  countries.  In  that  regard,  progress  has  been 
made  in  the  project  promoted  by  Algeria  to  complete 
the trans-Sahara highway and gas pipeline, which will 
link  Algeria  and  Nigeria.  In  addition,  the  fibre-optic 
component  of  the  project  linking  Nigeria,  the  Niger 
and  Algeria  has  also  seen  substantial  progress,  as 
evidenced by the installation of 700 kilometres of the 
2,700 kilometres of cable required. Significant progress 
has also been made within the Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme,  which  aims  at 
achieving a 6 per cent growth rate in the agricultural 
sector through the allocation of 10 per cent of national 
budgets. Today 30 countries have committed themselves 
to the programme, of which 21 have already adopted a 
national agriculture investment plan.
On the topic of governance, NEPAD has successfully 
launched  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  a 
means of effectively fostering the adoption of policies, 
standards and practices that lead to political stability, 
high  economic  growth,  sustainable  development  and 
accelerated  subregional  and  continental  economic 
integration.  The  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  which  this 
year celebrates its tenth anniversary, has consolidated 
its  position  as  a  voluntary  instrument  for  promoting 
good  governance.  We  are  pleased  to  see  today  that 
33 countries have joined the Mechanism, of which 17 
have been peer-reviewed.
including 
Although  progress  has  been  made  in  the  past 
year  in  accelerating  growth  and  social  development, 
persistent  challenges, 
limited  progress 
towards the attainment of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), linger. As such, sustained international 
support  will  be  crucial  if  Africa  is  to  meet  those 
internationally agreed development goals, including and 
through a global partnership for development. To that 
end, we call on development partners to pursue efforts 
to  deliver  on  their  commitments  to  the  continent’s 
development,  including  those  relating  to  assistance. 
All  stakeholders  need  to  make  a  strong  push  towards 
the Goals in Africa, the only region that is unlikely to 
attain them by 2015. The launch of the United Nations 
monitoring mechanism to review the implementation of 
4/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
commitments  made  to  the  continent’s  development  is 
likely to step up efforts towards that full delivery.
We know too well that the world’s prosperity cannot 
be achieved without that of Africa. African efforts to 
eradicate  hunger,  create  jobs  and  ensure  sustainable 
development  must  be  complemented  by  sustained 
support from developing partners. In that context, we 
urge the international community to give due attention 
to  Africa’s  priorities,  in  particular  NEPAD,  in  the 
formulation  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  A 
global partnership for development will be crucial for 
accelerating efforts to achieve the MDGs, in addition 
to  enabling  the  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Mr. Balé (Congo) (spoke in French): Today’s debate 
on agenda item 63 and its sub-items (a) and (b) is the 
outcome  of  the  Africa-New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  Week.  The  Week,  which  also  includes 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM),  was 
made possible thanks to the initiative of the Office of 
the  Under-Secretary-General  and  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa and with valuable input from the Agency of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and  the  secretariat  of  the  APRM.  I  would  like  first 
and  foremost  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz  for  the  dynamism  he 
has  brought  to  leading  this  Office,  as  well  as  to  the 
Executive Director of NEPAD’s Office of Planning and 
Coordination,  Mr.  Ibrahim  Hassane  Mayaki,  who  has 
promoted NEPAD with great conviction.
I welcome that initiative, which has allowed us to 
present  an  Africa  that  has  overcome  the  weight  of  its 
history  to  take  its  destiny  in  hand,  uniting  around  a 
shared vision of development — an Africa that has taken 
stock of the challenges of governance and of peace and 
security so that the changes required to implement that 
vision can flourish. 
My  delegation 
the  Secretary-
General’s  two  reports,  entitled  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development:  eleventh  consolidated  progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support” 
(A/68/222) and “Causes of conflict and the promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa”  (А/68/220).  Both  provide  a  thoughtful  review 
of the actions undertaken or that should be undertaken 
by  the  United  Nations  and  Africa’s  other  partners  to 
assist Africa and the various pan-African institutions, 
pursuant to the relevant General Assembly documents 
takes  note  of 
and  others 
especially in the priority areas identified in NEPAD.
international  conferences, 
issued  by 
The  various  statements  made  over  the  course  of 
the  week  on  Africa,  along  with  the  two  reports  just 
mentioned,  reassure  us  that  African  countries  are 
engaged  in  a  process  of  profound  changes  in  their 
economies. Despite the global economic and financial 
crisis, we must look at the indicators. We can see that 
the  strategic  framework  NEPAD  offers  has  allowed 
African  countries  to  make  encouraging  progress. 
Moreover, African leadership has become apparent in 
taking ownership of conflict resolution and in the will 
to avert conflict through use of African mechanisms.
the  assets 
to  make 
Africa  possesses 
it  an 
indispensable  player  whose  weight  will  be  felt  in  the 
globalization of the world. However — and we cannot 
stress  this  enough  —  the  countries  of  Africa  face, 
individually and collectively, multiple constraints that 
are  often  complex  in  nature,  and  they  do  not  always 
have the capacity to overcome them. 
Africa’s destiny is linked to that of the whole world. 
That  is  an  undeniable  fact  and  a  reality  that  should 
inspire other regions of the world, and our bilateral and 
multilateral partners, to concrete actions and measures 
within  a  partnership  framework  that  we  envision  as 
dynamic  and  innovative.  My  delegation  shares  the 
analysis  of  the  Secretary-General  in  his  two  reports, 
and I wish to align myself with his recommendations, 
in particular his emphasis on the need for our partners 
to keep their promises and honour their commitments 
and, above all, to continue to support the efforts of the 
African countries and the African Union in their quest 
for sustainable peace and development. 
That is why the Congo welcomes the commitment of 
the United Nations and of bilateral partners to work with 
the Economic Community of Central African States to 
resolve the crisis in the Central African Republic. We 
hope that crisis comes to a happy conclusion, based on 
the framework of rules established under the leadership 
of the Heads of State of the Economic Community of 
Central African States, in close collaboration with the 
African  Union  supported  by  the  United  Nations  and 
the  bilateral  partners.  However,  the  political  process 
thus undertaken in that country must be accompanied 
simultaneously  by  actions  to  effect  its  economic 
and  social  recovery  so  as  not  to  dash  the  hope  for  a 
lasting  peace,  learning  lessons  from  the  challenges 
that  prevented  a  successful  outcome  of  earlier  peace 
processes.
13-53103
5/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to  stress  the  importance  of  and  interest  in  such 
partnerships, in which the United Nations and Africa’s 
other  partners  are  called  upon  to  support  efforts  and 
initiatives  at  the  regional  and  subregional  levels, 
including  the  prevention  and  resolution  of  conflicts 
from  the  perspective  of  priorities  defined  by  African 
countries, 
the  African  Union  and  regional  and 
subregional organizations, particularly in post-conflict 
situations. 
individually, 
The  countries  of  Africa  have  never  shirked 
their  primary  responsibility,  aware  that  the  future 
of  the  continent  requires  them  to  be  masters  of  their 
own  fate.  The  strength  of  that  commitment  has  led 
them,  collectively  and 
to  overcome 
adverse  events  and  obstacles  and  to  persevere  in  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD,  particularly  in  the  light 
of  the  outcomes,  however  modest,  that  have  been 
achieved  in  the  past  decade,  as  well  as  the  lessons 
they  have  learned,  which  have  enabled  them  to  bring 
hope  to  millions  of  Africans  and  to  become  a  viable 
partner.  That  sustained  dynamism  has  made  possible 
the remarkable progress we welcome today.
With  that  perspective,  the  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo  has  developed  its  National 
Development  Programme  2012-2016,  which  is  under 
way  as  part  of  the  extension  of  a  voluntary  policy 
of  integration  by  undertaking  relevant  programmes 
established  under 
the  priorities  of  NEPAD.  The 
Programme  is  based  on  five  pillars,  among  which 
governance 
the  cornerstone 
of  economic  and  social  development.  The  Congo 
has  subscribed  to  the  process  of  self-evaluation  and 
evaluation  by  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
from its launching in 2003. Internal consultations are 
under way with a view to complying with that process. 
Progress 
towards  good  governance  has  become 
irreversible. 
is  rightly  considered 
Diversification and growth, social development and 
inclusion, and balanced and sustainable development are 
the  other  pillars  that  guide  the  National  Development 
Programme. The development of economic and social 
infrastructures is the pivot, because the services they 
generate make possible, inter alia, the interconnection 
of  operators  with  internal,  regional  and  international 
markets and ending the isolation of pockets of poverty.
In the context of interconnecting the neighbouring 
countries  of  the  subregion,  the  Congo  has  supported 
a  number  of  important  efforts  aimed  at  regional 
integration:  between  the  Central  African  Republic 
and  Chad  along  the  Ouésso-Enyele-Мongoumba  axis; 
Cameroon 
through  Ketta-Sembé-Souanké;  Gabon 
the  subregional  axis  of  Doussala-Ndendé-
along 
Dolisie, as well as through Okoyo-Lekoni-Franceville; 
Angola  through  Cabinda  starting  from  Nzassi;  and 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  by  the  road-
rail  bridge  from  Brazzaville  to  Kinshasa  and  Ilebo.
The majority of those projects are being implemented, 
except the symbolic integrative project of the road-rail 
bridge that will eventually link Brazzaville to Kinshasa, 
which is still in the preliminary study phase. The same 
applies to the project to connect the electrical grids of 
Central Africa.
It is commonplace to say that agriculture remains 
the structural support of African economies due to its 
high rate of employment — 90 per cent in rural areas, 
and  60  per  cent  of  the  combined  total  for  urban  and 
rural  areas.  The  development  of  that  sector,  however, 
continues to represent a challenge for my country. The 
Congo  joined  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme (CAADP) in 2010, but it has 
not  yet  managed  to  allocate  10  per  cent  of  its  budget 
to agriculture, as stipulated in the Maputo Declaration. 
The Government has nonetheless embarked on a policy 
for  developing  that  sector.  The  Congo  participated  in 
signing  the  regional  framework  in  Libreville  in  April 
2013. The signing of the National Pact for the CAADP 
will take place next month. A dossier will be presented 
to  the  partners  in  which  they  commit  to  improving 
the  macroeconomic  and  business  frameworks  and  to 
constructing adequate infrastructure. 
intends 
to 
improve 
In  order  to  implement  those  programmes,  the 
Congolese  Government 
the 
utilization of its own revenues while relying on external 
resources,  in  particular  commitments  made  in  the 
framework  of  certain  initiatives,  such  as  the  Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and the initiative on 
the  transparent  management  of  petroleum  resources, 
which should enable the Congo to increase its capacity 
to mobilize external resources at favourable rates.
As  we  work  on  the  development  of  the  post-2015 
agenda  and  sustainable  development  goals,  it  seems 
appropriate  to  underscore  the  need  to  see  the  two 
processes as mutually reinforcing and complementary 
in  a  coherent  and  coordinated  manner,  without, 
however, sacrificing the development goals that will not 
be realized, for there are many African countries that 
will  not  have  attained  the  Millennium  Development 
6/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
Goals by 2015. Likewise, it is important that the goals 
we are shaping now reflect the priorities of NEPAD and 
of Africa.
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
We have read with great attention and sustained interest 
the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  before  us  today 
under sub-items (a) and (b) of agenda item 63. 
prosperity, which have been the leitmotif of its leaders 
since the dawn of time.
We thank the Secretary-General for the great deal 
of information has has provided over the past 12 months 
with  regard  to  the  support  of  African  countries,  their 
strategic partners and the United Nations system in the 
NEPAD priority areas.
At  the  outset,  we  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement delivered on behalf of the African Group on 
these reports (see A/68/PV.36). 
We wish to commend the Secretary-General for the 
priority he continues to grant to Africa, in the light of 
decisions taken by the deliberative bodies of the United 
Nations.  We  appreciate 
the  foresight,  dynamism, 
zeal  and  dedication  shown  by  the  President  of  the 
African  Union  Commission,  the  Secretary-General’s 
Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  the  Executive  Secretary 
of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  the  head  of 
the  African  Development  Bank,  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer of the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and their teams in the service of development in Africa, 
especially  in  making  short-,  medium-  and  long-term 
projections, including up to 2063.
With regard to the reports before us and to agenda 
item 13, we would like to make the following comments 
and observations. 
First,  with  regard  to  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development, it should be stressed, as affirmed 
by  the  Secretary-General  himself,  that  the  various 
continental  flagship  programmes  being  implemented 
under  NEPAD,  including  those  on  infrastructure, 
agriculture  and  governance,  are  key  to  realizing  the 
vision  of  an  integrated,  prosperous  and  peaceful 
continent. The eleventh report of the Secretary-General 
on NEPAD (A/68/222) provides an update on progress 
in the implementation of, and international support to, 
the NEPAD programme, which is celebrating its tenth 
anniversary  at  the  same  time  as  we  mark  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  Organization  of 
African Unity, the predecessor of the African Union. 
It is right that this occasion is being celebrated in the 
context of pan-Africanism and the African renaissance. 
For those who can recall, our continent has come a long 
way since the period of slavery, colonialism and, more 
recently, structural adjustments and the Afro-pessimism 
of the 1980s. The continent rose from the ashes of all 
of those trying episodes and is regaining its unity and 
the  key 
in  Africa  holds 
On  the  issue  of  infrastructure,  we  agree  with 
the  Secretary-General’s  statement  in  paragraph  111 
of  his  report  that  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development 
to  pan-
Africanism  and  an  African  renaissance.  The  various 
projects  envisaged,  including  in  the  priority  sectors 
of transport, energy, information and communications 
technology,  and  transboundary  transportation,  are 
clearly  detailed  in  the  report.  They  are  of  great 
relevance for development of Africa and are in various 
stages of planning, programming and implementation. 
We strongly support them. 
to 
It  is  important  to  underscore  that  such  projects 
broadly  rely  on  funding  from  Africa,  demonstrating 
that,  as  African  leaders  have  always  asserted,  the 
primary  responsibility  for  the  development  of  the 
continent  belongs  primarily 
them.  Cameroon 
supports  in  particular  projects  relating  to  roads, 
bridges,  telecommunications  and  African  integration 
at  the  national,  regional  and  subregional  levels.  Our 
country, for its part, has committed to a broad national 
programme  called  Great  Achievements,  including  the 
construction of ports, power stations and hydroelectric 
dams, 
renewable  energy 
infrastructure.
roads,  and  new  and 
in 
implementing 
to  make  progress 
With  regard  to  agriculture  and  food  security, 
the  Secretary-General  notes  that  African  countries 
continue 
the 
commitments  made  under  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture Development Programme and the objective 
of allocating 10 per cent of their budgets to agricultural 
development.  Our  country  is  firmly  committed  to 
this  path  through  various  projects  planned  or  being 
implemented.  In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General 
identifies  challenges  that  prevent  significant  progress 
by  Africa,  in  particular  the  lack  of  funds  and  the 
limitations in technological capabilities. We call for the 
overcoming of those challenges.
With regard to health, the Secretary-General notes 
that  progress  has  been  slow  with  regard  to  the  target 
set in the Abuja Declaration on HIV/AIDS of allocating 
13-53103
7/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
15 per cent of national budgets to improving the health 
sector.  However,  many  African  countries,  such  as 
Cameroon, have made remarkable progress in the fight 
against  the  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  infectious 
diseases.  The  Chantal  Biya  Foundation  —  she  is  the 
First Lady of our country — and the African Synergies 
organization,  which  she  set  up  together  with  other 
African  First  Ladies,  are  at  the  forefront  of  these 
efforts.  As  emphasized  by  the  Secretary-General,  the 
most urgent challenges that must be dealt with in order 
to  step  up  progress  in  the  health  sector  are  the  lack 
of  training  of  qualified  staff,  international  migration, 
morbidity and premature mortality.
On  education  and  training,  the  Secretary-General 
notes  that  African  countries  have  made  significant 
efforts and achieved significant progress, in particular 
in  primary  and  secondary  education,  especially  for 
girls. Our country is among the leaders in this field. As 
he points out in paragraph 38 of his report, regarding 
challenges,  African  Governments  must  continue  to 
promote education policies that better prepare students 
with  the  right  skills  and  opportunities  for  decent 
employment.
With  regard  to  the  environment  and  tourism, 
African  countries  have  also  made  progress  in  areas 
such as the fight against soil degradation and drought 
and  desertification,  and 
in  wetland  conservation 
and  protected  areas,  as  well  as  transboundary  water 
management  and  management  of  natural  resources. 
The  continent  has  seen  an  increase  of  approximately 
52 million tourists, as noted by the Secretary-General. 
Our  country  doubled  its  share  of  tourists  during  the 
reporting period.
To  consolidate  that  progress,  especially  in  terms 
of  the  environment,  African  countries  must  receive 
a  fair  share  of  environmental  programme  funding, 
in  particular  in  those  relating  to  forests.  Need  we 
emphasize yet again that the Congo Basin is the second 
largest forest reserve in the world, after the Amazon, 
and  that  countries  that  have  such  reserves,  such  as 
Cameroon,  are  contributing  to  the  best  interests  of 
humankind in terms of climate, biodiversity, economy 
and  other  so-called  global  goods?  We  must  therefore 
ensure that such goods can be enjoyed and obtain due 
recompense from sharing them with humankind.
I shall now turn to information and communications 
technology. In his report, the Secretary-General noted 
the  two  major  NEPAD  objectives  in  that  connection, 
namely,  connecting  all  African  countries  with  one 
and 
information 
another and with the rest of the world through broadband 
fibre-optic  submarine  cables,  and 
the  e-Schools 
initiative, intended to equip all primary and secondary 
schools  with 
communications 
technology. African countries have made commendable 
progress  in  that  regard,  including  in  the  areas  of  the 
protection of intellectual property and information and 
communications  technology  governance.  Our  country 
is  working  with  the  relevant  national  authorities  to 
develop an extensive programme and projects related to 
information communications and technology. 
Nevertheless, as the Secretary-General emphasizes, 
since Africa is a diverse continent with many languages, 
traditions  and  customs,  solutions  must  be  adapted  to 
specific  countries’  markets,  and  the  African  Union 
must  receive  support  to  create  an  attractive  regional 
home for the pan-African Internet community and the 
Governmental  Advisory  Committee  of  the  Internet 
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers.
With regard to science and technology, the report 
highlights  NEPAD’s  efforts  to  forge  partnerships  and 
utilize  them  to  promote  innovation  in  Africa  through 
regional networks of centres of excellence in biosciences 
and  African  indicators  for  science,  technology  and 
innovation. We support those efforts and emphasize all 
the initiatives undertaken by Cameroon at the national 
level through the Ministry of Scientific and Technical 
Research and Innovation.
With 
regard 
the 
to  gender 
equality,  women’s 
empowerment  and  the  participation  of  civil  society, 
the  Secretary-General  highlights 
important 
commitments made   by African Governments in various 
international instruments and the encouraging progress 
in  honouring  those  commitments.  Cameroon  is  in 
the  vanguard  here  as  well,  with  respect  to  ensuring 
the  rights  of  women,  children  and  the  disabled  and 
the  participation  of  civil  society,  including  youth,  in 
development, for which purpose a national agency has 
been established.
Regarding  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
the  Secretary-General  notes  that  it  has  continued  to 
strengthen  and  institutionalize  good  political  and 
economic  governance  and  business  management  in 
Africa.  Thirty-three  countries,  including  Cameroon, 
have  acceded  to  the  Mechanism,  17  of  which  have 
already  been  reviewed.  Democracy,  good  governance 
and  respect  for  human  rights  are  increasingly  better 
defended  in  Africa,  thanks  to  the  Mechanism,  the 
Peace and Security Council of the African Union and 
8/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
various measures taken by African Governments at the 
national, subregional and continental levels.
The series of commitments and the progress on the 
part of Africa, which the Secretary-General notes in his 
report, and in the various areas I have just mentioned, 
have not met with firm and reciprocal commitments on 
the part of the international community. The Secretary-
General  deplores  several  shortcomings,  including  the 
flow  of  development  aid  to  the  continent,  which  has 
remained  below  the  level  of  the  promises  made.  The 
number of traditional donors — a source of capital for 
Africa — continues to fall. 
The debt burden of African countries continues to 
decline.  Foreign  direct  investment  and  other  private 
flows  increased  slightly  but  are  concentrated  in  a 
few  countries  and  in  the  extractive  industries,  while 
African  priorities  for  industry  are  aimed  at  the  rapid 
transformation and enhancement of the added value of 
primary products in all African countries. 
Aid-for-trade  resources  allocated  to  Africa  have 
declined. In this somewhat bleak picture, encouraging 
signs have appeared in Africa’s cooperation with some 
of  its  strategic  partners,  especially  new  emerging 
countries,  in  particular  those  of  the  South.  The  same 
is  true  of  cooperation  in  the  Tokyo  International 
Conference  on  African  Development  process,  with 
the  announcement  by  Japan  of  new  funding  and  with 
China, the Republic of Korea, India, Brazil, Turkey and 
the  United  States  also  announcing  comprehensive  or 
sector-specific funding. The fact remains that all these 
funds must materialize in order not to repeat the pattern 
of  earlier  promises  that  have  yet  to  be  fulfilled.  It  is 
well  understood  that  African  countries  should  make 
every effort to ensure aid effectiveness, as agreed at the 
conferences held in Paris and the more recent ones held 
in Busan, Republic of Korea.
The support provided by the United Nations entities 
is as diverse as the entities themselves and is focused on 
their respective areas of competence. We welcome all 
such contributions and hope that their coverage in future 
reports of the Secretary-General will include a critical 
analysis based on a projected matrix that defines, ahead 
of time, the nature, objectives and eventual amounts of 
each of the expected contributions, validated according 
to an implementation time table.
With  respect 
the  Doha  Round  of 
negotiations  should  be  concluded  as  soon  as  possible 
and should adopt recommendations supporting greater 
trade, 
to 
integration of African countries into the global economy 
through dealing with the structural and infrastructure 
barriers that impede their participation in international 
trade.
Finally,  we  support  all 
the  conclusions  and 
recommendations made   by the Secretary-General in his 
report, in particular that asking donors to honour their 
commitments to Africa and the one on creating a United 
Nations  mechanism  responsible  for  following  up  on 
commitments made for the development of Africa. The 
Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on  Africa,  which  will  serve  as  the  secretariat  of  that 
mechanism,  should  be  strengthened.  We  support  the 
Secretary-General’s  proposals  on  this  subject,  which 
will be considered by the Fifth Committee.
The report of the Secretary-General on the causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/68/220) provides 
an  update  on  the  issue  by  focusing  on  the  major 
developments that occurred during the past 12 months 
in Africa, and on the efforts and activities undertaken 
to  strengthen  cooperation,  conflict  prevention  and 
management, 
peacebuilding, 
reconstruction  in  the  aftermath  of  conflict,  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law,  the  administration  of  justice, 
support  for  the  reform  of  the  security  sector,  and 
disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration.  All 
these activities clearly show that our continent is still 
affected by turmoil, ideological rivalries and the great 
diversity of its interests.
peacekeeping 
and 
The  current  situation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  deserves  particular  attention  with  a  view 
to  preventing  that  brotherly  country  —  which  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  was  already  dealing 
with  —  from  getting  bogged  down  again  in  an  acute 
crisis  with  various  repercussions  for  our  subregion 
and  the  African  continent  in  general.  The  countries 
of  Central  Africa  and  the  African  Union  have  taken 
important measures to safeguard peace and to return to 
constitutional order in that country. 
Cameroon actively contributes to those measures, 
as evidenced by, among other things, the participation 
of  a  contingent  from  our  country  in  peacekeeping 
efforts  in  Central  Africa  and  the  recent  appointment 
of  a  Cameroonian  general  to  lead  the  African-led 
international  support  mission  for  the  Central  African 
Republic.  We  call  for  and  welcome  the  efforts  and 
support  provided,  or  to  be  provided,  by  the  United 
Nations and other partners for peace and development 
13-53103
9/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
in  Central  Africa,  following  the  recent  appeal  and 
measures  taken  or  envisaged  for  the  Central  African 
Republic by the countries of the community of Central 
African States.
Beyond that, and in the Gulf of Guinea as a whole, 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  have  seen  something  of  a 
resurgence. It was in order to counteract that phenomenon 
that, at the urging of the Security Council, the countries 
of  West  and  Central  Africa  met  in  Cameroon  on 
24 and 25 June and adopted some significant measures, 
including  the  creation  of  a  centre  for  interregional 
coordination  based  in  Yaoundé.  Arrangements  are 
under way to have the centre up and running as soon 
as possible. We will need the cooperation of the United 
Nations  and  other  international  partners  in  order  to 
strengthen its effectiveness.
Concerning  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa,  the 
efforts  of  African  countries,  which  are  evaluated 
quarterly  by  the  Steering  Committee  of  the  African 
Leaders Malaria Alliance, continue to have appreciable 
results. Our country is once again in the front line in 
terms of policymaking, as well as with robust measures 
implemented by the Ministry of Public Health. It should 
be  emphasized  that  prevention  is  always  better  than 
cure, and to that end, indoor spraying of homes and free 
distribution of long-lasting insecticide-treated nets are 
valuable assets in the fight against malaria. Nonetheless, 
the  African  and  world  scientific  community  must 
continue  to  work  determinedly  to  find  an  effective 
vaccine against this scourge as soon as possible, with 
the level of commitment that Africa itself has shown in 
the quest to definitively eradicate malaria.
As officials of NEPAD, the Economic Commission 
for  Africa  and  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa put it so aptly in their joint publication of August 
2012:
“The  next  decade  of  development  in  Africa  must 
be  driven  by  renewed  efforts  towards  increasing 
ownership  and  maximizing  Africa’s  own  internal 
potential, resources and talents for the continent’s 
development.  Many  challenges  and  opportunities 
lie ahead. Africa will only succeed if it continues 
on 
its  path  of  comprehensive  political  and 
socioeconomic reforms, hinged on the core values 
of  strong  African  ownership, 
leadership  and 
value-driven  partnership.”  (Africa’s  Decade  of 
Change: Reflections on 10 Years of NEPAD, p. viii)
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  I  am  grateful  for 
the 
opportunity  to  interact  in  the  consideration  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  very 
reports  on 
sub-items (a) and (b) of agenda item 63 (A/68/222 and 
A/68/220). We appreciate the opportunity to deliberate 
on matters of great importance to our region.
interesting 
First, my delegation aligns itself with the statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Ethiopia  on 
behalf of the African Group (see A/68/PV.36).
The  economic  and  development  challenges 
facing  Africa  are  indeed  unique,  and  approaches 
designed  to  resolve  them  must  lend  credence  to  a 
development  philosophy  that  takes  due  cognizance 
of  local  circumstances,  recognizes  the  utilization  of 
subregional,  regional  and  international  mechanisms 
for development, and uses a new paradigm in charting 
a  development  path  for  Africa.  Those  challenges  led 
to  the  creation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  more  than  a  decade  ago,  as 
Africa’s blueprint, with an emphasis on ownership and 
partnership, geared to securing the economic renewal 
and development of the continent.
Nigeria  reiterates  that  efforts  should  be  directed 
towards  attaining  the  established  targets  for  each  of 
the  nine  clusters  identified  by  NEPAD,  and  calls  on 
all  African  countries  and  their  partners  to  build  on 
existing  progress  and  fully  align  themselves  with 
NEPAD’s operational blueprint. In that regard, we note 
that failures of past development plans in Africa have 
had less to do with the lack of effective frameworks and 
more  with  haphazard  implementation.  My  delegation 
therefore  commends  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa,  the  African  Development  Bank,  the  United 
Nations development partners and other regional players 
for  their  efforts  to  implement  NEPAD’s  programmes 
and  objectives,  and  for  providing  technical  and  other 
specialized services to member States.
Since NEPAD’s inception, there has been renewed 
confidence that through its ongoing strategies, Africa 
will be able to resolve its development challenges. It is, 
however, imperative to ensure that its broader mandate 
remains  in  focus.  In  that  regard,  divergent  interests 
must  be  supplanted  by  the  collective,  and  member 
States’  commitments  to  successful  partnership  must 
remain unwavering. 
Nigeria  stresses  the  need  for  individual  States  to 
strive  harder  to  mainstream  the  development  agenda 
into  their  sectoral  programmes,  using  regional  blocs 
10/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
as  tools  for  continental  economic  integration.  Nigeria 
therefore  commends  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  and  its  member  States  for  their 
various contributions, which culminated in the signing 
in 2009 of the first regional agricultural compact. We 
believe  that  such  positive  steps  can  be  replicated  in 
other subregions and meshed into the larger continental 
project.
during  its  campaign  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the 
Security  Council  during  the  past  week.  There  is  no 
doubt that the prevention of conflict is a cheaper option 
for maintaining peace and security in the world. Indeed, 
it  is  becoming  evident  that  the  prevention  of  conflict 
is the best way to preserve the gains of development. 
There  is,  therefore,  a  need  to  continue  to  give  new 
impetus to all conflict-prevention strategies.
It  has  been  recognized  worldwide  that  NEPAD 
stands  on  the  planks  of  good  governance,  capacity-
building  and  partnership.  In  order  to  generate  the 
momentum  required  to  guarantee  steady  progress 
towards implementation of the partnerships’ objectives, 
we must not lose sight of the need to boost the continent’s 
capacity  to  govern  and  to  develop  long-term  policies 
and strategies.
While  we  acknowledge 
that  much  progress 
has  been  made  in  implementing  NEPAD  priority 
sectors,  we  believe  that  more  remains  to  be  done 
with  regard  to  the  NEPAD  agenda,  particularly  in 
the  area  of  infrastructure  and  development.  Nigeria 
therefore  welcomes  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa and the implementation of the 
Presidential  Infrastructure  Champion  Initiative.  We 
believe  that  the  infrastructural  deficit  is  one  of  the 
factors  responsible  for  the  failure  to  attain  of  many 
of  our  objectives  for  development  in  Africa.  Nigeria 
is firmly of the view that NEPAD’s goals of building 
strong  economic 
infrastructures  and  creating  a 
favourable environment for investment remain crucial. 
It is through that approach that Africa can be pulled out 
of its current economic difficulties in order to enable it 
to prosper, as it rightly should. 
With  regard  to  sub-item  (b),  much  has  been  said 
about the inextricable link between durable peace and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa.  A  continent  as 
diverse  as  Africa  can  best  realize  partnership  when 
rancourous impediments give way to lasting peace and 
security. 
My delegation recognizes that conflict, no matter 
what  its  size,  poses  serious  challenges  to  the  proper 
integration  of  African  States,  as  it  hampers  the 
successful  implementation  of  the  NEPAD  goals.  My 
delegation  calls  for  the  continued  utilization  of  the 
continent’s  early-warning  system  aimed  at  preventing 
conflicts. In addition, Member States should embrace 
an effective mechanism to mediate between conflicting 
interests.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  Nigeria  chose  the 
theme  of  advocating  preventive  diplomacy  for  peace 
Poverty is both a cause and an effect of conflicts 
in  Africa  and  remains  a  global  challenge,  since  the 
effects  transcend  African  frontiers.  It  is  therefore  the 
responsibility  of  all  to  engage  as  positive  catalysts  in 
actualizing  a  conflict-free  Africa,  in  order  to  ensure 
that the achievements so far recorded in the region are 
further consolidated. In that regard, we commend the 
efforts of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD) in reconstructing post-conflict countries and 
providing credible transition and exit strategies. We also 
call for the continued financial and institutional support 
of the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission. 
Moving to the next issue on the agenda, which is 
the health-related sector, we note that malaria remains 
a  major  public  health  and  development  challenge  in 
Africa, as well as in Nigeria. However, we have fully 
embraced the unique opportunities to scale up malaria-
related interventions, strengthen our systems and make 
a major effort to roll back that disease. 
In  our  commitment  to  accelerate  and  intensify 
efforts on malaria control, the Federal Government of 
Nigeria  launched  the  National  Malaria  Strategic  Plan 
2009-2013  for  malaria  control,  which  was  developed 
by the National Malaria Control Programme, together 
with the partners of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, 
state governments and other stakeholders. The Malaria 
Strategic  Plan  addresses  national  health  development 
priorities,  including  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Global 
Strategic  Plan  2005-2015  and 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  Malaria  Strategic 
Plan  is  organized  around  a  balanced  package  of 
preventive  medicine  services  to  reduce  the  disease 
burden  and  curative  services  to  care  for  the  sick. 
The  Plan  also  addresses  the  stated  priority  of  a  rapid 
scale-up  of  prevention  interventions  to  decrease  the 
infection  burden  and  to  rapidly  decrease  the  costs  of 
curative  care  in  terms  of  drug  costs,  health  capacity 
operations and household expenditure. 
Nigeria  has  also  commenced  the  development  of 
a  new  Malaria  Strategic  Plan  for  2014-2020,  whose 
emphasis  is  on  malaria  elimination.  We  also  wish  to 
13-53103
11/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
inform the Assembly that Nigeria was selected as one 
of the nine countries to pilot the Affordable Medicines 
Facility-Malaria. That project, which is managed by the 
Global Fund, receives financial support from the Joint 
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the United 
Kingdom’s Department for International Development 
and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Its goal is 
to  reduce  the  retail  price  of  artemisinin  combination 
therapies  to  a  point  where  they  are  as  affordable  as 
many of the cheapest antimalarial monotherapies. We 
also wish to inform the Assembly that the United States 
Agency  for  International  Development  has  funded 
malaria activities in Nigeria. 
In 2011, Nigeria became a recipient country under 
the President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI) of the United 
States  Government.  Through  the  years,  we  have 
received a total of $103.7 million in funding for 2011 and 
2012. The 2013 PMI operational plan for Nigeria was 
developed during a planning visit, carried out in June 
2012  with  the  United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  and 
the  United  States  Centers  for 
Disease Control and Prevention headquarters and field 
staff. The Global Fund’s phase 2 has been targeted at 
procuring  26  million  long-lasting  insecticide-treated 
nets, between 2011 and 2014, with a co-funding option 
for  about  10  million  more  such  nets  during  that  time 
frame. 
Nigeria,  along  with  other  African  countries, 
recently adopted the African Union road map on shared 
responsibility  and  global  solidarity  for  HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis and malaria, based on the three pillars of 
innovative financing, universal access to medicines and 
diagnostics, and committed leadership and governance. 
We  will  continue  to  play  an  active  role  in  vigorously 
supporting  the  objectives  of  the  road  map  and  their 
beneficial advancement.
In  line  with  our  unwavering  commitment  to 
multilateral action in the fight against malaria and other 
diseases,  Nigeria  hosted  the  Special  Summit  of  the 
African Union on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, 
held in Abuja in July 2013. Among other outcomes, the 
Summit  was  able  to  review  the  level  of  achievement 
of the targets set at the 2001 and 2006 African Union 
meetings,  identify  gaps,  constraints  and  challenges 
relating to the achievement of the Abuja Declaration on 
HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Other Related Infectious 
Diseases  and  the  MDG  targets  and  also  identify  new 
strategies  that  will  enable  Africa  to  chart  a  new  and 
more realistic course towards achieving those targets. 
Most  importantly,  there  was  renewed  commitment 
by  African  leaders  to  addressing  those  diseases  and 
promoting health and well-being in Africa. The Federal 
Government has a special interest in malaria elimination 
and  is  determined  to  continue  pursuing  a  framework 
that  will  give  the  necessary  support  to  ensure  the 
elimination of the disease and the achievement of the 
MDGs and their relevant targets. 
Finally,  other  issues  raised  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report are of great interest to Nigeria and have 
either been addressed in Committee meetings or will be 
taken up at appropriate meetings in order to elaborate 
on their importance and the actions being taken at the 
national level to implement them competently and in a 
structured manner. 
Mr. Kaganda (United Republic of Tanzania): It is 
an honour for the United Republic of Tanzania to address 
the Assembly on this important day for Africa — a day 
on which we celebrate not only the fiftieth anniversary 
of the Organization of African Unity and the African 
Union,  but  also  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  African 
Peer Review Mechanism and the Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP). 
We align ourselves with the statements delivered by 
the representative of Ethiopia on behalf of Africa and 
by the representative of China on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China (see A/68/PV.36).
Africa has made considerable gains in strengthening 
governance.  Efforts  are  ongoing  to  promote  and 
reinforce further governance through the African Peer 
Review  Mechanism  (APRM)  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  Similarly,  many 
African  countries  are  now  embracing  democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law  and  promoting  transparent  public 
administration.  However,  more  work  is  needed  to 
strengthen the gains achieved in that area.
Africa still faces myriad challenges, some of which 
are chronic. Some areas of the continent are entangled 
in protracted conflicts that continue to claim the lives 
of thousands, while displacing millions and hampering 
development.  Steadily,  but  surely,  we  are  seeing  the 
positive  results  of  African  solutions  to  those  African 
challenges.  And  we  are  committed  to  eradicating 
conflicts in the continent by addressing the underlying 
causes.
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  is  among  the 
31  African  countries  that  have  voluntarily  acceded  to 
the APRM. In so doing, we undertook to promote and 
12/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
protect  democracy  and  human  rights  by  developing 
clear  standards  of  accountability,  transparency  and 
participatory governance. We have submitted periodic 
reports  to  the  Mechanism.  Our  first  country  report, 
issued early this year, records remarkable progress on 
democratic and economic governance and management. 
It  also  notes  the  challenges  that  remain  in  translating 
economic  growth  into  broad-based,  pro-poor  and 
inclusive  development.  The  Government  has  made  a 
commitment to the national programme of action as a 
way of implementing the APRM recommendations.
Our  main  task  consists  of  efforts  to  reduce 
poverty, inequality and youth unemployment and foster 
inclusive, transformative development. We believe we 
can  succeed.  In  doing  so,  we  will  count  on  all  social 
actors and development partners in the spirit of NEPAD.
In celebrating the tenth anniversary of CAADP, we 
are reminded that agriculture is the backbone of most 
African  countries,  including  my  country,  Tanzania, 
where  about  70  per  cent  of  the  population  depends 
on agriculture for its livelihood. In that regard, many 
Governments  have  undertaken  to  increase  investment 
in agriculture so as to increase crop productivity and, 
ultimately,  food  security.  My  Government  allocates 
almost 10 per cent of the national budget to agricultural 
development and food security and has initiated several 
public-private  partnerships  in  that  sector,  taking  full 
advantage  of  the  conducive  investment  climate  in  the 
country.
Another  challenge  for  Africa  is  malaria.  Since 
2001,  when  the  General  Assembly  adopted  its  first 
resolution on malaria in Africa (resolution 55/284), we 
have  witnessed  enhanced  political  commitment  and 
global  attention  in  the  fight  against  malaria.  At  least 
11 African countries and 32 malaria-endemic countries 
outside Africa have reduced the number of confirmed 
cases of malaria recorded between 2000 and 2009 by 
more than 50 per cent. Hundreds of thousands of lives 
have been saved.
Despite 
the  fact 
that  malaria 
is  an  entirely 
preventable  and  treatable  disease,  too  many  people 
continue  to  suffer  and  die  from  malaria.  When  100 
people  die  in  an  accident,  or  in  war,  we  are  shocked. 
We  should,  however,  remember  that  in  2010  alone 
the  disease  killed  an  estimated  660,000  people.  In 
Tanzania,  malaria  is  a  leading  cause  of  inpatient  and 
outpatient  visits  and  deaths.  Between  30  and  40  per 
cent of all outpatient visits are attributable to malaria. 
It is a leading killer of children and pregnant women, 
who are dying every day.
Malaria control remains a global emergency — even 
more  so  for  Africa.  Malaria-control  interventions 
positively impact overall child and maternal mortality 
rates  and  could  help  in  reaching  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  —  particularly  Goals  4  and  5, 
concerning  reducing  child  mortality  and  improving 
maternal health, respectively — by 2015. That is why 
my Government has implemented several interventions 
to address the disease.
My  country  has  succeeded  in  reducing  malaria 
prevalence  in  young  children  by  44  percent  between 
2008 and May 2012. In Zanzibar, death due to malaria 
is  near  zero.  Our  challenge  in  Zanzibar  is  to  sustain 
that  achievement.  As  for  mainland  Tanzania,  we  are 
replicating  the  lessons  learned  from  the  island  of 
Zanzibar, namely, residual spraying on malaria breeding 
sites;  making  available  long-term  insecticide-treated 
bednets for every bed; early treatment for those infected 
with malaria and control and surveillance to prevent the 
re-emergence of the epidemic.
On the other hand, the Government has embarked 
on an expensive comprehensive programme to deal with 
the question of access to health care. The programme 
will ensure that there is a dispensary in every village 
and a health-care centre in every ward. The programme 
will  certainly  be  instrumental  in  the  success  of  our 
anti-malaria effort, as it will guarantee prompt diagnosis 
and treatment. In that endeavour, we need partnerships 
and  support  from  the  international  community.  We 
thank our bilateral and multilateral partners that have 
provided  us  with  financial  and  technical  support.  We 
call  for  their  continued  support  to  complement  the 
Government’s  efforts  in  implementing  the  malaria 
strategy and eradicating malaria in Tanzania.
The  challenge  facing  the  global  community  is  to 
intensify  efforts  and  commitments  in  order  to  avoid 
reversal  of  the  gains  made  thus  far,  and  to  push  for 
greater  progress  in  sustainable  interventions.  Many 
strategies  have  been  put  in  place  to  combat  malaria. 
In  that  regard,  we  recognize  the  work  of  the  African 
Leaders Malaria Alliance to that end.
We  have  learned  that  the  current  strategies  alone 
are  unlikely  to  achieve  the  goal  of  eliminating  the 
disease.  We  also  risk  diminishing  efficacy,  due  to 
the  development  of  drug  resistance  and  insecticide 
resistance  on  the  part  of  parasites  and  the  anopheles 
13-53103
13/15
A/68/PV.37 
25/10/2013
mosquito, respectively. That is why, on 24 September, 
the  Multisectoral  Action  Framework  for  Malaria  was 
launched.  The  Action  Framework  proposes  broad 
advances in human development and further joint action 
from global and sectoral ministries directed at village 
level. We call on Member States and the international 
community to support that broad global effort.
We  also  take  the  opportunity  to  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s  selection  of  malaria  as  a  priority 
of  his  five-year  action  agenda  covering  the  period 
2012-2017.  We  believe  that  commitment  will  promote 
new  partnerships  and  improve  existing  ones,  with 
the  aim  of  scaling  up  high-impact  interventions  and 
significantly reducing the number of malaria deaths.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  urge  the  international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  to  work  more 
closely and actively with the African Union in an effort 
to  resolve  the  remaining  conflicts  and  consolidate 
peace and security in Africa. We need to work together 
to ensure that malaria control and elimination remains 
a  key  priority  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
We  must  also  ensure  sustained  focus  and  attention 
on  strengthening  health  systems  and  human  capacity 
development  to  enable  malaria-endemic  countries  to 
improve their overall response to the challenges.
Permit me to conclude by reiterating our national 
motto with respect to malaria: “Malaria is unacceptable; 
let us join hands to eliminate it”.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique):  As  this  is  the  first 
time  I  take  the  floor  since  the  President  assumed  his 
functions as President of the General Assembly, allow 
me  to  start  by  warmly  congratulating  him  and  all 
members  of  the  Bureau  on  their  elections  to  preside 
over the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. 
I  wish  to  reiterate  the  commitment  expressed  by  His 
Excellency President Armando Guebuza in the general 
debate (see A/68/PV.5) to render all our support to the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the  successful 
outcome of this session. 
Mozambique  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representative of Ethiopia on behalf of 
the African Group and by the representative of Fiji on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.36).
This joint debate is being held against the backdrop 
of the momentum created by the commemoration of the 
fiftieth anniversary of the formation of the Organization 
of  African  Unity  and  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
African Union (AU) — a celebration that has reaffirmed 
the  principles  and  values  of  pan-Africanism  and 
African renaissance. It has been a year of acclamation 
of  Africa’s  accomplishments  and  of  reaffirmation  of 
its  resolve  to  fulfil  the  vision  of  social  progress  for 
the  peoples  of  Africa  through  democratic  governance 
and  economic  emancipation.  It  would  therefore  have 
been desirable that this historic moment be celebrated 
in  peace  to  permit  us  to  focus  our  attention  on  our 
development  goals.  That  is  an  aspiration  that  we  will 
continue to pursue with resolve.
In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the  two  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General  under  consideration  (A/68/220  and 
A/68/222) and would like to seize this opportunity to 
express our appreciation for his tireless efforts to uphold 
the United Nations commitment to supporting Africa’s 
agenda  for  peace  and  sustainable  development.  I  also 
wish to commend the Special Adviser on Africa for his 
continued engagement to generate effective support for 
Africa and for undertaking the various initiatives that 
marked  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  New  Economic 
Partnership for Africa’s Development and the African 
Peer Review Mechanism.
Since  the  1990s,  Africa  has  been  engaged  in 
a  democratization  process  that,  in  its  essence,  is  a 
recognition  that  peace  and  stability  can  be  sustained 
only  in  an  inclusive  society.  As  a  result,  at  this  early 
stage of our democracies, the steps taken to modernize 
the judicial system, the consolidation of the role of our 
civil society and the culture of the rule of law in Africa 
is a clear and positive indication that we are indeed on 
the right path.
Galvanized by that belief and by the desire for peace, 
Mozambique  embarked  on  a  democratization  process 
involving a review of its Constitution in 1990 and 2004, 
first  in  order  to  introduce  the  essential  principles  for 
the exercise of a multiparty democracy — namely, the 
democratic  rule  of  law,  the  separation  of  powers  and 
political  pluralism  —  and,  secondly,  to  reaffirm  and 
deepen those democratic principles. In that endeavour, 
citizen  participation  in  all  spheres  of  life  proved  to 
be  an  enabling  tool  for  inclusive  governance.  Giving 
a  voice  to  the  people  is  fundamental  in  a  democratic 
society, as it allows them to be conscious participants 
in the national development process. In that regard, the 
decentralization  and  devolution  of  decision-making 
processes 
fostering 
social  inclusion  and  thus  reinforce  democracy  and 
prevent  conflicts.  Similarly,  strengthening  integrity 
and  transparency  mechanisms  to  guarantee  a  fair 
undoubtedly 
contribute 
to 
14/15 
13-53103
25/10/2013 
A/68/PV.37
distribution  of  resources,  through  improved  access  to 
public  goods  and  services  such  as  education,  health, 
safe drinking water and job opportunities, adds to those 
noble goals.
As  part  of  its  development  agenda,  Mozambique 
embarked on a decentralization and devolution process 
that seeks to ensure a more inclusive and participatory 
role for all stakeholders, including local communities. 
To that end, the Government established, among other 
measures, the District Consultative Board, an institution 
through which local communities have a decisive role in 
governance. To further empower the communities, the 
Government also established an Annual Fund for Local 
Development, commonly known as the Seven Million 
Fund,  to  finance  food  production  and  initiatives  that 
have the potential to generate employment in rural and 
urban areas. Local communities are the sole managers 
of  those  initiatives.  As  a  result,  we  have  upheld  the 
rule  of  law,  promoted  development  and  forged  more 
politically and economically empowered communities.
With  the  advent  of  multiparty  democracy,  the 
holding of multiparty democratic elections became part 
of our commitment to good governance and the rule of 
law. Unfortunately, progress in that area is challenged 
not only by the scourges of poverty and disease, which 
regrettably continue to affect a substantial part of our 
population, but also by the occurrence of incidents that 
are disruptive in their nature and peculiar to countries in 
post-conflict situations. Our experience has shown that 
political  dialogue  and  robust  democratic  institutions 
and  processes  represent  the  most  sustainable  solution 
to  political  instability.  To  that  end,  we  will  continue 
to use dialogue as the vehicle to nurture a democratic 
culture  under  which  political  forces  learn  to  conform 
to  democratic  principles  and  rules.  We  also  reiterate 
our  commitment  to  building  credible  institutions  that 
can adequately address the challenges brought about by 
democratic governance in our particular context.
In addition, we will continue to count on the African 
Peer Review Mechanism to address policy challenges, 
taking  advantage  of  its  constructive  and  inclusive 
dialogue with all stakeholders. That is, without a doubt, 
another instrument for confidence-building and for the 
reaffirmation of our national commitment to values and 
principles in political and economic governance.
Good governance demands respect for basic human 
rights,  from  civil  and  political  rights  to  economic, 
social  to  cultural  rights  —  all  inalienable  rights 
embedded in our overarching goals of peace, stability 
and  sustainable  development.  As  we  approach  the 
2015 deadline for the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), the uneven progress in attaining those goals, 
in particular in Africa, demands that special attention 
be  devoted  to  Africa’s  needs.  We  should  therefore 
strengthen the momentum generated by the Decade to 
Roll  Back  Malaria  and  direct  our  efforts  to  measures 
that go beyond the goal of malaria prevention. Malaria 
remains a great challenge to Africa’s efforts to achieve 
the  MDGs,  as  it  has  a  direct  impact  on  social  and 
economic structures, affecting the most vulnerable, in 
particular children under the age of 5, pregnant women, 
socially  disadvantaged  groups  and  people  living  with 
HIV/AIDS.
To  address  the  scourge  of  malaria,  as  well  the 
other  challenges  facing  Africa,  partnerships  are  of 
paramount  importance.  In  that  regard,  we  reiterate 
the call made by the Secretary-General for the United 
Nations  system,  Member  States  and  other  partners  to 
continue to strengthen their support to and cooperation 
with Africa.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  stressing  that  we  are 
confident that the engagement of Africa, coupled with 
the commitment of partners such as the Group of 20, 
the Group of Eight, Brazil, Russia, India, China, South 
Africa and others to support Africa’s efforts to attain 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  will  allow  us  to 
look at the future of Africa with increasing hope and 
optimism.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  63  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 13.
The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.
13-53103
15/15
