United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
7th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 24 September 2013, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.7
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m.
Address by Mr. Ueli Maurer, President of the  
Swiss Confederation
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Swiss Confederation.
Mr.  Ueli  Maurer,  President  of 
the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ueli  Maurer,  President  of  the 
Swiss Confederation, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Maurer (spoke in French): The world in 
which  we  live  is  profoundly  changing,  but  whether  it 
changes for the better is another matter. That is up to 
us.  We  often  get  the  impression  that  great  strides  are 
being  taken  towards  a  better,  more  peaceful  future. 
Unfortunately,  reality  imposes  disappointing  setbacks 
upon us. 
I  recall  an  important  step  taken  150  years  ago. 
In  1863,  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross  (ICRC)  was  founded  in  Geneva,  giving  rise  to 
a  global  movement.  Thanks  to  their  humanitarian 
spirit,  representatives  of  that  organization  work  to 
provide  humanitarian  help  worldwide  for  people 
affected by armed conflict and other violent situations. 
The  humanitarian  work  of  the  ICRC  is  based  on  the 
principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence. 
All victims of conflicts receive the same treatment, and 
help  is  granted  to  all  vulnerable  persons.  All  human 
beings are valued equally. 
Alongside  the  humanitarian  tradition  shared  by 
Switzerland  and  the  ICRC,  my  country  is  proud  of 
another  tradition  dating  back  centuries  —  neutrality. 
I would recall that for centuries Switzerland’s foreign 
policy  has  been  anchored  in  peaceful  coexistence 
among  States.  Thanks  to  our  neutrality,  we  maintain 
relations  with  all  countries.  We  never  take  sides,  but 
we  can  provide  support  or  propose  our  mediation. 
Furthermore, our neutrality allows us to offer our good 
offices. 
Humanitarian engagement is part of our history. It 
is an honour for us to make our neutral soil available 
for peace talks, and we will continue to do all we can 
to contribute towards peace in the world, in particular 
through our good offices. That impartial work is based 
on our belief that there are differences between people 
and  between  nations.  Those  differences  are  natural. 
Moreover, all human beings enjoy equal rights. 
The protection of human rights is a key element of 
the Swiss commitment. Those rights are an expression 
of  the  obligations  set  out  under  international  law  and 
must  be  protected.  Switzerland  is  concerned  by  the 
widespread excesses of violence and numerous human 
rights violations. It calls on all States and civilian actors 
to renounce violence. 
In the Middle East, violent conflicts are imposing 
unacceptable  suffering  on  the  civil  population.  The 
situation in Syria has deteriorated to such an extent that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48461 (E)
*1348461*
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
humanitarian organizations are unable to cope. Serious 
and  systematic  violations  and  abuses  of  international 
humanitarian law and human rights cannot be tolerated 
in  any  circumstances.  Such  crimes  must  not  go 
unpunished,  regardless  of  which  side  is  responsible. 
That is why my country, together with 57 like-minded 
States,  called  on  the  Security  Council  in  January  to 
refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal 
Court.  The  use  of  chemical  weapons  is  a  particularly 
despicable  crime.  It  is  imperative  to  shed  light  on  all 
facts. With that in mind, Switzerland welcomes recent 
developments. 
I stress the need for the international community to 
spare no effort to pave the way for another conference 
at the earliest possible date in Geneva. That conference 
should  result  in  a  negotiated  and  lasting  solution  that 
would  take  into  account  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
all Syrians.
Switzerland  is  not  the  only  country  bound  by  the 
principle  of  equal  rights.  The  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations endows it with universal validity. The preamble 
reaffirms  “faith  in  fundamental  human  rights,  in  the 
dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person,  in  the  equal 
rights of men and women”. 
What  applies  to  all  human  beings  also  applies  to 
the States we live in. That is why, in the same sentence, 
after referring to the fundamental rights of all people, 
the  Charter  refers  explicitly  to  the  equal  rights  of 
nations “large and small”. Under paragraph 2 of Article 
I of the Charter, the United Nations seeks “to develop 
friendly  relations  among  nations  based  on  respect  for 
the principle of equal rights and self-determination of 
peoples”. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 states that 
“[t]he Organization is based on the principle of the 
sovereign equality of all its Members.”
I firmly believe that those principles are the keystone for 
the peaceful coexistence of all people and populations 
of this world.
But are we still sufficiently aware of this? Or are 
we prone to lose ourselves in grandiose ideas and minor 
details?  I  have  the  impression  that  in  international 
politics too much is said of how things should be in an 
ideal  world  and  too  little  about  reality.  I  cannot  help 
but  feel  that  excessive  bureaucracy  creates  a  kind  of 
parallel  universe  that  leads  to  increased  isolation.  At 
the  end  of  the  day,  that  leads  to  increasingly  higher 
costs and fewer concrete results.
Global problems need more than general discussions; 
above all, they require a search for solutions shared by 
all parties. The United Nations was created to find such 
solutions, and to that end it must be efficient, innovative 
and effective. Only thus will it be able to make progress 
in  ensuring  the  equal  rights  of  people  and  nations. 
Switzerland is firmly committed to contributing to that 
task. At present, certain developments are at odds with 
the shared values laid down in the Charter. I would like 
to  address  those  subjects  and  launch  a  discussion  on 
these worrisome developments.
As  the  representative  of  a  neutral  State  with  a 
long-standing  humanitarian  tradition,  it  is  with  some 
concern  that  I  observe  the  growing  resurgence  of 
power politics. I note that large States are once again 
choosing to exercise their power and force and that they 
view  smaller  States  less  and  less  as  equal  partners.  I 
sincerely hope that this trend will be reversed as soon 
as possible. Otherwise, the fundamental values of the 
Charter, which unite the international community and 
to which its members feel committed, will be placed in 
doubt. 
As  I  have  already  said,  the  tendency  towards 
power  politics  on  the  international  stage  worries  me, 
for we believe that the countries on this planet should 
be  free  to  choose  their  own  futures,  even  as  they 
respect  others  States  and  accept  the  rules  of  peaceful 
coexistence  among  peoples,  without  sacrificing  their 
specific character. We believe in peaceful competition 
among  economies.  We  believe  in  the  diversity  of  the 
world  —  the  peaceful  diversity  of  sovereign  States 
that  treat  one  another  fairly  and  as  equal  partners. 
People are free to draw up their own constitutions and 
to determine their own economic order and their own 
system of law. No State may impose its law over that 
of another country. Problems are not solved by diktat, 
but through negotiations. The shared norms and rules 
of international law exist to ensure that it is not simply 
the law of the strongest that applies. The principles of 
sovereignty and equal rights provide peace and stability 
and foster friendly relations between all peoples.
Those are the convictions upon which the Charter 
of the United Nations is based. Do we still share these 
convictions today? 
The  way  in  which  large  nations  have  acted  in 
dealings with small nations recently has disturbed me 
because I often have the impression that force has often 
been placed above the law. The United Nations is active 
2/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
in a vast range of areas. There is perhaps a risk that it 
has taken on too much and lost sight of what is essential 
and concrete. The United Nations and its Member States 
often  seem  at  a  loss  when  the  principles  upon  which 
the  Organization  were  founded  are  at  stake.  Let  us 
never forget what underlies these principles: the equal 
rights  of  people  and  the  equal  rights  and  sovereignty 
of  nations.  They  are  embodiments  of  the  lessons  of 
history, which has been a painful story of oppression, 
foreign domination and conflicts.
Together  we  must  decide  which  path  we  want  to 
take. Do we want to continue squandering our strength 
on issues of secondary interest? I believe that we should 
strive, here and now, to reaffirm and live out the values 
of  the  United  Nations.  Let  us  commit  ourselves  to 
achieving a peaceful world in which people and nations 
enjoy equal rights and are of equal value — a world in 
which right prevails over might. It is up to all of us here 
in this Hall to do all in our power to achieve that goal. 
Let us start without delay. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Swiss Confederation 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ueli  Maurer,  President  of 
the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. José Mujica, President of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of 
Uruguay.
into 
Mr. José Mujica, President of the Eastern Republic 
of  Uruguay,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  José  Mujica,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Mujica (spoke in Spanish): I come from 
the  South.  At  the  conjunction  of  the  Atlantic  and  the 
River  Plate,  my  country  is  a  gentle,  temperate  plain 
where livestock graze. Its history is one of ports, leather, 
salted beef, wool and meat. There were dark decades of 
lances  and  horses  until  finally,  with  the  outset  of  the 
twentieth  century,  we  were  at  the  forefront  of  social, 
education  and  governmental  affairs.  I  would  say  that 
social democracy was invented in Uruguay. 
For nearly 50 years, the world saw us as a kind of 
Switzerland, but in reality in economic matters we were 
the  bastard  children  of  the  British  Empire.  When  the 
empire  ended,  we  experienced  the  bitter  and  terrible 
terms of trade and we yearned for the past for almost 
50  years,  remembering  Maracaná.  Today,  we  have 
re-emerged in a globalized world, having learned from 
our pain. 
My  personal  story  is  that  of  a  boy  —  because  I 
once was a boy — who like others wanted to change his 
times and his world and dreamed of a free and classless 
society. My mistakes were in part the results of my era. 
Obviously I take responsibility for them, but sometimes 
I  cry:  “If  only  I  had  the  strength  that  I  had  when  we 
enjoyed such utopia!”
However,  I  do  not  look  towards  the  past  because 
what we have today was created from the fertile ashes 
of yesterday. On the contrary, I am not on this planet 
to settle scores or to reminisce. I am greatly anguished 
by  the  future  that  I  will  not  see,  and  to  which  I  have 
committed  myself.  Yes,  it  is  possible  to  have  a  world 
with more humanity, but perhaps today the main task 
is to save life.
I  am  from  the  South  and  I  have  come  from  the 
South to this Assembly. I share with the thousands of 
poor compatriots in cities, in the jungles, in the plains, 
in  the  pampas  and  the  canyons  of  Latin  America  the 
common  fatherland  that  we  are  creating.  I  bear  upon 
my  shoulders  the  indigenous  cultures,  the  remains 
of  colonialism  in  the  Malvinas,  and  the  futile  and 
regrettable  blockades  of  Cuba  under  the  Caribbean 
sun.  I  also  bear  the  consequences  of  the  electronic 
surveillance, which does nothing but create the distrust 
that  poisons  us  needlessly.  I  also  come  with  a  huge 
social debt and with the need to defend the Amazon, the 
seas, and our great rivers of America. I also have the 
duty to fight for all on behalf of my fatherland and so 
that Colombia can finally regain peace. I have the duty 
to  fight  for  tolerance  for  those  who  are  different  and 
with whom we have differences and disagreements. We 
do  not  need  tolerance  for  those  with  whom  we  agree. 
Tolerance  is  the  foundation  of  peaceful  coexistence, 
understanding that we are all different in this world. 
I fight against the illicit economy, drug trafficking, 
theft, fraud, corruption — the contemporary scourges 
unleashed  by  an  opposite  set  of  values  and  by  those 
13-48461
3/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
who maintain that we are happier when we are richer, 
no matter by what means. We have sacrificed the old, 
immaterial gods and we are now occupying the temple 
of the Market God. This god organizes our economy, our 
politics, our habits and our lives, and even provides us 
with rates and credit cards and the illusion of happiness. 
It seems that we have been born only to consume, and 
when we can no longer consume we are overcome by 
frustration, poverty and self-loathing.
It is true that today, in order to spend and to bury 
our garbage in what science calls the carbon footprint, 
if in this world we aspired to consume like the average 
American, we would need three planets in order to be 
able to live. In other words, our civilization has mounted 
a deceitful challenge, and as we go on it is not possible 
for everyone to achieve that goal. Indeed, our culture is 
increasinglt driven by accumulation and market forces. 
We  are  promised  a  life  of  spending  and  squandering; 
in  fact,  it  is  a  countdown  against  nature  and  against 
future humankind. It is a civilization against simplicity, 
against sobriety, against all natural cycles; worse yet, it 
is a civilization against freedom, which requires time to 
experience human relationships and the most important 
things:  love,  friendship,  adventure,  solidarity  and 
family.  It  is  a  civilization  against  free  time  that  does 
not  pay,  that  cannot  be  bought  and  that  allows  us  to 
contemplate the beauty of nature.
jungles.  We  have 
We  have  destroyed  the  real  jungles  and  sown 
anonymous  cement 
tackled  a 
sedentary lifestyle with walking, insomnia with pills, 
solitude  with  electronics.  Can  we  be  happy  when  we 
are  so  far  from  the  human  essence?  We  have  to  ask 
ourselves this question. Stupefied, we have rejected our 
own biological imperative, which defends life for life’s 
sake  as  a  superior  cause,  and  we  have  replaced  it  by 
functional consumerism and accumulation.
Politics, 
the  eternal  mother  of  all  human 
endeavours,  has  remained  shackled  to  the  economy 
and  to  the  marketplace.Going  from  one  adventure  to 
another, politics achieves little more than perpetuating 
itself, and as such it delegates its power and spends its 
time bewildered, fighting for the Government. Out of 
control,  human  history  marches  forward,  buying  and 
selling everything and innovating in order to negotiate 
what is, in a way, non-negotiable. Marketing exists for 
everything: cemeteries and funeral services, maternity 
wards, 
fathers,  mothers,  grandparents,  uncles, 
secretaries, cars and vacations. Everything is business. 
Marketing  campaigns  deliberately  target  children  and 
psychologically  influence  older  children  to  reserve 
safe territory for the future. Abundant evidence exists 
of such abominable uses of technology that sometimes 
induce mass frustration.
The average city dweller wanders between financial 
institutions  and  tedious  office  routines,  sometimes 
moderated by air conditioning. He often dreams about 
vacations  and  freedom.  He  dreams  about  having  the 
ability to pay his bills until one day his heart stops and 
he is gone. Other such soldiers will fall prey to the jaws 
of the marketplace, sharing in material accumulation.
The  crisis  really  rests  in  the  powerlessness  of 
politics,  which  is  incapable  of  understanding  that 
humankind  cannot  and  will  not  escape  nationalism, 
which is practically etched into our DNA. Today, it is 
time to fight to prepare a world without borders.
The globalized economy has no other driving force 
except  that  of  the  private  interests  of  the  very  few, 
and  each  nation  State  seeks  only  to  maintain  its  own 
stability. Today, the great task for our peoples and our 
humble  way  of  seeing  things  becomes  the  be-all  and 
end-all.  As  if  that  were  not  enough,  truly  productive 
capitalism is a prisoner of the banks, which are at the 
summit  of  global  power.  More  clearly,  the  world  is 
clamouring for global regulations that respect scientific 
achievements, which abound, but it is not science that 
governs the world.
Today, we need a lengthy agenda of definitions. We 
must  define  working  hours  throughout  the  world.  We 
need to have convergence among currencies. We need 
to  finance  the  global  struggle  for  water  and  against 
desertification.  We  have  to  figure  out  how  to  recycle 
more and how to counter global warming. What are the 
limits of each human task?
We  must  achieve  a  broad  planetary  consensus  to 
unleash  solidarity  among  the  most  oppressed  and  to 
punish and tax waste and speculation by mobilizing the 
large economies not to produce disposable goods, but 
rather  useful  goods  without  planned  obsolescence  or 
excess, which would help the world’s poorest peoples. 
Useful goods could stand against world poverty. Turning 
to a useful neo-Keynesianism on a global scale in order 
to  abolish  the  world’s  most  flagrant  embarrassments 
would be a thousand times more profitable than making 
war.
Perhaps our world needs fewer global organizations, 
organized  forums  and  conferences,  which  serve  only 
to aid hotel chains and airlines; perhaps no one really 
4/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
benefits from their decisions anyway. We must return 
to  what  is  old  and  eternal  in  human  life,  along  with 
science that strives to serve humankind, and not only 
the rich. With scientists, the counsellors of humankind, 
we can create agreements for the entire world. Neither 
the large nation States nor transnational companies, not 
to  mention  the  financial  system,  ought  to  govern  the 
world  of  humanity.  Yes,  lofty  politics  combined  with 
scientific wisdom — it must come from science, which 
is not attracted by material gain but looks towards the 
future  and  tells  us  about  things  we  may  not  foresee. 
How  many  years  ago  did  they  tell  us  in  Kyoto  about 
certain facts linked to climate change?
We  have  finally  learned  that  intelligence  must  be 
at  the  helm,  guiding  the  ship  to  port.  Actions  of  this 
nature and others that we cannot name, yet which we 
believe  to  be  crucial,  require  life  and  not  acquired 
wealth. Obviously, we are not so naïve; these and other 
things like that will not come to pass. Many pointless 
sacrifices still lie ahead of us. We still must deal with 
the consequences and not tackle the causes. Today, the 
world is incapable of establishing global regulations for 
the  planet,  due  to  the  failure  of  lofty  global  politics, 
which meddles with everything.
For  a  time,  we  were  protected  by  more  or  less 
regional  agreements,  established  to  create  a  deceitful 
so-called  free  trade  that  in  the  end  constructed 
protectionist,  supranational  barriers  in  some  regions 
of  the  globe.  In  turn,  important  branches  of  industry 
and  services  dedicated  to  saving  and  improving  the 
environment will arise. We will be comforted by that 
for a while. We will be distracted. 
But  of  course,  the  accumulation  will  continue 
unabated, to the delight of the financial system. Wars 
and  fanaticism  will  continue  until  nature  calls  us  to 
account and makes our civilization non-viable. Perhaps 
our  vision  is  too  crude,  not  compassionate  enough, 
and we view man as a unique creature, the only one on 
Earth capable of acting against his own species.
I reiterate that what some call our planet’s ecological 
crisis  is  the  result  of  the  overwhelming  triumph  of 
human  ambition.  This  is  our  triumph  and  our  defeat, 
given our political impotence to fit into the new era that 
we have helped to build without realizing it.
Why  do  I  say  this?  The  numbers  tell  the  story. 
The truth is that the global population quadrupled and 
gross  domestic  product  grew  by  a  factor  of  at  least 
20  over  the  past  century.  World  trade  has  doubled 
approximately  every  six  years  since  1990.  We  could 
continue  to  list  numbers  that  clearly  establish  the 
march  of  globalization.  What  is  happening  to  us? 
We  are  entering  a  new  era,  and  rapidly,  but  with  our 
political bodies, cultural accessories, parties and young 
people  all  reduced  to  old  age  before  the  horrific  and 
accelerating  changes  that  we  cannot  even  grasp.  We 
cannot manage globalization because we do not think 
globally. We do not know if this is a cultural limitation 
or we are reaching biological limits. 
The  portents  of  revolution  are  present  in  our  age 
as in no other in the history of humankind, yet our age 
does  not  have  a  conscious  direction  or  even  a  basic 
instinctive  direction,  and  still  less  organized  political 
direction, because we do not have even the beginnings 
of  a  philosophy  with  which  to  face  the  speed  of 
oncoming changes. 
The greed that has been such a negative force and 
such  a  driver  of  history  has  also  pushed  forward  the 
material,  scientific  and  technical  progress  that  has 
made our era and our time what it is and has enabled a 
phenomenal leap forward on many different fronts. At 
the same time, this very tool — the greed that pushed us 
to domesticate science and transform technology — is 
paradoxically pushing us over the edge into a shadowy 
abyss, towards an unknown fate, an era without history, 
and  we  are  left  without  eyes  to  see  or  the  collective 
intelligence  to  continue  to  colonize  and  transform 
ourselves. 
If  there  is  one  thing  that  defines  this  tiny  little 
human  creature,  it  is  that  it  is  an  anthropocentric 
conqueror. It seems that things come alive and submit 
to men. Glimpses of these things abound everywhere, 
glimmers that should allow us to discern these things, 
or at least make out the direction in which things are 
headed, but it is clearly impossible to make collective, 
global decisions about the big picture. Individual greed 
easily triumphs over our species’ greed. Let us be clear. 
What  is  the  big  picture  of  which  we  speak?  It  is  the 
system  of  global  life  on  Earth,  including  human  life, 
with all the fragile balances that make it impossible for 
us to continue as we are.
On the other hand — and this is less contentious and 
more obvious — in the West in particular, because we 
are indeed from the West, though we are also from the 
South, the republics arose to make the claim that men 
are  equal,  that  no  one  is  better  than  anyone  else,  and 
that Governments should represent the common good, 
justice and equity. Often, these republics become warped 
13-48461
5/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
and fall into the habit of ignoring ordinary people, the 
man on the street, the common people. Republics were 
not  created  to  outgrow  their  constituents,  but  instead 
are historical phenomena designed to function for their 
own  people.  They  must  therefore  answer  to  majority 
and must fight for its interests.
As  for  the  traces  of  feudalism  that  persist  in 
our  societies,  or  the  domineering  classicism,  or  the 
consumer  culture  that  surrounds  us  all,  in  the  course 
of their existence republics often adopt a way of daily 
life that excludes and holds at arm’s length the common 
man. In fact, that common man should be the central 
cause  of  the  republic’s  political  struggle.  Republican 
Governments  should 
their 
respective peoples in the way they live and the way they 
deal with life. 
increasingly 
look 
like 
that  undermine 
The  fact  is  that  we  tend  to  cultivate  feudal 
anachronisms,  spoiled  affectations  and  hierarchical 
distinctions 
the  best  feature  of 
republics — the fact that no one is better than anyone 
else. The interaction of those factors and others keeps 
us  living  in  prehistory,  and  today  it  is  impossible  to 
renounce war when politics fails. Thus, economies are 
strangled and resources wasted. Every minute in the life 
of our planet, we spend $2 million on military budgets 
around  the  world  —  $2  million  a  minute.  Medical 
research  on  all  manner  of  diseases,  which  has  made 
huge  advances  and  is  a  blessing  that  promises  longer 
life, receives barely a fifth of what is budgeted for the 
military. That process, from which we cannot escape, 
perpetuates hatred, fanaticism and distrust, fuels new 
wars and wastes fortunes.
I  know  that  it  is  very  easy  politically  to  criticize 
ourselves  at  the  national  level,  and  I  think  it  naive 
in  this  world  to  propose  that  resources  that  could  be 
saved  and  spent  on  other,  useful  things.  Again,  that 
would be possible if we were capable of making global 
agreements  and  working  on  global  prevention  and 
world  policies  aimed  at  ensuring  peace  and  offering 
the  weakest  among  us  guarantees  that  do  not  exist. 
Enormous  resources  would  have  to  be  cut  to  address 
the  most  shameful  things  on  Earth,  but  one  question 
suffices.  Where  can  humankind  as  it  is  today  go 
without  those  guarantees?  Thus,  each  wields  arms 
commensurate with his size. 
And  that  is  where  we  are  today,  because  we  can 
barely  reason  as  individuals,  let  alone  as  a  species. 
Global  institutions,  especially  today,  languish  in  the 
shadow  of  the  dissenting  great  nations.  Clearly,  such 
nations  wish  to  hold  on  to  power.  They  block  action 
by the United Nations, which was created in the hope 
and  with  a  dream  of  peace  for  humankind.  But  what 
is  even  worse  is  that  they  have  cut  it  off  from  global 
democracy. We are not all equal. We cannot be equal 
in a world where some are strong and others weak. As 
a result, our world democracy is wounded, and we face 
the historical impossibility of reaching a global peace 
agreement.  We  patch  up  diseases  when  an  outbreak 
occurs as one or other of the great Powers wishes, while 
we look on from afar.
It would be difficult to invent a force that is worse 
than the chauvinistic nationalism of the great Powers. 
Nationalism,  a  force  that  liberates  the  weak  through 
the  process  of  decolonization,  has  become  a  tool  of 
oppression  in  the  hands  of  the  strong.  The  past  two 
centuries  are  full  of  examples.  The  United  Nations  is 
languishing  and  becoming  increasingly  bureaucratic 
from  lack  of  power  and  autonomy,  above  all  of 
recognition  of  democracy  for  the  weak  of  the  world, 
who are the majority. 
By way of a very small example, our little country 
is  in  absolute  terms  the  largest  Latin  American 
contributor  of  soldiers  to  peacebuilding  missions, 
and  we  go  wherever  we  are  asked  to  go.  But  we  are 
small and weak, and in the places where resources are 
distributed and decisions made, we cannot go even to 
serve  coffee.  In  our  heart  of  hearts  we  long  to  help 
humankind emerge from prehistory — and people who 
live with war are still living in prehistory, despite the 
many artifacts they can build — but as long as we do 
not emerge from prehistory and retire war as a resort 
when politics fails, that is the long march and challenge 
we have ahead of us. We say that in full awareness; we 
are familiar with the loneliness of war.
Such  dreams,  however,  require  us  to  fight  for  an 
agenda of world agreements that can begin to steer our 
history  and  overcome  life’s  threats,  step  by  step.  Our 
species  should  have  a  Government  for  all  humankind 
that  supersedes  individualism  and  creates  political 
leaders who follow the path of science and not merely the 
immediate interests of those governing and suffocating 
us.  At  the  same  time,  we  must  understand  that  the 
world’s  poor  are  not  from  Africa  or  Latin  America; 
they are all part of humankind, and that means that we 
must help them to develop so they can lead decent lives. 
The necessary resources exist. They can be found in the 
waste of our predatory civilization. 
6/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
A  few  days  ago  a  tribute  was  delivered  in  a  fire 
station in California. An electric bulb had been turned 
on for 100 years. It had been on for 100 years! How many 
millions  of  dollars  have  they  taken  from  our  pockets 
deliberately creating junk so that people will buy and 
buy and buy? But globalization means a brutal cultural 
change  for  our  planet  and  for  our  life.  That  is  what 
history demands from us. The entire material basis has 
changed and it has changed man. In our culture, we act 
as  if  nothing  had  happened.  Instead  of  us  controlling 
globalization, it controls us. 
Almost  20  years  ago,  we  discussed  the  humble 
Tobin tax, which could not be applied at a global level. 
All of the banks with financial power rose up against it. 
Their private property and who knows how many other 
things would be harmed. However, that is the paradox. 
With talent and collective work, with science, step by 
step  humankind  can  make  deserts  green;  humankind 
can  bring  agriculture  to  the  seas;  humankind  can 
develop agriculture that lives with salt water. 
If  the  power  of  humankind  is  focused  on  what  is 
essential, it is infinite. Here we see the greatest sources 
of  energy.  What  do  we  know  about  photosynthesis? 
Almost  nothing.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  energy  in 
the  world,  if  we  work  together  to  use  it  properly.  It 
is  possible  to  eliminate  poverty  from  the  planet.  It  is 
possible to create stability. It will be possible for future 
generations,  if  they  begin  to  reason  as  a  species  and 
not just as individuals, to bring life to the galaxies and 
pursue this dream of conquest that we, human beings, 
have in our genes. 
But if those dreams are to come true, we will have to 
control ourselves or we will die. We will die because we 
are not capable of being at the level of the civilization 
that  we  have  been  developing  with  our  efforts.  That 
is our dilemma. We should not spend our time merely 
correcting the consequences. Let us consider the deep-
rooted  causes,  the  civilization  of  waste,  the  present 
civilization  that  is  stealing  time  from  human  life  and 
wasting it on pointless matters. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Let  us  remember  that  human  life  is  a  miracle. 
Consider  that  human  life  is  a  miracle,  that  we  are 
alive as a result of a miracle, and that nothing is more 
important than life. Our biological duty is, above all, to 
respect life, promote it, take care of it, reproduce it and 
understand that the species is our being.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay for the statement he has just made.
Mr. José Mujica, President of the Eastern Republic 
of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Uganda. 
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, 
President of the Republic of Uganda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Museveni:  In  the  year  2000,  we  met 
here and agreed on the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) for 2015. They are: Goal 1, the eradication of 
extreme poverty and hunger; Goal 2, achieving universal 
primary education; Goal 3, promoting gender equality 
and the empowerment of women; Goal 4, reducing child 
mortality; Goal 5, improving maternal health; Goal 6, 
combatting  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases; 
Goal 7, ensuring environmental sustainability; and Goal 
8, developing a global partnership for development. As 
we can see, they cannot be sustainably achieved unless 
we achieve socioeconomic transformation. That means 
building  a  new  society  comprised  of  the  middle  class 
and the skilled working class out of the pre-capitalist 
societies that characterize underdeveloped countries. 
Our  old  society  of  traditional  Africa  had  and  has 
to  undergo  socioeconomic  metamorphosis,  just  like 
the  insects  do,  taking  on  new  forms  of  life  —  egg, 
caterpillar, pupa, adult butterfly or other insect, and so 
on — of the same organism. That means fewer people in 
agriculture than in industry and services, more people 
in urban centres than in rural areas, no illiteracy, and 
modern agriculture rather than subsistence traditional 
agriculture  or  uneconomic  colonial  cash  crops  that 
bring in little for the affected families. I hope that no 
one had imagined that we could sustainably attain the 
MDGs while maintaining a backward economy. 
13-48461
7/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
We in Uganda discovered the following bottlenecks 
to socioeconomic transformation. 
is 
The 
first 
ideological  disorientation.  The 
second is a weak State — no army and a weak police, 
judiciary  and  civil  service.  The  third  is  inadequate 
infrastructure, including inadequate electricity, lack of 
roads, lack of a railway system, lack of information and 
communications technology infrastructure, and so on. 
All  of  this  means  high  costs  for  doing  business  in  a 
given country. That scares away business, and without 
business there can be no employment, no production of 
goods and services and no expansion of the tax base. It 
is a vicious circle.
The  fourth  bottleneck  relates  to  human  resources 
that  are  undeveloped  on  account  of  lack  of  education 
and poor health. An illiterate and unhealthy population 
cannot be the agent of socioeconomic transformation. 
The fifth is the issue of small internal markets resulting 
from  the  colonial  balkanization  of  Africa.  Those  had 
to  be  worked  on  through  regional  market  integration. 
One cannot sustainably produce if sufficient numbers 
of people do not buy one’s goods.
Sixth,  a  lack  of  industrialization  and  a  failure  to 
modernize services meant that we continued to export 
raw materials at 10 per cent or less of the final value of 
the final product, thereby losing money and jobs to the 
outside world. The lack of modern services meant that 
we could not attract tourists and had to import services 
from  outside  in  the  form  of  professional  and  medical 
services, inter alia, in addition to jobs not being created.
Seventh,  the  failure  to  modernize  agriculture 
inhibits the earning capacity of the affected portions of 
the population and the country, stunts job creation and 
affects food security.
Eighth, 
the  additional  mistake  was  made  of 
interfering  with  the  private  sector,  influenced  by 
an  incorrect  analysis  of  the  national  interest.  Was 
the  private  sector  causing  the  national  economy  to 
haemorrhage  by  repatriating  dividends,  or  was  it 
creating an infusion of fresh money and knowledge and 
expanding  the  size  of  the  economy?  Fortunately,  that 
mistake has been corrected in Uganda and in much of 
Africa.
Those are the bottlenecks that directly affected the 
rate of socioeconomic transformation. I do not wish to 
go into the political bottlenecks here.
In  Uganda,  therefore,  we  were  clear  about  all  of 
those  from  the  very  beginning.  It  was  not  possible  to 
talk  of  the  MDGs  sustainably  without  talking  about 
those strategic bottlenecks. You could not sustainably 
base yourself on donor support to achieve the MDGs.
In spite of the fact that a number of mistakes were 
made by some of our actors, Uganda will have achieved 
the following MDGs by 2015.
First, 
poverty 
extreme 
eradicate 
and 
hunger — already achieved; second, achieve universal 
primary education — already achieved; third, promote 
gender  equality  —  already  achieved;  fourth,  reduce 
child  mortality  —  already  achieved;  fifth,  improve 
maternal  health  —  achieving  this  one  has  been  slow 
to be achieved because of mistakes on our side; sixth, 
combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases — we are 
on track to achieve this, except as concerns new AIDS 
infections,  which  have  increased  slightly;  seventh, 
ensure  environmental  sustainability  by  increasing  the 
electrification of the economy, so as to stop the cutting 
of  forests  for  firewood  and  for  primitive  agriculture 
by  modernizing  agriculture  and  shifting  a  greater 
portion of the population towards industry, away from 
agriculture.
We  have  been  working  on  Goal  8,  developing  a 
global partnership for development, first and foremost 
by  working  for  economic  and  political  integration  in 
Africa and for market access to the rest of the world on 
the basis of mutual advantage. The process of market 
integration  in  Africa  has  already  started  in  the  form 
of the East African Community, the Common Market 
for Eastern and Southern Africa, the Southern African 
Development  Community,  the  Economic  Community 
of West African States and the Economic Community 
of Central African States.
As  part  of  the  global  partnership,  we  should  be 
very  careful  not  to  lose  the  easing  in  global  tensions 
that came with the end of the Cold War. In the Book of 
Matthew, Jesus says : 
“ By their their fruit you will recognize them. 
Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes, or figs 
from  thistles?  Likewise,  every  good  tree  bears 
good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good 
tree  cannot  bear  bad  fruit,  and  a  bad  tree  cannot 
bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good 
fruit  is  cut  down  and  thrown  into  the  fire.  Thus, 
by their fruit you will recognize them.” (The Holy 
Bible, Matthew 7:16-20)
8/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
A  good  system  will  prove  its  superiority  by 
example. The Book of Matthew also states: 
“In  the  same  way,  let  your  light  shine  before 
others,  that  they  may  see  your  good  deeds  and 
glorify your Father in heaven.” (ibid., Matthew 5:16)
We  do  not  have  to  create  new  global  tensions  in 
order to deal with criminals. Where there is a need for 
international  action,  regional  and  global  consensus 
should  be  sought  so  that  we  unite  the  many  to  defeat 
the few and isolate the enemy to the maximum, as the 
late Chairman Mao Zedong used to say. Where there is 
a need to fight for freedom, oppressed people can fight 
for  themselves.  They  do  not  have  to  be  sponsored  by 
external forces. Those who seek external sponsorship 
as their primary aim are suspect, to say the least. 
Still  on  the  issue  of  global  partnership,  I  cannot 
fail  to  stress  our  anger  vis-à-vis  actors  who  are 
beginning to make it a habit to ignore African Union 
positions on African matters. One of our slogans in the 
decolonization struggle was “Africa for the Africans”. 
Some  people  seem  to  think  that  that  was  an  empty 
slogan. They are wrong. Although the patriotic forces 
have been taken by surprise by this renewed arrogance 
by the old mistake-makers, they will react appropriately 
to protect Africa from hegemony. 
The  latest  manifestation  of  arrogance  is  from  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in  relation  to  the 
elected  leaders  of  Kenya.  Many  African  countries 
supported  the  establishment  of  the  Court  because  we 
abhor  impunity.  However,  in  a  shallow,  biased  way, 
the  ICC  has  continued  to  mishandle  complex  African 
issues. That is not acceptable. The ICC should stop. Our 
advice to it is from very capable actors who know what 
they  are  doing  and  who  know  what  they  are  saying. 
Kenya is recovering. Let it recover. We know the origin 
of the mistakes of the past. The ICC way is not the right 
one for handling those mistakes.
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In our struggle for socioeconomic transformation, 
our  biggest  problem  has  been  funding.  The  small 
modern  colonial  economy  of  Uganda  was  destroyed 
by  Idi  Amin.  Initially,  as  we  struggled  for  minimal 
economic  recovery,  we  had  to  depend  on  external 
funding.  Although  useful,  that  funding  was  limited, 
slow  in  coming,  not  always  focused,  and  erratic. 
Although  our  economy  succeeded  in  achieving  an 
average annual growth rate of 6.5 per cent per annum 
over  the  past  20  years,  we  could  have  achieved  much 
higher rates of growth, especially if we had had reliable 
funding for infrastructure, 
Now  that  we  have  a  little  bit  of  our  own  money, 
we are able to implement infrastructure projects much 
faster. Even without oil and gas, we were able to move 
much faster in terms of infrastructure development by 
relying  on  ourselves.  Of  course,  additional  external 
funding, if it is focused, sizeable and on time, can be 
very  useful.  Without  a  doubt,  Uganda  and  much  of 
Africa are moving forward robustly. With the resources 
from  the  oil  and  gas  we  discovered  a  few  years  ago, 
we  will  be  able  to  fund  all  our  infrastructure  needs. 
The  future  is  bright  and  our  forward  movement  is 
irreversible.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Uganda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of 
the Argentine Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will hear an 
address by the President of the Argentine Republic.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Cristina  Fernández, 
President of the Argentine Republic, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly.
President  Fernández  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
particularly  like  to  congratulate  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  his  country  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States  and  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States. It is an honour for all 
Latin Americans that he is presiding over the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
I would like to begin by expressing our solidarity 
with the victims of the attacks in Kenya and Pakistan, 
and generally to all the victims of the terrorist attacks 
occurring in various parts of the world. I say this not 
out of formal sympathy or for reasons of protocol, but 
13-48461
9/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
because our country, Argentina, along with the United 
States  of  America,  is  the  only  one  on  the  American 
continent  to  have  suffered  a  terrorist  attack  —  in 
our  case,  on  two  occasions:  in  1992,  when  the  Israeli 
Embassy  in  the  city  of  Buenos  Aires  was  blown  up, 
and two years later, when the Jewish community centre 
AMIA in Argentina was bombed. Some of the relatives 
of the victims are here with us, as always, and I can see 
them from here. Clearly, we are talking about victims. 
These were not soldiers or fighters. They were people 
who  were  getting  on  a  bus,  perhaps  entering  a  bar  or 
going to work, and who were surprised by an explosion. 
They  had  not  taken  part  in  any  war;  they  were  not 
combatants  or  soldiers;  they  had  not  chosen  to  go 
and fight. So I am thinking of those victims and their 
families, who deserve our solidarity and the strongest 
possible condemnation of all forms of terrorism.
In  the  context  of  this  sixty-eighth  session  of  the 
Assembly,  we  see  the  Syrian  question  as  a  common 
thread.  Almost  in  a  premonition,  only  a  short  while 
ago I was here at the United Nations, presiding over a 
meeting of the Security Council, of which Argentina is 
a non-permanent member for 2013-2014. On 6 August, 
just  about  a  month  and  a  half  ago,  we  proposed  a 
measure  to  reform  the  Security  Council.  We  stated 
that  the  functioning  and  the  rationale  of  the  Council 
actually  reflected  another  era,  that  of  the  Cold  War, 
when fear of nuclear holocaust had led to the creation of 
the Organization, uniting the forces that had defeated 
Nazi Germany, and then produced a bipolar world. That 
fear of nuclear war resulted in a system with veto power 
so that no one would be able to push a button and blow 
up  the  world.  The  fact  is  that  that  instrument,  which 
worked in 1945, has now been shown to be dysfunctional 
and completely obsolete — and not only as regards the 
Syrian question, but also when it comes to dealing with 
issues affecting peace and security around the world.
Incidentally, I would like to express my appreciation 
for the fact that for the first time we have been given 
the opportunity to speak at such a late hour of the day, 
because it has somewhat interrupted the inertia of the 
course of the meeting. There are times when we come 
to these meetings with a format, almost a monologue, 
that makes it difficult to present arguments or counter-
arguments that take into account the statements made 
by  previous  speakers.  I  have  listened  very  carefully 
to  almost  all  of  the  addresses  given  earlier  today. 
Obviously, I paid particular attention to those that touch 
on the global decision-making system, and, of course, 
because I am a staunch supporter of multilateralism, I 
paid a lot of attention to the first address, by Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon.
In  many  of  those  statements  I  heard  mention  of 
21  August.  On  6  August,  we  spoke  of  the  need  for 
Security Council reform and of the fact that the right 
of  veto  is  no  longer  necessary.  There  should  be  a 
system — such as those used by regional organizations 
of the Americas, such as the Union of South American 
Nations, Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States  or  the  Southern  Common  Market  and  its 
associated  States  —  in  which  decisions  are  taken  by 
consensus. Why is that? Governmental administration 
is different, as the power of veto is necessary in order 
to  govern.  When  dealing  with  conflict  resolution 
and  management,  if  one  party  to  the  conflict,  or 
an  interested  party,  has  the  right  of  veto,  that  right 
necessarily  becomes  an  obstacle  to  the  resolution  of 
the conflict. We did not know what would occur 15 or 
16 days later. Many have noted that the crisis in Syria 
erupted on 21 August. 
In  fact,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  understand 
that  the  current  crisis  in  Syria  was  only  recognized 
on  21  August,  when  we  became  aware  of  chemical 
weapons. Syria has been caught up in that conflict for 
over  two  and  a  half  years.  Over  150,000  people  have 
lost their lives and 99 per cent of them died as a result 
of  conventional  weapons  —  not  chemical  weapons.  I 
remember that at the last meeting of the Group of Twenty 
(G-20), during a discussion about Syria, I asked, “What 
is the difference between a death resulting from bullets, 
anti-personnel mines, missiles or hand grenades, and a 
death resulting from chemical weapons?” Each is more 
or  less  equally  shocking.  As  it  is  not  the  first  time, 
why is there talk of chemical weapons as if it were the 
first  time  that  chemical  weapons  or  weapons  of  mass 
destruction have been used? 
I  recall  a  statement  made  by  another  leader 
today  with  reference  to  the  terrible  gas  chambers  of 
the  Nazis,  the  gas  in  the  trenches  and  the  chemical 
weapons  used  in  other  instances.  I  also  remember 
hearing  about  and  reading  about  —  as  I  had  not  yet 
been  born  —  the  nuclear  holocaust  in  Hiroshima  and 
Nagasaki and the consequences of using those weapons 
on many generations of Japanese people. 
I  remember  when  I  was  much  younger  —  the 
President  of  Uruguay  also  recalled  the  time  of  his 
youth, I was less than 20 years of age, and many others 
will  probably  also  remember  —  when  napalm  and 
phosphorous were used during the Viet Nam War. That 
10/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
was  recorded  forever  in  the  Pulitzer  prize-winning 
photographs of naked boys and a naked girl. I remember, 
as if it were today, that naked young girl running down 
a road after having been hit by napalm in a bombing.
I also remember, in all fairness, the suffering of the 
people of the United States when they saw the doors of 
the planes open and they saw the corpses of the soldiers 
who had gone to fight being removed, wrapped in black 
plastic bags. I can imagine the pain of each girlfriend, 
each  sister,  each  wife,  each  daughter  of  the  soldier 
who had died, trying to understand why. Many did not 
understand why the soldiers had had to lose their lives 
many thousands of kilometres away from their country. 
It  is  so  irrational,  so  unjust.  There  are  no  just  wars. 
Only peace is just.
On 6 August, in the discussions on the issue of peace 
and security, it was stated that peace and security are not 
military  concepts;  rather,  they  are  political  concepts. 
Today,  I  was  pleased  to  hear  the  Secretary-General 
mention  that  very  concept,  which  we  had  referred  to 
in  the  Security  Council  —  namely,  that  peace  and 
security are not military but rather political concepts. 
Therefore, we welcome the fact that an agreement has 
been  reached  on  the  question  of  Syria.  My  country 
opposed  direct  intervention  —  bombing.  It  was  quite 
simple. The argument that, in order to avoid deaths, you 
would cause even more deaths could not be sustained 
by  any  reasoning  or  even  common  sense.  We  did  not 
speak out at that time only to speak. Furthermore, we 
were not discussing just any country, but one with great 
respect for the norms of international law.
My country, Argentina, has signed the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), making 
Argentina one of the most advanced countries — if not 
the  most  advanced  country  —  in  developing  nuclear 
power  for  peaceful  and  scientific  purposes.  We  sell 
nuclear  power  generators 
to  Egypt,  Algeria  and 
Australia.  We  also  use  nuclear  energy  for  medical 
purposes. We do not condemn the use of nuclear energy 
for  warfare  while  at  the  same  time  deploying  nuclear 
submarines. That has been our experience, for example, 
in  connection  with  the  sovereignty  dispute  involving 
our  Malvinas  Islands,  since  the  United  Kingdom  has 
militarized the southern Atlantic region and sent nuclear 
submarines. We have no double standards. We are not 
hypocritical. We have not only signed the NPT but are 
also  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  as  was  also  mentioned  by  the 
Secretary-General in his statement.
In  other  words,  when  we  speak  of  condemning 
dictators, we are actually parties to the Rome Statute and 
can be brought before the Court. We are also members 
of  the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights 
in Washington, D.C. It is curious that many who speak 
of  respect  for  human  rights,  the  relevant  institutions, 
international law and the ICC and often refer to human 
rights have not signed the treaties on the subject.
If  one  is  to  speak  of  human  rights,  Argentina 
has  accomplished  a  great  deal.  We  were  a  founding 
Member of the Organization and promoted the creation 
of a human rights secretariat within the United Nations 
and the International Convention for the Protection of 
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. I am joined 
here by the head of the Asociación Madres de Plaza de 
Mayo. She was also with me in Paris to sign the treaty, 
of which we are a founding party.
I  referred  to  human  rights  because  there  was 
something  said  today  about  human  rights  in  another 
speech.  It  has  been  said  here  that  if  this  is  the  world 
in which people want to live, then they should say so 
and be prepared to face the cold logic of mass graves. 
Argentina  too  can  speak  of  mass  graves.  Even  today, 
well  into  the  twenty-first  century,  we  continue  to 
come  upon  mass  graves  that  hold  the  remains  of  the 
thousands  of  prisoners  and  those  who  disappeared 
under the genocidal dictatorship that began 24 March 
1976,  which  was  similar  to  the  one  that  took  power 
on 11 September 1973 in our sister republic of Chile, 
overthrowing  the  democratically  elected  Government 
of Salvador Allende.
How  wonderful  it  would  have  been,  after  all  the 
speeches condemning genocidal dictators, if someone 
back  then  had  come  to  the  aid  of  the  Argentine  and 
Chilean  and  so  many  other  peoples  of  the  American 
continent who, in the midst of the Cold War, were the 
sacrificial  victims  of  murderous  dictators.  But  it  was 
also  said  here  that,  if  those  who  cared  about  human 
rights were moved to act on someone’s behalf, perhaps 
if that concern had at least coincided with the interests 
of some great Power, they would have acted differently. 
We  have  spoken  of  those  things  here,  including  the 
need to put an end to that double standard, and we have 
said that the resolutions and decisions of a multilateral 
organization such as the United Nations must take place 
on a level playing field for the weak and the strong, the 
small and the large. 
We  have  been  waiting  since  1965,  when  the 
plenary  and  many  resolutions  of  the  Assembly  and 
13-48461
11/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
the  Committee  on  Decolonization  required  both 
Argentina  and  the  United  Kingdom  to  sit  down  to 
hold a dialogue — another word that I have repeatedly 
heard  in  every  speech.  There  is  a  dispute  over  the 
matter  of  sovereignty  over  the  Malvinas,  and  yet,the 
United  Kingdom  has  turned  a  cold  shoulder.  And  so 
we continue with double standards, which some people 
do not like to hear mention of. But hypocrisies are like 
witches; evidently, they exist. 
I have also heard — I should add that I have heard 
with pleasure, so not everything has to do with double 
standards — that there has at last been recognition, as 
an  essential  basis  for  beginning  to  untie  the  Gordian 
knot that the matter of the Middle East represents, of 
the  need  to  recognize  the  State  of  Palestine  and  the 
right  of  the  State  of  Israel  to  live  securely  within  its 
borders. Moreover, I think it has quite rightly been said 
that it is impossible to achieve security for the State of 
Israel unless there is also recognition of the existence, 
and support for the viability of the physical existence 
of, the State of Palestine. We can do no less than agree 
on that characterization.
I have also heard the new President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, and I have heard the comments that 
the  great  Powers  have  made  about  that  change  of 
Government.  If  I  understood  correctly,  there  appears 
to be a kind of new expectation of change in the face 
of  the  new  authorities  in  the  Republic  of  Iran,  with 
which, as the Assembly knows, we have a disagreement 
that  stems  from —  a  cause  of  mine —  a  formal  case 
by the Argentine judiciary against five Iranian citizens 
in  connection  with  their  participation  in  the  bombing 
of  the  Asociación  Mutual  Israelita  Argentina.  It  has 
now been 10 years since, for the first time, on 25 May 
2003,  then  President  Néstor  Kirchner  called  in  this 
same Hall for the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate 
in  clarifying  the  facts  of  that  case.  Year  after  year 
until 2007, he continued to do so, and from 2007 until 
today  I  myself  have  also  continued  to  do  so.  A  little 
over  a  year  ago,  we  received  a  reply  from  the  then 
Foreign Minister of Iran offering to initiate talks and 
reach  an  agreement  on  cooperation.  Why?  For  a  very 
simple  reason.  Because  the  case  has  been  stalled  for 
19 years. Nothing has moved. If there are five Iranian 
accused, the only one with whom I can and must speak 
so that the judge can take a deposition from those five 
citizens is obviously the Republic of Iran. That seems 
very obvious, but often in this peculiar world, even in 
my own country, which is also a bit peculiar, obvious 
things have to be explained.
I  have  also  heard  today  about  imperfect  choices. 
I  liked  that  expression,  which  was  used  by  one  of 
the  Presidents.  I  think  that  when  Argentina  spends 
10  years  asking  for  cooperation  and  then  suddenly 
someone  finally  says  “Fine,  we  are  going  to  talk;  we 
are  going  to  cooperate”,  there  was  no  other  possible 
choice except to sit down together. That issue used was 
internally  in  our  country  to  attack  us  politically,  and 
here too in the United States by the vulture funds to pit 
us against the United States Congress and say that we 
were  reaching  an  agreement,  a  treaty,  with  Iran.  But 
on what? Nuclear weapons? No. On a strategic alliance 
to attack the West? No. On an agreement to convert to 
Islam?  No.  The  agreement  was  simply  to  unblock  the 
procedural impasse in order for the Argentine judiciary 
to take depositions from the accused, while at the same 
time  ensuring  due  process  through  a  commission  of 
international jurists who would be neither Iranian nor 
Argentine and whose actions would not be binding. 
The treaty was approved in my country nine months 
ago.  I  could  almost  say  that  the  baby  is  about  to  be 
born, if I were to put it in biological terms or in terms 
of  childbirth.  It  was  approved  by  all  the  appropriate 
organisms, including the Parliament. It was published 
in the official bulletin. The world knows that Argentina 
has duly complied with that treaty. To those who found 
it  so  convenient  for  Iran  —  after  nine  years  with  no 
news  or  notification  or  agreement  from  the  Iranian 
authorities,  I  wonder  if  we  were  not  right  ourselves 
when we affirmed and said that it was a way to unblock 
the issue.
The fact is that there is now a new Government to 
whose speeches I listened attentively, and a President 
who  declared  in  statements  I  read  that  he  in  no  way 
denied the Holocaust. That is very important. At least 
it  is  important  to  me  and  to  many  citizens  around 
the  world.  Even  today,  he  specifically  declared  that 
through  the  recent  election,  by  displacing  a  leader 
whose positions we have all heard, so there is no point 
in  repeating  them,  Iranian  society  had  proved  that  it 
wanted more moderate positions. We have heard, from 
this very rostrum and these very microphones, that there 
is a will to agree, to talk, to be an open and peaceful 
democratic society, and to act in goodwill.
The  President  of  France  referred  to  the  nuclear 
case  as  the  important  matter  pertaining  to  Iran;  I 
would like to speak about the issue of the Asociación 
Mutual  Israelita  Argentina  as  the  other  major  issue. 
They said they would make gestures by opening up to 
12/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
negotiations,  and  that  they  did  not  want  weapons  for 
military  use.  In  other  words,  as  I  understood  it,  they 
were saying that they would adhere to what we support, 
which  is  non-proliferation.  Now  we  wait  to  be  told  if 
the agreement has been approved, or when it will be. 
Moreover, we await the announcement of the date for 
the establishment of the commission, as well as a date 
for the Argentine judge to travel to Tehran — yes, to 
Tehran; we are not afraid and we will go there.
We believe in the goodwill of people, and there is 
no reason for us not to believe that they actually want 
peace.  Everyone  who  has  spoken  here  has  said  they 
wanted  peace  and  that  they  loved  one  another,  so  we 
believe  everyone.  But  we  also  hope  to  see  everyone 
acting  consistent  with  their  words  and  actions.  I 
therefore  wanted  to  put  this  specific  question  on  the 
table. I have no doubt that, if the words we have heard 
here are true, we will see a positive response. I say that 
to avoid any misunderstanding as to our deep conviction 
and  belief  in  the  rules  of  international  law,  and  also 
to  make  it  clear  that  our  patience  does  not  mean  that 
we are naive or even foolish. We think that more than 
enough time has gone by, and we think answers are now 
needed. The victims deserve this. The Islamic Republic 
of Iran deserves that too, if it really wants to show to 
the world that this is a different Government and that 
its actions are also different. I trust that this will be the 
case. I have no reason to think otherwise.
As for other matters that I wish to discuss, let me 
say  that  we  are  “serial  abiders”  when  it  comes  to  the 
norms of international law. We are also “serial victims” 
of  other  unwritten  rules  that  are  nevertheless  very 
important in today’s world of finance and economics. 
They are norms not written by the major international 
financial  centres  or  the  risk-rating  agencies  or  those 
that speculate, like the vulture funds, when it comes to 
dealing  with  countries  that,  like  Argentina,  defaulted 
on their debt, in the case of Argentina in 2001.
There  has  also  been  talk  here  of  poverty  and  the 
need for children to have access to education. I wish to 
read out two paragraphs of the address by the Secretary-
General. The first has to do with weapons, wherein he 
speaks about poverty and points out that 
“at  a  time  of  pressing  human  need,  spending  on 
weapons  remains  absurdly  high.  Let  us  get  our 
priorities  right  and  invest  in  people  instead  of 
wasting  billions  of  dollars  on  deadly  weapons.” 
(A/68/PV.5, p. 3)
For  the  record,  Argentina  does  not  produce  any 
chemical weapons, or even sell conventional weapons. 
It  would  be  interesting  to  find  out —  as  I  mentioned 
at  the  G-20  —  who  supplies  weapons  to  the  rebel 
groups that are fighting the Syrian Government. It goes 
without saying that the Government of Syria possesses 
the  weapons  of  a  State.  We  would  like  to  know  who 
supplies  the  weapons  to  those  who  fight  the  Syrian 
Government. This is not about taking any sides; rather 
it is just about putting forward something that is quite 
logical, for the weapons trade is today a real business.
Did we really have to wait for 1,000 people to die 
as a result of chemical weapons to realize that 150,000 
others  had  died  before  them?  Why  was  an  arms 
embargo not declared two years ago to prevent so many 
deaths? Well, that should be answered by those who sell 
weapons. We do not sell them and therefore cannot give 
an answer to that question — although we suspect what 
it would be.
I would also like to read out another very significant 
passage  in  which  the  Secretary-General  talked  about 
the economic situation. Although the question of Syria 
has  been  the  common  thread  running  through  the 
whole Assembly, it is clear that the economic crisis that 
started here in the United States with the bankruptcy of 
Lehman Brothers in 2008 still, despite all speeches and 
things we have seen and heard, continues to generate 
volatility  and  fragility.  The  latter  is  a  term  that  was 
often invoked, and not just in the G-20.
We see millions of people unemployed around the 
world, a situation that very much reminds us of that in 
Argentina in 2001 when we defaulted on our own debt. 
This is linked to the fact that we are also serial victims 
of  the  unwritten  rules  of  the  lobbyists,  of  risk-rating 
agencies and of those who trade in financial derivatives 
and speculate like vultures hovering over countries in 
default, buying securities at very low prices and then 
attempting  to  make  millions.  That  is  the  Argentine 
case, but it could be the story of any other country, very 
soon in fact. 
Since the Government of former President Néstor 
Kirchner first took office, on 25 May 2003, Argentina 
began  to  explore  how  to  emerge  from  its  debt,  which 
accounted  for  160  per  cent  of  our  country’s  gross 
national  product.  We  had  25  per  cent  unemployment, 
a poverty rate of 54 per cent and more than 30 per cent 
in extreme poverty. Many countries could perhaps see 
themselves mirrored in that state of affairs. 
13-48461
13/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
In 2005 we organized the first restructuring process,
which  was  accepted  by  76  per  cent  of  our  creditors. 
During my own Government in 2010 we reopened the 
debt-restructuring process and managed to secure the 
approval of 93 per cent of our creditors. Consider that, in 
any country that has insolvency laws, when companies 
go bankrupt the law requires the agreement of at least 
66 per cent of the creditors in order for the bankruptcy 
judge  to  make  the  remaining  creditors  accept  the 
terms — at least, that is the case in Argentina. I think 
the  number  is  the  same  in  the  United  States,  that  is, 
66 per cent. In addition, here in the United States even 
municipalities can declare bankruptcy, and a judge may 
decide that, if the sustainability of the municipality is at 
stake, an even lower figure is acceptable. 
The  fact  remains  that  in  2010  Argentina  reached 
agreement with 93 per cent of its creditors. Since 2005, 
Argentina has consistently and in a timely manner paid 
each and every one of its debt maturities, so much so 
that  the  last  payment  was  made  only  a  few  days  ago. 
That  involved  a  bond  subject  to  Argentine  domestic 
law,  payable  in  Buenos  Aires.  We  paid  $2.07  billion, 
and  today  our  debt  to  gross  domestic  product  ratio  is 
a little under 45 per cent, down from 160 per cent, as I 
mentioned before. Much of the debt is actually public-
sector debt. The foreign-currency-denominated debt of 
Argentina is only 8 per cent of gross domestic product, 
due  both  to  national  and  foreign  private  holders.    I 
would  reiterate,  however,  that  we  have  been  in  strict 
compliance. 
In  2008,  seven  years  after  Argentina  defaulted 
on  its  debt,  the  vulture  funds,  as  we  call  them, 
swooped in. The United Nations is caught between the 
vultures of debt and the hawks of war. It is worse than 
Hitchcock’s  The  Birds,  since  Hitchcock,  at  least,  was 
a good director. But what is certain is that bonds were 
purchased for $40 million, and they now wish to collect 
on that while disregarding the creditors’ agreement to 
certain  arrangements  and  extensions.  The  creditors, 
like  any  group  of  creditors,  wanted  to  be  repaid  and 
so approved certain arrangements and extensions. But 
the  vulture  funds  want  to  recover  the  whole  nominal 
value of the bonds, without arrangements, extensions or 
delay. From the $40 million that they initially bought in 
the so-called self-regulated markets, they will recover 
$1.7 billion. So from 2008, we are talking about a yield 
of over 1,300 per cent. 
I  would  like  to  ask  the  Secretary-General  where 
we  can  find  businesspeople  devoted  to  creating  jobs, 
innovating and investing in production if, in this kind 
of casino economy, somebody can buy $40 million in 
defaulted bonds and then secure a court decision that 
enables them to collect $1.3 or $1.7 billion.
This is not only an Argentinian problem; this is a 
problem that involves the whole world. This is why we 
wish to thank the Republic of France for having gone 
to the United States Supreme Court and presented itself 
as amicus curiae. We also thank the former head of the 
International Monetary Fund, Anne Krueger. She is not 
and has never been a very good friend of Argentina’s, 
but she also did that. 
We  also  remember  the  former  United  States 
Secretary of the Treasury, Paul O’Neill, who, when it 
was  decided  to  leave  Argentina  to  its  own  devices  in 
2001,  amidst  a  social  and  institutional  crisis  that  left 
30  people  dead  as  a  result  of  violence  in  the  streets, 
said  that  American  plumbers  should  not  have  to  pay 
for an Argentine fiesta. Today, I say that the millions 
of Argentines who went back to work, the millions of 
Argentines  who  can  once  again  entertain  hopes  and 
dreams, the scientists who returned to the country and 
the children who once again have access to education 
do  not  have  to  pay  for  the  lobbyists’  fiesta.  These 
lobbyists,  by  participating  in  political  campaigns  and 
contributing money to the politicians’ campaigns here, 
have  the  lobbying  power  they  need  to  destabilize  the 
international financial system. Is that not remarkable? 
And  such  a  short  time  has  elapsed  between  Paul 
O’Neill’s assertion and what we are saying today. 
We  are  not  asking  for  anything.  We  just  want  to 
be  allowed  to  pay.  It  is  remarkable.  We  started  by 
defaulting  on  our  debt  and  now  they  will  not  let  us 
pay it back. It seems almost absurd, in a world that is 
grappling with debt restructuring involving millions of 
men and women. Even here in the United States, there 
are men and women who are unemployed and have lost 
their homes, not to speak of the devastation we see in 
Europe. 
Obviously,  Argentina  and  many  of  the  countries 
represented  here  today  do  not  have  the  good  fortune 
of  being  countries  that  issue  reserve  currencies,  but 
we  have  expressed  our  willingness  to  honour  our 
commitments.  I  think  this  should  be  recognized, 
unless the idea is to use a country like Argentina as an 
example, because it was able to climb out of the hole, to 
create jobs and generate growth, and to pay its creditors 
without applying the prescriptions that the International 
Monetary Fund tried to impose upon it. 
14/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
Incidentally, there is also a need for global market 
regulation  and  market 
interventions.  Wonderful 
statements have been made in the Group of 20 regarding 
tax havens, ratings agencies and capital flows, but what 
is certain is that the world needs global laws for global 
governance.  Just  as  we  ask  for  Security  Council  and 
General Assembly resolutions to be respected, we also 
ask  for  rules  and  for  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of 
countries, especially those countries like ours that wish 
to honour their commitments. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  address  the  Assembly  on 
this very special day. Today we see war, human rights 
violations  and  other  violations  intertwined.  Perhaps 
some are of a more subtle nature, such as losing one’s 
job, one’s rights, one’s livelihood or one’s hope. I think, 
at the core, our duty as world leaders is to build a truly 
different history. 
Many of those who have already spoken have made 
somewhat  ambivalent  statements.  Some  have  been 
encouraging, while others have been disillusioned as a 
result of not having been able to do what they wanted, 
almost as if their desire to do something had just been 
a whim, and when they were not allowed to, they grew 
frustrated.  I  believe  that  the  one  thing  we  cannot  do 
when  we  have  the  responsibility  of  governing  and 
when we might be able to govern a country with a lot 
of  power  is  to  lose  our  temper  or,  even  worse,  make 
mistakes. Making mistakes is the one thing we should 
not do, because mistakes are not paid for by the leaders 
who make decisions or imperfect choices. Mistakes are 
paid for in human lives, not only if we are talking about 
war, but also if we are talking about the economy. In 
that case, they are paid for in terms of unemployment, 
lack  of  access  to  health  care,  education,  housing  and 
security. 
There is cheap labour available for drug trafficking, 
which we talk so much about fighting. One of the keys 
to  fighting  drug  trafficking  is  to  put  an  end  to  cheap 
labour in emerging and underdeveloped countries. We 
must  also  put  an  end  to  money-laundering  for  drug 
trafficking  in  central  countries,  because  the  money 
is not laundered in the countries that produce the raw 
materials. Money-laundering takes place in the central 
countries.  It  is  right  to  say  this,  because  we  hear  so 
much talk about drug trafficking and other things.
I would conclude with a phrase by the Secretary-
General that I really liked. I thought his invitation was 
most  appropriate.  It  was  specifically  an  invitation  to 
turn hope into action through hard work, commitment, 
dignity  and  integrity.  He  ended  with  the  words  “with 
passion”. I am a person with a lot of passion. Some say 
that I am sometimes a bit too passionate and a bit too 
forceful in my statements. “With passion”, he said, but 
above all with compassion. He said that we can build 
a future that the people want and the world needs with 
passion and compassion. 
It is not the first time I have heard this word. I must 
confess that I heard it many years ago, and very often, 
in my own country. Perhaps I did not understand it at 
the time, this passion. It was used then, and is still used 
today, by a cardinal from Argentina who is today Pope 
and  whom  I  would  also  like,  as  a  Christian,  to  thank 
for the key role he played in dealing with the question 
of  Syria.  Compassion  and  passion  —  that  means  the 
passionate embrace of hope, of the future, of the things 
that are yet to come, and compassion for those who are 
less privileged, for the most vulnerable, for those who 
are waiting for so many things, who have done nothing 
to  deserve  extreme  poverty  and  be  Godforsaken,  and 
compassion for all those who are victims — of war, of 
unemployment,  of  extreme  poverty  and  misery  —  in 
other words, of our own failures as world leaders.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Argentine 
Republic for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Joyce Hilda Mtila Banda, 
President of the Republic of Malawi 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Malawi.
Mrs.  Joyce  Hilda  Mtila  Banda,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Joyce  Hilda  Mtila  Banda, 
President of the Republic of Malawi, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Banda:  Allow  me 
to  congratulate 
President  Ashe  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  Let  me 
assure  him  of  my  full  support  and  cooperation  and 
13-48461
15/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
that of my Government during his tenure of office. His 
credentials and experience as a career diplomat here at 
the United Nations assure us of a successful session. 
It  is  indeed  an  honour  for  me  to  have  the 
opportunity to address the Assembly once again. In my 
maiden address last year, I spoke of the challenges that 
Malawi faced at the time that I assumed the office of 
the President of the Republic of Malawi. I outlined my 
Government’s commitment to addressing the political 
and economic governance problems that I inherited. I 
sought to achieve macroeconomic stability and restore 
the rule of law and the observance of human rights.
The reforms my Government has undertaken have 
been  painful  but  necessary.  I  am  therefore  pleased  to 
report to the Assembly that Malawi is registering a strong 
economic recovery. For instance, foreign exchange and 
fuel are available, the currency has stabilized, inflation 
is declining, and industrial production is up from 30 per 
cent in 2012 to 75 per cent in 2013. Economic growth is 
forecast at 5 per cent this year, up from 1.8 per cent last 
year. Furthermore, Malawians are once again enjoying 
their freedoms and civil liberties, as enshrined in the 
Constitution.
I am pleased to say that Malawi, the “warm heart 
of  Africa”,  is  warm  again,  and  my  Government  is 
committed  to  staying  the  course  with  these  reforms. 
In  moving  forward,  my  agenda  is  to  build  on  the 
foundations we have laid in order to realize sustainable 
and inclusive growth.
Today  we  are  gathered  here  to  reflect  on  the 
progress made on the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  and  to  debate  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. Before I provide my reflections, I would like 
to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  efforts  to 
ensure  an  inclusive  global  debate  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  As  I  understand  it,  more  than 
750,000  people  from  194  countries  provided  their 
views, indicating their readiness for bold change. I am 
pleased that Malawi was one of the countries selected 
for the national consultations.
I believe that in Malawi and beyond, the MDGs have 
played  an  important  role  in  concentrating  our  efforts 
around  the  common  purpose  of  eradicating  poverty. 
They have raised public awareness about unacceptable 
levels of poverty and helped to mobilize action towards 
a fairer world.
At  the  same  time,  the  MDGs  have  provided  a 
common  framework  for  monitoring  progress  and 
highlighting areas of achievement as well as challenges. 
Yes,  they  have  transformed  the  way  in  which  both 
developing 
approach 
development cooperation.
developed 
and 
countries 
sustainability, 
Malawi  is  on  track  to  achieve  four  of  the  eight 
MDGs:  reducing  child  mortality,  combating  HIV 
and  AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases,  ensuring 
environmental 
a 
global  partnership  for  development.  However,  like 
other  countries,  we  are  unlikely  to  meet  the  Goals  of 
eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  achieving 
universal access to education, ensuring gender equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women,  and  improving 
maternal health.
and  developing 
As  the  deadline  for  the  MDGs  draws  closer, 
Malawi  is  stepping  up  its  efforts  to  accelerate  their 
attainment. We have identified best practices as well as 
bottlenecks in the context of our progress. In particular, 
we have understood that gender inequality and lack of 
empowerment  of  women  are  the  common  constraints 
limiting our progress towards the MDGs. In response, 
my Government has developed a new MDG acceleration 
framework that places significance on removing these 
barriers once and for all.
In  building  the  foundations  for  the  post-2015 
architecture,  I  want  to  reflect  on  the  lessons  from 
Malawi’s  experience  in  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs.
First, I believe that the strength of the MDGs lies 
in  the  fact  that  they  are  focused  and  targeted.  That 
has helped us to narrow our focus and concentrate our 
efforts on the most critical issues while allowing local 
ownership.  In  the  case  of  Malawi,  the  MDGs  were 
localized through the Malawi Growth and Development 
Strategy.
Secondly, the past 13 years have taught us about the 
importance of the linkages between these Goals. A poor 
family is not just economically deprived. It is also likely 
to face a host of other challenges such as environmental 
vulnerability,  abuses  of  human  rights  and  lack  of  or 
limited access to essential services. Lifting people out 
of poverty therefore requires a holistic approach.
Thirdly, strong political will and the transformation 
of partnerships have accelerated the attainment of most 
of the MDG targets. Finally, I wish to make a cautionary 
note that we need to be aware of the fact that different 
continents  were  at  different  stages  of  development 
when we established the MDGs. That created pressure, 
16/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
sometimes leading to unintended consequences. In the 
case  of  Malawi  and  other  countries,  in  our  efforts  to 
achieve  universal  access  to  education,  the  quality  of 
education  was  compromised,  yet  access  and  quality 
should not be separated.
We  all  recognize  that  the  task  of  developing  and 
achieving  consensus  on  the  theme  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage” may not be an 
easy  one.  However,  we  know  a  lot  more  today  about 
what  works  and  what  does  not  work  than  we  did  13 
years  ago.  We  know  that  in  order  to  achieve  real  and 
lasting change, we must be committed. We know that 
in order to inspire and motivate action, we must be bold 
and ambitious. We know that in order to maximize our 
resources and talents, we need smart partnerships.
The  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on 
the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda 
provides  a  strong  foundation  for  a  new  framework. 
I  applaud  in  particular  the  overall  vision  of  ending 
extreme  poverty  by  2030.  I  also  commend  the  focus 
on, among other things, empowering girls and women, 
creating  jobs,  sustainable  livelihoods  and  equitable 
growth  and  ensuring  good  governance  and  effective 
institutions. I am aware that many people have argued 
that the best strategy to achieve the MDGs is to realize 
growth  in  the  gross  domestic  product.  However,  I 
am  of  the  view  that  that  idea  is  premised  on  a  top-
down-approach.  In  my  opinion,  it  is  income  for  poor 
households that must come first. The issues that affect 
population  growth  —  malnutrition,  girls’  access  to 
education, maternal health — are all rooted in poverty 
and, particularly, in a lack of income at the household 
level. If we have to overcome those challenges, we need 
to promote policies and programmes that bring decent 
incomes into households.
in  order 
In  that  regard,  my  Government  has  sought  new 
partnerships with the private sector, local communities 
and  development  partners 
to  deliver 
development in more innovative ways. My Government 
is  focused  on  transforming  rural  economies  and 
breaking  the  vicious  cycle  of  underdevelopment  and 
poverty.  We  have  decided  to  invest  in  improving  the 
livelihoods  of  poor  people  in  rural  and  urban  areas. 
That transformation initiative is aimed at modernizing 
our rural communities by bringing a standard package 
of interventions in health, education, water, sanitation 
and housing.
The  Government  has  also  rolled  out  the  Malawi 
Rural  Electrification  Programme,  which  aims  at 
spurring  industry,  trade  and  agricultural  productivity 
through the provision of electricity. The Government is 
also implementing a community saving and investment 
programme to promote a culture of saving and building 
assets  to  enhance  income  and  wealth  creation.  I  see 
that  leading  to  the  majority  of  the  poor  being  active 
participants in our economy.
If  we  cannot  uplift  the  people  that  live  in  rural 
areas, as is the case in many developing countries, so 
that  they  can  earn  a  decent  income  in  the  household, 
the  vicious  cycle  of  population  growth,  malnutrition, 
maternal risks and poverty will remain. If the post-2015 
development agenda is to realize its dream, we need to 
go to the grass roots, where the people are.
For  that  reason,  I  welcome  the  idea  that  under 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  we  should  track 
progress against our goals by looking at them across all 
levels of income. That will drive equal opportunities for 
people across all income groups and help us realize our 
dreams of shared prosperity. That is key to restoring the 
dignity of all our people.
Finally, let me emphasize the need to attain global 
peace  and  security.  We  are  all  aware  that  conflict, 
instability  and  civil  unrest  disrupt  our  development 
efforts.  As  we  look  forward  to  the  post-2015  agenda, 
we should recommit to global peace and security. As a 
mother and grandmother, I felt compelled to make this 
appeal.
Malawi will continue to engage fully in the post-
2015 development agenda. I am hopeful that the voice 
of the poor, of women, of people with disabilities and 
of the marginalized will be included in the agenda. I am 
optimistic about a world of shared prosperity. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Joyce  Hilda  Mtila  Banda,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zambia.
13-48461
17/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata, 
President of the Republic of Zambia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Sata: At the outset, I wish to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  John.  Ashe  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session. I am confident that his wisdom and skill will be 
brought to bear as he steers the Assembly through a year 
of progressive dialogue and challenging negotiations. 
The  theme  of  this  year’s  session,  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”, is timely, as it 
presents an opportunity for us to discuss the future of 
global  development.  To  that  end,  I  wish  to  assure  the 
President of our delegation’s support as he discharges 
the function of President at this session. 
The African continent has this year also reached a 
significant milestone. In May, together with the rest of 
the continent, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of 
the founding of the Organization of African Unity, the 
forerunner  to  the  African  Union.  The  African  Union 
is  a  symbol  of  the  collective  hopes  and  aspirations 
of  our  resilient  continent.  As  expected,  that  occasion 
formed  the  basis  for  mutual  reflection  on  the  future 
direction of a young and versatile Africa. Furthermore, 
next year, our country will commemorate 50 years of 
its  independence.  We  approach  that  milestone  proud 
that  Zambia  continues  to  enjoy  political  stability  and 
has  embraced  democratic  principles  that  have  formed 
the  basis  for  social  and  economic  transformation  for 
improving the lives of the Zambian people.
Our  country  is  also  honoured  to  have  played  a 
significant  role  in  peacebuilding  initiatives  within 
the subregion and the continent at large and continues 
to  participate  in  them.  Zambia  will  therefore  remain 
committed  to  the  ideals  for  which  she  has  stood  and 
is  prepared  to  contribute  to  global  efforts  aimed  at 
uplifting humanity.
To  address  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples,  in 
particular  those  of  the  most  vulnerable  nations,  we 
as  a  global  community  meeting  in  this  Assembly 
set  ourselves  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  —  eight  clear  targets  that  resonate  with  our 
populations’  aspirations.  In  less  than  two  years,  we 
will have reached the deadline for the attainment of the 
MDGs, and Governments will have an opportunity to 
take stock of the achievements made in efforts to attain 
the development targets set at the turn of the century.
We are all champions of the MDGs. We have run 
the  race,  and  we  continue  to  run  the  race,  albeit  at 
different paces and on different terrains. What remains 
critical, therefore, is what we do between now and the 
deadline, as well as how we will move beyond 2015.
Amid  much  anxiety,  the  2013  progress  report  for 
my  country  was  released  in  May.  On  a  positive  note, 
the  report  indicated  the  tremendous  progress  made 
by Zambia on MDGs 4 and 5, regarding reducing the 
under-five mortality rate by two thirds and the maternal 
mortality ratio by three quarters by 2015. I emphasize 
here  that  maternal  mortality  is  rooted  in  gender 
inequality, which manifests itself as poor education for 
girls, early marriage, adolescent pregnancies and lack 
of  access  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health  care.  The 
results  therefore  tell  us  that  with  more  effort,  gender 
inequality can be redressed.
Zambia’s  MDG  report  further  indicates  that  we 
have made great strides in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 
The challenges are still immense, and we have to ensure 
that those living with HIV and AIDS are receiving the 
best care and access to social protection services. All 
efforts must be made to reach zero infection and zero 
deaths  by  building  on  what  has  been  achieved  so  far. 
International support is equally critical for a sustained 
and enhanced response.
stability 
and 
has 
The  Zambian  economy 
is  presently  enjoying 
macroeconomic 
experienced 
appreciable  economic  growth  over  the  recent  past. 
However,  our  Government  still  has  the  huge  task  of 
ensuring that the basic needs of Zambians are met, as 
poverty levels and unemployment remain a challenge. It 
is not surprising, therefore, that we have made marginal 
progress in reducing the prevalence of hunger. In order 
to accelerate Zambia’s efforts to achieve MDG 1, our 
Government  has  taken  an  unprecedented  and  painful 
step  in  curtailing  subsidies  on  fuel  and  maize.  That 
has  enabled  us  to  release  much-needed  resources  for 
programmes  that  are  deliberately  targeted  at  poverty 
alleviation. We have also transformed and repositioned 
social protection services to optimize efficiency.
The  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World 
Bank  estimate  that  economic  growth  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa  can  be  expected  to  be  higher  than  the  global 
18/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
average  —  around  5.5  per  cent  in  2013  and  6.1  per 
cent  next  year.  However,  in  the  absence  of  inclusive 
social  development  and  without  food  security,  that 
growth  risks  being  undermined  by  social  exclusion, 
particularly  for  the  youth.  For  instance,  while  our 
Government  recorded  a  growth  in  gross  domestic 
product of 7.3 per cent in 2012, we recognize the fact 
that  it  is  equally  important  to  ensure  that  we  put  in 
place specific measures that will promote equality and 
social justice in the labour market. It is for this reason 
that  we  are  strongly  advocating  for  investment  that 
creates real and sustainable employment prospects for 
our people, while at the same time making our economy 
more labour-absorbent.
In turning to the post-2015 agenda, our Government 
believes that the importance of the intergovernmental 
processes on sustainable development goals is critical 
and  cannot  be  overemphasized.  I  wish  to  reiterate 
the  need  to  have  a  single  set  of  universally  agreed 
sustainable  development  goals  reflecting  sustainable 
development priorities that are actionable and concise 
and  whose  implementation  will  resonate  with  the 
different development and economic levels of Member 
States. Furthermore, the goals will need to be prudently 
balanced  and  to  effectively  integrate  the  economic, 
social  and  environmental  aspects  of  sustainable 
development. To that end, it is necessary to build global 
partnerships  that  are  supported  by  commitments  to 
regional and international cooperation, anchored with 
mutual  accountability,  enhanced  local  private  sectors 
and public-private partnerships.
Our Government believes that addressing issues of 
poverty is important for the achievement of sustainable 
and  inclusive  development  in  the  future  we  want  for 
Zambia. Our country attaches importance to improving 
the welfare of our people, especially women, children 
and  young  people,  through  wealth  and  employment 
creation,  the  provision  of  quality  education  and  of 
quality health care, and industrialization, among other 
things.
In particular, our Government wishes to emphasize 
the  need  to  mainstream  children’s  issues,  including 
access  to  quality  education  and  quality  health  care 
services,  provided  at  the  right  time.  Social  protection 
and upholding the rights of all children is critical and 
should transcend the global desire for a better future. It 
is therefore imperative that the post-2015 agenda take 
into account the momentum that has been attained in the 
realization of the MDGs in order to ensure continuity 
and sustainability.
My address to the Assembly would be incomplete 
if I did not underscore Zambia’s, and indeed Africa’s, 
desire to realize a more democratic and representative 
Security Council. As a continent, our voice could not 
be clearer. We continue to call for greater progress in 
those negotiations, whose conclusion is long overdue. I 
wish to reiterate our position, as defined in the Ezulwini 
Consensus. The United Nations boasts of an all-inclusive 
multilateral process, but that is obviously lacking when 
it comes to the Security Council. The effectiveness of 
that  organ  should  be  enhanced  by  adapting  it  to  the 
prevailing  global  realities  of  international  peace  and 
security  and  the  legitimacy  realized  through  an  all-
inclusive process.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  express  Zambia’s 
gratitude for the support received in the recent hosting 
of two important United Nations conferences, namely, 
the  twentieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
World Tourism Organization and the fourth Meeting of 
States Parties to the Convention on Cluster Munitions. 
I  therefore  take  this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  my 
Government and the Zambian people, to thank all those 
who  participated  and  contributed  to  the  success  of 
those meetings. We look forward to the opportunity to 
host again in the near future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zambia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Fredrik Reinfeldt, Prime 
Minister of Sweden
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Sweden.
Mr. Fredrik Reinfeldt, Prime Minister of Sweden, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fredrik  Reinfeldt, 
13-48461
19/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
Prime Minister of Sweden, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
the United Nations in the world — that is something we 
are very proud of.
Mr.  Reinfeldt  (Sweden):  The  world  is  constantly 
changing  and  the  pace  of  change  is  increasing  every 
year. The world is a very different place today compared 
to  10  years  ago  when  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  were  set.  But  it  is  important  to  understand  the 
nature of the changes and to draw the right conclusions, 
because only then will we be able to have an influence 
and shape our own future.
We  are  seeing  the  fastest  reduction  in  poverty  in 
human history. Child death rates have fallen, meaning 
that 14,000 fewer children are dying every day. Deaths 
from  malaria  and  tuberculosis  are  decreasing.  New 
HIV infections are declining. People are living longer. 
One hundred years ago, the average life expectancy in 
Sweden was less than 60 years. Today, many children 
born  in  my  country  will  live  to  celebrate  their  100th 
birthday. Those are truly amazing developments.
The  world  economy 
is  growing.  This  year, 
developing and emerging countries’ share of the world 
economy will surpass the share of developed countries. 
In 10 years’ time, they will dominate the growing world 
economy.
We see the same pattern in expanding global trade 
flows.  The  share  of  developing  countries’  exports 
has  grown  substantially  and  now  accounts  for  almost 
half of all exports in the world. That creates jobs and 
growth  for  everyone  and  increases  global  equality. 
Technological change is also rapid. Seeking information 
from the other side of the globe is now part of everyday 
life for many people, not only for the privileged few. As 
an example, the number of mobile phone users has risen 
from fewers than 1 billion to more than 6 billion. But 
challenges are still abundant, and it is crucial that we 
intensify our efforts to achieve the existing Millennium 
Development Goals.
Sweden continues to contribute 1 per cent of its gross 
national  income  to  official  development  assistance. 
Sweden is a firm believer in multilateral organizations, 
in international cooperation and in the United Nations. 
The United Nations plays a key role in coordinating our 
efforts towards the Millennium Development Goals. We 
believe that together we can become hopeful instead of 
helpless. Therefore, Sweden contributes approximately 
$1.2 billion yearly to the United Nations system. That 
makes us the second biggest contributor per capita to 
In addition to the existing Millennium Development 
Goals,  we  must  also  work  to  establish  a  strong  post-
2015  development  agenda,  with  the  objective  of 
eradicating  extreme  poverty,  raising  standards  of 
living  for  everyone  and  offering  equal  opportunities 
to  everyone.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
Assembly’s attention to the three areas that I believe are 
central  to  human  and  economic  development:  gender 
equality,  democracy  and  free  trade.  Those  areas  have 
the capacity to influence developments in many other 
areas at the same time. 
When  I  addressed  the  General  Assembly  two 
years  ago  (see  A/66/PV.19),  I  spoke  about  the  most 
important  human  rights  failure  of  all  —  the  one  that 
affects  the  largest  number  of  human  beings,  namely 
gender inequality. I want to raise that issue once again, 
because that challenge is as present and as urgent today 
as before.
Gender  equality  is  first  and  foremost  a  question 
of  ensuring  the  same  human,  economic  and  social 
rights for half of the world’s population, something that 
should be self-evident. Every year, 1 billion women are 
still subject to sexual or physical violence. Women are 
still refused equal access to health services, including 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights.  Every  day 
800  women  still  die  from  preventable  complications 
related to pregnancy and childbirth. Legal restrictions 
still  exist  preventing  women  from  owning,  inheriting 
and acquiring property in many countries. Many girls 
and  women  are  still  refused  access  to  schools  and 
education. For many women the idea that a Government 
would  have  more  female  than  male  ministers,  like  in 
Sweden, seems utopian. Many of those women are not 
even allowed to vote.
Against  that  background,  Sweden  was  one  of  the 
countries that gave strong support to creating the entity 
UN-Women  and  is  today  one  of  its  biggest  donors.  It 
is our firm belief that by ensuring gender equality one 
also  improves  a  country’s  productivity  and  economy 
and the rule of law. Educating girls and women leads 
directly to an increase in a country’s economic output. 
Educated mothers place higher value on schooling for 
their children. Closing the gap between male and female 
employment rates increases a country’s gross domestic 
product substantially. Increased participation by women 
in politics and business leads to clear improvements for 
20/22 
13-48461
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.7
the  public  good  and  to  less  corruption.  The  inclusion 
of women in peace processes makes peace easier and 
more stable. Let me be very clear: it is simply neither 
acceptable  nor  very  smart  to  discriminate  against 
women and girls.
To  achieve  sustainable  development,  we  need 
a  democratic  governance 
that  encompasses  all 
individuals.  We  need  a  system  that  covers  not  only 
the State, but also the private sector and civil society 
organizations.  We  need  a  governing  system  that  is 
accountable and transparent with regard to its actions. 
Nevertheless, nearly one third of the world’s population 
lives  under  authoritarian  rule,  a  serious  barrier  to 
development.  With  the  growing  economic  power  in 
many developing countries comes an opportunity and 
a  responsibility  to  use  that  power  wisely  and  for  the 
common good of everyone. 
Every  person’s  human  rights  must  be  respected, 
regardless of origin, religion, handicap, gender, sexual 
preference  or  transsexual  identity.  Only  then  will 
society reap the benefits of all human resources. Only 
when people can freely express their political opinions 
and  freely  participate  in  a  thriving  civil  society  can 
they truly participate in the lives of their communities. 
That  also  applies  to  freedom  on  the  Internet.  Only 
with  functioning  courts  do  people  feel  safe  to  make 
investments  and  develop  their  businesses.  Only  with 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law  can  we  tackle  organized 
crime and corruption. Only with democratic principles 
can we ensure freedom from conflict and violence.
Violence  and  oppression  in  all  their  forms  are 
among  the  main  threats  to  the  development  of  people 
and the development of societies. We know that it takes, 
on average, seven years to fight a civil war, and 17 years 
to recover from a war. That is why conflict is sometimes 
called  “development  in  reverse”.  As  we  speak,  there 
are several major ongoing conflicts, resulting in death 
and suffering, hunger and disease, and rape and sexual 
violence.  Those  conflicts  are  depriving  men,  women 
and  children  of  their  right  to  a  prosperous  life  and  a 
future  of  hope.  A  focus  on  fragile  States  will  remain 
necessary.
The  civil  war  raging  in  Syria  for  more  than  two 
years  must  come  to  an  end.  Those  responsible  for 
systematic violations of human rights, including those 
responsible  for  the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  must 
be  held  accountable.  The  conflict  must,  however,  be 
handled within the United Nations system. There is an 
urgent need for a political solution to the conflict and a 
transition to a free and democratic Syria.
It  is  time  for  a  new  era  in  which  countries  in 
conflict can join the rest of the world in achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  For  that,  we  need  a 
strong United Nations and a well-functioning Security 
Council.
I want to thank all peacekeepers and peacebuilders 
of  the  United  Nations  for  their  efforts  and  sacrifices. 
Sweden  will  further  contribute  to  and  participate 
in  those  efforts.  We  also  give  strong  support  to  the 
areas  of  democracy,  human  rights  and  freedom  from 
violence. Sweden is one of biggest donors to the Office 
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. We are 
trying  to  help  out  though  humanitarian  assistance  for 
the crisis in Syria and by receiving refugees. This year 
alone we have welcomed 16,000 Syrians to Sweden.
Let me mention a third area that we need to focus on 
in the post-2015 development agenda, namely, trade and 
competition. Protectionism is very expensive. It raises 
prices and lowers standards of living. Let me illustrate 
this  by  a  striking  example.  According  to  the  World 
Trade  Organization,  consumers  and  Governments  in 
rich  countries  pay  $350  billion  per  year  supporting 
agriculture. That is enough to fly their 41 million dairy 
cows first class around the world.
Allow me to mention some other, maybe more down-
to-earth, examples. When competition was introduced 
for  mobile  phone  companies  in  some  countries,  the 
cost of calls fell by 30 to 50 per cent. Studies show that 
lowering service barriers by one third under the Doha 
Development Agenda would raise developing countries’ 
incomes  by  approximately  $60  billion.  Unfortunately, 
progress  in  the  Doha  Development  Round  has  been 
slow.  But  the  good  news  is  that  many  countries  are 
doing what they can to liberalize trade through regional 
agreements  instead,  because  they  know  that  that  will 
benefit their economies.
The 
two 
free 
trade  agreements  now  being 
negotiated  —  between  the  United  States  and  the 
European Union and between the United States and a 
number of countries in Asia and Latin America — will 
cover two-thirds of world trade. That will create jobs 
and  growth.  Sweden  is  one  of  the  countries  within 
the  European  Union  working  the  hardest  to  get  the 
transatlantic  deal  in  place.  Freer  trade  and  openness 
also mean that new impulses and trends affect a country 
faster.  That  puts  pressure  on  reform  in  countries  and 
13-48461
21/22
A/68/PV.7 
24/09/2013
companies  to  meet  global  competition.  Sweden  is  an 
example of that.
Trade  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to  double  our 
economic output. Our companies have learned that they 
must  consistently  take  on  new  trends  and  technology 
in order to stay competitive. If they did not, our gross 
domestic  product  and  standard  of  living  would  fall 
significantly.  Let  us  also  remember  how  important 
trade  is  for  peaceful  relations.  To  put  it  very  simply, 
no sales person wants to start a war against a country 
where he has customers. That would be a bad business 
strategy, so trade promotes peace.
Climate  change  continues,  leading  to  extreme 
weather  conditions  in  many  parts  of  the  world  and 
the  loss  of  lives  and  very  high  costs  for  society.  The 
European Union’s and the United States’ emissions are 
falling,  but  overall  global  emissions  are  increasing. 
That  is  why  all  countries  need  to  contribute  to  the 
international efforts in the fight against climate change. 
The European Union and the United States cannot solve 
the  problem  of  climate  change  on  their  own,  when 
they  only  account  for  around  25  per  cent  of  today’s 
emissions.
The  international  structures  we  have  to  deal 
with  climate  change  commitments  are  unfortunately 
obsolete. We need a new agreement that ensures that all 
major  emitters  make  commitments  that  are  sufficient 
so that we can reach the two-degree target.
It  is  our  duty  to  strive  for  a  society  and  a  world 
that  gives  everybody  the  possibility  to  create  his  or 
her own future. That is what every woman, every man, 
every  girl  and  every  boy  deserves.  Let  me  underline 
that it is in the very interests of every country, because 
people are the real wealth of a nation. The Millennium 
Development  Goals  have  been  very  successful  in 
coordinating and focusing our efforts on the areas where 
progress has been most urgent. Now we need to prepare 
for tomorrow. In doing that, Sweden is convinced, the 
United Nations will play a very important role. We will 
continue our strong support to the Organization.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Sweden 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Fredrik Reinfeldt, Prime Minister of Sweden, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 9.25 p.m.
22/22 
13-48461
