United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
35th plenary meeting
Monday, 21 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.35
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 120
Follow-up to the commemoration of the  
two-hundredth anniversary of the abolition  
of the transatlantic slave trade
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/68/135  
and A/68/291)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.7)
The President: Many will recall that paragraph 101 
of  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
of  2001  invited  the  international  community  and  its 
member States to honour the victims of slavery and the 
slave  trade  in  this  follow-up  exercise.  All  of  us  will, 
no doubt, recall that in December 2011, the Assembly 
endorsed  the  initiative  of  Member  States  to  erect,  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters,  a  permanent  memorial 
in honour of the tragedy of slavery and the slave trade.
Approximately  one  month  ago,  I  had  the  distinct 
honour to speak at the unveiling of the winning design 
for the permanent memorial honouring those victims. 
Three hundred and ten artists from 83 countries drew 
upon  their  creative  faculties  to  reinforce,  through  the 
medium of the visual arts, sentiments to which Member 
States had already given eloquent voice in the Durban 
Declaration  and  subsequently.  The  design  that  the 
judges considered to be most expressive of the desired 
message was appropriately entitled Ark of Return and its 
creative artist, Mr. Rodney Leon, is a native of Haiti, a 
country with an illustrious history and its own struggle 
to  end  slavery  —  a  struggle  that  has  taken  a  heavy 
toll  on  its  people.  Mr.  Leon  described  his  winning 
submission as depicting
education, 
reflection 
“a sacred space that is designed to psychologically 
and spiritually transport visitors to a place where 
acknowledgement, 
and 
healing can take place.”
Just as other monuments erected on the grounds of 
the  United  Nations  serve  to  remind  the  international 
community 
the  values  of  peace  and 
non-violence,  it  is  my  sincere  hope  and  wish  that 
the  soon-to  be-erected  Ark  of  Return  will  serve  a 
corresponding  purpose  as  a  tribute  to  the  collective 
aspirations of this Organization, namely: peace, human 
rights, social justice and the dignity of human beings.
to  honour 
The year 2013 marks the 206th anniversary of the 
abolition of the transatlantic slave trade. The General 
Assembly’s  engagement  with  the  question  of  slavery 
and  the  slave  trade  continues  with  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.7, before us today, as we commit once again to 
raising public awareness about the legacy of that dark 
period  in  our  past.  Since  the  United  Nations  began 
considering this item some years ago, there have been 
numerous  initiatives  at  the  national  and  international 
levels, dedicated to the noble goals of remembering and 
honouring all the victims of that monstrously inhumane 
practice. Through their various efforts, Member States, 
United  Nations  agencies  and  civil-society  partners 
have celebrated the indomitable spirit of the victims of 
a tragedy that continues to be inflicted upon numerous 
persons  today,  albeit  in  more  subtle  forms,  including 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-52279 (E)
*1352279*
A/68/PV.35 
21/10/2013
social and economic inequality, hatred, bigotry, racism 
and prejudice.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/68/291) 
highlights  the  educational,  outreach  and  awareness-
raising  activities  undertaken  following  resolution 
67/108.  Those  campaigns  provide  an  opportunity  not 
only to reflect upon the history and legacy of slavery 
but  also  to  address  questions  such  as  the  dearth  of 
resources  and  materials  in  educational  institutions 
worldwide  on  why  slavery  happened,  the  full  extent 
of its consequences and what lessons we have learned 
from  it.  In  addition  to  helping  ensure  that  the  past  is 
remembered  and  never  repeated,  those  activities  also 
offer an opportunity to highlight the often-overlooked 
contributions  that  enslaved  Africans  made  to  their 
economies and communities.
Among  the  principles  on  which  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  was  shaped  are  those  of  equality 
and  non-discrimination.  The  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights proclaims that all human beings are 
born free and equal in dignity and rights; that no one 
shall be held in slavery and servitude and that slavery 
and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms. 
By  adopting  the  draft  resolution  today,  we  dedicate 
ourselves,  once  again,  to  the  task  of  undertaking 
concrete  and  concerted  actions  to  uphold  those  rights 
and freedoms. Once again, we also commit ourselves to 
initiating and supporting efforts that make it abundantly 
clear to the cradle of humanity what such violations of 
human rights and dignity represent. My hope is that our 
joint recollection of the horrors of slavery and the slave 
trade  will  move  us  to  further  resolute  and  concrete 
action. Let us make a fresh resolve today that slavery, 
in  whatever  form  or  manifestation,  will  forever  be  a 
thing of the past.
I now give the floor to the representative of Jamaica, 
who will introduce draft resolution A/68/L.7.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  The 
institutionalized 
system of slavery and its enabler, the transatlantic slave 
trade, represent an appalling yet consequential period 
in  the  course  of  our  human  history.  They  reflect  a 
tragic age when successful efforts to divide the human 
family were played out on a grand scale, encompassing 
the  vast  geographic  and  economic  triangle  linking 
Europe, Africa and the Americas. It was a time when 
our common humanity was not yet acknowledged, and 
a  man  and  his  family,  through  barbaric  exploitation, 
could claim ownership of another man, woman or child, 
and  could  see  to  their  own  needs  and  enlargement  at 
the expense of other human beings. It was a time when 
nations  became  great  and  wealthy.  Others  emerged 
while  some  were  subjugated  and  exploited.  Some 
scholars posit the view that slavery is one of the most 
influential phenomena in history, shaping every aspect 
of the world as we now know it.
So it is an honour for me to introduce today’s draft 
resolution A/68/L.7 in the Assembly, where once again 
the global community has the opportunity to condemn 
that  contemptible  and  barbaric  historical  practice, 
but  also  to  renew  a  pledge  to  ensure  that  nothing  of 
the  kind  is  ever  again  visited  on  humanity.  Draft 
resolution  A/68/L.7,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial 
to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade”, the text of which is before us 
today, continues to take account of the importance of 
ensuring that current and future generations are made 
aware of the past and exhorted to join in a determination 
to prevent anything so dastardly from ever happening 
again.
A key activity in that quest is the erection here at 
United Nations Headquarters of a permanent memorial 
to  honour  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade. Let me take this opportunity, as Chair of 
the committee established to steer the project to reality, 
to advise the Assembly of the successful completion of 
the international artistic competition to select a design 
for the memorial, held over the past two years.
At  this  juncture,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude  to  UNESCO  and  the  United  Nations  Office 
for  Partnerships  for  their  excellent  collaboration  in 
conducting the competition. A total of 310 entries were 
received,  from  persons  representing  83  nationalities. 
Sixteen  contestants  were  shortlisted  and  evaluated 
through  an  anonymous  procedure  by  an  international 
panel of judges, all of whom are experts in their fields 
and  reflect  a  cross-section  of  nationalities.  Seven 
finalists  were  brought  to  New  York  and  interviewed, 
and  their  models  were  assessed  by  the  judges,  who 
came to a unanimous decision on the winning design, 
Ark  of  Return,  by  Rodney  Leon,  which  was  unveiled 
on  23  September  in  a  special  ceremony  here  at  the 
United Nations. I would like to once again congratulate 
Mr. Leon and the other finalists, whose works, we are 
told by the judges, were all of high quality and showed 
a good understanding of the depth and importance of 
the subject matter.
2/9 
13-52279
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.35
The Ark of Return, according to the judges, is an 
entirely  feasible  and  appropriate  proposal,  which  has 
an impressive visual impact and invites exploration by 
the  viewers.  We  therefore  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude  to 
the panel of distinguished judges — Mr. David Boxer, 
from  my  own  country,  Jamaica;  Ms.  Nadia  Bakhurji, 
from  Saudi  Arabia;  Ms.  Dominique  Fontaine,  from 
Canada and Haiti; Mr. Michael Gomez, from New York 
University,  here  in  the  United  States;  and  Mr.  Ashfar 
Isahq, from Pakistan — who undertook this enormous 
task  on  a  completely  voluntary  basis  and  have 
collectively pledged their ongoing commitment to the 
memorial.
It  would  be  remiss  of  me  to  not  also  convey 
deep  appreciation  to  those  Member  States  that  have 
so  generously  contributed  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  the 
Permanent  Memorial.  We  appreciate  all  donations 
received,  which  in  many  ways  reflect  the  broader 
commitment  to  the  goals  of  the  permanent  memorial 
project, as represented not only in the draft resolution 
before us but in those we have annually adopted under 
this  agenda  item  since  2006.  We  also  express  thanks 
to  a  range  of  private  individuals,  corporations  and 
foundations that have made contributions as well. That 
broadens the scope of ownership of and fidelity to this 
noble initiative.
The ongoing work to bring this worthy project to 
completion  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
vision and unstinting support of a team of pioneers who 
laid the firm foundation on which we now build. Here 
I must mention my predecessor, Ambassador Raymond 
Wolfe,  who  worked  tirelessly  to  bring  the  vision  to 
reality.  Allow  me  also  to  make  special  mention  of 
Mr.  Amir  Dossal,  former  head  of  the  United  Nations 
Office for Partnerships, who was a committed partner 
and  who,  although  officially  retired  from  the  United 
Nations, remains faithful to the initiative.
We  will  now  embark  on  the  final  phase  of  the 
project,  which  is  to  commission  the  construction  and 
erection of the memorial on a United Nations podium. 
The aim of the draft resolution is not only to endorse the 
erection of the monument. Although that in itself is an 
admirable accomplishment in honour of the victims of 
slavery, we consider that the more important aspect of 
the draft resolution is the fact that it that calls for broad 
education  and  outreach  to  disseminate  information  to 
the global public on the history and impact of slavery. 
The aim is to influence modern social norms in a way 
that  rejects  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and prejudice and that promotes healing, tolerance and 
respect for diversity.
It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  have  continued  to 
emphasize  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  through 
the  Department  of  Public  Information  in  maintaining 
a focus on that important aspect of relations in global 
society.  I  commend  the  excellent  work  that  has  been 
done by the Department of Public Information over the 
years and implore all Member States to actively engage 
in  the  outreach  programme  envisaged  in  the  draft 
resolution.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/68/291) 
illustrates  the  large  selection  of  noteworthy  activities 
that the Organization has undertaken across the globe to 
achieve that mandate. We encourage further activities 
to that end.
In  commending  this  draft  for  adoption,  let  us  be 
reminded that we share one humanity and that there is 
no place for prejudice and discrimination in the world 
today.  As  we  mark  those  milestones,  the  best  way  to 
honour  the  memory  of  those  victims  is  to  fulfil  their 
fundamental hope for equality, dignity, humanity and 
justice for every human being. I am pleased, therefore, 
on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  the  African 
Group  and  all  our  sponsors,  to  present  this  draft  for 
consideration and adoption.
Mr. Kumar (India): I deem it a singular privilege 
to  be  able  to  speak  on  behalf  of  my  country  on  this 
important agenda item before the General Assembly. I 
would like to welcome the Secretary-General’s report 
on  the  programme  of  educational  outreach  on  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  and  slavery  (A/68/291),  and 
his status report on the United Nations Trust Fund for 
Partnerships—Permanent  Memorial,  that  is,  for  the 
permanent memorial to and remembrance of the victims 
of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade (A/68/135).
The  transatlantic  slave  trade  is  one  of  the  most 
abhorrent  chapters  in  the  history  of  humankind.  It 
ravaged  African  and  Caribbean  nations  to  satisfy  the 
rapacious economic greed and exploitation of colonizers. 
The lingering consequences of its brutality and human 
suffering  are  visible  even  today.  We  must,  therefore, 
take  initiatives  to  ensure  that  future  generations  do 
not forget the grief and tragedy borne by the countless 
nameless victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave 
trade.  It  is  equally  imperative  that  the  international 
community take upon itself a commitment to ensuring 
that  such  crimes  against  humanity  will  never  recur. 
Education  has  a  critical  role  in  creating  awareness 
13-52279
3/9
A/68/PV.35 
21/10/2013
among  current  and  future  generations  of  the  history, 
causes and impact of slavery and the transatlantic slave 
trade.  A  better  understanding  of  history  provides  a 
valuable perspective for confronting today’s challenges.
India welcomes the various outreach activities and 
programmes organized in March by the Department of 
Public  Information  to  commemorate  the  International 
Day of Remembrance at the United Nations, as well as 
in other countries, through its network of information 
centres and partner organizations. We stress the need 
for regular and adequate allocation of financing to the 
Department for organizing such events. We also welcome 
the initiatives undertaken by States in reaffirming their 
commitment  to  implement  paragraphs  101 and  102 of 
the Durban Declaration, aimed at countering the legacy 
of slavery and honouring the memory of the victims of 
slavery and the slave trade.
The construction of a permanent memorial will be 
a fitting tribute by the United Nations to the millions 
of  victims  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  We  are 
pleased  to  note  that  the  international  competition  to 
finalize  the  memorial  design  has  been  concluded, 
and  that  the  Secretary-General  and  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  unveiled  the  winning  design 
in September. With the sum of $260,000, India is the 
lead contributor to the United Nations Trust Fund for 
Partnerships  —  Permanent  Memorial  for  erecting 
a  permanent  memorial.  So  far,  however,  the  Trust 
Fund  has  received  only  close  to  $1.4  million,  against 
an anticipated cost of $4.5 million for the memorial’s 
construction. We therefore strongly urge all countries, 
and  particularly 
the 
transatlantic  trade,  to  come  forward  and  contribute 
generously to show their earnest admission that wrongs 
were committed and that there is a sense of repentance.
As we recall the struggle, the degradation and the 
deaths  of  the  victims  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade, 
we hope that a permanent memorial can be constructed 
at  an  early  date.  It  will  indeed  be  a  small  but  fitting 
commemoration  of  the  struggle  of  the  victims,  who 
suffered silently, with no hope of freedom, before they 
disappeared into the night. We have a chance to pay our 
humble tribute to those who suffered that disgrace by 
contributing generously to the Trust Fund. That is the 
least we can all do.
that  benefited 
those 
from 
Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  African  Group.  I  would  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  Jamaica  and  all  involved  for  the  tireless 
efforts they have been making to the realization of the 
Permanent Memorial. I admit we all have to do more.
The  transatlantic  slave  trade  is  the  gravest  crime 
committed  against  humanity  with  few  rivals  in  its 
infamy and cruelty. The inhumane and barbaric manner 
in which it was committed, its magnitude and the time 
span over which it was allowed to continue have no par 
in history and will remain a scar on the conscience of 
humanity. Africans and peoples of African descent have 
suffered for centuries owing to that horrendous crime. 
Even after the official abolition of the slave trade, its 
institutionalized  legacy  continued  to  be  a  source  of 
exploitation, humiliation, discrimination, bias, hatred, 
prejudice and racism against peoples of African origin 
both in the continent and elsewhere.
As we remember that unparalleled crime, we cherish 
the struggles of those Africans and their descendants, 
who aspired and dreamed to live in freedom and equality. 
We  recognize,  with  great  emotion,  their  contribution 
to the genesis of the ideal of Pan-Africanism, an ideal 
that  inspired  a  people’s  movement  in  the  diaspora, 
which was later joined by Africans from the continent. 
Indeed,  that  movement,  among  other  things,  created 
the momentum for Africa’s quest for freedom from the 
yoke of colonialism and, later, for the establishment of 
the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  As  we  are 
celebrating the golden jubilee of the OAU/African Union 
this year, we indeed remember those who perished and 
the immense contribution of those who followed them.
It is therefore imperative that we remember those 
who perished and were uprooted. That has meaning for 
today  and  for  the  future  and  posterity.  We  are  of  the 
view that a clear and frank analysis of the situation and 
the heroic struggle of those who rose up against slavery 
can provide a valuable perspective and be a source of 
pride and motivation for present and future generations 
in overcoming today’s challenges.
In that connection, we have noted with satisfaction 
the  successful  conclusion  of  the  international  design 
competition  for  the  Permanent  Memorial  and  the 
selection of the design for Ark of Return as the model 
for  the  permanent  memorial.  However,  the  fact  that 
as  of  June  2013  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund  for 
Partnerships—Permanent Memorial has received only 
$1.37 million as against the anticipated expenditure of 
three times that existing balance for the construction of 
the Memorial is indicative of how much more we still 
have to do. In that regard, we encourage Member States 
4/9 
13-52279
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.35
and other interested parties to make further voluntary 
contributions to the Trust Fund. We all have obligations, 
without exception.
In  our  view,  the  Memorial  will  not  only  serve  as 
a hallmark for us to pay our respect but will also be a 
reminder for the international community of the grief 
and  tragedy  borne  by  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade.
Africa welcomes the various remembrance activities 
and  programmes  undertaken  by  the  Department  of 
Public  Information,  including  the  commemorative 
activities  at  the  United  Nations  in  March  2013.  We 
support  the  continued  efforts  of  the  Department  of 
Public  Information  to  utilize  its  network  of  global 
information centres to build awareness on the issue. We 
also  welcome  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  States  in 
reaffirming their commitment to implement paragraphs 
101  and  102  of  the  Durban  Declaration  of  the  World 
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination, 
Xenophobia  and  Related 
Intolerance,  aimed  at 
countering  the  legacy  of  slavery  and  honouring  the 
memory of the victims of slavery and the slave trade.
As sponsors of draft resolution A/68/L.7, the States 
members of the Africa Group fully support the speedy 
implementation  of  the  initiative  of  Member  States 
to  erect,  in  a  place  of  prominence  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters that is easily accessible to representatives, 
United Nations staff and visitors, a permanent memorial 
in acknowledgement of the tragedy and in consideration 
of the legacy of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. 
The adoption of a draft resolution is the least we can do.
Mr.  Strickland  (United  States  of  America):  As 
a  multicultural  society,  the  United  States  remains 
committed 
the 
dignity of people regardless of race or background and 
countering  the  hateful  legacy  of  slavery.  We  believe 
strongly in spreading awareness of the struggle of the 
men,  women  and  children  who  fell  victim  to  slavery 
and to educating future generations on that tragic past 
as  a  means  of  combating  racism  and  prejudice.  The 
United States continues to press forward on eliminating 
discrimination  within  our  own  country,  as  well  as  in 
joining  the  global  community  in  creating  a  world  of 
freedom and equality for all.
racism,  safeguarding 
fighting 
to 
In  addition,  the  United  States  has  supported 
UNESCO’s  Breaking  the  Silence  transatlantic  slave 
trade education project. As part of that effort, we have 
engaged  Governments  and  civil  society  organizations 
alike to raise awareness of the history of the slave trade 
as well as to highlight the invaluable contributions made 
by persons of African descent in every field of human 
endeavour. The United States is proud to congratulate 
Mr.  Rodney  Leon  on  his  being  chosen  to  design  the 
Permanent  Memorial.  Mr.  Leon,  a  Haitian-American, 
is a celebrated artist whose work has offered our nation 
space and inspiration to reflect on our painful history 
as well as on the progress we have made. His design, 
Ark of Return, will inspire us to remember and honour 
the  victims  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade,  to  reflect 
on  the  past  and  the  lessons  we  have  learned,  and  to 
contemplate  the  steps  we  each  must  take  to  combat 
the lingering consequences of slavery and to eradicate 
discrimination.
The United States is honoured to co-sponsor today’s 
draft resolution (A/68/L.7) on the Permanent Memorial 
to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the 
translatlantic  slave  trade.  We  must  never  forget  the 
terrible human tragedy of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade and the moral courage of those who worked 
to end it.
Mr.  Magid  (Israel):  I  would 
thank 
Ambassador  Rattray  and  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Jamaica for their leadership and their efforts to bring 
this  important  subject  to  the  forefront  of  the  United 
Nations agenda.
like 
to 
The  American  author  Robert  Heinlein  once  said, 
“A generation that ignores history has no past … and 
no  future”.  Today  we  recommit  ourselves  to  memory 
so as to ensure that the tragedies of the past have clear 
lessons  for  the  future.  The  transatlantic  slave  trade 
casts a dark shadow over history. The enslavement of 
Africans was cruel and dehumanizing. Thirty million 
people  were  forced  from  their  homes,  uprooted  from 
villages and driven into bondage. Many have recalled 
the  horrific  conditions  during  their  voyages  and  their 
conditions during their enslavement. The dark centuries 
of the slave trade represent one of the longest and most 
sustained assaults on the life, integrity and dignity of 
human  beings  in  history,  yet  even  after  the  abolition 
of  slavery,  living  conditions  for  African  communities 
remained horrific during the nineteenth century.
The  Jewish  people  share  the  story  of  people  who 
were  persecuted.  The  Jewish  Bible  describes  how  the 
Jewish  people  emerged  from  bitter  enslavement  in 
ancient Egypt to become a nation in the land of Israel. 
They remained there until conquering forces expelled 
13-52279
5/9
A/68/PV.35 
21/10/2013
and  scattered  them  across  the  globe.  Powerless  and 
persecuted,  they  suffered  in  every  country  and  every 
century. Every day for 2,000 years, Jews prayed, asking 
God to return them to the land of Israel. At long last, 
in 1948, we realized independence and the opportunity 
to  rebuild  our  own  land.  We  built  our  State  on  the 
principles of freedom, tolerance and understanding.
The  Jewish  people  identify  with  the  suffering  of 
the peoples of Africa and the Caribbean and all those 
who share a burdened history. Because we were born 
in  slavery,  we  understand  the  yearning  for  freedom. 
Because  we  suffered  the  indignity  of  persecution,  we 
understand  the  value  of  human  dignity.  And  because 
for 2,000 years Jews’ lives were held to be cheap, we 
understand the sanctity of life.
Israel  is  proud  of  its  financial  contribution  to  the 
Permanent  Memorial  in  honour  of  victims  of  slavery 
and the international slave trade. We are honoured to be 
among the sponsors of the draft resolution on the topic, 
as we have been every year. The Memorial must serve 
as a call to action — a call to every nation, every leader 
and every citizen — to do everything they can to ensure 
that no human being is ever enslaved.
All  human  beings  are  born  free  and  equal  in 
dignity and rights. Yet as we gather here today, many 
around the world are not free. Every year, hundreds of 
thousands  of  people,  mostly  women  and  children,  are 
trafficked across borders worldwide. The trafficking of 
human beings is a grave injustice that has no place in a 
civilized world. There is also no place in the civilized 
world for those who enslave others with hate, racism and 
prejudice. They are the fuel that power persecution, war 
and violence. We must believe in memorials. Through 
education,  remembrance  and  vigilance  we  can  ensure 
that the tragedies of the past serve as clear lessons for 
the future.
Israel joins with the international community today 
in  advancing  that  work.  Together,  we  must  extend  a 
promise  to  our  children  that  freedom  is  universal, 
dignity is inherent, and that life is sacred.
Mr.  Gaspard  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 
all,  allow  me  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
reports  (A/68/135  and  A/68/291)  and  also  to  welcome 
the excellent work carried out by the commemoration 
committee  for  the  200th  anniversary  under  the  wise 
and  energetic  leadership  of  our  friend  and  brother 
country, Jamaica. In that regard, my delegation would 
like to support the statement made by the Ambassador 
of Jamaica.
This  morning’s  discussion  is,  for  my  delegation, 
a very special one. Indeed, it is occurring only a few 
days  after  17  October,  the  anniversary  of  the  death 
of  the  founder  of  the  Haitian  nation,  Jean-Jacques 
Dessalines. It also takes place just a few days after the 
commemorative activities held by the authorities of the 
city of Savannah at the memorial erected to the memory 
of the Haitian heroes who took part in the great battle of 
Savannah, at the end of the eighteenth century.
in 
The  commemorative  activities  conducted  by  our 
Organization, the information provided by its Member 
States 
their  national  educational  programmes, 
under paragraph 8 of resolution 67/108, and the many 
programmes developed by UNESCO all show that we 
are  on  the  right  path  regarding  the  goals  we  have  set 
ourselves.  My  delegation  can  only  encourage  staying 
the course.
In the same vein, we welcome the noble initiative 
taken  up  by  Member  States  to  build  a  Permanent 
Memorial  at  United  Nations  Headquarters.  The 
execution  of  such  a  project  will  be  an  important 
moment  in  the  life  of  our  Organization.  Beyond  its 
symbolic  significance,  the  Memorial  should  serve  as 
a real catalyst for unity and for a major reconciliation 
among peoples. The Memorial must also contribute to 
combating forgetfulness and to building this great work 
of  memory,  so  very  necessary  in  order  to  serve  as  a 
reminder that throughout history thousands of human 
beings have been deprived of their freedom and treated 
as things, as merchandise, as something that is valuable 
and to be exploited at will.
My  delegation  would  therefore  like  to  welcome 
the  establishment  of  a  trust  fund  for  the  Permanent 
Memorial,  called  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund  for 
Partnerships—Permanent  Memorial,  and  takes  this 
opportunity to express its deep gratitude to all States 
that  have  made  contributions  to  the  Fund.  For  my 
delegation,  the  Permanent  Memorial  will  represent 
an  acknowledgement  of  the  bitter  struggles  that 
our  ancestors  waged  to  eradicate  forever  that  cruel, 
inhuman  and  degrading  order  that  the  colonial  and 
slavery system represented, to bring about a new world. 
Our presence here to discuss it is a clear manifestation 
of that.
My country was the pioneer of that great struggle. 
Haiti’s  contribution  to  the  birth  of  that  free  world 
6/9 
13-52279
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.35
is  incontestably  and  universally  recognized,  even  if 
sometimes certain events arise to push us to forget or 
minimize it. It is important for us to briefly recall some 
historical  facts  that  are  universally  recognized  and 
which mark the contribution of Haiti in the liberation 
of humanity from slavery.
First, as we said at the beginning, Haitian fighters 
were in Savannah in 1779, fighting alongside American 
combatants in their struggle for liberation. Among those 
heroes,  we  can  cite  Henry  Christophe,  Jean-Baptiste 
Chavannes, Jean-Louis Villatte and André Rigaud, to 
name  just  a  few.  It  is  to  pay  tribute  to  those  freedom 
fighters that the city of Savannah erected a memorial to 
their memory in October 2007.
Secondly, 
in  1804,  during  an  unprecedented 
revolutionary  war,  we  overthrew  a  colonial  and  slave 
order  that  was  established  on  the  island  of  Santo 
Domingo, which gave birth to the first black republic 
in  the  world.  The  island  of  Santo  Domingo  became 
the  Republic  of  Haiti.  One  should  emphasize  that 
immediately  after  Haitian  independence,  hospitality 
and  Haitian  nationality  were  granted  to  all  blacks 
around the world who were fleeing the slave order and 
arrived on Haitian territory.
Thirdly, once independent, the generals of that era, 
including  Alexandre  Pétion,  helped  several  fraternal 
Latin American countries in their liberation struggles 
by  providing  weapons,  ammunition  and  soldiers.  In 
recognition of that support, some countries integrated 
the colour red, which is one of the two colours of the 
Haitian  flag,  into  their  national  flags.  We  would  also 
like to recall that the flag of one Latin America country 
was  actually  sewn  in  Haiti,  and  Simón  Bolivar  made   
several trips to Haiti.
Fourthly, during the Second World War, we granted 
hospitality  to  many  peoples  who  were  persecuted  in 
their own homelands and elsewhere, including Jewish 
people.
Fifthly, in the 1960s Haiti played a major role in the 
decolonization  of  the  Africa  continent.  Thus,  among 
the  other  efforts  undertaken,  it  is  important  to  recall 
that many Haitian professors were sent to Africa.
The list is a long one.
In  recalling  those  few  historical  facts,  we  do  not 
want  to  talk  about  past  behaviour;  rather,  we  want  to 
recall that Haiti has always moved forward with history 
and always played the role that history assigned to it. 
Here we would like to show that solidarity is not simply 
connected to the wealth of a State. It is first and foremost 
a matter of the heart, of generosity, of humanity.
All that is to say that we attach great importance 
to  the  monitoring  of  the  commemoration  of  the 
bicentenary  of  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade. The choice of theme, “Victory over slavery: Haiti 
and beyond,” to commemorate 2014 is for us a source 
of pride, satisfaction and recognition of Haiti’s historic 
role in the fight to end slavery. We welcome the choice.
At the opening of the international conference held 
in 2009 on the Haitian Revolution and the universality 
of human rights, the then UNESCO Assistant Director-
General  for  Social  and  Human  Sciences,  Mr.  Pierre 
Sané, presented Haiti as the cradle of human rights. He 
said, “The universality of human rights was conceived 
in Paris in 1789, but the birth occurred in Haiti a few 
years later”.
In  conclusion,  may 
the 
Permanent  Memorial  lead  to  greater  respect  for  the 
rights  of  all  peoples  in  the  world,  regardless  of  their 
place of origin or what they have suffered.
the  construction  of 
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We Cubans are proud of our African roots. The identity 
of  the  Cuban  nation  was  the  result  of  a  process  of 
acculturation  that  occurred  with  inputs  from  various 
ethnic groups in difficult environments, first colonial, 
then neocolonial. From 1959 onwards, a phase of true 
integration  began,  where  all  the  components  of  the 
Cuban nation were given equal value. We are essentially 
a blend of our Hispanic and African heritage. We have 
also been influenced by Asia and the Native American 
peoples.
In  Cuba  as  in  several  other  countries  in  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  we  can  clearly  see  the 
consequences  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  The 
colonial plantations of the island saw the arrival, as part 
of that cruel trade, of about 1,300,000 Africans. Those 
men, women and children were snatched by force from 
their  African  villages  and  families  and  sold  as  slave 
labour on the other side of the Atlantic.
With  the  passage  of  the  centuries,  Cuban  culture 
and  nationality  arose,  also  nourished  by  our  African 
heritage. Cubans are grateful to their African ancestors 
for,  among  many  other  things,  their  wisdom,  joy, 
creativity  and  adaptability  to  adverse  environments, 
the  richness  of  their  history  and  religious  beliefs, 
13-52279
7/9
A/68/PV.35 
21/10/2013
the  rhythm  of  their  music,  their  energy  in  spirit  and, 
essentially, their spirit of rebellion against injustice and 
their dauntless courage in the struggle for independence 
and freedom.
Freed slaves and their descendants were the main 
actors  in  the  various  phases  of  the  wars  that  made  it 
possible  for  the  Cuban  people  to  exercise  their  self-
determination.  As  the  commander-in-chief  of  the 
Cuban  Revolution,  Fidel  Castro,  said  in  his  statement 
at  the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance in 
Durban in 2001:
“The 
diseases, 
infant  mortality, 
to  which 
inhuman  exploitation 
the 
peoples  of  the  three  continents,  including  Asia, 
were  subjected  affected  the  destiny  and  the  daily 
lives of over 4.5 billion people living in third world 
countries,  whose  poverty  rates,  unemployment, 
illiteracy, 
life 
expectancy,  and  other  innumerable  calamities  are 
impossible to enumerate briefly, are shocking and 
horrific. They are the contemporary victims of that 
atrocity,  which  lasted  for  centuries,  and  clearly 
deserve  compensation  for  the  horrendous  crimes 
committed against their ancestors and peoples.”
Developed countries and their consumer societies, 
which  are  responsible  for  the  accelerated  and  nearly 
unstoppable destruction of the environment, have been 
the  main  beneficiaries  of  conquest  and  colonization, 
transatlantic  slavery  and  human  trafficking  and  the 
ruthless exploitation and extermination of hundreds of 
millions of children of the South. They have also been 
enriched through the unjust economic order oppressing 
humankind and the international financial institutions 
created exclusively by them and for them. That rich and 
wasteful  world  possesses  the  technical  and  financial 
resources to pay its debt to humankind.
Cuba  supports  the  just  compensation  request 
put  forward  by  the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM). Cuba also demands the special 
and differentiated treatment that developing countries 
merit  and  need,  particularly  the  African  countries,  in 
terms  of  international  economic  relationships.  Cuba 
rejects  the  shameful  and  selfish  opulence  of  the  few 
that is guiding the ongoing globalization.
Cuba supports and co-sponsors the draft resolution 
that is presented, each year, by the States members of 
CARICOM  and  the  African  Group.  Cuba  recognizes 
the  importance  of  strengthening  the  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  and  other  international  organizations, 
especially UNESCO, in the matter. It is the minimum 
that the international community can do to repair the 
crime committed against humanity in the form of the 
transatlantic trade that forced Africans into slavery.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on agenda item 120.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.7,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial 
to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/68/L.7,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Andorra, 
Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Belgium, 
Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape  Verde,  China,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech Republic, Denmark, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, 
Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, 
Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland, Japan, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Norway,  Paraguay,  the 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, the Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, 
Serbia, the Republic of Seychelles, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain,  Thailand,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia and Ukraine.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/68/L.7?
Draft resolution A/68/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
68/7).
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of Brazil.
Mrs.  Almeida  Watanabe  Patriota 
(Brazil): 
Brazil can not overstress its thanks to Member States, 
the  United  Nations  and  civil  society  for  their  tireless 
efforts  in  organizing  and  successfully  accomplishing 
the  international  competition  to  build  the  Permanent 
Memorial  on  United  Nations  premises  in  honour  of 
the victims of the transatlantic slave trade. That trade 
was  one  of  the  worst  tragedies,  as  it  was  the  largest 
8/9 
13-52279
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.35
and  longest-lasting  crime  ever  committed  against 
humankind.
Brazil commends the joint efforts of Member States, 
in particular the Permanent Mission of Jamaica, for its 
leadership  of  the  Permanent  Memorial  Committee,  in 
which Brazil proudly participates. Brazil is convinced 
that  the  hour  has  come  for  the  proclamation  by  the 
United  Nations  of  the  international  decade  for  people 
of African descent.
As  stressed  by  the  representative  of  Jamaica, 
the  establishment  of  the  Permanent  Memorial  is  a 
milestone; however, it is but a first step along the long 
and  necessary  path  to  achieve  the  broad  education  of 
the public in order to raise awareness against prejudice, 
intolerance and racism. Brazil will endeavour to make 
every  necessary  effort  and  work  with  Member  States 
and partners towards the adoption of a draft resolution 
on  the  international  decade  for  people  of  African 
descent,  as  mandated  in  paragraph  79  of  resolution 
67/155.
In  conclusion,  Brazil  would  request  the  decisive 
support  of  Member  States  and  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly to that end.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
120.
The meeting rose at 11 a.m.
13-52279
9/9
