United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
38th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.38
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 40
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/116)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.6)
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  We  welcome  the  participation  in  today’s 
discussion  of  Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
We would also like to express our appreciation to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
(A/68/116),  which  presents  the  views  of  Member 
States  condemning  the  unilateral  and  extraterritorial 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba.
Russia’s  principled  position  is  well  known  and 
remains  unchanged.  Our  country,  along  with  an 
overwhelming majority of the international community, 
supports  the  immediate  lifting  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  of  Cuba  by  the 
United States. The ideologically motivated and decades-
long  anti-Cuba  embargo  is  a  historical  anachronism, 
an  echo  of  the  long-dead  era  of  the  Cold  War.  This 
unfriendly  act,  carried  out  in  violation  of  numerous 
General Assembly resolutions, inflicts serious damage 
on Cuba’s national economy, infringes on its citizens’ 
in 
legal rights, worsens their living conditions and has a 
negative impact on the interests of third-party countries.
We  believe  such  damaging  unilateral  political 
coercion  to  be  incompatible  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  conducive  to  an  atmosphere  of 
increased  confrontation 
international  relations. 
In  that  regard,  on  22  October,  the  State  Duma  of  the 
Russian  Federation  appealed  unanimously 
the 
General  Assembly,  the  national  parliaments  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
parliamentary organizations to help end the sanctions 
against  Cuba.  Expressing  their  solidarity  with  the 
people  of  Cuba,  Russia’s 
lawmakers  emphasized 
Cuba’s right to determine its own path to political and 
economic development.
to 
Guided by the fundamental principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations, based on the inadmissibility of 
any  discriminatory  action  or  interference  in  States’ 
internal  affairs,  the  Russian  delegation  supports  the 
draft  resolution  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth session (A/68/L.6) with its demand for abolition 
of the blockade imposed by the United States on Cuba.
Mr. Thomson (Fiji): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China on agenda item 40, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”.
I would first like to acknowledge the presence of 
His Excellency Mr. Bruno Eduardo Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-53496 (E)
*1353496*
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
The  Group  of  77  and  China  expresses  its  deep 
concern  about  the  continued  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  unilaterally  imposed  for  more 
than  half  a  century  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba. The Group of 77 and China reiterates that 
the embargo against Cuba contravenes the fundamental 
norms of international law, international humanitarian 
law, the Charter of the United Nations and the norms and 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States. 
Its continued application violates the principles of the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  of  non-intervention 
and non-interference in one another’s domestic affairs.
The embargo continues to impose severe economic 
and  financial  restrictions  on  Cuba.  It  has  caused  and 
continues  to  cause  a  high  degree  of  economic  and 
financial damage. It has a negative impact on the welfare 
and  well-being  of  the  people  of  Cuba  and  constitutes 
a  very  significant  hindrance  to  Cuba’s  economic  and 
social development.
The  deepening  impact  of  the  ongoing  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  and  the  continued 
embargo  imposed  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States — which includes sanctions and the application 
of  extraterritorial  national  laws  against  third-party 
countries’  citizens,  institutions  and  companies  that 
establish economic, commercial and financial relations 
with Cuba — will contribute to further aggravating the 
Cuban  people’s  hardships.  Furthermore,  the  embargo 
frustrates  efforts  to  achieve  all  the  internationally 
agreed development goals, including the all-important 
Millennium Development Goals, and negatively affects 
regional cooperation in the area.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  has  always  been 
firmly  against  the  embargo.  That  position  has  been 
reiterated at its major summits, where the Group firmly 
has  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and  regulations 
with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other  forms  of 
coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral 
sanctions against developing countries, and has called 
on the United States Government to put an end to the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.
The Group of 77 and China would like to reiterate 
once  again  its  long-standing  and  principled  position 
on this important matter, and to recall the ministerial 
declaration of the thirty-seventh annual Meeting of the 
Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Group, held in New 
York in September. The Ministers firmly rejected the 
imposition of laws and regulations with extraterritorial 
impact  and  all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic 
measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions  against 
developing countries, and reiterated the urgent need to 
eliminate them immediately.
The Group of 77 and China is committed to working 
for  the  achievement  of  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations. Such a goal requires that all nations adhere to 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the 
peaceful  conduct  of  relations  among  nations  and  the 
rule of law, including international law.
We recall that last year 188 Member States voted in 
favour of the resolution introduced by the representative 
of Cuba (resolution 67/4). That number represented an 
overwhelming majority of the international community, 
demanding  an  end  to  the  five-decades-old  embargo 
and full adherence to the principles of mutual respect 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  a  State 
Member of the United Nations.
The Group of 77 and China will again fully support 
the draft resolution against the embargo (A/68/L.6) and 
urges all Member States to do likewise.
Mr.  Montaño  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  For 
more than 20 years, Mexico has come to this forum to 
express its strong rejection of the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba and to set out its opposition to 
the use of coercive measures that are not supported in 
law.
We recognize the progress Cuba has made towards 
meeting  the  targets  established  for  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  despite  the  negative  impact  of 
the  embargo,  which  over  half  a  century  has  been  the 
main obstacle to the country’s further development and 
therefore to improving the life of the people.
The  Government  of  Mexico  reiterates  its  firm 
rejection  of  the  application  of  unilateral  measures  or 
laws such as this economic embargo against any State. 
We  must  underscore  that  what  is  occurring  in  Cuba 
flouts and goes against the stance of our countries. No 
kind  of  political,  economic  or  military  sanctions  can 
be imposed on a State except on the basis of decisions 
or  recommendations  by  the  Security  Council  or  the 
General Assembly.
Mexico  and  Cuba  enjoy  historic  ties  in  a  climate 
of  renewed  confidence, 
the 
purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, in particular peaceful coexistence. 
invariably  observing 
2/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
During his recent visit to Cuba, the Foreign Minister of 
Mexico recognized the reform process in Cuba and the 
opportunities  it  presented  for  increasing  investment, 
bilateral  trade  and  cooperation  programmes  and  for 
continuing our high-level political dialogue.
The Government of Mexico has reiterated its firm 
opposition  to  the  economic,  political  and  diplomatic 
isolation  of  Cuba.  We 
therefore  have  decisively 
supported Cuba’s incorporation into regional integration 
mechanisms  with  a  view  to  promoting  economic  and 
trade exchanges, cooperation and development.
In keeping with what I have said, and in a gesture 
of  great  significance  for  relations  between  our  two 
countries, Mexico will vote in favour of draft resolution 
A/68/L.6  before  us  today.  We  believe  that  this  is  the 
least we can do to bring to an end a deplorable state of 
affairs that has persisted for more than 40 years.
Mr.  Gálvez  (Chile)  (spoke in Spanish):  I  have  the 
honour to address the General Assembly on behalf of the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC) on the occasion of the introduction of draft 
resolution A/68/L.6, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
each  year, 
a 
Since 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  47/19  on 
the  General  Assembly  has 
24  November  1992, 
resolution 
successively 
adopted, 
emphasizing  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  It  should  be 
recalled that at its sixty-seventh session, the Assembly 
adopted  resolution  67/4  with  the  same  title,  with  the 
overwhelming  support  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. Since 1992, 21 resolutions of the most 
representative  and  democratic  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, namely, the General Assembly, have time and 
again  requested  an  end  to  the  embargo  imposed  on 
Cuba.
Today,  we  are  meeting  to  consider  this  resolution 
once  again.  The  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States wishes to affirm its support for what 
will  be  the  Assembly’s  twenty-second  resolution  on 
this  matter.  It  is  important  to  reiterate  the  underlying 
motivations for the position of CELAC on this subject. 
In  our  view,  the  commercial,  economic  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the  letter, 
spirit, and principles and purposes of the Charter of the 
United Nations and international law.
The Charter of the United Nations enshrines rights, 
obligations  and  principles  that  have  become  part  of 
the  legal  corpus  not  only  of  international  law  but  of 
humankind. It must not be violated or harmed by any 
Member. Member States must align their national and 
international behaviour with the rights, obligations and 
principles enshrined in our founding Charter. CELAC 
reiterates  those  principles,  including  the  principles  of 
the sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and 
non-interference  in  internal  affairs,  freedom  of  trade 
and navigation, and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed against Cuba began in 1959 and continues to 
this day. Today, the embargo has become a rigid system 
of unilateral measures that has been extended over time, 
creating severe economic losses for the Cuban people, 
which are felt in the most sensitive areas of their life. 
We express our deep concern on the strengthening of 
the extraterritorial dimensions of the embargo, as well 
as on the increasing persecution of Cuba’s international 
financial transactions, which is contrary to the political 
will of the international community, as reflected in the 
resolution.
the 
so-called  Helms-Burton  Act, 
CELAC  reiterates  the  concern,  already  expressed 
in resolution 67/4, regarding the application by States 
Members of the United Nations of laws and regulations 
such  as 
the 
extraterritorial effects of which affect the sovereignty 
of  other  States  and  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities 
or persons under their jurisdiction, and the freedom of 
trade and navigation. The unilateral measures applied 
under  the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  are  affecting 
many  companies  that  conduct  business  with  Cuba  in 
accordance with international law, including the norms 
established by the World Trade Organization. Over the 
past  year,  numerous  restrictions  and  fines  have  been 
imposed  on  international  companies,  some  of  them 
belonging to members of our Community.
We would like to recall that at the CELAC Summit 
held in Santiago de Chile on 28 January, the member 
States of our Community issued a special communiqué 
on the need to put an end to the economic, trade and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against  Cuba,  in  which  they  reiterated  their  strongest 
condemnation of the application of laws and measures 
contrary to international law, such as the Helms-Burton 
Act, including its extraterritorial effect, and called on 
the Government of the United States to put an end to the 
application of that Act.
13-53496
3/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States strongly supports the adoption of draft resolution 
A/68/L.6, entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”. We emphasize 
the  incompatibility  of  the  application  of  unilateral 
measures, which have no backing in international law, 
with  the  letter,  spirit,  and  principles  and  purposes  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  call  urgently 
on  the  United  States  of  America  to  align  its  relevant 
national  legislation  with  the  Charter,  the  resolutions 
of the General Assembly, the views of the countries of 
Latin America and the Caribbean and of all the regions 
of the world, as well as with the voice of its own people.
CELAC  is  counting  on  the  support  traditionally 
given  to  the  resolution  submitted  today  for  the 
consideration of this body, which refers to the adverse 
effects being inflicted on one of our members.
Finally,  we  call  for  the  respect,  with  no  excuses, 
for the sovereignty and self-determination of the Cuban 
nation.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM).
Allow me to begin by recognizing the presence at 
this  meeing  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. Through 
him  we  offer  our  greetings  to  and  solidarity  with  the 
people and Government of Cuba.
Today,  we  are  considering  for  the  twenty-second 
time a draft resolution on the embargo imposed by the 
United  States  Government  against  Cuba  (A/68/L.6). 
Last  year,  in  an  historic  move,  188  Member  States  in 
the  Assembly  voted  in  favour  of  a  similar  resolution 
(resolution  67/4),  thereby  expressing  their  support  to 
the people of Cuba and overwhelmingly denouncing the 
illegal embargo against that country. The overwhelming 
majority of Member States that supported the resolution 
clearly showed how the international community stands 
on this important issue.
The Non-Aligned Movement has always reiterated 
its strongest opposition to unilateral coercive measures 
with extraterritoriality effects.
an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba,  which 
is  unilateral  and 
contrary  to  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  addition,  it  causes  huge  material 
losses  and  economic  damage  to  the  people  of  Cuba. 
The  NAM  Summit  further  expressed  deep  concern 
over the widening of the extraterritorial nature of the 
embargo and rejected the reinforcement of the measure 
adopted by the Government of the United States aimed 
at  tightening  the  embargo,  as  well  as  all  other  recent 
measures  carried  out  by  that  Government  against  the 
people  of  Cuba.  They  reiterated  that  those  measures 
constitute  a  violation  of  Cuba’s  sovereignty  and  a 
massive violation of the human rights of its people. The 
NAM  Summit  also  urged  strict  compliance  with  the 
General Assembly resolutionson this issue.
The coercive measures in place are more than just 
a  bilateral  embargo  against  Cuba,  as  the  Government 
of the United States claims. They in fact consist of an 
extraterritorial  embargo  that  affects  Cuba’s  dealings 
with  third  countries,  which  violates  State  sovereignty 
and the right to free trade. In so doing, it further flouts 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations. 
The  embargo,  which  has  been  in  place  for  more  than 
50 years, is also a despicable practice, as it undermines 
the human rights of the Cuban people. For over 50 years, 
the  embargo  has  sought  a  change  of  Government  in 
Cuba  through  pressuring  and  punishing  the  Cuban 
people. It has so far failed to achieve that goal, and it 
will not ever be able to achieve it.
The  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  United  States 
Government is characteristic of an era in which lawless 
actions  and  behaviours  prevailed  in  relations  among 
States. Despite the huge pressure, the people of Cuba 
have endured hardship resulting from the embargo over 
so many decades. They are indeed worthy of praise for 
the  significant  progress  they  have  made,  specifically 
in  sensitive  areas  like  education,  health  care  and 
international cooperation, among others. Undoubtedly, 
the  embargo  has  denied  Cuba  access  to  markets, 
to  development  aid  from 
international  financial 
institutions,  and  to  technology  transfer,  which  are  of 
great  importance  for  the  development  of  the  Cuban 
economy and for the well-being and advancement of its 
people.
At 
the  most  recent  Summit  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries,  held  in  Tehran  in  August  2012,  the  Heads 
of  State  or  Government  reiterated  their  call  on  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  put 
In  closing,  my  delegation  reiterates,  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement, its call on the Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to  comply  with  the 
provisions of the 21 resolutions already adopted by the 
4/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
General Assembly on this issue and to put an end to the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba.
Mr. Bame (Ethiopia): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the African Group on agenda item 40, entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
The  African  Group  associates  itself  with  the 
statement made earlier by the representative of Fiji on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
For  over  two  decades,  the  General  Assembly  has 
adopted,  by  an  overwhelming  majority,  resolutions 
submitted by Cuba on this agenda item. However, over 
those years, the resolutions have not been implemented 
at  all.  The  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade has not been lifted, and it continues to cause 
unnecessary hardship on Cuba and its people.
In today’s world, dialogue and negotiation remain 
the  appropriate  way  to  settle  disputes  and  to  ensure 
peaceful  coexistence  among  States.  Africa  hopes  that 
the United States, in accordance with the purposes and 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the relevant General Assembly resolutions, will put an 
end  to  its  embargo  against  Cuba.  The  African  Group 
also hopes that relations between the two countries will 
significantly  improve.  Apart  from  the  benefits  in  the 
bilateral area, that will contribute to the promotion of 
stability and development in the entire region.
In that regard, we would like to reiterate the decision 
of the 21st Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads 
of State and Government of the African Union on the 
matter at its meeting held in Addis Ababa on 26 May 
2013.  Our  Heads  of  State  and  Government  reiterated 
their call on and once again invited the Government of 
the United States of America to lift the economic and 
trade embargo imposed on Cuba. It is our hope that the 
United States, in line with the resolutions of the General 
Assembly,  will  consider  its  position  with  the  view  to 
creating a situation for a new chapter in United States-
Cuba  relations,  for  which  the  lifting  of  the  embargo 
would no doubt lay a very solid foundation.
Africa  affirms  its  full  support  for  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.6  before  us  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
embargo against Cuba. We do so, first of all, because 
it  is  right.  We  do  so  also  because  Cuba  has  a  proud 
history in Africa because of its role in Africa’s struggle 
for  liberation.  The  people  of  Africa  will  continue  to 
remember  that  role,  and  the  people  of  Cuba  should 
continue to be proud of that historic contribution.
Mr. Olhaye (Djibouti): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation 
(O1C)  on  agenda  item  40,  :  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. 
We thank the Secretary-General for his report on 
the  embargo  (A/68/116),  which  has  been  in  place  for 
half a century despite its repeated rejection by Member 
States,  the  United  Nations  system  and  regional  and 
non-governmental organizations.
As  it  has  done  in  the  past,  the  OIC  expresses  its 
deep  concern  at  the  lingering  embargo  against  Cuba, 
which  contravenes  the  basic  principles  governing 
peaceful  relations  among  States  and  also  violates  the 
principles of non-intervention and non-interference in 
the domestic affairs of States, as well as the sovereign 
equality of States.
Since 1992, every year, the General Assembly has 
adopted  a  resolution  highlighting  the  unacceptable 
humanitarian cost and effects on the Cuban population 
of  the  embargo’s  many  direct  and  indirect  punitive 
measures,  which 
in  all  probability  have  been 
counterproductive  in  terms  of  their  impact  on  Cuba’s 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
Those  unilateral  measures  have  helped  to  infringe 
upon  and  impede  the  development  aspirations  of  the 
people  of  Cuba  and  have  continuously  frustrated  the 
efforts  of  Cubans  to  enjoy  decent  living  conditions. 
The  OIC  stresses  that  the  unilateral  measures  of  the 
embargo imposed on Cuba have severely affected many 
companies  and  entities  that  conduct  normal  business 
with  Cuba  in  accordance  with  international  law  and 
within  the  regulatory  framework  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization,  thereby  causing  severe  economic  and 
commercial hardship in the nation.
The OIC is fully committed to contributing towards 
the achievement of peaceful coexistence among nations 
and  adhering  to  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. In the same vain, all nations, regardless 
of  their  power,  size  or  natural  endowment,  are  called 
upon to fully adhere to the principles of mutual respect, 
the peaceful conduct of relations among nations and the 
rule of law. 
The normalization of relations between the United 
States  of  America  and  Cuba  is  long  overdue;  the 
prevailing situation is unsustainable. We all agree that 
13-53496
5/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
it is high time that pragmatism and a sense of purpose 
overtake the long-running inertia, innuendos, acrimony 
and distrust. Because of its uniqueness in this otherwise 
harmonious and flourishing hemisphere, the blockade 
serves  no  purpose;  it  is  an  anomaly  and,  indeed,  an 
anachronism that can no longer be justified on political 
or  moral  grounds,  or  in  the  context  of  international 
cooperation.
Finally, the OIC joins the overwhelming majority of 
Member States in acknowledging the negative impact 
that  the  blockade  has  had,  and  continues  to  have,  on 
the welfare and well-being of the people of Cuba, and 
in calling upon the Government of the United States of 
America to put an end to the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo against Cuba.
Member  States  of  the  OIC  will  again  this  year 
fully support the draft resolution against the embargo 
(A/68/L.6), and urge all other States to do so.
The President: Before giving the floor to the next 
speaker, I would like to propose that the list of speakers 
be closed in view of the large number of delegations on 
the list.
It was so decided.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  of  speaking  on 
behalf  of  the  member  States  of  Southern  Common 
Market (MERCOSUR), including the associated States 
of Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. 
I should also like to pay tribute to the presence of 
Mr. Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla, the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
MERCOSUR  was  founded  on  the  principles  of 
solidarity,  interdependence  and  peaceful  coexistence 
among  our  countries.  We  believe  that  tolerance  is 
the  foundation  that  has  made  possible  the  historic 
convergence on our continent of peoples from all corners 
of  the  world.  We  are  linked  to  our  Latin  American 
neighbours  by  the  desire  to  live  in  peace,  promote 
mutual  understanding,  and  defend  independence  and 
equality among States.
After 53 years of the policy of economic asphyxiation 
against  Cuba,  MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States 
continue  to  believe  that  the  embargo  violates  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  norms  of  international  law,  in  particular,  equality 
among States, non-interference in their internal affairs 
and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. The embargo 
measures are against the rights to peace, development 
and  the  security  of  sovereign  States.  Moreover,  those 
measures  contravene  the  norms  of  the  multilateral 
trade  system  and  the  very  nature  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization.
The embargo also violates the principles of justice 
and  human  rights,  and  causes  hardship  and  suffering 
among  the  entire  Cuba  people.  It  restricts  economic 
and  social  progress  and  prevents  the  achievement 
of  international  development  goals,  including  the 
Millennium Development Goals. We therefore regret the 
fact that the embargo imposed unilaterally on Cuba by 
the United States of America still remains unchanged, 
even  in  the  twenty-first  century.  An  increase  in  the 
restrictions on financial transactions between Cuba and 
third countries is a major hindrance to direct dialogue.
The  States  members  of  MERCOSUR  and 
associated  States  reject,  on  principle,  all  unilateral 
and  extraterritorial  measures.  We  believe  that  such 
measures cause irreparable damage to the well-being of 
people and prevent the process of regional integration. 
We  also  condemn  the  implementation  of  coercive 
unilateral  measures  contrary  to  the  principles  of  free 
trade. The blockade has been the main obstacle to the 
economic  and  social  development  of  Cuba  and  has 
hampered 
international  cooperation.  MERCOSUR 
and  its  associated  States  reiterate  their  unconditional 
support  for  draft  resolution  A/68/L.6,  reaffirming 
our  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  the  legitimate 
instrument for resolving conflicts, an effective way to 
promote  international  cooperation  and  understanding 
among peoples.
It  is  clear  that  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community reject the inhumane measures 
in question, which was made clear to us in 2012, when 
188 Member States voted in favour of the resolution.
Trying 
to  restrict 
the  ability  of 
the  Cuban 
Government  to  gain  access  to  what  it  needs  in  order 
to  ensure  health  care,  education  and  technological 
assistance and to provide food to its people only harms 
Cubans,  who  have  the  right  to  development.  The 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on Cuba is nothing other than an example of obsolete 
policies that have no place in today’s world. In adopting 
the  draft  resolution,  the  Assembly  will  prove  once 
again its undeniable political will to defend the ideals 
of freedom, solidarity and respect for sovereignty and 
international law.
6/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
I shall now speak in my national capacity.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reiterates 
its  firm  rejection  and  denunciation  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  on  the  brotherly  people 
of  Cuba.  Such  measures  are  a  flagrant  violation  of 
international law and particularly of the respect for State 
sovereignty, the right of a people to self-determination, 
non-intervention  in  Cuba’s  internal  affairs,  freedom 
of  navigation  and  trade  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes.  We  have  emphasized  that  such  unilateral 
coercive measures have an extraterritorial impact that 
affects  the  freedom  to  trade  enshrined  in  the  World 
Trade Organization and its constituent instruments and 
prevents third-party States from maintaining free and 
sovereign economic, financial and trade relations with 
the Republic of Cuba.
However,  the  United  States  Government’s  illegal 
blockade  of  Cuba  has  not  blocked  solidarity  among 
peoples,  particularly  the  cooperation  and  reciprocity 
that  exist  between  Venezuela  and  Cuba.  One  of  the 
beneficiaries  of  the  cooperation  between  Cuba  and 
Venezuela has been the pressing issue of our people’s 
welfare in the area of health care. I would like to recall 
that on 30 October 2000, the then-Presidents of Cuba 
and  Venezuela,  Fidel  Castro  and  Hugo  Chávez  Frías, 
signed a historically significant cooperative agreement 
on health, designed to improve Venezuela’s health-care 
system. Tomorrow is the thirteenth anniversary of that 
agreement, which has made a significant contribution 
to  raising  Venezuela’s  human  development  indicators 
and thus to the country’s ability to meet the Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015.
Attempting  to  use  an  embargo  to  diminish  the 
Government  of  Cuba’s  capacity  is  an  interventionist 
action  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  Government, 
but what is even more serious is the attempt to punish 
a people for choosing their own Government, an issue 
that runs contrary to the nature of the American people 
themselves, who surely do not support such a position.
Our  Bolivarian  Government  and  people  demand 
that the Government of the United States comply with 
the resolutions that the General Assembly has adopted 
since 1991 by an overwhelming majority, and move to 
immediately  and  definitively  lift  the  inhumane,  more 
than 50-year-long blockade, which constitutes a morally 
unacceptable  collective  punishment.  Removing  those 
unilateral  measures  would  represent  a  demonstration 
on  the  part  of  the  United  States  of  its  commitment 
to  multilateralism  based  on  respect  for  international 
law,  which  is  a  key  factor  in  strengthening  peace, 
cooperative  solidarity  and  sustainable  economic  and 
social development, including respect for human rights 
and understanding between peoples.
Finally, we enthusiastically support draft resolution 
A/67/L.6, which is no less than a cry on the part of the 
vast  majority  of  the  peoples  and  Governments  of  the 
world, asking the United States Government to abide by 
the standards of international law.
Mr. Bart (Saint Kitts and Nevis): I have the honour 
to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  14  member 
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
namely, Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, 
Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Jamaica, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines, 
Suriname,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis. 
CARICOM aligns itself with the statements made 
by the representatives of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China, of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement, and of Chile on behalf 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States.
Every  year  for  the  past  22  consecutive  years,  we 
have  gathered  in  this  setting  to  mingle  our  voices 
with the many others opposed to the imposition by the 
United States of its economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  For  53  years  the 
Cuban people have endured severe economic loss and 
stagnation, preventing the expansion of their country’s 
commercial ties to the rest of the world. The embargo 
has persisted for too long, in spite of the unambiguous 
and overwhelming objection of a majority of Member 
States,  as  demonstrated  by  the  annual  adoption  of  a 
draft resolution, such as that before us today (A/68/L.6).
Last  year,  188  Member  States  voted  in  favour  of 
the  resolution  67/4,  under  the  same  agenda  item.  The 
United Nations is made up of 193 Member States. That 
speaks  volumes  in  the  international  community.  The 
people of Cuba, however, continue to be stifled by the 
blockade. The social, economic and humanitarian costs 
of  the  embargo  are  becoming  more  and  more  acute. 
Cuba’s security and advance preparedness and the pace 
of its recovery from disasters are compromised by the 
embargo’s many direct and indirect effects. Indeed, it 
is in such times of national crisis that the fundamental 
injustice of the Cuban embargo is brought into sharpest 
13-53496
7/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
focus. When viewed in the light of the generosity and 
selfless assistance that Cuba has kindly accorded other 
States  in  times  of  need,  the  unilateral  application  of 
the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  seen  to  be  especially  ill 
conceived.  Such  events  underscore  the  need,  not  for 
intensification  of  punitive  measures,  but  rather  for 
greater  regional  and  international  cooperation  and 
solidarity.
As  a  bloc  of  States  that  are  small  in  size,  the 
Caribbean Community greatly values the strength that 
lies  in  its  collective  capacity  and  will,  and  maintains 
a firm stance on common principles that promote our 
shared objectives. Those principles include adherence 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  multilateralism, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the 
Caribbean  Community  has  remained  unstinting  in 
its solidarity with Cuba and in calling for an end to a 
embargo that runs counter to both the letter and the spirit 
of the Charter and serves no justifiable legal, political 
or  moral  purpose  within  contemporary  international 
relations.
such 
Despite 
significant 
challenges,  Cuba 
continues  to  show  itself  to  be  a  key  regional  and 
international  partner  and  actor.  CARICOM  member 
States, in keeping with our policy of mutual respect, of 
being good neighbours and of respect for the principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  continue  to 
have  good  relations  with  Cuba,  which  have  remained 
cordial  and  resilient  despite  the  continually  evolving 
hemispheric  and  international  geopolitical  landscape. 
Cuba maintains embassies in all independent countries 
of  the  Caribbean  Community  and  continues  to  prove 
itself to be an integral part of the Caribbean.
In 
and 
enjoyed  mutually 
that  context,  CARICOM  and  Cuba  have 
developed 
beneficial 
programmes  of  cooperation  and  trade  in  a  number 
of  key  areas,  including  physical  education,  sports, 
accounting,  the  natural  sciences,  the  humanities,  the 
economy, special education, and health and medicine. 
In that regard, CARICOM also profoundly appreciates 
Cuba’s  proposals  for  other  areas  of  cooperation  with 
the  Community,  such  as  the  treatment  of  physical 
disabilities, the arts, language training, agriculture and 
fisheries, water and infrastructure.
In the Caribbean alone, Cuba has built hospitals and 
clinics, provided medicines and furnished doctors, nurses 
and  other  health-care  professionals  —  contributions 
that  continue  to  be  received  and  remembered  with 
the utmost appreciation. Students from the Caribbean 
Community have benefited from university educations 
in  Cuba  free  of  charge,  and  Cuba  has  unselfishly 
extended  much  generosity  to  the  CARICOM  member 
State  of  Haiti,  following  the  devastating  earthquake 
there.  During  the  fourth  CARICOM-Cuba  Summit, 
held in December 2011 in Port-of-Spain, the heads of 
State and Government of CARICOM issued a statement 
strongly rejecting the imposition of the embargo and its 
extraterritorial effects and celebrating the outcome of 
the Summit in its reinforcement of the strong fraternal 
bonds between CARICOM and Cuba. That position is 
reiterated here today.
CARICOM  member  States  also  continue  to  value 
and enjoy long-established, warm and friendly relations 
with  the  United  States  of  America.  It  is,  therefore,  in 
that spirit that we urge its Government to heed the calls 
of  the  international  community  to  end  the  embargo. 
In  that  regard,  we  also  encourage  engagement  in  a 
constructive process of dialogue and the normalization 
of relations. We believe that that would be in the interest 
of  all  parties  and  would  significantly  contribute  to 
greater  peaceful  development  and  cooperation  within 
the Americas.
We  must  not  be  content  to  be  a  mere  symbol 
of  change.  Accordingly,  CARICOM  delegations 
fully  support  the  draft  resolution  before  the  General 
Assembly entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”  (A/68/L.6), 
and we will vote for its adoption.
Mr.  Adeeb  (India):  I  am  honoured  to  make 
a  statement  on  this  important  agenda  item.  India 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
the representative of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
This is the twenty-second successive year that the 
Assembly  has  been  deliberating  on  the  decades-old 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on  Cuba.  Every  one  of  those  years,  the  Assembly 
has  repeatedly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other 
forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that  hurt  the 
progress and prosperity of people around the world. The 
Assembly has also called upon all States to respect their 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and international law and to repeal and invalidate laws 
and  measures  that  have  extraterritorial  effects  on  the 
sovereignty  of  other  States  and  affect  the  legitimate 
8/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
interests of entities or persons under their jurisdiction 
and freedom of trade and navigation.
Despite the repeated calls of the General Assembly, 
its resolutions remain unimplemented, in contravention 
of world opinion. Such disregard of the collective will 
of  the  international  community  expressed  through 
the  United  Nations  undermines  the  credibility  of  this 
institution and weakens multilateralism. India strongly 
supports  the  categorical  rejection  by  the  international 
community  of  domestic  laws  with  extraterritorial 
impact.
The  embargo  on  Cuba  has  resulted  in  immense 
suffering  for  the  Cuban  people.  It  is  a  violation  of 
the right of a sovereign State to develop and to enjoy 
freedom  of  trade,  economy  and  navigation.  The 
embargo  has  denied  a  life  of  dignity  to  the  people  of 
Cuba  and  has  severely  undermined  the  progress  of 
that  country.  The  adverse  impact  of  the  embargo  has 
been made worse by the global economic and financial 
crisis and the rise in global food and energy prices. The 
embargo has also denied the Cuban economy access to 
markets, investments and technology, which are needed 
for rapid and inclusive development.
The  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean  has  noted  that  the  embargo  limits 
key policy options for the Cuban Government, and its 
efforts to update the economic model of the country are 
hampered  by  the  embargo.  The  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations has pointed out that 
the embargo has very negative implications for Cuba’s 
balance of trade and foreign exchange earnings and the 
country’s supply of food and agriculture products, and 
has a direct effect on the food security of the vulnerable 
segments of the population. The Office of the Resident 
Coordinator  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  Cuba 
has  further  brought  to  our  attention  the  fact  that  the 
embargo has a pervasive impact on the social, economic 
and environmental dimensions of human development 
in Cuba, affecting the most vulnerable socioeconomic 
groups  of  the  Cuban  population  in  particular.  Those 
instances are clear evidence of the immense suffering 
caused to the Cuban people as a result of the embargo.
We  believe  that  differences  between  countries 
should be solved through dialogue and negotiation in a 
spirit of mutual respect for each other’s independence 
and  sovereignty  and  of  non-interference  in  others’ 
internal affairs. It is of utmost importance that the spirit 
of multilateralism embodied by the United Nations be 
respected.
Before  concluding,  permit  me  to  reiterate  India’s 
opposition  to  unilateral  measures  that  are  taken  by 
countries  and  impinge  on  the  sovereignty  of  other 
countries, including attempts to extend the application 
of a country’s laws extraterritorially to other sovereign 
nations.  India  joins  other  nations  in  calling  for  an 
immediate  end  to  the  embargo  against  Cuba.  India 
supports  the  draft  resolution  sponsored  by  Cuba 
(A/68/L.6).
Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
On behalf of the Republic of Ecuador, I have the honour 
of welcoming the presence here today of the Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  sisterly  Republic  of  Cuba, 
Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, who will introduce, on 
behalf of his people and for the twenty-second time, the 
text of a draft resolution that is aimed only at achieving 
justice  and  is  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
Ecuador will, as always, vote in favour of the draft 
resolution,  because  it  is  a  clear  way  to  express  our 
solidarity and consistency in this matter. Furthermore, 
our  Constitution  condemns  interference  by  States  in 
the internal affairs of other States, whatever form such 
interference  takes.  We  therefore  openly  condemn  and 
reject the infamous Helms-Burton Act, which is indeed 
the basis for the immoral embargo against the sisterly 
Republic of Cuba. That unilateral action by the United 
States  generates  serious  consequences  with  broad 
impact and constitutes a clear violation of the principles 
of  sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention  and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, 
and  freedom  of  international  trade  and  navigation, 
enshrined in both the Charter of the United Nations and 
other international legal instruments.
It  is  disconcerting  that  within  this  Organization 
we should be talking about the post-2015 development 
programme  and  the  integration  of  the  pillars  of 
sustainable  development,  while  at  the  same  time  we 
are assessing the economic damage to Cuba’s trade and 
external sector caused by the embargo. It blockades the 
country’s population and clearly weakens all efforts to 
achieving the internationally agreed goals.
It seems only right that the resolutions of the United 
Nations  be  implemented.  We  have  voted  in  favour  of 
this  resolution  for  22  years.  Not  only  it  is  frustrating 
not to put an end to the infamous embargo, but we are 
demonstrating the inability of the Organization to bring 
to fruition processes that are undoubtedly in the interest 
13-53496
9/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
of  international  peace  and  security  —  fundamental 
precepts of the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
welcome His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and assure him of 
Egypt’s continued support and solidarity.
I  align  myself  with  the  statements  made  earlier 
by  the  representatives  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  77  and  China;  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement;  Ethiopia  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group; 
and Djibouti on behalf of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation.
Sixty-eight  years  ago,  almost  to  the  day,  on 
24  October  1945,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
entered into force. One of its main purposes is to develop 
friendly  relations  among  nations  based  on  respect  for 
the  principle  of  equal  rights  and  self-determination 
of peoples. For the past 53 years, the United States of 
America,  one  of  the  founders  of  the  United  Nations, 
has  been  violating  that  noble  purpose  by  imposing  a 
unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba  —  an  embargo  that 
is  morally  unjustifiable  and  legally  indefensible  and 
which runs counter to the norms of international law.
Last  year,  188  countries  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  67/4,  calling  for  an  immediate  end  to  the 
embargo.  Egypt  finds  it  troubling  that  despite  that 
quasi-unanimous rejection of the embargo, the screws 
are still being tightened against Cuba, in total disregard 
of  the  stance  of  the  international  community.  The 
damage caused by the embargo on Cuba is enormous. 
It affects crucial sectors of the country’s economy and 
the well-being of the Cuban people. The embargo also 
has negative repercussions on companies and citizens 
from third countries.
Despite  the  undue  economic  and  social  hardship, 
Cubans have continued to make developmental gains, 
most  notably  in  education,  health  care  and  gender 
equality.  We  salute  their  determination  and  resilience 
in the face of adversity.
The  American  Administration  has  recently  stated 
that  it  will  engage  with  Cuba.  Those  encouraging 
words have regrettably not been translated into action. 
The  punitive  measures  imposed  on  Cuba  persist,  and 
with  them  the  suffering  of  a  brave  nation  continues. 
The  United  States  cannot  indefinitely  ignore  the  will 
of the international community. It cannot forever turn a 
blind eye to what is right and what is wrong. That goes 
against  its  values,  history  and  tradition.  That  is  why 
today  we  once  again  send  this  message  to  the  United 
States:
(spoke in Spanish):
End the embargo now.
(spoke in English):
We hope that this time our call will not go unheard.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to start my statement 
by  welcoming  the  presence  among  us  of  Comrade 
Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Cuba.
The Plurinational State of Bolivia aligns itself with 
the  statements  made  earlier  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
and the Southern Common Market.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/68/116) 
once again makes apparent the global rejection of the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo that the 
United States of America has arbitrarily and unilaterally 
imposed against the Cuban people and against humanity. 
The embargo affects international cooperation. It affects 
health and food, education, culture and sports in Cuba. 
It affects Cuba’s foreign trade and foreign investment. 
It  has  banking  and  financial  consequences.  It  affects 
construction,  tourism,  industry,  communications,  the 
energy and mining sector, transportation, civil aviation 
and the sugar industry. The embargo is an example of 
the unilateralism with which the United States operates 
in the world. Despite the embargo, however, Cuba is an 
example  of  socioeconomic  development,  cooperation 
and solidarity.
Bolivia  comes  again  to  join  the  community  of 
nations  to  repudiate  most  energetically  the  criminal 
embargo,  which  has  become  one  of  the  deepest  open 
wounds  that  lacerate  the  spirit  of  the  whole  human 
family.  The  United  States  is  unilaterally  imposing 
an  unjust  embargo.  The  United  States  is  unilaterally 
imposing an illegitimate embargo. The United States is 
unilaterally imposing an immoral embargo. The United 
States is unilaterally imposing an illegal embargo. The 
United States is unilaterally imposing an extraterritorial 
embargo that violates the aims, principles and purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations. The United States 
is imposing an embargo that is damaging the principles 
of  sovereignty,  non-intervention  in  internal  affairs, 
and freedom of trade and navigation. It is imposing an 
10/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
embargo  that  seeks  to  undermine  the  Cuban  people’s 
right  to  self-determination  and  the  efforts  of  their 
Government to fight poverty and inequality.
I  have  here  with  me  all  the  resolutions  that  the 
General  Assembly  has  adopted  against  the  embargo. 
For  more  than  20  years,  one  resolution  after  another 
has  rejected  the  embargo  that  the  United  States  has 
unilaterally imposed on the Cuban people. Now is the 
time for the Assembly and the United Nations to ensure 
respect for the decisions that the Assembly has adopted.
From  this  rostrum,  the  President  of  the  United 
States described to the members of the Assembly what 
he called the “exceptional” nature of his country (see 
A/68/PV.5). If that country is exceptional, then the rest 
of us, the other members of the international community, 
by  some  twist  of  destiny  have  not  been  blessed  with 
such exceptionality. Not only is that speech dangerous; 
not only is it offensive; not only does it reveal criminal 
intent with regard to the Charter of the United Nations 
and the purposes of this Organization; it also shows, as 
President  Evo  Morales  has  stated,  the  arrogance  of  a 
Government that is against all peoples. The Government 
of  the  United  States  is  not  exceptional,  although  it  is 
unique.  It  is  responsible  for  this  genocidal  blockade, 
which is without parallel in the history of mankind. It is 
unique because it does not respect international law. It 
is unique because it is not interested in multilateralism. 
It is unique because it also acts with the most flagrant 
impunity.
Bolivia  once  again  decisively  supports  the  draft 
resolution that will be presented to the Assembly today 
(A/68/L.6).  We  also  would  like  to  thank  the  Cuban 
people for their wonderful solidarity, which has saved 
tens of thousands of lives in my country. Once again in 
this Assembly, the world calls for, the world requests, 
the world demands an end to the blockade against Cuba.
Allow me, Mr. President, to break with protocol for 
a moment and conclude my statement by saying: Viva 
Cuba!
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): Let me 
begin by welcoming the report of the Secretary-General 
on this agenda item (A/68/116).
The  Chinese  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement delivered earlier by the representative of Fiji 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
For 21 consecutive years, the General Assembly has 
adopted, by an overwhelming majority, resolutions on 
the need to end the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba. In them the Assembly urges all countries 
to abide by the Charter of the United Nations and the 
norms of international law and to repeal or invalidate 
any  laws  or  measures  that  are  of  an  extraterritorial 
nature,  that  infringe  upon  the  sovereignty  of  another 
State or the legitimate rights and interests of the entities 
and individuals under the jurisdiction of that State, and 
that  have  an  adverse  impact  on  freedom  of  trade  and 
navigation.
Regrettably, however, those resolutions have never 
been  effectively  implemented,  and  the  United  States 
continues  to  impose  an  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  That  has  inflicted 
enormous economic and financial losses on Cuba. The 
data shows that, taking into account the depreciation of 
the dollar against gold in the international markets, by 
April 2013, the embargo had resulted in direct economic 
losses to Cuba in the amount of $1,157,327,000,000.
The embargo has led to shortages of supplies and 
seriously  undermined  the  Cuban  economy,  creating 
tremendous  obstacles  to  Cuba’s  economic  and  social 
development.  The  embargo  has  caused  enormous 
suffering for the Cuban people and has severely impeded 
their  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty,  promote  economic 
and  social  development  and  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  has  violated  the  basic  human 
rights of the Cuban people to food, health and education 
and their right to survival and development. It has not 
only  caused  major  setbacks  for  the  Cuban  economy, 
but  also  affected  the  normal  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  interactions  between  Cuba  and  other 
countries,  thereby  undermining 
the  interests  and 
sovereignty of third countries.
The embargo against Cuba is strongly opposed by 
the majority of Member States, as it is a blatant violation 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions. The call of the international community is 
getting  louder  and  louder,  demanding  that  the  United 
States Government change its policy towards Cuba, lift 
the embargo and normalize its relations with Cuba. That 
fact has been fully reflected in the Secretary-General’s 
report this year.
The  Chinese  Government  has  always  advocated 
that  countries  develop  mutual  relations  on  the  basis 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  while 
respecting the right of other countries to independently 
13-53496
11/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
In 
choose their own social system and development path. 
China  is  opposed  to  any  unilateral  sanctions  against 
other countries by military, political, economic or other 
means.  Meanwhile,  China  has  strictly  followed  and 
implemented the relevant Assembly resolutions. China 
and  Cuba  have  maintained  normal  economic,  trade 
and  personnel  exchanges.  Our  friendly  and  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  in  various  fields  has  been 
growing. This is what our two peoples want, and it is in 
the interest of Cuba’s economic and social development.
today’s  world,  dialogue,  exchanges  and 
harmonious  coexistence  represent  the  mainstream  of 
international relations. Exchanges and cooperation on 
an  equal  footing  among  countries  have  become  the 
dominant trend. The best way to settle differences and 
disputes  is  dialogue  on  an  equal  footing  and  friendly 
consultation.  China  hopes  that  the  United  States  will 
act  according  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  and  the  relevant  Assembly  resolutions  and 
terminate its embargo against Cuba as soon as possible. 
China  also  hopes  for  a  steady  improvement  of  the 
United  States-Cuba  relationship,  which  would  in  turn 
advance  stability  and  development  in  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean region.
China  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  submitted  by  Cuba  under  this  agenda  item 
(A/68/L.6).
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): Let me begin by warmly 
welcoming  Minister  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla  and 
assuring  him  of  Indonesia’s  unwavering  support  for 
ending the embargo against Cuba.
The  delegation  of  Indonesia  associates  itself  with 
the  statements  made  earlier  by  the  representatives  of 
Fiji and the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China and the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation, respectively.
The  General  Assembly,  as  the  highest  political 
forum of the United Nations, has consistently opposed 
the unilateral policy imposed by the United States on 
Cuba. The majority of Member States have expressed 
their  concern  about  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba and the adverse effects 
of  such  measures  on  the  Cuban  people.  While  the 
Cuban people have endured the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo valiantly for 52 years, that has 
come at a forbidding cost.
The continued imposition of that embargo violates 
the principles of the sovereign equality of all Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  of  non-intervention  and 
non-interference  in  one  another’s  domestic  affairs.  It 
violates  international  humanitarian  law,  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms  and  principles 
governing peaceful relations among States.
The  Charter  is  clear  on  the  need  for  nations  to 
develop  friendly  relations  among  themselves.  It  is 
equally  emphatic  about  the  importance  of  nations 
refraining  from  actions  that  threaten  the  political 
independence  of  others  or  lead  to  interventions  in 
matters  that  are  essentially  within  a  State’s  domestic 
jurisdiction.
Unfortunately, the sanctions have also had an indirect 
impact on countries with economic and commercial ties 
to Cuba and thus encroach on the sovereignty of other 
States  and  their  national  jurisdictions.  The  embargo 
not only creates political complications, it also causes 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  hardships  that, 
on humanitarian grounds, cannot be justified. That is 
a great burden for a developing country whose people 
would  benefit  tremendously  from  cooperation  rather 
than confrontation. The embargo has caused hardships 
for the people of Cuba, particularly vulnerable groups. 
Against  that  backdrop,  the  General  Assembly  must 
once  again  reaffirm  its  position  by  supporting  draft 
resolution A/68/L.6.
The  international  community  is  quite  confident 
that engagement will do more than isolation to advance 
the noble causes that all States Members of the United 
Nations  subscribe  to.  Dialogue  has  always  been  a 
constructive avenue for dissolving tensions. The time is 
ripe for relations between the two principal parties to be 
transformed through constructive engagement. Lifting 
the embargo would be in keeping with the spirit of the 
times. It would also demonstrate unambiguous respect 
for  the  principle  of  non-intervention,  as  embodied  in 
the  Charter  and  in  international  law.  While  it  is  true 
that some small, meaningful changes have occurred in 
recent times, such as the easing of restrictions on travel 
to Cuba and the removal of obstacles to the transfer of 
remittances, the preferable outcome is for the embargo 
to be lifted immediately. We all hope to see the tensions 
between  the  two  countries  resolved  and  harmonious, 
peaceful coexistence permeating their relations.
In an international climate marked by cooperation, 
the  embargo  has  become  an  anachronistic  policy. 
Indonesia  has  repeatedly  voted  in  favour  of  lifting 
the  embargo  on  Cuba,  as  an  expression  of  our  long-
standing and irrevocable commitment to the principles 
12/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
and  purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Indonesia  rejects  the  use  of  any  unilateral 
measures to exert pressure on States. For that reason, it 
has never promulgated or applied any laws of the type 
referred  to  in  the  draft  resolution.  We  do  not  support 
or  apply  any  laws  and  policies  of  an  extraterritorial 
nature, since that would interfere with others’ domestic 
affairs  as  well  as  with  freedom  of  international  trade 
and navigation.
Indonesia urges the renunciation of the application 
of  laws  and  measures  of  an  extraterritorial  nature 
that  affect  the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  the  lawful 
interests of their subjects or other persons under their 
jurisdiction, and freedom of trade and navigation.
Finally,  Indonesia  supports  and  calls  for  the 
immediate cessation of such an embargo.
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to welcome His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and to 
convey  through  him  the  greetings  of  the  people  and 
leadership  of  Algeria  to  the  people  and  leadership  of 
Cuba.
Algeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement; Fiji on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China; Ethiopia on behalf of the Group of African 
States;  and  Djibouti  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation.
Algeria  would  like  to  reiterate  its  deep  concern 
about  the  continuation  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  unilaterally  imposed  for  more 
than five decades now by the United States of America 
against Cuba. Annually, for many consecutive years, the 
members of the General Assembly have adopted, almost 
unanimously, a resolution calling for the lifting of the 
embargo against Cuba. That reflects the international 
community’s profound determination to put an end to 
a situation that has lasted far too long. Through those 
resolutions, the international community has continued 
to reaffirm that Cuba, like all other States Members of 
the  United  Nations,  has  the  right  to  freedom  of  trade 
and navigation and to expand trade with its economic 
partners.
In  accordance  with  the  principles  of  its  foreign 
policy, Algeria has always condemned the extraterritorial 
application of laws and all forms of coercive economic 
and trade measures, such as this economic, commercial 
and financial embargo against Cuba, which contradicts 
international  law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. Every Member State 
should respect the principles of the Charter, including, 
in particular, the sovereign equality of States, territorial 
integrity, and non-intervention and non-interference in 
the internal affairs of any other State.
It is a fact that the blockade has a negative effect 
on the well-being of the Cuban people on a daily basis 
and causes huge material losses and economic damage 
to  Cuba.  Those  consequences  have  been  exacerbated 
by the adverse effects of the ongoing global economic 
and financial crisis, which has seriously compromised 
Cuba’s  development  efforts.  This 
is  highlighted 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/68/116), 
based  on  information  provided  by  more  than  100 
Governments  and  by  a  significant  number  of  entities 
and agencies of the United Nations system concerning 
the  implementation  of  last  year’s  resolution  67/4. 
The  embargo  frustrates  efforts  to  achieve  all  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  all-important  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and  negatively  affects  South-South  cooperation  and 
international cooperation generally.
Here  it  is  important  to  recall  the  long-standing 
positions of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group 
of 77 and China on the issue. Accordingly, Algeria will 
vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/68/L.6,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
Mr.  Imakando  (Zambia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address the Assembly on the matter relating to the draft 
resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo on Cuba (A/68/L.6).
My delegation wishes to align this statement with 
those  delivered  earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Fiji 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China;  Ethiopia  on 
behalf of the African Group; and Iran on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
Zambia  is  concerned  that  after  more  than  two 
decades,  the  General  Assembly  is  still  debating  an 
agenda  item  on  which  there  has  been  overwhelming 
consensus.  This  is  so  because,  despite  the  clear 
message from the United Nations, the United States has 
maintained  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba.  Unless  immediate  efforts  are 
undertaken to restore normalcy in economic relations, 
13-53496
13/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
history will judge all of us in the United Nations family 
rather harshly.
The Cold War is long over, and in its place nations 
have been seeking to consolidate the era of international 
cooperation,  with  the  United  Nations  taking  centre 
stage.  My  delegation  therefore  urges  that  we  not  lose 
this  opportunity  for  all-inclusive  global  prosperity 
and  for  securing  the  peaceful  coexistence  of  future 
generations.
My  delegation  wishes  further  to  stress  that  the 
United  States  embargo  against  the  people  of  Cuba 
cannot  have  a  place  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
Instead, the world should rightly focus its attention on 
enhancing the livelihoods of all people in all nations, 
Cuba  included.  Indeed,  the  Cuban  nation  should  be 
helped  to  consolidate  its  growth  and  development  in 
a  manner  that  allows  for  the  free  participation  of  all 
citizens.  In  other  words,  the  unilateral  embargo  has 
no role when we are setting the stage for the post-2015 
development  agenda.  It  is  on  this  score  that  we  stand 
with the global chorus for the unconditional lifting of 
the embargo against Cuba.
As  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
Zambia has no doubt that the time is ripe for Cuba and 
the  United  States  to  free  themselves  from  a  stand-off 
dating from a long-gone era, when the majority of their 
current  citizens  had  not  even  been  born.  The  present 
generations  know  little  of  the  cause  of  the  age-old 
impasse,  hence  we  must  give  them  a  chance  to  enjoy 
normalcy. We therefore reiterate once again our call on 
the United States to lift the embargo.
During  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Zambia  was  one  of  the  188  countries  that 
supported  resolution  67/4.  Our  stance  is  rooted  in 
principle, and we wish to use this occasion to re-state 
our  solidarity  with  the  Cuban  people.  We  remain 
concerned  that  their  development  continues  to  be 
unnecessarily  impeded  to  this  day.  That  is  in  direct 
contradiction of the spirit of international cooperation 
that we have all been aspiring towards. For this reason, 
my delegation is confident that the Assembly will once 
again deliver a clear message of its support, which His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, will take back to the Cuban 
people.
Mr. Le Hoai Trung (Viet Nam) (spoke in French): 
As this is the first time I have taken the floor at this 
session, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your 
election to serve as President of the General Assembly. 
I  am  convinced  that  with  your  excellent  skill  and 
experience, you will guide this session of the Assembly 
most successfully.
We welcome His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representatives  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, and of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China.
The  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  have 
held  substantive  and  serious  discussions,  at  many 
successive sessions, on the absolute necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  against  the  Republic 
of  Cuba.  Their  common  view  is  that  this  issue  has 
had  significant  and  wide-reaching  implications  for 
international relations and the fundamental principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. The great majority 
of Member States have expressed their staunch protest 
against this embargo and have urgently called for it to 
be brought to an end.
Viet Nam will once again join with the international 
community  to  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.6.
(spoke in English)
In so doing, Viet Nam entirely shares the view that the 
embargo unilaterally imposed by the United States is at 
variance with the purposes of the United Nations and 
constitutes a violation of the fundamental principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations and of international 
law. These include sovereign equality, non-interference 
in  internal  affairs,  the  right  of  self-determination, 
peaceful coexistence and freedom of trade. This issue 
is very much a case about upholding the rule of law at 
the international level.
We would again like to stress in particular the need 
for  dialogue  and  negotiations  to  settle  differences  or 
disputes among States. This has proven to be essential 
to  the  strengthening  of  peace  and  security  in  Latin 
America and the Caribbean. It is also essential for peace, 
security  and  normal  international  interactions  in  all 
other parts of the world, and for enhancing international 
cooperation as the international community is facing so 
many  challenges.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  call 
and  proposal  by  the  Government  of  Cuba  to  discuss 
14/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
with  the  United  States  their  differences  and  issues  of 
mutual interest.
trade and financial embargoes that have been adopted 
unilaterally.
The  embargo  has  obviously  caused  enormous 
damage to the socioeconomic development of Cuba and 
the life of the country’s people, especially women and 
children.  For  all  the  many  updates  and  reports  about 
negative  impact  of  the  embargo,  the  human  suffering 
is  undoubtedly  immeasurable.  The  embargo  is  an 
encroachment  on  human  rights.  It  is  also  one  of  the 
obstacles  that  need  to  be  removed  to  the  attainment 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  reduction 
of  poverty  and 
the  advancement  of  sustainable 
development in the post-2015 period. It is very pertinent 
to the theme of this session of the General Assembly, 
“The post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage”. 
Viet  Nam  therefore  calls  on  the  United  States,  in 
implementation of relevant United Nations resolutions, 
to lift the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against Cuba.
My  delegation  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  reiterate  Viet  Nam’s  support  for  the  right  of  the 
people  of  Cuba  to  choose  their  path  of  development. 
We  appreciate  the  significant  achievements  that  the 
Government  and  people  of  Cuba  have  made  in  many 
areas, in spite of the numerous challenges. We welcome 
their active contribution to international cooperation in 
the  region  and  in  other  parts  of  the  world  to  promote 
friendly relations among countries and in the resolution 
of issues related to socioeconomic development.
Viet  Nam  fully  subscribes  to  the  contents  of  the 
draft  resolution  before  us  and  again  urges  its  full 
implementation after its adoption.
Mr.  Patriota  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  too 
should like to greet Minister Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla 
of Cuba, who is here among us today. 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Gropu  of  77  and  China,  of  Chile  on  behalf  of  the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
and of Venezuela on behalf of the Southern Common 
Market.
Brazil 
reiterates 
to 
its 
firm  opposition 
the 
economic,  trade  and  financial  embargo  imposed  on 
Cuba,  as  well  as  to  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
domestic  laws  and  discriminatory  trade  practices. 
Brazil urges Governments that have not complied with 
resolution  67/4  to  take  immediate  measures  to  put  an 
end  to  discriminatory  trade  practices  and  economic, 
As  a  founding  nation  of  the  Organization,  which 
was  born  out  of  the  rubble  and  bloody  remnants  of 
war  to  celebrate  a  culture  of  peace,  we  call  on  all 
Governments to demonstrate their full commitment to 
international law, diplomacy, the peaceful settlement of 
disputes,  cooperation  in  the  economic  and  trade  area 
and the primacy of the principles and purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Resolution 67/4 calls for an immediate end to the 
adoption  and  implementation  of  unilateral  measures 
that  have  an  adverse  effect  on  other  nations  and 
people.  The  extraterritorial  nature  of  such  measures 
is  a  flagrant  contravention  of  the  basic  principles  of 
international law, particularly sovereignty and freedom 
of  trade  and  navigation.  Such  action  is  unacceptable, 
particularly when it has an impact on humanitarian aid, 
such  as  when  the  Brazilian  contribution  of  $100,000 
to the Cuban victims of Hurricane Sandy was blocked 
by the United States authorities last year. The transfer 
of funds from the Bank of Brazil branch in Miami to 
a bank in Geneva is still awaiting clearance from the 
Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States 
Department of the Treasury.
Thus, apart from the illegal blockade, which runs 
counter  to  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  embargo  also  affects  human  rights,  the 
rights of refugees and the rights of women and children, 
who  should,  first  and  foremost,  be  given  priority  as 
the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  among  us.  Brazil 
commends Cuba for updating its economic model and 
supports it in its domestic and foreign policies. Cuba’s 
progress  is  being  impeded  by  the  economic  embargo, 
which has afflicted its people for decades.
The  Brazilian  Government  will  continue  not 
only  to  oppose  the  economic,  financial  and  trade 
embargo against Cuba, but also to foster friendlier and 
warmer  political  and  economic  relations  as  a  gesture 
from  Brazil  in  solidarity  with  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean.  We  believe  that  there  is  no  America 
without  the  full  participation  of  Cuba  in  all  areas  of 
international  relations.  Today,  there  is  consensus 
among  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  countries 
regarding the impossibility of holding future American 
summits without Cuba being present. Calls for Cuba’s 
full freedom and independence have always been made 
by Latin America and the Caribbean as a whole. Today, 
that is true more than ever before.
13-53496
15/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
Mr.  Martins  (Angola):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
extending  a  warm  welcome  to  His  Excellency  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  for 
Cuba.  I  wish  him  a  very  fruitful  stay  at  the  United 
Nations, a place he knows well. 
The  Republic  of  Angola  associates  itself  with  the 
statements made by the representatives of Ethiopia on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group,  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, and of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The Republic of Angola reaffirms its commitment to 
putting an immediate end to the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba, and with that in mind, we will 
vote in favour of draft resolution A/68/L.6, which we 
hope will be adopted by a majority during this meeting 
and implemented thereafter.
Angola  joins  the 
international  community  in 
condemning  the  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  has 
lasted  more  than  half  a  century  and  which  flagrantly 
violates  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Cuban  people. 
It  is  unacceptable  that  in  the  twenty-first  century, 
one  country’s  unilateral  decision  can  deprive  another 
country  and  its  people  of  their  right  to  enjoy  their 
fundamental  freedoms  and  to  exercise  freely  their 
political, economic or commercial rights.
the  General  Assembly’s 
Angola  regrets  the  continuation  of  the  embargo, 
even  after 
successive 
resolutions requesting all member States, in accordance 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  repeal  all 
laws,  regulations  and  extraterritorial  measures  that 
undermine  the  sovereignty  of  States,  and  the  rights 
and  legitimate  interests  of  entities  and  persons  under 
the  jurisdiction  of  such  States  and  that  have  negative 
impact on their freedom and their trade and navigation 
rights.
According  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/68/166),  there  is  no  record  of  measures  by  the 
Government of the United States that would contribute 
to ending the embargo against Cuba, even though the 
restrictions it imposes are contrary to the purposes of the 
Charter and constitute a violation of international law. 
In that sense, what is happening in Cuba is a flagrant 
violation of the rights to peace and development and to 
safeguarding the sovereignty of States.
The ban goes beyond the commercial and financial 
relations  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba;  it  has 
implications  that  severely  penalize  the  Cuban  people, 
since  it  prevents  the  implementation  of  economic 
programmes  aimed  at  the  socioeconomic  stability  of 
the country as well as its global integration.
Angola reaffirms its commitment to international 
law, and from that perspective, it supports decisions that 
contribute to the elimination of all coercive unilateral 
economic  measures  used  as  a  means  of  political 
persuasion against any sovereign State.
We call on the international community to continue 
its  efforts  to  deepen  its  commitment  to  promoting  a 
constructive dialogue between the two countries for a 
permanent solution to the problem and to finding a path 
of normalization in their relations. After more than half 
a century, the embargo on Cuba is a clear demonstration 
of a lack of political will, and it is also anachronistic.
To  conclude,  we  appeal  to  the  United  States  to 
reconsider  its  unilateral  position,  whose  negative 
impact on the life of the Cuban people shows clear signs 
of inhumanity.
Mr. Govender (South Africa): South Africa aligns 
itself with the statements made by the representatives 
of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  of 
Ethiopia  on  behalf  of  the  Africa  Group  and  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 
My  delegation  also  extends  greetings  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, who is present here today.
South  Africa  acknowledges  the  report  of  the 
(A/68/116),  which  emphasizes, 
Secretary-General 
among  other  principles,  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States,  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  their 
internal affairs and the freedom of international trade 
and  navigation,  which  are  also  enshrined  in  many 
international legal instruments.
Cuba  is  still  in  the  clutches  of  the  unilateral 
economic, commercial and financial embargo that was 
imposed on it by the United States of America over five 
decades  ago,  despite  the  fact  that  the  Assembly  has 
been seized with the matter since its forty-sixth session, 
which  was  22  years  ago.  The  continued  unilateral 
embargo imposed on Cuba constitutes clear disregard 
for  international  law.  It  is  also  a  flagrant  violation  of 
the  Cuban  people’s  right  to  development,  peace  and 
security.  Furthermore,  the  embargo  runs  contrary  to 
the  principles,  purposes  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  especially  the  principles  of  the 
16/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
sovereign equality of States and of non-intervention in 
the domestic affairs of Member States.
that has suffocated their country’s livelihood for over 
50 years now.
In  essence,  however,  what  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  is  an 
attempt  to  prevent  Cuba  from  freely  deciding  on  its 
own  political  and  economic  system.  After  more  than 
50 years of the embargo, Cuba’s economic, social and 
overall development has been stunted. Misguided as it 
is,  the  embargo  is  one  of  the  major  causes  of  Cuba’s 
economic  problems  and  the  main  obstacle  to  its 
economic  and  social  development.  The  embargo  has 
unfortunately  inhibited  every  aspect  of  Cuba’s  trade, 
including free access to humanitarian materials such as 
food and medicines.
There is no legitimate or moral reason to maintain 
the  embargo.  We  therefore  call  for  the  embargo  to  be 
lifted urgently. Cuba’s prospects for economic recovery 
and social development will remain elusive unless the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo is lifted. 
What  is  also  clear  is  that  as  long  as  the  status  quo 
persists,  there  are  very  limited  prospects  for  Cuba  to 
benefit in a meaningful way from the United Nations-
driven post-2015 development agenda.
What  exacerbates  the  matter  even  further  is  that 
the  punitive  measures  of  the  economic  embargo  are 
applied  extraterritorially.  Companies,  which  naturally 
migrate to larger and more lucrative markets, shy away 
from  conducting  business  or  having  trade  relations 
with Cuba. That is due to the fear of the economic and 
political repercussions that are imposed against parties 
who are alleged to have violated the blockade. Given that 
fact, we can say that the prospects for Cuba’s economic 
development are stifled owing to the continued lack of 
access to foreign direct investment, large-scale tourism 
and  even  foreign  banking  institutions.  Despite  such 
challenges,  the  Cuban  people  have  always  remained 
true  to  the  principle  of  solidarity,  even  beyond  their 
own borders. We know this because we have benefited 
from their solidarity.
It  is  for  those  reasons  that  South  Africa  has 
always voted in favour of the draft resolutions on the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba  and  will  always  be  committed 
to the principles, purpose and spirit of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  Furthermore,  we  support  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.6  because  it  is  the  people  of  Cuba 
themselves  —  women,  children,  the  elderly  and  the 
vulnerable  —  who  bear  the  brunt  of  the  stranglehold 
The President: I now give the floor to the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, His Excellency Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
introduce  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.6.
to 
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The Department of Commerce of the United States has 
laid out the following conditions that must be met for a 
license to be issued authorizing any equipment, device 
or medicine to be supplied to Havana’s William Soler 
Children’s  Heart  Centre:  the  items  in  question  must 
be  used  exclusively  to  treat  Cuban  patients;  the  final 
destination of the items must be monitored; they must 
not be used to commit acts of torture or human rights 
violations; and they must not be used in biotechnological 
production processes or re-exported. Appendix E of the 
license  questionnaire  requires  copious  documentation 
to  ensure  that  the  Heart  Centre  is  in  no  way  linked 
to  the  production  of  chemical  or  biological  weapons, 
missile technologies or nuclear weapons.
Dozens  of  prestigious  specialists,  at  least  five 
renowned  United  States  hospitals  and  many  others 
around  the  world  know  the  Cuban  Centre  very  well 
and  know  that  it  specializes  in  paediatric  cardiology 
and cardiological surgery. Since 2010, it has performed 
heart  surgery  on  1,101  children  and  cared  for  tens 
of  thousands  of  little  patients.  However,  the  Heart 
Centre continues to be classified by the Department of 
Commerce as a “denied” hospital.
Consequently,  Cuban  boys  and  girls  cannot  be 
treated with an Amplatzer device, which is used to cure 
inter-atrial communication problems or close vascular 
short-circuits inside the heart’s arterial pathways. Nor 
can  they  be  treated  with  devices  commonly  used  for 
catheterization  or  receive  better  quality,  cutting-edge 
anti-arrhythmic and antibiotic drugs for the treatment 
of heart failure. As a result, dozens of minors have had 
to undergo thoracic surgeries that could have otherwise 
been  avoided.  Another  102  children  suffering  from 
pulmonary  hypertension  could  not  be  treated  with 
nitric oxide, which is one of the best therapeutic drugs 
available.
Likewise,  the  Cardiovascular  Surgery  Institute 
lacks the spare parts, opaque dyes and complex software 
necessary to perform echocardiograms. The Frank País 
Orthopaedic Hospital cannot replace its Sopha gamma 
camera,  which  is  required  for  diagnosing  malignant 
13-53496
17/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
tumours and bone and joint infections. The Pedro Kouri 
Institute of Tropical Medicine is not allowed to purchase 
Kaletra,  an  anti-viral  oral  solution  for  children,  since 
it  has  no  license  from  the  Treasury  Department  to 
import it. That medicine inhibits the replication of the 
HIV virus in children who are born with HIV, boosts 
their immunological system and prevents opportunistic 
diseases.
The  human  suffering  caused  by  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United States against Cuba is incalculable. It imposes 
hardship  and  is  a  massive,  flagrant  and  systematic 
violation of human rights. 76 per cent of Cubans have 
lived  under  its  devastating  effects  their  entire  lives. 
The blockade has been classified as an act of genocide 
under  article  II  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention 
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide and an act 
of economic warfare under the Declaration concerning 
the Laws of Naval War adopted in 1909.
to 
the 
The  State  Department  lies  about  and  manipulates 
the  data  on  remittances  sent  by  émigrés  and  creates 
obstacles 
transfer  of  small  donations  by 
non-governmental  organizations,  with  the  purpose  of 
portraying its Government as a donor of humanitarian 
assistance to our nation. A memorandum from the then 
United  States  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  State, 
Lester  Mallory,  dated  6  April  1960  and  declassified 
30 years later, states:
“The  majority  of  Cubans  support  Castro  ... 
There is no effective political opposition ... The only 
foreseeable  means  of  alienating  internal  support 
is  through  disenchantment  and  disaffection  based 
on economic dissatisfaction and hardship ... Every 
possible  means  should  be  undertaken  promptly 
to  weaken  the  economic  life  [of  Cuba],  denying 
money  and  supplies  ...  to  decrease  monetary  and 
real wages, to bring about hunger, desperation and 
the overthrow of the Government”.
It is barbaric and incredible that 53 years later, the same 
policy still prevails.
The  economic  damage 
that  has  accumulated 
after  half  a  century  of  the  blockade  amounts  to 
$1,126  billion  —  more  than  $1  trillion.  Nevertheless, 
we have achieved undeniable results in the eradication 
of  hunger  and  poverty  and  with  health  and  education 
indicators that are renowned worldwide, as well as in 
promoting  gender  equality,  equality  in  freedom  and 
well-being,  social  consensus,  citizens’  democratic 
participation  in  Government  decisions,  reversals  of 
environmental  deterioration  and 
the  development 
of  international  cooperation  with  100  third-world 
countries. How much more could we have done without 
that  colossal  obstacle  to  our  development  and  the 
enormous human and financial costs it has imposed on 
us?
Under  President  Obama’s  Administration 
the 
blockade has grown even more severe, particularly in 
the financial sector. Historically, the United States has 
used the enormous technological power of its recently 
denounced massive global espionage system to follow 
and  monitor  our  financial  transactions  and  economic 
relations.  From  January  2009  to  September  2013,  the 
fines imposed on 30 North American and foreign entities 
for their relations with Cuba and other countries have 
amounted  to  more  than  $2.446  billion.  In  December 
2012, for the same reason, the British bank HSBC and 
the  Japanese  bank  Tokyo-Mitsubishi  UFJ  were  fined 
$375 million and $8.6 million, respectively. In March 
2013, the Reuters press agency suspended its banking 
and financial information services. The economic siege 
has been ramped up, and its impact can be seen in the 
scarcities  and  difficulties  that  Cuban  families  suffer 
from in every aspect of their lives.
The United States is not a trading partner of Cuba, 
despite  what  has  been  shamelessly  asserted  by  its 
representatives, because a State to which it is impossible 
to export products or from which it is impossible to buy 
services  and  products  cannot  be  said  to  be  a  trading 
partner.  Nor  can  a  State  where  United  States  dollars 
cannot be used in transactions, or whose subsidiaries in 
third-party countries are forbidden to buy foodstuffs or 
medicines, owing to the Torricelli Act, which also bans 
the entry into United States ports for 180 days of any 
ship in the world that has docked at our island; or a State 
that  prevents  other  nations  from  selling  to  Cuba  any 
merchandise containing more than 10 per cent of United 
States  components  or  from  exporting  to  the  United 
States any product containing Cuban raw materials. No 
State can be a trading partner when it implements the 
Helms-Burton Act, which expanded the extraterritorial 
scope of the blockade and comprehensively codified the 
regime change and the eventual intervention in Cuba. 
No State can be a trading partner when it invokes the 
Trade with the Enemy Act of 1917, which applies only 
in war situations and is enforced only for Cuba.
Our  small  island  poses  no  threat  to  the  national 
security of the super-Power. Why, then, can Americans 
18/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
losing  opportunities?  Why 
not  have  access  to  top-quality  Cuban  products  or 
Cuban  next-generation  medicines?  Why  are  their 
businesspeople 
are 
businesses  not  being  opened  that  could  create  jobs  in 
a  time  of  crisis?  Why  can  American  companies  not 
have  access  to  the  new  Mariel  special  development 
zone? The sanctions remain intact and are being fully 
implemented. That is not a bilateral issue. The blockade 
is  aggressively  extraterritorial  and  is  a  violation  of 
international law that damages the sovereignty of every 
State. It transgresses the international rules that govern 
trade and the freedom of navigation. The cruel inclusion 
of  medicines  and  foodstuffs  violates  international 
humanitarian law. It is a hostile and unilateral act that 
should cease unilaterally.
The blockade is the chief obstacle to broader access 
to  the  Internet  and  information  and  communication 
technologies, since it restricts our island’s bandwidth, 
increases  the  cost  of  connectivity  and  prevents  our 
connecting to nearby submarine cables. The sanctions 
seriously  restrict  contacts  between  both  peoples, 
and  those  that  are  authorized  are  subject  to  various 
conditions and are designed to produce regime change 
and  internal  destabilization.  Despite  the  fact  that 
Washington,  D.C.,  has  very  selectively  authorized 
some cultural, academic and scientific exchanges, they 
are  still  severely  restricted,  while  many  projects  of 
that kind have not materialized, owing to the denial of 
licences, visas and other bureaucratic authorizations. 
Cuba is the only destination on the planet forbidden 
to United States citizens. It is a relevant constitutional 
issue in that American citizens are not equal before the 
law in such matters, according to whether or not they 
are of Cuban origin. Cuba’s national baseball team has 
not  been  able  to  collect  the  money  owed  to  it  for  its 
participation  in  the  second  and  third  World  Baseball 
Classics,  held  in  2009  and  2013.  The  visas  of  300 
United  States  runners  who  intended  to  participate  in 
the 2012 Marabana marathon were denied. More than 
300  musicians  who  participated  in  dozens  of  artistic 
projects  in  the  United  States  have  not  been  able  to 
receive their payments.
Cuban emigration is suffering from discriminatory 
measures.  The  response  to  the  reform  of  Cuba’s 
migration  law  in  January  has  been  the  continued 
enforcement of the Cuban Adjustment Act and the “wet 
foot/dry  foot”  policy,  which  encourages  illegal  and 
unsafe emigration and human trafficking, resulting in 
the loss of human lives.
for 
intended 
Curiously,  the  United  States  Office  of  Foreign 
Assets  Control  confiscated  the  funds  of  a  British 
non-governmental  organization 
the 
purchase and distribution in the United Kingdom of a 
book by a European author entitled The Economic War 
Against  Cuba,  published  by  Monthly  Review  Press, 
based in New York. The funds of the Latin American 
Council of Churches that were intended to cover the costs 
of its sixth General Assembly in Havana were withheld 
for  three  months.  The  humanitarian  cooperation  that 
we extend to dozens of countries, primarily in the areas 
of medicine and education, is also subject to repression. 
The blockade is an uncivilized act that prevents the 
free circulation of persons, the free flow of information, 
the exchange of ideas and the development of cultural, 
sporting and scientific relations.
The  United  States  policy  against  Cuba  suffers 
from  absolute  international  isolation  and  disrepute.  It 
lacks all ethical or legal grounds. That has been shown 
by  the  more  than  180  votes  in  the  General  Assembly, 
the statements made by dozens of Heads of State and 
Government  in  the  general  debate  and  the  opinions 
international 
contributed  by  Member  States  and 
organizations 
report 
(A/68/116).
the  Secretary-General’s 
to 
President  Obama  could  make  use  of  his  ample 
constitutional  powers,  without  going  to  Congress,  to 
generate  a  dynamic  that  would  change  the  situation. 
After  all,  Americans  elected  him  to  bring  about 
change. What is to be gained from the inertia of an old, 
obsolete  policy,  borne  of  an  antagonistic,  unhealthy 
and ethically unacceptable confrontation that has failed 
for  fifty  years?  Why  not  listen  to  the  increasingly 
prevailing opinion in United States society and among 
Cuban  emigrants,  even  in  Florida,  that  supports  the 
normalization  of  bilateral  relations  and  opposes  the 
embargo and the travel ban? Why not accept the fact that 
we  are  an  independent  State  with  equal  sovereignty? 
Would  it  not  be  better  to  pragmatically  renounce  the 
ideological  obsession,  inherited  from  United  States 
politicians  of  two  generations  ago,  a  policy  that  has 
not worked, and stop spending taxpayer dollars trying, 
unsuccessfully, to change the Cuban Government?
The  State  Department’s  persistence  in  labelling 
Cuba, arbitrarily and without grounds, as a State that 
sponsors international terrorism harms the credibility 
of the United States, since it was precisely on United 
States territory that the terrorist actions that caused the 
13-53496
19/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
death  of  3,478  persons  and  disabilities  to  2,099  were 
organized. The notorious international terrorist Posada 
Carriles has found comfortable refuge in Miami, while 
four of the five Cuban anti-terrorists are serving long 
and unjust imprisonment sentences. What is preventing 
the United States Government from setting them free 
as a humanitarian gesture or act of justice?
The Government of Cuba, with the support of the 
overwhelming  majority  and  the  active  participation 
of  its  people,  continues  to  pursue  a  process  of  far-
reaching economic transformation aimed at making our 
socialist economy more efficient, improving the living 
standards  of  the  population  and  preserving  the  social 
achievements  of  the  Revolution.  Our  transformations 
enjoy broad international recognition and ever-growing 
cooperation  with  many  nations,  in  particular  those  of 
Latin America and the Caribbean, with which various 
forms of integration are being strengthened.
The  essence  of  the  United  States  policy  towards 
Cuba remains unaltered and anchored in the Cold War.
The  dangers  that  threaten  the  existence  of  our 
species  are  grave  and  imminent.  To  safeguard  human 
life,  we  must  safeguard  peace,  and  to  do  so  we  need 
a  profound  change  in  the  way  the  world’s  problems 
and  conflicts  are  addressed  and  resolved,  relying  on 
dialogue  and  cooperation,  without  the  egocentrism 
and  the  philosophy  of  dispossession  that  have  led  to 
wars and without the use of force or coercive economic 
measures, which also injure and kill in silence.
It  is  true  that  there  are  big  differences  between 
the two Governments, but the only productive way to 
proceed is to find a civilized way to interact, recognizing 
that we are neighbouring States but different States and 
that it is up to each and every people to decide on its 
own  affairs,  its  political  system  and  its  economy,  in 
keeping with its legitimate interests. We must therefore 
privilege  dialogue,  negotiation  and  even  cooperation, 
as far as possible and practicable, to the benefit of both 
peoples and relations in the hemisphere as a whole.
The  recent  resumption  of  talks  on  migration  and 
postal services, as well as the development of contacts 
on  other  issues  of  mutual  interest,  such  as  oil-spill 
response  operations,  air  and  sea  search  and  rescue 
operations, and air and aviation safety, show that that is 
both possible and useful.
The  Government  of  Cuba,  as  an  expression  of  its 
aspirations  towards  peace  and  respectful  coexistence, 
reiterates  its  determination  to  make  progress  towards 
the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations  and  reiterates 
its willingness to establish a serious and constructive 
dialogue on an equal footing and with full respect for 
our independence.
Once  again,  on  behalf  of  the  selfless,  heroic  and 
fraternal  people  of  Cuba,  I  ask  the  representatives  of 
the Member States to vote in favour of draft resolution 
A/68/L.6  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/68/L.6.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Godard  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  strongly  supports  the  Cuban  people’s 
desire  to  freely  determine  their  own  future.  It  is  the 
Cuban Government that continues to deprive the Cuban 
people of the realization of that aspiration.
Like all Member States, the United States conducts 
its  economic  relationships  with  other  countries  in 
accordance  with  its  national  interests  and  principles. 
Our  sanctions  policy  towards  Cuba  is  just  one  of  the 
tools  in  our  overall  effort  to  encourage  respect  for 
civil and human rights in a manner consistent with the 
Universal  Declaration,  to  which  the  United  Nations 
itself  is  committed.  We  therefore  stand  in  opposition 
to this draft resolution, and we call on all other nations 
that  support  the  Cuban  people  to  oppose  this  draft 
resolution.
The  United  States  places  the  highest  priority 
on  building  and  strengthening  connections  between 
the  Cuban  and  American  people.  Those  connections 
give Cubans the support and tools they need to move 
forward,  independent  of  their  Government.  United 
States  citizens  engaging  in  well-defined,  purposeful 
travel remain the best ambassadors for our democratic 
ideals.  The  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Americans  who 
have sent remittances and travelled to the island under 
various  categories  of  purposeful  travel,  as  promoted 
by President Obama, are a central part of a strategy to 
ensure that Cubans have the opportunities they deserve.
20/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
for 
self-employment 
Cubans are helped by the revised travel, remittance, 
information  exchange,  humanitarian  and  people-to-
people  policies,  as  well  as  the  alternative  sources  of 
information, the chance to take advantage of emerging 
opportunities 
and  private 
property,  and  the  strengthening  of  independent  civil 
society. In contrast, Cuba’s draft resolution (A/68/L.6) 
seeks to identify an external scapegoat and excuse the 
Cuban Government for the island’s economic problems. 
However,  the  Cuban  Government  has  now  publicly 
recognized that those problems are caused by the very 
economic policies that it has pursued for the past half-
century.
While  we  note  and  welcome  recent  changes, 
such  as  those  that  allow  greater  self-employment  and 
liberalization  of  the  real  estate  market,  Cuba  still 
has  one  of  the  most  restricted  economic  systems  in 
the  world.  Irrespective  of  United  States  policy,  it  is 
unrealistic to expect the Cuban economy to thrive until 
the  Cuban  Government  opens  its  State  monopolies 
to  private  competition, 
fully  empowers  Cuban 
entrepreneurs,  respects  intellectual  property  rights, 
allows unfettered access to the Internet and adopts the 
sound macroeconomic policies that have contributed to 
the success of many of Cuba’s neighbouring countries 
in Latin America.
I  want  to  make  clear  that  the  United  States  is,  in 
fact, a deep and abiding friend of the Cuban people. In 
2012, the Cuban people received more than $2 billion in 
remittances and other private support from the United 
States. That was made possible by United States policy 
choices. In 2012, the United States was Cuba’s largest 
supplier of food and agricultural products; it exported 
nearly  $465  million  in  agricultural  products,  medical 
devices, medicine and humanitarian items to Cuba.
By  the  Cuban  Government’s  own  account,  the 
United  States  is  one  of  Cuba’s  principal  trading 
partners. Far from restricting aid to the Cuban people, 
we  are  proud  that  the  American  people  and  United 
States  companies  are  among  the  leading  providers 
of  humanitarian  assistance  to  Cuba.  All  of  that  trade 
and  assistance  is  conducted  in  conformity  with  our 
sanctions  programme,  which  is  carefully  calibrated 
to allow and encourage the provision of support to the 
Cuban people.
We  remain  committed  to  policies  that  support 
the  welfare  and  human  rights  of  individuals  in 
Cuba,  including  the  right  to  seek,  receive  and  impart 
information and ideas through any media, as set forth 
in  article  19  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.  To  help  further  the  enjoyment  of  that  right, 
we  support  Cubans  in  their  aspirations  for  access  to 
the  Internet,  a  goal  that  the  Cuban  Government  itself 
now  also  claims  to  support.  The  Cuban  Government 
has failed, however, to offer widespread access to the 
Internet through its high-speed cable with Venezuela or 
to pursue other available avenues for increasing Cubans’ 
access to the Internet. Instead, it continues to impose 
isolation  on  the  Cuban  people,  while  disingenuously 
blaming the embargo.
Moreover,  the  Cuban  Government  continues  to 
detain  Alan  Gross,  an  American  citizen,  who  was 
sentenced to 15 years in prison for facilitating Internet 
access for Cuba’s small Jewish community. The United 
States  calls  on  Cuba  to  release  Mr.  Gross  and  to  tear 
down the wall of censorship that it has erected around 
the Cuban people.
to  finally  allow  Cuban  citizens 
The United States continues to call on the Cuban 
Government 
to 
enjoy  the  political  and  economic  freedoms  to  which 
this  Organization  is  committed.  The  international 
community cannot in good conscience ignore the ease 
and  frequency  with  which  the  Cuban  regime  silences 
critics, disrupts peaceful assembly, impedes independent 
journalism and, despite positive reforms, continues to 
prevent some Cubans from leaving or returning to the 
island. The Cuban Government continues its tactics of 
politically motivated detentions, harassment and police 
violence  against  Cuban  citizens,  such  as  the  Ladies 
in  White,  who  peacefully  seek  freedom  for  political 
prisoners  and  advocate  on  behalf  of  positive  political 
and  social  change.  The  draft  resolution  serves  only 
to  distract  from  the  real  problems  facing  the  Cuban 
people, and therefore, my delegation will oppose it.
We encourage this organ to support the desires of 
the Cuban people to freely determine their own future. 
By doing that, it would truly advance the principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the purposes for 
which the United Nations was created.
Ms. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke in 
Spanish):  Once  again  the  international  community  is 
meeting in the General Assembly to discuss and approve 
the  draft  resolution  submitted  by  the  sister  Republic 
of  Cuba,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba” (A/68/L.6).
13-53496
21/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
Nicaragua,  in  explaining  its  vote  on  the  draft 
resolution  submitted  by  the  representative  of  the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  takes  the  opportunity  to  add  its 
voice to the statements made by representatives of the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States,  and  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Americas. 
Nicaragua  also  welcomes 
the 
representatives of the Caribbean Community, the Union 
of  South  American  Nations,  the  Southern  Common 
Market,  the  African  Union,  and  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation on the issue before us.
the  statements  by 
We  appreciate  the  information  provided  by  our 
fellow  colleague,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, brother Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, keeping us up 
to date on the resurgence of the economic suffocation 
policy pursued by the United States of America through 
its  continued  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade, 
the  extraterritorial 
dimension of the blockade and its increased persecution 
of Cuba’s international financial transactions.
resurgence  of 
the 
It  is  quite  clear  to  the  international  community 
that the blockade is the main obstacle to the economic 
and  social  development  of  that  sister  nation  and  its 
trade  ties  with  the  world,  and  it  is  an  obstacle  to  the 
international cooperation that Cuba gives and receives. 
Our colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, 
has  provided  data  revealing  the  depth  of  the  effects 
on  their  exports  and  imports;  the  lack  of  access  to 
international credit; the effects on their health system, 
education system — in sum, damages in all spheres of 
life affecting the brotherly people of Cuba.
We have listened again, with pain and indignation, 
and it is increasingly reprehensible to us that a country 
as  powerful  as  the  United  States  of  America  should 
insist on increasing the suffering of the Cuban people 
by continuing to violate their most basic rights to life, 
development, health and education.
We  are  astounded  by  the  cruelty  shown  by  the 
various  United  States  Administrations  from  1959  to 
the  present  day  against  Cuba  —  a  small,  wonderful, 
supportive  and 
island,  as 
transparent  as  its  waters  —  only  because,  following 
its glorious revolution, it did not continue to allow the 
United States to use its island as its favourite backyard 
on our continent.
fraternal  Caribbean 
We have just heard the representative of the United 
States of America explain his country’s vote. It was the 
same explanation of vote, the same arrogance and the 
same arguments to justify that absurd, out-dated, illegal 
and  morally  unsustainable  policy  that  we  hear  in  this 
Assembly year after year. Not only have those arguments 
been rejected by the international community, but every 
day  more  sectors  of  American  society  —  academics, 
businessmen,  members  of  the  religious  community, 
scientists  and  social  organizations  —  are  demanding 
an end to the blockade and the resumption of friendly 
and  cooperative  relations  with  Cuba,  as  befits  two 
neighbours  on  an  equal  footing,  without  external 
interference, 
impositions,  blockades  or 
coercive economic measures.
imperial 
Today, as it has done year after year, the international 
community will respond once again in support of Cuba 
and for the lifting of the unjust, illegal and inhumane 
blockade. We will vote green — the colour of hope, of 
nature, of life itself — in honour of and with respect for 
the people and Government of Cuba, which for over 50 
years have resisted and fought and will continue doing 
so, because the United States will never — and I repeat 
never —  break  the  will  of  that  heroic  people  in  their 
struggle  for  their  sovereignty,  independence,  right  to 
self-determination  and  policies  of  solidarity,  support, 
fraternity and brotherhood with the people of the world.
As  our  President,  Comandante  Daniel  Ortega, 
recently stated:
“Cuba,  subjected  to  the  most  brutal  aggressions 
of  the  Empire,  is  the  best  testimony  that  peoples’ 
freedom,  sovereignty,  justice,  independence  and 
right  to  peace  can  be  defended  and  safeguarded, 
when a revolution,  its ideas and its principles  is 
undertaken by a whole population.”
We  hope 
the  current  United  States 
Administration will reflect and rectify itself by voting 
in favour of this twenty-second draft resolution, which 
voices  the  international  community’s  call  for  an  end 
once and for all to the inhuman and criminal economic, 
commercial and financial blockade against Cuba.
that 
It  is  imperative  that,  in  the  reflection  on  and 
rectification  of 
the  anachronistic  and  arbitrary 
policies  towards  Cuba  that  we  demand,  the  United 
States  Government  decide  once  and  for  all  to  return 
the  occupied  territory  of  Guantánamo;  immediately 
and  unconditionally  free  the  five  Cuban  anti-terrorist 
heroes who have suffered in United States prisons for 
over 15 years, and allow them to return to their families 
and their people; and immediately remove Cuba from 
22/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
the  list  of  countries  that  sponsor  terrorism,  which  is 
nothing more than a justification by the United States 
of  America  for  intensifying  its  practices  and  policies 
against Cuba.
Nicaragua  reaffirms  its  well-known  position  of 
support for and complete solidarity with the brotherly 
people  and  Government  of  Cuba.  As  always,  we  will 
vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  on  the  issue 
(A/68/L.6).  That  affirmative  vote  will  reflect  the 
gratitude of hundreds of thousands of Nicaraguans who 
have  received  the  militant  solidarity  of  the  brotherly 
people and Government of Cuba in our struggle for our 
political and economic independence.
The  United  States  no  longer  has  any  argument; 
the international community knows it and so does the 
United States. The result of the vote will be more than 
clear.  The  United  States  of  America,  in  its  imperial 
obsession  with  trying  to  defeat  that  heroic  people 
through its blockade, has become a State that violates 
and  disrespects  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law 
and the only obstructionist State to the agreement of the 
General  Assembly  to  immediately  end  this  cruel  and 
inhuman blockade against Cuba.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/68/L.6, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cabo  Verde, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, 
South Sudan, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
the 
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Abstaining:
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Palau
Draft resolution A/68/L.6 was adopted by 188 votes 
to 2, with 3 abstentions (resolution 68/8).
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  those 
representatives  wishing  to  explain  their  votes  on  the 
resolution just adopted.
Mrs.  Kazragienė  (Lithuania):  I  have  the  honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU)and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
13-53496
23/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, align themselves with this statement.
The  United  States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is 
fundamentally  a  bilateral  issue.  However,  American 
legislation such as the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 
and  the  Helms-Burton  Act  of  1996  has  extended  the 
effects  of  the  United  States  embargo  to  third-party 
countries. In the framework of the common commercial 
policy, the European Union has firmly and continuously 
opposed such extraterritorial measures.
We  appreciate  the  decision  of  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  to  lift  restrictions  on  remittances 
and  family  travel  to  Cuba,  but  we  cannot  accept  that 
unilaterally  imposed  measures  impede  our  economic 
and commercial relations with that country. 
To  address  the  problem,  in  November  1996,  the 
EU  Council  of  Ministers  adopted  a  regulation  and  a 
joint action to protect the interests of natural or legal 
persons  residing  in  Europe  against  the  consequences 
of those Acts. Furthermore, at the summit between the 
European Union and the United States held in London 
in  May  1998,  a  package  was  agreed  that  also  sought 
to  alleviate  the  problems  brought  by  extraterritorial 
legislation.  It  covered  waivers  to  Titles  III  and  IV  of 
the  Helms-Burton  Act,  a  commitment  by  the  United 
States  Government  to  resist  future  extraterritorial 
legislation of that kind, and an understanding regarding 
the  disciplines  for  the  strengthening  of  investment 
protection. It is urgent that the United States implement 
that agreement.
The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  was 
set out in a common position in 1996. Reaffirming the 
validity of the common position, the European Union 
in  June  2008  lifted  the  restrictive  measures  imposed 
on  Cuba  in  2003.  The  dialogue  with  the  authorities 
in  Havana  was  resumed  without  preconditions  and 
on  the  basis  of  reciprocity  and  non-discrimination. 
Five  political  dialogue  ministerial  sessions  have  been 
held with the Cuban Government addressing issues of 
common interest, including human rights — a question 
at the core of relations with all third countries, including 
Cuba.
We  reaffirm  our  determination 
to  pursue  a 
comprehensive,  results-oriented  dialogue  with  the 
Cuban  authorities  and  with  representatives  of  civil 
society  and  the  peaceful  pro-democracy  opposition, 
in accordance with EU policies. We reiterate the right 
of  the  Cuban  citizens  to  make  independent  decisions 
about their future. We reiterate our call on the Cuban 
Government  to  fully  grant  its  citizens  internationally 
recognized  civil,  political  and  economic  rights  and 
freedoms, including the freedom of assembly, freedom 
of expression and free access to information. We call 
on  it  to  ratify  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil 
and  Political  Rights  and  the  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights and, following the visit of 
the  United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right 
to  food,  to  extend  invitations  to  other  rapporteurs  to 
visit  Cuba.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  adoption 
of  a  new  migration  law  by  the  Cuban  Government  as 
an important step towards the freedom of movement of 
Cuban citizens.
The  existing  restrictions  on  rights  and  freedoms 
undermine  and  offset  the  Cuban  achievements  in 
health  care  and  education.  Similarly,  domestic  Cuban 
economic  policy  seriously  hampers  its  own  economic 
development.  In  that  context,  we  note  the  adoption 
by the Cuban Parliament in August 2011 of a package 
of  economic  and  social  reforms,  and  we  expect  that 
those reforms will be extended and implemented in a 
manner that will address the key concerns of the Cuban 
population.
The economic, commercial, and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to  the 
economic  problems  in  Cuba,  negatively  affecting  the 
living standards of the Cuban people. The lifting of the 
United States embargo would facilitate an opening of 
the Cuban economy, to the benefit of the Cuban people.
Together,  we  again  express  our  rejection  of  all 
unilateral  measures  directed  against  Cuba  that  are 
contrary  to  commonly  accepted  rules  of  international 
trade. We urge the Cuban authorities to bring about real 
improvements in all the areas mentioned.
In  spite  of  continued  concerns  and  criticisms  on 
the  aforementioned  human  rights  situation  in  Cuba, 
the member States of the European Union unanimously 
voted in favour of resolution 68/8.
Ms.  King  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines): 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution 68/8.
We align ourselves fully with the statements made 
earlier today by representatives who spoke on behalf of 
the Caribbean Community, the Non-Aligned Movement, 
the Group of 77 and China, and the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States.
24/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
The embargo has been and continues to be a violation 
of international law. It is contrary to the purposes and 
principles of the United Nations Charter. We take the 
floor  at  this  time  to  re-emphasize  our  deeply  held 
conviction that the ongoing embargo has served only to 
cause undue suffering to the Cuban people.
In  his  inaugural  address  to  the  United  Nations  in 
2009, President Obama told us:
“No one nation can or should try to dominate another 
nation. No world order that elevates one nation or 
group  of  people  over  another  will  succeed  ...  The 
traditional divisions between nations of the South 
and the North make no sense in an interconnected 
world,  nor  do  alignments  of  nations  rooted  in 
the  cleavages  of  a  long-gone  cold  war.  The  time 
has  come  to  realize  that  the  old  habits,  the  old 
arguments,  are  irrelevant  to  the  challenges  faced 
by our peoples... The world must stand together to 
demonstrate that international law is not an empty 
promise.” (A/64/PV.3, pp. 10-11)
We  must  continue  to  ask  ourselves  what  place 
this  embargo  has  in  our  modern  world.  And  in 
an  interconnected  world  of  open  borders  and  the 
free  movement  of  people,  goods  and  capital,  how 
can  the  champions  and  architects  of  globalization 
simultaneously  legislate  the  isolation  of  one  State  or 
place extraterritorial restrictions on commerce, global 
trade  and  the  movement  of  individuals?  How  can  the 
electorate  of  one  country  or  one  constituency  or  one 
district determine the cargo and path of a ship sailing 
into and out of Cuban waters, or the manner in which 
banks and corporations of other countries conduct their 
business with Cuba?
Versions  of  resolution  68/8,  adopted  today,  have 
been introduced for the past 21 sessions of the General 
Assembly  and  have  enjoyed  near-unanimous  support 
for years. There is no other example of the international 
community  speaking  so  overwhelmingly  and  so 
consistently. However, the embargo remains stubbornly 
in place, and its negative impacts have intensified since 
the recent global financial crisis.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is aware that our 
small population and economy and the waning military 
significance of the Caribbean region have allowed our 
needs and concerns to be overlooked by many. As far 
wealthier nations and institutions have looked askance 
at our developmental struggles and offer only dubious 
prescriptions,  platitudes  and  trite  clichés,  the  Cuban 
people have rolled up their sleeves and given freely of 
themselves in a manner that has touched the hearts and 
souls of the Vincentian people. No dollar amount can 
adequately reflect the value of that support, solidarity 
and  partnership,  for  which  the  Cuban  people  have 
asked  nothing  in  return.  Our  appreciation  cannot  be 
overstated.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  continues  to 
hope for an evolution in the thinking and actions of our 
friends in the United States of America on the matter 
before us today, and we remain unequivocal in our call 
for the removal of that constraint on the development of 
our Caribbean neighbour.
Mr. Sin Son Ho (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea):  It  is  my  pleasure  to  speak  before  the  General 
Assembly  on 
item  before 
us,  namely,  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.
important  agenda 
the 
My delegation fully aligns itself with the statements 
made  earlier  by  representatives  who  spoke  on  behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, and other regional groups.
Twenty years have passed since the United Nations 
started its debates on ending the unilateral economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  The  United 
States blockade against Cuba is the legacy of the Cold 
War.  It  is  intended  to  overthrow  the  legitimate  social 
system chosen by the Cuban people, and it has turned 
that country into a quiet backyard of the United States.
Due  to  the  United  States  embargo,  the  new 
development  efforts  by  the  Cuban  Government  to 
improve  the  livelihood  and  social  welfare  of  the 
Cuban  people  have  encountered  great  obstacles. 
To  make  things  worse,  the  United  States  Congress 
passed the Helms-Burton Act, expanding sanctions to 
other  countries  that  wanted  to  develop  economic  and 
trade  relations  with  Cuba.  That  is  an  inhumane  and 
undemocratic action, a mockery of the common efforts 
of the regional countries for peaceful development. The 
United States embargo against Cuba clearly constitutes 
a grave violation against basic rights and human rights 
of the Cuban people.
The  anti-Cuban  blockade 
is  also  a  wanton 
violation  of  principles  stipulated  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations on the right to self-determination, 
sovereign equality, non-interference in internal affairs 
13-53496
25/27
A/68/PV.38 
29/10/2013
and  freedom  of  trade.  It  is  a  typical  example  of  a 
extraterritorial act to force another country to change 
its political, economic and social system according to 
a particular country’s values. That cannot be justified 
under  any  circumstances.  Ending 
the  unilateral 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba  is  today  the  unanimous 
demand  of  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations, 
including Cuba, that aspire to sustainable development 
in a peaceful environment.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea strongly 
condemns the United States for the embargo against the 
Cuban people and demands the immediate lifting of this 
sanction, in accordance with the many relevant United 
Nations  resolutions.  Based  on  its  consistent  stand  to 
oppose  all  sorts  of  interference  and  sanctions  against 
a sovereign State, the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, as in the past, voted in support of the resolution 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba (resolution 68/8).
Once again, we strongly urge the United States to 
immediately abandon its blockade against Cuba.
Finally, we reiterate our support for and solidarity 
with the Cuban Government and people in their struggle 
to  safeguard  their  national  dignity  and  sovereignty 
against  the  United  States’  attempt  at  a  unilateral 
blockade.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 
The  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  against  Cuba  and 
its people have endured for over 50 years and have not 
engendered the intended consequences. That is why we 
have  often  appealed  to  our  friend,  the  United  States, 
that it is about time they were brought to an end. Today, 
once  again,  in  adopting  resolution 68/8  we  in  this 
Assembly joined to reiterate our collective call for the 
unconditional cessation of the embargo against Cuba.
For  50  years  the  sanctions  have  had  no  evident 
effect  except  as  a  curtailment  of  the  basic  right  of 
ordinary  Cubans  to  development  and  happiness.  We 
believe  that  ending  the  sanctions  would  have  obvious 
economic benefits for both Cuba and the United States. 
As a friend and ally of the United States and Cuba, we 
see a glittering light at the end of the tunnel. There is 
hope on the horizon, hope for a lasting solution to an 
unfortunate situation.
We  hope  and  believe  that  both  the  United  States 
and the Cuban Governments can work towards a lasting 
solution,  one  that  would  restore  the  relations  that 
existed  between  the  two  peoples  and  countries  long 
before  the  embargo  was  imposed.  We  are  encouraged 
by the steps taken by the United States since 2009. We 
see the lifting of the restrictions on family travel and 
remittances  to  Cuba,  the  expansion  of  humanitarian 
exports and the review of regulations for United States 
telecommunications  companies,  among  others,  as 
promising steps. Much more needs to be done.
On  4  April  2002,  then  United  States  President 
George W. Bush observed, in his remarks on the Trade 
Promotion Authority Legislation and Extension of the 
Andean Trade Preference Act:
“[T]rade creates the habits of freedom [which 
create] the expectations of democracy and demands 
for better democratic institutions. Societies that are 
open  to  commerce  across  their  borders  are  more 
open to democracy within their borders.
“And  for  those  of  us  who  care  about  values, 
believe  in  values,  not  just  American  values,  but 
universal values that promote human dignity, trade 
is a good way to do that.”
We agree with former President Bush. Commercial 
engagement  is  the  best  way  to  encourage  more  open 
societies.  Indeed,  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  would  be  a 
great  victory  for  the  values  that  we  have  collectively 
undertaken to uphold, values enshrined in the Charter 
of this Organization.
Mrs.  Perceval  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina’s vote in favour of resolution 68/8 reaffirms 
the  rejection  by  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Argentine nation of that type of unilateral, illegal and 
illegitimate measure. The economic sanctions imposed 
by the United States since 1962, called an embargo, can 
be  interpreted  by  some  only  as  a  trade  and  financial 
war, which could be highly criticized, but let there be 
no  mistake.  Its  substance,  its  main  goal  is  political, 
against  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and 
against what the Cuban people have freely chosen as a 
way of life.
Those  measures  are  not  merely  arbitrary  and 
illegal. They also run counter to what the international 
community and the United Nations have been demanding 
for more than 20 years. Over the years, Governments of 
the United States have put forward various arguments 
publicly to justify the blockade. However, we know that 
the public arguments have changed. But if we look at 
26/27 
13-53496
29/10/2013 
A/68/PV.38
the documents of the various Administrations, we see 
the real reason behind the maintenance of the blockade. 
It is what has been said since the very beginning, that 
its  goal  is  to  increase  discomfort  among  the  Cuban 
people through hunger and thus to bring about despair 
and the fall of the Government.
That  endeavour  has  already  failed.  It  has  failed, 
not  just  because  of  the  courage  of  the  Cuban  people, 
but  because  the  international  community  has  just 
expressed  itself,  with  an  overwhelming  majority,  in 
favour  of  putting  an  end  to  the  unfair,  arbitrary  and 
illegal measure.
Argentina  is  firmly  committed  to  multilateralism 
as a legitimate instrument for the settlement of disputes 
between  States.  We  believe  that  the  embargo  against 
Cuba, far from resolving disputes, creates new ones. It 
violates the rules of international law and the principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. As the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba just said, it blocks a free people 
from access to minimum goods for health, technology 
and  education.  In  fact,  here,  in  the  United  Nations, 
where  we  support  and  want  a  more  just  international 
order,  in  reality,  the  disproportionate  exercise  of  the 
economic  clout  of  one  nation  against  a  weaker  one 
not only is unequal but accentuates the inequality and 
distances us from true multilateralism.
Argentina defends free trade, but not through the 
survival of the fittest or the law of the jungle. Free trade 
is  also  trade  that  is  free  of  arbitrary  impositions  that 
impair the equality of opportunities. Thus, Law 24871 
establishes the normative framework with respect to the 
reach of foreign laws on Argentine territory. It provides 
that  foreign  laws  will  be  absolutely  inapplicable  and 
without  any  legal  effect  if  they  are  intended  to  cause 
extraterritorial  legal  effects  through  imposing  an 
economic blockade or by limiting investment in a given 
country in order to bring about a change of Government 
in that country or to have an effect on the right to self-
determination.
It  is  unacceptable  that,  despite  the  repeated  and 
practically  unanimous  appeal  of  the  international 
community,  especially  by  the  General  Assembly,  for 
elimination of the embargo against Cuba, that embargo 
persists.  Cuba 
is  suffering  unilateral  aggression 
disguised  as  mere  commercial  aggression.  I  insist 
that  that  is  unjustified.  We  must  stress  the  fact  that 
multilateralism  defends  true  democracy  throughout 
the world. True democracy means acknowledging that 
freedom is the condition of liberation. Some countries 
simply  understand  that  freedom  is  freedom  of  the 
market  and  subjugate  other  countries  to  military  or 
economic hegemony.
Lastly,  Argentina  reiterates  its  position  against 
such  measures.  We  stand  together  with  Cuba  as  an 
active  member  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States.  With  passion,  agreement  and 
conviction,  we  shall  continue  to  fully  implement  the 
provisions of resolution 68/8.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
13-53496
27/27
