United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
20th plenary meeting
Saturday, 28 September 2013, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.20
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Beck (Solomon 
Islands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on His Highness 
Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan (United 
Arab Emirates) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I would 
like  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  his  election  to 
serve  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  am  confident  that 
his  experience  in  international  affairs  will  contribute 
to the success of this session. I would also like to take 
this opportunity to commend his predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić, for his wise leadership during the last session, 
and to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and his 
staff for their tireless efforts to promote global peace, 
security and development.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  continues  to  firmly 
believe  in  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations,  as  enshrined  in  its  Charter,  calling  for  the 
protection  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
promotion of peaceful coexistence among nations and 
peoples through the peaceful resolution of international 
disputes,  respect  for  the  provisions  of  international 
law,  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States. Those goals also call for us to foster a climate 
favourable to international relations based on tolerance, 
non-violence  and  recognition  of  others.  My  country 
has  followed  such  an  approach  in  its  regional  and 
international relations.
However,  we  cannot  conceal  our  deep  concern  at 
the  recent  events  in  the  Arab  region  associated  with 
sectarian  strife,  an  escalation  in  terrorist  attacks 
and  growing  incitement  to  violence,  which,  in  turn, 
have  given  rise  to  extreme  polarization  in  the  region 
and  among  its  peoples,  severely  impacting  stability 
and  development.  In  the  Arab  Gulf,  we  see  how 
extremism  and  terrorism  in  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
are threatening to undermine security and stability and 
destroy a history of tolerance in which sectarianism has 
never  played  any  role.  The  situation  has  been  further 
aggravated  by  the  politicization  and  exploitation  of 
the  religion  of  Islam  by  those  seeking  to  use  it  as  a 
tool  to  exclude  and  marginalize  other  segments  of 
society, which, until now, had all lived in constructive, 
harmonious and peaceful coexistence.
All  of  this  has  led  to  widespread  fears  about  the 
fate  of  the  national  State  and  what  that  implies  in 
terms  of  the  undermining  of  the  pillars  of  the  State, 
the  wasting  of  its  resources  and  the  weakening  of  its 
economy.  As  members  may  be  aware,  such  difficult 
conditions have put the young people of the region in 
jeopardy of falling into the clutches of extremism and 
violence, especially in a climate of growing despair and 
lack of opportunities.
That  is  why  the  United  Arab  Emirates  gives 
paramount importance to its efforts aimed at promoting 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48911 (E)
*1348911*
A/68/PV.20 
28/09/2013
a culture of moderation and non-violence and fighting 
extremism  in  all  its  forms.  In  that  regard,  I  refer  in 
particular to my country’s initiative to fight extremism 
through the Hedayah International Centre of Excellence 
for  Countering  Violent  Extremism.  The  United  Arab 
Emirates actually proposed the Centre’s establishment 
at a meeting held here at the United Nations, and today 
the Centre is seeing the light.
In that context, I can only condemn in the strongest 
possible  terms  all  cowardly  attacks,  but  particularly 
the  terrorist  attack  committed  at  the  shopping  centre 
in  Nairobi,  which  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  dozens  of 
innocent victims.
The United Arab Emirates is deeply disappointed 
at  the  international  community’s  inability  to  put  an 
immediate end to the worsening tragedy of the brotherly 
Syrian people caused by continual military actions and 
indiscriminate  and  systematic  bombings  by  Syrian 
forces in Damascus. So far, more than 100,000 people 
have  been  killed  and  millions  of  people  have  been 
injured  or  displaced.  This  is  an  extremely  dangerous 
violation  of 
international 
humanitarian law.
international 
law  and 
thousands  of  civilians, 
We are deeply concerned at the increasingly serious 
implications of the conflict in Syria and the entire region. 
We  strongly  condemn  and  reject  all  crimes  against 
humanity committed by the Syrian regime, especially 
the chemical attack against Ghouta, Damascus, which 
killed 
including  children. 
We  therefore  call  upon  the  international  community 
to  take  all  measures  necessary  to  punish  the  Syrian 
regime  for  its  massacring  of  civilians.  The  Assembly 
should  be  aware  of  the  frustration  that  we  and  the 
majority  of  countries  in  the  region  feel  with  respect 
to the dysfunction of United Nations mechanisms that 
could  have  prevented  the  Syrian  regime’s  aggressive 
acts against its own people. The Organization’s failure 
to  act  is  directly  responsible  for  exacerbating  the 
humanitarian  tragedy  that  we  are  witnessing  in  Syria 
today. It is also responsible for the threat to the Syrian 
State, Syrian society and the Syrian people.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  fulfilled 
its 
responsibilities with respect to ongoing relief operations 
for the Syrian people and continues to provide all kinds 
of aid — building hospitals, providing medical supplies 
and  staffing  medical  teams.  It  calls  for  concerted 
international  and  regional  efforts,  directly  or  through 
international  organizations,  to  meet  the  humanitarian 
needs  of  Syrians  displaced  inside  Syria  and  across 
the country’s borders, with a view to alleviating their 
suffering.
In  that  context,  we  are  seeking  in  these  meetings 
to  address  the  issues  of  our  region,  its  stability  and 
its  future.  That  the  issues  and  events  that  take  place 
in Egypt are very important and cannot be overlooked 
is  beyond  question.  Egypt  is  a  pivotal  State  whose 
stability  and  civil  peace  signify  that  the  region  is 
beginning  to  recover.  Accordingly,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  is  following  with  great  interest  the  positive 
developments that are occurring in Egypt, as we firmly 
believe that Egypt plays a key role in ensuring stability, 
development  and  prosperity.  There  is  no  doubt  that  a 
stable  and  calm  Egypt  is  vital  to  security  and  peace, 
not only in the Arab region, but in the world as a whole.
On 30 June, Egypt experienced a second wave of 
revolution, when tens of millions of Egyptians expressed 
their resolute will to draw up a road map for a better 
future for their country. In it the ground is laid for an 
inclusive democratic path based on the participation of 
all segments of society without any exceptions, within 
the framework of a policy characterized by moderation, 
centrism, non-violence and the non-use of religion as a 
means to exclude or classify or to foment sectarianism or 
hatred. The United Arab Emirates therefore believes that 
the  sovereign  measures  implemented  by  the  Egyptian 
Government to protect national security and the steps 
it  has  taken  to  implement  the  road  map  supported  by 
the people give grounds for optimism and enhance the 
Egyptian  Government’s  credibility.  I  would  also  take 
this opportunity to urge the international community to 
stand behind Egypt at this critical juncture and support 
the  sincere  efforts  of  its  interim  Government  to  lay 
the  foundations  of  stability,  development  and  civilian 
constitutional rule.
The United Arab Emirates recognizes the suffering 
of the Arab region caused by the interference of others 
in its internal affairs and the ensuing threats to national 
statehood generally. We therefore wish to warn of the 
danger of interfering in the domestic affairs of Egypt 
and  call  on  everyone  to  refrain  from  disrupting  the 
country’s march towards stability and democracy.
The  issues  that  the  Arab  region  faces  are  all 
interconnected.  Everyone  in  this  Hall  realizes  that 
peace  emerges  as  a  central  and  relevant  issue  to  all 
that  is  occurring  there.  Although  many  decades  have 
passed, the Palestinian people continue to look forward 
2/7 
13-48911
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.20
to  realizing  their  right  to  self-determination  and  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  based  on  international  legal 
instruments  that  recognize  their  right  to  establish  a 
State, in line with the 4 June 1967 borders, as confirmed 
by United Nations resolutions and in accordance with 
the Arab Peace Initiative.
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  welcome  the  relaunching  of  peace  talks  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  States.  We  hope  that  those 
talks  will  lead  to  positive  results  in  the  form  of  the 
establishment of a Palestinian State. We also welcome 
the European Union’s constructive position consisting 
of  non-recognition  of  the  legitimacy  of  the  Israeli 
settlements and the decision to cease its dealings with 
them. The United Arab Emirates is ready to contribute 
to a successful outcome of the new initiative in order 
to achieve security, peace and economic growth in that 
important part of the world.
Security and stability in the Gulf region represent 
a  high  priority  in  the  balanced  policy  that  we  have 
derived  from  principles  found  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the provisions of international law, 
especially  those  that  call  for  peaceful  coexistence, 
confidence-building,  good  neighbourliness,  mutual 
respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of States, 
and the pursuit of peaceful means in the resolution of 
conflicts  and  disputes.  Based  on  those  principles,  my 
Government  expresses,  once  again,  its  regret  at  the 
continued Iranian occupation of our three islands — Abu 
Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb — and demands 
that the  undiminished sovereignty of the United Arab 
Emirates over those islands be fully restored.
We emphasize that all actions and measures taken 
by  the  Iranian  occupation  authorities  are  considered 
null  and  void  and  are  contrary  to  international  law 
and  all  norms  of  common  human  values.  Therefore, 
we call upon the international community to urge Iran 
to respond to my country’s repeated peaceful, sincere 
request  for  a  just  settlement  of  the  dispute,  either 
through  direct,  serious  negotiations  between  our  two 
nations  or  by  referring  the  case  to  the  International 
Court of Justice, in accordance with the principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of 
international law.
Acting  from  our  firm  principles  in  regional  and 
international  relations,  we  welcome 
the  declared 
approach  of  Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  We  affirm  that  our  country 
will  sincerely  cooperate  with  him  in  the  interest  of 
promoting  security,  stability  and  prosperity  in  the 
region.
There  has  been  considerable  debate  about  Iran’s 
nuclear  programme.  Many  suspicions  revolve  around 
it. Therefore, we urge Iran to constructively cooperate 
with the International Atomic Energy Agency, defuse 
all scepticism about the peaceful nature of its nuclear 
activities,  and  act  with  full  transparency  and  clarity 
to  avoid  any  negative  consequences  that  could  arise 
from the absence of such cooperation. The United Arab 
Emirates does, however, believe that the peaceful use 
of nuclear energy has become an urgent requirement to 
meet today’s growing demand for energy.
We are proud that we are a nation that has pioneered 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which are surrounded 
by  all  possible  security  and  safety  guarantees.  The 
United  Arab  Emirates  has opened  the  way  for  the 
introduction of renewable energy and the development 
of  clean-energy  technologies  as  its  contribution  to 
humankind in protecting the planet from the negative 
effects of climate change.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  firmly  believes  in 
the  necessity  of  achieving  human  development  at  the 
national  and  international  levels.  That  goal  can  be 
achieved  only  when  a  number  of  conditions  are  met, 
including respect for human rights and for the equality 
of  all  without  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  gender, 
ethnicity, religion, language or any other ground. That 
requires due regard for human dignity, the renunciation 
of  violence  and  the  prohibition  of  torture  and  abuse. 
The United Arab Emirates has been encouraged by the 
positive response to its periodic report by the members 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  who  commended  the 
country’s achievements and progress.
Achieving overall human development requires the 
creation of an environment conducive to tolerance and 
moderation,  free  of  any  incitement  to  hatred.  In  that 
context, it is necessary to support and promote dialogue 
among  different  countries  and  religions,  without 
arrogance or superiority on the part of any culture over 
another,  because  each  culture  has  something  to  give 
and something to gain with respect to another’s culture.
The  empowerment  of  women,  the  recognition 
of  their  vital  role  in  communities  and  the  protection 
of  women  against  discrimination  in  various  fields 
are 
international  community. 
imperatives  for 
the 
13-48911
3/7
A/68/PV.20 
28/09/2013
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  proud  of  the  significant 
measures it has taken in that respect, which have won 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  a  high  ranking  among  the 
countries  in  the  region.  Our  country  has  also  made 
significant  strides  in  combating  human  trafficking, 
and it has developed national legislation to stand firm 
against that inhumane crime.
Achieving  sustainable  development  for  all  people 
is  a  major  priority  for  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States  and  one  which  will  require  scientific 
and  technical  cooperation,  as  well  as  the  transfer 
of  technology  between  developed  and  developing 
countries,  to  further  the  common  good  of  all  peoples 
and countries of the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. K. Shanmugam, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Minister for Law of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr. 
(Singapore): 
Shanmugam 
I  warmly 
congratulate Mr. John Ashe on his election as President 
at the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly and 
wish him success during his term.
Over the past decade, the world has experienced a 
string of crises. Development has slowed. Confidence 
in the global economic system has been shaken. There 
are signs of recovery, but growth remains anaemic and 
uneven.  Unemployment  is  high  in  many  countries, 
particularly  among  the  young.  That  has  exacerbated 
problems  by 
levels,  widening 
income  gaps,  adding  to  social  instability  and  causing 
public trust in Governments and institutions to decline. 
Extreme  poverty  remains  a  major  concern  in  many 
parts of the world.
increasing  poverty 
Violence and conflict are as great a threat to global 
stability  as  poverty,  and  the  international  community 
must respond firmly to them. In that regard, Singapore 
welcomes the unanimous adoption of Security Council 
resolution  2118  (2013)  on  the  destruction  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria.    We  strongly  condemn  the  use  of 
chemical  weapons  under  any  circumstances,  as  it 
constitutes a violation of international law.  We remain 
deeply  concerned  about  the  humanitarian  situation  in 
Syria,  and  we  hope  that  the  “Geneva  II”  conference 
will  be  convened  promptly  and  will  find  a  political 
solution to end the conflict and violence. We also offer 
condolences to the Government and the people of Kenya 
over  the  brutal  attacks  in  Westgate  Mall,  a  painful 
reminder of the need to remain vigilant against terror. 
All countries must unite against violence and terror in 
order  to  create  an  environment  in  which  sustainable 
development can be pursued.
The  global  ecosystem 
is  under  stress  from 
the 
transnational  effects  of  human  development 
activities.  Human  progress  has  come  at  the  expense 
of  the  environment  and  the  climate.  Deforestation, 
desertification of land and the transboundary pollution 
of the sea, land and air degrade our quality of life and 
threaten human civilization.
We cannot go on with business as usual. We need 
to rethink and retool our economies and societies and 
to  place  poverty  eradication  and  sustainability  at  the 
centre  of  our  development  agenda.  The  President’s 
choice of “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage” as the theme for the sixty-eighth session of 
the General Assembly is therefore particularly timely. 
The 1987 Brundtland report of the World Commission 
on Environment and Development defined sustainable 
development  as  development  that  meets  the  needs  of 
the present without compromising the ability of future 
generations  to  meet  their  own  needs.  That  should 
remain our guiding principle as we negotiate the post-
2015 development agenda.
The United Nations has a critical role to play in the 
evolution  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Only 
the United Nations, with its universal membership and 
access  to  global  data,  has  the  standing  to  establish  a 
new  global  development  agenda  that  is  inclusive, 
effective  and  adaptable.  The  United  Nations  has 
adopted  an  inclusive  multi-stakeholder  approach  to 
gather  the  views  of  Member  States  and  harness  the 
energy of civil society. Several mechanisms have been 
set  up,  including  the  High-level  Political  Forum,  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  in  which  Singapore  is  participating  actively, 
and  the  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing. We strongly encourage the United Nations 
to demonstrate leadership and weave those strands of 
discussion into a single, clear framework. That would 
allow  Member  States  to  focus  their  attention  and 
prioritize their resources to meet critical challenges.
Singapore  understands  very  well  the  importance 
of  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development 
in  securing  a  country’s  future.  When  we  became 
independent, in 1965, we faced several challenges. To 
uplift our population, which had only a small number 
of  skilled  workers  and  graduates,  the  Government 
focused on education and skills development. To create 
4/7 
13-48911
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.20
jobs and alleviate poverty, we also gradually moved our 
industries  up  the  value  chain  towards  higher-skilled, 
innovation-focused  sectors.  Given  Singapore’s  land 
and resource constraints, sustainable development was 
a necessity, not just a slogan. At 700 square kilometres, 
Singapore is slightly bigger than Manhattan but smaller 
than the five boroughs of New York. To ensure that our 
city-State remained liveable, we had to ensure that our 
policies  on  housing,  infrastructure,  transport  and  the 
environment  were  well  integrated  in  a  long-term  and 
holistic vision.
Over several decades, we have managed to pursue 
growth while preserving a good living environment. For 
instance, despite the country’s being densely populated 
and highly urbanized, our greening efforts have resulted 
in more than 50 per cent of Singapore being covered by 
vegetation. The Singapore Botanic Gardens, founded in 
the nineteenth century, is the only city botanic garden 
in  the  world  to  include  a  tract  of  original,  primary 
rainforest. And despite our rapid development, we have 
managed to preserve much of our biodiversity. One of 
our nature reserves, Bukit Timah, contains more plant 
species than the entire North American continent.
We  have  also  developed  creative  solutions  to 
overcome  some  of  our  resource  constraints.  Take  the 
example of water: Singapore now imports slightly more 
than 40 per cent of our water needs. To meet our drinking 
and  industrial  needs,  we  use  a  variety  of  methods, 
including  collecting  water  through  reservoirs,  the 
desalination  of  seawater,  and  cutting-edge  membrane 
technology  to  reclaim  waste  water  into  high-grade, 
ultra-clean  water,  which  we  call  “NEWater”.  When 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  visited  Singapore  in 
March  2012,  he  was  impressed  enough  by  our  water 
management  to  make  a  toast  with  NEWater,  rather 
than  wine,  calling  NEWater,  “something  far  more 
valuable — the elixir of life”.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  post-2015  development 
agenda and suggest three priority areas. First, we should 
learn from the example of the Millennium Development 
Goals.  We  should  avoid  being  prescriptive.  As  each 
country  is  unique,  countries  should  be  allowed  to 
exercise  flexibility  as  to  which  goals  they  choose  to 
prioritize  and  how  they  will  achieve  them.  The  new 
global  development  road  map  should  have  poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development  at  its  centre 
and  should  converge  around  a  single,  clear  set  of 
practical  and  quantifiable  goals.  We  should  keep  to 
that  outcomes-based  approach  and  not  forget  that  the 
core purpose of the post-2015 development agenda is to 
improve  the  lives  of  people.  Today,  1.2  billion  people 
still live in extreme poverty. That is a staggering figure.
Secondly, we should emphasize urban management 
and  the  intertwined  issues  of  water  and  sanitation. 
According  to  the  United  Nations  Human  Settlements 
Programme,  more  than  half  of  the  world’s  population 
lives in urban areas. By 2050, 7 out of 10 people will 
live  in  urban  areas.  Many  cities  are  already  under 
strain. More than 2.5 billion people lack access to basic 
sanitation,  and  another  800  million  do  not  have  safe 
drinking  water.  Some  2,000  children  die  every  day 
from diarrhoea. The crisis will be exacerbated as more 
people move to crowded cities, where the infrastructure 
cannot  grow  fast  enough  to  support  them.  Singapore 
introduced  a  draft  resolution  in  July,  which  was 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  (resolution  67/291), 
to  designate  19  November  as  World  Toilet  Day.  We 
hope that will encourage countries to take a close look 
at how the nexus of urbanization, water and sanitation 
can be better managed.
Thirdly, it is important for the views and concerns 
of  small  States  to  be  incorporated  into  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Small  States  make  up  more 
than  half  of  the  United  Nations  membership;  many, 
especially  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS),  are 
among  the  more  vulnerable  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  family.  Singapore  identifies  closely  with    the 
urgent  concerns  of  our  fellow  SIDS.  The  third  SIDS 
Conference,  to  be  held  in  2014,  will  be  an  important 
milestone,  and  Singapore  has  participated  actively 
in  all  the  preparatory  meetings  to  date.  At  last  year’s 
inaugural  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  which  was  organized  by  the  Forum  of  Small 
States (FOSS), Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon agreed 
that  small  and  vulnerable  States  deserved  special 
attention.  Singapore  will  continue  to  work  with  the 
members  of  FOSS  to  share  the  perspectives  of  small 
States and ensure that our views are factored into the 
evolution of the new global development road map.
Although we are a small country, we will continue 
to play our part in assisting other countries in poverty 
eradication and furthering the sustainable development 
agenda.  We  established  the  Singapore  Cooperation 
Programme 
to  share  our  developmental 
experience with our friends — our successes and our 
failures  alike.  We  believe  that  technical  assistance 
and  capacity-building  are  more  effective  in  creating 
the  right  conditions  for  growth.  More  than  80,000 
in  1992 
13-48911
5/7
A/68/PV.20 
28/09/2013
Government officials from 170 countries have received 
training  under  the  Programme  in  areas  as  diverse  as 
sustainable  urban  development,  water  management 
and  human-resource  development.  To  support  our 
engagement  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
we  will  develop  and  customize  new  programmes  on 
sustainable development and climate change that meet 
the needs of SIDS and least developed countries.
Singapore  has  also  been  working  with  other 
Governments  to  promote  sustainable  development 
internationally. In 2007, Singapore and China embarked 
on  a  joint  project  to  develop  the  Sino-Singapore 
Tianjin  Eco-city,  which  is  envisioned  as  a  city  that 
will be socially harmonious, environmentally friendly 
and  resource-efficient.  That  will  become  a  model 
for  sustainable  urbanization  in  China.  By  2020, 
the  Eco-city  is  intended  to  be  a  low-carbon,  green-
living  environment  approximately  half  the  size  of 
Manhattan, housing around 350,000 people. Singapore 
will  continue  to  share  its  experience  in  sustainable 
urbanization through Singapore-led events such as the 
biennial  Singapore  International  Water  Week  and  the 
World Cities Summit.
The  only  way  to  secure  our  collective  future 
is 
through  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable 
development. The next two years will be critical for the 
world as we embark on an ambitious journey to map out 
the post-2015 agenda. The United Nations must play a 
leading  role,  and  we  are  fully  committed  to  working 
closely with other Member States to achieve that.
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  call  on  those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply. May I remind members that statements in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second intervention and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mrs.  Lalić  Smajević  (Serbia):  My  delegation 
would like to exercise its right of reply in response to 
the statement made today (see A/68/PV.18) by the Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Edi Rama.
We would like to take this opportunity to underline 
once  again  before  the  General  Assembly  that  the 
consolidation of regional peace, security and stability is 
a priority of the highest order for the Republic of Serbia. 
It is in that context that we would like to emphasize that 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  fully  shares  the  approach  and 
vision  of  the  Balkans  working  together,  as  the  Prime 
Minister  said,  in  spite  of  our  history  of  so  much  war 
and conflict.
Unfortunately,  in  his  statement  today  we  also 
heard  references  praising  a  unilateral  action  that 
constitutes  an  infringement  of  the  basic  principles  of 
the  Organization  and  a  clear  violation  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council, as well as being contrary to the core principles 
and  norms  of  international  law.  Such  an  approach 
is  counterproductive  and  runs  contrary  to  all  the 
efforts  that  have  been  invested  so  far  in  achieving  a 
sustainable  solution  to  the  situation  in  our  southern 
province  of  Kosovo  and  Metohija,  particularly  those 
made following the signing of the First Agreement on 
Principles  Governing  the  Normalization  of  Relations 
only six months ago.
Let  me  point  out  that  the  Agreement,  brokered 
through the significant facilitation efforts of Baroness 
Ashton,  the  High  Representative  of  the  European 
Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, provides 
a  framework  for  reaching  practical  and  sustainable 
solutions  to  the  issues  burdening  the  daily  life  of 
the  people  in  the  province  and  in  no  way  implies  a 
recognition by Serbia of a unilateral pact. As stated by 
the  President  of  Serbia,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tomislav 
Nikolić, Belgrade and Pristina have reached agreement 
only  over  clearly  defined  matters  such  as  municipal 
elections  and  the  establishment  of  the  community  of 
Serbian  municipalities  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  The 
Republic of Serbia has not and will not recognize either 
de jure or de facto the independence of Kosovo.
The  call  for  recognition  as  heard  today,  at  a  time 
when we are in the midst of investing efforts through 
courage  and  wisdom,  in  the  words  of  the  Prime 
Minister of Albania, is contrary to the ongoing process. 
Furthermore,  it  will  not  contribute  favourably  to  the 
strengthening  of  confidence  and  the  improvement  of 
relations between the States of the Balkans.
Finally, let me reiterate that the issue of resolving 
the  status  of  our  southern  province  is  one  of  my 
Government’s  foremost  priorities.  Time  and  again, 
we  have  demonstrated  our  readiness  and  willingness 
to  make  an  active  contribution  to  overcoming  the 
accumulated problems in the aforementioned political 
dialogue  in  Brussels.  My  country  has  shown  great 
flexibility in trying to bring about a solution acceptable 
to  all  and  one  that  takes  into  account  the  legitimate 
interests of all communities in Kosovo and Metohija.
6/7 
13-48911
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.20
Mr.  Alibabaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  In  his 
statement at this meeting, the Minister for Foreign of 
Affairs of the United Arab Emirates used a fabricated 
and unacceptable name for the term “Persian Gulf”. In 
exercising the right of reply, I would like to very briefly 
emphasize  that,  as  the  Assembly  is  certainly  aware, 
it  is  an  undisputed  historical  fact  that  the  full  term 
“Persian  Gulf”  has  always  been  used  as  the  standard 
geographical  designation  for  the  sea  area  between 
the  Arabian  peninsula  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran.  Countless  maps  drawn  by  various  regional  and 
international  institutions  in  the  past  several  hundred 
years  all  testify  to  that  point.  Moreover,  the  United 
Nations  practice  over  the  past  half-century  has  made 
it  crystal  clear  that  the  term  “Persian  Gulf”  is  the 
only  geographical  designation  applicable  to  that  body 
of  water  and  that  it  should  be  used  in  full  without 
any  exception  when  that  body  of  water  is  referred  to. 
Therefore, any use of a fabricated name for that body of 
water is totally groundless and absolutely unacceptable 
and without any legal basis whatsoever.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Arab 
Emirates also raised some unacceptable and unfounded 
claims  about  the  three  Iranian  islands  located  in  the 
Persian  Gulf,  namely,  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb  and 
Lesser  Tunb.  I  would  like  to  state  that  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran reiterates its full claim to sovereignty 
over the Iranian islands of Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and 
Lesser Tunb in the Persian Gulf and categorically rejects 
any claim to the contrary. My delegation underlines that 
the  measures  undertaken  in  those  islands  by  Iranian 
officials  have  always  been  based  on  the  principles  of 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of my country.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  also  pursued  a 
policy  of  friendship  and  good-neighbourliness  with 
its  neighbours.  In  that  context,  my  country  continues 
to stand ready to undertake bilateral discussions with 
the  relevant  officials  in  order  to  strengthen  those 
relations in various fields and accordingly resolve any 
misunderstanding between our two countries.
Mr.  Aljasmi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I am compelled to exercise the right of reply 
in response to the illegal and false allegations made by 
Iran claiming its sovereignty over islands that belong to 
the United Arab Emirates — Abu Musa, Greater Tunb 
and Lesser Tunb. In that regard, I would like to reiterate 
that  my  Government  has,  time  and  again,  expressed 
its  inalterable  position  with  respect  to  those  occupied 
islands.  We  express  our  strong  disappointment  over 
the annual statements made by the Iranian delegation 
in this Hall and the allegations that run counter to all 
historical  fact  and  to  the  demographic,  geographical 
and legal records that prove the ownership of the three 
islands by the United Arab Emirates.
Consequently, the United Arab Emirates will never 
abandon its legal, historical and political claim to those 
islands.  We  consider  them    to  be  under  our  national 
sovereignty and to be part and parcel of our territorial 
unity  and 
integrity.  We  express  our  categorical 
rejection of all escalating and illegal measures taken by 
the Islamic Republic of Iran with respect to the three 
islands in the course of the past four decades.
In conclusion, the United Arab Emirates reiterates 
its  appeal  to  the  international  community  to  urge 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  solve  the  problem 
through the means suggested previously, that is, direct 
negotiations, arbitration or recourse to the International 
Court of Justice, so that the matter can be decided in a 
manner that is consistent with international law.
Once again, we would like to repeat that stability 
and  economic  prosperity  in  the  Arab  Gulf  region 
necessitate  the  establishment  of  good-neighbourliness 
in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  respect  for 
the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  States  and  of 
non-interference in their internal affairs.
The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.
13-48911
7/7
