United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
13th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.13
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Picco (Monaco), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Ivo Josipović, President of the 
Republic of Croatia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Croatia.
Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivo Josipović, 
President of the Republic of Croatia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
like 
first 
I  would 
President  Josipović: 
to 
congratulate  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
on his election to that important position and express 
my  confidence  in  his  leadership.  It  is  also  my  great 
pleasure to address the Assembly for the first time as 
the  President  of  the  newest  European  Union  member 
State.
Our  debate  this  year  is  focused  on  an  issue  of 
paramount  importance  for  our  planet’s  future  —  the 
post-2015 development agenda. However, before sharing 
my views on that central issue, I would like to share my 
thoughts on a broader understanding of sustainability. 
touching  upon  one  of 
It is difficult, if not impossible, to outline sustainable 
development  without 
its 
essential prerequisites: peace and security. As a global 
community, we continue to witness, year after year, a 
plethora  of  deadly  and  prolonged  international  crises 
and new and emerging threats and conflicts. 
The ongoing security and humanitarian catastrophe 
in  Syria,  with  all  its  terrible  effects  and  potential  to 
destabilize  the  region,  is  naturally  foremost  on  our 
minds. We are saddened by the tremendous loss of life 
as a result of that ongoing conflict. We are particularly 
appalled and concerned by the findings and conclusions 
of the report of the United Nations Mission to Investigate 
Allegations  of  the  Use  of  Chemical  Weapons  in  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  on  the  alleged  use  of  chemical 
weapons in the Ghouta area of Damascus on 21 August 
2013  (A/67/997).  Croatia  condemns  in  the  strongest 
terms the use of chemical weapons. The international 
community  must  ensure  that  there  is  no  impunity  for 
such  crimes  and  that  the  perpetrators  of  those  and 
other  crimes  are  held  to  account.  In  that  connection, 
we  welcome  the  United  States-Russia  Framework 
for  Elimination  of  Syrian  Chemical  Weapons  of 
14  September.  The  priority  must  now  be  to  provide 
for its prompt and full implementation, starting with a 
process in the Security Council and the soonest possible 
adoption of a relevant Council resolution.
The United Nations was established at a time when 
the world was emerging from a period that had witnessed 
the worst atrocities of the twentieth century. In fact, it 
was established for the very purpose of ensuring that 
such atrocities would not happen again. While we can 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48662 (E)
*1348662*
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
and  often  do  debate  the  overall  effectiveness  of  the 
United  Nations  in  ensuring  international  peace,  it  is 
important  that  we  build  on  the  lessons  learned  from 
both past successes and past mistakes.
In that connection, allow me to highlight one such 
past  success.  January  this  year  marked  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations  Transitional  Administration 
for  Eastern 
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium in Croatia. It is 
considered to be one of the most successful peacekeeping 
operations  in  United  Nations  history.  The  mission 
was  able  to  peacefully  reaffirm  the  independence, 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of 
Croatia,  and  paved  the  way  for  normalizing  relations 
and cooperation in the region.
We  wholeheartedly 
Over  the  past  20  years  Croatia  has  undertaken  a 
long and demanding journey from being a host nation 
for a number of United Nations peacekeeping missions 
on its territory to a peacekeeping contributor. Today, we 
are  determined  to  continue  our  participation  in  many 
current  peacekeeping  and  peace-support  operations 
and  missions  around  the  world.  This  year  also  marks 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY). It is a well-known fact that Croatia advocated 
the establishment of the ICTY from the very beginning.
strong 
determination of the international community to finally, 
once and for all, put an end to the culture of impunity 
that  had  for  so  long  accompanied  wars  and  armed 
conflicts.  The  establishment  of  the  ad  hoc  criminal 
tribunals  changed 
international 
criminal  justice  and  paved  the  way  for  a  whole  new 
system,  with  the  International  Criminal  Court  at  its 
head. The establishment of the International Criminal 
Court  in  1998  can  be  regarded  as  one  of  the  most 
important civilization achievements in the last century 
and the beginning of a new era of accountability. That 
is why we are calling on those countries that have not 
yet decided to adopt the Rome Statute to do so as soon 
as possible.
supported 
the 
the 
landscape  of 
Our  own  experience  teaches  us  that  peace  often 
comes at a high price. Maintaining peace often entails a 
long-term and comprehensive commitment on the part 
of  the  international  community.  The  United  Nations 
recognized that fact in establishing the Peacebuilding 
Commission  (PBC)  in  2005.  Its  aim  is  to  direct  and 
sustain  the  attention  and  efforts  of  the  international 
community in post-conflict countries. Croatia’s interest 
and engagement in peacebuilding started some time ago 
and was further strengthened by our bitter experience 
in  recent  history.  From  the  very  beginning,  Croatia 
actively participated in and contributed to the work of 
the Peacebuilding Commission.
In the PBC we have focused on three different, yet 
mutually  reinforcing  areas  –  strengthening  security, 
stimulating  socioeconomic  prosperity  and  promoting 
human rights and gender equality. For example, as the 
current PBC Chair and in line with the Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  action  plan  for  2013,  Croatia  helped 
organize  a  joint  meeting  of  the  PBC  and  the  Global 
Compact  on  the  important  topic  of  business  for 
peacebuilding, which was held in June. Earlier today, 
Croatia,  as  PBC  Chair  and  in  cooperation  with  UN-
Women,  organized  a  high-level  ministerial  meeting 
on women’s economic empowerment in peacebuilding. 
The meeting emphasized the critical role of women in 
peacebuilding processes and the fact that empowering 
women in the economy is essential for realizing women’s 
rights and achieving broader development goals.
In  our  view,  progress  in  the  areas  of  security, 
development, the rule of law and human rights must go 
hand  in  hand.  We  would  especially  like  to  stress  the 
critical  importance  that  the  rule  of  law  plays  in  post-
conflict  peacebuilding  and,  therefore,  in  achieving 
lasting peace and sustainable development.
For  its  part,  Croatia  continues  to  follow  the  path 
of  promoting  an  open  and  pluralistic  democracy  as 
the  best  guarantee  for  safeguarding  the  human  rights 
of its citizens. We believe that democracy needs to be 
approached in a holistic manner. Human and minority 
rights, the rule of law, good governance and the fight 
against  corruption  are  intrinsic  to  democratic  values. 
Democracy is not only about civil and political rights; 
its focus is not only on free and fair elections, but also 
on economic, social and cultural rights.
to  seek 
the  upholding 
of  human  rights  standards  across  the  globe.  We 
particularly support the abolition of the death penalty, 
the implementation of anti-discrimination policies, the 
effective and full protection of the rights of the child and 
the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities. 
We  will  also  spare  no  effort  in  raising  awareness 
about  the  importance  of  upholding  and  improving 
women’s  and  minority  rights.  Croatia  fully  supports 
the  pivotal  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  human 
Croatia  will  continue 
2/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
rights  mechanisms,  in  particular  the  Human  Rights 
Council. For that reason, Croatia has presented its bid 
for  membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
period  of  2017-2019,  remaining  committed  to  making 
an active and substantial contribution to the activities 
and efforts of that very important United Nations body.
In the area of security, we consider the prevention 
of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
especially  proliferation  to  non-State  actors,  to  be  a 
global security priority. Croatia believes that successful 
non-proliferation is possible only through a combination 
of  diligent  work  at  the  national  level  and  the  widest 
possible  international  cooperation.  We  firmly  believe 
that adherence to multilateral non-proliferation treaties, 
as  well  as  participation  in  informal  non-proliferation 
initiatives, are an indispensable part of non-proliferation 
efforts. The most recent events in Syria are a horrible 
reminder  and  warning  of  how  important  it  is  that  all 
international  agreements  on  non-proliferation  be 
universally complied with.
Croatia is also very concerned about the issue of the 
uncontrolled  spread  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons 
and their excessive accumulation. We believe that those 
weapons present a great risk for the stability and security 
of  many  weak  and  fragile  areas  around  the  world.  A 
milestone in that area is the successful completion and 
opening for signature of the international Arms Trade 
Treaty, a uniquely drafted document establishing rules 
and criteria for trade in conventional arms. Croatia, as 
an original signatory State, would like to add its voice 
to those requesting urgent and universal adherence to 
the treaty and its expedited entry into force.
Nowadays we are witnessing all around the world 
the  heavy  toll  of  armed  conflicts  and  wars.  In  any 
humanitarian  crisis,  those  paying  the  highest  price 
for  the  conflict  are  civilians,  especially  women  and 
children.  We  commend  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
United Nations and other international donors to help 
civilians, and we are contributing to them as much as 
we can. 
Having been an aid recipient, we have learned that 
the  donor-recipient  relationship  can  be  effective  and 
efficient only if based on an equal partnership, mutual 
respect and understanding. Development cooperation is 
a multilevel process through which all sides can learn and 
grow. Croatia will continue focusing its donor activities 
on gender and child-sensitive issues, on maternal health 
and the prevention of mortality in children under 5, as 
well as on enhancing girls’ education.
In setting the stage for the post-2015 development 
agenda,  we,  as  a  global  community,  will  continue  to 
be confronted with many challenges, some of which I 
have  just  mentioned.  The  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) has provided us 
with  important  guidance  with  regard  to  establishing 
the goals and multilateral architecture necessary for its 
implementation. In that sense, we would like to express 
our  satisfaction  with  the  creation  of  the  High-Level 
Political Forum, which we hope will be a stepping stone 
in  the  establishment  of  a  strengthened  institutional 
architecture for sustainable development.
Scientists  warn  us  that  soon  we  will  need  two 
planets  to  keep  pace  with  the  consumption-driven 
growth  necessary 
to  sustain  our  ever-increasing 
population. While we agree that a transformative shift 
towards  more  sustainable  development  is  needed,  the 
question remains how to achieve that shift. Knowledge 
is  the  key.  The  science-policy  interface,  so  often 
highlighted  in  the  run-up  to  the  Rio+20  Conference 
and integrated into the vision of “The future we want” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  stands  as  a  crucial  link  to 
those innovative solutions.
To  achieve  a  sustainable  future,  we  need  a 
concurrent  base  of  strong  institutions,  solidarity, 
justice and social development, with an approach that is 
more targeted towards marginalized groups, including 
women’s empowerment, as well as a strong respect for 
the environment and innovative growth. 
Croatia  welcomes  the  already  widely  accepted 
view that education represents one of the main building 
blocks  in  every  society  and  is  a  crucial  driver  for 
development. I am proud to represent a country among 
the  States  championing  the  Global  Education  First 
Initiative. Croatia is fully committed to supporting the 
Initiative, and I would like to take this opportunity to 
call  upon  others  to  join  our  efforts  to  give  life  to  the 
Initiative’s goals.
On  1  July,  just  over  two  and  a  half  months  ago, 
Croatia  became  the  twenty-eighth  member  of  the 
European  Union  (EU).  One  of  the  primary  reasons 
that  my  country  strove  to  become  a  full  member  of 
the  European  Union  was  to  secure  a  safe,  democratic 
and  stable  future  for  ourselves  and  for  forthcoming 
generations.  Croatia 
that  EU 
enlargement  has  been  one  of  that  organization’s  most 
successful  and  productive  policies.  Because  of  that, 
we  believe  that  the  European  project  should  not  and 
cannot  stop  at  our  borders.  We  firmly  believe  in  the 
firmly  believes 
13-48662
3/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
strategic  importance  of  the  EU’s  enlargement  policy. 
It  must  be  continued  with  respect  to  all  countries  of 
the  Western  Balkans  —  based  on  their  individual 
merits — as it is the best option for long-term stability 
in the region. We strongly support all of the countries 
in our neighbourhood in their endeavours and believe 
that  their  efforts  towards  future  membership  of  the 
European Union will be successful.
It  is  important  to  understand  that  reconciliation 
and  cooperation  have  become  a  new  standard  for 
regional policies, and in that regard, we welcome closer 
collaboration  among  all  countries  of  South-Eastern 
Europe,  both  bilaterally  and  in  the  framework  of 
regional organizations and initiatives.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  address  the 
issue of United Nations reform. We believe that there 
is a need for true reform of the current United Nations 
structures and mechanisms if the United Nations is to 
achieve its ambitious goals and strengthen its capacity 
to meet new challenges.
The first area is Security Council reform. Croatia 
commends  the  persevering  commitment  of  Member 
States to the ongoing negotiating process and believes 
that  broader  understanding  of  sustainability  should 
find  its  place  in  that  context  as  well.  However,  any 
reform of the Council must not have a negative impact 
on  its  ability  to  perform  its  main  duties  and  meet  its 
primary  responsibilities.  Enlargement  of  the  Council 
is  closely  connected  with  the  reform  of  its  working 
methods,  while  the  continuing  veto  powers  of  the 
permanent five continues to raise numerous questions. 
That  is  why  such  reform  must  be  comprehensive. 
That having been said, it is Croatia’s position that any 
enlargement  should  take  place  in  both  the  permanent 
and the non-permanent categories of membership, with 
one  additional  non-permanent  seat  reserved  for  the 
group  of  Eastern  European  States.  That  would  more 
properly reflect the reality of international relations in 
the twenty-first century.
As a member of the Economic and Social Council, 
we intend to continue advocating a stronger and more 
efficient role for that main body in its efforts to seek 
solutions  to  the  most  significant  social  and  economic 
challenges of our time. The General Assembly and the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should  also  find  ways 
of  working  together  to  support  deliberations  on  the 
complex  matter  of  sustainable  development.  Within 
its broad, overarching mandate, the General Assembly 
remains  the  central  point  for  all  of  our  discussions. 
Croatia welcomes the focus at this year’s debate on the 
post-2015 development agenda.
in 
Finally, I would like to stress that we are all aware 
of  the  global  challenges  we  face  today.  As  a  global 
community, 
looking  for  sustainable  solutions, 
we  made  strong  commitments  at  last  year’s  Rio+20 
Conference,  and  we  will  need  to  make  new  ones  as 
we  proceed  with  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
To  achieve  all  of  that,  we  will  need  to  strengthen 
old  partnerships  and  create  new  ones,  both  between 
Governments  and  among  Governments  and  civil 
society  and  other  key  stakeholders.  In  that  respect,  it 
is our belief that the United Nations and its institutions 
offer the best chance to help meet those expectations. 
Let us, as its Member States, make the best use of all 
that it has to offer.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Croatia for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Christopher 
J.  Loeak,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Loeak:  It  is  my  honour  to  convey  to 
the Assembly the warm greeting of “Yokwe” from the 
Government and people of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands.
Every  September,  world  leaders  take  to  the  stage 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  broadcast  our  common 
concerns. But I am concerned that this poetic ritual too 
often hides the problem of political will. In January, the 
Secretary-General outlined two key political priorities 
for  leaders:  addressing  climate  change  risks  and  the 
4/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
growing insecurity within Syria. As autumn sets in, it 
is evident that efforts are falling short. 
This  year,  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
expressed  strong  concern  about  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  by  the  Syrian  Government  and  called  for 
leadership on the part of the members of the Security 
Council  to  resolve  that  threat.  While  I  am  optimistic 
about  recent  diplomatic  developments,  the  common 
international voice may come too little and too late for 
what could have already been prevented. That is only 
one example of a growing list of the tragic human costs 
of  inaction.  How  many  more  mistakes  will  the  world 
make in distant conference rooms? For how long can we 
turn a blind eye to realities and headlines?
Pacific  nations  are  now  dedicated  to  changing 
the  pace.  This  month,  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders 
adopted the Majuro Declaration for Climate Leadership.  
Although  many  of  our  States  are  small,  the  common 
responsibility  to  act  falls  on  all  Governments  and 
persons, no matter how different we are. 
The  Marshall  Islands  is  well  on  track  to  achieve 
the complete solarization of our outer islands — a goal 
we  are  meeting  with  assistance  from  Japan’s  Pacific 
Environment Community funds and from the European 
Union, Taiwan, Italy, France and other donor partners. 
The  entire  region  is  also  aggressively  cutting  its 
emissions through the Pacific New Energy Drive. The 
message to our partners, the world’s largest emitters, is 
clear. If we can do it, they can too. Climate change is 
a risk that demands direct political ownership, and it is 
high time that other leaders stand alongside the Pacific 
in  showing  the  statesmanship  so  urgently  needed. 
Simply repeating well-worn negotiation slogans has not 
got the world anywhere. It is time for new solutions. I 
strongly  urge  my  fellow  leaders  to  engage  eye  to  eye 
at  the  Secretary-General’s  climate  summit  next  year. 
Never has the need for true statesmanship been as dire.
Global efforts on climate change are falling short, 
and low-lying island nations, such as mine, are already 
paying  the  earliest  costs  of  what  is  fast  becoming  a 
global crisis. In every sense, the world must build for 
future  risks,  and  we  are  still  setting  course  based  on 
current  conditions,  as  is  often  the  case.  It  is  the  seas 
that are rising — not the islands that are sinking. I will 
not concede my own land or my nation; nor will I rest 
until my fellow world leaders have signed on to act, not 
just out of economic convenience, but out of a common 
responsibility of all to strive for upward momentum.
Our  Pacific  legacy  is  not  as  small  island  States, 
but  as  large  ocean  nations.  We  are  stewards  of  what 
is a truly global resource — our oceans and fisheries. 
Even a casual glance at a map reveals a world of deep 
and vast blue, and not only scientists but our own local 
communities see change in our waters. Local and global 
ocean  impacts  affect  not  only  every  region,  but  also 
global food security. I join with other Pacific leaders in 
urging dedicated treatment of the oceans as a post-2015 
United Nations sustainable development goal.
Pacific nations, including the States parties to the 
Nauru  Agreement,  are  leading  the  world  in  changing 
fishing practice. We are not only leading the world in 
advancing  sustainable  fisheries,  but  at  the  same  time 
boosting our own economic growth. Perhaps no other 
effort  or  region  is  such  a  strong  textbook  example  of 
sustainable  development  in  action.  But  for  all  of  the 
expressed plenary sympathies and common international 
responsibility, existing legal commitments to safeguard 
fisheries  all  too  often  fall  victim  to  the  short-term 
trade  interests  of  our  partners.  We  Pacific  leaders 
will sacrifice neither our resources nor our growth or 
livelihood for quick returns; our future generations are 
not for sale. The threat of harmful fisheries sanctions 
from distant fishing nations — perhaps as punishment 
for our conservation efforts — is hardly a helping hand 
either  to  our  regional  development  or  to  international 
food security.
Next  year’s  international  meeting  on  small  island 
States  and  development  partnerships,  to  be  held  in 
Samoa, will offer our political partners a moment for 
careful  reflection.  Is  the  global  thirst  for  rare  earth 
minerals  beneath  our  waves  and  is  the  hunger  for 
our  vast  fisheries  so  great  as  to  outstrip  our  rightful 
economic  development  and  our  conservation  efforts? 
Perhaps it is high time that island leaders set forward 
our 
island  vision  of  partnership  and  collaborate 
accordingly. We cannot forge progress through political 
will  alone.  Here,  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders  have 
forged a ground-breaking mutual dialogue to enhance 
and  improve  effective  United  Nations  partnerships  in 
our region. Those are not isolated words; already, the 
United Nations, together with our bilateral partners, is 
playing  a  valuable  role  in  working  with  the  Marshall 
Islands  to  recover  from  a  climate-driven  drought  and 
other coastal flooding emergencies.
But we need not wait for disasters. In every sector 
of  basic  development  and  environmental  efforts,  our 
door  is  open  for  increased  collaboration  among  the 
13-48662
5/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
United  Nations,  our  regional  resources  and  bilateral 
partners. The statements of sympathy in the plenary are 
all too often not translated into effective, island-tailored 
results.  Our  in-country  United  Nations  presence  still 
has  a  long  way  to  go  in  truly  delivering  as  one  and 
better addressing pressing threats. I encourage a direct 
discussion between the United Nations and our region 
on practical efforts to enhance in-country effectiveness 
and  collaboration.  No  one  people  or  nation  should  be 
passed over.
Even  as  the  United  Nations  enters  into  a  new 
discussion  in  setting  the  stage  for  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  improved  progress  towards  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  remains 
no  less  a  priority.  I  would  also  like  to  recognize  the 
contributions  that  Taiwan  has  made  in  helping  my 
country in efforts to achieve the MDGs.
Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders  have,  for  the  first 
time,  recognized  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
authorizing  nuclear-weapon  testing  during  the  Cold 
War  and  welcomed  the  recommendations  of  the 
United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur’s  recent  report 
(A/HRC/21/48/Add.1). Nuclear testing in the Marshall 
Islands is no mere historical event, but an international 
legacy that will stay with us for generations. While the 
bulk  of  the  unmet  responsibilities  still  rest  with  our 
historical Administering Power, the United States, the 
United  Nations  can,  for  its  part,  no  longer  ignore  its 
own role during the Trusteeship era. 
I  am  strongly  encouraged  by 
the  Secretary-
General’s  commitment  to  addressing  the  ongoing 
impacts  of  nuclear  testing  in  the  Pacific  and  look 
forward to practical steps in that regard.
is 
gratified 
to 
My  Government 
note 
that  —  with  solid  international  support  and  cross-
strait cooperation — the Republic of China on Taiwan 
has  increased  its  meaningful  participation  in  United 
Nations specialized agencies and mechanisms. We will 
continue to encourage positive interaction between the 
two sides of the Taiwan Strait in the international arena.
Too often, despite our own aspirations, we struggle 
to move inches when urgency demands miles. We wish 
to inform the Secretary-General that our political will 
stands  ready  and  that  our  hands  are  extended  for  a 
durable partnership.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro 
Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Equatorial Guinea, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  bring  to  this  sixty-eighth  session  of  the 
General Assembly the fraternal and friendly greetings 
of the people of Equatorial Guinea. We also bring our 
fervent desire for peace and prosperity for all countries 
in the world at this difficult time, when the international 
community has to deal with major challenges that are 
thwarting the aspirations of the peoples for well-being 
and happiness.
May I also extend my congratulations to Mr. John 
William Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda on his election 
to  preside  over  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
this session. We wish him all the very best and every 
success in his difficult task, and we assure him of our 
support and cooperation. We would also like to thank 
his predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for the excellent work 
he  carried  out  and  the  dynamic  style  with  which  he 
presided over the work of the Assembly at its previous 
session.
This sixty-eighth session is beginning its work on 
a tragic note, namely, the criminal and barbaric attack 
against innocent people in Kenya. It was an attack on 
a  supermarket,  a  mall,  which  is  a  peaceful  gathering 
place for people, which reflects the criminality of the 
perpetrators.  Equatorial  Guinea  strongly  condemns 
the  heinous  attack  against  the  freedom  and  dignity 
of  the  Kenyan  people,  which  also  retards  its  national 
6/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
development  and  violates  its  freedoms.  I  convey 
our  condolences  and  a  feeling  of  solidarity  to  the 
Government of Kenya and the families of the victims. 
We  also  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  take  severe 
measures against crimes of that nature.
Although the international community has become 
increasingly conscious of the importance of peace, we 
still see, unfortunately, that the United Nations has not 
yet  achieved  its  main  objectives,  namely,  a  peaceful 
and  developed  world,  one  ensuring  the  dignity  and 
well-being of all peoples in the world. Thus, despite the 
major efforts that have been made over the past 68 years, 
peace is still as yet an unrealized dream in many parts 
of the world. The sovereign equality of all States can be 
seen only in declarations of principles. Economic and 
social development has not yet been achieved by most 
States,  and  the  principles  of  cooperation  for  mutual 
benefit are being undermined in international relations.
At  the  same  time,  in  addition  to  that  disturbing 
situation, we see an increase in natural disasters, wars, 
terrorism and acts of violence, which take human lives 
and force large groups of populations from their homes. 
Hunger  haunts  almost  three  quarters  of  the  world’s 
population, and there are still major endemic diseases 
that  cause  many  deaths  in  less  developed  countries: 
they affect in particular the most vulnerable segments 
of society.
Against  the  backdrop  of  that  difficult  political, 
economic and sociocultural situation around the world, 
Equatorial  Guinea  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
efforts of the Secretary-General to preserve the noble 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to 
seek to achieve the goals set forth therein. However, the 
almost incomprehensible ideological tenor of relations 
among States creates almost a kind of cold war between 
those that proclaim themselves moral authorities and a 
majority that want freedom of action to determine the 
futures of their peoples.
As  far  as  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  is 
concerned,  questions  of  the  peace  and  security  of 
States  should  be  given  full  priority  and  consideration 
by the United Nations, since without peace, there can 
be no development, and without development it would 
be difficult to ensure human beings’ dignity, integrity 
and  freedom.  For  that  reason,  we  firmly  support 
the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts 
through  negotiation,  mediation  and  arbitration.  In 
that  connection,  we  would  like  to  commend  and 
acknowledge  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Tomislav  Nikolić, 
President of the Republic of Serbia, for presiding over 
the  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  held  in 
April of this year on the peaceful resolution of conflicts 
in Africa.
Equatorial  Guinea’s  political,  economic  and 
sociocultural  situation  is  positive  and  encouraging, 
because  our  country  enjoys  productive  peace  and 
stability and harmonious political development and is 
consolidating a genuine national democracy. All of that 
has  allowed  us  to  carry  out  significant  infrastructure 
work, enabling the people to participate directly in the 
country’s  overall  growth.  The  Government,  together 
with all the political institutions, is carrying out major 
political reforms, thanks to the agreements reached in 
the  binding  national  political  pact,  which  was  signed 
with  all  the  country’s  political  groups  and  which 
establishes  standards  for  the  political  conduct  of  all 
stakeholders  and  their  participation  in  public  affairs 
administration.  Happily,  the  people  of  Equatorial 
Guinea are aware of the changes in the areas benefiting 
them, and they recognize and support them.
At  the  international  level,  we  are  very  concerned 
about the negative effects of the so-called humanitarian 
interference from the United Nations, which, far from 
ensuring the human rights and well-being of the peoples 
affected, is more focused on imposing political systems 
and democracy based on unacknowledged interests. That 
interference is being carried out in total disregard of the 
sacred principles of national sovereignty and the dignity 
of peoples. Democracy is indeed the ultimate expression 
of natural law; it is also an act of the people’s sovereign 
will.  We  have  never  seen  any  country  in  the  world 
accept democracy when it was imposed on it. And why 
has it now become the excuse for intervening through 
force in conflicts within self-governing countries? That 
represents a provocation against our peoples, who are 
being  deceived  in  the  name  of  democracy,  while  the 
fundamental  attributes  of  independence  and  national 
sovereignty  are  disregarded,  provoking  civil  disorder, 
which leads to loss of life, social divisiveness and the 
destruction  of  basic  infrastructure,  which  is  difficult 
to rebuild. We see, therefore, that everything is easily 
traced to the neocolonialist activities of certain parties 
that wish to recover the resources that nature reserved 
for our countries.
Equatorial  Guinea  understands  and  agrees  that 
security  and  development  are  an  essential  whole,  and 
we  affirm  that  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human rights are intrinsically bound together, which is 
13-48662
7/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
why we disagree with the argument that indiscriminate 
destruction can be planned in order to then introduce 
reconstruction  and  reconciliation  at  somebody  else’s 
expense. In that belief and in the face of such hidden and 
complex plans, I am pleased to declare before this world 
forum that Equatorial Guinea and its Government are 
willing to host the next session of the United Nations 
Standing  Advisory  Committee  on  Security  Questions 
in Central Africa, at a suitable date to be agreed on by 
the parties.
Uncoordinated actions such as those I mentioned, 
which worsen global insecurity, are being carried out 
today, while the United Nations — whose role as arbiter 
and  conciliator  is  being  openly  flouted  by  special 
interests — looks on, powerless. Let us be honest with 
ourselves, because democracy, as a just and equitable 
system, should prevail in all the organs of the United 
Nations  system,  the  epicentre  of  the  international 
community, aspiring to peace, order and development. 
We  therefore  have  no  alternative  but  to  reform  those 
organs,  particularly  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to 
make  them  more  democratic,  so  that  they  can  protect 
the interests of every nation impartially.
Within  the  framework  of  efforts  to  meet  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  level  of  basic 
infrastructure that has been created and the policy of 
promoting social institutions in Equatorial Guinea have 
resulted  in  a  drop  in  the  number  of  cases  of  malaria 
and in infant and maternal morbidity and mortality; in 
lower illiteracy rates; better technical and professional 
training;  the  increased  empowerment  of  women;  the 
gradual  integration  of  persons  with  disabilities  and  a 
rise in the well-being of the people. Equatorial Guinea 
is  contributing  and  collaborating  actively  with  its 
North American partners, Noble Energy, Marathon and 
Sanaria, with a view to completely eliminating malaria 
through the development of a vaccine that will be ready 
for official use in 2017.
In  order  to  work  towards  the  main  objective  of 
the  theme  for  this  session,  which  is  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  Equatorial 
Guinea has adopted a development programme aimed 
at reaching the goals of an emerging country by 2020, 
which  is  now  our  priority.  We  therefore  believe  that 
Equatorial Guinea should move up gradually from its 
status as a least-developed country in order to achieve 
that new rank in 2020.
While  that  is  the  central  theme  of  this  session, 
to  which  we  all  must  give  our  support,  we  also  note 
that  the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
focused on the normalization of relations among States, 
not  only  by  adopting  appropriate  standards,  but  even 
more by ensuring that our States apply them.
strive 
towards 
to  move 
While the African continent and other developing 
countries 
sustainable 
development,  they  are  unfortunately  diverted  from 
their efforts and forced to address man-made conflicts 
that are fuelled by the surreal approaches to freedom, 
democracy and respect for human rights in Africa that 
certain  Powers  are  promoting.  We  are  not  convinced 
that the United Nations has adopted a particular model 
of democracy that is applicable to all States. Africa is 
more in need of special attention from the international 
community  to  ensure  its  security,  since  it  is  now  a 
breeding ground for terrorist operations, mercenaries, 
pirates and organized crime, due to the fragility of its 
structures.
The  United  Nations  should  not  cling  to  methods 
and  practices  that  do  not  resolve  conflict  or  meet  the 
desires  of  the  people  —  or  even  worse,  are  a  burden 
for them. We are referring here to the use of force and 
embargoes, which always inflict great suffering on the 
affected peoples and deprive them of their most basic 
rights. That was not the purpose for which the United 
Nations  was  established.  We  therefore  call  for  the 
lifting  of  the  embargoes  imposed  on  the  Republic  of 
Cuba and the Republic of Zimbabwe, as they harm the 
lives of their peoples.
With respect to armed conflict, the conflict between 
the Israelis and the Palestinians has demonstrated the 
inability  of  the  United  Nations  to  impose  solutions 
during  armed  hostilities.  However,  we  believe  that 
politically  influential  countries  of  the  Middle  East 
can  and  should  play  a  prominent  role  as  arbitrators 
and mediators between the parties to the conflict. The 
solutions  have  already  been  laid  out  by  the  United 
Nations,  and  all  that  is  needed  is  to  implement  them 
by ensuring respect for the limits set in 1967, because 
both  countries  must  coexist  and  need  clearly  defined 
borders.
Regarding 
the  situation 
in  Syria,  we  regret 
and  condemn  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  and  the 
escalation of violence fuelled by opaque interests that 
are  decimating  a  people  because  of  alleged  internal 
problems.  Wars  have  always  bequeathed  a  negative 
balance, and their victims tend to always be innocent 
people. That is why we ask for an immediate cessation of 
hostilities and the withdrawal of the countries involved 
8/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
in the conflict, in order to honour and respect the Syrian 
people  and  fulfil  the  United  Nations  responsibility  to 
maintain peace and security around the world. The only 
interventions should be pacification and the destruction 
of  chemical  weapons,  which  the  United  Nations  must 
demand of the Syrian Government.
Repetition  implies  concern,  and  indeed,  in  its 
creation  and  in  the  framework  of  its  Charter,  the 
United Nations is seriously committed to maintaining 
peace  and  security  in  the  world.  It  is  also  committed 
to  promoting  economic  development,  moral,  human 
and material welfare, and relations of friendship, trust 
and cooperation among nations. But far from achieving 
these  goals,  we  continue  to  experience  the  horrors  of 
war on a daily basis, and to allow people to go hungry 
and  nations  to  continue  to  live  with  the  threat  of 
instability and espionage.
It is high time for us to stop this global misery in its 
tracks and look to our past while moving forward in a 
spirit of solidarity to forge a world that fulfils the hopes 
of humankind for well-being and happiness.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the statement 
he has just made.
Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, 
President of the Federal Republic of Somalia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Somalia, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan 
Sheikh Mohamud, President of the Federal Republic of 
Somalia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Mohamud: It is an honour for me to be 
here  today,  as  this  it  is  my  first  time  addressing  this 
esteemed  and  respected  body,  the  General  Assembly, 
as President of Somalia. First, let me congratulate the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank 
the  United  Nations  for  its  unwavering  support  to 
Somalia.  On  10  September  2012,  when  I  was  elected 
President  of  Somalia,  it  was  the  first  time  that  we 
had  had  a  permanent  Government  following  22  years 
without  a  functioning  State.  Somalia  could  not  have 
completed the transition last year without the assistance 
of the United Nations and all the countries that stood 
with us during those difficult times.
One of the main purposes of the United Nations is 
to maintain international peace and security. Therefore, 
it  is  imperative  that  we  stand  together  to  ensure  that 
the  world  is  peaceful  and  stable.  Somalia  and  other 
countries  are  still  suffering  and  need  the  support 
of  friends,  allies  and  all  members  of  this  body,  who 
must  come  together  to  find  ways  to  overcome  all  the 
challenges that exist in this universe. 
It is time to reflect on our collective progress and 
the challenges and opportunities before us in our efforts 
to ensure that the world is free from conflict. I have no 
doubt that if we collectively work hard and understand 
the issue, become self-critical with our strategies and 
provide  all  the  necessary  support  and  assistance  to 
all  countries  that  are  struggling  to  bring  peace  and 
stability, we will prevail in achieving our main purpose 
in that universe. That struggle must be redoubled. 
We strongly condemn the cruel and terrible attack 
in Nairobi’s Westgate Mall and send our condolences to 
the Kenyan people and the Government. The Westgate 
shopping  mall  attack  in  Nairobi  demonstrates  to  the 
world a number of important points.
First, the battle against Al-Qaieda and its offshoots, 
such as Al-Shabaab in the Horn of Africa, is far from 
over.  Al-Shabaab  is  indeed  a  national  threat,  but  its 
consequences have negative impacts on the region and 
the entire world, not just for Somalia alone.
Secondly,  the  fight  against  Al-Shabaab  must  be 
fought on many fronts — military, economic, political 
and  ideological.  Military,  security  and  intelligence 
forces  are  crucial  elements  in  the  battle,  but  they  are 
only one part of the solution.
Thirdly,  Al-Shabaab  is  down  but  it  has  not  died. 
We now need the tools to finish the job, and we call on 
our  friends  to  remain  resolute  and  to  help  us  end  the 
situation. Our brave Somali forces, the African Union 
13-48662
9/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
Mission  in  Somalia  (AMISOM)  and  Ethiopian  forces 
need help in fighting our enemies inside Somalia, yet 
that is simply not enough. AMISOM must be reinforced 
and expanded. The small investment required for those 
enhancements is insignificant compared with the great 
expense  that  will  be  needed  later  if  the  international 
community  does  not  help  finish  the  job  right  now. 
Furthermore, we must not overreact but remain focused 
on  weakening  and  uprooting  the  terrorist  bases, 
militarily  and  ideologically.  In  doing  so,  we  must  not 
underestimate them, nor should we overestimate them 
and  fall  for  their  childish,  irresponsible  and  useless 
propaganda.
Those brutal terrorist organizations, wherever they 
may be — in Nairobi, Mogadishu or elsewhere in the 
world — have no mercy for humankind. But I reassure 
the Assembly that we will fight and defeat Al-Shabaab 
in the deserts and in the towns, on digital and on social 
media. We will fight them on the airwaves and in the 
newspapers.  We  challenge  them  in  schools,  colleges 
and universities, and we will overcome them. We have 
defeated them militarily on the battlefield, and we must 
now  defeat  their  poisonous  ideology  with  innovative 
strategies,  cutting-edge  technologies,  comprehensive 
education  and  vigorous  communication.  That  is  the 
commitment that we will fulfil, and I call on our partners 
to  remain  strong  and  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
Kenya  and  with  Somalia.  Only  if  we  remain  resolute 
and together will we prevail.
laying 
In just one year, the cornerstones of a new Somalia 
have  been  successfully  and  peacefully  laid  down.  We 
have made milestone achievements in security, public 
finance management, reconciliation, political outreach 
and 
the  foundations  of  good  governance 
with  appropriate  legislation  in  place.  The  federal 
Government of Somalia has now established the basis 
of  a  new  public  finance  management  system,  which 
we believe will enable our donors to agree to funding 
arrangements with the confidence that funds will reach 
their intended recipients.
That  is  at  the  heart  of  the  New  Deal  compact  we 
signed  in  Brussels  earlier  this  month.  The  compact 
represents  a  paradigm  shift  in  how  the  international 
community  engages  with  Somalia,  and  I  welcome 
that  transformation  wholeheartedly.  The  New  Deal 
will  help  Somalia  preserve  its  unity  and  sovereignty 
and lay a strong foundation, 22 years on, for building 
reliable, transparent and accountable functioning State 
institutions that are respectful of the fundamental rights 
and freedoms and equality of its citizens.
To succeed, the New Deal must be more than words 
and frameworks. It must deliver on the ground. There are 
huge  expectations  that  the  compact  will  revolutionize 
the  service-delivery  efforts  of  the  Government.  We 
need  to  transform  the  lives  of  our  people,  connect 
with our citizens and enhance their well-being. In the 
meantime,  we  have  started  a  campaign  to  revitalize 
service  delivery  in  districts  and  regions  throughout 
Somalia,  to  provide  health  care,  and  to  enable  access 
to clean water. We have launched, for the first time, an 
initiative called “Go to School”. Under its auspices, we 
are  planning  to  enrol  100,000  students  in  the  schools 
in  the  current  academic  year,  and  1  million  students 
will  eventually  be  in  school  within  the  coming  three 
years.  That  is  not  without  challenges,  but  we  commit 
ourselves and we will prevail.
On  the  other  hand,  I  would  like  to  present  to  the 
Assembly the political progress that we are making in 
Somalia. We believe that a political solution is the first 
step in building a stable governance framework in our 
country. We have begun to lay the foundations for the 
return of effective, stable and representative governance 
in Somalia, the cornerstone of lasting peace.
To  that  end,  Somalia  should  possess  a  full-
fledged  constitution 
reflecting  a  broad  national 
consensus  on  how  we  wish  to  govern  ourselves.  We 
must complete the establishment of our federal system 
and  advance  the  process  of  democratization  through 
the  development  of  a  multiparty  electoral  system. 
Accordingly,  our  Parliament  has  already  passed 
legislation  establishing  an  independent  Constitutional 
Review  and  Implementation  Commission,  as  required 
by the provisional Constitution. We must move quickly 
to put in place other critical statutory bodies, including 
a boundaries and federation commission and a national 
independent electoral commission, the tasks of which 
will  be  to  guide  our  thinking  and  inform  our  actions 
and decisions in order to complete Somalia’s journey to 
unity, stability and democracy.
In  March,  my  Government  signed  an  agreement 
with  the  authorities  in  Puntland,  framing  our  shared 
commitment  to  implementing  a  federal  system  of 
governance,  as  agreed.  On  27  August,  we  signed  an 
accord that establishes an interim Juba Administration, 
which  also  aspires  to  become  a  federal  member  state 
in  accordance  with  the  Constitution.  The  agreement, 
10/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
achieved after long months of painstaking negotiations, 
demonstrates  what  can  be  achieved 
the 
combination  of  Somali  political  leadership  and  the 
steadfast support of our close neighbours.
through 
We  have  begun  similar  processes  elsewhere 
in  Somalia,  establishing 
interim  administrations 
in  the  remaining  regions  to  pursue  the  twin  goals 
of  peacebuilding  and  State-building  across  many 
regions in Somalia. Members of Parliament have also 
played  a  key  role  in  all  of  those  processes,  working 
with  their  constituencies  and  serving  as  a  critical 
channel of communication between the people of their 
constituencies and the federal Government.
With the good offices of the Government of Turkey, 
we have continued our dialogue with the authorities in 
Somaliland, underscoring our determination to preserve 
the unity of the country, not by force and coercion, but 
through  dialogue,  mutual  respect  and  understanding. 
Somali  unity  must  be  more  than  a  rhetorical  device; 
it  must  preserve  and  promote  the  dignity,  equality 
and  legitimate  aspirations  of  all  Somali  citizens.  By 
adhering to such principles, we are confident that our 
dialogue  with  Somaliland  will  not  only  continue,  but 
will eventually bear fruit.
Those  are  major  milestones,  but  enormous 
challenges  still  lie  ahead.  These  challenges  were 
clearly articulated by the participants at the Vision 2016 
Conference  convened  on  2  September  in  Mogadishu, 
where some of the best minds in the country and from 
Somali  communities  living  abroad  came  together 
to  offer  their  remarkable  experience,  insights  and 
expertise  in  charting  the  way  forward  for  the  future 
of Somalia. At another major gathering just last week 
in  Mogadishu,  respected  Somali  religious  leaders 
and  elders  from  across  the  country  announced  their 
determination to have a future free from the intolerance 
and extremism that have taken root in recent years.
We are committed to ensuring that, in the course 
of the daily struggle to rebuild our country, we do not 
lose  sight  of  the  longer-term  challenges  ahead.  We 
are  announcing  the  Vision  2016  initiative,  which  is 
a  concerted  effort  under  my  leadership  to  complete 
the  Constitution,  organize  the  federal  system  and 
prepare the ground for elections in 2016. We will need 
direction,  determination,  discipline  and  human  and 
financial resources if we are to succeed as we roll out 
the concrete objectives and benchmarks set forth in the 
initiative.
Finally, people may ask why Somalia matters at this 
time, but there is a huge amount at stake right now — the 
future of our country, the security of the region and the 
wider world, in the light, in particular, of the war against 
Al-Qaida  in  Somalia  and  the  removal  of  the  piracy 
stranglehold on the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean, 
which  are  indeed  challenges  that  we  share  with  the 
world. The progress that has been made in Somalia on 
those critical issues over the past years would not have 
been  possible  without  the  courageous  support  of  the 
member countries of the Intergovernmental Authority 
on Development, the African Union through its troop-
contributing countries, and the ultimate sacrifice made 
by many brave African soldiers. We pay tribute to them, 
and we owe it to their memory to ensure that we do not 
take a single step backwards.
I would equally like to thank the European Union 
for its leadership in organizing the recent conference in 
Brussels. I would also like to thank the Member States 
that not only made the commitment to take part in the 
meeting,  but  also  showed  great  generosity  in  making 
pledges to help the development and reconstruction of 
Somalia. We hope that others will do as they have done.
We  welcome  the  new  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Somalia (UNSOM), with which we are now 
working  to  bring  peace  and  stability  to  the  country. 
UNSOM is doing a great job, and we look forward to 
addressing  all  outstanding  issues  together.  UNSOM 
has shown a commitment to bringing its offices back to 
Somalia. Tragically, the extremists, who are terrified of 
progress, were able to kill innocent people in an attack 
against  the  United  Nations  compound  in  Mogadishu. 
I  offer  my  sincere  condolences  to  the  United  Nations 
and  the  families  of  the  victims.  The  United  Nations 
has  reacted  mindfully  and  reiterated  its  support  for 
Somalia. I thank the Organization for that courage and 
commitment.
War is something we Somalis have experienced too 
much of in recent years, and we feel particular sadness 
when we look at Syria and see our brothers embarking 
on a civil war that will only bring the ruin of the country. 
It is much easier to start a war than to end one. After 
two years, the conflict in Syria is already entrenched. 
Hatred  has  taken  hold  of  the  hearts  of  too  many  men 
and women, while a new generation of children has to 
endure a childhood full of suffering, with no education.
As  a  Somali  who  has  lived  through  the  world’s 
longest,  most  devastating  civil  war,  I  can  speak  with 
13-48662
11/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
bitter  experience  of  the  legacies  of  war.  We  must  not 
allow the use of chemical weapons against human beings 
in war or otherwise, let alone against children, women 
and  vulnerable  people.  The  international  community 
must  assume  its  responsibility  and  send  a  powerful 
massage to those who are responsible for the continued 
conflict  in  Syria.  We  must  continue  to  encourage  all 
sides  in  Syria  and  their  international  allies  to  realize 
that  the  only  way  out  of  the  tragedy  is  dialogue  and 
negotiation.
Before I conclude, let me reiterate that impunity has 
no place in the world, but selective justice and targeted 
trials  are  against  the  principles  of  peace,  justice  and 
reconciliation. Regrettably, the trials of African leaders 
at  the  International  Criminal  Court  have  become 
politically  motivated, 
in  contravention  of  agreed 
objectives  and  principles.  As  a  result,  the  wounds  of 
conflict  remain  unhealed  and  the  national  unity  and 
cohesion of many African countries is jeopardized.
I would like to conclude by thanking the General 
Assembly and paying tribute to the dedicated support 
of its members. Together we can make Somalia strong 
again.  We  have  planted  the  seeds  of  a  new  Somalia. 
We wish to see it grow into a tree standing tall in the 
African bush, with deep roots binding it securely to its 
region and offering shade and protection to its people 
as they rebuild their lives.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Federal Republic of Somalia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  President  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Manuel Serifo Nhamadjo, Interim 
President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Interim 
President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau.
Mr. Manuel Serifo Nhamadjo, Interim President of 
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Manuel Serifo 
Nhamadjo, Interim President of the Republic of Guinea-
Bissau, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Nhamadjo (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text provided by the delegation): I would like to begin 
my  statement  by  congratulating  Ambassador  John 
William Ashe on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I would also like to 
extend our congratulations to his country, Antigua and 
Barbuda, which is honoured by the selection of one of 
its sons to preside this year over the most representative 
world institution. 
The  President  carries  on  his  shoulders 
the 
responsibility for guiding the work of the current session 
of the General Assembly at a time that all consider to be 
politically very critical for the international community. 
Indeed,  the  reality  that  the  international  community 
faces  today  is  that  of  a  world  troubled  by  dangerous 
global  geopolitical 
international 
financial and economic crisis that is deeper and wider 
than  any  we  have  seen  since  the  1930s.  The  intensity 
of  the  crisis  has  thrown  millions  of  people  onto  the 
unemployment rolls and created millions of new poor 
throughout the world. 
tensions  and  an 
There are new fears, new dangers and new threats 
around  the  world  —  from  transnational  terrorism 
to  arms  and  drug  trafficking  as  well  as  frightening 
interfaith tensions that often result in bloodshed. Other 
dangers  include  the  return  of  brutal,  old-style  piracy 
to  the  modern  age,  not  only  off  the  coast  of  Somalia 
but also in the Gulf of Guinea, threatening important 
routes through which oil is transported to fuel the world 
economy,  creating  insecurity  for  the  international 
merchant  marine  and  facilitating  illicit  fishing  and 
all  manner  of  illegal  maritime  trafficking  in  arms, 
human beings and psychotropic substances; persistent 
outbreaks  of  ethnic  violence  that  cause  enormous 
human  suffering;  and  unimaginable  humanitarian 
disasters in various areas.
I come from a small country on the westernmost tip 
of the African coast. We are a poor country, but we have 
not  lost  the  hope  of  achieving,  in  peace,  the  progress 
to which we are entitled. Two days ago we celebrated 
the fortieth anniversary of our national independence, 
so this is a good time for us to reaffirm the following: 
during the entire period of armed struggle for national 
liberation,  the  people  that  I  represent  believed  in  the 
United Nations and in international law, and my country 
12/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
today reiterates, maintains and further reinforces that 
belief.
We achieved national independence in 1973. It was 
not given to us by anybody but became possible only 
as a result of the international solidarity of some and, 
ultimately, the recognition of all. 
To all without exception, I wish, on behalf of Guinea-
Bissau,  to  express  our  feeling  of  eternal  gratitude,  to 
declare our firm desire to strengthen longstanding ties 
of  friendship  and  to  affirm  our  willingness,  despite 
all  that  has  transpired,  to  rebuild  the  foundations  of 
solidarity that united our peoples in the past.
From this rostrum I ask for the Assembly’s patience 
and understanding and hope for its solidarity. I believe 
that expressions of generosity are in no way inconsistent 
with the cold rationality of relations among sovereign 
States.  I  am  the  Interim  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau, and that title, as the Assembly is well 
aware, indicates something particular and exceptional.
Indeed, the political and military events of 12 April 
2012 created a new political environment in my country. 
A military coup had ousted the interim President of the 
Republic  and  a  self-suspended  Prime  Minister  who 
had launched an inconclusive campaign to run for the 
presidency.  Faced  with  that  situation,  we  wondered 
what to do.
Fortunately, the best option available at the time, in 
our opinion, ultimately prevailed. We were able to avoid 
political problems that, had they taken hold, could have 
thrown the country into a political and military tailspin 
with consequences that would have been unpredictable 
and  certainly  much  graver  than  those  we  nonetheless 
had to face and, in some ways, continue to face.
We therefore had to circumscribe the dynamics of 
the military coup, control its political effects and limit 
its institutional reach, and, as if that were not enough, 
we had to deal with two opposing positions that emerged 
both internally and abroad.
One of them was deeply detrimental to the peaceful 
return  to  constitutional  normality  in  my  country,  but 
the  other  was  much  more  realistic  and  thus  more 
promising  in  terms  of  the  gradual  re-establishment 
of  constitutional  order.  We  had  to  deal  with  the  first 
so-called  position,  which  was  both  curious  and 
dramatic.  That  position  was  taken  by  people  who 
would have preferred to see the worst possible situation 
in  Guinea-Bissau.  Why?  They  were  betting  on  the 
degradation of the political situation in my country in 
order  to  justify  their  views,  confirm  their  predictions 
and  operationalize  their  political  concepts  of  how  to 
resolve the crisis in Guinea-Bissau. Indeed, they made 
every  attempt  to  apply  the  formula  of  “the  worse  for 
Guinea-Bissau, the better” — the better to serve their 
own interests. With such a radical position, they were 
truly able to touch the deepest sensibilities of a people 
that is humble but refuses to be humiliated.
We are a true democracy, notwithstanding all our 
flaws, the violations of the democratic purpose of the 
State and the many detours taken. We are the first to 
recognize that. But we must not forget that we are, first, 
a State born out of centuries of pain and hope and of a 
hard and victorious struggle for national independence, 
which has had a strong influence on the determination 
of the political values to be defended.
In  order  to  enable  the  second  option  on  the  table 
to  go  forward,  we  were  able  to  rely  on  the  realism 
and prompt solidarity of the Economic Community of 
West  African  States  (ECOWAS).  With  the  important 
support  of  the  Security  Council,  ECOWAS  became 
solely  responsible  for  managing  the  agreed  transition 
period  and  created  a  reduced  stabilization  military 
mission that became known as the ECOWAS Mission 
in Guinea-Bissau.
institutional 
levels, 
At 
the  political  and 
the 
parliament elected by the people of Guinea-Bissau — the 
National People’s Assembly — remained standing and 
thus was able to provide the political transition with a 
legitimate and legitimizing institutional basis. In fact, 
the Constitution of the Republic was never suspended.
That  is  the  origin  of  the  office  of  the  Interim 
President of the Republic. It did not come from a military 
coup.  It  came,  rather,  from  an  elected  Parliament  and 
therefore  from  a  political  and  institutional  process. 
That makes all the difference.
Mr. Deng (South Sudan), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
I combined the position of Member of Parliament, 
elected  to  the  position  four  times  in  a  row,  with  that 
of First Vice-President of that body of sovereignty: in 
other words, all modesty aside, I am a democrat with a 
mature conviction and never carried out a coup d’état or 
ordered any such action.
Indeed,  with  the  inauguration  of  the  Interim 
President of the Republic, the political transition process 
13-48662
13/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
per se began. After some time, Parliament approved the 
revised transition pact and the corresponding political 
agreement.  Later  on  it  approved  the  programme 
and  general  budget  for  the  State,  submitted  by  a 
Government  with  a  broad  political  base,  which  I,  as 
Interim  President  of  the  Republic,  had  appointed  and 
installed by presidential decree.
With  those  steps,  the  political  transition  truly 
took  off.  I  have  signed  a  presidential  decree  setting 
24  November  as  the  date  for  the  legislative  and 
presidential elections. What remains, which is no small 
task, is to ensure the availability of funds to carry out 
an  effective,  transparent  and  unquestionable  electoral 
process.  To  that  end,  we  must  create  reliable  voter 
registries,  something  that  can  be  accomplished  only 
through an accurate census or voter registration process. 
That is where the political transition in Guinea-Bissau 
stands.
Guinea-Bissau  is  the  victim  of  two  dramatically 
interlinked  evils:  poverty  and  political  instability.  In 
a  society  such  as  that  of  my  country,  poverty  creates 
a  propensity  for  political  instability.  In  turn,  political 
instability  has  an  impact  on  the  economic  order, 
reduces  the  rate  of  growth  and  thus  increases  the 
poverty  rate.  The  challenge  ahead  consists  precisely 
of  escaping  the  two  traps  of  poverty  and  political 
instability.  Overcoming  this  challenge  obviously  goes 
well  beyond  the  goals  for  this  exceptional  period  of 
political  transition.  Therefore,  in  that  regard,  we  will 
not go into further detail. 
In the light of this enormous economic and political 
liability,  which  has  yet  to  be  resolved,  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  within  a  given  time 
frame  is  truly  beyond  our  means,  for  the  foreseeable 
future at least. But this recognition does not mean that 
the  Government,  civil  society  and  Guinea-Bissau’s 
bilateral  and  multilateral  development  partners 
in  general, 
including  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies, have given up on the effort. On the contrary, 
in education, health, gender-equality policies, the fight 
against poverty, environmental policies for sustainable 
development,  and  other  areas,  our  country  has  made 
progress,  though  moderate  and  below  satisfactory 
levels.
With respect to the outcome document of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
entitled  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288, 
annex), Guinea-Bissau will make every effort to carry 
out the commitments undertaken. We hope that the more 
developed countries, our partners, will do their part in 
the fight against poverty, one of the greatest scourges 
afflicting States such as Guinea-Bissau, which are very 
fragile and therefore very vulnerable, and still suffering 
from the grave consequences of armed conflict.
Guinea-Bissau  supports 
the  establishment  on 
24  September  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development. It replaces the Commission 
on  Sustainable  Development  and  will  develop  the 
United  Nations  post-2015  development  agenda.  As  a 
country of many islands, Guinea-Bissau welcomes the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  convene  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, in Samoa, in September 2014.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  United 
Nations,  and  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
in 
particular,  for  their  dedication  to  our  country  and  for 
appointing former President of Timor-Leste José Ramos-
Horta  as  United  Nations  Special  Representative  and 
Head  of  the  United  Nations  Integrated  Peacebuilding 
Office  in  Guinea-Bissau.  Mr.  Ramos-Horta  has  made 
excellent contributions to the political normalization of 
our country. 
The State of Guinea-Bissau is not oblivious to the 
evolution  of  the  international  political  environment. 
Guinea-Bissau has never been indifferent to the hopes 
and  suffering  of  people  all  over  the  world.  In  that 
regard,  we  stand  firm  in  solidarity  with  our  brothers 
in  ECOWAS.  We  wish  the  people  of  Mali  the  best  of 
luck. Mali has just demonstrated its immense maturity 
by  going  to  the  polls  during  recent  general  elections 
with civic pride, marking the end of a period of political 
transition.  That  also  sent  a  strong  starting  signal 
for  national  reconciliation  and  efforts  to  rebuild  the 
country, which was destroyed by acts of terrorism and 
unacceptable irredentism. We take this opportunity to 
congratulate France on its crucial role in safeguarding 
the integrity of Malian territory, which is the foundation 
of the country’s sovereignty.
We repudiate the terrorist attacks that have taken 
place  in  Nigeria  and  Kenya,  spurred  by  radicalism  in 
the  name  of  religious  intolerance.  We  offer  our  full 
support  to  the  sister  nations  of  Nigeria  and  Kenya, 
Presidents  Goodluck  Jonathan  and  Uhuru  Kenyatta, 
their Governments and the families of all the victims. 
We  hope  that  neighbouring  Guinea  undergoes  a 
successful  electoral  process,  paving  the  path  for  true 
national reconciliation in that country. 
14/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
In  Egypt  and  Syria,  which  has  been  ravaged  by 
war, we hope that dialogue and diplomacy prevail over 
force,  so  that  we  can  avoid  sacrificing  more  human 
lives.  In  the  Middle  East,  we  continue  to  defend  the 
Palestinian cause with as much conviction as ever. It is 
crucial for the Palestinian people in particular, and for 
political stability and peacebuilding in the Arab world 
in  general,  that  negotiations  between  the  Palestinian 
authorities and the State of Israel advance towards the 
creation of a sovereign Palestinian State, in accordance 
with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations.
As to Europe, we offer a special word of recognition 
to France, which has never abandoned us and continues 
very  actively  to  seek  better  ways  of  helping  Guinea-
Bissau  overcome  a  political  crisis.  We  also  thank  the 
Kingdom  of  Spain,  whose  Ambassador  to  the  United 
Nations  has  been  instrumental  in  efforts  towards 
political normalization. Our friend Timor-Leste, a small 
country within the Community of Portuguese-Speaking 
Countries (CPLP), has exhibited an admirable spirit of 
cooperation  with  Guinea-Bissau,  demonstrating  that 
friends do come through in the most difficult of times. 
The  Timorese  authorities  have  understood  the  very 
simple fact that supporting an institutional process of 
political normalization is not the same as supporting a 
coup d’état. It is, indeed, quite the contrary. 
We  very  much 
thank  President  Armando 
Guebuza,  current  President  of  the  CPLP,  for  his  fair 
assessment  of  the  political  process  in  Guinea-Bissau, 
for  his  encouragement  and  for  appealing  to  the 
international  community  to  provide  financial  support 
for  general  elections  in  Guinea-Bissau.  We  also  take 
this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Murade  Murargy, 
a  Mozambican  national  who  currently  serves  as  the 
Executive  Secretary  of  CPLP,  for  his  dedication  to 
the political normalization process in our country. We 
hope one day, and perhaps one day soon, to see a full 
normalization of our relations with the countries of the 
CPLP, which is in the interests of all our peoples and 
sovereign States. 
With respect to Cuba, we call, as we have always 
done,  for  an  end  to  the  decades-long  embargo  and 
for the advancement of the reforms under way in that 
friendly nation, with which we have so many and such 
deep ties of friendship and solidarity.
With  respect  to  Asia,  we  wish  to  express  our 
profound  gratitude  to  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
for the extent and intensity of its cooperation with our 
country.  The  fruits  of  this  cooperation,  particularly 
in the construction of key public buildings, will enter 
history as indelible symbols of a friendship that dates 
back to our armed struggle for national liberation. 
We express the profound gratitude of the people of 
Guinea-Bissau to Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire and current President of 
ECOWAS,  and  to  Mr.  Goodluck  Jonathan,  President 
of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria  and  President  of 
the International Contact Group on Guinea-Bissau, as 
well as to all the Heads of State and Government of the 
member countries of ECOWAS.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Interim President of the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr. Manuel Serifo Nhamadjo, Interim President of 
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. James Wani Igga, Vice-President 
of the Republic of South Sudan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of South Sudan.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  James  Wani  Igga, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Igga  (South  Sudan):  It  is  a  great  honour 
for  me  to  address  the  Assembly  for  the  first  time  as 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan.
like 
to  express 
First,  I  would 
the  heartfelt 
condolences of the Government and the people of South 
Sudan to the people and the Government of the Republic 
of  Kenya,  in  particular  the  families  of  those  affected 
by the brutal and inhuman act of terror in the Kenyan 
capital, Nairobi. We condemn all acts of terrorism and 
pledge  our  full  cooperation  and  support  to  all  efforts 
13-48662
15/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
geared towards ridding the region and indeed the globe 
of terrorism.
picture of how well the country is run in our nine other 
states besides Jonglei.
the  countries  of 
I  convey  sincere  my  gratitude,  as  well  as  that 
of  President  Kiir  Mayardit  and  the  people  of  South 
Sudan, to the United Nations, in particular the Security 
Council, 
the  Intergovernmental 
Authority on Development, the Troika, and all people 
of  goodwill  for  diplomatically  helping  us  to  bring  to 
an end to the conflict that had devastated our country 
for  decades.  We  are  grateful  in  particular  to  the 
international  community  for  closely  monitoring  the 
difficult implementation of the peace accord. Given the 
complexity of the issues involved, the implementation 
of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) has been 
relatively successful, although the protocols of the two 
states of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, the case of 
the contested area of Abyei, and the demarcation of the 
borders between South Sudan and the Sudan continue 
to impede the full implementation of the peace accord.
Our  country  is  well  endowed  with  abundant 
natural  resources.  Our  relations  with 
the  Sudan 
have  recently  involved  unexpected  tensions,  with 
intermittent suspensions of oil flow through the Sudan. 
Inside  the  South  itself,  old  quarrels  dating  back  to 
time  immemorial  have  re-emerged  among  certain 
communities  over  cattle-grazing  and  water  points. 
This became complicated during the last war as guns 
of  various  calibre  fell  into  the  hands  of  unauthorized 
civilians.  We  are  working  hard  as  a  Government  to 
entrench peace in all corners of South Sudan. We have 
established  programmes  to  rehabilitate  and  integrate 
former rebel groups into our armed forces and society 
at large.
We have to build a country literally from scratch, 
with  non-existent  physical  and  social  infrastructure. 
This  has  given  us  the  worst  human  development 
indicators  in  the  world,  including  high  maternal  and 
infant mortality rates and high illiteracy rates among a 
population of over 8 million.
While  we  recognize  that,  as  humans  and  as  a 
Government, we must have made errors of judgment as 
we sought to fix a war-devastated country, successful 
steps  have  also  been  taken,  and  we  appeal  for  the 
goodwill  shown  to  us  in  those  times  of  difficulty  to 
continue. We are confronted with the test of adherence 
to human rights as a consequence of malicious action 
by external hands, rather than of our own making. We 
commend  any  objective  criticism  and  we  call  on  the 
experts  on  South  Sudan  also  to  appreciate  the  bigger 
We  are  presently  running  a  Government  with 
acceptable  standards  of  competence.  A  decentralized 
system  of  governance  is  the  outcome  of  a  conscious 
decision  taken  by  South  Sudan’s  political  leadership, 
as  enshrined  in  the  2011  transitional  Constitution,  to 
build  a  broad-based  democracy  in  the  post-conflict 
setting. We set up the 10 states with popularly elected 
governors and democratic legislatures as a nucleus of 
good governance. In 2010, President Kiir Mayardit was 
democratically and overwhelmingly elected. Our noble 
struggle was to actualize the ideals and values of true 
democracy, so cherished by our people.
According  to  our  Constitution,  the  next  elections 
will  be  held  in  2015.  Indeed,  on  18  September,  our 
President  publicly  confirmed  the  date.  The  governing 
party, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) 
will hold another general convention in March 2014 to 
freely  elect  its  structures  in  preparation  for  the  2015 
national general elections.
Let  me  turn  to  the  issue  of  women.  Women  have 
suffered discrimination since 1956, with a literacy rate 
hardly reaching 18 per cent. The SPLM as a ruling party 
is now raising women’s political participation from the 
25 per cent in the current Constitution to a minimum 
of 35 per cent in the proposed permanent constitution.
In recent years, the National Legislative Assembly, 
of which I was twice elected Speaker and where I served 
a total of eight years, enacted a good number of laws, 
including the Petroleum Revenue Management Act and 
the Investment Act, among many others, setting out clear 
rules  on  how  we  can  efficiently  and  prudently  spend 
our oil revenues. With the support of our development 
partners in the region and internationally, we have now 
embarked  on  the  development  of  our  infrastructure. 
Numerous infrastructural projects are under way. 
In  response  to  the  oil  shutdown  last  year,  the 
implemented  austerity  measures.  We 
Government 
reduced  Government  spending  by  40  per  cent,  and  at 
the  moment  we  have  considerably  increased  non-oil 
revenue collection. We take seriously our responsibility 
to  ensure  that  public  funds  are  properly  utilized  and 
that our spending is rigorously monitored. We are thus 
determined  to  uncompromisingly  fight  practices  of 
maladministration, including corruption.
We deeply regret the loss of the lives of the Indian 
peacekeepers,  the  Russian  helicopter  crew  and  the 
16/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
Kenyan  and  South  Sudanese  relief  workers  in  Pibor 
county. We express our condolences to the families and 
the Governments of those who lost their lives. We wish 
to assure the international community that such tragic 
incidents will not be repeated.
Jonglei state, the most populous, with inaccessible 
terrain,  has  been  of  particular  concern  to  us  as  a 
Government as well as to the international community. 
There is no doubt about that. It has serious security and 
infrastructural  impediments.  We  regret  the  security 
impediments  in  Jonglei  and  assure  the  international 
community  of  our  Government’s  determination  to 
transform  our  army,  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation 
Army  (SPLA),  into  a  professional  national  army 
that  respects  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  and  is 
committed to the protection of civilians. 
The President has declared a general amnesty for 
the  rebel  groups,  and  already  two  large  groups,  one 
under  General  Bapin  and  the  second  under  General 
Johnson  Oluny,  have 
responded  positively.  The 
President has also ordered the mandatory disarmament 
of the civilian population and has taken legal steps to 
punish  the  perpetrators  of  human  rights  violations  in 
Jonglei, including an SPLA Brigade Commander, who 
is now under arrest together with 13 soldiers who have 
been sentenced to prison terms that range from three to 
five years. To date 84 cases of human rights abuses have 
been tried in the courts of law. We are determined to 
see that the violations committed by some indisciplined 
SPLA elements do not go unpunished. 
Recently  the  Government  formed  a  peace  and 
reconciliation  committee  headed  by  top  religious 
leaders to promote dialogue with all groups, including 
rebel groups in Pibor county.
The  Government  has  allowed  the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  South  Sudan  (UNMISS),  the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA) 
and  other  humanitarian  bodies  unhindered  access  to 
all  parts  of  the  country,  including,  of  course,  Jonglei 
state.  Regarding  the  situation  in  Pibor  county,  which 
has  been  of  particular  concern  to  all  of  us,  we  have 
determined,  thanks  to  UNMISS  and  OCHA,  the 
number of people who are currently registered for food 
distribution  in  various  camps  for  internally  displaced 
persons and villages. If that number is compared with 
the  pre-conflict  population  of  Pibor  county,  we  could 
now be relatively relieved at the fact that most of those 
who  had  been  unaccounted  for  are  in  fact  alive  and 
receiving  much-needed  humanitarian  assistance  from 
United Nations agencies and other organizations. 
Out  of  the  total  population  of  approximately 
140,000  in  Pibor,  for  instance,  nearly  100,000  people 
have been identified in the Pibor bush alone, along with 
another  10,000  in  Juba  City  and  26,000  registered  as 
refugees  in  neighbouring  countries.  We  appeal  from 
this rostrum for expeditious relief assistance in various 
forms.
Another urgent security demand is the training of 
a  police  force  capable  of  eliminating  the  high  rate  of 
crime we are experiencing in Pibor county and, indeed, 
the entire country. UNMISS, to which we express our 
profound appreciation, has helped transform hundreds 
of former combatants into a police force conscious of 
the rule of law. UNMISS is doing a very commendable 
job under its able leadership. The rate of crime caused 
by the proliferation of small arms has been alarming. 
While our police force has managed to apprehend many 
criminals,  others  are  still  at  large.  The  Government 
is  committed  to  erasing  this  menace.  We  refute  any 
allegation to the effect that such violations are deliberate 
and systematic orchestrations.
Our relationship with the Sudan has been a mixture 
of  cooperation  and  squabbles.  Fundamentally,  both 
sides acknowledge that there is no alternative to lasting 
peace other than harmony and cooperation, given our 
shared  history.  That  is  why  President  Kiir  Mayardit, 
remarkably, visited Khartoum early this month and  held 
amicable  discussions  with  his  counterpart,  President 
Omer Hassan Al-Bashir of the Sudan. They agreed to 
enhance cooperation on all fronts, including allowing 
the unhindered flow of oil from South Sudan through 
the Sudan.
We call on the parties at war in the Sudan to find 
a durable political solution to the conflict, a situation 
to which the CPA has provided a workable remedy. We 
urge  the  international  community  to  play  a  positive, 
stepped-up  role  in  narrowing  the  gap  between  both 
parties. The civil war currently taking place in the Nuba 
mountains and Blue Nile regions of the Sudan, as well 
as in Darfur, has created an influx of refugees to South 
Sudan, and that is a source of concern for us. We appeal 
for humanitarian access and supplies for those refugees. 
Given our unique knowledge, acquaintance and position 
as partners to Khartoum and former comrades-in-arms 
in the fighting forces in those two regions, in addition 
to  our  interest  in  realizing  peace  along  our  northern 
13-48662
17/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
border,  the  Government  of  South  Sudan  can  play  a 
constructive mediation role if required.
On Abyei, we will continue to cooperate with the 
Republic of the Sudan to implement the agreement on 
the  final  status  of  Abyei  through  a  referendum,  set 
for  October  2013  by  the  African  Union  High-Level 
Implementation  Panel.  The  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council accepted the proposal as “representing a fair, 
equitable  and  workable  solution”.  The  international 
community must therefore ensure that this proposal is 
implemented expeditiously.
Our new Government in Juba, energetic and with 
new  faces,  is  leaner,  so  as  to  reduce  expenditure,  but 
broader in terms of inclusiveness of other political parties 
and civil society, even those without party affiliation. 
The reshuffle has been highly supported and applauded 
countrywide, with a recent opinion poll carried out by 
two organizations — CRN and ST — showing 84.7 per 
cent for the new team and 92 per cent for the choice of 
the new Vice-President. 
While  many,  including  our  friends,  had  doubted 
our ability to peacefully manage as simple a political 
exercise  as  a  cabinet  reshuffle,  the  domestic  backing 
is revealing. Our immediate agenda for the new phase, 
which  we  are  calling  phase  two,  is  to  improve  health 
care,  education,  roads,  electricity  supply  and  the 
quality of life. We are determined to uproot impunity 
and corruption, phenomena which plague post-conflict 
States, wherever they may be, and which can derail all 
of our efforts and determination to succeed. Based on 
its resolve to combat corruption and set a new standard, 
our  Government  has  erased  16,000  “ghost  names” 
it  found  on  the  police  payroll.  We  are  carrying  out  a 
similar  exercise  in  the  military  and  other  organized 
forces.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  repeat  that  we  remain 
steadfast in our vision of a country at peace with itself 
and with its neighbours — a country which is growing 
in  security,  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights  and 
progressing towards justice and prosperity. I offer my 
sincere thanks to our many partners and friends for their 
continued support. We look towards the future confident 
of  what  we,  a  people  emerging  from  marginalization 
and suffering civil strife, can accomplish together.
The  Organization  has  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
nurture  and  reinforce  its  new  Member,  South  Sudan, 
both  economically  and  in  its  determination  to  put  an 
end to human rights violations. It is important for the 
United  Nations  to  monitor  and  promote  the  complete 
implementation of the cooperation agreements reached 
between South Sudan and Sudan to cement harmonious 
and peaceful coexistence.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of South Sudan for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nicolas Tiangaye, Prime 
Minister, Head of Government, Minister of 
Finance and the Budget of the Central  
African Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Head  of 
Government, Minister of Finance and the Budget of the 
Central African Republic.
Mr.  Nicolas  Tiangaye,  Prime  Minister,  Head  of 
Government,  Minister  of  Finance  and  the  Budget 
of  the  Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nicolas Tiangaye, Prime 
Minister,  Head  of  Government,  Minister  of  Finance 
and  the  Budget  of  the  Central  African  Republic,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Tiangaye  (Central  African  Republic)  (spoke 
in  French):  The  theme  chosen  for  the  sixty-eighth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”. The attainment 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the 
Central African Republic has been compromised as a 
result  of  the  crisis  that  we  are  going  through.  I  shall 
therefore devote my statement entirely to the situation 
that prevails in my country.
As national leaders gather here in New York to share 
their concerns in a world where violence, hate, extreme 
poverty and armed conflict are ever more present and 
a miserable generation lives in indescribable suffering, 
I  have  the  onerous  duty  of  taking  the  floor  as  Prime 
Minister  and  Head  of  the  Transitional  Government 
of  National  Unity  of  the  Central  African  Republic  to 
address, from this lofty rostrum at the United Nations, 
18/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
the human tragedy afflicting the people of my country, 
whose  suffering  seems  to  have  been  forgotten  by  the 
international community.
At  the  outset,  I  and  my  delegation  would  like  to 
convey to Mr. John W. Ashe our heartfelt congratulations 
on  his  election  to  serve  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  also  wish  to 
acknowledge  the  remarkable  work  carried  out  under 
the  leadership  of  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  his  predecessor. 
In  addition,  I  wish  to  express  my  utmost  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  energy  and 
pragmatism and, in particular, for the special attention 
that he continually pays to my country and its people.
I must also pay well-deserved tribute to the Heads 
of State of the Economic Community of West African 
States  and  of  the  Central  African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Community,  who  unfailingly  come  to  my 
country’s aid as it suffers from multiple crises, and to the 
United Nations, the European Union, the International 
Organization  of  la  Francophonie  and  France  for  their 
unflagging  support  to  the  Central  African  Republic 
in these very trying times. Our thanks go, too, to the 
United  States  Government,  which  has  been  fighting 
with us side by side against the Lord’s Resistance Army 
(LRA) of Joseph Kony.
The terrible news of the terrorist attack in Nairobi 
reached  us  as  we  gathered  here  in  New  York.  My 
country condemns that and other senseless attacks and 
expresses its condolences to the afflicted families and 
to the Kenyan people.
The  tragedy  affecting  the  Syrian  people  for  more 
than two years demands action from the international 
community. The use of chemical weapons against the 
civilian population must be strongly condemned. That 
is why my country supports the actions under way to 
dismantle the chemical arsenal in Syria, with emphasis 
on a diplomatic resolution of that crisis.
While  Africa  has 
the  dubious  honour  of 
distinguishing itself by the acts of violence of all sorts 
that  occur  there,  the  continent  still  gives  us  grounds 
for hope. Only a few days ago, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita 
was elected President of Mali, a country in the throes 
of a crisis that has undermined its national unity. We 
convey  to  him  our  warmest  congratulations  and  our 
inexhaustible  encouragement  in  his  efforts  to  restore 
peace and sow the seeds of democracy in his country.
In 
the  half-century  of 
the 
Central  African  Republic  has  experienced  a  series 
its 
independence, 
of  cyclical  political  and  military  crises,  which  have 
led  to  a  succession  of  political  regimes.  The  decades 
of  recurrent  crisis  have  created  constant  instability, 
which  has  led  to  the  disintegration  of  the  State.  The 
home-grown  causes  of  this  situation  derive  from  the 
fragility  of  the  State,  a  lack  of  political  dialogue,  a 
failure to abide by commitments in the management of 
public  affairs,  a  refusal  to  let  go  of  power,  tribalism, 
nepotism  and  the  politics  of  exclusion.  In  addition, 
there are now phenomena previously unheard of in the 
Central  African  Republic —  impassioned  inter-ethnic 
and  interreligious  tensions  that  remind  us  of  the 
tragedies suffered by other African countries.
The external causes are due to the collateral effects 
of the crises in Darfur and Libya, as well as the long 
conflict in the Sudan, which led to the independence of 
South Sudan; the conflict in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo; the actions of residual groups of former 
Chadian  rebels;  and  the  terrorist  activities  of  Joseph 
Kony’s  LRA  in  the  south-east  of  the  country.  The 
various  disturbances  have  led  to  the  circulation  of 
a  large  quantity  of  military  weapons  of  all  calibres 
throughout  our  country.  Those  weapons  have  gravely 
impaired the security and the humanitarian situation in 
the Central African Republic and led to serious human 
rights  violations;  massacres  of  civilian  populations; 
kidnappings; 
rapes; 
large-scale pillaging and arson, including the burning 
of private houses, public buildings and grain silos; the 
desecration of places of worship; and the degradation of 
natural resources and wildlife.
summary  executions;  mass 
is 
The  Central  African  Republic 
thus  faced 
with  multifaceted  challenges  that  require  immediate 
action  to  restore  the  security  of  people  and  property 
throughout  the  territory.  There  must  be  protection  of 
and humanitarian assistance to vulnerable sectors of the 
population, including internally displaced persons and 
refugees.  State  administration  must  be  re-established 
throughout our territory. We also need to restore social 
cohesion  and  national  harmony.  We  must  revive  our 
economy, manage public finances and organize general 
elections.  In  accordance  with  the  commitments  made 
to the Heads of State and Government of the Economic 
Community  of  Central  African  States  (ECCAS),  the 
Government plans to establish conditions for a return 
to security, peace and constitutional order by 2015.
The  goal  at  the  end  of  the  period  of  peaceful 
transition,  which  every  citizen  in  the  Central  African 
Republic longs for, is a country where peace and security 
13-48662
19/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
are guaranteed in all sectors of political, economic and 
social  life,  where  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration are successfully managed and where free, 
transparent  and  credible  elections  are  held,  thereby 
ensuring the designation of legitimate authorities in the 
contry.
In compliance with the commitments made in the 
11 January 2013 Libreville Agreement and the 18 April 
2013  N’Djamena  Declaration,  under  the  auspices  of 
the  Heads  of  State  of  ECCAS,  we  have  established 
transitional  institutions,  including  the  Government 
of  National  Unity,  in  which  due  regard  is  paid  to 
geographical  and  political  balance;  and  the  National 
Transitional  Council,  a  legislative  and  constituent 
transitional  body.  We  have  adopted  a  constitutional 
transitional  charter  and  an  organization  act  relating 
to  the  transitional  constitutional  court.  We  have  also 
appointed and sworn in the members of the court, and 
the  Head  of  State  of  the  transition  has  now  taken  his 
oath  of  office.  The  last  institution,  namely,  the  high 
communications  council,  will  soon  be  established. 
The  next  elections  will  be  organized  by  our  national 
authority for elections, which will be established in the 
days to come.
We  are  trying  to  re-establish  our  defence  forces 
with  help  from  the  international  community,  but  that 
will be possible only if some basic conditions are met. 
The  Head  of  State  and  the  Government  of  National 
Unity are tackling that extremely difficult task.
Following the violence, killings and looting in the 
Boyrabe  and  Boeing  neighbourhoods  in  the  city  of 
Bangui, measures have been taken to ban former Séléka 
elements from maintaining order. Now the mission rests 
solely with the gendarmerie and the police. A ceremony 
of  reconciliation  took  place  between  the  officers  of 
the  Central  African  Armed  Forces  and  those  of  the 
former Séléka rebellion. The Séléka coalition has been 
dissolved, and we are trying to create a dynamic fusion 
of the latter with the Central African Armed Forces.
With  regard  to  the  encampment  of  the  former 
Séléka coalition, 15 sites have been established in the 
provinces in order to bring together the former Séléka 
rebels for identification and disarmament and to select 
those who could possibly join the army. While efforts 
were under way to do that, new outbreaks of violence 
erupted  in  certain  prefectures  of  the  Central  African 
Republic,  at  Bossangoa  and  Bouca,  involving  armed 
clashes between former Séléka elements and organized 
self-defence groups, who claimed to be supporters of the 
former President and wanted to regain power. Muslim 
families  were  massacred,  which  led  to  extremely 
cruel  reprisals  by  the  former  Séléka  elements  against 
Christian populations and innocent civilians.
Accordingly, the Head of State, in agreement with 
the  Government  of  National  Unity,  took  10  measures 
to  strengthen  security:  the  appointment  of  a  Minister 
of  Security  from  civil  society  to  head  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Security;  the  arrest  and  arraignment  of 
persons  suspected  of  crimes,  violence  and  looting  in 
the  areas  of  Bangui  concerned  and  the  sentencing  of 
16  former  Séléka  members  to  eight  years  in  prison, 
by  which  the  Government  demonstrated  its  resolve 
to  combat  impunity;  the  entrusting  of  all  operations 
to  the  police  and  the  gendarmerie  alone;  the  placing 
of  the  gendarmerie  and  police  under  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Security  so  that  manpower  and  material 
resources could be shared to ensure effective security 
throughout the territory; the dismantling of the former 
Séléka  coalition  and  the  Convention  of  Patriots  for 
Justice  and  Peace;  the  removal  of  Séléka  elements 
from police stations, private houses and administrative 
buildings  to  restore  security  throughout  the  territory; 
the resumption of police service in areas long occupied 
by former Séléka elements as a corollary to the release 
of persons arrested by them; the launch of operations 
to  disarm  former  Séléka  elements  who  refused  to  be 
quartered in the barracks assigned to them; the transfer 
of approximately 1,200 former Séléka members to two 
sites in the provinces of Sibut and Bossembélé, pending 
the  disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration 
programme; and the initiation by the Head of State of a 
social dialogue through meetings with various sectors 
of  the  population,  notably  victims  of  former  Séléka 
elements.
The 5 August 2013 report of the Secretary-General 
(S/2013/470)  on  the  situation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic paints a very dark and chaotic picture of the 
humanitarian  and  security  situation  that  reveals  the 
reality of the daily lives of the Central African people. 
Moreover, since early August, armed confrontations in 
the north-west have led to a considerably deteriorated 
humanitarian  situation  in  that  region,  where  clashes 
have  occurred  between  former  Séléka  elements  and 
self-defence  groups  and  groups  that  support  the 
former President. It is important to note that at present 
the  humanitarian  situation  is  utterly  catastrophic. 
Approximately  4.6  million  Central  Africans  are 
affected by the crisis, that is, every single person in our 
country. There are approximately 1.6 million internally 
20/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
displaced  persons  who  are  in  dire  need  of  assistance, 
and  approximately  60,000  children  are  at  risk  of 
dying  of  malnutrition.Approximately  62,000  people 
sought  refuge  in  neighbouring  countries,  including 
and  principally  40,500  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo.  At  least  650,000  children  are  unable 
to  go  to  school.  More  than  484,000,  or  10.6  per  cent 
of  our  population,  are  facing  a  very  serious  situation 
of  food  insecurity.  Around  3,500  children  have  been 
recruited  by  armed  groups.  More  than  13,700  people 
on  antiretroviral  medications  are  at  risk  of  not  being 
able  to  follow  their  treatments  because  of  possible 
interruption of the supply chain. Less than 20 per cent 
of the country’s health-care facilities are working. That 
is the humanitarian situation caused by insecurity.
Given that backdrop, the international community 
has  now  undertaken  to  rush  to  the  assistance  of  the 
Central African Republic. Accordingly, 3,652 military 
and  civilian  personnel  will  make  up  the  African-led 
International  Support  Mission  in  the  Central  African 
Republic.  It  will  take  over  from  the  Mission  for  the 
Consolidation of Peace in the Central African Republic, 
which has been in the country for several years under 
different designations. 
On  behalf  of  my  country,  I  would  like  to  extend 
my appreciation and thanks to Cameroon, the Congo, 
Gabon,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Chad, which, for the time being, are the only countries 
contributing  troops  to  the  force.  It  is  our  hope  that 
other  African  countries  will  follow  their  example; 
I  understand  that  Burundi  is  getting  ready  to  send  a 
battalion with 450 troops.
I hope to see the international community step up 
its efforts and continue to be supportive of the Central 
African  Republic  as  it  seeks  lasting  peace.  In  that 
respect, I would note the urgent appeal issued by many 
States for the greater involvement of the United Nations 
in resolving the crisis in the Central African Republic. 
Keeping in mind that the Central African Republic is 
a  crumbling  State,  that  appeal  is  for  us  a  request  for 
assistance for a people who are at risk and for a gesture 
of strong solidarity. It is therefore a matter of urgency 
that the International Support Mission should become 
operational quickly under the auspices of the African 
Union,  taking  over  from  the  former  Multinational 
Force of the Central African Economic and Monetary 
Community.
Given the degree of the violence and the extent of 
devastation, the new multinational force needs a clear 
and robust mandate from the Security Council in order 
to  provide  security,  bring  peace  to  the  country  and 
protect civilians. It is also the duty of the international 
community, however, to provide the financial, material 
and  logistic  resources  needed  to  meet  the  many 
challenges  that  my  country  is  facing.  The  challenges 
are  self-evident  and  enormous.  Apart  from  providing 
security in the country, organizing elections, restoring 
the  administration,  providing  judicial,  economic  and 
social  reform  are  all  part  of  the  road  map  that  was 
drawn up in Libreville.
Those  imperatives  are  especially  topical  right 
now  as  the  rainy  season  is  approaching  and  our 
people  are  in  a  state  of  total  destitution.  The  already 
critical  humanitarian  situation 
is  worsening,  as 
demonstrated by the vast number of internally displaced 
persons  —  between  1.5  million  and  1.6  million.  The 
proliferation of arms in Bangui and the deterioration of 
the  humanitarian  situation  and  social  atmosphere  are 
likely to jeopardize the success of the transition. Given 
that avalanche of problems, the Government of National 
Unity has to set security, humanitarian, budgetary and 
policy priorities.
If  we  are  to  be  successful  in  stabilizing  the 
country  and  bringing  peace,  we  have  to  reinvent  a 
new  programme  of  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration  and  we  have  to  rethink  how  to  reform 
the security sector, for security is the keystone of the 
transition  and  the  need  for  innovative  approaches  is 
greater now than ever before. We will not be able to meet 
those challenges unless we get four kinds of assistance: 
financial, 
technical,  material  and  humanitarian. 
Our  partners  need  to  be  supportive  of  our  transition, 
provide urgent budgetary support and help us with their 
expertise.
The current session of the General Assembly offers 
me once again an opportunity to beg the international 
institutions to commit to providing strong support and 
high-quality expertise in a coordinated, complementary, 
coherent and transparent way. A failure to carry out the 
transition will make our country impossible to govern, 
which would inevitably lead to a gray area at the heart 
of the African continent. 
There are already several foreign armed groups in 
our  country.  The  Lord’s  Resistance  Army,  which  has 
been  present  in  the  south-east  of  the  country  since 
2008, has killed several hundreds people, raped dozens 
of women, abducted thousands of children and burned 
entire villages. The Vakaga region has been penetrated 
13-48662
21/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
traffickers  and  poachers 
by 
from  neighbouring 
countries, including the Sudan. If the Central African 
State  collapses,  new  criminal  and  terrorist  networks 
could  settle  in  the  country  and  destabilize  the  entire 
region.  While  stability  in  Central  Africa  is  a  major 
concern  of  the  international  community,  that  concern 
must go beyond the minimal reactions and half-hearted 
commitments that are too often features of international 
support for political transition.
I  recall  that  Ms.  Valerie  Amos,  Under-Secretary-
General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  Emergency 
Relief  Coordinator,  and  Ms.  Kristalina  Georgieva, 
European Commissioner for International Cooperation, 
Humanitarian  Aid  and  Crisis  Response,  came  to 
my  country  in  July  2013  and  visited  the  devastated 
population  of  the  city  of  Kaga  Bandoro.  When  they 
returned  to  Bangui,  they  told  me  about  the  heart-
rending  scenes  they  had  witnessed.  They  had  met  a 
woman who had lost all hope and who asked why the 
world had abandoned her country. This survivor cried 
out in distress, saying, “Do not abandon us.” And her 
voice is that of millions of others in the Central African 
Republic who are calling for help. 
The crisis in my country may be a national crisis, 
but  the  solution,  in  its  four  dimensions  —  military, 
security,  humanitarian  and  financial  —  has  to  be 
international. There is no short-term alternative to the 
full  involvement  of  the  international  community  to 
save the Central African Republic. On 19 September in 
Bamako, French President François Hollande said that 
“when  the  law  is  trampled  upon,  when  women 
and  children  are  being  massacred,  it  is  then  that 
the  international  community  must  rise  up  and 
demonstrate solidarity”. 
The time has come for the international community to 
rise up and save the Central African Republic. It did so 
for Mali; there is no reason why it should not do so for 
my country. 
The Central African people do not understand this 
kind  of  international  solidarity,  with  one  rule  for  one 
country  and  another  rule  for  another.  Now  more  than 
ever, action is needed to help a people in danger. Now 
more  than  ever,  every  means  that  has  already  been 
used elsewhere must be mobilized to avert irreparable 
harm. The cry of distress from that poor woman from 
Kaga  Bandoro  addressed  to  Ms.  Valerie  Amos  and 
Ms. Kristalina Georgieva is the same cry of 4.6 million 
Central Africans to the international community, and it 
resonates like a last request to our universal conscience. 
A human tragedy that calls for urgent action is playing 
out  before  our  eyes.  Every  day  that  passes  brings  its 
share of bloodshed, women raped, children kidnapped 
and millions displaced or exiled.
Now  more  than  ever,  therefore,  action  is  needed 
for  my  country’s  civilian  population.  If  nothing  is 
done now, tomorrow will be too late. And in the face 
of history, the international community can no longer 
abjure its political and moral responsibilities.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Head of 
Government, Minister of Finance and the Budget of the 
Central African Republic for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Nicolas  Tiangaye,  Prime  Minister,  Head  of 
Government,  Minister  of  Finance  and  the  Budget 
of the Central African Republic, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Iurie Leancă, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Moldova
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova.
Mr. Iurie Leancă, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Iurie  Leancă,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Moldova, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Leancă  (Republic  of  Moldova):  I  would 
first  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  John  Ashe  of  Antigua 
and  Barbuda  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session  and  to 
wish him every success in his post. I am confident that 
his  diligence  and  perspicacity  will  contribute  to  our 
efforts  to  address  the  challenges  of  today’s  world.  I 
would also like to express my appreciation for the work 
of Mr. Vuk Jeremić in presiding over the Assembly at 
its  sixty-seventh  session  and  my  best  wishes  for  his 
further success in his career. And I pay tribute to the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  tireless 
work promoting peace and security, human rights and 
prosperity  in  a  sustainable  global  environment,  as 
well as for his efforts to make this Organization more 
transparent and efficient.
22/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
Before the key points of my statement, I would like 
to offer my condolences to the victims of the senseless 
attack in Kenya.
The United Nations is in the midst of establishing 
a new post-2015 development agenda that will continue 
and  advance  the  ambitious  commitments  laid  down 
in  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  We 
welcome the inauguration earlier this week of the High-
level Political Forum on Sustainable Development as a 
key  step  towards  the  implementation  of  the  outcome 
document  of  the  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex). 
We  expect  that  the  high-level  dialogue  will  reinforce 
and  launch  the  implementation  of  the  three  pillars 
of  sustainable  development  —  economic  prosperity, 
social  equity  and  environmental  protection  —  with 
the  firm  commitment  of  Member  States  to  deliver 
on  those  priority  areas.  We  recall  the  huge  effort  it 
took  for  this  Organization  to  agree  last  year  in  Rio 
on  the  wide-ranging  framework  for  a  world  working 
cooperatively towards a sustainable future, and we are 
hopeful that this effort will yield results sooner rather 
than later.
(spoke in French)
For 
the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
sustainable 
development  is  the  only  way  to  ensure  a  decent  life 
for our people. It follows that we must foster economic 
development  and  solve  our  energy  security  problems 
while  ensuring  an  ecologically  healthy  environment. 
My  Government  has  been  working  hard  to  achieve 
those  ends,  together  with  its  relevant  international 
partners,  particularly 
the  European  Union  (EU), 
which  gives  us  a  reference  point  for  our  national 
policies.  We  are  convinced  that  political  will,  mutual 
assistance and transparency in every significant issue 
can bring just as much positive change to emerging and 
developing economies as to poor ones. We reaffirm that 
issues  such  as  poverty  eradication,  human  rights  and 
tolerance,  access  to  quality  education  without  gender 
discrimination, decent jobs for all and the preservation 
of nature and biodiversity should have special priority 
on the United Nations development agenda in the years 
to come.
Cooperation  between  sectors  is  also  a  key  issue, 
which  is  why  international  partners  and  the  donor 
community,  including  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society,  should  work  hand  in  hand  with  the  United 
Nations  and  Governments  in  order  to  mobilize  the 
necessary  resources  and  use  them  to  target  specific 
results-oriented  projects  as  well  as  investments  in 
essential areas.
than  once 
I  would  also  like  to  touch  on  the  problems  of 
migration  and  population  movement.  The  United 
Nations  has  acknowledged  more 
that 
migration can benefit the development of countries of 
origin  as  much  as  that  of  countries  of  destination,  if 
international  cooperation  is  strengthened  and  suitable 
policies  are  put  in  place.  That  is  certainly  the  case 
with  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  where  migration  has 
contributed  to  our  macroeconomic  stability  in  recent 
years. 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  living  through  a  period 
of  considerable  change  that  is  likely  to  influence  the 
demographic,  economic,  social  and  security  aspects 
of  our  population.  There  is  no  doubt  that  investing 
in  human  capital  is  fundamentally  a  way  out  of 
demographic volatility and an indispensable condition 
for  our  country’s  prosperity,  while  ensuring  respect 
for  human  rights.  That  is  how  we  aim  to  reduce  the 
interdependence  between  development  and  migration 
flows  and  to  create  an  environment  conducive  to 
community development, including small and medium-
size  businesses,  with  financial  aid  awarded  directly 
from the State budget.
However,  I  would  also  like  to  draw  the  attention 
of the Assembly to the positive examples derived from 
the  mobility  partnership  between  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  and  the  European  Union.  That  initiative  has 
strengthened  the  Government’s  capacity  to  formulate 
and implement migration policies, find shared priorities 
with  the  EU  and  develop  innovative  and  strategic 
legislative initiatives, based on best practices. We must 
definitely continue in that spirit, which is the only way 
to  arrive  at  mutually  acceptable  solutions  for  regular 
and circulating migration that can benefit our citizens, 
while  ensuring  that  human  rights  are  protected  and 
social security guaranteed.
I  would  like  to  mention  here  one  of  the  most 
significant achievements of the Assembly, the adoption 
of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  (ATT),  which  was  made 
possible  after  several  years  of  intense  debate  and 
negotiation on the regulation of the world’s arms trade.
The Republic of Moldova has signed the ATT, and 
we  hope  that  the  rapid  entry  into  force  of  the  Treaty 
will make the global arms trade more transparent and 
legitimate.  The  ATT  could  be  a  great  step  forward 
in  controlling  the  proliferation  and  illicit  circulation 
13-48662
23/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
of  weapons,  especially  in  vulnerable  areas  and  in 
areas  that  do  not  respect  the  constitutional  system  of 
sovereign States.
In addition, the Government is working closely with 
its  European  and  international  partners,  in  particular 
with  Germany’s  Federal  Office  of  Economics  and 
Export Control and the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, to review and amend national 
legislation  on  the  export  control  of  dual-use  goods  in 
order to adopt the best international standards and rely 
on the best international experience in that field.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  my 
country has completed the first cycle of the universal 
periodic  review,  which  is,  in  our  opinion,  one  of  the 
best  exercises  for  monitoring  and  evaluating  the 
results  of  national  human  rights  institutions  and 
mechanisms. At the same time, we agreed to undertake 
new  commitments  to  meet  the  challenges  involved  in 
implementing  the  recommendations  of  the  universal 
periodic review.
The Republic of Moldova continues to advocate for 
a review of the human rights situation by all countries 
and  States  and  believes  that  a  robust,  apolitical  and 
impartial  Human  Rights  Council  should  exercise 
greater authority, especially in cases of serious human 
rights  violations,  and  should  provide  guidance  on  the 
implementation of the best practices and standards in 
this area.
My Government is pleased to announce the fourth 
seminar  of  Francophone  countries,  to  be  held  at  the 
beginning of 2014, in Chisinau, our capital, to discuss 
the results of and lessons learned from the first cycle of 
the universal periodic review. We hope that the findings 
of  that  seminar  will  contribute  to  the  advancement, 
strengthening  and 
the  universal 
periodic review as a unique mechanism for the review 
of human rights practices in all States members of the 
International Organization of la Francophonie.
(spoke in English)
improvement  of 
The Republic of Moldova is pursuing an intensive 
and comprehensive reform programme in the political, 
economic,  institutional,  legislative,  demographic  and 
judicial  areas  and  others.  We  are  firmly  committed 
to  building  a  State  based  on  the  rule  of  law,  good 
governance, transparency and accountability. Through 
those  difficult  efforts,  we  are  becoming  a  stronger 
nation and a better international partner, and we must 
keep pushing ahead.
In that connection, we are proud to announce that 
the  Government  has  embarked  on  a  new  course  of 
technological  modernization  to  enable  direct  public 
access to Government services. Our aim is to make all 
such  Government  services  electronically  available  to 
all citizens by 2020 at any time, from anywhere, using 
modern communication technologies and devices such 
as  computers,  mobile  phones  and  interactive  payment 
offices. Such a system will combat corruption, reduce 
unnecessary bureaucracy and ensure true transparency 
in the relationship between citizens and public officials. 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  among  the  leaders  in 
that  field,  and  our  efforts  have  already  yielded  real 
benefits for our citizens with the implementation of our 
electronic catalogue for public services, mobile digital 
signatures, the Government’s electronic payment portal 
and many more services.
The ambitious reform agenda of the Government and 
its foreign policy are both directed towards the fulfilment 
of  our  country’s  strategic  objective  —  European 
integration.  At  this  stage,  we  have  concluded  the 
negotiations on the Association Agreement with the EU 
and its component part, the Deep and Comprehensive 
Free Trade Area Agreement, and the initialling of the 
texts  is  going  to  take  place  at  the  upcoming  Eastern 
Partnership summit to be held in Vilnius in November. 
All of those actions — the political association with the 
EU,  the  economic  rapprochement  and  the  perspective 
of  visa-free  travel  for  our  citizens —  are  bringing  us 
closer  to  our  final  goal,  namely  EU  integration,  and 
they open new perspectives for political and economic 
cooperation in the region.
Every  year,  my  delegation  brings  to  the  attention 
of  the  Assembly  the  issue  of  the  protracted  conflict 
in  the  Transnistrian  region,  which  has  affected  my 
country  ever  since  independence.  As  a  nation  that 
values national consolidation and unity, that conflict is 
a constant challenge that undermines our development 
efforts. The political settlement of the conflict and the 
reintegration of the country are our strategic priority. 
We envisage uniting the population from both banks of 
the Dniester River around shared goals and providing 
them with a better future. It also means removing one 
of  the  most  fundamental  challenges  to  our  national 
security,  economic  development  and  social  cohesion. 
Ultimately, resolving the Transnistrian conflict means 
guaranteeing  secured  national  borders  and  opening  a 
new perspective towards stability and fruitful, bilateral 
and  equitable  relations  with  our  neighbours  and 
international partners.
24/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
Peace and dialogue are fundamental prerequisites 
for a political solution to any conflict. Let me emphasize 
that  there  have  now  been  more  than  two  decades  of 
peace  in  the  region,  and  we  will  spare  no  effort  to 
preserve  that  peace.  Moldova  is  fully  committed  to 
dialogue through all available channels. But in order to 
achieve the desired outcome, we desperately need trust 
within the resolution process and genuine engagement 
and commitment from the outside. We advocate for the 
continuation of the confidence-building activities that 
have been taking place since 2007 with the support of 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
European  Union,  aimed  at  bridging  the  gaps  between 
all  stakeholders  from  both  banks  and  involving  local 
authorities, business communities and civil society.
The  vision  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  for  a  final  solution  to  the  conflict  is 
unambiguous  and  inclusive.  First,  a  comprehensive 
and  viable  solution  must  be  based  on  respect  for  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. We 
are open to a reasonable compromise on a special status 
for the region within the Republic of Moldova, which 
would provide the population from the left bank with 
a comfortable and guaranteed level of self-governance 
in various areas of public life. There should be a single 
constitutional,  economic  and  defence  space  within 
the  internationally  recognized  borders  of  Moldova. 
At  the  same  time,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  should 
remain a functional State that continues to advance on 
its European path and makes every effort to allow the 
population  and  the  business  communities  from  both 
banks to benefit equally from our extensive partnership 
with  the  European  Union  and,  hopefully,  within  the 
European Union.
On the conflict resolution matter, we will continue 
with renewed impetus to seek solutions in order to ensure 
the  freedom  of  movement,  improved  transportation 
links and new and real opportunities for businesses on 
both banks of the Dniester. We will also redouble our 
efforts to convince our partners to start talks on political 
and security issues, including the future status of the 
region  within  the  recognized  borders  of  the  Republic 
of Moldova. Moreover, we will seek to intensify law-
enforcement  interaction  and  preserve  stability  in  the 
security zone, and we reaffirm our stance on the need 
to transform the current peacekeeping mechanism into 
an international civilian mission.
Strengthening respect for human rights is of utmost 
importance to us. The report of the United Nations senior 
expert on human rights in the Transnistrian region of 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Mr.  Thomas  Hammarberg, 
offers a good road map for joint activities in that regard. 
In addition, I would like to reiterate our long-standing 
and unwavering call to finalize the withdrawal of the 
Russian  military  forces  and  ammunition  from  the 
territory of the Republic of Moldova in accordance with 
the relevant international commitments.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  express  my 
Government’s conviction that the future of the region 
will  be  brighter  if  we  unite  our  efforts  in  building  a 
stronger  and  unified  country,  open  to  Europe  where 
it  naturally  belongs,  and  to  diversity,  tolerance  and 
economic and market opportunities. We are optimistic 
that  we  can  achieve  that  because  there  is  no  better 
vision that we could embrace for the well-being of our 
people and the consolidation of our nation. 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  places  peace  and  real, 
constructive  dialogue  above  any  political  goal  or 
ambition. We follow with great concern the continuing 
violence  in  the  Middle  East  and  abhor  the  loss  of  so 
many lives and futures, which will perhaps irremediably 
maim  the  consciousness  of  a  whole  generation,  not 
only in the conflict zones but worldwide. The refugee 
crisis  in  Syria  magnifies  the  perils  of  war,  Hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  have  been  displaced  as  they 
try  to  salvage  their  lives  and  find  peace.  My  own 
country  has  offered  protection  to  a  number  of  Syrian 
refugees, and we recognize the significant burden that 
Syria’s neighbours and other receiving countries, many 
in  Europe,  face  as  they  seek  to  alleviate  the  Syrian 
refugees’  suffering,  offer  them  a  better  chance  for 
survival and affirm their basic human rights. It is time 
for all sides to take a step back, find a peaceful solution 
and  build  a  future  for  their  people  rather  than  pursue 
fleeting,  treacherous  and,  so  often,  deadly  political 
goals.
In conclusion, I would like to express the hope that 
during the current session the members of the Assembly 
will succeed in reaching important decisions on topical 
issues,  such  as  sustainable  development,  peace  and 
security, human rights and many others. My delegation 
is  willing  and  open  to  making  its  contribution  in  a 
collaborative and constructive way. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Moldova for the statement he has just made.
13-48662
25/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
Mr. Iurie Leancă, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Thomas Motsoahae Thabane, 
Prime Minister and Head of Government, 
Minister of Defence, Police and National 
Security of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Head  of 
Government, Minister of Defence, Police and National 
Security of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
and  Head  of  Government,  Minister  of  Defence, 
Police  and  National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae 
Thabane,  Prime  Minister  and  Head  of  Government, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Police  and  National  Security  of 
the Kingdom of Lesotho, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
From 
Mr. Thabane (Lesotho): At the very outset, allow 
me  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ashe  on  his  well-deserved 
election  to  the  office  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. I assure him of my delegation’s full support 
and  cooperation  during  his  tenure  of  office.  I  also 
wish  to  commend  his  predecessor  for  the  exemplary 
leadership he demonstrated during the previous session. 
the  humble  beginnings  of  a  fledging 
organization  more  than  six  decades  ago  to  a  massive 
expansion  in  membership  today,  the  United  Nations 
has undoubtedly stood the test of time. Its worth as an 
indispensable entity in shaping the world of our time is 
a matter of common cause. Some of the great strides the 
United Nations has made span the peaceful settlement 
of disputes, restoring calm in many countries through 
peacekeeping,  raising  awareness  of  human  rights  and 
eradicating diseases. Nevertheless, much still needs to 
be done.
Much  of  the  world  remains  mired  in  poverty  and 
disease, while peace, security and stability continue to 
be fragile. Economic development continues to be the 
greatest challenge in our history. As we ushered in a new 
millennium 13 years ago, we adopted the Millennium 
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) in order to focus the world’s attention on ending 
extreme poverty in all its forms. The 2015 deadline for 
the achievement of the MDGs is fast approaching, yet it 
is clear that not much progress has been made in many 
countries  in  achieving  the  Goals.  Alive  to  that  fact, 
the United Nations is engaged in various processes in 
preparation for the post-2015 development era. It is in 
this context that we welcome the theme for this session, 
“The post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage”. 
One  of  the  key  outcomes  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) was 
that we launched a process to develop a set of sustainable 
development goals (SDGs), which would build upon the 
MDGs  and  converge  with  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. We note the progress that has been made in that 
regard and hope that the letter and spirit of the Rio+20 
outcome  document,  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution 
66/288, annex), will be upheld. It is our hope that we 
will develop SDGs that are simple to implement, while 
also paying attention to the reality that no one size fits 
all.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  must  be  an 
integral framework that will build upon the successes 
and  failures  of  the  MDGs.  We  need  to  reflect  on  the 
experiences  and  lessons  learned  in  implementing  the 
MDGs, the results achieved and opportunities missed. 
It is time for this body to come together and exercise its 
collective responsibility to finalize this one shared goal 
of articulating and shaping a development agenda that 
is  inclusive  and  people-centred.  A  new  development 
agenda,  premised  upon  the  sovereign  equality  of  all 
States  while  recognizing  their  interdependence  and 
mutually  reinforcing  roles,  should  be  our  goal.  To 
achieve that, a renewed spirit of solidarity, cooperation 
and mutual accountability must underpin our efforts.
It is equally important, in our view, to pay special 
attention to the perils of climate change for our physical 
world, as well as its destruction of ecosystems, all of 
which result in land degradation and contribute to the 
decline of agricultural productivity. Agriculture is the 
mainstay of our small economies. In order to address 
that  challenge,  agriculture  and  food  security  have  to 
be  given  the  necessary  prominence  in  the  envisaged 
development agenda.
Similarly, 
sustainable  mountain  development 
should be our ideal. To a country such as Lesotho, with 
over 60 per cent of its land area covered by mountains, 
sustainable mountain development is imperative for the 
people to survive. Mountains are valuable water sources 
with  rich  biodiversity.  As  such,  international  support 
for  conservation  programmes  and  the  protection  of 
26/28 
13-48662
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.13
mountain ecosystems should be at the forefront of our 
plans.
the  principal 
The  state  of  peace  and  security  in  the  world  is 
gradually  getting  worse.  The  possession  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
remains 
the  survival  of 
humankind.  The  widespread  sectarian  strife  in  the 
Middle  East  and  elsewhere  and  xenophobia  are  some 
of the great challenges to global peace. Sadly, discord 
remains  among  Member  States  on  how  to  overcome 
those problems.
threat 
to 
Of  particular  concern  to  my  delegation  is  the 
situation in Syria, which poses a serious and growing 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Scores  of 
civilians continue to be the principal victims. Women, 
children  and  the  elderly  are  bearing  the  brunt  of  the 
conflict. The use of chemical weapons in Syria is not 
only abhorrent, but also a crime against humanity. We 
condemn  it  in  the  strongest  terms,  as  it  threatens  to 
undermine the norm against the use of chemical weapons 
universally embraced by the international community. 
We  welcome  the  partial  report  of  the  United  Nations 
chemical  weapons  inspectors  investigating  the  use  of 
those weapons in Syria, and hope that the culprits will 
face the might of international law and justice.
The crisis in Syria has the potential to engulf the 
whole  Middle  East  region,  with  global  ramifications. 
We call on the international community to find a quick 
and lasting solution to the conflict. Whether in Syria or 
anywhere else, perpetrators of crimes against humanity 
must be held legally accountable for their actions.
History  has  revealed  that  human  societies  can 
enjoy  peaceful,  orderly  progress  only  if  the  rule  of 
law  obtains.  The  conviction  that  peace  and  justice 
are  inextricably  intertwined  has  always  underpinned 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
Indeed, the International Criminal Court (ICC), created 
in 1998, is a beacon that speaks to that truism. We must 
use institutions, such as the ICC and other international 
legal  tribunals,  as  a  reflection  of  the  international 
community’s  increasing  rejection  of  impunity  and 
evidence  that  there  is  a  rising  tide  in  favour  of  the 
rule of law. At the same time, we need to ensure that 
institutions, such as the ICC, are adequately insulated 
against  politicization.  Selective  prosecutions  must  be 
avoided.
A  decade  has  passed  since  the  initiation  of 
the  notion  of  the  responsibility  to  protect.  Yet,  the 
operationalization  of  that  concept  has  not  become  a 
reality. The fact that crimes of mass atrocity continue 
to be committed around the world is a stark reminder 
that  the  time  for  a  collective  approach  to  protecting 
populations 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity  is  now.  Most 
mass  atrocities  often  do  not  occur  spontaneously,  but 
rather as part of a planned process. Over the years, we 
have learned the important lesson that the Organization 
cannot stand on the sidelines when challenged to take 
preventive action. In so doing, we should guard against 
the misuse and abuse of the norm of the responsibility 
to protect by infringing on the national sovereignty or 
altering the legal obligation of Member States to refrain 
from  the  use  of  force  except  in  conformity  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
From  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  across  the  Sahel 
region  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the 
African  continent  is  facing  a  rise  in  lawlessness  and 
conflicts. As we celebrate the jubilee of the formation 
of  our  continental  organization,  the  Organization  of 
African  Unity,  we  are  resolved,  as  leaders  of  Africa, 
that Africa must open a new chapter going forward and 
extricate itself from the conflicts that have so soiled its 
reputation  and  compromised  its  development.  We  are 
determined to build a safe, secure and peaceful Africa 
from here forward.
With 
the  presence  of  extremist  groups  and 
terrorist  entities  in  the  Middle  East  and  elsewhere, 
terrorism  continues  to  pose  a  serious  threat  to  world 
peace,  security  and  development.  The  ugly  face  of 
that  scourge  has  once  again  resurfaced  in  Kenya.  We 
condemn the barbaric killings of innocent people in the 
Westgate  mall  in  Nairobi,  committed  by  Al-Shabaab. 
Our  thoughts  and  prayers  are  with  the  families  that 
have lost their loved ones. We all know that solutions 
to  these  problems  cannot  be  through  military  means 
alone. We have to invest more in creating a holistic and 
integrated approach that targets, among other things, the 
improvement of economic development, the promotion 
of the rule of law, the protection of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms, and good governance.
In  the  face  of  the  numerous  global  challenges 
existing in the world today, promoting more effective 
global  governance  should  be  at  the  forefront  of  the 
international agenda. We, the membership of the United 
Nations, should strive for an international Organization 
13-48662
27/28
A/68/PV.13 
26/09/2013
with  improved  efficiency  and  effectiveness.  In  our 
efforts to reform the United Nations, emphasis needs to 
be placed on enhancing, inter alia, its accountability and 
that of all its organs and bodies and the programmes of 
Member States, irrespective of their size and influence.
It would be remiss of me not to express solidarity 
with the people of Cuba for having endured sanctions for 
so many years. We also want to express our unwavering 
solidarity with the people of Western Sahara, who have 
languished  under  the  yoke  of  colonialism  for  far  too 
long.  In  the  same  vein,  we  express  our  unwavering 
support for the people of Palestine. As a small country 
that  was  surrounded  by  apartheid  South  Africa  for 
almost  a  century,  we  understand  the  pain  that  others 
who  still  languish  under  that  kind  of  situation  feel. 
Those  situations  are  a  challenge  that  this  body  can 
easily remove from our agenda simply by doing what is 
right. In true brotherly solidarity, we appeal to this body 
to remove those final vestiges of colonial oppression.
In  conclusion,  I  need  not  emphasize  that  our 
peoples do not necessarily look at this Organization as a 
mirror reflecting a divided and troubled world. Rather, 
they yearn for progress and solutions to the problems 
besieging their world. They want ideas, leadership and 
concrete hope for the future. Our actions and decisions 
should embody themes of peace and development that 
look  far  beyond  the  immediacy  of  the  moment.  The 
challenges  that  confront  us  today  must  be,  more  than 
ever  before,  addressed  with  the  candour  and  decision 
that the present global economic and political situation 
dictates to us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Head of Government, Minister of Defence, Police and 
National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
and  Head  of  Government,  Minister  of  Defence, 
Police  and  National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
28/28 
13-48662
