United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
43rd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 5 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.43
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Agency, to introduce the report of the Agency for the 
year 2012.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Draft decision (A/68/L.9)
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
take action on draft decision A/68/L.9, entitled “General 
debate of the sixty-ninth regular session of the General 
Assembly”. May I take it that the Assembly decides to 
adopt it?
Draft  decision  A/68/L.9  was  adopted  (decision 
68/512).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 7.
Agenda item 88
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/68/324)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.10)
The Acting President: I invite Mr. Yukia Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Mr. Amano (International Atomic Energy Agency): 
Access to modern science and technology is essential 
for achieving all of the Millennium Development Goals.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
gives  high  priority  to  assisting  developing  countries 
in  using  nuclear 
including 
health,  food  and  agriculture,  and  water  management. 
By  making  nuclear  technology  available  through  our 
technical  cooperation  programme,  the  IAEA  makes 
a  unique  and  lasting  contribution  to  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
technology 
in  areas, 
Globally,  health  and  nutrition  make  up 
the 
largest  proportion  of  IAEA  spending  on  technical 
cooperation. We have been working with other United 
Nations  specialized  agencies,  such  as  the  World 
Health Organization and the United Nations Food and 
Agriculture  Organization,  in  order  to  achieve  more 
effective programme implementation. The Agency pays 
particular  attention  to  training  skilled  professionals 
in the use of nuclear technology. We are also making 
increasing use of cost-effective e-learning tools.
Cancer 
is  reaching  epidemic  proportions 
in 
developing  countries,  but  many  countries  lack  the 
resources to deal with it. In fact, several dozen African 
nations  have  absolutely  no  radiotherapy  facilities. 
Cancers  that  are  increasingly  treatable  in  developed 
countries  are  all 
in  developing 
countries. The IAEA, together with the World Health 
Organization,  is  playing  its  part  by  helping  to  make 
too  often  fatal 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-54795 (E)
*1354795*
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
radiotherapy,  medical  physics,  nuclear  medicine  and 
imaging  services  available  to  developing  countries. 
Our  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy  has 
been recognized by Member States as a flagship IAEA 
programme.
But  our  efforts  are  just  a  drop  in  a  vast  ocean  of 
human  suffering.  The  world  needs  to  mobilize  its 
resources against cancer in a systematic way. The crisis 
must  be  addressed  with  a  multipronged  international 
effort  to  build  awareness,  develop  diagnosis  and 
treatment centres and train medical professionals.
Tsetse flies infest vast areas of Africa. They transmit 
a parasitic disease that devastates livestock herds and 
spreads  sleeping  sickness  among  human  beings.  The 
IAEA  is  working  closely  with  the  African  Union  to 
help  create  tsetse-free  zones,  using  the  sterile-insect 
technique  and  other  methods.  The  sterile-insect 
technique  is  essentially  a  form  of  contraception  for 
tsetse  flies.  Male  flies,  which  are  mass-produced  in 
special  facilities,  are  sterilized  using  radiation.  The 
sterile  males  are  then  released  into  affected  areas, 
where  they  mate  with  wild  females.  The  females  do 
not  produce  offspring.  The  technique  can  eventually 
eradicate entire populations of tsetse flies, as happened 
in Zanzibar in 1999. In recent years, significant progress 
has  been  made  in  suppressing  tsetse  flies  in  Ethiopia 
and  Senegal  by  using  the  sterile-insect  technique  and 
conventional methods.
Together  with  13  countries  in  the  Sahel  region 
of  Africa,  the  IAEA  is  working  to  alleviate  severe 
water  shortages  that  have  caused  a  humanitarian 
crisis.  Underground  aquifers  that  store  fresh  water 
span  national  borders  in  the  region.  The  IAEA  helps 
countries  to  measure  and  monitor  such  shared  fresh 
water supplies using nuclear isotopic techniques. That 
provides the data to enable policymakers to develop a 
strategic plan for managing those vital resources.
Responding  to  concerns  among  member  States 
about  climate  change,  the  new  Ocean  Acidification 
International Coordination Centre started work this year 
at  the  IAEA  Environmental  Laboratories  in  Monaco. 
That enhances our efforts to promote a comprehensive 
approach  to  the  study,  monitoring  and  protection  of 
marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems. The annual 
IAEA Scientific Forum in September was entitled “The 
Blue  Planet:  Nuclear  Applications  for  a  Sustainable 
Marine Environment”.
I  informed  the  General  Assembly  a  year  ago 
about  my  plans  to  modernize  the  eight  IAEA  nuclear 
applications  laboratories  near  Vienna  (see  A/67/152/
Add.1).  They  do  essential  work  in  assisting  with  the 
transfer of nuclear science and technology to developing 
countries  in  areas  such  as  human  and  animal  health, 
food security and safety, agriculture and environmental 
monitoring.  My  proposal  has  received  strong  support 
from  member  States,  and  we  hope  to  complete  the 
modernization in 2017. That will be a priority for the 
Agency over the next four years.
Nuclear  safety  and  security  also  remain  a  matter 
of  high  priority  for  the  IAEA.  The  Agency  has 
continued to assist Japan in dealing with the aftermath 
of  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident.  The  recent  leak 
of  contaminated  water  was  a  clear  reminder  of  the 
continuing  impact  of  the  accident.  The  IAEA  has 
recommended  that  Japan  establish  an  effective  plan 
and  mechanisms  for  the  long-term  management  of 
contaminated water. The announcement by the Japanese 
Government of a basic policy for addressing that issue 
was  an  important  step  forward.  An  IAEA  team  will 
carry out a follow-up mission to Japan later this year.
Steady  progress  has  been  made  on 
the 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  which  was  agreed  by  our  General  Conference 
in 2011. The Agency has continued the series of post-
Fukushima international expert meetings, with sessions 
on issues including decommissioning and remediation 
after a nuclear accident, and human and organizational 
factors in nuclear safety. Member States have recognized 
the central role of the IAEA in promoting international 
cooperation in nuclear safety. A comprehensive IAEA 
report  on  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident  will  be 
finalized in 2014.
In  June,  a  ministerial  conference  on  nuclear 
power  in  the  twenty-first  century  took  place  in  Saint 
Petersburg, Russia. One of the key messages was that 
for many countries nuclear power will play an important 
role  in  achieving  energy  security  and  sustainable 
development  goals.  The  IAEA  has  a  unique  role  in 
assisting  Governments,  operators  and  regulators  to 
understand their international obligations and national 
responsibilities concerning nuclear power, as well as in 
adopting international standards and best practices.
The IAEA’s activities in nuclear security continue 
to develop, in response to the wishes of member States. 
The IAEA provides a broad range of services to help 
2/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
ensure  that  nuclear  and  other  radioactive  material,  as 
well  as  nuclear  facilities,  are  properly  protected.  In 
July, we hosted an international conference on nuclear 
security  to  review  past  achievements  and  current 
approaches  and  to  identify  priorities  for  the  future. 
That  was  the  first  such  conference  at  the  ministerial 
level, open to all IAEA member States, and one of the 
largest conferences ever held by the Agency. Ministers 
adopted  a  declaration  with  a  firm  commitment  to 
strengthening nuclear security. They also affirmed the 
IAEA’s central role in strengthening the global nuclear 
security  framework.  Over  the  coming  years,  we  will 
build  on  the  success  of  that  conference  with  the  aim 
of  ensuring  that  all  member  States  share  a  common 
understanding of the threat of nuclear terrorism and the 
measures needed to address it.
I  continue  to  encourage  countries  to  address 
an  important  area  of  unfinished  business  in  nuclear 
security, namely, the ratification of the Amendment to 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material.  The  Amendment  would  expand  coverage  of 
the  Convention  to  include  the  protection  of  nuclear 
material in domestic use, storage and transport, and the 
protection of nuclear facilities against sabotage. Eight 
years  after  its  adoption,  the  Amendment  has  still  not 
entered into force. I call upon all States to adhere to the 
Amendment, and I hope that it will enter into force in 
the near future.
Turning  now 
to  nuclear  verification,  I  can 
inform  the  General  Assembly  that  IAEA  safeguards 
agreements are now in force with 181 States. However, 
12  non-nuclear-weapon  States  have  yet  to  meet  their 
obligation under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to conclude a comprehensive 
safeguards agreement with the Agency. For those States, 
we  cannot  draw  any  safeguards  conclusions.  I  urge 
all  such  States  to  conclude  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements as soon as possible.
I am pleased to report that the number of States with 
additional protocols to their safeguards agreements in 
force  continues  to  rise.  It  now  stands  at  121.  That  is 
very  encouraging  because  the  additional  protocol  is 
an essential tool for the Agency to be able to provide 
credible assurance that there are no undeclared nuclear 
materials or activities in a country.
The  IAEA  has  been  working  for  several  years  to 
improve the operational effectiveness of our safeguards 
laboratories.  The  new  Nuclear  Material  Laboratory 
building was completed a few months ago, on schedule 
and within budget. The lab should be operational within 
18 months, giving the Agency a modern capability for 
the analysis of nuclear samples.
I  continue  to  report  to  the  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors  on  safeguards  implementation  in  three 
countries  in  particular:  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic.  The  Agency  continues  to 
verify  the  non-diversion  of  nuclear  material  declared 
by  Iran  under  its  Safeguards  Agreement.  However, 
we are unable to provide credible assurance about the 
absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities. 
The Agency cannot, therefore, conclude that all nuclear 
material in Iran is in peaceful activities.
Last  week,  a  productive  meeting  addressing  past 
and present issues related to Iran’s nuclear programme 
took  place  in  Vienna.  Iran  presented  a  new  proposal 
on  practical  measures  as  a  constructive  contribution 
to  strengthening  cooperation  and  dialogue  with  a 
view to the future resolution of all outstanding issues. 
Following  the  substantive  discussions,  it  was  decided 
that a meeting would be held on 11 November in Tehran 
in order to take that cooperation forward.
I  remain  seriously  concerned  about  the  nuclear 
programme  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s 
statements  concerning  a  third  nuclear  test  and  its 
intention  to  restart  its  nuclear  facilities  at  Yongbyon, 
together  with  its  previous  statements  about  uranium 
enrichment activities and the construction of a light water 
reactor,  are  deeply  regrettable.  Such  actions  are  clear 
violations of relevant Security Council resolutions. The 
Agency has not been able to implement any verification 
measures in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
since April 2009. I call upon the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea to fully comply with its obligations 
under  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  with 
the NPT, and to cooperate promptly and fully with the 
Agency.
In the case of Syria, the Assembly will recall that, 
in  May  2011,  I  reported  that  it  was  very  likely  that  a 
building destroyed at the Dair Alzour site was a nuclear 
reactor that should have been declared to the Agency. 
The  Agency  has  not  received  any  new  information 
that  would  affect  that  assessment.  I  again  urge  Syria 
to cooperate fully with the Agency in connection with 
unresolved  issues  related  to  the  Dair  Alzour  site  and 
other locations.
13-54795
3/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
On 8 December, 60 years will have elapsed since 
President Eisenhower gave his historic Atoms for Peace 
speech  to  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/PV.470).  He 
called for the establishment of an international atomic 
energy agency to put nuclear material to use to serve 
the  peaceful  pursuits  of  humankind.  Four  years  later, 
in 1957, the IAEA began work in Vienna. Since then, 
the  Agency  has  worked  hard  to  bring  the  benefits  of 
peaceful  nuclear  technology  to  all  parts  of  the  globe 
and to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. The world 
has  changed  enormously  in  that  time.  But  the  Atoms 
for  Peace  mission  has  lost  none  of  its  relevance.  The 
Agency has successfully adapted to changing times and 
the evolving needs of member States.
When  I  took  office  in  December  2009,  I  pledged 
to  pursue  the  multiple  objectives  of  the  Agency  in 
a  balanced  manner.  My  goal  has  been  to  ensure  that 
the  IAEA  is  an  effective,  well-managed  technical 
organization  with  high  ethical  standards  that  delivers 
concrete  results  and  makes  a  real  difference  to  our 
member States. That will remain my objective during 
my second term as Director General. I look forward to 
continuing to work fruitfully with our member States 
and our partner organizations within the United Nations 
family, in the interest of the people of the whole world.
The Acting President: I thank the Director General 
for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (see A/68/324).
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Viet 
Nam to introduce draft resolution A/68/L.10.
Mr. Le Hoai Trung (Viet Nam) (spoke in French): 
First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  for  the  report  of  the 
IAEA  for  the  calendar  year  2012  (see  A/68/324), 
which  sets  forth  the  achievements  of  the  IAEA  and 
the  challenges    it  will  face  in  the  coming  years.  The 
report  also  illustrates  the  vital  role  of  the  Agency  in 
the development and transfer of nuclear technology for 
peaceful purposes and its contributions to strengthening 
the global nuclear safety framework and the guarantees 
of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
In  2012,  the  IAEA’s  activities  were  strengthened 
in  the  two  areas  of  nuclear  technology  and  nuclear 
applications. The IAEA continues to play an important 
role in providing technical assistance to member States 
wishing to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. So 
far, more than 125 member States have benefited from 
IAEA programmes for the analysis and planning of their 
national  energy  systems.  Through  those  programmes, 
the member States can meet their national development 
priorities  in  areas  where  nuclear  technologies  offer 
advantages over other approaches. It is widely accepted 
that the development and implementation of safe nuclear 
technologies  are  effective  tools  for  the  international 
community  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  to  promote  sustainable  development  in  the 
post-2015 period.
(spoke in English)
Nuclear safety and security is yet another important 
pillar  of  the  IAEA  mandate.  The  IAEA  intensified 
efforts  related  to  further  plans  and  guidelines  in  that 
area,  including  the  implementation  of  the  Action 
Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  the  development  of  the 
Nuclear  Security  Fundamentals  that  provide  member 
States with technical blueprints for their own national 
frameworks  for  nuclear  safety  and  security.  The 
Agency  also  followed  up  with  the  concretization  of 
such  guidelines,  including  through  useful  outreach 
activities in regional and national settings. As a unique 
international  organization  with  niche  expertise  in  all 
aspects of nuclear technologies, we are confident that 
the IAEA will continue to play a leading role in shaping 
a safer nuclear future for the world.
In  fulfilling  Viet  Nam’s  responsibility  as  Chair 
of the Board of Governors of the IAEA, I am pleased 
today  to  introduce,  under  item  88  of  the  agenda  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency” 
(A/68/L.10),  on  behalf  of  the  72  sponsors  listed  in 
the  document  before  us,  including  my  own  country, 
Viet  Nam.  The  few  updates  to  last  year’s  text  are  of 
a technical nature relating to the dates and the list of 
the  relevant  resolutions  and  decisions  adopted  by  the 
General Conference at its fifty-seventh regular session, 
from  16  to  20  September  2013.  The  draft  resolution 
welcomes  the  reappointment  of  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano 
as Director General of the Agency until 30 November 
2017,  for  which  I  would  like  to  warmly  congratulate 
him.
Similar  to  last  year,  the  text  takes  notes  with 
appreciation  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  It  also  takes  note  of  the  resolutions 
adopted  by  the  General  Conference  of  the  Agency, 
reaffirms the strong support of the General Assembly 
for the Agency’s indispensable role in encouraging and 
assisting the development and practical application of 
4/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
atomic  energy  for  peaceful  uses,  technology  transfer 
to developing countries and nuclear safety, verification 
and security. It also contains appeals to Member States 
to continue to support the activities of the Agency.
The language of the draft resolution was arrived at 
by consensus after the consultations held in Vienna and 
New York on 9 and 18 October, respectively. I would 
like  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  Member 
States  for  their  constructive  engagement  during  the 
informal consultations.
I hereby submit this text to the General Assembly 
for its consideration. I sincerely hope that, as was the 
case last year, the draft resolution will be adopted by 
consensus. It is also still open for further sponsors.
Mr.  Sinha  (India):  On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I 
thank the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  presenting  the  Agency’s 
annual report for the year 2012 (see A/68/324).
The increasing global demand for energy, concerns 
about  climate  change,  volatile  fossil  fuel  prices  and 
the  security  of  energy  supplies  remain  essential 
factors for any country in deciding on an energy mix. 
Nuclear  power  remains  an  important  option,  not  only 
for  countries  with  existing  nuclear  programmes,  but 
also  for  developing  countries  with  growing  energy 
requirements.
Since last year, two important meetings relating to 
nuclear energy have been held: the Fukushima Ministerial 
Conference,  in  Japan  from  15  to  17  December  2012, 
and  the  IAEA  International  Ministerial  Conference 
on  Nuclear  Power  in  the  21st  Century,  in  the  Russian 
Federation  from  27  to  29  June  2013.  Both  of  those 
meetings  underscored  the  role  that  nuclear  energy 
continues to play in the energy mix of various countries 
and  in  their  efforts  to  achieve  energy  security  and 
sustainable  development  goals  in  the  twenty-first 
century for their respective populations. We note that 
Agency  projections  indicate  significant  growth  in  the 
use  of  nuclear  energy  worldwide,  reaching  between 
17 and 94 per cent by 2030.
The Fukushima accident elicited a global response 
pushing  for  the  strengthening  of  nuclear  safety,  with 
member  States  reassessing  the  safety  of  existing 
nuclear  power  plants.  While  the  results  of  those 
reassessments  will  be  further  refined  as  necessary  in 
the light of new information that might emerge in the 
future, we note with satisfaction that the global nuclear 
community made noteworthy progress in strengthening 
nuclear  safety  in  2012.  An  overwhelming  majority 
of  member  States  with  operational  nuclear  power 
plants  have  undertaken  and  essentially  completed 
comprehensive  safety  reassessments,  and  many  have 
introduced  additional  safety  measures,  including  the 
mitigation of station blackouts and the construction of 
higher protective walls. It is a matter of satisfaction that 
safety performance indicator data on the 437 operating 
nuclear power plants showed that the operational safety 
level has remained high.
India  is  committed  to  implementing  the  highest 
standards for the safety of Indian nuclear power plants 
and  the  associated  fuel  cycle  facilities.  India  will 
continue to participate and assist the IAEA secretariat 
in  its  endeavours  to  enhance  nuclear  safety  through 
the cluster of measures formulated in the IAEA Action 
Plan on Nuclear Safety. We feel that the IAEA should 
take all necessary measures to allay misapprehensions 
among the public and member States about the safety 
of  nuclear  power  plants,  taking  into  account  the 
advances  in  relevant  design  and  technology  areas.  In 
that  connection,  we  wish  to  acknowledge  the  visit  of 
the  IAEA  Director  General  to  India  in  March  2013, 
where he appreciated the safety upgrades implemented 
in the Tarapur 1 and 2 reactors. We would also like to 
encourage the IAEA to make concerted efforts to ensure 
the free flow of the latest information, technology and 
equipment  pertaining  to  nuclear  safety  among  the 
member States.
The nuclear power programme in India is oriented 
towards  maximizing  the  energy  potential  of  available 
uranium  resources  and  the  utilization  of  its  large 
thorium  reserve.  We  believe  that  available  global 
uranium 
the  projected 
expansion  of  nuclear  power  in  the  coming  decades 
without  adopting  a  closed  fuel  cycle  approach  and, 
subsequently, a thorium fuel cycle.
resources  cannot  sustain 
With its excellent physical and nuclear properties, 
thorium  is  widely  and  rightly  viewed  as  the  fuel  of 
the  future.  India  continues  to  carry  forward  intense 
development  of  technologies  based  on  thorium  fuel 
cycles  for  demonstration  in  its  advanced  heavy  water 
reactor  programme.  Thorium-based  fuel  cycles  and 
technologies  present  opportunities 
for  enhanced 
passive  safety  features,  the  utilization  of  the  larger 
natural resources of thorium and inherent proliferation 
resistance. International collaboration under the IAEA 
would  help  provide  a  much  wider  resource  base  for 
future nuclear technology development in that direction.
13-54795
5/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
India  is  committed  to  harnessing  the  benefits 
of  nuclear  energy  for  electricity  production,  while 
according  the  highest  priority  to  nuclear  safety  and 
security.  India  will  need  to  rapidly  raise  energy 
production  to  meet  its  growing  energy  requirements 
in order to achieve its development goals. The energy 
resources  at  our  disposal  make  it  imperative  for  us 
to  consider  all  energy  options.  At  present,  there  are 
21 nuclear power plant units in operation in India. The 
construction  of  four  700-megawatt  pressurized  heavy 
water reactor units is in progress at the Kakrapar and 
Rawatbhata sites.
India  has  set  up  two  Voda  Voda  Energo  reactor-
based nuclear power plants, each of 1,000 megawatts, 
at  Kudankutam  in  Tamil  Nadu,  with  the  cooperation 
of  the  Russian  Federation.  India  is  also  setting  up 
a  500-megawatt  prototype  fast  breeder  reactor  at 
Kalpakkam.
The Agency performed its first Operational Safety 
Review Team mission to India for the Rajasthan Atomic 
Power Station, units 3 and 4, in November 2012. The 
mission  was  performed  using  the  revised  scope  and 
modules  updated  with  the  lessons  learned  from  the 
Fukushima  nuclear  accident.  The  mission  recognized 
the  strong  safety  culture  present  at  the  nuclear  power 
plant and many good practices. A follow-up mission has 
been invited, which will take place in early 2014. The 
preparation and planning for inviting IAEA’s Integrated 
Regulatory Review Service to undertake a peer review 
of our regulatory system is also in progress, and India 
will approach the Agency with a request to undertake 
that mission.
India  has  been  associated  with  the  International 
Project on Innovative Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles 
since its inception and has contributed to its progress. 
We also fully support the other activities of the IAEA 
undertaken  to  stimulate  innovation  in  nuclear  power 
through technical working groups for different reactor 
technologies, small and medium-sized reactors and for 
non-electric applications.
Nuclear energy has a crucial role to play in India’s 
achievement  of 
its  sustainable  economic  growth 
objectives.  At  the  same  time,  India  is  extensively 
engaged in the development of nuclear technologies in 
diverse  fields  extending  beyond  nuclear  power.  They 
include isotope applications for improved crop varieties, 
crop  protection  and  post-harvest  technologies;  radio-
isotope applications for diagnostic and therapeutic uses 
in health care; and technologies for safe drinking water 
and industry, among other things.
India  attaches  great  importance  to  the  IAEA’s 
work in the field of nuclear science. We contribute to 
those  activities  through  our  participation  in  technical 
meetings and coordinated research projects, as well as 
by supporting the IAEA’s programme on nuclear fusion.
The Agency’s programme and achievements in the 
area  of  nuclear  applications  in  food  and  agriculture, 
human health and nutrition, water resource management, 
the  protection  of  the  environment  and  industry  make 
a  valuable  contribution  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the 
developing  countries.  India  greatly  appreciates  the 
IAEA’s  efforts  in  cancer  management,  particularly 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy.  We 
will  continue  to  support  Agency  activities  in  those 
areas,  including  by  offering  the  services  of  experts 
and training research fellows in reputable institutions 
around the country.
the 
There  is  widespread  recognition  that  the  threat 
of  nuclear  terrorism  is  one  of  the  pressing  challenges 
facing 
international  community.  Responsible 
national action and effective international cooperation 
are 
therefore  required  for  strengthening  nuclear 
security in order to prevent vulnerable nuclear material 
from  falling  into  the  hands  of  non-State  actors.  India 
has  consistently  supported  the  IAEA’s  important  role 
in  facilitating  national  efforts  to  strengthen  nuclear 
security and foster effective international cooperation.
At  the  Nuclear  Security  Summit  held  in  Seoul 
in  April  2012,  India  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to 
supporting  IAEA  activities  in  the  area  of  nuclear 
security and announced a contribution of $1 million to 
the  IAEA’s  Nuclear  Security  Fund.  We  have  fulfilled 
our commitment. A collaboration arrangement has been 
signed with the secretariat and is being implemented. 
India is a member of the Director General’s Advisory 
Group on Nuclear Security and of the Nuclear Security 
Guidance  Committee,  and  contributes  to  developing 
the related documents. 
India commends the Director General for organizing 
the  International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security: 
Enhancing Global Efforts, our delegation to which was 
led by our Minister of State in the Office of the Prime 
Minister. Universal adherence to the Convention on the 
Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials and the early 
entry  into  force  of  its  2005  Amendment  would  go  a 
6/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
long way to strengthening global efforts in the area of 
nuclear security.
With these comments, we take note of the IAEA’s 
annual report for 2012. India supports the work of the 
IAEA and is a sponsor of draft resolution A/68/L.10.
Mr. Fananie (Indonesia): My delegation is pleased 
to  see  you  presiding  over  this  important  meeting, 
Madam.  We  are  confident  that  it  will  yield  a  fruitful 
outcome under your leadership.
My delegation would like to express its sincere thanks 
to  the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  preparing  the  Agency’s 
comprehensive report for 2012 (see A/68/324) and for 
his  statement,  which  included  additional  information 
on the principal developments in the Agency’s activities 
during 2013. We would also like to take this opportunity 
to extend our warmest congratulations to Ambassador 
Yukiya  Amano  on  his  recent  election  as  Director 
General for 2013 to 2017. We are confident that under his 
skilled and able leadership, the Agency will contribute 
to promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 
technology.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  work 
closely with Ambassador Amano and to strengthening 
the established cooperation between Indonesia and the 
Agency, and we offer our best wishes and hopes for his 
success.
The IAEA has an important role to play in assisting 
and  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science 
and  technology,  especially  in  the  developing  regions 
of  the  world.  Nuclear  technology  is  a  valuable  tool 
for  addressing  many  aspects  of  Indonesia’s  national 
development  programmes,  particularly  in  the  areas 
of  health,  food  and  agriculture,  water  resource 
management,  environmental  protection  and  industry. 
To  mention  a  few  such  uses,  Indonesia  has  been 
applying radiation-induced mutation and other nuclear 
and  isotopic  techniques  in  order  to  increase  crop 
quality  and  productivity,  thus  helping  to  ensure  food 
security and improve people’s livelihoods. We are also 
enhancing the application of irradiation technologies in 
sanitary  and  phytosanitary  measures  for  agricultural 
products. 
We  remain  confident  about  the  usefulness  of 
nuclear  technologies  and  the  synergies  fostered  by 
international  cooperation  in  the  nuclear  field,  for 
which  the  IAEA’s  work  is  very  important.  Indonesia 
commends  the  Agency’s  various  activities  applying 
nuclear  technology  in  the  areas  of  food  security  and 
agriculture,  disease  prevention  and  control,  water 
resources  and  environmental  management,  and 
radioisotope and radiation technology.
Our  country’s  increasing  demand  for  energy  is 
inevitable, due to our growing industrial sector. In that 
regard, Indonesia is resolved to harness nuclear power 
as part of a policy on a national energy mix, aimed at 
securing  our  energy  supply,  and  intends  to  introduce 
nuclear power plants for that purpose. We commend the 
progress made in Agency activities on nuclear energy 
development,  and  welcome  the  assistance  provided  to 
Member States interested in launching and expanding 
nuclear power programmes. We are especially grateful 
to  the  IAEA  for  providing  Indonesia  with  technical 
assistance  in  infrastructure  development  in  this  area, 
an important step in the process of introducing nuclear 
power plants.
We remain of the view that the IAEA’s Department 
of Technical Cooperation plays an indispensable role as 
the Agency’s main vehicle for delivering on its mandate 
to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology, 
especially  in  the  developing  world.  We  believe  we 
should all continue our support for the IAEA’s technical 
cooperation  resources.  Ensuring  that  nuclear  science 
and  technology  are  used  exclusively  for  peaceful 
purposes  is  a  statutory  function  of  the  IAEA.  We 
appreciate its activities in verifying that States are fully 
complying  with  their  non-proliferation  obligations, 
and  in  confirming  that  nuclear  materials  are  used  for 
peaceful purposes. We are convinced that the Agency’s 
safeguards have contributed to strengthening collective 
security  and  have  helped  to  create  an  environment 
conducive to nuclear cooperation.
recognize 
Concerning  the  Agency’s  functions  in  the  area 
of  nuclear  safety,  Indonesia  welcomes  its  work  on 
establishing  safety  standards.  We 
its 
central  role  in  promoting  international  cooperation, 
coordinating international efforts to strengthen global 
nuclear  safety,  and  providing  expertise  and  advice  in 
that field. We welcome the progress in implementing the 
IAEA’s Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. While primary 
responsibility for nuclear safety is in the hands of each 
State, we believe that the IAEA’s role in assuring the 
safety  of  all  nuclear  activities  worldwide  should  be 
enhanced and strengthened to the extent mandated by 
its Statutes.
Turning to the activities of the Agency in the area 
of  nuclear  security,  we  are  of  the  view  that  while  the 
responsibility  for  ensuring  nuclear  security  within  a 
13-54795
7/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
State lies primarily with the Government of that State, 
international  cooperation  and  coordination  to  ensure 
nuclear security worldwide are crucial, and the IAEA 
has a central role to play in that regard. We are pleased 
that the Agency has helped countries to reduce the risk 
of terrorists obtaining nuclear or radioactive materials, 
and to prevent sabotage at nuclear facilities
In  conclusion,  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  have 
greatly  contributed  to  a  more  prosperous,  secure  and 
safe world. We are therefore of the view that the IAEA 
needs  our  continued  and  strong  support  for  fulfilling 
its  mandate  as  enshrined  in  the  IAEA  Statute.  In  the 
light of the foregoing, my delegation supports the draft 
resolution contained in document A/68/L.10.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Mayr-Harting (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
Turkey,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Iceland,  Serbia,  Albania,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and 
Georgia align themselves with this statement.
We  are  pleased 
to  support  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.10,  on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  The  report  (see  A/68/324)
again  reaffirms  the  indispensable  role  played  by  the 
Agency with regard to the non-proliferation of nuclear 
weapons and to assisting the development and practical 
application of atomic energy for peaceful uses, as well 
as  in  technology  transfer  and  in  nuclear  verification, 
safety and security.
The  European  Union  is  committed  to  effective 
multilateral  action  against 
the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  attaches  the  utmost 
importance to the universalization of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We call 
on States that have not yet done so to join the Treaty as 
non-nuclear-weapon States. Furthermore, the European 
Union is actively contributing to global efforts to seek a 
safer world for all and to create the conditions for a world 
without nuclear weapons, in accordance with the goals 
of  the  NPT  and  in  a  way  that  promotes  international 
stability and is based on the principle of undiminished 
security  for  all.  We  underline  the  vital  importance  of 
non-proliferation for achieving those goals.
The  European  Union  is  fully  supportive  of  the 
action plan adopted at the 2010 NPT Review Conference 
and would like to reiterate its commitment, held since 
the Barcelona Declaration of 1995, to the establishment 
of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all 
other weapons of mass destruction. We therefore regret 
that the conference on the establishment of such a zone, 
due to take place in 2012, was postponed. The European 
Union  fully  supports  the  ongoing  preparations  for  a 
successful conference, in particular the tireless efforts 
of its Facilitator, Ambassador Laajava of Finland. The 
European  Union  calls  on  all  States  in  the  region  to 
urgently and proactively engage with the Facilitator and 
the convenors with the aim of convening the conference 
as soon as possible, on the basis of arrangements freely 
arrived at by the States of the region.
The  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  reaffirmed 
the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  verifying  and  ensuring 
States’  compliance  with  their  safeguards  obligations 
and  stressed  the  importance  of  resolving  all  cases  of 
non-compliance,  as  well  as  the  importance  of  States 
parties  responding  resolutely  and  effectively  in  such 
cases.  The  European  Union  is  deeply  concerned 
about  the  protracted  and  serious  challenges  to  the 
non-proliferation regime posed by the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and 
the Syrian Arab Republic. The European Union would 
like  to  stress  again  that  the  Security  Council,  which 
has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, has the mandate to take 
appropriate action in the event of non-compliance with 
NPT obligations, including safeguards agreements.
The Agency’s system of safeguards is a fundamental 
component of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
plays an indispensable role in the implementation of the 
NPT. The measures contained in the model additional 
protocol form an integral part of the IAEA safeguards 
system, and the comprehensive safeguards agreements 
together with additional protocols constitute the current 
IAEA  verification  standard.  The  EU  calls  for  their 
universalization without delay. 
From the beginning, the European Union has firmly 
supported  the  continued  evolution  of  safeguards  to  a 
State-level  concept  that  is  more  objectives-based  and 
that considers all safeguards to be relevant information 
about  a  State.  That  approach  enables  the  Agency 
to  focus  its  efforts  on  areas  of  greater  safeguards 
significance  and  those  areas  where  the  concerns  with 
regard  to  the  diversion  of  nuclear  materials  are  the 
greatest. Furthermore, the European Union is grateful 
for  the  broad  support  received  from  IAEA  member 
States  for  the  recently  adopted  EU-sponsored  IAEA 
8/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
General  Conference  resolution  on  strengthening  the 
effectiveness and improving the efficiency of Agency 
safeguards.
The  European  Union  attaches  importance  to  the 
highest standards for nuclear safety being implemented 
and continuously improved in the European Union and 
promoted internationally. In that context, the European 
Union and its member States call on all IAEA member 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  become,  without 
delay, contracting parties to the Convention on Nuclear 
Safety,  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a 
Nuclear Accident, the Convention on Assistance in the 
Case of a Nuclear Accident or Radiological Emergency, 
and  the  Joint  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management. In addition, we encourage IAEA member 
States  to  implement  the  Agency’s  Action  Plan  on 
Nuclear Safety, in particular to use all the relevant peer-
review services of the IAEA to improve nuclear safety. 
In that respect, a memorandum of understanding for a 
partnership  on  nuclear  safety  cooperation  was  signed 
during the IAEA General Conference on 17 September 
by  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  and 
the  EU  Commissioner  for  Energy, 
Mr. Günther Oettinger.
In  the  framework  of  its  strategy  against  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the 
European  Union  actively  supports  Security  Council 
resolutions 1540 (2004) and 1887 (2009), as well as a 
number  of  other  international  initiatives,  such  as  the 
Group of Eight Global Partnership against the Spread 
of  Weapons  and  Materials  of  Mass  Destruction,  the 
Proliferation  Security  Initiative,  the  Global  Initiative 
to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism,  and  the  Global  Threat 
Reduction  Initiative.  The  nuclear  security  summits 
have laid important groundwork aimed at strengthening 
nuclear  security,  reducing 
threat  of  nuclear 
terrorism and securing all vulnerable nuclear material 
in the coming years. 
the 
Strengthening nuclear security requires continuing 
effort,  political  will  and  global  coordination,  and  the 
European Union remains committed to those goals. Out 
of the €260 million dedicated to chemical, biological, 
radiological  and  nuclear  (CBRN)  risk  mitigation 
worldwide, more than €100 million has been allocated 
to  the  European  Union’s  regional  CBRN  Centres  of 
Excellence initiative.
The  EU  strongly  supports  IAEA  activities  in  the 
area of nuclear security and was pleased to participate 
in  the  Agency’s  International  Conference  entitled 
“Nuclear  security:  enhancing  global  efforts”,  held  in 
July, as a cooperating organization. The European Union 
is among the main contributors to the Nuclear Security 
Fund, having provided approximately €30 million in EU 
funds to date, in addition to voluntary contributions, in 
funds  and  in  kind,  made  individually  by  some  of  its 
member  States,  to  the  benefit  of  about  100  countries. 
We will continue to provide such support. Last month, 
the European Union took a new decision to support the 
Fund with an additional amount of more than €8 million.
Effective  physical  protection  is  of  the  utmost 
importance in preventing nuclear material from falling 
into  the  hands  of  terrorists  and  in  protecting  nuclear 
facilities against unauthorized use and malicious acts. 
The European Union therefore urges all States that have 
not yet done so to become party to the Convention on 
the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and its 2005 
Amendment.
in 
the  Agency 
the  role  of 
Finally,  the  European  Union  attaches  the  utmost 
importance  to  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
programme  and 
the 
responsible  development  of  the  peaceful  applications 
of nuclear energy. The European Union supports both 
the  IAEA  and  third  countries  in  their  cooperation 
with  the  Agency  in  that  area,  with  a  total  amount  of 
approximately €150 million per year. As further support 
to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  the  European 
Union  has  allocated  approximately  €560  million  over 
the  period  2007  to  2013  for  the  promotion  of  nuclear 
safety,  radiation  protection  and  the  application  of 
efficient and effective safeguards for nuclear material 
in third countries.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  is  grateful  to  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  for  having 
introduced  the  Agency’s  report  for  the  period  of 
1 January to 31 December 2012 (see A/68/324).
Russia  fully  shares  the  high  assessment  of  the 
Agency’s work. We cherish the hope that the IAEA will 
continue to step up efforts in the interest of expanding 
international  cooperation  in  the  field  of  the  peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  energy  and  strengthening  the  global 
non-proliferation regime.
IAEA 
International  Ministerial 
Conference  on  Nuclear  Power  in  the  21st  Century, 
held  in  June  in  Saint  Petersburg,  culminated  in  the 
recent 
The 
13-54795
9/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
adoption  of  a  high-quality  outcome  document  that 
sets the direction for development on the part of IAEA 
member States and the secretariat. We are pleased that 
the  Conference  reached  the  conclusion  that  for  many 
States, nuclear energy is a tried, clean, safe and cost-
effective  technology  that  can  be  called  upon  to  play 
a  significant  role  in  achieving  energy  security  and 
sustainable development.
Russia  actively  participates  in  IAEA  activities 
as  a  financial  donor,  including  through  voluntary 
contributions to the International Project on Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles,  as  well  as  to  the 
Nuclear  Security  Fund.  We  fully  back  the  Agency’s 
efforts  in  the  field  of  technical  cooperation  and  the 
provision of relevant assistance to developing States.
the 
improvement  of 
to  monitor  States’  compliance  with 
The  IAEA  plays  a  fundamental  role  in  the  field 
of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapon. Its unique 
verification  mechanism  enables  it,  in  a  very  effective 
way, 
their 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Our  country  has  consistently 
championed 
the  Agency’s 
monitoring  functions,  including  advocating  for  the 
adoption  of  the  additional  protocol  to  the  IAEA 
safeguards  agreement  as  a  universally  recognized, 
non-proliferation-commitments 
norm. 
An  impartial  approach  to  nuclear  verification  based 
on  objective  indicators  is  an  important  element  in 
preserving  the  legitimacy  of  the  IAEA  safeguards 
system  in  the  field  of  technical  cooperation  and  the 
provision of relevant assistance to developing States.
verification 
In  the  context  of  the  large-scale  development  of 
nuclear energy, the Russian Federation attaches priority 
attention to such issues as creating a new architecture 
for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  cooperation,  based  on 
multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  the 
guaranteed  provision  of  services  in  the  field  of  the 
nuclear  fuel  cycle  and  resolving  the  problem  of  spent 
nuclear  fuel  and  radioactive  waste  management. 
Based  on  those  priorities,  Russia  has  proposed  an 
initiative on the development of a global nuclear energy 
infrastructure and the creation of international centres 
for the provision of nuclear fuel-cycle services.
We note with satisfaction that our initiative was both 
timely  and  useful.  Within  that  framework  in  Russia, 
working  with  Kazakhstan,  Ukraine  and  Armenia,  we 
launched an international uranium enrichment centre. 
All  States  developing  nuclear  energy  and  complying 
with  their  non-proliferation  obligations  have  been 
invited to participate in it.
Another important step in the creation of a global 
nuclear energy infrastructure was the creation in Russia 
of a guaranteed stock of low enriched uranium under 
IAEA management. It has already been fully set up and 
can be used by member States of the Agency complying 
with their non-proliferation obligations.
The main lesson of the accident at the Fukushima 
I nuclear power plant is that safety surpasses all other 
considerations, and that has been fairly well understood 
by  the  international  community.  To  prevent  similar 
tragedies in the future, there is a need to improve the 
international  legal  framework  and  the  technological 
and  organizational  aspects  of  nuclear  safety.  To  that 
end,  Russia  has  prepared  some  important  initiatives 
aimed at dealing with the existing shortcomings in the 
relevant international legal documents. What we have 
in mind is amendments to the Convention on Nuclear 
Safety  and  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a 
Nuclear Accident. Furthermore, the Russian Federation 
has proposed improvements of IAEA safety standards, 
and we hope for broad support in the implementation of 
our initiatives.
We  support  the  Agency’s  leading  role  in  forging 
cooperation  among  States  and  an  exchange  of 
experiences  in  the  field  of  nuclear  safety,  including 
on  preventing  the  threats  of  nuclear  and  radiological 
terrorism.  The  IAEA  International  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Security,  held  in  Vienna  this  past  summer 
provided and elaborated on good indicators for future 
work  and  reaffirmed  the  principle  of  the  Agency’s 
leading responsibility in that field. The key documents 
on which the provision of global nuclear physical safety 
is based are the Convention on the Physical Protection 
of  Nuclear  Material  and  its  Amendments  and  the 
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of 
Nuclear Terrorism. Russia has signed and ratified those 
documents. We call upon States that have not done so yet 
to accelerate the completion of domestic procedures for 
accession to those important international instruments.
The  Russian  delegation  supports  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.10, on the IAEA’s report. We became a sponsor 
of  the  draft  resolution  due  to  the  importance  of  the 
Agency’s work to achieve reliable energy supplies and 
to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Mr.  De  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  At  the  outset, 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  delegation  of  Viet  Nam  for 
10/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
is  glad 
introducing  draft  resolution  A/68/L.10,  on  the  report 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
which  Brazil 
to  sponsor.  The  Brazilian 
delegation  also  welcomes  the  Director  General  of  the 
IAEA,  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  and  wishes  to  thank  him 
for  introducing  the  IAEA  annual  report  for  2012  (see 
A/68/324), as well as for the updated information on the 
Agency’s activities.
Brazil  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  all 
activities  developed  by  the  IAEA.  Today,  however,  I 
will focus my remarks on the ongoing discussions about 
the  development  and  conceptualization  of  safeguards 
implementation  at  the  State  level,  as  well  as  on  the 
results of the fifty-seventh regular session of the IAEA 
General Conference in 2013, in particular its resolution 
on safeguards
Brazil  has  been  supportive  of  IAEA  efforts  to 
promote  more  efficient  and  effective  safeguards  in 
strict accordance with the relevant agreements entered 
into  by  member  States  with  the  Agency  and  taking 
into  account  the  necessary  distinction  between  legal 
agreements  and  voluntary  commitments,  such  as  the 
additional  protocol  to  the  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement.
My country has joined others in the IAEA General 
Conference  in  a  request  in  2012  that  the  secretariat 
report  on  the  development  of  new  approaches  for 
safeguards 
the  so-called 
State-level concept.
implementation 
through 
Last  September,  the  safeguards  implementation 
report  submitted  to  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors 
seemed  rather  meagre  and  did  not  fully  meet  our 
expectations for adequate information and clarification 
on several issues related to its implementation. It also sent 
equivocal signals as to the claimed non-discriminatory 
application  of  safeguards 
to  all  member  States. 
Following  an  inconclusive  preliminary  exchange  of 
views between the Board and the secretariat, we see the 
Director General’s decision to prepare a supplementary 
report  as  a  step  in  the  right  direction.  We  expect  the 
Director General’s supplementary report to be circulated 
as soon as possible, in time for member States to review 
it properly and in time for consideration and action by 
the Board at the session next June.
Upon  the  presentation  of  the  first  report  on  the 
State-level  concept,  we  expressed  our  concern  with 
the  possible  use  of  sensitive  information,  including 
from  open  sources  and  third  parties,  for  the  purpose 
of safeguards implementation. Furthermore, we believe 
that  the  handling  of  information  deserves  a  broader 
debate.  It  is  high  time  for  the  Agency  to  review  the 
existing rules and procedures to ensure the protection 
of  information,  its  use  in  a  secure,  credible  and 
impartial  manner  and  the  secretariat’s  accountability 
to  member  States  in  that  regard.  The  practices  of  the 
mid-1990s  are  no  longer  suitable  in  a  world  where 
advances  in  communications  and  cybertechnologies 
allow for frequent manipulation, fabrication and access 
to  commercial  and  technological  information,  as  well 
as the invasion of citizens’ data and privacy.
We  note  with  dissatisfaction  the  persistence  of 
imbalances  and  double  standards  within  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime.  As  a  key  implementing  tool 
of such a regime, the IAEA must be in line with other 
international  initiatives  to  promote  the  equitable  and 
full  implementation  of  the  mutually  reinforcing  goals 
of nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament.
I  would  stress  in  that  regard  the  importance  of 
the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
Nuclear  Disarmament  (see  A/68/PV.11) 
took 
place a few weeks ago and the second Conference on 
the  Humanitarian  Impact  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  to  be 
held in Mexico next February. We look forward to the 
conclusions  of  those  events  and  to  considering  their 
implications for the work of the Agency.
that 
We  also  welcome  the  resolution  on  safeguards 
adopted  by  the  fifty-seventh  General  Conference, 
which  recalls  the  Statute  of  the  IAEA,  in  particular 
article III.B.1, stating that the Agency shall conduct its 
activities in conformity with the policies of the United 
Nations  furthering  the  establishment  of  safeguarded 
worldwide disarmament.
Brazil notes the opportune reference in the IAEA 
resolution  on  safeguards  to  Action  30  of  the  Final 
Document of the 2010 NPT Review Conference, which 
calls for the wider application of safeguards to peaceful 
nuclear  facilities  in  nuclear-weapon  States  under  the 
relevant voluntary offer safeguards agreements. Action 
30  also  stresses  that  comprehensive  safeguards  and 
additional protocols should be universally applied once 
the complete elimination of nuclear weapons has been 
achieved.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke 
in  Chinese): 
The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  briefing  by 
Mr.  Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International 
13-54795
11/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  on  the  work  of  the 
Agency.
development. China hopes that the Agency will focus 
on the following aspects in its future work.
Over  the  past  year,  the  IAEA  has  been  earnestly 
fulfilling its duties in line with its statutory mandate and 
has made substantial achievements in areas such as the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy, nuclear non-proliferation 
and nuclear safety and security. The Agency organized 
two  international  ministerial  conferences  —  on  the 
development  of  nuclear  power  in  the  twenty-first 
century and on nuclear security — which provided an 
important  impetus  for  international  efforts  in  those 
areas. Meanwhile, the Agency has remained committed 
to  enhancing  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
safeguards  and  to  promoting  the  proper  settlement  of 
regional  hotspot  issues.  The  IAEA’s  work  has  been 
fully acknowledged by its member States.
The  Fukushima  nuclear  accident  two  years  ago 
prompted the international community to reflect on the 
development of nuclear energy. The accident sounded 
the alarm regarding nuclear safety. The recent reports 
on  water  leakage  from  the  Fukushima  nuclear  plant 
are a source of concern. China is closely following the 
countermeasures to be adopted by Japan. We urge Japan 
to spare no effort in minimizing the subsequent impact 
of the accident and to provide timely, comprehensive and 
accurate information to the international community.
Since  China  is  a  major  energy  consumer,  its 
Government firmly supports the development of nuclear 
power. At the same time, China has always upheld the 
principle of safety first and attaches great importance 
to  improving  nuclear  safety  and  emergency  response 
performance. China has made constant improvements to 
relevant laws and regulations, stepped up infrastructure 
development  and  established  a  rigorous  supervisory 
and regulatory system for nuclear safety. 
safety 
cooperation.  A  nuclear 
China  also  actively  participates  in  international 
nuclear 
safety 
demonstration  centre  is  being  built  in  Beijing  with 
steady  progress.  It  will  serve  as  a  training  and 
information exchange platform for Asia and the Pacific. 
China has made several financial contributions to the 
IAEA  Nuclear  Security  Fund.  China  stands  ready 
to  provide  help  through  the  platform  of  the  IAEA  to 
countries that need to convert high enriched uranium to 
low enriched uranium in their research reactors.
China  has  always  actively  supported  the  IAEA 
in  its  effort  to  fully  and  effectively  fulfil  the  duties 
mandated  by  its  Statute,  to  promote  world  peace  and 
First,  the  Agency  should  effectively  promote  the 
full implementation of the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear 
Safety and the Nuclear Security Plan for 2014 to 2017 
with a view to raising the global nuclear security level 
and  to  restoring  international  confidence  in  nuclear 
energy  development.  We  encourage  the  Agency  to 
follow and monitor more closely the subsequent impact 
of the Fukushima nuclear accident and to provide the 
Japanese  Government  with  the  necessary  guidance 
and  assistance  to  properly  address  the  water  leakage 
issue. We also hope that the Agency will steadily push 
forward  the  comprehensive  review  of  the  Fukushima 
nuclear accident and the response measures.
Secondly,  the  Agency  should  continue  to  provide 
support and assistance to developing countries through 
the  IAEA  technical  cooperation  programmes  to  help 
them to develop and utilize nuclear energy.
Thirdly, the Agency should make safeguards more 
effective and efficient, while ensuring impartiality and 
objectivity.
Last  but  not  least,  it  should  continue  to  play  a 
constructive role in addressing regional nuclear issues 
and  should  contribute  to  the  settlement  of  relevant 
issues through dialogue.
Mr.  Kyslytsya 
(Ukraine):  The  accidents  at 
the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  in  1986  and  the 
Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power  plant  in  2011  gave 
rise  to  the  substantial  revision  and  strengthening 
of  international  nuclear  safety  standards  and  to  the 
improvement  of  international  norms  to  ensure  both 
the highest level of nuclear, waste and radiation safety 
worldwide  and  the  relevant  system  of  emergency 
preparedness and response. We believe that, given its 
unique  expertise,  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) has a leading role to play in nuclear-
related  accidents  or  emergencies,  and  its  on-site 
involvement is vital in addressing the consequences.
While  the  responsibility  for  nuclear  safety  rests 
with  each  member  State,  we  believe  that  the  IAEA 
Safety  Fundamentals  should  constitute  the  minimum 
obligatory basis for States with advanced civil nuclear 
programmes.  We  strongly  support 
the  Agency’s 
activities  aimed  at 
improving  nuclear,  radiation, 
transport and waste safety worldwide.
12/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
In 2011 the IAEA General Conference approved the 
Action Plan on Nuclear Safety following the Fukushima 
Daiichi accident. In implementing the Plan, Ukraine has 
carried out an assessment of the safety vulnerabilities 
of  all  our  nuclear  power  installations.  We  have  also 
successfully passed stress-test exercises at our nuclear 
facilities  and  are  participating  in  the  follow-up  peer 
review  process.  The  Ukrainian  national  regulator  is 
pursuing  a  comprehensive  programme  of  revision  of 
national  nuclear  safety  regulations.  We  believe  that 
activities under both the Convention on Nuclear Safety 
and  the  Joint  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management enhance the safety of nuclear energy use 
worldwide.  We  call  upon  all  States  that  have  not  yet 
done so to join those important instruments.
The  elimination  of 
The existing international treaty basis concerning 
the  response  to  nuclear  disaster  requires  further 
improvement.  The  relevant  work  has  already  begun 
within  the  Agency’s  framework,  and  we  believe  that 
positive  results  can  be  achieved  in  the  near  future. 
There are many lessons to be further learned from the 
Fukushima accident. We look forward to the 2014 IAEA 
comprehensive report on the causes and consequences 
of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant accident.
the 
Chernobyl  accident  continues 
to  be  extremely 
important  to  us  and  constitutes  a  priority  for  the 
Government of Ukraine. Let me take this opportunity 
to  reiterate  our  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the 
States and international organizations that continue to 
provided  support  and  assistance  to  us  in  overcoming 
the  consequences  of 
the  Chernobyl  catastrophe. 
Currently, a New Safe Confinement over the destroyed 
Unit  4  of  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  is  under 
construction. That work, to be completed in 2015, will 
allow further transformation of the shelter object into 
an environmentally and ecologically safe system.
the  consequences  of 
Ukraine is fully committed to effective multilateral 
actions  against  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction and attaches the utmost importance to the 
universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. Ukraine reiterates the paramount 
importance  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  in  providing 
effective control over sensitive materials and activities. 
The  Agency’s  system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental 
component  of  the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  We  believe  that  both  the  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement  and 
its  additional  protocol 
constitute 
the  current  best  verification  standard. 
Universal  adherence  to  both  instruments  strengthens 
the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. 
Ukraine  strongly  supports  the  efforts  of  the 
Agency to strengthen the effectiveness and to improve 
the  efficiency  of  its  safeguards  system.  Ukraine  has 
had  the  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  and  the 
addition protocol in force since January 2006. In 2012, 
we  successfully  began  implementation  of  the  IAEA 
integrated safeguards.
Ukraine commends the IAEA for its activities aimed 
at assisting States, at their request, to enhance national 
nuclear and radioactive security regimes, improve the 
physical  protection  of  nuclear  materials  and  prevent 
their illicit trafficking. We would like to emphasize the 
important  role  of  the  IAEA  in  fostering  international 
cooperation  in  those  fields.  Ukraine  welcomes  the 
adoption  of  the  Agency’s  Nuclear  Security  Plan  for 
2014 to 2017.
We  reaffirm  our  view  that  the  responsibility  for 
nuclear  security  rests  with  each  individual  State.  All 
States  have  the  responsibility  to  establish  appropriate 
systems  of  accounting  and  control  and  to  take  the 
necessary  measures  to  prevent,  detect  and  respond  to 
malicious acts involving nuclear material.
Adherence to the international instruments relevant 
to nuclear security continues to increase, but at a slow 
pace.  Ukraine  calls  upon  all  States  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  adhere  to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and its 2005 Amendment 
as soon as possible. We also call for strengthening the 
international  principles  on  nuclear  export  control  as 
well as relevant national legislation.
Contributing to the success of the Nuclear Security 
Summits held in Washington, D.C., and Seoul, Ukraine 
has  announced  and  fully  implemented  its  decision 
to  eliminate  all  national  stocks  of  highly  enriched 
uranium. We look forward to the next Nuclear Security 
Summit in The Hague in 2014 in order to continue the 
discussion on vital issues of nuclear security.
Ukraine  has  always  been  a  strong  supporter  of 
the  IAEA  technical  cooperation  programme,  which 
constitutes  an  important  statutory  function.  Ukraine 
views  implementation  of  the  technical  cooperation 
programme  as 
international 
cooperation  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
We believe that it is important to ensure fair access to 
the  cornerstone  of 
13-54795
13/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
technical  cooperation  funds  and  predictable  funding 
of  technical  cooperation  programmes.  The  key  to 
effectiveness is to meet the needs of the member States. 
In  order  to  maximize  the  socioeconomic  impact  of 
its  technical  cooperation  projects,  it  is  crucial  for  the 
Agency  to  further  develop  partnerships  with  other 
international organizations, where appropriate.
We  recognize  the  importance  of  the  Agency’s 
research activities regarding nuclear energy, particularly 
in  the  fields  of  safety,  waste  management,  innovative 
reactor  technologies  and  fuel  cycles.  In  that  regard, 
we will continue to participate actively in the relevant 
projects udner the International Project on Innovative 
Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles. The preservation of 
competence and know-how across the nuclear sector is 
fundamental to those activities.
Developments  in  2011  have  led  to  widespread 
concern about the safety of nuclear power plants around 
the  world  and  to  deliberations  about  the  viability  of 
nuclear energy as a source of power. We would like to 
reiterate  that  each  country  has  the  right  to  define  its 
own energy mix. Nuclear power will continue to be an 
important  element  of  Ukraine’s  energy  strategy  over 
a  mid-  and  long-term  perspective.  It  will  continue  to 
serve as a basis for the sustainable development of our 
national economy. Its growing importance is reflected 
in  the  updated  energy  strategy  of  Ukraine  projected 
through 2030.
In conclusion, we would like to join other delegations 
in  welcoming  the  IAEA  report  (see  A/68/324)  to  the 
General Assembly and we express our appreciation for 
the Agency’s work.
Mr. Lazarev (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Belarus 
supports  the  activities  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  its  Director  General, 
Mr. Yukia Amano, in the field of technical cooperation, 
nuclear  energy,  nuclear  and 
radiological  safety, 
non-proliferation guarantees, science and technology. 
We attach great importance to the Agency’s work 
in  implementing  its  statutory  functions  to  achieve 
the  broadest  possible  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  the 
maintenance  of  global  peace,  health  and  well-being. 
Such  work  must  be  focused  on  the  creation  and 
strengthening  of  member  States’  capacity  in  the  field 
of  energy  planning  and  providing  comprehensive 
assistance  in  the  implementation  of  national  nuclear 
energy programmes.
Belarus  is  currently  conducting  a  large-scale 
project to build our country’s first nuclear power plant. 
Yesterday, the President of Belarus signed a decree on 
the creation of the first Belarusian nuclear power plant. 
I would like above all to stress that our country intends 
to  carry  out  its  nuclear  energy  programme  in  full 
compliance with IAEA standards and recommendations. 
We  intend  to  use  the  full  gamut  of  Agency-provided 
services for States that are developing their own nuclear 
energy sector, including invitations to IAEA advisory 
missions.
Such  cooperation  is  already  under  way.  Belarus 
welcomed a number of IAEA specialized delegations and 
missions of experts, including a comprehensive mission 
on  nuclear  energy  infrastructure.  Belarus  is  working 
in  close  cooperation  with  the  Agency’s  secretariat 
to  implement  the  recommendations  resulting  from 
those  visits.  I  would  like  again  to  reaffirm  Belarus’s 
commitment  to  the  international  norms  applicable  to 
nuclear safety, as well as our openness to and readiness 
for  dialogue  with  interested  States  and  international 
organization during the implementation of our nuclear 
power project.
Belarus  is  specifically  focused  on  the  role  of  the 
IAEA in  technical cooperation. The Agency’s current 
budget cycle for technical cooperation with our country 
includes  projects  in  the  areas  of  providing  assistance 
for  nuclear  energy  programmes,  improving  human 
resources, strengthening the regulatory bodies and the 
use  of  nuclear  technologies  in  health  care,  as  well  as 
rehabilitating those parts of the country that suffered as 
a result of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. 
Although we commend the implementation of such 
programmes,  we  cannot  help  but  notice  a  substantial 
reduction  in  the  budget  for  technical  cooperation  for 
the  next  two  years,  which  affects  Belarus.  We  hope 
that  the  IAEA  will  not  gradually  phase  out  technical 
cooperation  programmes,  especially  for  States  that 
require  continued  assistance.  The  Agency’s  technical 
cooperation  programme  should  be  determined  by  the 
range and vested interest of Eastern European countries 
within the Agency’s existing framework. 
For Belarus, technical cooperation with the Agency 
is  important  in  terms  of  resolving  past  problems, 
namely, the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, and of providing 
access to the Agency’s expertise and knowledge needed 
to ensure the safe and effective implementation of the 
nuclear energy programme. From that point of view, the 
14/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
Agency’s existing mechanisms for providing technical 
assistance  and  for  playing  an  advisory  role  to  States 
building  their  first  nuclear  power  plants  are  of  the 
utmost importance. 
Belarus  believes  that  the  IAEA,  alongside  many 
other international organizations of the United Nations, 
must continue to participate in the multilateral efforts 
aimed  at  systematically  rehabilitating  the  territories 
that  suffered  from  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  disaster. 
The experience of Chernobyl should serve to help the 
Agency  react  more  rapidly  and  competently  so  as  to 
prevent,  respond  to  and  mitigate  the  consequences  of 
nuclear and radiological accidents. In future, the IAEA 
must not remain aloof on Chernobly-related issues. That 
would include taking stock of the outcome of the United 
Nations Action Plan for Chernobyl and the elaboration 
of  a  new  conceptual  framework  for  new  international 
cooperation on Chernobyl. 
The  many 
IAEA  priorities 
include,  most 
importantly,  ensuring  nuclear  and  radiological  safety. 
Although the maintenance of nuclear security and safety 
is the prerogative and responsibility of States, that issue 
has  received  not  only  national  but  also  international 
attention,  and  rightly  so.  The  Agency  can  and  must 
pay  a  central  role  in  the  organization  of  cooperation 
mechanisms  among  States,  elaborating  on  relevant 
recommendations  and  disseminating  best  practices  in 
the field of nuclear safety and security. In that regard, 
Belarus  will  actively  cooperate  with  the  Agency  in 
ensuring the implementation of the Integrated Plan for 
Guaranteeing Nuclear Safety in the Republic of Belarus, 
for  instance.  Our  country  is  prepared  to  take  further 
steps in that connection, including in the context of the 
upcoming mission of the International Nuclear Safety 
Unit. 
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  support  the 
IAEA’s  annual  report  (see  A/68/324)and  take  note  of 
the  decisions  of  the  Agency’s  General  Conference  in 
September. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me, at the outset, to extend my thanks to Mr. Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), for his comprehensive report 
(see  A/68/324)  on  the  activities  of  the  Agency  in 
fulfilling its mandate. 
Libya  reiterates  the  importance  of  promoting  a 
partnership  between  IAEA  and  its  member  States, 
especially  in  the  areas  of  technical  cooperation  and 
capacity-building,  since  such  partnerships  have  a 
positive  effect  on  economic  and  social  development, 
as  well  as  on  improving  health-care  systems.  In  that 
regard, we would like to express our utmost appreciation 
for  the  valuable  assistance  Libya  has  received  over 
the  past  few  years  from  the  Agency,  especially  in 
terms  of  health  care  and  underground  water  resource 
management,  which  are  among  the  priorities  of  our 
national programme to achieve the goals of economic 
and social development in our country. 
Much like the Agency itself, one of the priorities of 
Libya’s national programme is to focus on the quality, 
and  not  merely  the  quantity,  of  projects.  Therefore, 
for  the  2014-2015  budget  cycle,  Libya  has  proposed 
four  draft  resolutions  on  technical  cooperation,  three 
of  which  —  pertaining  to  the  introduction  of  nuclear 
energy, the management of naturally generated nuclear 
waste  and  the  fight  against  crop  pests  —  have  been 
approved.  Libya  also  welcomes  the  effective  role  of 
the  Agency  in  capacity-building  within  the  health-
care system through a number of national and regional 
projects  that  have  undoubtedly  contributed  to  the 
establishment  of  radiation  treatment  and  diagnostic 
centres  and  the  use  of  nuclear  medicine  and  to  the 
development of a national policy aimed at combatting 
cancer. Moreover, Libya commends the assistance that 
it has received from the Agency for capacity-building 
in energy planning and for implementing an action plan 
to modernize the national infrastructure so as to ensure 
that nuclear power can be introduced in the country. 
Libya  welcomes  and  fully  acknowledges 
the 
importance  of  measures  taken  by  the  IAEA  to  foster 
international  cooperation  in  the  field  of  nuclear  and 
radiation  safety.  It  has  even  established  a  national 
office  for  nuclear  supervision,  charged  with  the  task 
of serving as an independent watchdog, in accordance 
with  international  standards  and  the  relevant  treaties 
and conventions to which Libya has acceded, including 
the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a  Nuclear 
Accident. Moreover, Libya has established a committee 
on  emergencies  and  preparedness  in  the  event  of  a 
nuclear or radiation accident, for which it has received 
valuable  assistance  from  the  IAEA  through  a  pilot 
regional  project  on  developing  national  capacities  in 
that regard. 
Libya attaches a great deal of importance to nuclear 
safety  and  security,  so  much  so  that  the  IAEA’s  legal 
services  have  reviewed  and  presented  a  law  that  it 
drafted on nuclear power to a special committee for its 
13-54795
15/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
approval. Libya hopes to amend and share that law with 
local authorities with a view to its adoption. Libya was 
so eager to ensure capacity-building in nuclear safety 
and  to  ensure  the  protection  of  nuclear  materials  and 
facilities  during  implementation,  storage  or  transfer 
nationally and across borders that it organized, with the 
IAEA,  a  workshop  to  identify  the  design  basis  threat 
from 25 to 27 February, which has had a very positive 
impact on promoting national capacities in the field of 
the physical protection of nuclear facilities.
Furthermore,  Libya  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the 
IAEA  aimed  at  enhancing  its  activities  in  the  field 
of  nuclear  technology  and  science  and  their  various 
applications, in particular the use of radio isotopes in 
the management of water resources and the production 
of potable water by means of small and medium-sized 
nuclear  reactors.  Considering  that  Libya  is  a  country 
that  suffers  from  water  shortages,  planning  is  geared 
towards  the  desalination  of  sea  water  by  means  of 
nuclear  energy.  In  that  regard,  Libya  has  expressed 
its keen interest to participate in coordinated research 
projects related to the nuclear desalination of sea water, 
especially those listed under the supervision and control 
of the IAEA, as well as to join the International Project 
on Innovative Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles.
Libya reiterates the inalienable right of the parties to 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
(NPT)  to  the  development,  research,  production  and 
use  of  nuclear  power  for  peaceful  purposes  without 
discrimination  and  in  accordance  with  articles  I  and 
II  of  the  Treaty.  Nonetheless,  preserving  the  delicate 
balance between rights and obligations, as stipulated in 
the Treaty, is a sine qua non.
Libya acknowledges the central role played by the 
IAEA,  as  well  as  its  security  safeguards  system,  and 
supports  enhancing  its  effectiveness.  In  that  respect, 
we would like to reaffirm several points.
First,  we  stress  the  pivotal  role  of  the  IAEA  in 
monitoring and verification and in providing technical 
assistance to developing countries with respect to the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Secondly,  we  underscore  the  equal  right  of  all 
States  to  possess  and  use  nuclear  power  for  peaceful 
purposes,  thereby  not  permitting  specific  countries 
to  monopolize  the  use  of  nuclear  technology  while 
depriving others of that right.
Thirdly, we emphasize the importance of committing 
all  countries,  without  exception,  to  submitting  their 
nuclear establishments to the international control and 
verification system of the IAEA.
the 
Fourthly, 
international  community  must 
exert  pressure  on  Israel  to  accede  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  and  thus 
to  submit  all  its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  Agency’s 
international monitoring and verification system.
The Libyan delegation reiterates its full support for 
international  efforts  aimed  at  establishing  additional 
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  and  zones  free  of  other 
weapons of mass destruction worldwide. That is a step 
in  the  right  direction  to  rid  the  world  of  the  dangers 
of  such  weapons.  To  achieve  that  goal,  we  call  upon 
the  Secretary-General  and  other  parties  involved  in 
organizing  the  special  conference  on  transforming 
the  Middle  East  into  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons, 
which  was  supposed  to  be  held  in  2012,  to  shoulder 
their  responsibilities  and  redouble  their  efforts  in 
order  to  implement  the  provisions  of  resolution  50/9, 
as  well  as  the  outcome  document  of  the  2010  NPT 
Review  Conference  (NPT/CONF.2010/50/(Vol.  I)),  to 
ensure that the conference is held before the end of this 
year. We also call upon them to convince all countries 
of  the  region  to  participate  in  the  proceedings  of  the 
conference in earnest to safeguard its success and the 
achievement of its goals.
In conclusion, Libya reiterates its desire to develop 
and  support  its  partnership  and  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA in all transparency.
Mrs.  Ledesma  Hernández  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  Cuba  welcomes  and  supports  the  important 
role of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
in 
priority  areas  such  as  human  health,  food  security, 
environmental protection and the management of water 
resources  constitutes  an  important  contribution  to 
improving the quality of life on our planet.
application  of  nuclear 
The 
technology 
As  an  example  of  the  excellent  state  of  relations 
between the IAEA and Cuba, the Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano, paid an official visit to Cuba from 29 September 
and 1 October, during which he met with Raúl Castro 
Ruz, President of the Council of State and the Council 
of Ministers of the Republic of Cuba, as well as with 
other  senior  officials  of  the  Cuban  Government.  The 
Director General also visited various Cuban scientific 
centres and institutions, where he was able to confirm 
16/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
the country’s progress in the use of nuclear technology 
in the service of life. 
During  his  visit  to  the  Isotope  Centre  of  the 
National  Institute  of  Oncology  and  Radiobiology  and 
the National Institute of Cardiology and Cardiovascular 
Surgery, the Director General was able to observe at first 
hand Cuba’s impressive use of nuclear technology as a 
tool for medical diagnosis, research and development, 
as  well  as  for  training  highly  qualified  specialists  in 
nuclear applications. The Director General pointed out 
that  Cuba  was  an  active  member  of  the  IAEA  in  the 
region  and  stressed  the  valuable  role  Cuban  experts 
have played in many areas related to nuclear activities 
by sharing their knowledge and experience with other 
countries.
Cuba  accords  particular  importance  to  technical 
cooperation with the Agency as an essential means for 
promoting nuclear technologies in developing countries. 
The  IAEA’s  technical  cooperation  projects  with  Cuba 
are harmoniously integrated into the country’s priority 
development  programmes,  which  guarantees 
their 
imipact and continuity. It bears noting that Cuba stands 
out for the high completion percentage of its technical 
cooperation  projects,  which  regularly  surpasss  the 
general yearly average rate for the IAEA.
Of  equal  importance  is  Cuba’s  participation  in 
regional and interregional projects that have achieved 
significant  results,  as  well  as  our  contribution,  along 
with  other  countries,  to  expert  missions,  the  courses, 
workshops  and  technical  meetings  held  in  Cuba,  and 
our hosting of visiting scientists and scientific fellows 
at our institutions.
Cuba  also  believes 
that  collaboration  among 
developing  countries  is  of  vital  importance.  For  that 
reason,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  Regional 
Cooperative  Arrangements  for 
the  Promotion  of 
Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America  as 
an essential mechanism for promoting cooperation on 
nuclear  issues  among  the  countries  of  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean.  We  welcome  the  measures  that 
have been applied by member States and the IAEA to 
strengthen it, in which Cuba is playing an active role.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
that  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America 
has kept in place against Cuba for more than 50 years 
affects  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in  our  country 
and  violates  the  Statute  of  that  body.  Because  of  the 
blockade,  the  IAEA  continues  to  face  difficulties  in 
acquiring specialized equipment for projects in Cuba, 
due  to  the  fact  that  American  companies  and  those 
whose capital comes from that country are not allowed 
to sell such products for use in Cuba under the threat 
of sanctions. Cuban nationals are also prevented from 
participating  in  training  opportunities  in  the  United 
States, and that affects the implementation of projects 
in  the  fight  against  cancer,  a  priority  of  the  IAEA. 
While denouncing once again the unjust and criminal 
blockade against Cuba, we also recognize the constant 
efforts of the IAEA secretariat to find alternatives and 
solutions in the midst of such an unfavourable scenario.
Cuba  values  the  work  of  the  IAEA  in  the  area  of 
physical nuclear safety and we stress the fundamental 
responsibility  of  States  in  that  realm.  We  commend 
the  excellent  level  of  cooperation  achieved  with  the 
IAEA’s  Office  of  Physical  Protection  and  Material 
Security in implementing projects to improve physical 
nuclear  security  in  border  control  and  facilities  with 
category  1  and  2  radioactive  sources.  My  country 
welcomes the outcome of the International Conference 
on Nuclear Safety, held in Vienna from 1 to 5 July with 
the  participation  of  all  IAEA  member  States,  and  the 
intention  to  hold  such  conferences  every  three  years, 
because we are convinced that the IAEA has a key role 
to  play  in  physical  nuclear  security.  In  that  context,  I 
would like to note that Cuba has deposited its instrument 
ratifying  the  Amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  confirming 
our  commitment  in  this  area  and  our  good  relations 
with the IAEA. 
We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  strengthening 
the  nuclear  security  regime  at  the  international  level, 
with  the  primary  responsibility  for  that  resting  with 
those  countries  possessing  nuclear  facilities,  and 
ensuring a central role for the IAEA in promoting and 
coordinating  international  efforts  and  cooperation 
aimed at strengthening nuclear security worldwide.
Cuba  is  proud  to  have  achieved  IAEA  double 
certification,  for  the  sixth  consecutive  year,  for  its 
strict  compliance  with  its  safeguards  commitments, 
confirming that we are a country that does not divert 
materials  or  possess  any  unreported  materials  or 
installations.  The  most  recent  safeguards  inspection, 
in late October, also concluded with excellent results. 
We  consider  safeguards  extremely  important,  as  well 
as  the  IAEA  secretariat’s  impartial  and  professional 
action concerning activities occurring in that area. We 
have  repeatedly  spoken  out  against  its  politicization 
13-54795
17/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
and  manipulation  for  political  ends,  and  against  the 
double standards that, regrettably, tend to prevail in its 
analysis.
that  activities 
We  maintain  our  position 
in 
safeguards  areas  are  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the 
IAEA, which is why we have rejected decisions on this 
subject  that  have  involved  the  Security  Council.  We 
affirm  that  verification  activities  must  first  respect 
the  sovereignty  and  national  interests  of  member 
States. We urge the secretariat of the IAEA to continue 
working  to  foster  a  climate  of  impartiality,  trust, 
understanding  and  transparency,  based  on  objectivity 
and truth and conducive to the settling specific cases 
concerning  compliance  with  safeguards  agreements 
under consideration by the Board of Governors or the 
General Conference of the IAEA. In that connection, we 
reaffirm  the  importance  of  respecting  the  inalienable 
right  of  all  States  to  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful purposes.
We  reiterate  our  support  for  the  denuclearization 
of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  a  settlement  negotiated 
by the actors involved. We are of the firm belief that a 
long-term solution to the nuclear issue on the peninsula 
can be reached only through diplomacy and dialogue by 
peaceful means.
We also reiterate our support for the establishment 
of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East. 
The  establishment  of  such  a  zone,  besides  being  an 
important contribution to achieving the goal of nuclear 
disarmament, would be a major step forward in the peace 
process in the region. In order to achieve that, Israel must 
become a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) without delay and without 
conditions,  and  must  submit  its  nuclear  facilities  to 
comprehensive IAEA safeguards. In that context, Cuba 
considers  the  failure  to  comply  with  the  decision  to 
hold a conference in 2012 on establishing a zone in the 
Middle East free of nuclear weapons and other weapons 
of mass destruction to be disturbing and unjustifiable. 
The holding of such a conference is an important and 
integral  part  of  the  Final  Document  of  the  2010  NPT 
Review Conference (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)). We 
urge  that  a  conference  take  place  without  delay  and 
before the end of this year.
The  first  high-level  meeting  of 
the  General 
Assembly  on  nuclear  disarmament  (see  A/68/PV.11), 
unquestionably  a  historic  event,  was  held  very 
successfully 
demonstrating 
26  September, 
on 
broad  global  support  for  nuclear  disarmament.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  is  working  on  an  important 
follow-up meeting aimed at translating its implications 
into concrete actions that can help to ensure the total 
elimination  and  prohibition  of  nuclear  weapons. 
Among  the  proposed  initiatives  is  the  designation 
of  26  September  as  an  international  day  for  the  total 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons,  which  we  hope  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency will support and 
promote.
While  we  endorse  the  important  role  played  by 
the  IAEA  and  its  ties  to  the  United  Nations  system, 
particularly  its  disarmament  machinery,  we  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  that  our  joint  efforts  must 
continue  to  advocate  for  nuclear  disarmament  as  a 
top  priority  in  view  of  the  serious  threat  posed  to 
international peace and security and the survival of the 
human species by the existence of tens of thousands of 
nuclear weapons and military doctrines and strategies 
that perpetuate the possession and use of such weapons. 
That  is  why  nuclear  disarmament  cannot  remain  a 
continually  postponed,  conditional  goal.  Cuba  will 
stand  firm  in  the  battle  to  achieve  a  world  free  of 
nuclear weapons, a commitment we must all make for 
future generations.
(Egypt): 
Mr.  Mootaz  Ahmadein  Khalil 
I 
would  first  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  for  his  report.  In 
recognition  of  the  valued  activities  of  the  IAEA, 
Egypt once again joins the list of sponsors of today’s 
draft  resolution  on  the  Agency’s  report  (A/68/L.10), 
introduced by the representative of Viet Nam. 
I would like to highlight the following points with 
regard to the three main pillars of the Agency’s work.
First,  concerning  nuclear  technology,  we  note 
that the report (see A/68/324) presents nuclear energy 
as  a  low-carbon  source  that  reduces  the  emission  of 
greenhouse  gases  in  energy  generation  and  mitigates 
global  warming.  That  demonstrates  the  potential  of 
nuclear  energy,  particularly  taking  into  consideration 
the fact that developing countries face challenges in the 
areas of both energy and climate change. 
The  IAEA’s  projections,  according  to  the  report 
for  2012,  indicate  significant  growth  in  the  use  of 
nuclear  energy  worldwide.  We  see  that  as  proof  of  a 
growing  determination  to  exercise  the  inalienable 
right  to  develop  research,  production  and  uses  of 
18/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  recognized  in 
article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). In order to enable developing 
countries  to  exercise  their  right  to  benefit  from  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technologies,  including  in 
electricity  generation,  health,  agriculture,  food,  water 
resources  and  radioisotopes,  priority  should  be  given 
to  the  Agency’s  activities  in  the  field  of  technical 
cooperation. 
We reaffirm the necessity of securing both adequate 
and predictable funding for international cooperation, 
which  is  one  of  the  main  pillars  of  the  work  of  the 
Agency, in accordance with its statute.
Mr. Arias (Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Secondly, in the area of nuclear safety and security, 
the report mentions that the impact of the Fukushima 
accident continued to be felt last year, slowing nuclear 
power’s rate of expansion. It also highlights the fact that 
managing the problem of ageing where nuclear power 
plants and research reactors are concerned continues to 
be an important issue. In that regard, Egypt reiterates 
the importance of the Agency’s central role in matters 
relating  to  nuclear  safety,  through  its  assistance  to 
member  States  with  capacity-building  and  relevant 
infrastructure.  Those  aspects  are  important  priorities 
in the implementation of the Agency’s Action Plan on 
Nuclear Safety.
On nuclear security, I wish to mention the IAEA’s 
International Conference on Nuclear Security, held in 
Vienna in July. The primary responsibility for nuclear 
safety  and  nuclear  security  rests  with  the  State  in 
question. Initiatives and measures aimed at enhancing 
nuclear  security  and  safety  should  not  be  used  as  a 
pretext for restricting the right of countries to develop 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Thirdly,  with  regard  to  verification,  the  rights 
and  privileges  related  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy are anchored in the NPT, the cornerstone of the 
non-proliferation  regime.  The  NPT  lacks  universality 
in the Middle East. All States of the Middle East apply 
comprehensive safeguards except Israel, whose opaque 
nuclear activities remain outside international control, 
in  disregard  of  the  many  United  Nations  and  IAEA 
resolutions  calling  for  its  accession  to  the  NPT  as  a 
non-nuclear-weapon State. There is no doubt that this 
situation  increases  the  risk  of  nuclear  proliferation  in 
the Middle East.
We regret that no conference on the establishment 
of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons 
of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East was 
held in 2012, as had been mandated by the 2010 NPT 
Review  Conference.  During  the  general  debate  of  the 
present  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Foreign 
Minister  of  Egypt  announced  yet  another  Egyptian 
initiative to facilitate the establishment of a Middle East 
zone  free  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  (see  A/68/
PV.18).  The  implementation  of  that  initiative  would 
subject all nuclear facilities in the Middle East to full-
scope IAEA safeguards. In so doing, it would enhance 
the  Agency’s  verification  activities  in  the  region  and 
consolidate its role in ensuring the non-proliferation of 
nuclear weapons throughout the world.
As  coordinator  of  the  New  Agenda  Coalition 
(NAC),  Egypt  introduced,  on  behalf  of  the  Coalition, 
the annual draft resolution entitled “Towards a nuclear-
weapon-free world: accelerating the implementation of 
nuclear  disarmament  commitments”  (A/C.1/68/L.18). 
The draft resolution, supported in the First Committee 
by the overwhelming majority of 165 votes last week, 
calls  upon  all  States  to  support  the  development  of 
nuclear  disarmament  verification  capabilities  and 
legally  binding  verification  arrangements  within 
the  context  of  the  IAEA.  This  year  Egypt  also 
contributed by including for the first time a reference to 
“safeguarded worldwide disarmament” in the Agency’s 
resolution entitled “Strengthening the Effectiveness and 
Improving  the  Efficiency  of  Agency  Safeguards”.  We 
call on the Agency to make full use of those mandates 
in the field of nuclear disarmament.
We also look forward to the Agency continuing to 
contribute to the follow-up to this year’s special event 
on  nuclear  disarmament  and  pursuing  its  leading  role 
regarding the humanitarian consequences of the use of 
nuclear weapons.
to 
its  determination 
the  Agency  with  a  view 
intensify 
Egypt  renews 
cooperation  with 
to 
strengthening our national capacities in the field of the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology.  We  are  strongly 
committed to supporting the Agency’s three of pillars 
of  work  —  nuclear  technology,  nuclear  safety  and 
security, and verification — as we strive to establish a 
more peaceful, prosperous and stable world.
Let me conclude by wishing the Assembly a happy 
new  Islamic  year,  especially  to  the  members  of  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
13-54795
19/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
Ms. Lim Pei Shan (Singapore): Singapore thanks 
the Director General of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA) for the Agency’s comprehensive annual 
report  (see  A/68/324).  Singapore  has  consistently 
supported the three pillars of the IAEA’s work, namely, 
safety  and  security,  science  and  technology,  and 
safeguards and verification.
Singapore 
is 
to 
all 
committed 
global 
non-proliferation  efforts.  We  note  the  productive  and 
constructive meeting between IAEA Director General 
Yukiya  Amano  and  Iran’s  Deputy  Foreign  Minister, 
Seyed Abbas Araghchi, on 28 and 29 October in Vienna. 
We hope that the follow-up meeting between Iran and 
the IAEA on 11 November will yield genuine progress. 
While  Singapore  supports  the  right  of  all  sovereign 
States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  it 
must be in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
We therefore urge Iran to comply with its obligations 
under  the  NPT  and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security  Council  and  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  and 
to assure the international community that its nuclear 
programme 
is  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes. 
We  also  call  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea to refrain from further violations of the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  to  return  to  the  NPT 
regime and to resume its cooperation with the IAEA.
It is regrettable that three States remain outside the 
NPT. Singapore urges all States that have yet to accede 
to the NPT to do so without delay.
While 
there  has  been  much  emphasis  on 
non-proliferation, we must not forget that disarmament 
is one of the three pillars of the NPT. The goal of global 
nuclear  disarmament  will  remain  elusive  if  nuclear-
weapon States do not take concrete steps to implement 
article  VI  of  the  NPT.  Nuclear-weapon  States  need 
to  take  the  lead  in  reducing  their  nuclear  arsenals  in 
a  transparent  and  verifiable  manner,  and  in  ending 
the  qualitative  improvement  of  nuclear  weapons.  It 
is crucial for concrete progress to be made in nuclear 
disarmament  in  the  lead-up  to  the  2015  NPT  Review 
Conference.
As we work towards complete nuclear disarmament, 
Singapore  strongly  supports  the  establishment  of 
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  as  a  confidence-building 
measure.  Within  our  region,  we  seek  to  preserve 
South-East  Asia  as  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons. 
We  therefore  call  on  the  nuclear-weapon  States  to 
accede to the Protocol of the Southeast Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty,  as  soon  as  possible  and 
without  reservations.  Singapore  also  hopes  that  the 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass 
destruction will be convened without further delay.
We  acknowledge  the  IAEA’s  ongoing  efforts  to 
work with member States on the implementation of the 
IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety post-Fukushima. 
An  Emergency  Preparedness  and  Response  Expert 
Group was also established early this year. Singapore 
is pleased to contribute to the Group. Such efforts will 
help the international community to be better prepared 
should another emergency occur.
We  encourage 
the  IAEA’s  cooperation  with 
regional  organizations  to  promote  IAEA  standards 
on  nuclear  safety  and  security.  Singapore  welcomes 
recent  developments  regarding  the  establishment  of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  Network 
of Nuclear Regulatory Bodies or Relevant Authorities. 
That initiative by Thailand aims to enhance regulatory 
cooperation to promote greater nuclear safety, security 
and  safeguards  within  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  community.  With  Brunei 
Darussalam’s  recent  membership  of  the  IAEA  in 
September, all 10 ASEAN countries are now members 
of  the  IAEA.  We  hope  that  this  will  open  the  door 
to  closer  future  cooperation  between  the  IAEA  and 
ASEAN.
We  also  welcome  the  IAEA’s  contributions  in 
tackling global problems such as food security, water 
and  energy  shortages,  health,  and  climate  change. 
Those are the tangible benefits of the IAEA’s work in 
promoting the peaceful applications of nuclear science 
and  technology.  One  key  example  is  the  contribution 
of 
the  IAEA’s  Ocean  Acidification  International 
Coordination Centre in addressing the growing problem 
of ocean acidification.
In  conclusion,  I  reaffirm  Singapore’s  continuing 
support  for  the  Agency’s  work.  We  will  continue 
working with the IAEA to promote capacity-building, 
in  particular  among  developing  countries.  We  are 
pleased  to  sponsor  draft  resolution  A/68/L.10,  on  the 
report of the IAEA.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  We  congratulate 
Mr.  Yukiya  Amano  on  his  re-election  as  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA).  He  has  Pakistan’s  full  support 
in  his 
20/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
endeavours.  We  also  congratulate  Brunei  Darussalam 
and  the  Commonwealth  of  the  Bahamas  for  having 
joined the Agency as new members.
trained  manpower  and  the  infrastructure  to  produce 
civil nuclear energy. Pakistan therefore fully qualifies 
to be a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
We  commend  the  Agency  for  having  produced  a 
very comprehensive report (see A/68/324) and for the 
reiteration of its key mandatory statutory objective, that 
is, to accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic 
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout 
the  world.  Pakistan  values  the  Agency’s  role  and 
contribution in that area.
Pakistan  is  pleased  to  sponsor  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.10, on the report of the IAEA. 
We  share  the  Agency’s  assessment  that  nuclear 
energy  would  continue  to  be  one  of  the  preferred 
sources  of  viable,  safe  and  sustainable  alternatives  in 
the  future  despite  the  justifiable  public  anxiety  that 
arose in the wake of Fukushima accident.
Recent  international  conferences,  in  particular 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, have shifted the emphasis to sustainable 
energy  for  all.  The  report  rightly  notes  that  nuclear 
energy 
that  minimizes 
greenhouse-gas emissions and mitigates the impact of 
climatic change.
low-carbon  source 
is  a 
In  the  past  five  decades,  Pakistan  has  sought 
to  harness  nuclear  technology  for  our  development 
priorities in a variety of ways, in collaboration with the 
Agency. Pakistan has also been one of the beneficiaries 
of the Agency’s technical cooperation programme.
Pakistan  faces  a  severe  energy  deficit  as  the 
industrial,  agricultural  and  consumer  demand  for 
electricity  increases  with  the  growing  population. 
To  meet 
into  all 
sources — hydro-, solar, wind and nuclear power.
that  demand  we  are 
tapping 
Three nuclear power plants are already online and 
have  been  performing  very  well.  The  oldest  of  those 
was commissioned in 1972. Besides those three plants, 
two  more  nuclear  power  plants  that  will  produce  340 
megawatts each are under construction and are expected 
to  be  commissioned  by  2016.  Additional  reactors  are 
also planned. All nuclear power plants in Pakistan are 
under IAEA safeguards.
Pakistan  is  an  active  mainstream  partner  in  the 
global  non-proliferation  efforts.  We  have  experience 
that  spans  four  decades  in  safely  operating  nuclear 
power  plants.  We  have  the  requisite  expertise,  well-
In  the  health  sector,  18  nuclear  medicine  and 
oncology  hospitals  are  providing  diagnostics  and 
treatment  to  several  hundred  thousand  patients  each 
year  throughout  the  country.  The  Pakistan  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  has  established  educational  and 
training  programmes  in  radiation  oncology,  nuclear 
medicine  and  medical  physics.  Pakistan  is  willing  to 
offer  expert  services  and  training  facilities  to  other 
countries, in collaboration with the IAEA.
For a country of more than 180 million people, food 
security is of critical importance. In the past 50 years, 
four agricultural centres have been engaged in a variety 
of  research  and  development  activities,  leading  to 
higher  yield  and  better  quality  agricultural  products. 
Research  and  development  work  in  the  physical 
sciences and engineering has led us to make important 
gains,  including  in  water  resource  management  and 
the  production  of  most  radioisotopes  required  by  the 
nuclear medical centres and the private sector.
In  tandem  with  the  growth  in  our  nuclear  power 
programme,  our  regulatory  infrastructure  has  seen 
robust  growth.  Since  its  establishment,  12  years  ago, 
the Pakistan Nuclear Regulatory Authority has evolved 
into  a  strong  regulator  and  a  licensing  body.  It  has 
forged multiple links with the IAEA and regulators of 
other countries.
Pakistan lauds the leading role that the Agency has 
played in harmonizing and coordinating global efforts 
to improve nuclear safety in the wake of the Fukushima 
incident. A short time after the accident, we convened 
a  ministerial  conference,  held  meetings  at  the  expert 
level  and  made  preparations  for  a  comprehensive 
nuclear safety action plan.
Pakistan  has  been  actively  engaged  in  drawing 
lessons  from  the  Fukushima  incident.  As  a  result  of 
the  stress  tests  that  we  conducted  after  the  accident, 
a  comprehensive  framework  called  the  Fukushima 
Response  Action  Plan  was  put  in  place  in  June  2011 
for  all  nuclear  power  plants.  Accordingly,  necessary 
revisions  of  emergency  preparedness  measures  and 
internal peer reviews for operational safety have been 
undertaken. We have also invited and supported World 
Association of Nuclear Operators peer review missions 
and welcomed individual experts under the aegis of the 
IAEA. We will further deepen that cooperation.
13-54795
21/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
Pakistan  has  been  an  active  participant  in  the 
Nuclear Security Summit process. The Summit process 
has been a vital catalyst for nuclear security. At the same 
time,  we  have  called  for  broadening  the  base  of  that 
process to make it more inclusive and representative in 
due course.
We compliment the IAEA for organizing a highly 
successful ministerial conference in Vienna earlier this 
year.  The  IAEA  has  a  central  and  leading  role  in  the 
international nuclear security architecture, as well as in 
the Summit’s successor arrangements post-2016.
Over  the  years,  Pakistan  has  worked  closely 
with  the  IAEA  to  strengthen  nuclear  security.  We 
are  implementing  a  nuclear  security  action  plan  in 
cooperation with the IAEA.
Pakistan attaches the highest importance to ensuring 
the  safety  and  security  of  its  nuclear  programme.  We 
have  an  unblemished  record  of  having  run  a  safe, 
secure and safeguarded civil nuclear programme for the 
past  40  years.  Pakistan’s  nuclear  materials,  facilities 
and  assets  are  safe  and  secure.  Our  nuclear  security 
regime  is  anchored  in  the  principle  of  multilayered 
defence for the entire spectrum of any nuclear security 
threat — insider, outsider and cyber — and is guided 
by the concept of the “five Ds”, that is, to deter, detect, 
delay, defend and destroy. We have established extensive 
physical-protection  measures,  robust  command-and-
control structures, comprehensive export controls and 
an effective regulatory regime to ensure the safety and 
security of nuclear materials and installations.
As of today, a specially trained and skilled force of 
25,000 nuclear safety officials ensures the security of 
our nuclear assets. Besides, an integrated intelligence 
component  exercises  vigilance  to  provide  depth  in 
defence.
Pakistan  has  gained  rich  experience  in  the  field 
of  nuclear  security.  We  have  established  a  centre  of 
excellence that conducts specialized courses in nuclear 
security, physical protection and personnel reliability. 
We are ready to share our experiences, best practices 
and training facilities with other interested States in the 
region and beyond.
We  are  currently  deploying  radiation  portal 
monitors  at  key  exit  and  entry  points  to  prevent  the 
illicit trafficking of radioactive and nuclear materials.
Pakistan  actively  works  with  the  international 
community  on  nuclear  security.  Pakistan  is  party  to 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material. We implement the latest IAEA guidelines on 
nuclear security, and we subscribe to the IAEA Code 
of Conduct on the Safety and Security of Radioactive 
Sources  and  the  IAEA  Incident  and  Trafficking 
Database. Our cooperation in those areas has been most 
productive.
Pakistan  recognizes  the  important  role  played  by 
the IAEA verification regime. We have fully complied 
with  our  obligations  pursuant  to  our  Safeguards 
Agreement with the IAEA. The unanimous approval by 
the IAEA Board of Governors of safeguards agreements 
with regard to our Chasnu-3 and Chasnu-4 power plants 
reflects  the  international  community’s  recognition  of, 
and confidence in, Pakistan’s expertise in the safe and 
secure operation of nuclear power plants.
While 
the 
implementation  of 
the  Agency’s 
regulatory  aspects  is  important  in  its  own  right,  its 
promotional  activities  are  of  the  highest  priority 
for  developing  nations.  An  equitable  allocation  of 
extrabudgetary  resources  is  needed  for  both  the 
safeguards and the technical cooperation programmes 
of the Agency.
Pakistan believes in an equitable, non-discriminatory 
and criteria-based approach to advance the universally 
shared  goals  of  non-proliferation  and  the  promotion 
of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  We  hope  that 
considerations  of  safety  and  security  will  facilitate, 
not hinder, the pursuit of the peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy 
the  development  agenda, 
improving  human  lives  and  mitigating  the  adverse 
impact of climate change.
for  promoting 
Mr.  Sul  Kyung-hoon  (Republic  of  Korea):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for introducing the 2012 annual report 
on  the  work  of  the  Agency  (see  A/68/324).  While 
strongly  supporting  the  central  role  of  the  Agency  in 
promoting  safe,  secure  and  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy,  my  delegation  would  like  to  comment  on  the 
Agency’s  activities  and  related  developments  in  the 
fields of nuclear safety, security and safeguards.
First of all, we note with satisfaction that the Agency 
has  successfully  facilitated  the  implementation  of  the 
Action Plan on Nuclear Safety in key areas, including 
nuclear  power  plant  safety  assessments,  IAEA  peer 
reviews,  emergency  preparedness  and  response,  and 
information-sharing.  We  also  welcome  the  fact  that 
22/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
this  year’s  progress  report  on  the  implementation  of 
the  Action  Plan  includes  a  quantitative  assessment  as 
well as a prioritization of the areas where further work 
needs to be done.
The  accident  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear 
power plant continues to be a source of serious concern, 
especially to adjacent countries, because of the spillage 
of  contaminated  water  into  the  sea  and  the  effect  it 
could have on the marine environment. My delegation 
appreciates the Japanese Government’s efforts to share 
relevant information with the international community. 
While noting that the Agency has taken the right steps 
in fostering international cooperation on that matter, we 
urge the Agency to further strengthen its cooperation 
with the Japanese Government, with a view to providing 
the necessary assistance to the greatest extent possible.
The  work  of  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
security  has  resulted  in  major  achievements  over 
the  past  year.  My  delegation  applauds  the  Agency’s 
successful hosting of the International Conference on 
Nuclear Security in July, and welcomes the adoption of 
the  ministerial  declaration  and  its  outcome  document 
as a good basis for our future work. We also welcome 
the new Nuclear Security Plan for 2014 to 2017, which 
builds on the developments of the past decade and the 
lessons learned.
The  Nuclear  Security  Summits  continue 
to 
consolidate strong political will at the highest level to 
advance nuclear security across the globe. The IAEA, 
as a universal mechanism for addressing nuclear issues, 
has an essential role to play in translating that political 
momentum into concrete actions.
Now let me turn to safeguards-related issues. It is 
deeply regrettable that several cases of non-compliance 
are  still  on  the  Agency’s  agenda  after  many  years 
of  concerted  efforts  to  resolve  them.  In  particular, 
unresolved issues related to the North Korean, Iranian 
and  Syrian  nuclear  programmes  still  pose  grave 
challenges to the international non-proliferation regime 
and IAEA safeguards.
Of  particular  concern  to  my  delegation  are  North 
Korea’s  ongoing  nuclear  activities,  including  its  third 
nuclear test, on 12 February, and its stated intentions, 
in April, to restart its nuclear facilities at Yongbyon. As 
the IAEA Director General states in his latest report, 
those actions constitute a clear violation of the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions.  We  strongly  urge  North 
Korea to fully comply with its obligations under all the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  under  the 
Charter of the United Nations. The Joint Statement of 
the fourth round of the Six-Party Talks of 19 September 
2005  also  makes  it  clear  that  North  Korea  has  the 
obligation to abandon all nuclear weapons and existing 
nuclear programmes.
The  IAEA’s  monitoring  and  verification  role 
has  been,  and  will  be,  an  essential  part  of  the  North 
Korean  denuclearization  process.  We  welcome  the 
Director  General’s  statement  that  the  Agency  will 
maintain  its  readiness  to  assume  that  role.  We  look 
forward to closer cooperation with the Agency and the 
international community to achieve the common goal 
of the denuclearization of North Korea.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our  full 
support for the IAEA’s work. The Republic of Korea is 
also pleased to co-sponsor draft resolution A/68/L.10, 
on the report of the IAEA.
Mr.  Elshareef  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to extend my thanks to the Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
for  his  presentation  of  the  Agency’s  annual  report 
(see  A/68/324)  to  the  General  Assembly.  I  commend 
the  programmes  and  plans  developed  by  the  Agency, 
as  reflected  in  the  report,  with  a  view  to  developing 
technology transfers for peaceful purposes, maintaining 
a universal system of nuclear safety and fostering the 
safety of nuclear facilities.
I would like to underscore the Agency’s increasing 
role, in particular in the area of cooperation on the use of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and development.
The Sudan accords great importance to the contents 
of the report on the applications of nuclear technology 
to food security, as well as to advanced techniques in 
combating  insects  and  the  effective  management  of 
water  resources  and  techniques  related  to  developing 
modern 
large  agricultural 
projects  and  expansive  spaces.  On  that  basis,  the 
Agency’s cooperation with UNICEF with respect to the 
areas of education and agriculture, as well as with the 
World Health Organization, certainly takes on greater 
importance.
irrigation  systems  for 
Assisting  developing  countries  in  establishing 
their relevant national technical systems complements 
the  Agency’s  efforts  to  enforce  technical  cooperation 
programmes and plans. We hope that such cooperation 
will be part of the Agency’s programmes in the areas 
of  health  and  in  support  of  regional  and  continental 
13-54795
23/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
to 
programmes 
combat  malaria-transmitting 
mosquitoes  and  the  diseases  that  are  the  most  lethal 
killers  in  Africa.  That  will  enable  the  continent  to 
achieve socioeconomic and development programmes, 
in  particular  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
the internationally agreed economic agenda.
My  delegation  emphasizes  the  right  of  all  States, 
including my country, to develop, research and produce 
nuclear energy for peaceful uses, with no discrimination 
and  in  accordance  with  international  obligations  and 
agreed reference points. My delegation also stresses the 
need for States to refrain from pressuring the Agency 
or interfering in its activities, with a view to preserving 
its credibility and vital role. On that basis, we call for 
abiding by the tenets of equity and justice in addressing 
outstanding  issues  with  some  States  on  that  score 
through dialogue and negotiation, in order to arrive at 
adequate solutions.
its  firm  position 
On  the  other  hand,  my  delegation  would  like 
to  emphasize 
in  backing  and 
supporting  the  aspirations  of  all  geographic  regions 
that seek to designate themselves as free from nuclear 
weapons,  based  on  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which 
constitutes  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  of  the 
international peace and security system. Taking that as 
our point of departure, we are gravely concerned that 
the  Middle  East  region  is  no  nearer  to  achieving  that 
goal. That has been the case for decades because of the 
opposition of Israel, which possesses nuclear weapons 
in  the  region,  and  its  refusal  to  subject  its  nuclear 
facilities to the comprehensive safeguards system of the 
IAEA, as well as its persistent disregard for the appeals 
of  the  international  community  and  its  repeated  calls 
on that matter. Israel’s adherence to the Treaty and its 
Additional Protocol is vital for ending the tension that 
prevails in the Middle East and could pave the way for 
fostering and enhancing regional security as well as for 
the maintenance of international peace.
With  the  same  degree  of  enthusiasm,  my  country 
hopes that the Agency will continue to back the right 
of developing countries to the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy, while ensuring full opportunities for the Agency 
to control such activities. Our conviction stems from the 
fact that the production of nuclear energy for peaceful 
purposes  could  achieve  considerable  development 
breakthroughs,  given 
low  cost  of  producing 
electricity and other sources of energy. The rising cost 
of  producing  alternative  energy  propels  developing 
the 
countries  to  seek  faster  and  more  efficient  means  to 
solve  their  energy  shortages.  We  are  fully  persuaded 
that  more  support  and  cooperation  from  developed  to 
developing countries in the field of alternative energy 
would minimize the risk of resorting to nuclear energy. 
It  is  logical  for  the  IAEA  to  encourage  developed 
countries to work with developing ones in that regard.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  appreciates 
the 
efforts deployed by the Agency as well as by numerous 
developed  countries  to  promote  cooperation  with 
African  States  in  the  fields  of  the  nuclear  uses  in 
energy,  medical  and  health  services  and  alternative 
energy projects, in a manner conducive to the effective 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
Mr. De Vega (Philippines): Cognizant of the crucial 
role being played by the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  as  the  central  multilateral  forum  for 
the promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
the Philippines welcomes the report of the IAEA (see 
A/68/324) and lends our full support to achieving the 
Agency’s noble goals and objectives.
The  Philippines  warmly  welcomes  Brunei 
Darussalam as a new member of the IAEA, as well as 
the recent accession of Viet Nam to the Joint Convention 
on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management.
We  appreciate  the  various  technical  cooperation 
programmes that the Agency has established in various 
fields related to our economic development. The IAEA’s 
importance  in  promoting  international  cooperation  in 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy is amply recognized 
throughout the world.
The Philippines strongly supports the establishment 
of nuclear-weapon-free zones as a way to contribute to 
international  peace  and  security.  In  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  we  have  established 
the  Southeast  Asia  Nuclear  Weapon-Free  Zone.  The 
Philippines  urges  nuclear-weapon  States  to  accede 
to  the  Protocol  thereto  as  early  as  possible  without 
reservations.
The  Philippines  welcomes  the  First  Committee’s 
recent  adoption  by  consensus  of  draft  resolution 
A/C.1/68/L.39,  entitled  “Treaty  on  the  Southeast  Asia 
Nuclear Weapon-Free-Zone (Bangkok Treaty)”.
On the Middle East, the Philippines is steadfast in 
its call for the Secretary-General and the international 
community  to  exert  their  utmost  efforts  to  convene, 
24/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
without further delay, a conference on the establishment 
of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East.
The growing global demand for energy has fuelled 
the interest in nuclear power, which means that safety 
and  security  considerations  will  also  increase  and 
should be commensurately addressed. The Philippines 
supports the implementation of the IAEA Action Plan 
on Nuclear Safety. We take note of the progress made 
in the implementation of the Action Plan with the full 
cooperation  of  Member  States,  especially  in  safety 
assessment  worldwide  based  on  the  lessons  learned 
from the Fukushima accident.
In  the  Philippines,  the  National  Radiological 
Emergency  Preparedness  and  Response  Plan  is  being 
discussed  by  the  country’s  National  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction  and  Management  Council  to  incorporate 
lessons  learned  from  the  Fukushima  accident  and  to 
operationalize  the  Plan  at  the  community  level.  For 
us, one of the lessons is the need to establish an online 
network  of  radioactivity-monitoring  stations  around 
the  country.  To  that  end,  we  look  forward  to  IAEA’s 
assistance for the establishment of a network of eight 
stations,  which  can  be  upgraded  to  as  many  as  16  to 
cover every region of the country.
Recognizing the importance of regional cooperation 
in  regulatory  control,  the  Philippines  welcomes  the 
establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Network  of  Regulatory 
Bodies  on  Atomic  Energy  and  offers  its  full  support 
towards realizing its goals and objectives. In July, the 
Philippines  hosted  the  Asian  Nuclear  Safety  Network 
regional  workshop  on  the  integrated  deterministic 
safety analysis and probabilistic safety analysis for risk 
management of nuclear power plants. The Philippines 
also recently hosted a second regional workshop on the 
implementation of IAEA general safety requirements, 
part 3, in October.
In  the  area  of  nuclear  security,  we  recall  the 
successful  first-ever  IAEA  International  Conference 
on  Nuclear  Security  held  last  July,  which  allowed 
member States to exchange views on emerging trends 
and  consider  objectives  for 
international  nuclear 
security  efforts.  We  look  forward  to  the  development 
of those objectives into concrete programmes, with the 
development of the IAEA Nuclear Security Plan for the 
period from 2014 to 2017.
The Philippines recognizes the critical importance 
of  nuclear  security  and  considers  it  an  enabler  rather 
than a constraint in the utilization of nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes. We wish therefore to highlight the 
successful completion of the project on conditioning of 
spent high activity radioactive sources under trilateral 
cooperation  among  the  Philippines,  South  Africa  and 
the IAEA. We thank the IAEA and the donor countries 
of the Nuclear Security Fund for funding that project.
The Philippines believes that the IAEA continues 
to play an important role in helping countries achieve 
their Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) through 
its  technical  cooperation  programme  and  its  various 
activities  in  nuclear  applications.  As  our  contribution 
to  technical  cooperation,  the  Philippines  hosted  a 
number  of  workshops  and  training  courses,  including 
the regional training course on the use of nuclear and 
isotopic techniques in the assessment of fertilizer and 
water  use  efficiency,  in  September,  and  the  regional 
training course in basic radiation processing of polymer 
focusing on radiation grafting, in April.
The Philippines is also hosting two activities this 
month:  the  mid-term  review  meeting  on  supporting 
sustainable  air  pollution  monitoring  using  nuclear 
analytical technology, and the workshop to review the 
status  of  implementation  of  IAEA  clinical  training 
guides.
The  Philippines  anchors  the  attainment  of  its 
development  agenda  to  the  goals  of  inclusive  growth 
and to ecological responsibility for present and future 
generations.  In  bringing  that  agenda  to  fruition,  we 
recognize the important role of science and technology 
in attaining our MDGs.
In  the  area  of  nuclear  medicine,  the  Agency’s 
assistance  allowed  the  Philippines  to  establish  a 
technetium-99  generator  facility  that  makes  nuclear 
procedures using technetium-99 now affordable to the 
public.  The  Philippines  recently  inaugurated  its  first 
technetium-99  generator  production  facility,  which 
is  expected  to  cut  at  least  50  per  cent  from  hospital 
procedures,  making  diagnostic  tests  more  affordable, 
faster and more accessible to a broader segment of the 
population.
The  Philippines  congratulates  the  Agency  for  its 
valuable  work  under  the  Programme  for  Action  for 
Cancer  Therapy.  We  encourage  Member  States  and 
other funding institutions to donate generously to the 
Programme.
13-54795
25/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
In  the  area  of  addressing  marine  and  coastal 
pollution,  the  Philippines  has  been  designated  as  a 
repository  to  coordinate  and  manage  the  regional 
Asia  and  Pacific  Marine  Radioactivity  Database,  a 
live  database  useful  in  marine  monitoring  among  the 
countries in the region.
In conclusion, the Agency is confronted with many 
challenges and issues complicated by political realities. 
The  Philippines  believes,  however,  that  we  cannot 
allow  our  gains  to  be  eroded  by  such  challenges.  We 
look forward to working with the Agency and Member 
States in the spirit of mutual respect, transparency and 
constructive dialogue.
Mr. Guerber (Switzerland) (spoke in French): The 
past year was yet another of great importance for the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  At  the 
outset, Switzerland would like to congratulate Director 
General Amano for his re-election to lead the Agency. 
The IAEA is facing major challenges, including three 
that Switzerland would like to underline. 
First,  Switzerland  welcomes  the  holding  by  the 
IAEA of a ministerial conference on nuclear security in 
July. The Conference was a success and ended with the 
adoption of a substantive final declaration. Moreover, 
it underlined once again the importance of the Agency 
in reinforcing its coordinating role among the various 
international  forums  dealing  with  nuclear  security. 
Ensuring  the  sustainability  of  IAEA  efforts  in  that 
regard will be one of the challenges over the years to 
come.
the  State 
level, 
its  report  on 
A  second  important  element  was  the  presentation 
by 
the 
the  IAEA  secretariat  of 
conceptualization  and  development  of  safeguards 
implementation  at 
the  so-called 
State-level concept. That report was the subject of intense 
discussion at the IAEA Board of Governors and at the 
last IAEA General Conference. Switzerland, which is 
in favour of any effort to improve the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the safeguards, supported the conceptual 
work of the secretariat by organizing various seminars. 
It will continue to follow closely the developments and 
discussions in this area, in particular with regard to the 
supplementary document to be submitted to the IAEA 
Board of Governors prior to the fifty-eighth session of 
the IAEA General Conference, in 2014. The result of all 
of those discussions could constitute an important step 
in the evolution of the IAEA safeguards system.
Finally,  the  third  element  Switzerland  would  like 
to  raise  is  the  new  atmosphere  characterizing  the 
resumption  of  negotiations  on  the  Iranian  nuclear 
issue. The successful resolution of that issue, in which 
the  IAEA  plays  an  essential  role,  can  only  contribute 
positively  to  strengthening  the  role  of  the  Agency  in 
the  global  fight  against  nuclear  proliferation  and, 
therefore, to international stability. Switzerland, which 
hosted  the  last  two  meetings  between  Iran  and  the 
E3+3 Governments, supports all diplomatic efforts on 
this issue.
Dato Muda (Malaysia): At the outset, I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  introduction  of  the  annual 
report of the Agency (see A/68/324), for the period of 
1  January  to  31  December  2012.  I  also  congratulate 
Mr.  Amano  on  his  re-election  as  Director  General, 
and  I  look  forward  to  his  continued  commitment  and 
stewardship of the Agency.
Malaysia  welcomes 
the  Bahamas,  Brunei 
Darussalam  and  Swaziland  as  new  member  States 
of  the  IAEA  in  2013.  My  delegation  believes  in  the 
strengthening  and  universalization  of  the  Agency’s 
membership,  in  order  for  it  to  effectively  carry  out 
its  mandate.  In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  note 
that,  despite  the  limited  resources  due  to  economic 
difficulties,  the  Agency  has  continued  its  work  as 
scheduled.
As  highlighted  in  the  report  of  the  IAEA  and 
the  statement  by  the  Director  General,  the  work  of 
the  Agency  continued  to  be  of  major  significance 
in  2012.  The  continued  growth  in  the  use  of  nuclear 
power,  especially  in  Asia,  will  require  much  of  the 
IAEA’s  attention  and  resources.  Global  food,  health 
and  environmental  challenges  are  increasingly  being 
addressed  through  civilian  applications  of  nuclear 
technology, including those facilitated by the Agency. 
In the wake of the Fukushima incident, the IAEA has 
also played a crucial role through various nuclear safety 
and security initiatives. At the same time, it continues 
to provide technical cooperation in developing member 
States’  capacities 
technology  for 
development purposes.
to  use  nuclear 
Malaysia  believes  that  the  sovereign  right  to  use 
nuclear  energy  is  concomitant  with  the  obligation  to 
ensure its use in a safe, secure and peaceful manner. We 
are improving our regulatory framework and currently 
26/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
revising  the  relevant  laws  with  a  view  to  enacting 
comprehensive  nuclear  legislation.  It  will  incorporate 
provisions for nuclear safety, security and safeguards, 
and enable the ratification of the relevant international 
nuclear instruments, including on nuclear liability.
We  welcome  the  successful  convening  of  the 
International Conference on Nuclear Power in the 21st 
Century, held in Saint Petersburg from 27 to 29 June. It 
was a timely initiative by the Agency and the Russian 
Federation, as rapid socioeconomic developments have 
increased  the  demand  for  nuclear  power  as  a  reliable 
and  sustainable  option  for  an  energy  mix.  Malaysia’s 
delegation to that Conference, headed by the Minister 
of Energy, Green Technology and Water, took careful 
note of the various approaches on nuclear programmes 
proposed  during  the  Conference.  We  believe  that  any 
decisions  supporting  a  nuclear  programme  should  be 
based on a country’s needs, the consent of its people, 
the  environment,  the  state  of  readiness  in  terms  of 
infrastructure  and  human  resources,  and  the  political 
situation.
My  delegation  also  recognizes  the  importance  of 
regional  cooperation  in  nuclear  regulatory  control.  In 
recent months, we joined our Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  neighbours 
in  working 
towards  the  establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Network  of 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Bodies  or  Relevant  Authorities 
(ASEANTOM).  In  that  regard,  Malaysia  welcomes 
Thailand’s  hosting  of  the  first  ASEANTOM  meeting, 
from  2  to  5  September.  It  is  our  collective  hope  that 
those  efforts  will  ultimately  contribute  to  the  goal  of 
preserving  South-East  Asia  as  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone.
The  Treaty  on  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  entitles  States  parties  to  have  access  to 
nuclear technology, provides for the exchange of nuclear 
knowledge  and  scientific  information,  and  fosters 
cooperation  among  States  to  develop  peaceful  uses 
of  nuclear  energy.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation 
highly appreciates the IAEA’s role in assisting States in 
planning for and using nuclear science and technology 
for peaceful purposes.
Malaysia  continues  to  accord  high  importance  to 
the peaceful uses of nuclear science and technology in 
agriculture,  biotechnology,  industry,  the  environment 
and  medical  applications.  In  that  context,  we  have 
always  believed  that  research  and  development  and 
knowledge-sharing  are  the  keys  to  the  successful  and 
sustainable  development  of  nuclear  technology  by 
member States. We therefore attach great importance to 
projects being conducted under the Agency’s coordinated 
research activities. In the light of the significance of the 
IAEA  nuclear  sciences  and  applications  laboratories 
in  supporting  nuclear  science  activities,  especially 
in  developing  countries,  Malaysia  would  like  to 
extend  its  support  to  the  planned  modernization  of 
the  laboratories.  We  believe  that  would  be  a  valuable 
opportunity for Malaysian scientists and researchers to 
gain training and hands-on experience.
Let me now turn to the issue of nuclear safety and 
security, which my delegation has always considered to 
be  of  the  utmost  importance.  Malaysia  acknowledges 
the  continuous  efforts  by  the  IAEA  to  strengthen  the 
nuclear  safety  regime  and  implement  the  Action  Plan 
on  Nuclear  Safety  following  the  Fukushima  nuclear 
accident.  Together  with  Japan,  we  co-chaired  the 
Fukushima  Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Safety 
in December 2012. We have always called for nuclear 
safety  to  be  addressed  in  a  multilateral  environment, 
according  to  internationally  approved  standards,  with 
the IAEA playing a central role. The Conference was a 
significant step in that regard.
Malaysia also welcomes the successful convening 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security 
in  Vienna  from  1  to  5  July.  That  event  renewed  the 
commitment  of  the  Agency  and  its  member  States 
to  establishing  a  more  effective  worldwide  nuclear 
security  regime.  However,  my  delegation  would  like 
to reiterate that nuclear security should not be seen in 
isolation, but should be addressed in the larger context 
of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
On Malaysia’s part, we have established our national 
nuclear security regime through various measures. We 
have  strengthened  the  nuclear  security  infrastructure, 
in  particular  the  detection  capabilities  in  our  major 
ports  of  entry  and  international  borders.  We  have 
complemented that with established standard operating 
procedures and a system of national coordination among 
different  ministries  and  enforcement  agencies.  The 
IAEA took note of our efforts, and it now recognizes 
Malaysia as a national security support centre, with a 
regional role and capacity. To that end, Malaysia stands 
ready to share its experiences with other member States 
in setting up a national nuclear security regime.
On the Agency’s technical cooperation programme, 
that 
longstanding  position 
Malaysia  reiterates 
its 
13-54795
27/29
A/68/PV.43 
05/11/2013
it  should  be  based  on  member  States’  needs  and 
requests. The Programme should take two factors into 
account, that is, the evolving requirements of national 
stakeholders and the need for adequate, sustained and 
regular funding.
1  April  and  in  December.  Both  satellite  launches 
were  conducted  in  the  most  transparent  manner,  with 
invitations to all the major leading media reporters and 
cameramen — and it was live and followed international 
procedures. 
Nevertheless,  Malaysia  continues 
its  active 
implementation  of  national 
technical  cooperation 
projects and regional cooperative arrangement projects 
under  the  current  cycle.  We  have  also  contributed  to 
the  programme  by  providing  training,  expertise  and 
in-kind contributions to other member States. Malaysia 
has also been entrusted with hosting the Postgraduate 
Education Course in Radiation Protection. However, as 
we  understand,  the  evaluation  of  a  project’s  progress 
is based primarily on spending or resource constraints. 
My delegation is of the view that the evaluation should 
take  into  consideration  all  measurable  parameters  of 
the project, particularly its overall impact made against 
the set objectives.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item at this 
meeting.
The  representative  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea has asked to speak in exercise of the 
right of reply. May I remind members that statements in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for the first intervention and 5 minutes for the second 
intervention, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): With regard to the remarks by the representative 
of  South  Korea,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  clarify  its 
position.  In  his  statement,  the  representative  made 
reference to three issues.
First,  with  regard  to  certain  nuclear  tests  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, as is clear to 
everyone,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
conducted  certain  nuclear  tests  successfully.  They 
were  done  in  response  to  the  infringement  upon  the 
sovereignty  and  dignity  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  as  well  as  to  the  nation  and  the 
people of Korea.
Once  again,  as  is  well  known  to  everyone,  we 
successfully  launched  a  satellite  twice  last  year,  on 
Notwithstanding  those  transparent  and  legitimate 
activities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
the  United  States  questioned  our  peaceful  satellite 
launch and brought that question to the Security Council. 
Its action was purely and absolutely a manipulation and 
misuse of its power as a so-called permanent member 
of the Security Council. History shows that no country, 
except for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
has had a satellite launch raised in such a manner.
Last  year  alone,  more  than  50  satellites  were 
launched by space-faring countries. But no single other 
country  was  questioned,  including  South  Korea  or 
Japan, who followed our launch last December. Again, 
those two countries did not give rise to any questions, 
and the Security Council remained silent. That reflects 
a  typical  double  standard.  Therefore,  in  response  to 
that violent, rampant violation of our sovereignty, our 
dignity and the national pride of our people, we had no 
other option but to conduct the third nuclear test.
Secondly, 
the  representative  of  South  Korea 
referred to the Security Council resolution. Again, that 
resolution,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,  was  just  a  political 
manipulation by one permanent member of the Council; 
therefore we totally reject it.
Thirdly, the South Korean representative referred to 
the abandonment of nuclear weapons by the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea on a unilateral basis under 
the  obligation  and  commitment  of  the  Six-Party 
Talks.  I  want  to  recommend  that  he  carefully  study 
the  contents  of  that  Joint  Statement  of  19  September 
2005  .  It  clearly  stipulates  the  commitment  of  the 
key  players  —  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea and the United States — not to use or threaten 
to  use  of  nuclear  weapons.  But  the  United  States  has 
never  honoured  a  single  commitment  under  the  Joint 
Statement. Therefore, I strongly recommend that South 
Korea carefully study the Six-Party Talks, which made 
it clear that action-for-action is the only basis on which 
to act. 
That  reflects  the  reality  of  the  Korean  peninsula. 
This is not a unilateral issue concerning the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea alone. It was created by the 
United States and is perpetrated by the United States. 
28/29 
13-54795
05/11/2013 
A/68/PV.43
The  United  States  should  therefore  take  the  leading 
action.  As  far  as  the  hostility  and  blackmail,  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will not move. 
The  United  States  should  make  the  initial  move,  and 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will follow.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 88 
for this meeting. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
13-54795
29/29
