United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
49th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 12 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 
Agenda item 119
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
The President: Members will recall that one of the 
priorities  I  have  set  for  this  session  is  advancing  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  As  members  well  know,  the 
road  towards  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has 
thus far been a long and winding journey. At the 2005 
World Summit, leaders expressed support for reform of 
the Council 
“in  order  to  make  it  more  broadly  representative, 
efficient  and  transparent  and  thus  to  further 
enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  and 
implementation  of  its  decisions”  (resolution  60/1, 
para. 153).
At  the  start  of  this  year’s  session,  more  than  100 
leaders  expressed  concern  at  the  lack  of  progress  in 
the  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  10  years 
since  the  World  Summit.  We  therefore  need  to  renew 
the  commitment  of  all  Member  States  to  the  reform 
agenda  and  the  next  phase  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  Above  all,  we  must  undertake  this 
endeavour  in  a  steadfast  state  of  compromise.  I  am 
optimistic  that  today’s  debate  will  provide  a  clearer 
picture of the challenges we have to surmount and the 
opportunities that we must then harness to advance the 
reform process. Although the task may seem daunting, 
together  we  can  make  progress  on 
undertaking.
this  critical 
Since  the  founding  of  the  Organization  nearly 
70 years ago, the world has undergone profound change. 
The  challenges  we  face  have  become  more  complex 
given  the  wide  range  of  new  and  emerging  threats  to 
international peace and security. We therefore need to 
reform  the  Security  Council,  in  particular  to  make  it 
more representative, effective and efficient. Indeed, our 
Organization should continue to adapt to the constructs 
and  exigencies  of  our  present-day  world  in  order  to 
be  effective  and  relevant.  It  is  therefore  in  the  bests 
interests  of  all  Member  States  to  take  the  necessary 
steps to reform the Security Council so as to preserve 
its fundamental role in the maintenance of international 
peace and security for generations to come.
As  the  reform  discussions  move  forward,  it  is 
important to ensure that they are not a mere repetition 
of  previously  stated  positions  —  a  dynamic  that  has 
characterized the intergovernmental negotiation process 
in the past. What is now required is a firm commitment 
to moving the process to text-based negotiation on all 
clusters. The mandate for negotiations firmly belongs 
to  all  the  Member  States.  It  is  my  hope  that  today’s 
debate  will  serves  as  a  useful  foundation  for  future 
reform and galvanize productive negotiations over the 
coming months.
to 
thank 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of 
Afghanistan,  for  spearheading  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  for  the  past  years.  As  representatives 
this  opportunity 
to 
I  wish 
take 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-62259 (E)
*1462259*
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
are  aware,  I  have  appointed  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  as  the 
new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform, and I call upon all members 
to  support  him  in  advancing  this  process.  We  must 
collectively  move  the  negotiation  process  forward, 
as  that  effort  is  important  not  only  for  ensuring  the 
effective functioning of the Security Council, but also 
for preserving its legitimacy.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM). 
I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
organizing  this  debate.  We  express  our  appreciation 
to  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, and Ambassador 
Tanin, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform,  for  their 
efforts.  We  take  note  of  the  recent  oral  decision  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  will  enable  the  continuation  of  the 
negotiations during the sixty-ninth session.
former  Chair  of 
the 
We  underscore  the  validity  and  relevance  of  the 
Movement’s principled position concerning the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council, and other matters 
related to the Security Council. I refer in particular to 
the  directives  the  Movement  adopted  at  its  eleventh, 
twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth 
summits, which have been reflected in the Movement’s 
position and negotiating papers, and to the decisions of 
NAM ministerial conferences and meetings.
The  Movement,  while  appreciating  the  efforts 
undertaken  so  far,  notes  with  concern  the  lack  of 
important  and  concrete  results  during  10  rounds  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters, based on General Assembly decisions. These 
negotiations  have  shown  that  while  a  convergence  of 
views  has  emerged,  major  differences  persist.  While 
some  improvements  have  been  made  to  the  working 
methods of the Council, they have not satisfied even the 
minimum expectations of the general membership of the 
United Nations, leaving much room for improvement.
Decision 62/557 is and will continue to be the basis 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform. Reform of the Security Council should 
be  comprehensive,  addressing  all  substantive  issues 
relating  to,  inter  alia,  the  question  of  membership, 
regional  representation,  the  Council’s  agenda  and 
its  working  methods  and  decision-making  process, 
including the veto. It should garner the widest possible 
political  acceptance  of  Member  States,  in  line  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and relevant General Assembly decisions, particularly 
decision  62/557.  We  are  confident  that  those  clear 
references will guide the work of Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  in  his 
newly assumed position as Chair of intergovernmental 
negotiations. We take this opportunity to wish him all 
success and to assure him of NAM’s commitment to the 
reform of the Security Council.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  be 
addressed in an timely, comprehensive, transparent and 
balanced  manner,  without  delay  and  without  setting 
artificial  deadlines.  It  should  ensure  that  the  agenda 
of  the  Council  reflects  the  needs  and  interests  of 
developing and developed countries alike in an objective, 
rational,  non-selective  and  non-arbitrary  manner. 
The  enlargement  of  the  Council,  the  body  primarily 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  and  the  reform  of  its  working  methods 
should  result  in  a  democratic,  more  representative, 
more  accountable  and  more  effective  Council.  The 
rules of procedure of the Security Council, which have 
remained  provisional  for  more  than  60  years,  should 
be formalized in order to improve its transparency and 
accountability.
Transparency,  openness  and  consistency  are  key 
elements  that  the  Security  Council  should  observe 
in  all 
its  activities,  approaches  and  procedures. 
Regrettably, the Council has neglected those important 
factors on numerous occasions. Such instances include 
unscheduled  open  debates  with  selective  notification; 
reluctance to convene open debates on some issues of 
high  significance;  repeatedly  restricting  participation 
in  some  open  debates;  discriminating  between 
members and non-members of the Council, particularly 
with regard to sequencing and time limits on statements 
during  open  debates;  failure 
to  submit  special, 
analytical reports to the General Assembly, as required 
under  Article  24  of  the  Charter;  the  submission  of 
annual reports still lacking sufficient information and 
analytical content; and lack of minimal parameters for 
the elaboration of the monthly assessment of Security 
Council presidencies.
2/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
In recent years, the Security Council has been too 
quick  to  threaten  or  authorize  enforcement  action  in 
some cases, while being silent and inactive in others. 
Furthermore, the Council has increasingly resorted to 
Chapter VII of the Charter as an umbrella for addressing 
issues that do not necessarily pose an immediate threat 
to international peace and security. A careful review of 
those trends indicates that the Council could have opted 
for alternative provisions to respond more appropriately 
in particular cases. Instead of excessive and premature 
resort to Chapter VII, efforts should be made to fully 
utilize the provisions of Chapters VI and VIII for the 
pacific  settlement  of  disputes.  Chapter  VII  should 
be  invoked  as  a  measure  of  last  resort,  as  intended. 
Unfortunately,  provisions  of  Articles  41  and  42  have 
been too quickly resorted to in some cases, while other 
options have not been fully explored and exhausted.
Security  Council-imposed  sanctions  remain  an 
issue  of  serious  concern  to  non-aligned  countries.  In 
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
the imposition of sanctions should be considered only 
after all means of peaceful settlement of disputes under 
Chapter VI of the Charter have been exhausted and after 
a thorough consideration undertaken of the short-term 
and long-term effects of such sanctions. Sanctions are a 
blunt instrument, the use of which raises fundamental 
ethical  questions  of  whether  inflicting  suffering  on 
vulnerable groups in the target country is a legitimate 
means of exerting pressure.
The  objectives  of  sanctions  are  not  to  punish  or 
otherwise  exact  retribution  on  the  populace.  In  that 
regard,  the  objectives  of  sanctions  regimes  should  be 
clearly  defined  and  their  imposition  should  be  for  a 
specific time frame and based on tenable legal grounds. 
They  should  be  lifted  as  soon  as  the  objectives  are 
achieved. 
NAM rejects the use of the Security Council as a 
tool to pursue national political interests and agendas, 
thus  aggravating  rather  than  alleviating  situations, 
contrary  to  its  mission  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  We 
stress the necessity of non-selectivity, impartiality and 
accountability in the work of the Council and the need 
for the Council to strictly keep within the powers and 
functions  accorded  to  it  by  the  Member  States  under 
the Charter.
In conclusion, I congratulate Malaysia, Angola and 
Venezuela  as  the  new  NAM  members  in  the  Council 
for  the  2015-2016  term  and  urge  them,  along  with 
other non-aligned countries that serve in the Security 
Council, to help promote and defend the NAM positions 
and  objectives  during  their  tenure.  I  also  seize  this 
opportunity to congratulate New Zealand and Spain on 
their success in becoming new non-permanent members 
of  the  Council  for  the  upcoming  two-year  term  and 
hope that their presence in the Council will contribute 
to  its  effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  carrying  out  its 
mandate.
Mr. Torrington (Guyana): In today’s debate on the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters,  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM). 
itself  with 
CARICOM  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
with  the  statement  to  be  delivered  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
Group.
Mr.  President,  at  the  outset  CARICOM  thanks 
you  for  the  high  level  of  verity  and  commitment 
accorded to this most important of issues. Indeed, we 
are fully and firmly in agreement with the sentiments 
expressed in your inaugural address to this session, in 
which you stated that “the need to reform the Security 
Council is urgent” (A/69/PV.1, p. 3). CARICOM thanks 
you  for  your  letter  of  10  November  through  which 
you  informed  us  of  the  appointment  of  Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica, as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  CARICOM  views 
that as a substantive and irrefutable indication of your 
commitment  to  advancing  progress  on  the  issue,  and 
we offer him our full support. We take this opportunity 
also  to  express  our  appreciation  to  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  for  his  tireless  efforts  over  the  past 
10 rounds of intergovernmental negotiations.
For  over  two  decades,  the  issue  of  equitable 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council has been debated in the Hall. Member 
States  have  time  and  again  expressed  their  varying 
positions  on  those  issues.  However,  after  all  these 
discussions  and  after  10  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations, we have very little progress to show for our 
efforts. That must change, and it must change starting 
in  the  sixty-ninth  session.  CARICOM  is  of  the  view 
that, 10 years after the Organization was mandated by 
14-62259
3/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
Heads of State and Government to pursue early reform 
of the Security Council, the seventieth anniversary of 
the creation of this most democratic of institutions will 
be  an  historic  and  timely  opportunity  to  demonstrate 
the  international  community’s  resolve  to  ensure  that 
the United Nations and all its principal organs remain 
relevant and equipped to address the multidimensional 
challenges of today’s geopolitical realities.
As  we  chart  the  way  forward  for  a  post-2015 
development agenda, it is fitting that at the same time 
we chart the course forward for international peace and 
security. To accomplish those ends, we must fulfil our 
collective responsibility to bring about the meaningful 
reform that is in the best interests of the United Nations 
and  the  peoples  of  the  world.  The  objective  of  such 
reform  must  be  to  make  the  Organization,  and  in 
particular  the  Security  Council  —  the  primary  organ 
with  the  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and  security  in  the  world  —  more  representative, 
democratic, accountable, accessible and effective.
The 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
launched 
through  decision  62/557,  with  much  hope  and 
expectation  for  progress,  provided  a  format  through 
which  Member  States  could  negotiate  the  numerous 
positions  on  this  important  issue  and,  through  such 
negotiation, build on areas of convergence and bridge 
the  varying  areas  of  divergence.  Six  years  later,  we 
have seen that merely reiterating our positions does not 
qualify as negotiations. There has been no real give-and-
take  within  those  10  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations. Positions have not merged or moved. Gaps 
have  not  been  narrowed  and  areas  of  commonalities 
have  not  been  grasped  as  building  blocks  towards 
advancing the issue.
It is for that reason that CARICOM submits that the 
eleventh round of intergovernmental negotiations must 
be  qualitatively  different  from  the  previous  rounds. 
Progress, however little, must be achieved by the end 
of this session. It is therefore our expectation that the 
next  round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  will  be 
conducted  on  the  basis  of  a  text,  in  keeping  with  the 
President  Kutesa’s  encouragement  expressed  in  his 
10  November  letter  to  Member  States.  CARICOM 
expects that such a text, which would reflect the sense 
of  the  Assembly  after  10  rounds  of  negotiations  and 
which  could  be  used  as  a  basis  for  line-by-line  and 
paragraph-by-paragraph  negotiations,  will  be  made 
available to Member States. The options must be based 
on an objective assessment of our discussions of what 
has transpired to date, and they must be presented in a 
practical, negotiable format in which real give-and-take 
negotiations can begin.
As we chart the way forward, the basis presented 
must  clearly  show  where  the  varying  positions  of 
Member  States  converge  and  where  gaps  remain,  and 
it  must  reflect  the  positions  of  all  Member  States, 
including  of  course,  the  majority.  In  that  endeavour, 
we assure you, Sir, of our fullest confidence in you as 
President of the General Assembly and in the new Chair 
of the intergovernmental negotiations.
CARICOM  has  continued  to  remain  seized  at  the 
highest political level of the need for definitive progress 
on  this  important  issue,  and  our  delegations  are  fully 
committed  to  play  a  constructive  role  in  the  process. 
Allow  me  therefore  to  reiterate  briefly  the  position 
of  our  region  on  the  key  aspects  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
First,  CARICOM  supports  expansion  in  both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership. We call for an increase in the size of the 
Security Council membership from 15 to 27. CARICOM 
maintains  that  the  role  of  the  developing  countries 
should  be  advanced  and  enhanced  in  both  categories. 
In  that  regard,  CARICOM  has  been  resolute  in  its 
support  for  the  inclusion  of  Africa  in  the  permanent 
category of membership on the Council. There cannot 
be a reformed Council without Africa as a permanent 
and equal member. We call for the provision of a special 
seat for small island developing States in the reformed 
Security Council.
CARICOM  supports  the  elimination  of  the  veto.
However, in the event of its retention, we consider that 
all permanent members of a reformed Security Council 
must have the same rights and privileges. We call for 
improved working methods of the Council in order to 
increase  the  involvement  of  non-members  in  its  work 
and to enhance its accountability and transparency.
With regard to the relationship between the Security 
Council  and 
the  General  Assembly,  CARICOM 
recommends  that  appropriate  measures  be  adopted  to 
enable the General Assembly to function effectively as 
the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative 
organ of the United Nations.
To  conclude,  let  me  assure  you,  Mr.  President,  of 
the  full  support  of  the  CARICOM  delegations  as  you 
seek to advance the important cause of Security Council 
reform.  A  legitimate  Council  must  be  more  broadly 
4/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
representative  of  twenty-first-century  realities,  more 
efficient and transparent in its work, and accountable 
to the general membership of the United Nations.
Mr. Patriota (Brazil): I have the honour to deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four  (G4) 
countries: Brazil, Germany, India and Japan.
I  would  like  to  start  by  thanking  you,  Sir,  for 
your  letter  of  10  November,  in  which  you  announced 
the  appointment  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  as  the  new 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Let  me 
assure Ambassador Rattray that the G4 is encouraged 
by his appointment and is committed to working closely 
with him with a view to achieving the much-needed and 
long-awaited reform of the Security Council. Allow me 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  once  more  for  his  invaluable  work  and  tireless 
efforts during the past five years to move that process 
forward.
I would also like to commend you, Mr. President, 
for  your  strong  commitment  to  the  cause  of  Security 
Council reform, which is undoubtedly very clear after 
less  than  two  months  in  office.  In  your  capacity  as 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uganda, you have been 
following this issue very closely for a long time, having 
personally participated in the adoption of the Ezulwini 
Consensus. You therefore understand more than anyone 
else the urgency of the matter.
session 
of 
The 
sixty-eighth 
the  General 
Assembly  brought  important  developments  to  the 
intergovernmental process. Former Assembly President 
John  Ashe  endorsed  the  non-paper  produced  by  his 
Advisory  Group,  which  represents  a  neutral  and 
objective summary of the main positions expressed over 
the past 20 years and is now a widely recognized tool 
to help frame our discussions. When we went through 
another  series  of  meetings  convened  by  Ambassador 
Tanin,  based  on  the  five  clusters  established  by 
decision  62/557,  some  convergences  were  clearly 
identified,  especially  with  respect  to  the  existence  of 
a clear majority in favour of expanding both categories 
of membership.
In  his  assessment  of  the  current  state  of  play, 
circulated  to  the  membership  on  9  July,  Ambassador 
Tanin also recognized the proactive tone and momentum 
achieved at the most recent session and, looking ahead, 
he pointed out that a text-based discussion remains the 
logical evolution for this process. That is why the G4 
believes it is imperative to start the first meeting of the 
next round of the intergovernmental negotiations with 
a text on the table. We cannot allow the next round of 
the intergovernmental process to be yet another merry-
go-round.
As  for  those  who  state  that  there  must  be  a  prior 
consensus  before  presenting  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations with a working document, let me point out 
that such a requirement has no precedent in any other 
United  Nations  process.  In  fact,  that  line  of  thought 
could  actually  be  considered  anti-United  Nations. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  in  his  statement  delivered  at  the 
meeting on the roll-over decision held on 8 September, 
former President Ashe stressed that a negotiating text 
needs  sufficiently  wide  but  not  necessarily  universal 
agreement. I assure the Assembly that the G4 remains 
ready  to  start  real  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  at  any  time.  Negotiations,  however,  do  not 
happen  in  a  vacuum.  Relying  on  your  authority  and 
mandate  as  President  of  this  body,  Sir,  we  therefore 
ask you to empower the new Chair by yourself putting 
forward  a  negotiating  text  that  does  not  prejudge  any 
positions or outcomes.
There  is  a  prevailing  view  among  Member  States 
and among civil society that the Security Council is not 
capable  of  responding  satisfactorily  to  specific  crises 
around the world. One can clearly identify a growing 
sense  of  frustration  arising  from  the  paralysis  in  the 
efforts to reform it. During the last general debate, over 
100 delegations stressed the need for reform.
Let  us  recall  that  2015  will  mark  50  years  since 
the  first  and  only  time  that  the  Security  Council  was 
reformed, 15 years since the Millennium Summit and 
10  years  since  the  2005  World  Summit,  when  world 
leaders  unanimously  called  for  early  reform  of  the 
Security Council. If we leave things as they are, we run 
the risk of bringing discredit and erosion of authority 
to the United Nations in a core area of its mandate. It 
is time to fulfil the mandate given to us by our Heads 
of State and Government — a call that was reiterated 
by the Foreign Ministers of the G4 at their most recent 
meeting,  held  in  New  York  on  26  September.  As  the 
former  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
pointed  out  in  his  aforementioned  assessment,  the 
seventieth anniversary of the Organization in 2015 will 
provide a “tremendous opportunity” for achieving the 
much needed reform. The G4, in close cooperation with 
the rest of the membership, will keep working towards 
that goal and believes it is achievable.
14-62259
5/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
Ms.  Rambally  (Saint  Lucia):  I  have  the  honour 
to take the floor today on behalf of the L.69 Group, a 
diverse group of 42 developing countries from Africa, 
Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific 
that are united by a common cause — to achieve lasting 
and comprehensive reforms of the Security Council. Our 
Group is bound by the firm conviction that expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of membership of the Security Council is imperative in 
order to better reflect contemporary world realities and 
achieve a more accountable, representative, transparent 
and, more importantly, a relevant Security Council.
Let  me  begin  by  placing  on  record  our  Group’s 
appreciation  of  Ambassador  Tanin  for  leading  the 
process  thus  far.  We  are  heartened  by  the  strong 
emphasis  and  high  priority  that  you,  Sir,  attach  to 
this  long-debated  subject,  and  we  compliment  you 
on 
appointing  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, as Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  lead  us  forward  on 
this  important  debate.  His  appointment  is  a  welcome 
development, as it brings not only fresh leadership but, 
we  hope,  increased  momentum  through  innovative 
ideas to what has been largely a stalled process to date.
After 10  rounds and seven years of intergovernmental 
negotiations,  nothing  has  changed  on  this  subject 
except  for  the  efforts  made  by  the  leadership  of  the 
General  Assembly,  which  has  done  its  utmost  on  the 
issue. The intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council  reform  were  mandated  to  commence  text-
based  negotiations.  As  many  as  140  countries  —  far 
more  than  two-thirds  majority  —  made  a  formal  and 
written  submission  to  the  Chair  in  2009  asking  him 
to  initiate  a  text-based  negotiation  process.  However, 
we  have  been  repeatedly  airing  statements  of  known 
positions  and  we  continue  to  call  upon  the  Chair  to 
conduct negotiations on the basis of a text, an approach 
in keeping with requests to all other chairs in all other 
United  Nations  processes.  This  request  is  consistent 
with what we know to be United Nations practice.
it  simply  cannot 
With the seventieth anniversary year of the United 
Nations  approaching, 
therefore 
be  business  as  usual.  We  cannot  embark  upon  the 
next  round  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  with  the  same  stasis  and 
vacuum that has characterized the last 10 rounds. The 
process  will  only  move  forward  if  you,  Sir,  as  the 
President of the General Assembly, mandate the Chair 
to conduct negotiations at the soonest on the basis of a 
text that is tabled with your full authority and backing. 
However,  if  we  allow  the  self-defeating  argument  of 
consensus  to  emerge  even  before  the  commencement 
of negotiations as a precondition for commencing text-
based  negotiations,  then  we  are  simply  trying  to  stall 
any forward movement on the process, which only suits 
the interests of a limited minority of objectors.
We therefore count and call upon your leadership, 
Sir, as the President of the General Assembly, to ensure 
that the eleventh round does not amount to an exercise in 
statement-making but is a real process of negotiations, 
where representatives focus their energies, line by line 
and  paragraph  by  paragraph,  on  arriving  on  at  least 
a  bracketed  text  by  the  conclusion  of  the  sixty-ninth 
session. 
According  to  your  own  estimates,  Sir,  more 
than  100  Heads  of  State  and  Government,  in  their 
statements  made  during  the  high-level  segment  of 
the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth  session,  called  for  urgent 
reform of the Security Council. All our Heads of State 
and Government unanimously made the same request 
back in 2005. It is therefore a courtesy to the Heads of 
State and Government that we provide them with some 
feedback on what we have achieved on the subject — if 
anything at all in this process – when they gather for the 
seventieth anniversary summit next year. We therefore 
hope that once we commence the text-based negotiation 
process under your leadership, Mr. President, we would 
be able to provide our leaders, when they meet next year, 
with a platform through which a concrete outcome on 
this long-standing subject could eventually be arrived 
at.
It  was  in  1963,  51  years  ago,  that  the  General 
Assembly  enlarged  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council from 11 to 15, which was a modest increase of 
four  in  the  non-permanent  category  only.  Since  then, 
the  membership  of  the  United  Nations  has  increased 
from  113  to  193.  Eighty  more  countries  have  been 
added, but their addition has not altered the composition 
of  the  world’s  premier  body  mandated  to  maintain 
international peace and security.
We  have  a  truly  bizarre  situation  today,  when 
nearly 75 per cent of the work of the Security Council 
is focused exclusively on the continent of Africa, while 
ever since its inception the body has not had even one 
permanent  member  from  the  whole  of  the  54-State 
African  membership.  It  is  therefore  critical  that  we 
move ahead with a results-based timeline as an absolute 
imperative. The use of superficial arguments aimed at 
6/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
avoiding  the  imposition  of  artificial  timelines  while 
calling for fixed timelines in all other United Nations 
processes reflects an attempt at doublespeak. It is our 
Group’s  firm  conviction  that  the  year  2015  —  which 
will  be  the  seventieth  anniversary  year  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  tenth  anniversary  year  of  the  2005 
World  Summit  in  which  all  our  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  mandated  us  to  achieve  early  reforms  of 
the  Security  Council  —  would  be  a  reasonably  early 
date to show progress on this unanimous mandate.
As the only group that has increased in membership 
over  the  years,  and  in  keeping  with  our  tradition  of 
active support for the reform process, the L.69 Group 
has also put forward a number of proposals for turning 
our interactions and deliberations into real negotiations. 
As  a  group  with  perhaps  the  largest  convergence  of 
like-minded countries from the developing world, the 
L.69  Group  has  been  able  to  significantly  enhance 
convergences  with  the  African  Group  and  forge  a 
common position that embraces comprehensive reforms. 
It  has  deliberately  avoided  a  piecemeal  approach  that 
some  of  the  detractors  of  any  forward  movement  on 
reforms have used to hold the process hostage.
Let  me  reiterate  once  again  that  the  L.69  Group 
acknowledges  and  supports  the  African  common 
position  as  enunciated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
Such  enhancement  of  convergences  benefits 
the 
momentum contributing to the forward movements of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  process,  which  may  also  be  recognized  in  the 
negotiation text.
Today,  when  we  see  the  inability  of  the  Security 
Council  to  respond  in  a  timely  manner  to  pressing 
issues of war and peace, when we see the Council being 
increasingly  exposed  to  public  scrutiny,  when  large 
sections of civil society and academia are questioning 
not just its representativeness but its credibility — even 
to  the  extent  of  Member  States  rejecting  seats  after 
getting elected — we should be seen to be constructively 
engaged in restoring the dignity of this premier body 
by reforming it to reflect contemporary world realities. 
The  L.69  Group  is  committed  to  playing  its  part  in 
ensuring that this result, which we all envisage, is not 
left  to  future  generations  but  brought  about  here  and 
now, under your able stewardship, Mr. President.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  On  behalf  of  the  group  of 
States  known  as  Uniting  for  Consensus,  I  wish  to 
express  our  appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
your  new  approach  to  Security  Council  reform  and 
for your willingness to work in close cooperation and 
consultation with the entire membership of the United 
Nations.
The first concrete sign of this willingness was in 
the lead-up to the appointment of a new facilitator for 
the reform process. We warmly welcome Ambassador 
Courtney  Rattray  in  his  new  capacity.  We  are  sure 
he  will  work  with  the  effectiveness  and  balance  with 
which  the  entire  membership  accredits  him,  and  we 
wish to immediately offer him our full cooperation and 
support as he assumes this new pivotal responsibility. I 
would also take this opportunity to thank Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  for  his  efforts  and  for  the  passion  he  put 
into his work. We also thank the former President of the 
General Assembly for his leadership.
For  the  past  20  years,  we  have  been  working  on 
Security Council reform, ever since the establishment 
of the Open-ended Working Group in 1993. It has been 
a long journey, in which fewer gains have been made 
than were expected. Nonetheless, we believe that much 
has been learned in the process. The main lesson learned 
is that divisive solutions are bound to fail and that they 
risk  creating  complications  and  delaying  the  reform 
process. If we want to achieve meaningful progress in 
the intergovernmental negotiations, we must go beyond 
our  traditional  proposals  and  reach  out  to  the  other 
sides. Only then will we be able to achieve the broad 
political acceptance that such a crucial reform requires. 
Beyond this, discussions in recent years, including 
the last round of intergovernmental negotiations, have 
highlighted the principles that should lead to reform of 
the Security Council. We believe the entire membership 
subscribes  to  the  goal  of  a  more  representative, 
democratic, accountable and effective Council. But can 
we agree on how to achieve that?
The intention of enlarging the Security Council is 
to make it more representative. And indeed one could 
argue  that  from  a  purely  numerical  perspective,  the 
Council  has  become  less  representative  of  the  overall 
United Nations membership over the years. But it will 
take  more  than  an  increase  in  membership  to  make 
the  Council  more  representative.  It  will  also  require 
increasing  the  possibility  that  all  Member  States  can 
periodically  sit  on  the  Council,  and  the  best  way  to 
do  that  is  to  increase  the  number  of  elected  seats,  a 
measure  that  would  also  make  the  Security  Council 
more democratic and accountable to the membership as 
a whole — that is, to the General Assembly.
14-62259
7/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
Allocating new permanent seats on a national basis, 
rather  than  making  the  Council  more  representative, 
would only enable a still-limited number of countries 
to  occupy  seats  forever,  thus  perpetuating  a  situation 
whereby more than one third of the entire membership 
has never sat on the Council. It would make the Council 
more  exclusive  rather  than  more  inclusive  and  would 
still  fail  to  meet  the  need  for  more  democracy  and 
accountability.
We  also  need  a  more  effective  Security  Council. 
Accountability and effectiveness go hand in hand, since 
the Council’s decisions must be fully endorsed by the 
United  Nations  membership.  Uniting  for  Consensus 
would  also  like  to  enable  Member  States  willing  to 
contribute significantly to the Council’s work to serve 
for longer periods and with greater frequency. We are 
not  asking  those  who  aspire  to  a  greater  role  in  the 
Security  Council  to  renounce  their  ambitions.  On  the 
contrary,  we  are  asking  them  to  maintain  their  level 
of commitment and rise to the challenge of a periodic 
accounting to the membership of their contribution to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Uniting  for  Consensus  believes  in  a  new  Security 
Council based on merit, not privilege.
For many years now, small States, which represent 
almost one fourth of United Nations membership, have 
been  demanding  a  greater  presence  on  the  Security 
Council. They are increasingly involved in issues related 
to the maintenance of international peace and security 
as well as old and new threats. Our work should identify 
ways  to  ensure  that  such  States  have  direct  access  to 
the  Council.  Uniting  for  Consensus  also  understands 
the  aspirations  of  countries  on  the  African  continent 
and  remains  ready  to  continue  working  with  Africa 
to  promote  equal  and  non-discriminatory  approaches 
for  all  groups  with  regard  to  their  representation  on 
the  Council.  Elections,  especially  for  smaller  and 
developing  countries,  are  the  primary  instrument 
through which they can be heard, on an equal footing 
and with equal dignity. For that reason, we reiterate our 
call to those countries, and, of course, to all Member 
States,  to  commit  to  a  modern  vision  of  the  Security 
Council  and  work  together  to  achieve  a  Council  that 
is accountable to the entire membership of the United 
Nations.
Uniting for Consensus is the only negotiating group 
that  has  already  officially  introduced  two  concrete 
proposals  for  Security  Council  reform  designed  to 
contribute  actively  to  the  negotiating  process,  and  it 
continues to work on a basis of progress and compromise. 
We  support  a  compromise  solution,  a  model  that  we 
deem fair and equitable that could reasonably reflect the 
interests of all. We are ready to discuss such solutions 
to ensure that they represent the legitimate aspirations 
of the membership. We must explore the middle ground, 
and to reach that middle ground we must find a point of 
convergence. Uniting for Consensus has been working 
on a proposal that focuses on creating new seats, along 
with the possibility of longer tenure on the Council and 
immediate re-election. In our view, that formula would 
enable  those  who  have  the  desire  and  the  capacity  to 
contribute more to its work to spend extended periods 
on  the  Council.  The  length  of  the  terms  and  the 
possibility of immediate re-election offer a broad range 
of alternatives that could allow us to identify the point 
of convergence we are striving for.
Of  course,  Uniting  for  Consensus  also  remains 
open  to  considering  new  ideas  in  order  to  bridge 
gaps between it and other groups. In accordance with 
that  position,  in  the  past  few  weeks  we  have  begun  a 
preliminary series of informal meetings with the other 
negotiating groups to explore possible common ground, 
and we intend to continue on that path. We are among 
the  first  to  encourage  debate,  but  without  artificial 
deadlines. Uniting for Consensus, no doubt like all the 
other  negotiating  groups,  has  no  desire  to  work  in  a 
vacuum or waste any more time.
the  call  for 
With  genuine  political  openness,  Uniting  for 
Consensus  acknowledges 
text-based 
negotiations in the President’s letter dated 10 November. 
We have never closed the door on this method of work; 
in fact, we have often stressed that we should first and 
foremost agree on such a text. As of now, the only valid 
document that has the support of the whole membership 
is the second revision of the compiled text, and we are 
ready to work in that direction.
We  are  convinced  that  any  future  solution  to 
the  Security  Council  reform  process  will  require 
willingness  to  compromise  and  bold  leadership.  That 
approach is at the heart of the Uniting for Consensus 
commitment. In keeping with decision 62/557, we will 
continue  to  engage  with  flexibility  and  in  a  spirit  of 
sincere cooperation in order to achieve a comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council that benefits the entire 
membership.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  add  that  it  is  difficult  to 
understand  why  anyone  would  argue  against  seeking 
8/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
consensus. The United Nations is stronger when all its 
members unite behind a single goal.
Mr. Minah (Sierra Leone): It is an honour for me 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  in 
today’s debate. It presents a welcome opportunity for the 
African Group to take stock of the recently concluded 
10 rounds of intergovernmental negotiations. It is also 
an opportunity for us to set the stage for the next phase, 
which we hope will move the process in a meaningful 
direction aimed at text-based negotiations. 
We  can  all  agree 
that  a  reformed  Security 
Council  must  conform  to  the  principles  of  equitable 
geographical distribution while maintaining a balance 
in  its  relationship  with  the  Assembly  as  envisaged  in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Since 
the  adoption  of  decision  62/557  on 
15 September 2008, the reform process has moved on 
cautiously, but not at a pace to our liking. Delegations 
have  stated  and  repeated  their  positions  and  made 
clear  where  they  stand  on  the  various  key  issues. 
Convergences,  divergences  and  areas  of  possible 
collaboration are now very well known. At this stage, 
we  believe  that  the  exchanges  of  the  10  rounds  have 
made  clear  what  we  need  to  focus  on.  It  is  therefore 
our hope that the next session will focus on a text for 
negotiation that will dictate the future progress of this 
process.
in 
The  African  Group  has  consistently  stated  the 
imperative of comprehensively reforming the Security 
Council  to  address  the  historical  injustice  that  leaves 
Africa  as  the  only  continent  not  represented  in  the 
permanent  category  of  Council  membership  and 
underrepresented 
the  non-permanent  category. 
Africa’s common position, as reflected in the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  Sirte  Declaration,  is  well  known.  We 
have  always  expressed  reservations  about  the  process 
of  negotiations  itself,  because  we  are  engaged  in 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
true 
negotiations. We have nonetheless continued in a spirit 
of good faith and continue to be engaged and commit 
to discussions and collaborations with our partners and 
other delegations.
that  are  not 
The sense in the Assembly over the past 10 rounds 
was that a good majority of delegations are in favour of 
an expansion in both categories of membership. There 
was  considerable  support  for  the  inclusion  of  small 
and medium-sized States and for an enhanced African 
representation in an expanded Security Council. There 
is  no  doubt  our  past  exchanges  have  yielded  some 
progress, but we are in danger of the process becoming 
sterile  and  moribund.  At  this  stage,  the  African 
Group  calls  for  modalities  to  establish  a  timeline  for 
negotiations. We call for all delegations, all groups and 
all those interested in Security Council reform to move 
towards the process of real negotiations. The point we 
make is simply this: only real negotiations can lead to 
real reform.
The African Group reiterates its resolve to continue 
to  work  towards  building  alliances  and  narrowing 
down  differences,  with  particular  focus  on  substance 
and not so much on procedure. We wish to underscore 
and  put  on  record  the  continuing  progressive  and 
encouraging consultations we have had with a number 
of groups, including but not limited to the L.69 Group, 
the  Caribbean  Community  and  the  Pacific  Forum. 
Africa  stands  ready,  willing  and  able  to  continue  to 
engage, collaborate and cooperate to move this process 
forward.  We  look  forward  to  a  negotiation  on  a  text. 
The boundaries of that negotiation have yet to be set, 
and obviously there needs to be preliminary agreement 
on the principles and substance regarding the various 
issues.
We  are  grateful  to  Ambassador  Tanin  for  his 
sterling service and the long hours, weeks, months and 
years he has put into this process, and we welcome the 
appointment of the representative of Jamaica to join us 
in our common cause. As a group, we remain committed 
to  working  together  with  any  group  that  wishes  to 
achieve  our  ultimate  objective  of  a  representative, 
accountable, democratic, truly representative and truly 
transparent Security Council.
The African position has gained and continues to 
gain  support.  We  are  grateful  to  the  L.69  Group  for 
today  explicitly  endorsing  the  African  position.  Our 
principals, our Heads of State, have made it quite clear 
that we must move towards concrete action on Security 
Council  reform.  Having  gone  through  10  rounds  and 
several  informal  and  formal  discussions,  every  group 
is  aware  of  one  another’s  position  and  every  group  is 
aware  of  the  limits  of  each  other’s  position.  The  next 
logical step must be negotiations.
With  a  new  facilitator,  we  believe  there  will  be 
newfound impetus in this process, and we believe that 
if we work together as a whole, this illusory consensus 
that we all seek will actually become a reality. There 
is no greater issue in front of us as an Assembly than 
the  revitalization  of  this  Organization,  in  which  the 
14-62259
9/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
reform  of  the  Security  Council  plays  a  key  part.  The 
African Group remains open to all informal approaches 
and will continue its process of outreach to all groups, 
both those closely aligned with our positions and those 
that have significant concerns regarding our position, 
because  we  believe  our  position,  given  the  historical 
injustice, is legitimate, and we believe that our position 
can survive any process of negotiation.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
honoured to read this statement on behalf of the Group 
of Arab States. At the outset, I would like assure you, 
Sir,  of  the  support  of  our  Group  in  your  leadership 
of  the  Assembly’s  work  at  this  session.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  his  efforts  in 
facilitating 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  also  welcome 
the 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Rattray  to  lead  the  next 
cycle of talks.
the 
increasing 
frequency,  and 
The  international  community  is  faced  with  new 
challenges  with 
this 
strengthens  our  resolve  to  enhance  the  Security 
Council’s  role  and  reform  it  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
be better meet those challenges. That will require the 
Council to be more representative, transparent, neutral 
and credible. The question of Security Council reform 
and  equitable  representation  on  the  Council  are  the 
pillars of the comprehensive reform of the Organization.
More  than  20  years  after  the  first  discussions  on 
enlarging  the  Council  and  improving  its  methods 
of  work,  we  have  seen  a  number  of  initiatives  and 
different  positions  adopted  by  groups  and  Member 
States, including the Arab Group. It is now necessary to 
accelerate the reform, especially as there is consensus 
on  the  need  for  reform  after  the  significant  changes 
since  the  establishment  of  the  Organization  in  1945. 
That does not mean that we should rush, which would 
prevent us from achieving a consensus-based solution. 
Extablishing  a  deadline  could  be  an  obstacle  to  a 
comprehensive solution. In that context, the Arab Group 
affirms that the intergovernmental negotiations should 
take place within the context of the General Assembly, 
as it is the only appropriate venue in which to debate 
this  matter  in  accordance  with  decision  62/557  while 
preserving Member States’ ownership of this process.
The Arab Group also affirms that the starting point 
that  we  select  for  resuming  the  negotiations  should 
include all proposals by Member States. Any changes 
that might have taken place regarding those proposals 
or any linkages between proposals should be taken into 
account with the consent of the country or group that 
initially  made  the  proposal.  Those  are  clear  criteria 
that should guide Ambassador Rattray in his work for 
the resumption of the negotiations, in order to reach a 
consensus among the different countries regarding the 
best way to move forward on this important question.
In this context, the Group wishes to highlight the 
issue  of  the  right  of  veto.  The  unjust  use  of  the  veto 
by the Permanent Five (P5) has in many cases helped 
damage the credibility of the decision-making process 
in  the  Security  Council.  On  some  occasions  it  has 
resulted  in  the  Council  being  unable  to  discharge  its 
responsibilities and to take the necessary measures for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
The use of the veto by the P5 over the past years has 
reflected their anxious concern to use it to defend their 
national interests and those of their allies. Despite the 
limited use of the veto over the past 20 years, compared 
to  previous  eras,  it  still  represents  an  effective  way 
to  immunize  some  Governments  against  being  held 
accountable.  For  example,  it  has  been  used  15  times 
in  a  total  of  27  occasions  during  the  last  20  years  to 
protect illegal practices by the Israeli authorities in the 
occupied Arab territories.
The  procedures  and  working  methods  must  be 
improved to make them more effective and transparent. 
Permanent  rules  should  be  adopted  to  replace  the 
temporary ones that have been in effect for a number of 
years. We should also consider the issue of increasing 
the  number  of  plenary  meetings  and  strengthening 
the role of countries that are on the Council’s agenda. 
Such meetings are a genuine opportunity for States not 
members of the Council to debate Council issues. We 
must also limit the number of closed meetings — they 
should  be  an  exception  and  not  the  rule.  We  should 
publicize  Council  communiqués  and 
resolutions 
and  consult  the  countries  concerned  so  that  they 
can  participate  in  discussions  concerning  them,  in 
accordance with Article 31 of the Charter of the United 
Nations.  We  invite  subsidiary  bodies  of  the  Council 
to  provide  thorough  information  on  their  activities  to 
Member States. The Arab Group also urges the Council 
to strictly limit itself to its mandate under the Charter.
The  position  of  member  States  of  the  League  of 
Arab States is well known. We are asking for permanent 
representation  as  part  of  any  future  enlargement  of 
the Council. We refer to the document that was issued 
by  the  facilitator.  We  would  also  like  to  reiterate  the 
10/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
importance  of  the  negotiations  that  took  place  during 
the tenth round of intergovernmental negotiations. We 
absolutely  must  not  set  temporary  artificial  deadlines 
that could be an obstacle to moving the reform forward. 
We affirm our willingness to constructively contribute 
to the work in the sixty-ninth session in order to achieve 
comprehensive Council reform.
Ms.  Frankinet  (Belgium):  I  have  the  pleasure  to 
speak on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and 
the Kingdom of Belgium. 
I thank you, Mr. President, for convening this annual 
debate on Security Council reform. I thank you also for 
your  letter  of  10  November,  in  which  you  announced 
the appointment of Ambassador Courtenay Rattray as 
the new Chair of the United Nations intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  wish 
Ambassador  Rattray  all  the  best  in  his  new  position, 
and we thank him for taking up this challenge. We have 
full  confidence  in  his  ability  to  successfully  lead  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
The  Netherlands  and  Belgium  would  also  like  to 
pay special tribute to our previous Chair, Ambassador 
Tanin of Afghanistan, who skilfully and for many years 
steered the work of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
We thank Ambassador Tanin and his entire team for all 
the hard work of the past years. It is fair to say that we did 
a lot of fruitful and important work during the previous 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  started  with  the 
initiative of a former Assembly President, Ambassador 
John Ashe, to create an advisory group of the President 
of the General Assembly on Security Council reform. 
That  advisory  group  produced  a  non-paper,  which,  in 
our view, offers a very useful tool for our discussions 
and which has been used as such by many delegations.
Under the leadership of Ambassador Tanin we also 
held  debates  on  each  of  the  five  clusters  of  Security 
Council reform and a sixth one on cross-cutting issues. 
Last  summer,  at  the  request  of  the  former  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Ambassador  Tanin  shared 
with  us  his  personal  assessment  of  our  work,  and  he 
added thought-provoking recommendations on the way 
forward.
For  years  now,  we  have  scrutinized  Security 
Council reform from all possible angles. The positions 
are well known. It is clear where opinions diverge, but 
it is even clearer where large consensuses can be found. 
No one is waiting for another year of repetitive debates 
with only slight variations. This year, perhaps more than 
ever  before,  business  as  usual  is  no  longer  an  option. 
So let us build on the results of last year and take the 
process one step further. We all know how to do this. 
It  has  been  said  many  times  before,  and  Ambassador 
Tanin mentioned it in his recommendations. 
Just as in any other process at the General Assembly, 
we need to engage in a genuine give and take. We need 
to start real negotiations. And we need to do it on the 
basis of a text — a text that will be a starting point, not 
a foregone conclusion, for text-based negotiations will 
allow  us  ultimately  to  converge  rather  than  diverge, 
regardless of what text is used as a basis. However, we 
cannot make text-based negotiations conditional upon 
a  pre-existing  consensus  on  the  text  to  be  used.  That 
would  be  equivalent  to  calling  for  the  solution  to  be 
agreed before we actually begin to address the problem.
We  count  on  your  determination  and  guidance, 
Mr. President, to create a new momentum, because the 
ultimate  goal  of  our  endeavour  remains  as  important 
as  ever:  a  more  effective,  transparent,  accountable 
and  representative  Security  Council  that  reflects  the 
geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  and 
contributes  to  a  more  credible  United  Nations  and 
a  reinforced  international  system.  As  always,  the 
Netherlands and Belgium stand ready to fully support 
both you and the Chair of our working group.
Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
The question of Security Council reform is one of the 
most  important  issues  on  the  General  Assembly’s 
agenda,  as  the  Council  is  the  body  that,  according  to 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  bears  the  primary 
responsibility for maintaining international peace and 
security. The final result of the Security Council reform 
process will largely depend on the effectiveness of the 
Assembly’s  efforts  and  those  of  the  United  Nations 
as  a  whole,  as  well  as  on  the  international  security 
architecture.
We  congratulate  the  Ambassador  of  Jamaica, 
Mr.  Rattray,  on  his  appointment  as  facilitator  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  hope  that  his 
work  in  this  difficult  area  will  help  to  maintain  a 
constructive atmosphere for the negotiations so that a 
mutually acceptable solution can be reached. We thank 
the  Ambassador  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Tanin,  for  the 
effective work he carried out for the past five years.
As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
the  Russian  Federation  notes  the  need  to  make  that 
body  more  representative.  However,  efforts  in  that 
14-62259
11/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
regard must not impact the Council’s ability to promptly 
and  effectively  respond  to  emerging  challenges.  This 
is  especially  crucial  today  as  we  are  witnessing  a 
proliferation  of  hot  spots  of  conflict  throughout  the 
world. In this context, we call for maintaining a compact 
Security  Council  membership.  Its  optimal  number 
should not exceed a little more than 20 members. We 
reject any idea that would infringe on the prerogatives 
of the current permanent Council members, including 
the veto. We recall that the veto is an important factor 
in  encouraging  Council  members  to  seek  generally 
acceptable and balanced solutions. Trying to eliminate 
the veto would be an historical and political mistake.
The  discussion  on  how  to  reform  the  Security 
Council is difficult and has gone on for quite a while. 
Ten  rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  have 
been  held.  Member  States  have  made  some  progress 
on the reform track, but a comprehensive solution that 
would  satisfy  the  majority  is  still  not  on  the  horizon. 
We  fully  support  the  opinion,  heard  often  from  this 
rostrum,  that  the  Security  Council  reform  process 
must be owned by all Member States without exception 
and,  with  its  signature  wording,  that  it  must  have  the 
broadest  possible  support  of  the  membership.  If  we 
cannot reach a consensus on this issue, it is politically 
essential to ensure the support of a much larger number 
of Member States than the legally required two-thirds 
majority vote of the General Assembly.
We  are  convinced  that  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform  cannot  be  resolved  by  exclusively 
mathematical  means,  using  various  voting  models 
to  yield  the  minimum  required  number  of  votes.  A 
result  achieved  this  way  would  be  unlikely  to  add  to 
the  Security  Council’s  authority  and  effectiveness, 
and  it  would  certainly  not  help  strengthen  our  global 
Organization — quite the contrary.
At  the  same  time,  we  are  ready  to  consider  any 
reasonable option to enlarge the Council membership, 
including  the  so-called  intermediate  option,  that  is, 
a  compromise  solution,  as  long  as  it  is  based  on  the 
broadest  possible  consensus  in  the  United  Nations. 
However, the status of the negotiations does not allow 
us to say that we are closer to a universal formula for 
Security Council reform that would receive the broadest 
possible support. Approaches still diverge substantially, 
sometimes  diametrically.  In  such  circumstances,  we 
do not see an alternative to continuing, at the current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  patient  work  of 
bringing positions together.
We  hope  that  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly and the facilitator of the negotiations 
will be directed specifically at lending as much support 
to  the  negotiations  as  possible,  on  the  understanding 
that ownership in this process belongs to the Member 
States. This painstaking work should be conducted in 
a peaceful, transparent and inclusive manner, without 
arbitrary timelines. We must all be very mindful that 
on this matter there is no room for artificial or symbolic 
deadlines and dates or attempts to resolve this complex 
problem with the stroke of the pen.
Let us not forget the most important thing — progress 
on  Security  Council  reform  depends  only  on  the 
political will of Member States and their willingness to 
reach a reasonable compromise. We call on all States to 
follow this fundamental principle.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  As  we  approach 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
system of international peace and security created by the 
Charter is still very much at the heart of the international 
order. When crises erupt  — in Syria, Ukraine, the Central 
African  Republic  or  elsewhere  —  the  international 
community looks to the Security Council for leadership 
and guidance. The powers vested in the Council under 
the Charter are unique, leading to great expectations. 
All too often, those expectations are not fulfilled. By 
failing  to  take  a  decisive  role  in  conflicts,  such  as  in 
Syria and Ukraine, the Council risks losing its central 
role and creating the impression that it can effectively 
address crises only where permanent members do not 
feel they have a national stake in the matter.
The 2005 World Summit recognized the necessity of 
Security Council reform and supported “early reform” 
of the Council, with leaders committing themselves to 
continuing their efforts to achieve a decision to this end. 
We have not come any closer to reforming the Security 
Council since then. This is not for want of proposals, 
but for want of genuine engagement. With so much at 
stake and with no understanding of a timeline and no 
clear process in place, we all find it easier to repeat our 
positions  than  to  signal  concessions  that  would  allow 
moving the process forward.
In terms of expanding the Council, my delegation 
stands by a model that offers a middle ground between 
the  two  most  extreme  positions.  That  model,  which 
we  presented  as  a  full-fledged  proposal  two  years 
ago,  would  add  a  category  of  long-term  elected  seats 
to  the  Council,  with  terms  of  eight  or  ten  years,  for 
example.  States  in  the  new  category  of  seats  would 
12/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
be  allowed  to  stand  for  immediate  re-election.  States 
that unsuccessfully sought election for the longer-term 
seats would be barred from standing for election for the 
existing two-year seats for the duration of what would 
have been their term of office. A mandatory review of 
the mechanism would take place after two terms in the 
new long-term seats.
This is an intermediate approach in the sense that 
it  seeks  to  bridge  the  gap  between  those  who  favour 
expansion in the two existing categories and those who 
want  expansion  in  the  non-permanent  category  only. 
But it is not meant to be a transition to a particular final 
outcome. Much rather, it is a viable model in its own 
right, albeit with the possibility of further change as part 
of a review after 20 years or so. We remain convinced 
that  such  an  approach  is  the  most  viable  option  for 
expansion, both as far as acceptance in the Assembly 
and  in  the  necessary  ratification  process.  Moreover, 
we are deeply sceptical that the addition of more veto-
wielding  permanent  members  would  truly  make  the 
Security  Council  a  more  effective  institution,  and  we 
are of the view that many others share that scepticism.
Anyone unfortunate enough to sit through sessions 
of the intergovernmental negotiations will hear much of 
the desirability of a comprehensive solution and why we 
must  avoid  a  piecemeal  approach.  We  certainly  agree 
that  amending  the  Charter  is  an  enormous  task  and 
that we have to produce a package of amendments that 
covers all aspects of Council reform. It is precisely these 
amendments that the intergovernmental negotiations are 
supposed to negotiate. But we do not agree to use this as 
a pretext to not call on the Council to immediately take 
what measures it can take to become more transparent, 
more  accountable  and  more  effective.  The  practice  of 
the Council is evolving and it does make adjustments to 
the new challenges it faces, although many of us would 
like  to  see  much  more  of  that.  Using  enlargement,  or 
absence thereof, as a pretext to not promote this type of 
improvements is to our mind clearly counterproductive.
We  are  thinking  in  particular  of  the  efforts  to 
establish  a  code  of  conduct  that  would  limit  the  use 
of  the  veto  in  situations  involving  atrocity  crimes,  a 
proposal we wholeheartedly support. Such an agreement 
requires no Charter amendment, nor indeed any action 
per  se  by  the  General  Assembly  at  all.  Certainly  the 
agreement  on  such  a  code  of  conduct  does  not  have 
to wait until we agree on how to expand the Security 
Council.  The  same  can  be  said  for  issues  related  to 
the working methods more generally. Decision 62/557, 
which  created  the  mandate  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, is meant to pertain to the working methods 
of an expanded Security Council and nothing else. It is 
not a roadblock to practical measures that would make 
the Council a more effective organ today.
As  we  ponder  how  to  move  the  Council  reform 
forward, we cannot see the utility of simply going through 
the  motions  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  as 
we have for the past five years. Last year’s report of the 
advisory group to the then President John Ashe gives us 
a solid summary of all of the negotiating positions. The 
time has come to either try something new or to put the 
intergovernmental negotiations to rest.
We thank Ambassador Tanin for his tireless efforts 
for  the  past  five  years,  and  we  welcome  Ambassador 
Rattray  and  wish  him  every  success  in  his  difficult 
task.  We  hope  that  he  will  take  the  leadership  role 
traditionally accorded to those who lead negotiations on 
behalf of the President of the General Assembly. That is 
how every other membership-driven negotiation in this 
building works, and we do not see why this one should 
be any different. Before we begin the intergovernmental 
negotiations, we would also like to see an assessment 
from the Chair as to the results he feels are attainable in 
the current session of the Assembly. That would give us 
a yardstick whereby to measure our progress.
We  stand  ready  to  work  with  you,  Mr.  President, 
and the Chair of the United Nations intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  to  make 
meaningful progress in this session.
Ms. Jones (United States of America): The United 
States  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  annual  plenary 
debate  on  the  important  topic  of  Security  Council 
reform.
Today’s  debate  occurs  as  we  look  ahead  to  the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations next year. 
The United Nations is a very different place, as is the 
world. Since its inception, the Organization has grown 
from  51  Members  to  193  Members.  The  challenges 
facing  us  are  more  complex  and  more  pressing 
than  ever  —  from  addressing  the  Ebola  outbreak  to 
combating the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant to 
making sure peacekeeping operations in crisis hot spots 
are successful. To face these issues, we need a Security 
Council  that  represents  today’s  realities,  one  that  is 
fully capable of carrying out its mandate.
The landmark year of 2015 is a compelling moment 
for  the  membership  to  consider  appropriate  ways  to 
14-62259
13/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
achieve successful Council reform. The United States  
continues  to  believe  that  it  is  critical  that  any  reform 
of the Council enjoys the broadest possible consensus 
among Member States. To that end, we need to follow 
a  serious,  deliberate  path  forward.  The  United  States 
is  committed  to  this  process  and  remains  open  to 
modest  Council  expansion  in  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent categories. Any consideration of which 
countries  merit  future  permanent  membership  should 
take  into  account  their  ability  and  willingness  to 
contribute to the maintenance of international peace and 
security and to the other purposes of the United Nations, 
and  their  ability  to  exercise  the  heavy  responsibility 
that comes with Security Council membership.
My  delegation  congratulates  Ambassador  Rattray 
on  his  appointment  as  Chair  of  the  United  Nations 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. My delegation also thanks Ambassador Tanin 
for his leadership of the intergovernmental negotiations 
process  for  the  past  five  years.  We  believe  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
the  most 
appropriate forum for continued discussions of Security 
Council reform.
remain 
Finally, we encourage all to approach the upcoming 
sessions on Security Council reform constructively. We 
know many Member States feel that the issue has been 
studied for too long without action. But we hope that, 
by  working  together,  we  can  consider  a  way  forward 
that  is  agreeable  to  the  broadest  possible  majority  of 
United Nations members, an arrangement that can best 
promote  the  Council’s  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, in line 
with the ideals that were central to the founders of the 
United Nations.
Mr. Mukerji (India): I congratulate you, Mr. President, 
on  your  effective  and  impressive  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session since you 
took office in September this year. You have the fullest 
support  of  my  delegation  in  assisting  you  in  all  your 
endeavours in this session of the General Assembly.
Allow me to first align myself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Saint Lucia on behalf 
of  the  L.69  Group,  as  well  as  with  that  delivered  by 
representative  of  Brazil  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Four (G4). I would also like to convey my delegation’s 
fullest  endorsement  of  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Guyana  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM).
I  would  like  to  submit  the  following  for  our 
consideration today. 
the  Chair  of 
First,  we  warmly  welcome 
the  appointment 
of  Ambassador  Courtney  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  as 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  have  been  impressed  by  the  constructive 
manner  in  which  Ambassador  Rattray  has  conducted 
the  proceedings  of  the  First  Committee,  and  we 
are  confident  that  his  appointment  bodes  well  for 
this  intergovernmental  negotiation.  We  thank  the 
Ambassador  of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Tanin,  for 
having skilfully guided our process so far.
We  now  look  to  you,  Sir,  as  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  to  truly  empower  our  Chairman 
by  giving  him,  under  your  authority,  a  text  on  the 
basis of which all of us can begin to engage in actual 
negotiations.  This  will  provide  a  refreshing  contrast 
to  all  previous  rounds  of  negotiations  so  far  in  this 
process.  We  must  actually  be  the  only  forum  in  the 
United Nations to be negotiating without a negotiating 
text on the table before us. As my delegation has stated 
so many times in the past, without a negotiation text, it 
is impossible for any us to demonstrate our commitment 
to  multilateralism  and  our  flexibility  in  reaching 
an  outcome  to  be  reported  to  our  Heads  of  State  and 
Government in September next year.
As  in  all  other  negotiating  processes  under  way 
in 
intergovernmental 
the  General  Assembly,  our 
negotiation should not be perceived to be biased against 
any  individual  country  or  group  of  countries  just 
because a text is on the table. However, if there is no 
text on the table, then we would surely have just cause 
to  detect  a  bias  against  those  of  us  who  are  seriously 
engaged  in  implementing  the  explicit  mandate  for 
early reform of the Security Council given to us by our 
leaders in 2005.
Secondly,  my  delegation  is  of  the  firm  view 
that  the  wish  of  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States 
participating in the intergovernmental negotiation is to 
recommend  expansion  in  both  categories,  permanent 
and non-permanent, of the reformed Security Council. 
That includes several Member States that do not belong 
to  any  groupings,  as  well  as  large  and  pro-reform 
groupings such as the L.69 Group; the Committee of 10, 
which represents the Ezulwini Consensus of the Africa 
Group; CARICOM; small island developing States; the 
14/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
Group of Four and, most recently, the Group of Arab 
States with its demand for a permanent seat.
Our  assessment  is  based  on  the  statements  made 
by those Member States in both our intergovernmental 
negotiation  process  so  far  and  the  more  than  100 
statements  made  by  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
during the recent high-level segments of the sixty-ninth 
session,  held  in  September  and  October.  The  latter  is 
a recorded fact and must not be ignored or questioned 
while considering the assertion just made by us.
Thirdly,  we  believe  that  to  insist  that  no  forward 
movement can take place in our process until we have 
complete consensus on any text at the very beginning 
of  the  process  is  not  in  keeping  with  the  unanimous 
consensus for early reform of the Council mandated by 
our leaders in paragraph 153 of the 2005 World Summit 
outcome  document  (resolution  60/1).  We  therefore 
request that once the negotiation text authorized by you, 
Mr. President, is placed before us by our new Chair, we 
engage  in  the  give  and  take  of  actual  negotiations  to 
define what early reform of the Council actually means 
for the vast majority of us in the Assembly. It would be 
a blot on the collective integrity of the Organization if 
we  were  to  turn  our  backs  on  this  subject  and  ignore 
it completely when our leaders meet next year for the 
historic  seventieth-anniversary  summit  of  the  United 
Nations.
Finally, my delegation would like to once again put 
this issue in the context in which the Security Council 
is actually required to function. The Council — which 
has  the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  under  the  Charter 
and  which  acts  under  Articles  24,  paragraph  1,  and 
Article  25  on  behalf  of  all  of  us  Member  States  –  is 
today a seriously impaired organ. The litany of crises 
dotting the international landscape involving the lives 
of  millions  of  people  that  the  Council  does  not  have 
the will or the resources to address demonstrates that 
vividly.  Even  in  the  area  of  its  core  competence,  the 
Council is unable to act with credibility, essentially due 
to its unrepresentative nature.
For  the  Council  to  become  more  effective,  early 
reforms,  as  collectively  envisioned  by  our  leaders  10 
years  ago,  are  an  urgent  necessity.  Such  reforms,  if 
implemented  properly,  will  restore  to  the  Council 
its  credibility,  enable  it  to  share  the  responsibility  of 
its  functions  with  fresh  and  needed  resources,  both 
financial and intellectual, and, most importantly, restore 
the  provisions  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter,  which 
requires recourse to peaceful, non-violent means, based 
on  the  rule  of  law,  to  settle  disputes  as  the  preferred 
means to maintain international peace and security.
As  the  Prime  Minister  of  India  stated  from  this 
very rostrum on 27 September:
“It  is  important  that  we  improve  the  Security 
it  more  democratic  and 
Council  by  making 
participative. Institutions that reflect the imperatives 
of  the  twentieth  century  will  not  be  effective  in 
the  twenty-first  century.  They  face  the  risk  of 
irrelevance” (A/69/PV.15, p. 17).
He also said that we would face the risk of continuing 
turbulence with no one capable of addressing it, adding 
that we should fulfil our promise to reform the Security 
Council by 2015.
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant  (United  Kingdom):  The 
United  Kingdom  is  grateful  for  this  opportunity  to 
reaffirm publicly our strong commitment to reforming 
the Security Council.
The  United  Kingdom  warmly  welcomes 
the 
appointment of Ambassador Courtenay Rattray as the 
new Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. I pay 
tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
who worked tirelessly to establish a common position 
from which to move forward together. We thank him for 
his concerted efforts, which have provided a foundation 
for the progress we must all work to achieve. We look 
forward  to  working  closely  and  productively  with 
Ambassador Rattray and hope that his appointment will 
invigorate  the  process  and  lead  it  towards  an  agreed 
outcome.
The United Kingdom’s position on Security Council 
reform has not changed. The United Kingdom supports 
new  permanent  seats  for  Brazil,  Germany,  India  and 
Japan,  alongside  permanent  African  representation. 
We  also  support  an  expansion  in  the  number  of 
non-permanent seats. 
As others have said, next year we will celebrate the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
tenth anniversary of the Summit Outcome. Let us mark 
those occasions with genuine action on reform.
Disagreement  around  whether  or  not  to  extend 
the  veto  right  has  proved  one  of  the  key  obstacles  to 
making  any  progress  on  Security  Council  reform.  A 
priority for all of us must be to ensure that any reform 
does  not  reduce  the  Council’s  capacity  to  effectively 
deal with threats to international peace and security. In 
14-62259
15/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
that context, the United Kingdom does not support the 
extension  of  veto  rights  to  new  permanent  members. 
We note with interest the French initiative for voluntary 
Permanent Five veto restraint and welcome the valuable 
debate  it  has  sparked.  We  have  been  appalled  by  the 
cynical  way  in  which  the  veto  has  been  used  since 
2011 to enable the perpetuation of mass atrocities and 
war crimes by the Syrian regime. We cannot envisage 
circumstances  in  which  the  United  Kingdom  would 
use its veto to block an appropriate response to a mass 
atrocity or other major crisis. But to be meaningful, this 
initiative would, of course, require the united support 
of all the permanent members of the Council.
finish  by 
reaffirming 
It is important that arguments on contentious issues 
such as the veto be heard, but we also need to be careful 
to ensure that the range of different and opposing views 
around the veto do not distract us from the important 
task  of  broadening  the  membership  of  the  Council  to 
ensure that it is a better reflection of the modern world.
the  United 
Kingdom’s  commitment  to  improving  the  Security 
Council’s  working  methods.  Improving  the  Council’s 
effectiveness must go hand in hand with any discussion 
on  increasing  its  size.  The  United  Kingdom  works 
hard to ensure that the Council is continually looking 
at  new  ways  to  improve  its  efficiency,  effectiveness 
and 
the  use  of 
technological advancements. We are always open to new 
practical  suggestions  for  improvement  and  welcome 
the  constructive  spirit  in  which  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  Group  has  engaged  in 
discussions on the Council’s working methods.
transparency, 
Let  me 
including 
through 
Ms.  Chan  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Costa 
Rica  welcomes  the  convening  of  this  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.
My  delegation  welcomes  also  the  appointment 
of  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  as  the  new  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also  express 
our  deep  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, for his work.
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  continuing  to 
work  with  members  most  seriously  in  this  process, 
which should be guided by the fundamental principles 
governing  the  Organization,  and  promoting  first  and 
foremost the strengthening of multilateralism.
providing 
negotiations, 
Costa  Rica  has  participated  in  every  round  of 
intergovernmental 
clear 
arguments  and  specific  proposals  concerning  the 
reasons underlying its principled position. Our objective 
has  been  this:  to  achieve  an  in-depth,  comprehensive 
and inclusive reform of the Security Council, one that 
is anchored in the principle of the sovereign equality of 
States and the criteria of legitimacy, representativeness, 
effectiveness and transparency.
Democratic reform can be achieved only through a 
commitment to compromise and through a constructive 
and  flexible  spirit  among  Member  States.  It  is  for 
that  reason  that  Costa  Rica  shares  the  concerns  and 
suggestions expressed by the representative of Italy on 
behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group.
Throughout  the  10  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations, Costa Rica has explained why it is firmly 
opposed to the creation of new permanent seats and any 
extension  of  the  veto  or  any  other  prerogative  in  the 
Security  Council.  Costa  Rica  believes  that  no  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  can  be  effective,  legitimate 
or  democratic  if  it  consists  merely  in  extending  the 
privileges  that  a  few  currently  enjoy  and  adding 
permanent seats for others.
My  country  has  therefore  argued  that  careful 
expansion of the non-permanent membership category, 
with the option of some keeping their the seat for more 
than two consecutive years, is the only way of achieving 
a  more  representative  and  legitimate  body  —  a  body 
in  which  can  be  heard  the  revitalizing  voices  and 
worldviews of Africa, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin 
America and the Caribbean, whose readiness to play an 
active role in the context of the items currently before 
the  Security  Council  will  also  contribute  to  ensuring 
greater  accountability  on  the  part  of  non-permanent 
members. 
This  geometry  of 
transformed  representation 
will  also  make  it  possible  to  significantly  increase 
the  chances  for  election  to  the  Council,  which  would 
benefit  above  all  smaller  countries  such  as  my  own, 
which  constitute  a  majority  of  the  Organization’s 
Members. The goal is to increase the real possibilities 
for the entire membership, not to limit them further.
A profound improvement in working methods will 
also  serve  to  consolidate  those  real  possibilities.  We 
know  that  in  a  larger  Council  should  be  clearer  and 
more predictible, systematic and transparent.
16/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
Costa Rica is concerned that the document presented 
by the advisory group is being put forth as a tool to help 
structure the intergovernmental negotiations, when in 
effect it is a summary of some but not all the proposals 
for  the  negotiation  process.  My  country  believes  that 
the advisory group document cannot and should not be 
the basis for guiding our work. The intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  the  texts  that  we  have  worked  on 
together  as  a  body  of  193  countries  enjoy  precedence 
and  absolute  legitimacy  over  any  other  process  or 
parallel  text.  The  only  document  that  can  claim  the 
support of the entire membership is the second revised 
document.
The  solution  does  not  lie  in  presenting  partial 
proposals  for  reform  outside  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations process. That will only further divide the 
membership and delay the possibility of comprehensive 
Security Council reform. Let us comply with the content 
of decision 62/557 and, in good faith and in an open and 
transparent manner, negotiate a comprehensive reform 
of  the  Council  that  takes  into  account  the  five  main 
themes  contained  in  the  proposals  of  Member  States, 
in  order  to  arrive  at  the  broadest  possible  political 
agreement.
Costa  Rica  reiterates  its  readiness  to  participate 
in any and all consultations that the presidency deems 
necessary, and to collaborate in a constructive, actively 
engaged spirit in the design of a process that allows us 
to move forward at this defining moment for the future 
of  the  Organization  —  a  process  that  should  lead  to 
Security Council reform for all, not only for a few.
Mr.  Oh  Joon  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  would  like 
to  express  my  gratitude  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
convening this timely meeting. Security Council reform 
has great importance for the Council’s functioning and 
for the future of the United Nations. We appreciate your 
initiative to work for common ground on that agenda, in 
close consultation with the United Nations membership.
The Republic of Korea supports the reform of the 
Security  Council  as  an  important  and  urgent  matter. 
The  Council  must  be  reformed  in  accordance  with 
the  changing  geopolitical  realities  of  the  world  today. 
At  the  same  time,  it  is  critical  to  bring  about  a  more 
representative,  accountable,  democratic  and  efficient 
Security  Council.  The  only  plausible  way  to  achieve 
that  is  by  holding  periodic  elections.  An  expansion 
of  the  number  of  elected  members  would  bring  a 
better  balance  to  the  Council,  thereby  improving  its 
work.  Acountability  through  elections  is  fundamental 
to  our  Governments,  parliaments  and  multilateral 
organizations;  the  same  principle  shoud  apply  to 
the  Security  Council.  A  single  election  that  allows 
a  handful  of  countries  to  remain  on  the  Council 
indefinitely runs counter to the principles of democracy 
and accountability. More importantly, it will not enable 
the  Council  to  better  reflect  changing  international 
political realities in order to effectively address global 
challenges.
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  to  which  the 
Republic  of  Korea  belongs,  has  shown  flexibility  in 
its  proposals  for  Security  Council  reform.  We  would 
like  to  see  progress  in  the  negotiations.  The  group’s 
suggestion of longer-term re-electable seats could serve 
as  a  viable  compromise  solution.  We  look  forward  to 
seeing  other  negotiating  groups  take  a  constructive 
approach to move the agenda forward. With regard to 
the matter of procedure, one lesson we can draw from 
previous negotiations is that any reform formula must 
enjoy the widest possible support of Member States. We 
need to strive for consensus, as stipulated in decision 
62/557, to address that critical matter.
Security  Council  reform  must  also  be  addressed 
in a comprehensive manner encompassing all five key 
areas. The Republic of Korea looks forward to making 
progress in the negotiations on reforming the Council 
under  your  leadership,  Mr.  President,  as  well  as  that 
of Ambassador Courtney Rattray, the newly appointed 
facilitor  of  the  intergovernmental  negotations,  whom 
we  asssure  of  our  full  cooperation.  We  also  thank 
Ambassador Tanin, the first faciitator, for his untiring 
efforts  to  move  the  negotiations  forward.  We  will 
continue to work closely with other Member States on 
this important task.
Mr.  Yoshikawa  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
thanking you, Mr. President, for your leadership since 
you  assumed  the  post  of  President  in  September,  in 
steering  the  important  agenda  items  before  us,  which 
include the reform of the Security Council.
Allow  me  to  associate  myself  fully  with  the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  Ambassador  Antonio 
de  Aguiar  Patriota  of  Brazil  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  Four  (G4).  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
Ambassador  Courtney  Rattray  of  Jamaica  as  the 
new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Ambassador  Rattray  has  already  shown  his  superb 
ability  to  build  consensus  as  Chair  of  the  First 
Committee.  I  extend  full  support  and  cooperation  to 
the new Chair.
14-62259
17/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
My special gratitude goes to the former President of 
the General Assembly, Ambassador John Ashe, and to 
the former Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassador Zahir Tahin of Afghanistan. In particular, 
Ambassador Tanin worked tirelessly as chair over the 
past six years to move the process forward. The third 
revised document, issued in 2011, and his assesssment 
of the intergovernmental negotiations process issued in 
July are among his important legacies.
As pointed out by many speakers before me, with 
the  approach  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
foundation  of  the  United  Nations  we  are  facing  an 
enormous opportunity. Next September will also mark 
50 years since the Security Council was reformed for 
the first and only time. All of us here remember the call 
from  our  leaders  at  the  2005  World  Summit  for  early 
reform of the Security Council. I believe that now is the 
time to move forward to fulfil the mandate given by our 
leaders at that Summit.
We  are  all  aware  that  50  years  ago,  when  the 
Council was expanded, the membership of the United 
Nations was 117 countries. Today, we are 193. Despite 
the  addition  of  76  countries,  the  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  remains  the  same.  The  Council 
should  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-
first  century  by  expanding  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  membership.  I  strongly  believe  that 
more  countries,  most  notably  those  of  Africa  and  the 
Asia-Pacific, should be on the Council.
I attach great importance to the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  They  provide  the  only  forum  where  all 
Member  countries  can  negotiate  for  their  shared  goal 
of  Security  Council  reform.  The  non-paper  of  the 
advisory group of former President John Ashe, as well 
as  the  former  Chair’s  assessment,  generated  postive 
momentum for the negotiations. Despite all the efforts 
made so far, however, we must admit that discussions 
are still at a stalemate. We cannot afford for business 
as  usual  to  continue  in  2015.  Let  us  not  make  our 
negotiations an endless exercise.
In  order  to  launch  real  negotiations  under  the 
leadership of the President and the new Chair, we must 
work on the basis of a negotiation text. I was pleased, 
Sir, that your letter of 10 November encouraged Member 
States to move the process to text-based negotiations. In 
September here in New York, the G-4 Foreign Ministers 
decided  to  reach  out  to  Member  States  to  discuss 
models for an enlarged Security Council. I believe that 
that  outreach  will  generate  positive  momentum  for 
producing a negotiating text and that it will revitalize 
discussion of the intergovernmental negotiations.
Before closing, let me refer to the question of the 
veto, which is one of the most difficult issues to address 
when discussing Security Council reform. We have seen 
an initiative proposed by France to refrain from using 
the  veto  in  situations  of  mass  atrocities.  We  welcome 
the French proposal. Its significance lies in the fact that 
a  permanent  member  of  the  Council  made  a  proposal 
to limit the use of veto power. Japan hopes that other 
permanent members will join the French initiative.
To  conclude,  allow  me  to  reiterate  Japan’s  firm 
support  for  you,  Sir.  Japan  is  resolved  to  continue 
cooperating with you on this crucial issue at this critical 
moment in time.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke 
in  Chinese): 
The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  thank  you,  Sir, 
for  convening  today’s  meeting.  We  welcome  your 
appointment  of 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  Ambassador  Rattray,  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan for his efforts 
over the past five years as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  support  Ambassador  Rattray 
in 
his  efforts  to  carry  out  work  in  accordance  with  his 
mandate and in a constructive manner by adhering to 
a position of impartiality, objectivity and fairness, and 
to play a bridging role among members of the General 
Assembly and to better serve the Member States.
the 
important 
Recent  years  have  witnessed  fundamental  and 
significant  changes  in  international  situations  and  an 
increase in global threats and challenges to humankind. 
Member States are placing greater expectations on the 
Security  Council.  The  Security  Council  is  entrusted 
with 
resonsibiity  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  is  fulfilling  that 
responsibility  on  behalf  of  all  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. The Council’s authority and efficiency 
are  intrinsically  linked  to  the  193  Member  States. 
Reasonable and necessary Council reform will help it 
to better fulfil the sacred responsiblities entrusted to it 
by the Charter of the United Nations and to better serve 
humankind’s cause of peace and development.
China  has  always  actively  supported  Security 
Council  reform  and  believes  that  it  should  start  with 
and  be  based  on  giving  priority  to  increasing  the 
representation  and  voice  of  developing  countries, 
18/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
especially those of Africa. At the same time, it should 
allow more countries, especially the small and medium-
sized countries that make up the majority of the United 
Nations  membership,  to  have  greater  opportunities  to 
serve  the  Council,  participate  in  its  decision-making 
and  play  a  greater  role  in  effectively  upholding  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter and the guiding 
principles that govern international relations.
only scenario that can ensure the correct direction of the 
reform process and guarantee its healthy development. 
The arbitrary reduction of the options for negotiations 
and  a  rush  into  text-based  negotiations  without  the 
consensus  of  Member  States  would  only  exacerbate 
the division and discord and make the reform process 
more difficult. That is contrary to the expectations of 
Member States.
Reform  of  the  Council  involves  the  future  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  immediate  interests  of  all  the 
Member  States.  Promoting  progress  in  the  reform 
process  will  require  Member  States  to  undertake 
extensive consultations and accommodate the interests 
and needs of all parties, especially those of the small 
and  medium-sized  countries,  so  as  to  achieve  the 
broadest possible consensus.
China  believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  abide  by  a 
number of key principles. 
First  is  the  principle  of  unity.  The  General 
Assembly is playing a transitional role at this session by 
undertaking the historical mission and unique task of 
summarizing the experience of the past and exploring 
new  ways  and  means  to  move  ahead  into  the  future. 
Unity should be the key word at this session. Reform of 
the United Nations in all areas, including reform of the 
Security Council, cannot make headway amid disputes, 
accusations or serious confrontation. All Member States 
should  focus  on  unity  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
the  authority  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council  and 
increasing  the  representation  of  developing  countries  
therein. It is important to ensure that reform is a process 
to iron out differences and strengthen unity. Any unfair 
treatment  of  the  position  of  Member  States,  artificial 
deadlines for reform or, worse, the forceful imposition 
of immature reform formulas will only exacerbate the 
disputes and division among the Member States, deflect 
reform  from  its  correct  direction  and  undermine  the 
common  interests  of  all  Member  States  and  the  long-
term interests of the United Nations.
The  second  principle  is  that  of  ownership  of  the 
Member States. Reform of the Council touches on the 
direct  interests  of  each  and  every  Member  State,  and 
the  process  shoud  and  must  be  owned  and  guided  by 
them. Intergovernmental negotiations should be carried 
out only on the basis of the positions and proposals of 
Member States, should treat the proposals of all sides 
equally, and accommodate their interests and concerns 
in pursuit of the broadest possible consensus. That is the 
Third is the principle of democratic consultations. 
There is still a lack of consensus among Member States 
on  such  matters  as  the  basic  concept  of  reform.  With 
respect to either the categories of increased membership 
or  the  scope  of  the  Council,  all  Member  States  have 
their own proposals, and positions and there is a serious 
divergence of views. However, the more divergent the 
views,  the  more  necessary  it  is  for  Member  States  to 
carry  out  patient  consultations  aimed  at  consensus. 
We should turn differences of opinion into the driving 
force and put our heads together as we seek consensus 
and try to reach a package deal on the questions related 
to reform.
solution 
reached 
through 
Only  a 
in-depth 
consultations among all Member States and supported 
by the majority will be acceptable to the United Nations 
membership. Only a decision jointly made by Member 
States  will  be  able  to  stand  the  test  of  time.  Reform 
of  the  Security  Council  is  a  thorny  and  tough  issue 
of  United  Nations  reform  in  all  fields.  The  key  to 
achieving progress in reform is in the hands of Member 
States.  Only  when  they  rise  above  their  differences, 
make  compromises  and  accommodate  each  other’s 
concerns will it be possible for reform to move ahead 
on the correct track.
China  hopes  that  Member  States  will  continue  at 
this session to abide by decision 62/557 and conduct the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  an  open,  inclusive 
and  transparent  manner.  China  will  continue  to  work 
together  with  other  countries  to  arrive  at  a  reform 
formula that will enjoy the widest possible consensus 
among  Member  States  and  conform  to  the  long-term 
interests  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  common 
interests of its Members.
Mr. Sinhaseni (Thailand): Next year will mark the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  World  Summit,  at  which  our 
leaders called for early reform of the Security Council. 
It  will  also  mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  entry 
into force, on 31 August 1965, of the amendment to the 
Charter of the United Nations that led to the expansion 
14-62259
19/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
of the Security Council from 11 to 15, with an increase 
in  non-permanent  members  from  6  to  10.  As  we  all 
know,  that  amendment  was  made  in  response  to  an 
increase in the United Nations membership from 51 in 
1945 to 115 in 1963. Today, there are 193 Members, and 
it is possible that the number will increase.
With  the  large  increase  in  the  membership  and 
the tremendous changes in the global geopolitical and 
geo-economic  landscape  since  the  inception  of  the 
United Nations in 1945, we have all agreed to the reform 
of the Council in five areas, as mandated by decision 
62/557  of  2008,  to  bring  the  Council  into  line  with 
present-day reality. After two decades of negotiations, 
first under the Ad Hoc Working Group and later under 
the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process,  we  should 
be  in  a  position  to  reach  consensus  on  all  these  five 
areas.
With  respect  to  the  categories  of  membership, 
there is no objection to the expansion of non-permanent 
members.  However,  different  views  remain  on  the 
expansion  of  the  number  of  permanent  members.  On 
the  question  of  the  veto,  there  appears  to  be  growing 
support  for  the  so-called  code  of  conduct  proposed 
by  France,  instead  of  an  outright  abolition  of  the 
veto,  which  is  highly  unlikely,  if  not  impossible.  On 
regional  representation,  there  is  a  clear  consensus  on 
equitable regional representation. Concerning the size 
of  an  enlarged  Security  Council,  there  seems  to  be  a 
convergence of views that an enlarged Council should 
be  in  the  mid-twenties.  With  regard  to  improving  the 
working methods of the Council, there is no objection 
to improvement of the working methods either before 
or  after  reform.  In  fact,  improving  the  Council’s 
working methods should be an ongoing process that is 
not held hostage to overall reform of the Council. On 
the relationship between the Security Council and the 
General Assembly, I believe that we all agree that those 
two principal organs of the United Nations should work 
in unison in accordance with their respective mandates, 
as given in the Charter.
The  only  issue  that  seems  to  be  holding  back  the 
much-needed  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  the 
expansion  of  the  permanent  membership.  On  that 
issue,  Thailand  has  always  been  open  to  all  ideas  or 
proposals,  including  the  expansion  of  both  categories 
of membership or the introduction of so-called interim 
or intermediate options. We share the view of a number 
of  Member  States  that  reform  will  be  possible  only 
if  Member  States  are  willing  to  be  more  flexible  and 
prepared  to  engage  in  give-and-take  negotiations.  We 
are also receptive to the proposal of holding a text-based 
negotiation. However, before we embark upon drafting 
any  text,  all  must  first  agree  on  the  principles  for  a 
possible way forward, especially on the most important 
issue of increasing the number of permanent members.
In  our  view,  it  will  be  very  difficult  to  reach 
consensus on an increase in the number of permanent 
members, at least in the immediate future, due to the firm 
opposition of certain Member States that are skeptical 
of the need to add more permanent seats to the Council. 
However,  that  does  not  mean  that  such  an  expansion 
will  be  not  possible  in  the  long  term.  Countries  that 
wish  to  become  new  permanent  members  must  prove 
that they have both the capacity and the commitment to 
strengthening the Council, while the wider membership, 
on  the  other  hand,  should  have  the  right  to  evaluate 
whether  the  addition  of  new  permanent  members  has 
any  proven  merit.  Unlike  the  current  five  permanent 
members,  which  were  given  permanent  seats  because 
of  their  historical  contribution  to  bringing  an  end  to 
the  Second  World  War  and  subsequently  establishing 
a  new  international  organization  known  today  as  the 
United  Nations,  the  new  members  should  be  given 
permanent  seats  if  they  can  clearly  demonstrate  their 
capacity and commitment to maintaining international 
peace and security. More importantly, the expansion of 
the permanent membership must prove to be useful in 
enhancing the Council’s efficiency and effectiveness.
In  order  to  give  the  aspiring  permanent  members 
the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  capacity  and 
commitment, an interim category of membership should 
be  introduced  to  allow  them  to  serve  on  the  Council 
for three to five years, based on conditions and criteria 
to  be  established.  If  they  are  re-elected  for  a  second 
term, there could then be a review during or after the 
second term on the possible expansion of the permanent 
membership. However, the introduction of such interim 
seats should not affect the expansion of non-permanent 
members  based  on  the  principle  of  equitable  regional 
representation.
As  we  will  soon  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the United Nations and the tenth anniversary of the 
World Summit, Member States need to work together 
in  the  spirit  of  compromise  and  flexibility  to  ensure 
that the forthcoming eleventh round of negotiations in 
the context of the intergovernmental negotiations will 
produce  tangible  results  and  lead  to  progress.  Let  me 
join  other  speakers  in  thanking  and  paying  tribute  to 
20/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan for his tireless 
effots and the tremendous patience he showed during his 
six years as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
I would also like to warmly congratulate Ambassador 
Courtney Rattray of Jamaica on his recent appointment 
as  the  new  intergovernmental  negotiations  Chair.  My 
delegation has full confidence in Ambassador Rattray 
and wishes him well in his work.
We need a fresh approach and many new ideas and 
proposals to move the reform forward. The repetition of 
known positions leads nowhere. The ideas Thailand has 
put forward today are all aimed at breaking the deadlock 
by taking on board all the concerns and proposals of all 
sides that are either for or against the expansion of the 
number of permanent seats. Only when that deadlock is 
broken can we finally achieve a much-needed reform of 
the Security Council that is acceptable to all.
Mr.  Deniau  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  should  like  to  welcome  the  appointment 
of  Ambassador  Ambassador  Rattray  of  Jamaica  as 
facilitor  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  wish  him  every  success 
in his mission.
Discussions  on  Security  Council  reform  in  the 
General Assembly have been going on for almost two 
decades  now,  and  we  are  compelled  to  note  that  we 
have made no progress on the issue. Ambassador Tanin 
of  Afghanistan,  to  whose  work  I  pay  tribute,  tried  to 
offer Member States a concise and concrete document 
on  possible  modalities  for  reform,  but  no  agreement 
was  reached  to  advance  specifically  on  the  path  to 
expansion of the Council.
And yet the discussions at the sixty-eighth session 
within the framework of intergovernmental negotiations 
showed that a majority of Members of the Organization 
wanted  reform.  The  practical  arrangements  remain  to 
be specified, clearly, but it is a significant step forward, 
and we now need to move to negotiations based on a text, 
as has been emphasized today by the representatives of 
Guyana, Brazil, Saint Lucia, Sierra Leone and India.
France believes that the seventieth anniversary of 
the founding of the Organization should be utilized to 
bring the Member States to agreement on an ambitious 
reform  project.  My  country  hopes  that  a  text  will  be 
circulated  to  allow  concrete  negotiation  with  a  view 
to  expanding  the  Security  Council  in  both  categories 
of  membership.  Such  reform  is  critical.  The  Security 
Council  must  better  reflect  the  realities  of  today’s 
world while strengthening its capacity to fully assume 
its responsibilities for the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
France desires the Council to take into account the 
emergence of new Powers that are willing and able to 
take responsibility for a permanent seat in the Security 
Council and are, in accordance with the Charter of the 
United Nations, up to the task of making a significant 
contribution  to  the  action  of  the  Council.  In  this 
respect, it supports the candidacies of Germany, Brazil, 
India and Japan as permanent members of the Security 
Council,  as  well  as  an  increased  presence  of  African 
countries  among  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members.
I take this opportunity to remind the Assembly of 
the French initiative on voluntary regulation of the use 
of the veto. The ministerial meeting of 25 September on 
the veto, co-chaired by the Foreign Ministers of France 
and Mexico, showed that many Member States as well 
as civil society support this initiative, in which, I recall, 
the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
would  refrain  voluntarily  and  collectively  from  using 
the veto when a situation of mass atrocities has arisen. 
This  voluntary  approach,  as  several  speakers  have 
noted today, does not require a revision of the Charter. 
The discussions on the practicalities of implementation 
are continuing with our partners, and France hopes to 
reach agreement with the other permanent members of 
the  Security  Council  in  the  coming  months.  We  will 
continue in parallel to mobilize its supporters in order 
to maintain the momentum already operative.
Finally,  I  would  remind  the  Assembly  that  our 
initiative on the veto is distinct and complementary to 
the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council,  which  is  a 
reform for which France will continue to advocate.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  Mr.  President,  I 
would like to thank you for convening today’s debate 
on  agenda  item  119,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters”. My country 
follows this issue of utmost importance. Naturally, my 
delegation greatly appreciates your opening remarks.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent  Representative 
of  Jamaica,  on  his  appointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  express  our  commitment  to  working  with 
him  to  ensure  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council. 
14-62259
21/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
I would also like to express our deep appreciation for 
the  great  efforts  undertaken  by  the  previous  Chair, 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, in previous sessions.
diverse  interest  groups  and  Member  States  engaged 
in  intergovernmental  negotiations  with  a  view  to 
achieving reform of the Council.
Algeria  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of Iran and Kuwait on 
behalf of the Non-Alignment Movement and the Group 
of  Arab  States,  respectively.  I  now  would  like,  on 
instructions from my Government, to add the following 
remarks.
With regard to the reform of the Security Council, 
I reiterate Algeria’s commitment to this very important 
issue and state that we look forward to building on what 
was  achieved  during  the  past  session  on  the  basis  of 
General  Assembly  decision  62/557.  We  are  heartened 
that  during  the  general  debate  in  the  Assembly’s 
current session, many Heads of State and Government 
and  heads  of  delegation,  including  my  own  Foreign 
Minister,  reaffirmed  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  representative, 
democratic  and  legitimate.  We  must  now  all  continue 
to seek the goal of reaching an agreement on a reform 
model  that  takes  into  account  the  core  values  of  the 
United Nations, specifically inclusiveness, democracy, 
accountability, equality and transparency.
Correcting the present imbalance in the composition 
of  the  Council  with  a  view  to  transforming  it  into  a 
more  legitimate  organ  primarily  responsible  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security remains 
the collective responsibility of all Member States and the 
main objective of the General Assembly. We hope that 
at this session the pace will increase for a more frank 
and lively debate — one that is more flexible, willing 
to  strike  compromises  and  decisive  —  generating 
the  necessary  political  will  that  would  lead  to  such  a 
reform,  in  accordance  with  the  vision  of  our  leaders 
expressed at the 2005 World Summit.
Algeria 
is  a  member  of 
the  African  Union 
Committee of Ten. On that basis, Algeria actively takes 
part in the promotion of the African common position 
and  continues  to  engage  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations aimed at correcting the historical injustice 
suffered by Africa as the only continent not represented 
in  the  Security  Council’s  permanent  membership  and 
underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent  category.  To 
that end, we urge the wider United Nations membership 
to  work  with  Africa  to  address  this  injustice  with 
insistence.  We  are  committed  to  building  alliances 
in  support  of  the  African  common  position  with 
Africa’s  position 
is  a  continental  aspiration, 
with  which  we  believe  all  Member  States  and  other 
stakeholders  are  now  very  familiar.  In  that  regard, 
it  is  important  to  recall  that  in  1945,  when  the 
United  Nations  was  created,  most  of  Africa  was  not 
represented,  and  when  the  first  reform  took  place 
in  1963  Africa  was  represented  but  at  the  time  not 
considered  for  inclusion  in  the  permanent  category. 
Circumstances have changed since then, and it would 
merely be a question of simple justice for Africa to be 
fully represented in all decision-making organs of the 
United  Nations,  particularly  in  the  Security  Council. 
Full representation of Africa in the Council, according 
to  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration, 
means,  first,  acquiring  no  fewer  than  two  permanent 
seats,  with  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges  of 
permanent membership, including the right of veto if it 
continues to exist. Secondly, Africa is laying claim to 
five non-permanent seats.
We  note  with  concern  the  lack  of  progress  and 
concrete  results  during  the  ten  rounds  of  the  General 
Assembly’s intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform. Despite that fact, and in the spirit of 
our commitment to addressing the question of equitable 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council and other related matters, Algeria is 
ready to continue to engage constructively and in good 
faith  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
during the current session of General Assembly.
We  also  note  that  in  your  letter  of  10  November, 
Mr. President, you encourage Member States to move 
the process to text-based negotiations. In that case, my 
delegation  still  considers  the  second  revision  of  the 
compiled text a good basis for negotiations. However, 
there  is  a  need  for  general  agreement  on  what  to  do 
during the current session, and this debate could help 
the Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations further 
clarify  his  intentions  on  how  to  proceed.  Security 
Council reform should be addressed in a comprehensive, 
transparent and balanced manner.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  assure  you, 
Mr.  President,  of  our  full  support  and  cooperation 
in  making  more  progress  on  reforming  the  Security 
Council under your leadership.
like 
22/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
Mr. González de Linares Palou (Spain) (spoke in 
Spanish): I would first like to thank you, Mr. President, 
for the interest you have shown in working closely with 
all  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  on  the 
issue of Security Council reform.
We  congratulate  Ambassador  Rattray  warmly  on 
his  appointment  and  wish  him  every  success  in  his 
important task. He can count on Spain’s full support. 
I would also like to express our deep gratitude to his 
predecessor, Ambassador Tanin, for his work, tireless 
efforts and patience during his term.
We  subscribe  fully  to  the  statement  delivered  on 
behalf  of  Uniting  for  Consensus  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Italy  and  would  like  to  make  a  few 
additional remarks.
After  working  for  a  long  time  on  the  process  of 
reforming  the  Security  Council  —  in  my  case,  since 
1993 — my country has learned that our strength comes 
from unity, while divisive approaches and actions only 
cause  delays  and  complicate  reform  even  further.  As 
States Members of the United Nations, we all share the 
goal  of  creating  a  more  representative,  accountable, 
effective  and  democratic  Security  Council,  and  to 
achieve it we must be willing to consider new ideas and 
build bridges between the various groups and positions. 
The  Security  Council  reform  process  resembles  the 
construction  of  a  big  building.  It  needs  a  good,  solid 
foundation.  If  it  uses  only  part  of  that  foundation, 
the  building  cannot  be  built,  and  if  it  is  built,  it  will 
collapse.
We  are  eager  to  see  a  modern  version  of  the 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  and 
influential,  and  in  particular  a  place  where  African 
and  small  States  can  make  their  voices  heard.  Spain 
believes that increasing the Council’s membership will 
help it be more representative, but much more than that 
is  needed.  It  is  also  essential  that  we  increase  every 
Member State’s chances of having a seat on the Council 
from  time  to  time.  And  the  best  way  to  achieve  that 
goal is by increasing the number of elected seats, which 
would also make the Security Council more democratic 
and  accountable  to  all  the  Member  States  of  this 
Organization. That does not mean that new permanent 
seats should be created, since we believe that will not 
make the Council more representative. On the contrary, 
we would be creating a more exclusive Council rather 
than  a  more  inclusive  one,  turning  our  backs  on  the 
need  for  greater  democracy  and  accountability  in  the 
Council.
We need a more accountable and effective Council. 
Those  features  go  hand  in  hand.  Spain  supports  the 
idea  of  allowing  Member  States  that  wish  to  make  a 
significant contribution to the Council’s work to serve 
on it more often and for longer periods of time. Spain 
believes in a Security Council that is based on merit, 
not  privilege.  My  country  supports  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  proposal  to  create  seats  for  longer  terms 
with  the  possibility  of  immediate  re-election.  That 
formula,  we  believe,  would  enable  States  with  the 
desire  and  ability  to  contribute  more  to  the  Council’s 
work to extend their service on it.
to  reiterate 
In  conclusion,  Spain  wishes 
its 
willingness  to  collaborate  with  other  groups  and 
States Members of the United Nations to reach the best 
possible  solution  for  achieving  a  more  representative, 
accountable, effective and democratic Security Council.
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of my delegation, I would first like to thank you, 
Mr. President, for convening this meeting.
I  would  like  to  express  Argentina’s  support  for 
the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Italy 
on behalf of Uniting for Consensus. I would also like 
to  offer  our  thanks  to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan for his work in the past few years leading 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  to  warmly 
welcome  and  congratulate  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray of Jamaica on his appointment to the position. 
He  can  count  on  the  Argentine  delegation’s  full 
cooperation  and  constructive  efforts  in  his  work  as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations.
As  others  have  pointed  out,  the  process  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  has  been  framed  by  the  content  of  resolutions 
48/26  and  53/30  and  decision  62/557.  The  discussions 
have enabled us to exhaustively analyse the five main 
issues:  membership  categories,  the  veto  question, 
regional representation, the size and working methods 
of an expanded Security Council, and the relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly. Those 
issues are interrelated and cannot be tackled separately, 
since they are all parts of a single package.
The  areas  of  convergence  are  well  known.  The 
first, clearest and most basic is the absolute necessity 
of reforming the Security Council and ending the status 
quo.  An  unreformed  Council  is  obsolete.  Its  loss  of 
legitimacy, effectiveness and relevance affects the entire 
Organization.  There  are  other  areas  of  convergence, 
14-62259
23/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
of  course,  with  the  Council’s  working  methods  being 
a  clear  example  that  we  must  work  to  improve  and 
make  more  transparent.  Another  is  the  relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  And 
to  a  lesser  extent,  there  is  also  convergence  on  the 
number  of  members  on  an  expanded  Council.  But 
none of those three areas presents differences that are 
insoluble  or  insurmountable.  At  the  same  time,  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  has  identified 
other aspects on which we have divergent positions, in 
particular on the membership categories and the issue 
of the veto.
With respect to the first issue — the categories of 
membership  —  my  country  believes  that  the  reform 
should not allow for new permanent members or create 
exclusive categories. We are of the view that this type of 
seat, that is to say permanent seats, does not necessarily 
guarantee greater participation by those who at present 
are not represented in the Council. At the same time, we 
believe that any formula must include the concept of a 
legitimate democratic and representative process, with 
elections as a fundamental element.
The  phase  now  beginning  is  positive.  It  will 
enable  us  to  pragmatically  and  rationally  explore  the 
possibilities afforded us by the so-called intermediary 
solution. In so doing, we will achieve a compromise that 
satisfies all Member States, respecting the principles of 
transparency, good faith, mutual respect, openness and 
inclusiveness.
With regard to the issue of the veto, since the 1945 
negotiations at the San Francisco Conference and with 
greater  emphasis  at  the  first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  in  October  1946,  and  the  second  session, 
in  1947,  Argentina  established  a  very  firm  position 
against the veto. There is no doubt as to our position. 
In  the  years  that  followed,  my  delegation  reiterated 
that same position repeatedly. But at the same time, we 
believe that, given the fact that eliminating the veto is 
not possible at this point, formulas that would seek to 
perpetuate it or extend it to new members should not be 
accepted.
We  must  reach  a  comprehensive  solution,  not  by 
phases  or  in  an  incomplete  manner.  As  I  said  earlier, 
all  the  issues  are  linked  and  cannot  be  dealt  with 
separately. We all know that in any negotiating process, 
intransigent  positions  do  not  lead  to  any  result.  We 
have the opportunity to overcome the impasse and the 
lack  of  progress.  We  call  on  all  delegations  to  follow 
the  example  of  Uniting  for  Consensus,  as  expressed 
by  the  representative  of  Italy  this  morning,  to  show 
flexibility  and  readiness  to  work  on  innovative  and 
consistent formulas that will ensure a more democratic 
presence  in  the  Council,  based  on  rotation  among 
the  non-permanent  members,  and  to  reformulate  the 
working  methods  so  that  the  Council  can  be  more 
democratic, fair and transparent.
In  closing,  my  delegation  wishes  to  once  again 
reiterate  the  Argentine  Government”s  intention  to 
compromise, to remain open to any approach that can 
brings  positions  closer  together  and  that  can  bring 
about the much-needed reform of the Security Council. 
My  country  is  confident  that  under  your  leadership, 
Mr. President, and that of Ambassador Rattray, we can 
take the first steps on the path to agreement.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I 
thank you, Mr. President, for convening this debate on 
the reform of the Security Council and for your decision 
to separate this discussion from that on the Council’s 
annual report to the General Assembly. They are issues 
that deserve their own space and separate discussions.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Italy on behalf of Uniting for 
Consensus.
My delegation welcomes the new facilitator of the 
intergovernmental negotiations, Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray, and extends to him its support and willingness 
to work towards our common goal — an outcome that is 
acceptable to all. We also thank Ambassador Tanin for 
his leadership in this process over the past five years.
Over  20  years  of  discussions,  we  have  found  that 
the  most  important  quality  for  a  facilitator  on  this 
issue is the ability to listen to the positions of Member 
States with impartiality, transparency and objectivity, 
and  on  that  basis  determine  the  way  that  will  allow 
for agreement to be reached on a solution that has the 
widest  possible  support.  The  facilitator  also  needs 
flexibility  on  the  part  of  States  to  move  towards  that 
common  goal.  Without  flexibility  or  willingness  to 
compromise,  the  facilitator’s  room  to  manoeuver  is 
reduced to a minimum. In such a scenario, we cannot 
wait  for  the  person  directing  the  process  to  interpret 
the  various  positions  or,  worse,  discard  or  minimize 
proposals submitted by delegations.
Listening  to  the  Member  States  does  not  mean 
seeking to impose summary documents with artificial 
24/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
level  of  flexibility,  and 
timetables.  The  document  length  does  not  determine 
delegations’ 
imposing  a 
timetable  fosters  distrust,  generates  larger  divisions 
and  focuses  our  discussions  on  the  form  and  not  the 
substance of this debate. Security Council reform is a 
process that can be guided only by all Member States, 
and not just a few. It is a process that, in order to move 
forward,  must  start  from  common  positions.  The  the 
second revision of the document and the expansion of 
the number of non-permanent Council members are the 
only  elements  that,  after  20  years  of  discussions,  all 
Member States have been able to agree on, and therefore 
they  constitute  two  pillars  on  the  basis  of  which  to 
resume  our  negotiations  with  flexibility  and  without 
assuming  an  outcome  that  has  been  pre-designed  to 
favour a few Member States.
Security Council reform is also an urgent process. 
Council  inaction  in  recent  crises  has  had  significant 
consequences.  It  is  a  paralysis  that  often  prevents  it 
from  responding  in  a  timely  and  effectively  manner, 
and  we  must  correct  that.  That  is  why  France  and 
Mexico convened and co-hosted a discussion during the 
high-level week of the sixty-ninth session on restricting 
the use of the veto in situations of war crimes, crimes 
against humanity or genocide. That initiative is a step 
in the right direction and provides the five permanent 
members  the  opportunity  to  renew  their  commitment 
to  the  primary  responsibility  of  the  Council  —  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Throughout  the  negotiations  process,  Uniting  for 
Consensus  has  reviewed  and  outlined  reform  models 
that  can  meet  the  expectations  of  the  majority  of 
Member  States.  Uniting  for  Consensus  has  focused 
on listening to the voices and taking into account the 
interests  of  small  States,  including  small  island  and 
developing  countries,  which  have  faced  enormous 
challenges to date in seeking to be elected as members 
of the Council. We are also sensitive to the expectations 
of those States aspiring to play a more important role in 
maintaining international peace and security.
Mexico and Uniting for Consensus do not seek to 
impose their vision on the rest of the membership. We 
want to achieve a compromise with which the highest 
number  of  Member  States  can  identify.  We  oppose 
permanence and therefore promote a clear and simple 
proposal, with additional seats allocated on the basis of 
the  principle  of  equitable  geographical  representation 
and mandates longer than the current two years, with 
the possibility of immediate re-election.
Mexico  conceives  of  a  Security  Council  with 
26 members, where, in addition to the five permanent 
members, there are six countries from Africa, five from 
Asia,  four  from  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Group, three from the Group of Western European and 
other States, two from the Group of Eastern European 
States  and  one  small  island  developing  State  or  other 
small State. We believe that this proposal and its details 
with respect to election of regular members and those 
with broader mandates, the decision-making processes 
in  the  Council,  the  various  perspectives  on  working 
methods, and the relationship between the Council and 
the General Assembly would reconcile the aspirations 
of  all  parties  while,  on  the  one  hand,  adjusting  the 
composition  of  the  Council  to  new  regional  realities 
and,  on  the  other,  securing  a  broader  presence  than 
usual for those States willing to serve more frequently 
on  the  Council.  This  model  provides  a  sufficient 
margin  of  action  to  negotiate  and  ensure  appropriate 
regional representation for all underrepresented groups 
while  also  preserving  the  principles  of  transparency 
and accountability.
As  Latin  Americans,  we  understand  perfectly 
the  aspirations  of  the  African  Group  to  equitable 
representation  that  would  allow  it  to  play  its  rightful 
role  in  the  Council.  We  conceive  of  their  legitimate 
claim as an expression of the strength that gives them 
unity and consensus, and not as an individual aspiration 
to power and privilege.
As  we  begin  a  new  cycle  in  the  process  of 
negotiations,  Mexico  would  reiterate  the  five  core 
principles  or  criteria  that  have  regulated  and  will 
continue  to  guide  our  participation  in  this  process: 
first, to improve the representativeness of the Security 
Council by adding new elected members on the basis 
of equitable geographical distribution while preserving 
the  accountability  of  these  members  through  regular 
elections;  secondly,  improve  balance  in  the  Council’s 
decision-making process through a prolonged presence 
of elected members; thirdly, improve the access of all 
States to the Security Council through an appropriate 
expansion  while  preserving  its  efficiency;  fourthly, 
improve  the  Council’s  effectiveness  by  promoting 
measures to limit the use of the veto by the permanent 
members; 
the  Council’s 
transparency by reforming its working methods and its 
relationship  with  the  General  Assembly.  Accordingly, 
Mexico  supports  the  proposals  of  the  Accountability, 
improve 
and 
fifthly, 
14-62259
25/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
Coherence and Transparency Group on those topics and 
considers them to be an excellent point of departure.
We  commend  you,  Mr.  President,  in  considering 
and being guided by these premises to revive the current 
process in the interest of achieving the reform that we 
all hope for. The reform of the Security Council will not 
be achieved if new privileges are granted in perpetuity 
to  some  States  in  order  to  meet  national  ambitions. 
Undoubtedly, a new Security Council should be based 
on  merit  and  not  on  privilege.  We  are  confident  that, 
in  the  full  awareness  of  the  divergent  positions  on 
this  matter,  your  able  leadership,  Sir,  and  that  of  the 
facilitator will guide us to the compromise solution that 
we all hope for. Both nationally and in the Uniting for 
Consensus movement, Mexico will maintain its active 
and  constructive  participation  with  openness  and 
absolute transparency.
Mr.  Ruiz  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like  to  begin,  Sir,  by  thanking  you  for  calling  for  an 
extension of the intergovernmental negotiation process 
in a constructive manner. 
I  align  myself  with 
the  statement  made  by 
Ambassador  Cardi  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus Group. 
I wish to thank Ambassador Tanin for his dedication 
over  the  past  five  years  and  welcome  Ambassador 
Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica as our new facilitator, as 
he is from a country of the Group of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States.  Familiar  as  we  are  with  his 
proven  diplomatic  abilities,  we  are  confident  that  his 
input and impartiality will safeguard the transparency 
of the process.
As we all know, the intergovernmental negotiations 
process has gone on much longer than we would have 
wished, but that does not mean it is any less constructive, 
as it has enabled us to participate in a dialogue in which 
we  have  been  able  to  know  fully  the  positions  of  the 
other  groups.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  believes 
that it pertinent to highlight that over the 10 rounds of 
negotiations so far, it has become clear that constructive 
engagement of the various groups and the need to show 
flexibility  are  the  cornerstones  for  progress  in  the 
process and for the achievement of concrete outcomes.
To  get  there,  and  recognizing  the  difficulties 
inherent in reforming the Security Council, we believe 
it  timely  to  explore  the  possibilities  of  ensuring  that 
the  process  will  be  more  agile,  allowing  for  better 
exchange of ideas and leading thereby to progress. All 
of that would be undertaken with respect for and in the 
framework  of  the  clear  provisions  set  out  in  decision 
62/557.  Colombia  supports 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  based  on  the  2009  consensus, 
which are reflected in the provisions of that decision.
the 
In view of the foregoing, we take this opportunity 
to invite all delegations and groups to show flexibility 
and openness in order to engage in an inclusive process 
and  reach  a  democratic  consensus.  I  should  also  say 
that  inclusiveness  and  democratic  consensus  are  the 
two pillars upon which Colombia’s position of principle 
on the reform process is based. We also firmly believe 
in  the  sovereign  equality  of  States.  Since  the  San 
Francisco  Conference  at  which  the  Organization  was 
founded,  and  through  each  of  the  25  representatives 
who have led the Colombian delegation to date, as well 
as the seven opportunities we have had to serve in the 
Security  Council,  Colombia  has  always  called  for  the 
Council  to  be  more  representative,  accountable  and 
transparent.
However,  as  we  all  know,  the  world  in  which  the 
United  Nations  was  born  in  1945  is  very  different 
from that of today, and the historical and geopolitical 
conditions  in  which  the  only  reform  that  has  been 
possible  to  date,  which  took  place  51  years  ago,  have 
changed  beyond  recognition.  That  is  why  we  have  to 
ask ourselves whether the proposals on the negotiating 
table are the best way forward for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, given the challenges 
posed 
crises, 
transborder  criminal  networks  and  terrorism,  as  well 
as the need for peacekeeping operations to evolve and 
be  more  effective.  Are  these  the  discussions  that  can 
lead to the establishment of a Security Council that is 
adapted to the new realities?
unprecedented 
by 
humanitarian 
As far as my country is concerned, we must have 
comprehensive,  transparent,  balanced  and  equitable 
negotiations  that  reflect  the  needs  and  interests  of  all 
Member States, especially developing countries, which 
cannot continue to be underrepresented in the Security 
Council.  We  must  recognize  that  through  the  reform 
process  we  must  create  more  space  and  opportunities 
to  ensure  the  participation  of  all  States  on  an  equal 
footing, without any privileges for just a few.
In closing, I wish to reiterate the readiness of my 
delegation  to  continue  to  work  towards  a  reform  that 
would endow the Organization with a Security Council 
26/28 
14-62259
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.49
that is legitimate, inclusive and guided by democratic 
principles.
Mr.  Akinterinwa  (Nigeria):  Mr.  President,  we 
recall  that  on  your  election  on  11  June  2014  you 
remarked  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform  had  not  made  the  desired 
progress  and  you  assured  us  that  you  would  work 
with  Member  States  to  make  further  progress  on 
this  important  issue  (see  A/68/PV.93).  My  delegation 
therefore especially commends you for convening this 
meeting and for your determination to move the process 
forward  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth  session. 
We should also recall, Mr. President, that during your 
address at the start of the session on 16 September (see 
A/69/PV.1), you stated that one of your priorities would 
be a continued focus on Security Council reform, and 
you  stressed  the  urgency  of  the  need  for  that  reform, 
based on the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1). Today’s meeting and other steps you have taken 
in this direction are indeed practical demonstrations of 
your firm commitment to the process.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by Ambassador Vandi Minah, the Permanent 
Representative  of  Sierra  Leone,  and  Ambassador 
Menissa  Rambally,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf,  respectively,  of  the  African 
Group on the common African position, and the L.69 
Group.
We  commend  Ambassador  Tanin  of  Afghanistan 
on  his  exemplary  leadership  of  the  past  10  rounds  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  welcome  the 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  the 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, as Chair of the 
eleventh  round.  We  would  like  to  assure  him  of  our 
cooperation. It is our sincere hope that this round will 
advance the discussions to a new level and will not end 
the way previous rounds of negotiations have.
The reform of the Security Council is inspired by 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
clear objective of the process is based on the sovereign 
equality  of  all  Member  States  and  on  the  importance 
of  adhering  to  the  principles  of  democratization  and 
inclusiveness in the United Nations. It is nevertheless 
a  paradox  that  our  past  efforts  to  move  the  process 
of  negotiation  on  the  subject  to  a  text-based  stage 
have  been  hampered  by  a  lack  of  consensus,  making 
the  annual  rounds  of  negotiations  a  mere  academic 
exercise, with no real results achieved.
It  is  now  10  years  since  the  2005  World  Summit, 
when  leaders  collectively  called  for  speedy  reform  of 
the Council. We should therefore have a progress report, 
along with a negotiation text, to submit for our leaders’ 
consideration  when  they  meet  at  the  2015  summit, 
which will also mark the seventieth anniversary of the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  The  outcome  of 
the  eleventh  round  of  negotiations  should  therefore 
underscore our commitment to reforming the Council, 
as  the  relevant  resolutions  and  the  inclination  of  all 
Member States demand.
As  the  previous  intergovernmental  negotiations 
demonstrated,  it  is  obvious  that  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  delegations  supports  expansion  of  the 
Council  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories of membership. What is required of us at this 
juncture is that we move to the stage of real negotiations 
with  the  aid  of  a  working  document.  For  that  reason, 
we would like to highlight our expectation that during 
the  eleventh  round  of  negotiations  we  will  ensure 
that  we  move  to  the  stage  of  text-based  negotiations. 
Otherwise there will be no significant departure from 
our experience in the past 10 rounds.
Nigeria  has  continued  to  express  its  support  for 
advancing  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process 
in an open, inclusive and transparent manner, and my 
delegation accordingly calls on all parties to be prepared 
to  display  openness  and  flexibility  in  order  to  make 
concessions that will enable us to find common ground 
and move the process forward in a progressive manner. 
We would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the 
African common position, as expressed in the Ezulwini 
Consensus,  which  we  strongly  support.  We  also  wish 
to  underscore  the  overriding  importance  of  ensuring 
that  Africa’s  interests  continue  to  be  advanced  and 
safeguarded during this new process.
The Group of African States supports comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council, particularly in the area 
of membership. In that connection, the Group demands 
two seats in the permanent category and an additional 
two in the non-permanent category. This is important 
if we are to correct the historical injustice done to the 
continent and its marginalization over many years. In 
addition,  Africa  advocates  that  the  prerogative  of  the 
veto  be  abolished,  but  if  it  must  continue  to  exist,  it 
should be extended to new permanent members as well.
As  we  look  forward  to  fruitful  deliberations  and 
concrete results from the eleventh round of negotiations, 
14-62259
27/28
A/69/PV.49 
12/11/2014
we  will  continue  to  count  on  your  leadership,  Sir,  in 
steering the process successfully this time to a logical 
conclusion.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
28/28 
14-62259
