United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
55th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 18 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 66
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and 
follow-up to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action
Draft resolution (A/69/L.3)
Agenda item 132 (continued)
Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/563)
The  President:  It  is  with  a  sense  of  pride  and 
satisfaction  that  I  preside  over  the  General  Assembly 
at  this  historic  moment  when  the  United  Nations  is 
about to embark on the observation of the International 
Decade for People of African Descent.
When  one  thinks  of  the  courage  and  fortitude 
of  the  people  of  African  descent  emerging  from  the 
devastating reality that was slavery and the transatlantic 
slave  trade,  one  cannot  but  be  humbled  to  know  how 
far  they  have  come.  However,  while  recognizing  the 
progress  made,  we  need  to  go  much  further.  Racism 
and cultural, structural and institutional discrimination 
against people of African descent continue to manifest 
themselves  in  situations  that  limit  access  to  quality 
education,  employment,  housing  and  health  care. 
Worldwide,  people  of  African  descent  are  frequently 
among  the  most  marginalized  members  of  society. 
They  also  inhabit  the  poorest  districts  with  the  most 
precarious  and  neglected  infrastructure.  They  are 
vulnerable to crime and violence. In attempts to seek 
legal  redress,  they  too  often  face  discrimination  in 
access to justice.
In  2001  we  adopted  the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action at the World Conference against 
Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related 
Intolerance. The Programme of Action confirmed what 
we all know to be true — that people of African descent 
still suffer as victims from the consequences of slavery, 
the slave trade and colonialism. With the adoption of the 
theme of the International Decade — “People of African 
descent: recognition, justice and development” — the 
international community has provided an opportunity 
to have a global conversation about the burdens and the 
accomplishments of people of African descent.
Evidence of the contributions of people of African 
descent to the development of our societies is abundant 
and  irrefutable.  The  International  Decade  is  designed 
to  celebrate  those  contributions.  In  so  doing,  the 
International  Decade  can  help  break  down  the  walls 
of  stereotype  and  stigma  that  often  surround  people 
of  African  descent.  It  is  equally  important  for  the 
International Decade to raise awareness and contribute 
to  the  efforts  of  Member  States  and  the  international 
community to ensure the promotion, respect, protection 
and  fulfilment  of  human  rights  of  peoples  of  African 
dissent  and  their  full  and  equal  participation  in  all 
aspects of society.
Today we have a unique opportunity to make this 
International  Decade  one  of  the  actions  of  promise. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-63492 (E)
*1463492*
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
By  adopting  the  draft  resolution  and  the  programme 
of action before us, the General Assembly will take a 
bold  step  towards  that  objective.  African  descendants 
around  the  world  are  watching  and  counting  on  us  to 
do so.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/69/L.3, entitled “Programme of activities 
for the implementation of the International Decade for 
People of African Descent”.
is therefore important that the programme just adopted 
be  implemented  in  an  efficient  and  effective  manner, 
under the leadership of the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Let me conclude by reiterating the EU’s commitment 
to  ensuring  a  successful  Decade,  with  a  focus  on  the 
added  value  and  concrete  improvements  in  the  fight 
against  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related intolerance everywhere in the world.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/69/L.3?
Draft resolution A/69/L.3 was adopted (resolution 
69/16).
The President: Before giving the floor to speakers 
in  explanation  of  position,  may  I  remind  delegations 
that explanations are limited to 10 minutes and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Bova  (Italy):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on 
behalf of the European Union (EU).
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  South 
African  facilitator,  Ambassador  Mamabolo,  for  his 
stewardship of this process. I would also like to take this 
opportunity to thank the African Group, the Caribbean 
Community,  Brazil  and  other  delegations  that  have 
been  engaged  interlocutors  during  the  consultation 
process leading to today’s unanimous adoption of the 
programme activities for the International Decade for 
People of African Descent (resolution 69/16, annex).
The EU has been, is and will remain a firm believer 
in  the  international  fight  against  all  forms  of  racism, 
xenophobia and intolerance, and will always advocate 
for the promotion and protection of the human rights of 
all, including those of people of African descent.
As  we  have  repeated  throughout  this  process,  it 
is  only  through  the  ownership  and  engagement  of  all 
States  that  the  Decade  can  successfully  achieve  its 
objectives.  In  this  light,  we  expect  the  Decade  to  be 
implemented in an effective and collaborative manner at 
the local, national and international levels. To that end, 
national  action  and  political  will  are  paramount.  The 
European Union and its member States look forward to 
continue playing an active role in the implementation 
of the Decade.
One of the main concerns for my delegation, prior 
to  the  adoption  of  resolution  69/16  today,  was  the 
budgetary implications of the programme activities. It 
Israel 
recognizes 
extremely 
(Israel): 
contains 
Mr.  Israeli 
that 
resolution  69/16 
important 
elements,  and  Israel  supports  its  goal.  However, 
Israel  must  disassociate  itself  from  the  reference  in 
several preambular paragraphs in the resolution to the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action adopted 
by  the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance in 
2001 and related processes.
Thirteen  years  ago,  the  majority  of  countries 
remained silent while the Durban Conference became 
a  vehicle  for 
incitement,  racism,  anti-Semitism, 
intolerance and prejudice against the State of Israel. The 
Jewish  people  have  fought  against  racism  throughout 
our history, and Israel remains committed to this goal.
Mr.  Dempsey  (Canada):  While  Canada  supports 
the  essence  and  objectives  of  resolution  69/16,  it 
opposes the references to the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference 
against Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related 
Intolerance in 2001 and related processes contained in 
the  perambular  sections  of  the  resolution.  Instead  of 
fostering  concerted  global  action  against  racism,  the 
2001 Conference degenerated into a politicized forum 
that  served  to  promote  intolerance  and  anti-Semitism 
rather  than  combat  it.  Canada  firmly  believes  that 
the  Durban  process  remains  highly  politicized  to  this 
day and that it has been unable to distance itself from 
its  controversial  past,  including  its  open  and  divisive 
expressions of intolerance and anti-Semitism.
While Canada disapproves of the reference to that 
process  in  this  resolution,  Canada  will  nevertheless 
continue  to  work  in  practical  ways  with  the  United 
Nations  and  its  Member  States  towards  addressing 
racism,  promoting  tolerance  and  non-discrimination 
and recognizing and promoting the rights of people of 
African descent.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of position.
2/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): Brazil takes this 
opportunity to welcome the adoption of resolution 69/16, 
on the programme of activities for the implementation 
of  the  International  Decade  for  People  of  African 
Descent.  Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing  a  high-level  event 
to officially launch, on 10 December – Human Rights 
Day – the International Decade for People of African 
Descent, as mandated by resolution 68/237.
We  agree  with  you,  Mr.  President,  that  13  years 
after the 2001 World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
discrimination  faced  by  people  of  African  descent  is 
still a challenge due to violence and lack of education 
and  employment.  To  that  we  can  add  social  and 
economic inequality and a lack of national legislation 
on combating racial discrimination.
Brazil  has  arduously  worked,  both  in  Geneva 
and  in  New  York,  towards  a  strong  agreement  on  the 
programme of activities that could serve as a road map 
for  promoting  racial  equality  worldwide.  Allow  me 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
Kingsley  Mamabolo  for  successfully  concluding  the 
consultation process on the programme of activities, as 
well as to thank the regional groups, the African group, 
the Caribbean Community and the European Union for 
contributing to this successful outcome.
Brazil has the largest population of Afro-descendants 
outside of Africa. In 2013, that segment of the Brazilian 
population  accounted  for  over  100  million,  and  that 
number is expected to rise to over 115 million by 2042. 
However,  more  than  three  centuries  of  slavery  have 
taken their toll. Although people of African descent are 
a majority in Brazil, they still live on the outskirts of 
urban centres, earn lower wages and have less access 
to education. In addition, according to statistics, their 
sons and daughters are more vulnerable to violence.
President  Dilma  Rousseff  has  made  it  clear  that 
racism is not only a heinous crime but also an outrage 
that  we  must  spare  no  effort  to  punish  and  eradicate. 
Public  policies  and  the  engagement  of  the  State 
are  essential.  Brazil  has  implemented  affirmative 
programmes  and  national  policies  aimed  at  ending 
extreme poverty, including conditional cash transfers, 
social  safety  nets,  minimum  wage  legislation  and 
Government procurement of food and services within 
local communities. Those have contributed significantly 
to poverty eradication in general and the reduction of 
the inequalities among different racial and vulnerable 
groups in particular.
Over  the  past  10  years,  Brazil  has  lifted  over 
36  million  people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  Seventy-
five per cent of this new emerging middle class are of 
African descent. Whereas in 2002 only 38 per cent of 
the middle class was comprised of African-Brazilians, 
in  2012  they  made  up  51  per  cent  of  the  Brazilian 
population.
immense 
importance 
to 
Brazil  attaches 
the 
International Decade for People of African Descent and 
to the programme of activities, which, we expect, will 
contribute  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  and  raise 
awareness  on  combating  prejudice,  intolerance  and 
racism.
The theme for the International Decade for People 
of  African  Descent  is  “People  of  African  descent: 
recognition,  justice  and  development”.  We  expect 
that  by  launching  the  Decade  and  implementing  its 
programme  of  activities,  Member  States,  along  with 
civil society, the United Nations and all other relevant 
stakeholders, will show their resolve to promote respect 
for and the protection and fulfilment of all human rights 
and fundamental freedoms to the benefit of people of 
African  descent.  Brazil  also  expects  that  we  will  be 
able  to  raise  awareness  of  the  rich  cultural  legacy  of 
people of African descent and their knowledge, diverse 
heritage and culture all over the world.
Ten years from now, we hope our work will have 
brought justice to people of African descent, honoured 
their  culture  and  history  and  rectified  the  social  and 
economic inequality they have been subjected to.
We  believe  diversity  is  an  asset.  By  promoting 
respect  for  the  human  rights  of  all  people  of  African 
descent,  we  are  unmistakably  strengthening  our 
common bonds as human beings.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (b) 
of agenda item 66.
Agenda item 113
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/564)
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
14-63492
3/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary  Questions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning  on  1  January  2015:  Mr.  Pavel  Chernikov 
(Russian  Federation),  Mr.  Ali  A.  Ali  Kurer  (Libya), 
Mr.  Dietrich  Lingenthal  (Germany),  Mr.  Fernando 
de  Oliveira  Sena  (Brazil)  and  Mr.  David  Traystman 
(United States of America).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint Mr. Pavel Chernikov, Mr. Ali A. Ali Kurer, 
Mr.  Dietrich  Lingenthal,  Mr.  Fernando  de  Oliveira 
Sena  and  Mr.  David  Traystman  as  members  of  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/565)
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (a)  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term 
of  office  beginning  1  January  2015:  Mr.  Fu  Daopeng 
(China), Mr. Kuna1 Khatri (United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland), Mr. Nikolay Lozinskiy 
(Russian Federation), Mr. Henrique da Silveira Sardinha 
Pinto  (Brazil),  Mr.  Thomas  Schlesinger  (Austria)  and 
Mr. Yoo Dae-jong (Republic of Korea).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint Mr. Fu Daopeng, Mr. Kuna1 Khatri, Mr. Nikolay 
Lozinskiy,  Mr.  Henrique  da  Silveira  Sardinha  Pinto, 
Mr.  Thomas  Schlesinger  and  Mr.  Yoo  Dae-jong  as 
members  of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (b)  of  the  same 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  also  recommends  that 
the  General  Assembly  appoint  Mr.  Mohamed  A. 
Elshakshuki (Libya) as a member of the Committee on 
Contributions for a term of office beginning on the date 
of adoption of the decision and ending on 31 December 
2016.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint Mr. Mohamed A. Elshakshuki as a member 
of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a  term  of 
office beginning on 18 November 2014 and ending on 
31 December 2016?
It was so decided.
(c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/566)
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly confirm the reappointment by the Secretary-
General  of  the  following  persons  as  regular  members 
of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a  one-year  term  of 
office  beginning  on  1  January  2015:  Mr.  Masakazu 
Arikawa (Japan), Mr. Madhav Dhar (India), Mr. Nemir 
A. Kirdar (Iraq), Mr. Michael Klein (United States of 
America) and Mr. Ivan Pictet (Switzerland), in addition 
to  the  conversion  of  the  membership  of  Gumersindo 
Oliveros  (Spain)  from  ad  hoc  to  regular  membership, 
for  a  one-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2015.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
confirm the reappointments by the Secretary-General of 
Mr. Masakazu Arikawa, Mr. Madhav Dhar, Mr. Nemir 
A.  Kirdar,  Mr.  Michael  Klein  and  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  as 
regular  members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a 
one-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2015, 
and  to  convert  the  membership  of  Mr.  Gumersindo 
Oliveros  from  ad  hoc  to  regular  membership  for  a 
one-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
(d) Appointment of members of the International 
Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/567)
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (a)  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  International  Civil  Service  Commission  for  a 
four-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2015: 
Ms. Marie-Françoise Bechtel (France), Mr. Emmanuel 
Oti Boateng (Ghana), Ms. Carleen Gardner (Jamaica), 
Mr.  Kingston  Papie  Rhodes  (Sierra  Leone)  and 
Mr. Eugeniusz Wyzner (Poland).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint  Ms.  Marie-Françoise  Bechtel,  Mr.  Emmanuel 
Oti Boateng, Ms. Carleen Gardner, Mr. Kingston Papie 
Rhodes and Mr. Eugeniusz Wyzner as members of the 
4/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (b)  of  the  same 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  also  recommends  the 
designation  of  Mr.  Kingston  Papie  Rhodes  (Sierra 
Leone)  as  Chair  of  the  International  Civil  Service 
Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on 1 January 2015.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
designate Mr. Kingston Papie Rhodes as Chair of the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
(e)  Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/568)
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  Mr.  J.  Christopher  Mihm  (United 
States  of  America)  and  Mr.  Richard  Quartei  Quartey 
(Ghana) as members of the Independent Audit Advisory 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2015.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  J.  Christopher  Mihm  and  Mr.  Richard 
Quartei Quartey as members of the Independent Audit 
Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2015?
It was so decided.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  is  the  wish  of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
sub-items (a) to (e) of agenda item 113?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(g) Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/69/106)
The President: As indicated in document A/69/106, 
the  General  Assembly  is  required,  during  the  sixty-
ninth session, to appoint four members to fill the four 
vacancies  on  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  that  will  arise 
from the expiration of the term of office on 31 December 
2015 of Mr. Gérard Biraud (France), Mr. Papa Louis Fall 
(Senegal),  Mr.  István  Posta  (Hungary)  and  Mr.  Cihan 
Terzi (Turkey).
As  also 
in 
accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the  statute 
of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly shall consult with Member States to 
draw up a list of countries, in this case four countries, 
which  would  be  requested  to  propose  candidates  for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit.
in  document  A/69/106, 
indicated 
Also,  as  indicated  in  paragraph  2  of  document 
A/69/106,  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution 
61/238, decided that beginning on 1 January 2008, the 
President of the General Assembly, when drawing up the 
list of countries in accordance with article 3, paragraph 
1, of the statute of the Unit, will invite Member States to 
submit the names of the countries and their respective 
candidates  simultaneously,  on  the  understanding  that 
the candidates submitted would be the candidates that 
the  respective  Member  States  intended  to  propose,  to 
the extent possible, for appointment by the Assembly in 
accordance with article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute.
I  would 
to  communicate 
I would like to inform members that the Permanent 
Representative of Mauritania to the United Nations, in 
his  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  African  States 
for  the  month  of  November  2014,  has  requested  the 
postponement  of  the  election  for  the  seat  allocated  to 
the African States.
like 
the  following 
information to the Assembly received from the Chairs 
of  regional  groups.  For  the  one  vacancy  from  among 
the  Eastern  European  States,  the  Group  has  endorsed 
Romania;  for  the  two  vacancies  from  among  Western 
European  and  other  States,  there  are  two  endorsed 
candidates, namely, Canada and Germany. In accordance 
with Article 3, paragraph 1, of the statute of the Joint 
Inspection  Unit,  Canada,  Germany  and  Romania  will 
be requested to submit the names of candidates and the 
curriculums vitae highlighting the candidates’ relevant 
qualifications for the tasks ahead.
I would like to remind members that, in accordance 
with  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December  2004,  the 
candidates  should  have  experience  in  at  least  one 
of  the  following  fields:  oversight,  audit,  inspection, 
investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project  evaluation, 
14-63492
5/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
programme  evaluation,  human  resource  management, 
public  administration,  monitoring  and  all-programme 
performance,  as  well  as  knowledge  of  the  United 
Nations system and its role in international relations.
the 
appropriate 
After  holding 
consultation 
described in Article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of the 
Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with the 
President of the Economic and Social Council and with 
the Secretary-General, in his capacity as Chairman of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination, I will submit the names of the candidates 
to the Assembly for appointment to the Joint Inspection 
Unit.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  our  consideration  of  sub-item  (g)  of  agenda 
item 113.
Agenda item 133
Programme Planning
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/539)
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  the  draft  resolution  recommended  by  the 
Fifth  Committee  in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The 
Fifth Committee adopted the draft resolution, entitled 
“Programme  Planning”,  without  a  vote.  May  I  take  it 
that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 69/17).
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
113.
Agenda items 117 and 118
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
The  President:  For  more  than  two  decades, 
this  body  has  considered  the  agenda  item  entitled 
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly” 
as  an  integral  part  of  its  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
Organization  as  a  whole.  Although  the  world  has 
drastically changed from what it was almost 70 years 
ago,  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  chief 
deliberative body and representative organ of the United 
Nations, has remained central. We are now at a defining 
moment as we deliberate this item. We are reaching the 
target date for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals,  which  will  be  succeeded  by  the  sustainable 
development goals, currently being formulated, as key 
components of the post-2015 development agenda. As 
we pursue this agenda, it is essential that we continue 
giving urgent attention to enhancing the role, authority, 
effectiveness and efficiency of the General Assembly. 
That is one of the priorities I have laid out during this 
session.
Resolution 68/307, of 10 September 2014, established 
an  ad  hoc  working  group  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  resolution  called 
for the Working Group to be open to all Member States 
and
“To  identify  further  ways  to  enhance  the 
role, authority, effectiveness and efficiency of the 
Assembly,  inter  alia,  by  building  on  the  progress 
achieved  in  past  sessions  as  well  as  on  previous 
resolutions, including evaluating the status of their 
implementation” (resolution 68/307, para. 3 (a)).
I  thank  Ambassador  František  Ružička,  Permanent 
Representative of Slovakia, and Ambassador Norachit 
Sinhaseni,  Permanent  Representative  of  Thailand, 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly, for 
their leadership and the work done during the previous 
session.
Through the four clusters, the Working Group has 
made efforts to explore how best to enhance the voice 
and  impact  of  the  Assembly,  in  line  with  its  mandate 
and the realities of today’s world. Let me recall some 
highlights of that work.
this  body  be 
implemented  and 
The first cluster relates to the role and authority of 
the General Assembly. It is essential that the resolutions 
adopted  by 
that 
cooperation  between  the  Assembly  and  the  principle 
organs of the United Nations be continuously pursued. 
I  intend  to  strengthen  that  cooperation,  coordination 
and  exchange  of  information  with  the  other  principle 
organs, and also with the Secretariat and, in particular, 
the Secretary-General.
I  welcome  the  progress  made  in  improving  the 
working  methods  of  the  Assembly  and  its  Main 
Committees — the second cluster of our revitalization 
agenda. We have to maintain that steadfastness, as the 
efficient  and  coherent  work  of  the  Committees  has 
far-reaching  impact,  particularly  in  the  Assembly’s 
ability  to  make  timely  and  meaningful  decisions. 
By  rationalizing  our  agenda  and  making  it  more 
6/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
focused we also enhance the quality and impact of the 
consideration  of  topics,  while  reflecting  the  priorities 
of Member States.
We should preserve the integrity and eminence of 
the general debate. An important lesson from the general 
debate heard this year is that we need to rationalize the 
number of meetings and side events held on the margins 
of  the  general  debate  so  as  to  enable  greater  focus 
on  the  matters  being  discussed  in  the  Hall  by  world 
leaders. During this session, I will convene high-level 
meetings  and  thematic  debates  on  current  issues  of 
critical importance to the international community. In 
my previous statements at the Assembly, I outlined the 
specific meetings and events. I will continue to consult 
with the General Committee and Member States on the 
preliminary  programme  of  those  debates,  as  well  as 
on  the  possibilities  for  achieving  results-oriented  and 
productive outcomes from them.
I wish to note the important and tangible outcome 
of the scheduling of early elections for members of the 
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. 
Beginning  with  the  seventieth  session,  elections  to 
these  organs  will  take  place  six  months  before  the 
elected States assume their responsibilities.
I  also  note  that  work  has  been  progressing 
with  regard  to  the  third  cluster,  on  the  selection  and 
appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  and  of  other 
executive  heads.  That  is  consistent  with  resolution 
68/307, which, inter alia, re-emphasizes the need for the 
Secretary-General’s selection process to be transparent 
and  inclusive,  in  accordance  with  Article  97  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The fourth, and final, cluster — strengthening the 
institutional memory of the Office of the President of 
the  General  Assembly  —  will  also  play  an  important 
role  in  reinvigorating  the  Assembly.  I  commend  the 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-eighth session for 
facilitating transition and continuity in the Office of the 
President of the General Assembly. I also recognize the 
vital support provided by the Secretariat, in particular 
the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management.  In  the  coming  period,  I  look  forward 
to  briefing  Member  States  on  my  Office’s  activities 
against the backdrop of an increased workload. I thank 
Member States for their continued support to the Office 
of the President of the General Assembly.
I  will  actively  involve  Member  States  in  the 
work  of  the  Assembly.  During  the  last  few  weeks,  I 
appointed Chairs and facilitators for different items of 
our work agenda. In that regard, I thank Ambassador 
Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia, and Ambassador Wilfried Emvula, Permanent 
Representative of Namibia, for agreeing to serve as the 
new  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
I call on all Member States to support their efforts to 
advance the agenda of the Ad Hoc Working Group.
Finally, I wish to reiterate that the revitalization of 
the work of the Assembly will remain a priority during 
this session. I look forward to the Assembly’s collective 
support and contribution.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
At  the  outset,  the  gratitude  of  NAM  members 
goes  out  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  František  Ružička, 
Permanent Representative of Slovakia, and to our friend 
Mr.  Norachit  Sinhaseni,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Thailand,  for  their  tireless  efforts  and  excellent  work 
in  co-chairing  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly 
during  the  sixty-eighth  session.  I  would  also  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Wilfried  I.  Emvula,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Namibia,  and  Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Croatia,  for  their  appointment  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during  the 
sixty-ninth session and to wish them every success.
I would like to remind the General Assembly that 
NAM welcomed the adoption of the resolution 68/307 
in  September,  by  which  the  Assembly  established  the 
Ad Hoc Working Group to discuss issues related to the 
revitalization of the General Assembly during the this 
session.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  underlines  that 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
is  a  political  process,  rather  than  a  procedural  one, 
that  aims  mainly  at  strengthening  the  role  of  the 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative  policymaking  and 
representative organ of the Organization in the broader 
United  Nations  system.  The  process  should  therefore 
be conducted in an inclusive, transparent and efficient 
manner. Hence, the Movement reiterates the importance 
of the revitalization of the General Assembly as an item 
that  deserves  consideration  on  an  equal  footing  with 
other  reform  processes  and  important  topics  of  the 
United Nations.
We  wish  to  reaffirm  the  role  and  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  including  on  questions 
14-63492
7/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
related  to  international  peace  and  security,  and  its 
intergovernmental, inclusive and democratic character, 
which have immensely contributed to the promotion of 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the goals of the Organization. Our group 
reaffirms  as  well  the  intergovernmental  nature  of  the 
United Nations as such and draws attention to the need 
to consult with Members States on the initiatives and 
activities  undertaken  within  the  Organization  and  to 
the right of all Member States to express their positions 
before the General Assembly at any time they wish to 
do so.
The  General  Assembly,  as 
the  policymaking 
organ  of  the  Organization,  holds  the  authority  and 
the  essential  role  of  drawing  the  framework,  setting 
the  principles  and  identifying  the  objectives  for  the 
wider United Nations system and its numerous organs, 
agencies and programmes. Furthermore, the Assembly 
should remain the principal organ that reviews the work 
of all its subsidiary organs and bodies.
The General Assembly should also maintain its role 
and mandate in setting the priorities of the United Nations 
in considering all budgetary and administrative issues 
and reforms, including its absolute authority to allocate 
and  reallocate  financial  and  human  resources  and  in 
the  appointment  of  senior  officials  of  the  Secretariat, 
in  accordance  with  the  Charter  and  relevant  General 
Assembly resolutions. In that regard, the prerogatives 
of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief  oversight  organ 
of  the  Organization,  including  on  management  and 
procurement  for  peacekeeping  operations,  must  be 
respected.
While  expressing  its  readiness  to  continue  to 
support  all  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen  the  central 
role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly,  NAM  wishes  to 
state that it will not accept any approach that seeks to 
undermine or minimize the achievements of the General 
Assembly, diminish its current role and functioning or 
raise questions about its relevance and credibility.
The  Movement  recalls  the  decision  taken  in 
paragraph  4  of  resolution  68/307  requesting  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  to  continue  the  process  of  the 
comprehensive review of the inventory on the status of 
implementation of the resolutions on the revitalization 
of the General Assembly and to issue an updated version. 
NAM  also  recalls  that  in  paragraph  5  of  the  same 
resolution the Secretary-General is requested to submit 
an update on the related provisions that have not been 
implemented,  with  an  indication  as  to  the  constraints 
and reasons behind the lack of implementation.
Furthermore, the group believes firmly, as set out in 
paragraph 7 of the resolution, that the implementation of 
General Assembly resolutions, including those related 
to  the  revitalization  of  its  work,  enhances  the  role, 
authority, effectiveness and efficiency of the Assembly, 
and underlines the important role and responsibility of 
Member States in their full implementation.
Obviously, political will is indeed key to ensuring 
the effective implementation of the resolutions adopted 
by the General Assembly. In that regard, NAM welcomes 
the decision to issue the updated inventory chart of the 
Assembly’s resolutions on revitalization,  to be annexed 
to the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group submitted 
to  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  The  annex 
will  provide  Member  States  with  an  opportunity  to 
assess the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the previous resolutions since the sixty-third session.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  say 
that  NAM  emphasizes  the  need  to  fully  respect  the 
functions  and  powers  of  each  principal  organ  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly, 
and to maintain the balance among the organs within 
their  respective  Charter-based  functions  and  powers. 
In that regard, the Security Council must fully observe 
all Charter provisions, as well as all General Assembly 
resolutions that clarify the Council’s relationship with 
the Assembly and other principal organs.
In that context, NAM again expresses its concern, 
raised  during  previous  sessions,  with  regard  to  the 
continuous attempt by the Security Council to encroach 
upon  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the  General 
Assembly.  In  fact,  Article  24,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
Charter  does  not  provide  the  Security  Council  with 
the  competence  to  address  issues  that  fall  within  the 
functions and powers of the General Assembly and the 
Economic and Social Council. In the same vein, NAM 
reiterates its request to the Security Council to submit a 
more explanatory, comprehensive and analytical annual 
report to the General Assembly, assessing the work of 
the Council, including in such cases where the Council 
has failed to act.
Furthermore,  in  resolutions  58/126,  59/313  and 
60/286,  annex,  paragraph  7,  the  General  Assembly 
invited  the  Security  Council  to  submit  periodically, 
in accordance with Articles 15 and 24 of the Charter, 
special  subject-oriented 
the  General 
reports 
to 
8/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
Assembly  for  its  consideration  on  issues  of  current 
international concern. Since the adoption of resolution 
58/126,  no  special  subject-oriented  reports  have  been 
formally  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly.  The 
special subjects are to some extent covered only by the 
monthly assessments presented by the Presidents of the 
Security Council.
Moreover,  NAM  is  convinced  that  activities  of 
the  Special  Committee  on  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  on  the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the 
Organization  will  contribute  greatly  to  the  whole 
process  of  revitalization.  NAM  supports  in  particular 
the  two  proposals  that  are  discussed  by  the  Special 
Committee:  first,  the  creation  of  an  open-ended 
working  group  to  study  the  proper  implementation  of 
the Charter with respect to the functional relationship 
of  its  organs,  and  second,  the  working  paper  on  the 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Organization  and 
enhancing its effectiveness.
Among  other  prerogatives  and  mandates  of  the 
General  Assembly,  there  is  the  issue  of  the  selection 
and appointment of Secretaries-General of the United 
Nations. NAM attaches the utmost importance to that 
question.  NAM  reaffirms  the  need  for  the  selection 
of  the  Secretary-General  to  be  more  transparent  and 
inclusive of all Member States. NAM deplores that up 
to  now  no  consultations on  the  appointment of a new 
Secretary-General have ever taken place, as reflected in 
the updated inventory chart annexed to the report of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group.  The  Movement  emphasizes, 
therefore,  the  necessity  that  the  participation  of  the 
General Assembly in the selection and the appointment 
of  future  Secretaries-General  should  be  more  active, 
effective and efficient, in conformity with the Charter 
and rules of procedures of the General Assembly and 
in accordance with the provisions of resolutions 51/241, 
60/286, 64/301, 66/294, 67/297 and 68/307.
importance  of 
full 
implementation of the aforementioned resolutions in the 
immediate next process of selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General.  In  the  run-up  to  the  selection 
and  appointment  of 
the  next  Secretary-General, 
which  is  expected  to  take  place  in  two  years,  NAM 
encourages the holding of timely hearings or meetings 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  an  exchange  of  views 
and  dialogue  with  candidates  running  for  the  post  of 
Secretary-General. NAM also encourages the President 
of the General Assembly to play a proactive role in that 
process.
the 
NAM  stresses 
the 
The  Movement  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
ensuring the effectiveness of the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  including  through  the 
strengthening of its institutional memory. While noting 
with appreciation the progress already achieved in that 
regard, we are of the view that a particular effort should 
be devoted to the implementation of existing resolutions 
on  the  matter,  as  well  as  to  identifying,  during  the 
upcoming discussions of the Working Group, ways and 
means to pursue that objective progressively and with 
determination.
It is clear that while the prerogatives of the President 
of the General Assembly have not changed, his role and 
his activities have evolved over the past years, both in 
adapting  to  the  growing  activities,  conferences  and 
initiatives of the Assembly and in performing official 
protocol  functions  in  representing  the  Assembly  all 
over the world and making the Assembly’s work more 
known  and  more  visible.  Thus,  the  activities  of  the 
Office of the President have increased drastically over 
the years. 
The  agenda  of  the  Assembly,  and  consequently 
that of its President, includes a tremendous number of 
issues.  The  expansion  in  the  activities  of  the  General 
Assembly, including the yearly adoption of nearly 300 
resolutions and decisions, the establishment of working 
groups and the appointment of facilitators who convene 
meetings  and  consultations  throughout  the  year  have 
made the presence of the President and his or her active 
participation  necessary  during  the  entire  session. 
Moreover,  the  Assembly’s  workload  is  no  longer 
limited to its main session, but rather covers the whole 
period from the opening of the session in September to 
its  closing  the  following  September.  Those  enormous 
increasing activities should of course be matched with 
all the necessary resources, both human and financial.
Hence,  in  order  to  provide  further  insight  on  the 
diversity and complexity of the activities and duties of 
the President, NAM recalls the request of Member States 
addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  the  sixty-eighth  session,  in  cooperation  with  the 
Secretariat, to report to the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the role, mandate and activities of the President.
In  the  same  spirit,  the  Movement  seeks  more 
clarification  regarding  the  budgetary  basis  for  the 
provision by the Secretariat of sources of the funding and 
staffing of the Office of the President of the Assembly, 
as stipulated in paragraph 35 of resolution 68/307. The 
14-63492
9/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
Movement recalls, in that regard, that resolution 68/307 
requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals, in 
the context of the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2016-2017, to review the budget allocation to 
the Office of the President.
In conclusion, NAM reaffirms that a reinvigorated 
General Assembly, in a more responsive environment, 
exerting fully its role and authority, would significantly 
contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  the  wider  United 
Nations  system  and 
international 
governance and enhancing multilateralism.
improving 
to 
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Van Den Akker (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and 
its member States. The candidate countries Turkey, the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia and Albania, the country of the Stabilization and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, as well as the Republic of Moldova, 
Armenia  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
I would like to thank the previous co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the General 
Assembly,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Slovakia 
and Thailand, for the excellent work done. I would also 
like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
his  appointment  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia and the Permanent Representative of Namibia 
to serve as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  wish 
them success and express our support.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
strongly attached to effective multilateralism with the 
United Nations at its core. The strengthening the United 
Nations, based on effective and sustainable funding in 
line  with  the  real  capacity  to  pay,  and  increasing  the 
efficiency  of  its  functioning,  on  which  there  is  scope 
to do more, remain our top priorities. In that context, 
we  continue  to  be  committed  to  revitalization  and  to 
supporting efforts aimed at strengthening the role and 
authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  line  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions.
Indeed,  we  wish  that  the  General  Assembly, 
as  the  only  intergovernmental  body  with  universal 
membership  and  given  its  broad  mandate  with  far-
reaching responsibilities, would be able to take up the 
challenge of conciliating legitimacy and efficiency in a 
context of emerging global challenges. At the same time, 
we wish to reiterate that it is imperative that concrete 
steps  be  taken  at  all  levels  to  spend  more  wisely,  to 
deliver in new ways and to ensure that the Organization 
lives  within  the  agreed  budget  levels.  That  applies  to 
all activities of the United Nations, from peacekeeping 
to  construction  to  the  regular  budget.  An  unceasing 
effort to find new and creative ways to work is essential 
to achieve a more effective delivery on mandates and 
sustainable use of resources.
We believe that revitalization can be ensured only 
when  the  General  Assembly  takes  relevant  action 
on  issues  of  common  concern  to  the  international 
community and produces results. By doing so, it lives 
up  to  its  role  as  one  of  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  European  Union  and  its  member 
States welcome the adoption of resolution 68/307, with 
important  provisions  such  as  earlier  election  of  the 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  and 
the members of the Economic and Social Council. We 
welcome  the  reiteration  of  the  interim  arrangement 
on  the  rotation  pattern  of  the  Chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees, adopted in decision 68/505 in connection 
with  guidelines  for  future  arrangements  contained  in 
the annex to resolution 68/307. 
Also,  we  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
the  implementation  of  all  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly,  including  on  the  revitalization  of  its  work, 
and  to  note  its  impact  on  the  Assembly’s  authority, 
effectiveness  and  efficiency.  The  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  is  clearly  interlinked 
with the overall reform of the United Nations.
The  General  Assembly  revitalization  process 
has  already  led  to  positive  developments  such  as  the 
thematic  debates,  which  facilitate  more 
in-depth 
discussions  on  current  issues  of  critical  importance 
to  the  international  community.  The  European  Union 
and its member States especially value the interactive 
character of thematic debates, which allows for closer 
engagement by the Assembly with other stakeholders, 
international  and  regional  organizations  and  groups 
outside the United Nations system. We look forward to 
the continuation of that practice and invite the President 
of the General Assembly to consult with Member States 
on the possibilities, where appropriate, in the spirit of 
partnerships, engaging a broad range of stakeholders and 
achieving  results-oriented  outcomes  in  such  debates. 
We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  the  interaction 
10/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
between  the  General  Assembly  and  international  and 
regional forums and organizations dealing with global 
matters of concern to the international community, as 
well as the benefits to be drawn from such interaction.
We appreciate the continued practice of convening 
periodic  informal  briefings  by  the  Secretary-General 
on  his  priorities,  travels  and  most  recent  activities, 
including  his  participation  in  international  meetings 
and  events  organized  outside  the  United  Nations,  and 
we encourage him to continue that practice.
As  to  the  relationship  of  the  General  Assembly 
with  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  European  Union  and  its  member  States  believe 
that  improving  transparency  and  cooperation  remain 
important  goals.  The  Assembly  should  benefit  from 
information about the meetings between the Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and 
the Economic and Social Council, as well as with the 
chairs  of  subsidiary  bodies.  Periodic  briefings  by  the 
Assembly President on his recent activities, including 
official travels, continue to be an appreciated practice 
and are a valuable source of information.
On  the  issue  of  working  methods,  we  wish  to 
recall the need to consider and take steps towards the 
rationalization of the agenda of the General Assembly 
and  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  a  view 
to  eliminating  duplication  and  overlap  and  promoting 
complementarity  in  the  consideration  and  negotiation 
of similar and related issues. 
In that context, it is important to point out resolution 
68/1. We are of the opinion that it would be appropriate 
to examine further biennialization and triennialization 
of  certain  items,  as  well  as  their  clustering  or 
elimination,  including  through  the  introduction  of  a 
sunset clause, with the clear consent of the sponsoring 
State  or  States.  In  that  regard,  the  leadership  of  the 
Chairs and the Bureaus of the Main Committees is of 
particular importance. We look forward to the briefings 
to the Ad Hoc Working Group on working methods by 
the Chairs of the Main Committees. Although each of 
the  Main  Committees  has  its  own  authority  over  the 
rules  of  procedure,  we  believe  that  streamlining  and 
standardizing  some  should  lead  to  the  more  efficient 
work by the Committees. 
We  would  like  to  stress  as  well  the  importance 
of  making  full  use  of  e-services  provided  by  the 
Secretariat. The widespread use by Main Committees 
and Member States alike of such e-services, including 
the  PaperSmart  portal,  has  had  a  positive  impact  on 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  its  main 
session, while it has also saved a considerable amount 
of resources, energy and paper. We have to continue to 
work in that direction.
We look forward to the active roles of the Secretary-
General,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
including  in  his  capacity  as  the  Chair  of  the  General 
Committee,  and  the  Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees, 
in  consultation  with  Member  States,  in  enhancing 
the  coordination  of  the  scheduling  of  high-level 
meetings with the view to optimizing their number and 
distribution throughout the year, while bearing in mind 
the need to preserve the integrity of the general debate. 
We  believe  that  the  General  Committee  could  play  a 
useful role in the process.
Finally,  let  me  emphasize  the  important  role  that 
the Ad Hoc Working Group plays in the revitalization 
of the work of General Assembly. I would like to assure 
the Assembly that the European Union and its member 
States will continue to engage in a constructive manner 
in the proceedings of the Ad Hoc Working Group. We 
look forward to receiving a workplan soon.
Mr.  Tuy  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  before  I 
deliver a statement on behalf of the member States of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
allow me to say a few words on the issue of the list of 
speakers. 
I  would 
like 
to  draw  your  kind  attention, 
Mr.  President,  to  the  matter  of  the  order  of  speakers. 
ASEAN member States have considered paragraph 1 (b) 
to the annex of resolution 65/276, on the participation of 
the European Union in the work of the United Nations. 
It  states  that  the  observer  of  the  European  Union,  in 
order to present the position of the European Union and 
its member States as agreed by them, shall be invited 
to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly in accordance with the order of precedence 
as  established 
for  participating 
observers  and  their  level  of  participation.  In  keeping 
to the letter and spirit of resolution 65/276, the member 
States of ASEAN are therefore of the opinion that the 
European Union delegation, in its capacity as observer, 
should  speak  after  all  regional  and  major  groupings 
that  are  represented  by  States,  unless  the  European 
Union is also represented by a Member State. That is 
a  principled  application  of  resolution  65/276.  Hence, 
ASEAN requests that an ASEAN member State, when 
speaking on behalf of the grouping, should speak before 
the  practice 
in 
14-63492
11/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
the European Union if the latter is represented by the 
European Union delegation.
Turning to agenda item 118, on the revitalization of 
the work of the General Assembly, let me express our 
appreciation to the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly, Ambassador František Ružička of Slovakia 
and  Ambassador  Norachit  Sinhaseni  of  Thailand,  for 
their  stewardship  in  facilitating  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-eighth  session. 
We  are  pleased  by  the  progress  made  under  their 
co-chairmanship.  We  are  also  pleased  that  resolution 
68/307  was  adopted  by  consensus  on  10  September 
2014. Let me also take this opportunity to express our 
appreciation to His Excellency Mr. John Ashe, President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session, 
for  his  selection  of  the  co-Chairs  and  the  importance 
he  accorded  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly.  We  welcome  the  opening  address 
by Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa, President of the General 
Assembly at its current session, on 16 September 2014 
(see A/69/PV.1), in which he highlighted his priorities, 
including the continued focus on both the revitalization 
of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security 
Council.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the  new 
Co-chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group appointed by 
Mr. Kutesa.
Next  year  we  will  celebrate 
the  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations. That special occasion 
provides us with a unique opportunity to reinvigorate 
the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  should  take 
advantage of that opportunity not only to celebrate the 
achievements of the United Nations over the past seven 
decades, but also to contemplate a fresh approach to the 
reform of the Organization in order to enable it to more 
effectively respond to the needs of Member States and 
to address both current and future challenges. 
One  critical  component  of  that  reform  is  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which  is  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  me 
highlight some of the key issues that we believe deserve 
special consideration in the sixty-ninth session.
establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Community.  As  one  of 
the  most  successful  regional  organizations,  ASEAN 
looks forward to interacting with all international and 
regional forums to address issues of common interest 
and concern. I hope that concrete measures and actions 
will  be  taken  to  follow  up  on  the  important  directive 
given by the General Assembly.
Secondly,  we  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s 
decision, beginning with the seventieth session, to hold 
the election for non-permanent members of the Security 
Council  and  members  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  approximately  six  months  before  the  elected 
members  assume  their  responsibilities.  We  hope  that 
the elected members, especially those from small and 
medium-sized developing countries, will thereby have 
more time to prepare for their new responsibilities. We 
particularly hope that the earlier election will provide 
an  earlier  opportunity  for  the  elected  non-permanent 
members to observe Security Council meetings.
respect 
to 
Thirdly,  with 
the  selection  and 
appointment of the Secretary-General, we welcome the 
reaffirmation  in  resolution  68/307  that  the  process  of 
selecting and appointing the Secretary-General differs 
from that used for other executive heads in the United 
Nations  system,  given  the  important  and  unique  role 
of  the  Secretary-General.  We  appreciate  the  common 
call  by  a  number  of  Member  States  for  the  selection 
process to be improved without amending the Charter. 
For  example,  convening  hearings  or  meetings  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  an  exchange  of  views  with 
candidates  could  help  to  make  the  selection  process 
more inclusive, transparent, interactive and credible. 
We hope that concrete improvement will be agreed 
upon in the Ad Hoc Working Group during the sixty-
ninth  session  so  that  it  can  be  implemented  at  the 
seventieth session, well in time for the selection of the 
next Secretary-General, which is expected to take place 
in 2016. We also hope that the President of the General 
Assembly  will  play  an  active  role  in  that  process  in 
accordance  with  the  role  accorded  to  him  or  her  by 
the  relevant  resolutions,  while  at  the  same  time  fully 
respecting the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
First, we welcome the reaffirmation, in accordance 
with  resolution  68/307,  of  the  importance  and  benefit 
of continued interaction between the General Assembly 
and  international  and  regional  forums.  The  year 
2015  is  special  not  only  for  the  United  Nations  but 
also  for  ASEAN,  which  next  year  will  celebrate  the 
Last  but  not  least,  we  hope  to  see  further 
strengthening  of  the  institutional  memory  of  the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
are  pleased  that  the  Assembly,  in  resolution  68/307, 
repeated its request to the Secretary-General to submit, 
in  the  context  of  the  proposed  programme  budget  for 
12/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
the biennium 2016-2017, proposals to review the budget 
allocation to the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly in accordance with existing procedures.
It  is  important  to  note  that  a  number  of  Member 
States  have  continually  called  for  an  increase  in  the 
budget allocation to the Office of the President of the 
General  Assembly,  which  has  remained  unchanged 
since 1998. With only minor adjustments for inflation, 
that salary currently stands at $300,000. As one of the 
most  important  multilateral  posts,  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly, no matter which country holds 
that  important  office,  should  not  be  under  financial 
constraints.  We  therefore  hope  that  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposals  will  be  submitted  and  considered 
in the preparation for the next biennium.
Before  concluding,  let  me  repeat  the  words  of 
Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  that  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba 
Kutesa cited in his opening address to the Assembly: 
“Everything that is done in the world is done by hope.” 
I  have  expressed  our  hopes,  on  behalf  of  ASEAN 
member States, and wish to assure the Assembly of the 
Association’s continued commitment to constructively 
engage  in  the  deliberations  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group during the sixty-ninth session, with the aim of 
achieving  concrete  outcomes  for  the  revitalization  of 
the work of the Assembly on the eve of its seventieth 
anniversary.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan): Pakistan associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
We  commend 
the  efforts  of 
The  General  Assembly,  despite 
the  Permanent 
Representatives of Slovakia and Thailand as co-Chairs 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  sixty-
eighth  session.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the 
Permanent Representatives of Namibia and Croatia as 
they lead our efforts to revitalize the General Assembly.
its  perceived 
operational  inaction,  has  been  working  diligently  on 
its mandated tasks. The finalization of the sustainable 
development  goals  and  the  creation  of  the  high-
level  political  forum  on  sustainable  development  are 
examples of its recent successes. Leadership on issues 
like  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  sustainable 
development, human rights and women’s empowerment 
and  the  creation  of  new  architecture  such  as  the 
Human Rights Council and UN-Women, testify to the 
normative  and  substantive  vitality  and  creativity  of 
the  General  Assembly  over  the  past  decade.  The  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  itself  has  succeeded  in  bringing 
forward  elections  for  the  members  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council and the non-permanent member of 
the Security Council to six months before the start of 
their terms. This will help the newly elected members 
prepare and contribute in a better way.
The  roles  and  mandates  of  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council have been defined clearly by 
the Charter of the United Nations. Instead of a discourse 
focused  on  contradictions  and  encroachments,  we 
should  look  at  areas  of  convergence  so  that  the  two 
bodies  can  work  harmoniously  in  a  shared  space  to 
advance  our  common  agenda.  The  Charter  provides 
enormous  space  to  the  General  Assembly  to  play  its 
role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, economic development and the promotion and 
protection of human rights. The Assembly should use 
that space in an optimal manner. It has a leadership role 
to play on peacekeeping by using the full potential of 
the  Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations. 
From time to time, resorting to the Uniting for Peace 
mechanism  would  enable  the  Assembly  to  leave  its 
indelible imprint on international peace and stability.
In  this  millennium,  the  General  Assembly  would 
play a landmark and seminal role by crafting the post-
2015  development  agenda,  which  would  contribute 
directly to the alleviation of poverty, the empowerment 
of  the  marginalized  men,  women  and  children  of  the 
world,  promoting  equality,  and  stimulating  economic 
growth  and  development.  The 
implementation  of 
the  agenda  would  put  the  Assembly  at  the  centre  of 
decision-making  processes  and  enhance  its  structures 
and  stature.  In  addition, 
the 
responsibility  to  deliver  on  sustainable  development 
in  partnership  with  the  high-level  political  forum  on 
sustainable development and the Economic and Social 
Council.
the  Assembly  has 
The Security Council, for its part, while taking up 
thematic issues, such as climate change, sexual violence 
in  armed  conflict,  women  and  children’s  rights  and 
peacebuilding, should work in close partnership with the 
relevant intergovernmental forums and organizations.
Two-way communication between the Council and 
the Assembly should not remain symbolic and cosmetic 
but  should  become  substantive  and  consequential. 
Small  steps  could  improve  communication  between 
the two bodies. These include making the largely pro 
forma monthly meetings between the Presidents of the 
14-63492
13/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
General  Assembly  and  the  Council  more  substantive 
by  discussing  collaboration,  based  on  the  agendas 
of  the  two  bodies;  making  the  annual  reports  of  the 
Council to the Assembly more analytical and allowing 
the  Assembly’s  views  to  feed  back  into  the  Council’s 
work; and by having better scrutiny and evaluation of 
Council’s work by the general membership. 
Lastly, 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group, 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  the  General  Assembly  itself  should  work 
with  the  Security  Council  and  its  Informal  Working 
Group  on  Documentation  and  Other  Procedural 
Questions to refine and improve the Security Council’s 
working  methods  to  make  it  more  accountable  and 
transparent for the general membership.
Security Council reform is an historic opportunity 
for  the  General  Assembly.  This  time,  we  should  get 
the  reform  process  right.  It  should  not  be  a  partial 
and  lopsided  reform,  focusing  on  increasing  the 
membership,  especially  permanent  seats.  The  reform 
has  to  focus  on  increasing  representation,  as  well  as 
on  other  equally  important  matters  —  the  veto,  size 
and working methods, regional representation and the 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council.
The  General  Assembly  should  not  allow  the 
creation of new permanent seats because that would be 
a  negation  of  its  own  democratic  character.  It  should 
pursue the principle of the greatest good of the greatest 
number by ensuring that all Member States — small, 
medium-sized and large — that make up the family of 
the  United  Nations  are  adequately  and  appropriately 
represented  in  the  reformed  Council.  Council  reform 
should  reflect  the  aspirations  and  interests  of  all,  not 
the ambitions of a few.
The faithful implementation of General Assembly 
resolutions  and  decisions  requires 
two  essential 
conditions:  the  critical  political  will  of  Member 
States  and  adequate  resources.  Appropriate  measures 
should be taken to avoid the selective implementation 
of  resolutions,  by  design  or  by  default.  Updating  the 
inventory  of  resolutions  is  a  good  practice,  and  the 
Secretariat  has  done  a  good  job  in  this  regard.  The 
mechanism  should,  however,  be  further  improved 
by 
for 
non-implementation or delay. The Secretariat may also 
explore the establishment of a unit to track instances of 
non-implementation.
information  on 
including 
the 
reasons 
As we move towards the selection of the Secretary-
General  in  2016,  a  major  challenge  will  be  to  meet 
the  expectations  of  Member  States  with  regard  to  the 
transparency and inclusiveness of the process. The Ad 
Hoc Working Group should pursue this as an important 
objective this year.
Finally,  the  United  Nations  is  the  sum  of  its 
Member  States.  The  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  faithful  implementation  of  its 
decisions and resolutions would act as force multiplier 
in empowering the United Nations to resolve difficult 
issues of peace and security, development and human 
rights. We are glad that a statesman of your stature and 
wisdom, Mr. President, will lead our efforts during this 
momentous year.
Mr.  Minami  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to thank you, Mr. President, for your initiative on the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Like the other delegations, I would also like to extend 
my  sincere  gratitude  to  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly during the previous session, the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Slovakia  and  Thailand, 
and  welcome  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia  as  the  new 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during  the 
current session.
Both in your acceptance speech (see A/68/PV.93) in 
June and in your speech at the opening of the Assembly’s 
sixty-ninth  session  (see  A/69/PV.1)  in  September, 
Mr.  President,  you  emphasized  the  importance  of 
revitalizing  the  General  Assembly.  Japan  completely 
shares your views. Revitalizing the General Assembly 
and  Security  Council  reform  are  crucial  components 
of  the  reform  agenda.  We  must  make  steady  progress 
towards achieving feasible and realistic results on this 
item.
In  this  context,  Japan  welcomes  the  adoption 
of  resolution  68/307  during  the  previous  session. 
In  particular,  the  decision  to  hold  the  elections  for 
members of the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social Council earlier is highly regarded. We believe it 
will definitely resolve the legitimate concerns of newly 
elected  members.  It  is  also  an  achievement  that  the 
resolution says the General Assembly decides to reiterate 
the interim arrangement recommending the pattern for 
the rotation of the Chairs of the Main Committees from 
the sixty-ninth to the seventy-third sessions.
14/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
It is true that in previous sessions we made some 
achievements  regarding  the  revitalization  of  the  work 
of the General Assembly. However, much more has to 
be  done  and  much  more  effort  is  needed.  Enhancing 
fairness in the management of this United Nations body 
remains an important aspect for discussion. We argued 
last  year  during  this  same  occasion  that  the  speakers 
list  during  the  high-level  week  should  more  closely 
reflect reality. Countries like mine, Japan, in which the 
Head of State plays a ceremonial role and the Head of 
Government has the highest political mandate, should 
be  dealt  with  as  such.  It  is  appreciated  that  this  year 
the  Assembly  has  reflected  on  our  argument  to  some 
extent.
We would also like to stress the importance of strict 
adherence  to  time  restraints  for  each  speaker.  In  this 
regard,  it  is  highly  appreciated  that  President  Kutesa 
starts  each  meeting  on  time.  The  General  Assembly 
needs  to  continue  discussions  to  achieve  disciplined 
management.
The  rationalization  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
work is an urgent challenge. As the amount of tasks in 
the Assembly has increased, agenda prioritization has 
been indispensable. By sorting through more than 170 
agenda  items,  as  well  as  through  the  biennialization 
and triennialization of agenda items that are currently 
being discussed every year, the work of the Assembly 
should be rationalized. However, the process still has a 
long way to go. For instance, late-night sessions have 
become  more  common  in  some  Main  Committees. 
We  hope  that  such  situations  will  be  improved  upon 
immediately.
The  President’s  strong  initiative  in  hosting  the 
high-level meetings next year is appreciated. In order 
to make these meetings even more high profile, I would 
like  to  suggest  they  be  more  distinct  from  similar 
international  conferences  and  meetings,so  that  senior 
representatives from each capital can attend. 
The importance of exercising the leadership of the 
President of the General Assembly should also be noted. 
Considering United Nations budget restraints, Member 
States should support the activities of the President as 
much as possible.
These  are  some  ideas  Japan  believes  are  worth 
discussing  under  this  agenda  item.  The  revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly  is,  together  with  the  reform 
of the Security Council, an important task that we have 
to  address.  Let  me  finalize  my  statement  by  saying 
that Japan stands ready to contribute in a constructive 
way to the discussions aimed at further enhancing the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the United Nations.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  I  thank  you,  Mr.  President, 
for convening this important meeting. 
At  the  outset,  let  me  to  align  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for 
the  good  work  done  by  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  during  the  previous  session,  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Slovakia and Thailand. I also wish to 
congratulate the Permanent Representatives of Namibia 
and Croatia for their appointments as co-Chairs of the 
Ad Hoc Working Group during the sixty-ninth session 
and wish them success in this endeavour.
We  believe  that  the  issue  of  General  Assembly 
revitalization  has  assumed  particular  significance 
in  recent  years.  This  is  quite  vividly  captured  in  the 
emphasis  which  you,  Mr.  President,  have  placed  on 
United  Nations  reform,  including  the  revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. In your acceptance speech in June, you rightly 
pointed out that,
“Today,  the  world  is  vastly  different  from  what 
it  was  in  1945.  While  the  principles  of  the 
Organization  remain  solid,  the  changing  world 
obliges us to adjust to new and changing realities. 
Central to that is the continued revitalization of the 
General Assembly and the reform of the Security 
Council and other relevant United Nations bodies.” 
(A/68/PV.93, p. 2)
Similarly,  we  also  believe 
that  urgent  and 
comprehensive  United  Nations  reform  is  imperative 
to  make  it  reflective  of  current  geopolitical  realities 
and to enhance its capability to meet the increasingly 
complex  and  pressing  transnational  challenges  of  our 
time.  Those  include  the  issues  of  peace  and  security, 
development,  human  rights,  the  environment  and 
health,  among  others.  We  appreciate  the  importance 
that you, Mr. President, have attached to those issues. 
You can count on India’s support in those endeavours 
of yours.
We believe that the General Assembly will not be 
empowered  merely  by  strengthening  procedures  and 
streamlining  working  methods.  It  will  be  empowered 
14-63492
15/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
only  if  its  position  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policy-
making and representative organ of the United Nations, 
under Article 10 of the Charter of the United Nations, 
is  respected  in  letter  and  in  spirit.  This  requires  that 
the Assembly take the lead in setting the global agenda 
and  restoring  the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations 
in  formulating  multilateral  approaches  to  resolving 
transnational 
revitalization 
must  restore  the  primacy  of  the  United  Nations  in 
development  matters.  We  would  like  to  make  three 
points in this context. 
In  particular, 
issues. 
First, it is critical to address the issue of preventing 
encroachment on the mandate of the General Assembly 
and  making  the  Security  Council  more  responsive 
to  it.  The  Council’s  encroachment  on  issues  that 
traditionally  fall  within  the  Assembly’s  competence 
is of particular concern. The consequent undermining 
of  the  Assembly’s    role  and  authority  needs  to  be 
redressed.  Resorting  to  thematic  debates  and,  of  late, 
resolutions in the Security Council on issues that very 
often fall within the purview of the General Assembly 
or the Economic and Social Council remains an area of 
concern. The balance among the principal organs of the 
United  Nations,  as  stipulated  by  the  Charter,  must  be 
respected and maintained.
Secondly,  the  General  Assembly,  being  the  voice 
of  the  international  community,  must  be  given  a 
greater  say  in  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-General. 
The  continued  circumscribing  of  the  Assembly’s  role 
and responsibilities in the process of the selection and 
appointment of the Secretary-General needs to change. 
This is in the interests of the United Nations system in 
general and the Assembly’s prerogatives in particular. 
Efforts to put in place a more inclusive and transparent 
procedure  for  the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General, consistent with Article 97 of the Charter, need 
to be undertaken without further delay.
Thirdly,  the  Assembly  and  the  other  entities  that 
form  part  of  the  United  Nations  system  must  reflect 
best practices in their day-to-day functioning. This will 
require a review of the way the Assembly conducts its 
business, including, for example, the recently concluded 
elections to the International Court of Justice.
Our  attention  is  also  drawn  to  the  fact  that  the 
report of the Human Rights Council (A/69/53) is being 
debated both in the plenary and the Third Committee. 
Some  delegations  that  spoke  on  this  subject  in  this 
plenary  yesterday,  for  example,  even  as  I  speak  are 
making  the  same  statements  in  the  Third  Committee 
today. This is perhaps not fruitful.
In  our  view,  the  primacy  of  the  Assembly  flows 
from the universality of its membership, as well as the 
diligent  application  of  the  principle  of  the  sovereign 
equality  of  its  members.  Therefore,  ownership,  of  the 
Assembly’s decisions and activities is reflected in the 
degree of the participation by Member States. So, the 
presence of political will on the part of Member States 
to take on concrete measures to reinforce the role and 
authority of the Assembly is of utmost importance.
In  conclusion,  let  me  re-emphasize  the  need  to 
discuss substantive measures that would strengthen the 
role of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative, 
policy-making  and 
the 
international  community.  Members  can  count  on  my 
delegation’s  constructive  support  and  participation  in 
these efforts.
representative  body  of 
Mr.  Iliichev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
today’s  meeting  on 
in 
Russian):  We  welcome 
the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia  on  their 
appointments  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly and wish them every success in their work. 
We note the work of the Permanent Representatives of 
Slovakia  and  Thailand  as  co-Chairs  during  the  sixty-
eighth session.
supports 
The  Russian  Federation 
realistic 
initiatives aimed at improving the effectiveness of the 
General  Assembly’s  work,  on  the  condition  that  we 
remain focused on improving the Assembly’s working 
methods and streamlining its agenda, which is largely 
overburdened.  We  believe  that  it  is  necessary  to 
continue the practice of transferring some agenda items 
from  consideration  on  a  biennial  basis  to  a  triennial 
schedule  and  of  eliminating  items  that  are  no  longer 
relevant.
We  endorse  the  proposals  on  lightening  the  high-
level  week  in  the  framework  of  the  general  debate, 
because during their stay in New York, Heads of State 
and Government, a well as ministers for foreign affairs, 
already have a busy schedule of bilateral meetings. We 
must limit the number of high-level events during that 
period.  The  rest  should  be  carried  out  systematically 
throughout  the  full  Assembly  session.  That  will 
facilitate and improve the efficiency of our work.
16/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  any  reform 
innovations should be based on strict compliance with 
the prerogatives of the principal organs of the United 
Nations, as set out in the Charter of the United Nations. 
In particular, we call for maintaining the current role of 
the General Assembly in the selection and appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General,  pursuant  to  Article  97 
of  the  Charter,  according  to  which  the  Secretary-
General is appointed by the General Assembly on the 
recommendation of the Security Council.
We must carefully consider proposals to strengthen 
the institutional memory of the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly. However, we note that, as with 
any other issue that might have financial implications 
for the regular budget of the United Nations, it should 
be  addressed  in  full  compliance  with  the  generally 
accepted  procedure,  that  is,  in  the  Fifth  Committee 
and  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary Questions.
Mr.  Elhamamy  (Egypt):  Egypt  associates  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  Egypt’s 
appreciation  for  your  decision,  Mr.  President,  to 
include  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly at the top of your priorities during the sixty-
ninth session, and for stressing the need to do more to 
make the Assembly effective and efficient. I seize this 
opportunity to thank the Permanent Representatives of 
Slovakia and Thailand for their efforts in co-chairing 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  sixty-
eighth  session.  Those  efforts  led  to  the  adoption  of 
resolution  68/307,  which  represents  a  strong  basis  for 
the  discussions  during  the  current  session  under  the 
leadership  of  the  newly  appointed  co-facilitators.  We 
pledge  our  full  support  to  them  to  achieve  tangible 
results  in  the  process  of  revitalizing  the  work  of  the 
Assembly.
The  international  community  is  confronted  with 
unprecedented challenges that necessitate a strong and 
responsive  General  Assembly  in  order  to  allow  this 
universal parliament of nations to play its leading role 
in  global  governance  at  the  political,  economic  and 
social levels. Egypt believes that the first step to achieve 
tangible progress in this regard is to implement various 
resolutions  containing  specific  measures  to  revitalize 
the  work  of  the  Assembly  as  the  main  deliberative, 
policymaking and representative principal organ of the 
United Nations.
Furthermore, we think that the main challenge facing 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
is  the  continuous  and  unprecedented  encroachment 
by  the  Security  Council  on  the  Assembly’s  role 
and  functions.  The  Security  Council  is  constantly 
attempting to redefine its scope of competence through 
a wider interpretation of what issues constitute a threat 
to  international  peace  and  security,  including  issues 
that  are  already  under  consideration  in  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The 
Ad Hoc Working Group could identify those areas of 
encroachment and also areas of coordination between 
those 
its  upcoming 
deliberations  –  for  example,  how  to  enhance  the 
coordination  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council in the admission of new Members to 
the United Nations pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 2 
of the Charter.
two  principal  organs  during 
We  stress  that  focusing  only  on  the  procedural 
aspects and working methods of the General Assembly 
will  not  suffice  in  leading  to  the  comprehensive 
improvement of the Assembly’s work that we all aspire 
to.  Ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly is also important to 
improve the Assembly’s  role and authority. We reiterate 
the  need  to  strengthen  the  Office  of  the  President 
through  the  allocation  of  more  human  and  financial 
resources  from  the  regular  budget  for  the  biennium 
2016-2017 in order to allow equal opportunities for all 
Member States to successfully manage the presidency 
of the General Assembly, since voluntary contributions 
tend to involve unpredictable and unreliable financing, 
which has a negative effect on the institutional memory 
of this Office.
Finally,  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General is yet another issue of great interest 
to  the  wider  membership.  We  note  that  the  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-General  will 
take place in 2016. We encourage the President of the 
General  Assembly  to  actively  support  the  process  in 
accordance  with  the  role  accorded  to  him  by  relevant 
resolutions,  taking  into  consideration  Article  97  of 
the  Charter.  Moreover,  we  re-emphasize  the  need  for 
the  selection  process  for  the  Secretary-General  to  be 
transparent  and  inclusive  of  all  Member  States  at  an 
early  stage  when  identifying  candidates  for  this  key 
post.
14-63492
17/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
Tthe  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly 
is  a  critical  component  of  the  overall  reform  of  the 
United Nations. Therefore, it must be treated on equal 
footing  with  other  reform  processes  of  the  United 
Nations  principal  organs  and  should  be  given  greater 
attention and consideration. I would like to assure you, 
Mr. President, of the full support of the delegation of 
my  country  for  all  your  efforts  in  order  to  enhance 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  achieving  peace, 
stability and prosperity for all.
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): Let me begin by thanking 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  important 
debate on the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly.  We  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Ružička 
of  Slovakia  and  Ambassador  Sinhaseni  of  Thailand 
for  their  valuable  leadership  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly and their hard work during the sixty-eighth 
session.
We  also  congratulate 
the  new  co-facilitators, 
Ambassador Drobnjak of Croatia and Ambassador Emvula of 
Namibia. The Indonesian delegation assures them of its 
wholehearted support in their stewardship of the Working 
Group’s work to help realize a General Assembly that can 
become a powerful pivot for achieving a more peaceful 
and prosperous world for all people.
Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement and of Cambodia on behalf of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
As the seventieth anniversary of our United Nations 
approaches next year, this debate and the forthcoming 
sessions  of  the  Working  Group  are  very  important  in 
taking  stock  of  the  revitalization  efforts  thus  far  and 
deliberating  on  how  a  more  robust,  widespread  and 
dedicated undertaking that strengthens the Assembly’s 
functioning can be developed. Certainly, since General 
Assembly revitalization became a distinct agenda item 
in  1991,  and  following  the  2005  World  Summit,  at 
which the Ad Hoc Working Group was formed, much 
important work — with some results — has transpired 
under the Group’s four thematic clusters, for which the 
Group can rightly be proud.
corresponding  influence  on  international  affairs  of 
concern to its membership.
My delegation has participated actively in the Ad 
Hoc Working Group over the years. In the meetings in 
the past session, very important discussions took place 
with the Chairs of the Main Committees on improving 
the  Committees’  working  methods,  deepening  the 
institutional memory of the Office of the President of 
the  General  Assembly,  improving  the  selection  and 
appointment  process  of  the  Secretaries-General  and 
other  United  Nations  executive  heads,  and  enhancing 
the Assembly’s role and authority.
Unquestionably,  Indonesia  stands  for  meaningful 
progress  on  the  aforementioned  issues,  because  our 
domestic stakeholders demand such progress. We will 
continue  to  play  our  role  in  advancing  the  Group’s 
efforts to support the Assembly in assuming its rightful 
place in global affairs in an effective manner. 
However, the Group can only do so much. While its 
meetings and processes, including the inventory chart 
of decisions and actions that accompanies the Group’s 
annual reports, remain highly useful in monitoring and 
orienting  efforts  to  bolster  the  Assembly’s  status,  the 
Assembly’s  revitalization  is  fundamentally  a  political 
process.  It  will  require  significantly  greater  political 
resolve  by  everyone,  with  sincere  implementation  of 
existing Assembly resolutions on revitalization.
Resolution  68/307,  adopted  by  consensus  on 
10  September  2014,  reflects 
the  willingness  of 
the  Member  States  to  reinforce  the  gravity  of  the 
Assembly’s reform and to bolster its functioning as an 
invaluable principal organ of the United Nations. It is 
in that context that we wish to reiterate the importance 
of the General Assembly’s role and scope, in particular 
in  the  realm  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
indeed believe that the Assembly can be more assertive 
in  assuming  its  rightful  role  on  issues  of  peace  and 
security,  which  all  members  need  to  support.  We  are 
concerned  by  the  continuing  shift  to  the  Security 
Council  of  issues  that  traditionally  fall  within  the 
purview of the General Assembly. All Member States, 
in our view, should and must have a stake and a say in 
issues pertaining to international peace and security.
Yet  the  Assembly  has  yet  to  truly  be  the  chief 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative  organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  envisaged  in  the  Charter. 
There  remains  a  gap  in  ensuring  that  the  Assembly 
will indeed be the universal parliament of nations, with 
If  we  work  together  better,  cooperate  more  and, 
most importantly, are ready to exercise our respective 
political principles to empower the General Assembly 
to  fully  perform  its  Charter-mandated  role,  we  have 
no  doubt  that  the  much-sought-after  and  effective 
18/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
revitalization of the Assembly will indeed materialize. 
Indonesia  calls  upon  all  countries  to  display  their 
political will and support the Working Group’s work to 
help attain a General Assembly that is able to optimally 
heed the calls by the entire spectrum of the international 
community  in  all  social,  political,  peace  and  security 
dimensions.
Mr.  Raja  Zaib  Shah  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset, 
allow me to commend the Permanent Representatives of 
Namibia and Croatia on their appointments as co-chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-ninth  session. 
Let me also express my appreciation to Mr. František 
Ružička,  Permanent  Representative  of  Slovakia,  and 
Mr.  Norachit  Sinhaseni,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Thailand, for their stewardship in the discussion in the 
Ad Hoc Working Group during the sixty-eight session.
I  wish  to  align  my  statement  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of Cambodia on behalf 
of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. My 
delegation would like to highlight some pertinent views 
on  this  agenda  item  in  our  collective  pursuit  of  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
Malaysia  has  remained  consistent  in  reiterating 
that  the  General  Assembly  is  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  in  highlighting  the  Asembly’s  role  in 
the  process  of  standard-setting  and  the  codification 
of  international  law.  The  Assembly  represents  193 
Member  States,  and  therefore  we  must  duly  accord  it 
the rightful and authoritative place it deserves. We must 
ensure that the General Assembly continues its role as 
the principal policymaking and norm-setting organ of 
the United Nations.
is 
the 
important  development 
The  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  made  significant 
strides during the sixty-eighth session of the Assembly. 
Malaysia  was  happy  to  see  the  adoption  of  resolution 
68/307, on advancing the work of the Working Group. 
One 
inclusion  of 
paragraph  17  in  the  resolution,  in  which  the  General 
Assembly  has  agreed  to  conduct  the  elections  of  the 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  and 
the  members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
six  months  before  the  elected  members  assume  their 
responsibilities,  beginning  at  the  seventieth  session. 
That  will  allow  new  members  to  plan  ahead  and  to 
increase their missions’ capacity before assuming their 
responsibility and enabling their preparations.
the 
is  still  concerned  with 
While  we  have  made  some  significant  progress, 
lack 
my  delegation 
of 
implementation  of  various  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  That  has  incapacitated  the  Assembly,  as 
it undermines the effectiveness of the body. Malaysia 
appreciates  the  Assembly’s  decision  to  evaluate  the 
status  of  implementation  of  its  resolutions  and  to 
build  on  the  progress  achieved  in  past  sessions.  We 
welcome the decision that the Ad Hoc Working Group 
will continue its review of the inventory of Assembly 
resolutions on revitalization and to update the inventory 
chart annexed to those resolutions. That is the first step 
in realizing the implementation of all General Assembly 
resolutions.
Apart  from  that,  my  delegation  also  believes 
that  we  should  consider  further  deliberations  on  the 
biennialization  and  triennialization  of  resolutions. 
Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  that  would  improve 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  through  a  better 
scheduling of agenda items. We call on those who call 
for  the  biennialization  and  triennialization  of  agenda 
items and resolutions to lead by example. In pursuit of 
that effort, it is vital that the sponsoring State or States 
consent to such measures prior to implementation.
Without  a  doubt,  the  General  Assembly  today 
considers a greater number of agenda items and issues 
than  previously.  The  increasing  number  of  agenda 
items  and  issues  also  means  the  role  and  activities  of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  will  continue 
to increase over the years to come. In that regard, my 
delegation wishes to call for the President to be allocated 
the necessary resources for him or her to perform the 
role entrusted to the Office by the Charter of the United 
Nations. At the same time, Malaysia also welcomes the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s  proposal  to  strengthen  the 
institutional memory of the Office of the President and 
its relationship with the Secretariat.
Malaysia  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  need  for 
transparency  and  inclusiveness  in  the  selection  and 
appointment  of  the  Secretary-General.  The  Secretary-
General  represents  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, and not exclusively Security Council members. 
Therefore,  the  selection  process  for  that  important 
personality  must  respect  the  aspirations  of  Member 
States. We call for the implementation of past resolutions 
on the issue, especially paragraphs 17 to 22 of the annex to 
resolution 60/286, in future selections and appointments 
of the Secretary-General and in view of the selection and 
appointment of the next Secretary-General in 2016.
14-63492
19/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
Malaysia  welcomes  the  convening  of  high-level 
meetings  and  high-level  thematic  debates  on  issues 
that  are  important  to  Member  States.  We  believe  that 
there needs to be greater coordination with all relevant 
parties  in  organizing  such  meetings  so  as  to  avoid  or 
at least minimize scheduling problems for delegations, 
especially  during  the  high-level  week  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  look  forward  to  the  implementation  of 
the proposal to resolve the problem of having too many 
meetings and events during the high-level week, such 
as exploring the possibility of scheduling such meetings 
during the early part of the year.
We  must  take  note  of  the  progress  we  have  made 
thus far in our collective quest to revitalize the General 
Assembly.  Member  States  must  be  reminded  that  the 
work  of  revitalization  of  the  Assembly  is  not  new, 
nor  will  it  end  anytime  soon.  We  must  continue  to 
press on for further deliberations and to maintain the 
momentum  in  order  to  attain  meaningful  progress. 
We  invite  Member  States  to  approach  this  issue  with 
openness and demonstrate the political will necessary 
to enable us to make real substantial progress on further 
enhancing the effectiveness of the General Assembly.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The Cuban delegation aligns itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement and would like to make a few 
additional comments on this topic.
I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly for preparing resolution 
68/307 on this subject and for their efforts to advance 
the process of revitalization of the Assembly. We would 
also like to congratulate the representatives of Namibia 
and Croatia for their appointment as co-Chairs of the 
Ad Hoc Working Group.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
critical element in achieving true reform of the United 
Nations. At the present time, it will not be possible to 
address  the  overall  process  of  United  Nations  reform 
if we do not prioritize the objective of ensuring a more 
democratic  and  effective  Organization  that  has  at  its 
centre  a  General  Assembly  that  fully  exercises  the 
powers assigned to it under the Charter. Cuba has stated 
on  many  occasions  that  this  process  of  revitalization 
should seek to recover and strengthen the Assembly’s 
central  role  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking 
and  representative  body  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
recognized  in  the  Charter  and  numerous  resolutions 
and declarations adopted by the United Nations.
In  the  present  circumstances,  the  goals  of  the 
revitalization  process  should  be  directed  towards 
helping the Assembly strengthen its independence and 
its  nature  as  a  comprehensive  debate  body,  in  which 
the  freedom  of  Member  States  to  consider  matters  of 
interest to them is not restricted or limited. To restore 
the  confidence  of  the  international  community  in  the 
United Nations and its credibility in the global public 
opinion, we should ensure that our Organization truly 
responds to the collective interests of its Member States. 
That can be achieved only if we revitalize the guiding 
role  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  only  organ  of  the 
United Nations where there is no place for hegemony, 
where  everyone  has  a  say  and  a  vote,  and  where  the 
obsolete right to the veto does not exist.
resolutions. 
In  our  opinion, 
The  General  Assembly  has  the  ability,  de  facto 
and  de  jure,  to  consider  crucial  and  urgent  topics 
of  international  reality  in  order  to  adopt  concrete, 
action-oriented 
the 
Organization’s  main  problem  is  precisely  the  lack  of 
implementation  of  the  many  Assembly  resolutions, 
which  constitute  an  important  set  of  standards  but 
are  not  always  applied  because  their  implementation 
depends on the political will of States. That also applies 
to the many resolutions on the very subject of Assembly 
revitalization, the execution of which is unfortunately 
very limited.
Cuba stresses the need to find an appropriate balance 
among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
accordance with the Charter, and to put an end to the 
growing trend of the Security Council to address issues 
that  fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of  General  Assembly 
or  another  principal  organ  of  the  Organization.  The 
Security  Council  should  strictly  observe  the  mandate 
conferred  on  it  by  the  Charter  and  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly in its capacity as a principal organ 
of the United Nations.
The revitalization of the General Assembly cannot 
be  a  bureaucratic  process.  As  Padre  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, of the sister Republic of Nicaragua, wisely 
stated in his farewell address as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  revitalization  is  a 
political rather than a technical issue (see A/63/PV.105). 
We hope that as a result of the revitalization process, 
interaction  between  the  Secretariat  and  the  Assembly 
will  be  strengthened  so  that  the  former  can  respond 
more effectively to the mandates set by Member States.
The  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  Revitalization 
must  maintain  strict  control  over  the  implementation 
20/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
of resolutions related to its mandate and maintain the 
appropriate  updated  inventory  chart,  which  includes 
resolutions relating to the revitalization of the General 
Assembly.  We  already  possess  a  broad  legal  arsenal 
with respect to the needed revitalization of this essential 
organ.  The  priority  now  is  to  amplify  the  numerous 
resolutions  already  adopted  and  to  move  forward 
decisively towards the practical implementation of the 
reform process. 
working  methods  of  the  Main  Committees,  and  free 
the  Assembly’s  agenda  of  outdated  topics  in  order  to 
allocate  more  time  to  addressing  important,  pressing 
and contemporary issues. Those should be among the 
Working  Group’s  highest  priorities.  By  suggesting 
key areas for tangible improvement of the Assembly’s 
working methods, the Working Group can maintain its 
focus  on  aspects  of  revitalization  that  will  result  in  a 
real difference for the work of the General Assembly.
We must urgently take specific, practical steps in 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 
The Organizatin will not be capable of acting effectively 
within 
international 
relations  without  reforming  the  Security  Council  and 
making the General Assembly the centre of multilateral 
debate and work.
the  system  of  contemporary 
The  delegation  of  Cuba  would  like  to  close  by 
reiterating its readiness to continue to work together to 
achieve the true revitalization of the General Assembly.
Ms.  Hamilton  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States would like to thank last year’s co-Chairs 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  —  the  Permanent 
Representative of Slovakia, Mr. František Ružička, and 
the Permanent Representative of Thailand, Mr. Norachit 
Sinhaseni  —  for  their  leadership  of  the  Group.  We 
welcome  the  new  co-Chairs,  Ambassador  Vladimir 
Drobnjak  of  Croatia  and  Ambassador  Wilfried  I. 
Emvula  of  Namibia,  and  offer  them  our  full  support. 
We also look forward to working with fellow Member 
States as we consider the best options for revitalizing 
the General Assembly.
During the sixty-eighth session, the Working Group 
discussed many issues of paramount importance to the 
efficacy  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  we  strongly 
hope will continue in the sixty-ninth session under the 
leadership of our esteemed co-Chairs. We believe that 
the  Assembly  is  a  unique  body  of  great  importance 
in today’s world — a fact that was emphasized by the 
attendance  of  world  leaders  at  the  general  debate  in 
September, as well as the by day-to-day work of all our 
colleagues here today.
its  unique  status  among 
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  General  Assembly 
maintains 
the  world’s 
deliberative bodies, the United States believes that we 
must increase the Assembly’s efficiency, effectiveness 
and  transparency.  To  do  so,  we  must  streamline  and 
prioritize  the  agenda,  improve  the  practices  and 
We  recognize  that  many  delegations  continue  to 
focus on other aspects of the Assembly’s work, such as 
the  role  and  authority  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, the working methods of the Security Council 
or  the  process  to  select  the  Secretary-General.  While 
these are important topics, we do not believe that they 
should  be  the  primary  focus  of  the  Working  Group’s 
efforts. The Charter of the United Nations makes clear 
the coequal relationship between the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council,  which  should  be  respected.
In  our  view,  the  selection  process  for  the  Secretary-
General has already been adequately addressed. Article 
97 of the Charter provides a straightforward and clear 
process.
The United States is fully committed to multilateral 
engagement  in  a  strong  United  Nations  system.  We 
support  the  contributions  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
that  regard.  Accordingly,  our  delegation  has  made  it 
a  priority  to  make  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
more focused and relevant. We call on Member States 
to  refocus  their  attention  on  efforts  to  reform  the 
Asssembly’s working methods.
My delegation looks forward to working closely with 
you, Mr. President, the co-Chairs, and our counterparts 
from other delegations towards a constructive dialogue 
for concrete reform.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  would  like  first  of  all  to  commend  the 
remarkable  work  and  tireless  efforts  of  Mr.  František 
Ružička  and  Mr.  Norachit  Sinhaseni,  Permanent 
Representatives of Slovakia and Thailand, respectively, 
for  their  role  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Working  Methods 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. We 
also take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  and 
Mr.  Wilfried  Emvula,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Nambia, on their recent appointment as facilitators of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group, and to assure them of our 
full cooperation.
14-63492
21/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
My  delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.
Today’s  debate  addresses  an  issue  that  occupies 
a central place in the reform of the United Nations. It 
involves the major challenges that concern us, namely, 
the balance between the organs of the United Nations; 
the role, responsibility and effectiveness of the General 
Assembly;  and  the  modernization  of  its  working 
methods. The General Assembly holds a central place 
as the primary deliberative organ tasked with setting the 
direction  of  the  Organization,    defining  international 
economic,  social  and  cultural  cooperation;  and 
establishing  norms  and  codifying  the  implementation 
of international law.
For  the  past  20  years,  the  Assembly  has  adopted 
various  measures  to  strengthen  its  role  and  authority, 
as well as those of its President. The Assembly has also 
sought  to  refocus  its  work  in  order  to  better  address 
contemporary  and  future  global  challenges  such 
as  strengthening  international  peace  and  security, 
combating the ever-growing phenomenon of terrorism, 
strengthening  the  means  to  prevent  and  combat  the 
re-emergence  of  crises  and  conflicts,  and  preventing 
the deterioration of our environment and biodiversity. 
Furthermore, the countdown has begun. Within the next 
few months, world leaders must adopt a programme for 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  agreeing  on  new 
development  goals  designed  to  improve  the  people’s 
lives and protect our planet for future generations.
The  recent  resolutions  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  have  made  possible  a  certain  degree  of 
progress towards the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly. However, much remains to be done. 
The strategic objectives on which we need to continue 
to  work  include  improving  the  practices  and  working 
methods of the Main Committees; strengthening the role 
of the Office of the President of the General Assembly 
and providing it with a permanent structure in order to 
preserve the institutional memory of the Assembly and 
to  enable  the  President  to  more  effectively  discharge 
the  functions  with  which  he  has  been  entrusted; 
consolidating  the  role  and  authority  of  the  President; 
and more efficiently organizing the Assembly’s agenda.
Achieving  those  objectives  will  make  the  main 
deliberative organ a strong, credible and effective body 
that is able to meet the new challenges of the twenty-
first century and to contribute to building a peaceful, 
more prosperous and more just world. That work must be 
conducted with respect for the provisions of the Charter 
of the United Nations and for the balance it establishes, 
particularly  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council, in order to preserve the harmonious 
relationship between those two principal organs and to 
avoid any interference or encroachment. 
A bigger effort at rationalization is needed in order 
to  fill  the  gaps,  avoid  redundancies  and  strengthen 
the  Assembly’s  effectiveness,  while  bearing  in  mind 
the  need  to  rationalize  the  financial  aspects  of  the 
Organization. That revitalization effort should include 
a search for ways and means to make more effective the 
work of the various subsidiary organs of the Assembly, 
particularly its Main Committees.
We should not lose sight of the fact that through the 
revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of 
the Security Council, the international community seeks 
to restore and strengthen confidence in multilateralism, 
and  thereby  in  the  United  Nations,  as  the  proper 
framework  to  ensure  fair  and  equal  consideration  of 
the legitimate interests and aspirations of all Member 
States.  Promoting  the  revitalization  process  requires 
the commitment of all Member States and unwavering 
political will to advance multilateralism and its noble 
objectives.
Finally,  the  establishment  of  effective  and  fair 
governance  remains  dependant  on  revitalizing  the 
United  Nations  system  on  the  basis  of  realism, 
effectiveness and innovation as the key parameters in 
the search for solutions that meet the aspirations of both 
present and future generations.
Mrs. Zarrouk Boumiza (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): 
At the outset, I would like to thank the representatives 
of Slovakia and Thailand for their efforts in co-chairing 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work of the General Assembly. 
My  delegation  concurs  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  would  also  like  to  make 
the following comments. 
With regard to strengthening the role and authority 
of the General Assembly, we believe that revitalization 
is  one  of  the  pillars  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of 
the United Nations. The General Assembly is the main 
deliberative  organ  of  the  Organization. It  plays  a  role 
in  the  codification  of  international  law  and  addresses 
administrative and budgetary issues.  We must redouble 
our efforts to revitalize the Assembly. Indeed, we must 
22/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
continue  to  review  resolutions  on  the  subject,  as  they 
represent important criteria for assessing progress. 
that 
My  delegation  believes 
strengthening 
the  Assembly’s  role  also  requires  considering  the 
viewpoints  and  interests  of  all  countries  and  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  The  Assembly 
must  assist  in  dealing  with  emerging  challenges.  We 
must also accelerate efforts to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals as we approach 2015. 
My delegation also highlights the importance of the 
General  Assembly’s  continuing  to  organize  thematic 
debates as a tool to enable the international community 
to  exchange  opinions  and  views  on  important  issues. 
We are convinced that such debates will continue at this 
session  and  result  in  pragmatic,  concrete  results.  My 
delegation also underscores the importance of follow-
up. 
Strengthening  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
also  involves  recognizing  its  role  in  the  maintenance 
of international peace and security. The Charter of the 
United  Nations  attributes  the  major  responsibility  in 
that  area  to  the  Security  Council,  but  my  delegation 
believes that this authority is not absolute. We believe 
that  the  Assembly  should  respond  more  quickly  on 
issues related to international peace and security. 
We  also  believe  that  the  contents  of  the  annual 
Security Council report should be improved. The report 
should  be  more  analytical  and  in-depth  and  should 
reflect the context of decision-making, keeping in mind 
situations for which no solution was found. 
We believe it important to hold periodic meetings 
among the heads of the main bodies and that countries 
must  be  kept  informed  of  such  meetings.  I  also  note 
the importance of strengthening cooperation among the 
main bodies, including with respect to their respective 
programmes  of  work,  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
complementarity.
Regarding  the  working  methods  of  the  Assembly 
and  their  improvement,  my  delegation  notes  that  a 
number of measures that have been taken have led to 
improvements in that respect, including the convening of 
high-level meetings. However, we must engage in more 
in-depth discussion of a number of recommendations, 
in particular concerning the appointment of Committee 
Chairs with sufficient advance notice; planning shorter 
meeting; exchanging best practices, bearing in mind the 
specificities of each of the Main Committees; avoiding 
simultaneous  meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the other main bodies with respect to agenda items; and 
coordinating the planning of high-level meetings. 
We  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his efforts to strengthen the overall role of the United 
Nations and to consult with Member States in a spirit 
of transparency and cooperation, in order to develop a 
common vision to enable the Organization to attain the 
goals set by the international community. 
We also call for improving the process of electing 
and  appointing  the  executive  heads  of  the  United 
Nations  bodies.  In  that  regard,  we  should  take  into 
account  the  recommendations  of  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit  on  interviews  for  candidates,  as  well  as  the 
principle  of  equitable  geographic  distribution  in  such 
appointments. 
With  respect  to  the  support  to  be  given  to  the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  it 
must be sufficient so that the President can deal with 
his areas of responsibility. Moreover, the duties of that 
Office  should  not  increase  financial  burden  on  lower 
income States. However, it is important to maintain the 
Organization’s  institutional  memory,  bearing  in  mind 
lessons learned, in order to improve the administration 
of the work of the General Assembly. 
We  reiterate  our  support  for  resolution  68/307, 
including  the  decision  to  establish,  at  the  sixty-ninth 
session, an ad hoc working group on the revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  Assembly.  We  congratulate  the 
representatives  of  Namibia  and  Croatia  on 
their 
appointments to as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
current international situation is undergoing profound 
changes.  All  manner  of  new  threats  and  challenges 
continue  to  emerge  one  after  another.  Interlinked 
security issues, traditional and non-traditional, require 
joint responses from the international community. The 
international community expects the United Nations to 
play a more important role in safeguarding global peace, 
promoting  multilateral  development  and  advancing 
international cooperation.
The  General  Assembly,  with  its  193  members,  is 
the most universal and representative organ under the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  chief 
policymaking and deliberative organ. Member States in 
general, and the developing countries in particular, hope 
14-63492
23/25
A/69/PV.55 
18/11/2014
that  the  Assembly  will  continue  to  improve  its  work, 
enhance its role and authority, and fully implement its 
Charter-mandated functions.
The  General  Assembly  should  focus  more  on  its 
policy-deliberation function and promote the vigorous 
participation  of  Member  States  in  its  work.  It  should 
also set its priorities in the light of current developments 
in the international situation and concentrate on major 
issues  touching  on  the  interests  of  Member  States, 
especially  development,  which  is  a  common  concern 
of  the  developing  countries.  At  this  session  the 
Assembly  should  focus  on  prioritizing  and  increasing 
investment in development and play an important role 
in formulating the post-2015 development agenda and 
promoting sustainable development.
in 
the  comparative  advantages 
As  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should  improve  their 
coordination  and  division  of  labour  and  continue 
to  exploit 
their 
respective  fields,  while  enhancing  interaction  and 
information-exchange  and  forming  synergies.  In  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
General  Assembly  should  enhance  coordination  and 
cooperation  with  the  Security  Council  in  accordance 
with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.
China  takes  note  of  the  results  achieved  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  improving  its  working  methods 
in  the  election  of  the  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  members  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
Assembly’s efforts to improve its working methods, to 
rationalize its decision-making process, strengthen its 
efficiency  and  build  a  pragmatic  and  action-oriented 
culture.
The  efficient  functioning  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  is  important  in 
guaranteeing  the  success  of  the  Assembly’s.  efforts 
China  favours  enhancing  support  for  the  Office  of 
the    President  in  terms  of  the  budget  and  human 
resources, particularly in connection with resolving the 
difficulties encountered by developing countries when 
they assume the presidency of the General Assembly. 
In recent years, China has contributed to the trust fund 
to support of the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly. We hope that all parties will take concrete 
measures to support that Office.
The 
the  General  Assembly 
involves  the  interests  of  all  Member  States.  China 
revitalization  of 
firmly  supports  revitalizing  the  Assembly  and  the 
President’s efforts in that regard. China congratulates 
the Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia 
on their assumption of the co-chairmanship of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of the General Assembly at this session. It is our hope 
that, in the framework of the Ad Hoc Working Group, 
all  parties  will  pursue  the  principles  of  democratic 
consultations  and 
incremental  progress  and  will 
address  the  easier  issues  first,  while  steadily  pushing 
for  the  implementation  of  Assembly  resolutions  on 
revitalization.
The  membership  as  a  whole  maintains  high 
expectations  regarding  revitalization.  We  stand  ready 
to  work  with  other  Member  States  in  jointly  seeking 
progress  at  this  session  on  the  important  item  of  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Adamov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation of the Republic of Belarus aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM). 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
Algeria  for  its  consistent  and  systematic  formulation 
and advancement of the NAM position in the work of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work of the General Assembly.
We  also  express  our  sincere  appreciation  for  the 
organization of the work of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
by the representatives and experts of the delegations of 
Slovakia  and  Thailand.  Our  delegation  is  prepared  to 
work actively and constructively under the chairmanship 
of the representatives of Croatia and Namibia.
The Belarusian delegation welcomes the opportunity 
provided  by  the  adoption  of  the  relevant  resolution 
(resolution  68/307)  to  draw  Member  States’  attention 
to the procedure for selecting the Secretary-General, in 
accordance with the rules of procedure of the General 
Assembly.  The  Belarusian  delegation  considers  it 
important  that,  for  the  first  time  in  over  40  years, 
every State, large and small, will be able to express its 
opinion regarding the next selection of the Secretary-
General  by  means  of  a  genuinely  secret  ballot  in  the 
General Assembly.
Our delegation also welcomes the request contained 
in  the  resolution  for  an  appropriate  gender  balance 
in  a  number  of  the  Organization’s  duty  posts.  We 
sincerely regret the fact that during the 70 years of the 
Organization’s  history,  that  principle  has  not  affected 
24/25 
14-63492
18/11/2014 
A/69/PV.55
the main administrative post of the Organization. We 
therefore believe it highly important, overdue and timely 
to elect a woman to the post of Secretary-General. 
The  Belarusian  delegation  also  welcomes  the 
implementation of a predictable mechanism for rotating 
the chairmanships of the Main Committees, which will 
be put into practice at this session. We look forward to 
further productive work in that area, as called for in the 
resolution.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  a  joint  statement  on  behalf  of  Namibia  and 
Croatia.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  the  President  of 
the General Assembly for appointing my colleague, the 
Ambassador of Namibia, and me as co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of the General Assembly. We feel deeply honoured and 
privileged to be given the opportunity to participate in 
such a vital and far-reaching process.
We have taken careful note of today’s debate and 
will  take  everything  that  has  been  said  as  guidelines 
in our future work. In our efforts, we are not starting 
from  scratch;  on  the  contrary,  significant  work  has 
been done so far, including the adoption of resolution 
68/307 on 10 September, and we take this opportunity 
to highly commend our predecessors and dear friends, 
Ambassadors  Ružička  of  Slovakia  and  Sinhaseni  of 
Thailand, for their personal commitment and leadership 
in that regard. We stand at the disposal of the Member 
States  for  consultations,  exchange  of  views  and  the 
exploration new ideas in the months to come.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  we  are  looking 
forward to working with all Members and express our 
thanks,  once  again,  for  the  privilege  and  opportunity 
of  facilitating  the  General  Assembly’s  revitalization 
process.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on these agenda items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda items 117 and 118.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
14-63492
25/25
