United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
37th plenary meeting
Monday, 3 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Rambally 
(Saint Lucia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 86
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (А/69/255)
Draft resolution (A/69/L.7)
The Acting President: I invite Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency, to introduce the report of the Agency for the 
year 2013.
Mr.  Amano 
(International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency):  There  have  been  important  developments  in 
many areas of the activities of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  since  I  last  addressed  the 
General Assembly, a year ago (see A/68/PV.43). I will 
highlight some of them very briefly.
The nations of the world are now considering new 
sustainable development goals for the years after 2015. 
I  believe  that  nuclear  science  and  technology  have 
much to contribute to sustainable development in areas 
such as human health, agriculture, water management, 
industrial  applications  and  energy.  I  ask  all  Member 
States to help ensure that the importance of science and 
technology is explicitly recognized as a central part of 
the post-2015 development agenda.
The IAEA Technical Cooperation Programme plays 
a  key  role  in  ensuring  that  developing  countries  gain 
access to nuclear science and technology for peaceful 
purposes. The impact of our work on the daily lives of 
millions  of  people  around  the  world  is  extraordinary 
and  deserves  to  be  better  known.  For  example,  food 
irradiation helps to keep food fresh longer and protect 
it  against  parasites.  That  process  does  not  impair 
food  quality  and  enables  growers  and  producers  in 
developing  countries  to  increase  food  exports.  The 
IAEA  ensures  the  availability  of  techniques  such  as 
isotope ratio analysis to help determine the authenticity 
of  foodstuffs,  including  wine  and  honey.  That  also 
helps  in  combating  the  growing  world-wide  fraud  in 
foodstuffs,  while  protecting  legitimate  producers  and 
ensuring food safety.
Cancer  control  in  developing  countries  remains  a 
high  priority.  This  year,  the  IAEA  helped  Uruguay’s 
University  Hospital  to  acquire  a  linear  accelerator  so 
as  to  be  able  to  provide  radiotherapy  treatment  for 
cancer patients. Our Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy works with partners such as the World Health 
Organization to save thousands of lives in developing 
countries  by  helping  them  establish  comprehensive 
cancer control programmes. This year, for example, an 
IAEA mission to Fiji identified the need for a national 
programme  incorporating  cancer  prevention,  early 
detection and treatment linked to follow-up care.
Last  month,  I  announced  that  the  Agency  will 
provide specialized diagnostic equipment to help Sierra 
Leone  in  combating  the  Ebola  virus  disease.  Similar 
support  is  planned  for  other  affected  countries  - 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-60057 (E)
*1460057*
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
Liberia,  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Guinea.  It  will  help  those 
countries to diagnose the disease quickly — within a 
few  hours,  in  fact —  rather  than  the  days  it  can  take 
using  other  techniques.  Diagnosis  is  made  using  a 
nuclear-derived  technology,  known  as  RT-PCR.  Early 
diagnosis, if combined with appropriate medical care, 
will increase patients’ chances of survival. It can also 
help to curtail the spread of the disease by making it 
possible to isolate and treat patients earlier. That is the 
latest example of our work to make modern diagnostic 
techniques  available  on  the  ground,  where  and  when 
they are needed.
A key element of the IAEA’s special contribution to 
development is our unique cluster of nuclear applications 
laboratories near Vienna. They offer training in nuclear 
applications  to  member  States’  scientists,  support 
research  in  human  health,  food  and  other  areas,  and 
provide  analytical  services  to  national  laboratories. 
I  have  previously  reported  to  the  General  Assembly 
about  my  plans  to  modernize  the  laboratories,  which 
are more than 50 years old. I am pleased to inform the 
Assembly  that  the  ground-breaking  ceremony  took 
place  in  September.  When  that  important  project  is 
completed  in  2017,  we  will  have  modern  laboratories 
that  will  meet  member  States’  needs  for  decades  to 
come.
In  September,  we  also  marked 
fiftieth 
anniversary of the Joint FAO/IAEA Division of Nuclear 
Techniques  in  Food  and  Agriculture.  That  unique 
partnership  has  helped  many  developing  countries 
to  feed  their  growing  populations  and  generated 
considerable socioeconomic benefits.
the 
A  key  challenge  facing  the  world  in  the  coming 
decades will be to provide reliable supplies of energy 
as  the  population  grows,  while  at  the  same  time 
limiting  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  Many  countries 
believe that nuclear power can help them in addressing 
the  challenge.  Nuclear  power  is  one  of  the  lowest 
emitters  of  carbon  dioxide,  alongside  hydro-  and 
wind-based electricity, when emissions are considered 
throughout  their  entire  life  cycle.  Today,  there  are 
437 operational nuclear power reactors in 30 countries, 
producing about 11 per cent of the world’s electricity. In 
addition, 72 reactors are under construction, mostly in 
Asia. Our latest projections show continuous growth in 
the use of nuclear power to 2030.
This  year,  the  IAEA  Scientific  Forum,  held  in 
September,  focused  on  the  management  and  disposal 
of  radioactive  waste.  That  is  an  issue  affecting  all 
countries, not just those with nuclear power programmes. 
Radioactive  sources  are  widely  used  in  industry  and 
medicine  and  in  many  other  areas,  and  those  sources 
must be safely disposed of at the end of their working 
life. Waste disposal must be given proper consideration 
by  all  States  when  embarking  on  any  use  of  nuclear 
technology. There are widespread misperceptions about 
the feasibility of the disposal of radioactive waste. In 
fact, well-established technologies exist to address the 
issue and are already in use.
Progress  continues  in  efforts  to  improve  nuclear 
safety.  I  have  seen  concrete  improvements  in  safety 
features  at  every  nuclear  power  plant  that  I  have 
visited  since  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident.  In  the 
immediate aftermath of that accident, the focus was on 
helping  Japan  respond  to  the  crisis  and  ensuring  that 
the  necessary  lessons  were  learned  and  acted  upon, 
everywhere.  Next  year,  we  will  publish  an  important 
report on the accident.
However,  nuclear  safety  is  not  simply  about 
guarding against severe natural hazards. While taking 
forward  the  lessons  learned  arising  from  Fukushima 
Daiichi, I believe that it is time to start considering a 
broader  approach  to  strengthening  nuclear  safety.  In 
the coming years, we need to look at the safety aspects 
of other important issues, including decommissioning 
old facilities and extending the operating life of nuclear 
power plants, always keeping as our vision the goal laid 
down in our Statute, namely, the “protection of health 
and minimization of danger to life and property”.
The  central  role  of  the  Agency  in  helping  to 
strengthen  the  global  nuclear  security  framework  is 
widely  recognized.  With  its  broad  mandate,  technical 
capabilities and the support of 162 member States, the 
Agency is well placed to help the world act in unison 
against the threat of nuclear terrorism. 
The  most  important  area  of  unfinished  business 
in nuclear security remains the entry into force of the 
2005  Amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  There  has  been  real 
momentum in recent years towards its entry into force, 
which  is  one  of  the  most  significant  measures  that 
the  world  could  adopt  to  strengthen  nuclear  security. 
I  appeal  to  all  countries  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
adhere  to  the  amendment.  The  next  high-level  IAEA 
International Conference on Nuclear Security will take 
place  in  December  2016.  It  will  provide  an  important 
opportunity to review the progress achieved and to map 
out our work for the future.
2/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
I will now turn to nuclear verification. Safeguards 
agreements are now in force with 181 States. However, 
12  non-nuclear-weapon  States  have  yet  to  meet  their 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  conclude  a  comprehensive 
safeguards agreement with the Agency. For those States, 
we cannot draw any safeguards conclusions. I urge all 
those  States  to  conclude  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements as soon as possible. I am pleased to report 
that the number of States with the additional protocol 
in  force  continues  to  rise.  It  now  stands  at  124.  That 
is very encouraging, because the additional protocol is 
an essential tool for the Agency to be able to provide 
credible assurance that there are no undeclared nuclear 
materials and activities in a country.
The nuclear programme of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea remains a matter of serious concern. I 
call upon the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to 
comply fully with its obligations, to cooperate promptly 
with  the  IAEA  and  to  resolve  all  outstanding  issues, 
including  those  that  have  arisen  during  the  five-year 
absence  of  Agency  inspectors  from  the  country.  The 
Agency will maintain its readiness to play an essential 
role in verifying the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea’s nuclear programme.
In the case of Syria, the Assembly will recall that 
in  May  2011,  I  reported  that  it  was  very  likely  that  a 
building  destroyed  at  the  Dayr  al-Zour  site  in  2007 
was  a  nuclear  reactor  that  should  have  been  declared 
to the Agency. The Agency has not received any new 
information that would affect that assessment. I again 
urge  Syria  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Agency  in 
connection with unresolved issues related to the Dayr 
al-Zour site and other locations.
There have been important developments concerning 
safeguards  implementation  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran.  In  November  2013,  the  Agency  and  Iran  agreed 
to  cooperate  further  to  resolve  all  present  and  past 
issues  under  a  framework  for  cooperation.  Iran  has 
implemented  most  of  the  practical  measures  agreed 
under  the  safeguards  agreement,  but  not  all  of  them. 
Separately,  our  Board  of  Governors  authorized  the 
Agency  to  undertake  monitoring  and  verification  in 
relation to nuclear-related measures set out in the Joint 
Plan  of  Action  agreed  between  the  E3+3  and  Iran  in 
2013.  That  has  meant  a  large  additional  workload  for 
Agency staff. In fact, our verification effort in Iran has 
doubled under the Joint Plan of Action.
The Agency continues to verify the non-diversion 
of nuclear material declared by Iran under its safeguards 
agreement. However, we are unable to provide credible 
assurance  about  the  absence  of  undeclared  nuclear 
material  and  activities.  The  Agency  can  therefore  not 
conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is being used 
in peaceful activities. In order to resolve all outstanding 
issues, it is very important that Iran should implement, 
in  a  timely  manner,  all  practical  measures  agreed 
under the framework for cooperation. I also ask Iran to 
propose new practical measures for the next step in our 
cooperation.
is 
likely 
to  face 
The  Agency 
tough  budget 
constraints  for  some  years  to  come,  reflecting  the 
financial  difficulties  in  many  countries.  In  response, 
we are doing everything possible to make prudent use 
of our limited resources and to ensure that we deliver 
maximum  benefit  to  our  member  States.  At  the  same 
time, demand for our services continues to grow, and 
it  is  not  possible  to  meet  those  growing  needs  within 
existing  financial  means.  We  must  therefore  strike  a 
delicate balance between the capacity of member States 
to contribute and member States’ needs, while seeking 
additional sources of funding.
Finally, let me note that I have continued my efforts 
to encourage well-qualified women to apply for senior 
positions  in  the  Agency.  The  number  of  women  in 
senior  positions  has  risen  steadily  since  I  took  office 
nearly five years ago. However, more needs to be done. 
I  urge  member  States  to  encourage  suitably  qualified 
women to apply for positions at the IAEA.
The Acting President: I thank the Director General 
for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency.
I now give the floor to the representative of Slovakia 
to introduce draft resolution A/69/L.7.
Mr. Ružička (Slovakia): First of all, I would like 
to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  Agency  for  the 
calendar year 2013 (see A/69/255). The document sets 
forth the achievements of the IAEA and the challenges 
it  will  face  in  the  coming  years.  The  report  also 
illustrates  the  vital  role  played  by  the  Agency  in  the 
development  and  transfer  of  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful purposes and its contributions to strengthening 
the global nuclear safety framework and the guarantees 
regarding the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
14-60057
3/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
In 2013, the IAEA’s activities were strengthened in 
two areas: nuclear science and nuclear technology. The 
Agency continues to play an important role in providing 
technical  assistance  to  member  States  wishing  to  use 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  So  far,  more 
than 124 member States have benefitted from Agency 
programmes  for  the  analysis  and  planning  of  their 
national  energy  systems.  Through  those  programmes, 
member  States  can  meet  their  national  development 
priorities  in  areas  where  nuclear  technologies  offer 
advantages.  The  importance  of  nuclear  science  and 
nuclear technology is one of the key issues of the post-
2015  sustainable  development  agenda  as  we  seek  to 
ensure and promote sustainable development.
This  year,  at 
the  end  of  September, 
the 
modernization of the nuclear applications laboratories 
in  Seibersdorf,  Austria  -  known  as  the  ReNuAL 
project, for the Renovation of the Nuclear Applications 
Laboratories  -  was  started  and  will  contribute 
significantly  to  the  development  of  nuclear  science. 
Slovakia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Agency’s 
programmes in the areas of nuclear science, technology 
and  applications.  We  have  continuously  supported 
several projects for the promotion of the use of nuclear 
technologies, such as the African Union’s Pan African 
Tsetse  and  Trypanosomiasis  Eradication  Campaign. 
The modernization of radiation technology techniques 
in Slovakia through close collaboration with the IAEA 
Division  of  Physical  and  Chemical  Sciences  is  also 
among our priorities.
Another  important  pillar  of  the  IAEA  mandate  is 
nuclear  safety  and  security.  The  Agency  continues  to 
play  the  central  role  in  helping  to  strengthen  global 
nuclear  security.  Its  work  in  that  area  is  detailed  in 
the  Nuclear  Security  Report  2014  and  the  Director 
General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of  the  IAEA 
Nuclear Security Plan 2010-2013.
Progress continues. However, with 437 operational 
nuclear  reactors  and  70  nuclear  reactors  currently 
under  construction  in  the  world  and  in  the  aftermath 
of  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident,  the  importance 
of  establishing  an  effective  global  nuclear  liability 
regime remains on the table. The Agency must take all 
measures necessary to prevent further accidents. It is a 
unique international organization with expertise in all 
aspects of nuclear technology, and we are confident that 
the Agency will continue its leading role in shaping a 
future world with safer nuclear technologies.
In  fulfilling  Slovakia’s  responsibility  as  Chair  of 
the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency, I am pleased to introduce, under item 
86  of  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  draft 
resolution entitled “Report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency”, contained in document A/69/L.7. On 
behalf of the 69 sponsors listed in the document, I bring 
it to the attention of the Assembly. The few updates to 
last year’s text are of a technical nature relating to dates 
and  the  list  of  the  relevant  resolutions  and  decisions 
adopted by the General Conference of the Agency at its 
fifty-eighth regular session.
Similarly  to  last  year,  the  text  takes  note  with 
appreciation of the report of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  It  also  takes  note  of  the  resolutions 
adopted by the General Conference and reaffirms the 
strong support of the General Assembly for the Agency’s 
indispensable  role  in  encouraging  and  assisting  the 
development and practical application of atomic energy 
for  peaceful  uses,  technology  transfer  to  developing 
countries and nuclear safety, verification and security. 
It appeals to Member States to continue to support the 
activities of the Agency.
The language of the draft resolution was approved 
by consensus after the consultations held in Vienna and 
New York on 22 and 24 October, respectively. I would 
like  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  Member 
States  for  their  constructive  engagement  during  the 
informal consultations.
I  now  submit  this  text  to  the  General  Assembly 
for its consideration. I sincerely hope that, as was the 
case last year, the draft resolution will be adopted by 
consensus,  without  a  vote.  It  also  remains  open  for 
further sponsors.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Mayr-Harting (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Iceland,  Serbia 
and  Albania,  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
We are pleased to support draft resolution A/69/L.7, 
on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
4/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
Agency (IAEA) (see A/69/255), which again reaffirms 
the  indispensable  role  played  by  the  Agency  with 
regard to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and 
in assisting the development and practical application 
of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful  uses,  as  well  as  in 
technology transfer and in nuclear verification, safety 
and security.
The  European  Union  is  committed  to  effective 
multilateral action against the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction and attaches the utmost importance 
to  universalizing  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  We  call  on  States  that 
have not yet done so to join the Treaty as non-nuclear-
weapon  States.  Furthermore,  the  European  Union  is 
actively  contributing  to  global  efforts  to  seek  a  safer 
world  for  all  and  to  create  the  conditions  for  a  world 
without nuclear weapons, in accordance with the goals 
of  the  NPT  and  in  a  way  that  promotes  international 
stability and is based on the principle of undiminished 
security  for  all.  We  underline  the  vital  importance  of 
non-proliferation for achieving those goals.
The European Union is fully supportive of the action 
plan  adopted  at  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 
and  would  like  to  reiterate  its  commitment  to  the 
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, 
as agreed by the NPT States parties in a resolution on the 
Middle East during the 1995 NPT Review Conference.
We  therefore  regret  that  the  conference  on  the 
establishment  of  such  a  zone,  which  was  due  to 
take  place  in  2012,  was  postponed.  The  European 
Union  fully  supports  the  ongoing  preparations  for  a 
successful  conference,  particularly  the  tireless  efforts 
of its facilitator, Ambassador Laajava of Finland. The 
progress  achieved  during  the  informal  gatherings  in 
Switzerland  has  provided  some  grounds  for  hope. 
The  EU  calls  on  all  States  in  the  region  to  urgently 
and  proactively  engage  with  the  facilitator  and  the 
co-conveners with the aim of convening the conference 
as soon as possible on the basis of arrangements freely 
arrived at by the States of the region.
The 2010 NPT Review Conference reaffirmed the 
role  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in 
verifying  and  ensuring  States’  compliance  with  their 
safeguards  obligations.  It  stressed  the  importance 
of  resolving  all  cases  of  non-compliance  and  the 
importance of States parties responding resolutely and 
effectively in such cases.
The European Union is deeply concerned about the 
protracted and serious challenges to the non-proliferation 
regime  posed  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  and  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran. We note the important developments 
over the past year in the case of Iran. The EU would like 
to  stress  again  that  the  Security  Council,  as  the  final 
arbiter  in  matters  of  international  peace  and  security, 
has the mandate to take appropriate action in the event 
of  non-compliance  with  NPT  obligations,  including 
safeguards agreements.
The Agency’s system of safeguards is a fundamental 
component of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
plays an indispensable role in the implementation of the 
NPT. The measures contained in the model additional 
protocol form an integral part of the IAEA safeguards 
system. In the European Union’s view, comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements 
together  with  additional 
protocols  constitute  the  current  IAEA  verification 
standard. The EU calls for the universalization of that 
standard without delay.
The  European  Union  attaches 
We have firmly supported the continued evolution 
of safeguards towards a State-level concept, with a view 
to achieving the efficient and effective implementation 
of IAEA safeguards worldwide. The EU is grateful for 
the wide support received from the IAEA member States 
for  the  EU-sponsored  resolution  on  strengthening  the 
effectiveness and improving the efficiency of Agency 
safeguards, at the recent IAEA General Conference.
importance 
to 
ensuring  that  the  highest  standards  for  nuclear  safety 
are  implemented  and  continuously  improved  in  the 
European  Union  and  promoted  internationally.  In 
that  context,  the  Council  of  the  European  Union 
adopted  a  renewed  directive  to  strengthen  the  safety 
framework  for  nuclear  installations.  The  directive 
sets  the  objective  of  preventing  accidents  and,  should 
they occur, mitigating the consequences and avoiding 
early  and  large  radioactive  releases.  That  objective 
will apply to all new nuclear installations and will be 
used  as  a  reference  for  the  implementation  of  safety 
improvements to existing nuclear installations. We look 
forward to the diplomatic conference next year, where 
a  similar  enhancement  to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear 
Safety will be discussed.
In  the  framework  of  its  strategy  to  combat  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the 
European  Union  actively  supports  Security  Council 
14-60057
5/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
resolutions 1540 (2004) and 1887 (2009), as well as other 
international initiatives, such as the Global Partnership 
against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass 
Destruction, 
the  Proliferation  Security  Initiative, 
the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism, 
the  Global  Threat  Reduction  Initiative  and 
the 
Nuclear  Security  Summits,  which  have  contributed 
to  strengthening  nuclear  security.  Of  €260  million 
dedicated  to  chemical,  biological,  radiological  and 
nuclear (CBRN) risk mitigation worldwide, more than 
€100  million  has  been  allocated  to  the  EU’s  regional 
CBRN Centres of Excellence initiative.
The  EU  strongly  supports  IAEA  activities  in  the 
area of nuclear security and, together with its member 
States, is among the main contributors to the Nuclear 
Security  Fund,  having  provided  about  €40  million  to 
date, to the benefit of around 100 countries. We intend 
to continue to support the IAEA’s work and look forward 
to the next high-level IAEA International Conference 
on  Nuclear  Security,  to  take  place  in  December 
2016.  Effective  physical  protection  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  to  prevent  nuclear  material  falling  into 
the hands of terrorists and proliferators and to protect 
nuclear  facilities  against  malicious  acts.  We  therefore 
urge  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  become 
party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of 
Nuclear Material and its 2005 Amendment.
Finally,  the  European  Union  attaches  the  utmost 
importance  to  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
programme and to its role in the responsible development 
of peaceful applications of nuclear energy. We support 
both the IAEA and cooperation with third countries in 
that  area  with  an  amount  totaling  about  €150  million 
per  year.  In  further  support  to  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy, the EU has allocated €225 million for 
the  period  2014-2020  for  promoting  nuclear  safety, 
radiation  protection  and  the  application  of  efficient 
and  effective  safeguards  of  nuclear  material  in  third 
countries.
Mr.  Singh  (India):  My  delegation  would  like  to 
thank the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  preparing  the  Agency’s 
annual report for the year 2013 (see A/69/255).
India  is  committed  to  harnessing  the  benefits 
of  nuclear  energy  for  electricity  production  while 
according  the  highest  priority  to  nuclear  safety  and 
security. India will need to rapidly increase its energy 
production  to  meet  the  growing  energy  requirements 
for achieving its development goals. Nuclear energy is 
an essential component of our energy basket.
This year marks several milestones for the Indian 
atomic energy programme. Our Department of Atomic 
Energy was established 60 years ago, in 1954. This year 
also marks the golden jubilee of India’s first reprocessing 
plant,  known  as  the  Plutonium  Plant,  which  was  the 
first  step  in  the  second  stage  of  our  nuclear  power 
programme,  which  uses  plutonium-based  fuel  in  fast 
breeder reactors. This year we also marked the fortieth 
anniversary of the commissioning of ISOMED, India’s 
first  gamma-radiation  processing  plant  for  sterilizing 
medical products. It was set up at the Bhabha Atomic 
Research Centre (BARC), in Mumbai, with the help of 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
IAEA.
In  August,  unit  5  of  the  Rajasthan  atomic  power 
station  achieved  a  record  765  days  of  continuous 
operation,  the  highest  in  the  world  for  the  past  two 
decades and the second highest in the entire history of 
nuclear power. The first unit of the Kudankulam nuclear 
power plant, which achieved its first criticality in July 
last  year,  is  now  operating  at  close  to  its  full  rated 
power of 1,000 megawatts electric. The second unit is 
in an advanced stage of commissioning. Construction 
of  a  500-megawatt  prototype  fast  breeder  reactor  is 
nearing completion at Kalpakkam, with the erection of 
all  critical  permanent  in-core  components  completed. 
The reactor is expected to achieve first criticality about 
six months from now.
India continues to attach high priority to research 
and  development  on  all  aspects  of  thorium-related 
reactor technologies and allied fuel cycles. The process 
of selecting a site for constructing an advanced heavy-
water reactor (AHWR) is at an advanced stage. Several 
Indian  fuel-cycle  facilities  reached 
their  highest 
performance  levels  last  year,  with  our  pressurized 
heavy-water  reactor  fuel  production  achieving  an 
increase  of  18  per  cent  over  the  previous  year.  Our 
highest-ever  production  of  heavy  water  was  achieved 
with  our  lowest  specific  energy  consumption.  With 
its  excellent  physical  and  nuclear  properties,  thorium 
is  widely  and  rightly  viewed  as  a  fuel  of  the  future, 
and  India  is  continuing  its  intensive  development 
of  technologies  based  on  the  thorium  fuel  cycle  for 
demonstration in its AHWR programme.
An  additional  protocol  to  the  agreement  between 
India and the IAEA for the application of safeguards to 
6/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
Indian civilian nuclear facilities entered into force on 
25 July 2014. India is committed to implementing the 
highest standards for the safety of Indian nuclear power 
plants and the associated fuel-cycle facilities.
We  will  continue  to  participate  in  and  assist  the 
efforts  of  the  IAEA  Secretariat  to  enhance  nuclear 
safety through the cluster of measures it has formulated 
in the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. The Agency 
has  an  important  role  in  allaying  misapprehensions 
among the public and member States about the safety 
of  nuclear  power  plants,  taking  into  account  current 
advances in the relevant design and technology areas. 
During  his  visit  to  India  in  March  2013,  the  Director 
General  expressed  his  appreciation  for  the  safety 
upgrades implemented in our Tarapur 1 and 2 reactors. 
We  would  also  like  to  encourage  the  IAEA  to  make 
concerted efforts for the free flow among member States 
of  the  latest  information,  technology  and  equipment 
pertaining to nuclear safety.
As  part  of  India’s  commitment  to  implementing 
the highest standards of the safety of its nuclear power 
plants,  several  steps  have  been  taken  recently  to 
organize peer reviews at the national and international 
levels.  A  follow-up  mission  of  the  IAEA  Operational 
Safety Review Team to units 3 and 4 of India’s Rajasthan 
atomic power station took place from 3 to 7 February.
India  appreciates  the  significant  progress  made 
by  the  International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear 
Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  (INPRO)  over  the  years. 
The  INPRO  methodology  for  assessing  innovative 
technologies  and  fuel  cycles  provides  an  opportunity 
to develop acceptance criteria for new designs, among 
other  things  addressing  innovative  capabilities  for 
enhanced safety.
India  is  pleased  to  note  that  the  Director  General 
organized this year’s Scientific Forum on the important 
topic of “Radioactive Waste: Meeting the Challenge”. 
In that connection, India’s policy of employing a closed 
nuclear  cycle  not  only  ensures  better  utilization  of 
nuclear  fuel  resources,  it  also  greatly  minimizes  the 
quantity  of  nuclear  waste.  The  2014  Scientific  Forum 
provided  an  opportunity  for  countries  to  share  their 
experience in this important area, which will go a long 
way  in  allaying  one  of  the  major  concerns  of  nuclear 
energy.
The  commissioning  of 
the  BARC  Actinide 
Separation Demonstration Facility at Tarapur has made 
India  one  of  two  advanced  nuclear  countries  capable 
of  demonstrating  the  separation  of  minor  actinides 
from  high-level  waste.  That  approach  could  help  to 
substantially reduce both the life of radioactive waste 
from around 1,000 years to about 300, and the volume 
of  high-level  waste  requiring 
long-term  storage. 
Furthermore, technology has also been developed and 
demonstrated  for  the  removal  of  highly  radioactive 
caesium-137  and  its  conversion  to  a  vitrified  pencil 
source,  usable  for  blood-irradiator  and  similar  low-
dose-rate  radiation  applications.  The  removal  of 
actinides and caesium-137 addresses several technical 
issues  on  the  storage  of  high-level  waste  in  a  cost-
effective and sustainable manner.
Nuclear  energy  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in 
achieving the objectives of India’s sustainable economic 
growth. At the same time, India is extensively engaged 
in  the  development  of  nuclear  technologies  in  diverse 
fields  extending  beyond  nuclear  power,  including 
isotope  applications  for  improved  crop  varieties,  crop 
protection and post-harvest technologies, radioisotope 
applications  for  diagnostic  and  therapeutic  uses  in 
health care, and technologies for safe drinking water, 
industry, and so on.
India attaches great importance to the IAEA’s work 
in the fields of nuclear science. We contribute to those 
activities  through  participation  in  technical  meetings 
and coordinated research projects, and we also support 
the  IAEA’s  nuclear  fusion  programme.  The  Agency’s 
programme  and  achievements  in  relation  to  nuclear 
applications in food and agriculture, human health and 
nutrition, water resource management, protection of the 
environment and industry make a valuable contribution 
to  meeting  the  needs  of  developing  countries.  India 
highly  appreciates 
in  cancer 
management,  in  particular  the  Programme  on  Action 
for  Cancer  Therapy.  India  will  continue  to  support 
Agency activities in those areas, including by offering 
services  of  experts  and  training  fellows  in  reputable 
institutions in the country.
the  IAEA’s  efforts 
There is widespread recognition that the threat of 
nuclear terrorism is one of the pressing challenges facing 
the  international  community.  Responsible  national 
action  and  effective  international  cooperation  are 
therefore required for strengthening nuclear security in 
order to prevent vulnerable nuclear material falling into 
the  hands  of  non-State  actors.  India  has  consistently 
supported  the  IAEA’s  important  role  in  facilitating 
national  efforts  to  strengthen  nuclear  security  and  in 
fostering effective international cooperation.
14-60057
7/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
India has participated in the three Nuclear Security 
Summits  held  thus  far.  As  part  of  implementation  of 
the  arrangement  with  the  IAEA  concerning  India’s 
voluntary  contribution  to  the  Nuclear  Security  Fund, 
the services of an Indian cost-free expert in information 
security  are  being  provided  to  the  Department  of 
Nuclear Safety and Security of the IAEA.
Universal  adherence  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  and  early 
entry  into  force  of  its  2005  Amendment  would  go  a 
long  way  to  strengthening  global  efforts  in  the  area 
of  nuclear  security.  India  is  party  to  the  Convention 
and is one of the countries that have ratified the 2005 
Amendment.  We  appreciate  the  Agency’s  efforts  to 
bring the amendment into force and note the increase in 
the number of States adhering to it. We encourage the 
Agency  to  continue  its  efforts  to  promote  early  entry 
into force of the Amendment.
With these comments, we take note of the IAEA’s 
annual report for 2013. India supports the work of the 
IAEA and has co-sponsored draft resolution A/69/L.7 
on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank Director General Amano 
for  presenting  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (see A/69/255).
In  the  context  of  rising  demand  for  energy  and 
climate  change  concerns,  there  should  be  no  doubt 
that nuclear energy is bound to play a significant rale 
in  the  development  of  many  developing  countries.  As 
indicated in the latest annual report of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  of  the  72  nuclear 
reactors that are under construction at present, 48 are 
in  Asia.  According  to  the  report,  over  30  countries 
are  considering  a  nuclear  power  programme  or  are 
introducing  nuclear  power  into  their  energy  mix.  We 
note that many of them are developing countries.
Against  that  backdrop,  it  is  obvious  that  the 
IAEA,  in  carrying  out  its  Statute  mandate,  now  has 
a  special  responsibility  in  the  global  management  of 
the  increasing  interest  in  the  use  of  nuclear  energy 
worldwide. Based on articles II and III of its Statute, the 
IAEA has primary responsibility for assisting member 
States  in  research  on,  and  development  and  practical 
application of, nuclear energy for peaceful uses. That is 
not to say that the IAEA’s other statutory mandates, in 
particular on safeguards-related verification activities, 
are  subordinate.  However,  we  emphasize  that  the 
design  and  implementation  of  required  safeguards 
must comply with the rights of the parties to the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
and  avoid  hampering  their  economic  or  technological 
development.  In  this  context,  any  efforts  to  enhance 
safeguards 
those  under 
consideration  in  the  Agency,  need  to  ensure  respect 
for the rights and the national sovereignty of member 
States.
implementation,  such  as 
The  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  its 
associated  technology  is  of  great  importance  to  the 
scientific, technological and economic development of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  While  fully  committed 
to  its  legal  obligations  under  the  NPT  and  the 
relevant  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement,  Iran  is 
determined to exercise its full nuclear rights, including 
enrichment for peaceful purposes. That policy is based 
on  long-term  planning  to  meet  the  growing  energy 
needs  of  my  country.  In  that  regard,  Iran  has  made 
considerable investment in building necessary nuclear 
infrastructure and has achieved significant progress in 
the  civilian  application  of  nuclear  science  and  energy 
in  the  medical,  agricultural  and  industrial  fields,  The 
Bushehr nuclear power plant is now being operated by 
Iranian staff with the assistance of Russian specialists. 
Next  year,  Iranian  operators  will  take  over  the  full 
control of the plant’s operation.
Cooperation  with  the  IAEA  has  a  central  place 
in  Iran’s  nuclear  policy.  All  nuclear  activities  and 
facilities in Iran are under the IAEA’s safeguards. On 
many  occasions,  as  a  voluntary  confidence-building 
measure, Iran’s cooperation with the Agency has gone 
well beyond its existing legal obligations arising from 
the NPT and its safeguards agreement. As a result, the 
non-diversion of declared nuclear material and facilities 
in Iran has always been verified and confirmed in all 
IAEA reports.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  committed  to 
continuing its cooperation with the Agency. Since last 
year, a new chapter of cooperation with the IAEA has 
been  opened  and  significant  progress  has  been  made. 
Iran  has  demonstrated  its  political  will  to  continue 
a  constructive  approach  in  order  to  resolve  all  past 
and  present  issues.  It  is  worth  mentioning  that  Iran 
has  not  recognized  the  so-called  possible  military 
dimensions of its nuclear programme, and indeed, the 
framework  for  cooperation  agreed  between  Iran  and 
IAEA does not make reference to any such irrelevant 
8/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
notions.  There  have  never  been  any  authenticated 
documents  supporting  possible  military  dimensions 
claims, and, as was underlined by the former Director 
General  in  his  reports  —  for  example,  in  document 
GOV/2009/55 —  the  Agency  itself  has  limited  means 
to independently validate the documentation that forms 
the basis of such a claim.
Based  on  our  principled  positions,  we  continue 
to  cooperate  with  the  IAEA  on  clarifying  some  of 
the  ambiguities.  However,  as  stated  by  Iran’s  high-
ranking officials, areas related to our national security, 
such  as  defence  capabilities,  are  not  subject  to  any 
kind  of  negotiation  at  any  level.  While  the  IAEA 
work  is  basically  of  a  technical  nature,  its  operations 
undoubtedly take place in a political context. Therefore, 
observing full impartiality in conducting the technical 
mandate  of  the  IAEA  is  essential  for  preserving  its 
authority and credibility and member States’ trust.
The  inalienable  right  of  NPT  parties  to  develop 
research,  production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy, 
including  a  national  nuclear  fuel  cycle  for  peaceful 
purposes, must be respected by all. Some have tried to 
create doubts regarding the commitment of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran to nuclear non-proliferation. To prove 
them wrong, in the past 15 months, we have engaged in 
serious negotiations in good faith with our interlocutors 
in  the  permanent  five  plus  one  group  (P5+1)  to  help 
build  confidence  regarding  Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear 
programme.
We believe that the differences over Iran’s peaceful 
nuclear  programme  can  be  resolved  only  through 
negotiations. Those who may consider any other way out 
are either seriously mistaken or have a vested interest 
in furthering the schemes of the warmongers, who seek 
to create further difficulties for our region and beyond. 
We  are  determined  to  continue  negotiations  with  our 
interlocutors  in  the  P5+1  based  on  mutual  respect 
and  aimed  at  allaying  the  concerns  of  both  sides.  A 
mutually agreed solution is attainable if the facts and 
realities  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  are  duly  taken 
into account and excessive demands were abandoned. 
A comprehensive agreement would be beneficial to all 
sides.
Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
The  Russian  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation to the Director General of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
for  introducing  the  report  on  the  Agency’s  work  (see 
A/69/255).  We  commend  the  IAEA  for  its  work  and 
advocate further strengthening of the Agency’s capacity 
and increasing our cooperation with it.
the  world  and  expand 
Our country fully shares the high assessment of the 
Agency’s work. We hope that the IAEA will continue step 
up its efforts to develop nuclear energy and technology 
throughout 
international 
cooperation  in  the  those  fields,  while  improving  and 
strengthening  the  global  non-proliferation  regime. 
Russia  intends  to  continue  to  develop  nuclear  energy 
and  to  contribute  to  its  development  throughout  the 
world.
The IAEA plays a fundamental role in the field of 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  Its  unique 
verification  mechanism  enables  it  to  very  effectively 
monitor States’ compliance with their obligations under 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
(NPT).  Our  country  has  consistently  championed  the 
improvement  of  the  Agency’s  monitoring  functions, 
including  adoption  of  the  additional  protocol  to  the 
IAEA safeguards agreement as a universally recognized 
norm  for  verification  in  the  area  of  non-proliferation. 
An  impartial  approach  to  nuclear  verification  based 
on  objective  indicators  is  an  important  element  in 
preserving  the  legitimacy  of  the  IAEA  safeguards 
system and the non-proliferation regime as a whole.
Russia  actively  participates  in  IAEA  activities 
as  a  financial  donor,  including  through  voluntary 
contributions to the International Project on Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  and  to  the  Nuclear 
Security  Fund.  We  support  the  Agency’s  efforts 
in 
technical  cooperation  and  provide  appropriate 
assistance to developing States.
In  the  context  of  the  large-scale  development  of 
nuclear  energy,  the  Russian  Federation  gives  priority 
attention to such issues as creating a new architecture 
for peaceful nuclear cooperation based on multilateral 
approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  the  guaranteed 
provision  of  services  in  the  field  of  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle  and  resolving  the  problem  of  spent  nuclear  fuel 
and  radioactive  waste  management.  Based  on  those 
priorities,  Russia  has  proposed  an  initiative  on  the 
development of a global nuclear energy infrastructure 
and the creation of international centres for the provision 
of  nuclear-fuel-cycle  services  in  order  to  ensure 
the  universal  access  by  all  NPT  States  parties  to  the 
benefits of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, as long 
as they are in compliance with their non-proliferation 
obligations.
14-60057
9/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
Practice has shown that this is a timely initiative. I 
note that there is an international uranium enrichment 
centre in Russia. All States developing nuclear energy 
and complying with their non-proliferation obligations 
have been invited to participate in it.
The Russian Federation supports the Agency’s work 
and underlines its leading role in forging cooperation 
among States and exchange of experiences in the field 
of nuclear security. We stress that it is unacceptable for 
issues from the disarmament agenda to be artificially 
introduced  in  nuclear  security  activities.  A  pledge  of 
success for the international community in this sensitive 
question  is  the  broadest  possible  representation  of 
States  in  international  legal  mechanisms  for  nuclear 
security:  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection 
of  Nuclear  Material  and  its  Amendment,  and  the 
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of 
Nuclear Terrorism. Russia has signed and ratified those 
documents. We call on States that have not yet done so 
to accelerate the completion of domestic procedures for 
accession to those important international instruments.
At  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the  IAEA  General 
Conference,  Russia  called  for  the  annual  reports 
submitted to the United Nations General Assembly to be 
prepared through consultations among member States, 
eliminating  the  practice  of  submitting  documents 
that have not been fully agreed upon to the governing 
bodies  of  the  IAEA.  The  documents  are  a  reflection 
of  the  collective  opinions  and  assessments  of  all 
stakeholders, and that cannot be achieved without duly 
taking their perspectives into account. We welcome the 
fact that in the course of those consultations in Vienna, 
member States were able to reach a consensus decision 
on the proposal put forth by Russia. We emphasize the 
importance of collective efforts and close coordination 
between the IAEA Secretariat and the Agency’s member 
States, including on preparation of the annual reports.
The  Russian  delegation  supports  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.7,  on  the  report  of  the  IAEA,  and  we  are 
among  its  sponsors.  We  stress  the  importance  of  the 
Agency’s work to achieve reliable energy supplies and 
to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Mr. Hashmi (Pakistan): We commend Mr. Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), for his leadership. We value the 
Agency’s role in promoting the key statutory objective 
of  enhancing  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to 
peace, health and prosperity throughout the world. The 
delegation of Pakistan is pleased to co-sponsor the draft 
resolution on the report of the IAEA (A/69/L.7).
The  Agency  projects  that  by  2030,  the  world’s 
nuclear power generation capacity is expected to grow 
by 17 per cent at least and by 94 per cent at most, despite 
the justifiable public anxiety that arose in the wake of 
the Fukushima incident. We share this assessment.
In  the  past  five  decades,  Pakistan  has  sought 
to  harness  nuclear  technology  for  our  development 
priorities,  in  collaboration  with  the  Agency.  Pakistan 
has also been one of the beneficiaries of the technical 
cooperation  programme.  Pakistan  is  facing  a  severe 
energy  deficit,  as  the  industrial,  agricultural  and 
consumer  demand  for  electricity  has  increased  with 
the  growing  population.  To  meet  that  demand  we  are 
tapping into all sources - hydropower, solar and wind 
power  and  nuclear  energy.  According  to  Pakistan’s 
Nuclear  Energy  Vision  2050,  we  envisage  nuclear 
power generation of 40,000 megawatts.
In  Pakistan,  there  are  five  operational  nuclear 
facilities,  which  include  three  nuclear  power  plants 
and  two  research  reactors.  The  oldest  of  those  was 
commissioned in 1972. Besides those plants, two more, 
producing  340  megawatts  each,  are  expected  to  be 
commissioned by 2016. We have experience spanning 
four decades of safely operating nuclear power plants. 
All nuclear power plants in Pakistan are under IAEA 
safeguards.
In  the  health  sector,  18  nuclear  medicine  and 
oncology  hospitals  are  providing  diagnostics  and 
treatment  to  several  hundred  thousand  patients  each 
year  throughout  the  country.  The  Pakistan  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  has  established  educational  and 
training  programmes  in  radiation  oncology,  nuclear 
medicine and medical physics. In that regard, we note 
with appreciation the role played by the Agency during 
2013  in  cancer  control,  mainly  through  integrated 
missions  in  the  context  of  the  Programme  on  Action 
for Cancer Therapy. In December 2013, an integrated 
mission  came  to  Pakistan  and  visited  several  nuclear 
medical hospitals in the public and private sectors. We 
have now received the draft report of the mission and are 
in the process of implementing its recommendations.
For  a  country  of  over  180  million  people,  food 
security  is  of  critical  importance.  Over  the  past 
50 years, four agricultural centres have been engaged 
in  a  variety  of  research  and  development  activities 
aimed  at  producing  higher  yields  and  better  quality 
10/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
agricultural products. Research and development work 
in the physical sciences and engineering have also led us 
to make important gains in water-resource management 
and  in  the  production  of  most  of  the  radioisotopes 
required by the nuclear medical centres and the private 
sector.
The  Agency’s  partnership  with  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  in 
assisting  interested  Member  States  on  cutting-edge 
food and agricultural issues, as well as in the areas of 
pest  control,  plant  breeding,  genetics,  soil  and  water 
management,  and  environmental  protection,  as  noted 
in the report, should not go unnoticed.
Pakistan  is  willing  to  offer  expert  services  and 
training  facilities  to  other  countries,  in  collaboration 
with the IAEA.
Over the past decade, Pakistan’s nuclear regulatory 
mechanism  has  evolved  into  an  effective  system 
underpinned  by  a  robust  infrastructure.  The  Pakistan 
Nuclear Regulatory Authority has based its regulations 
on the IAEA safety standards. The Authority also offers 
itself for independent peer reviews. An IAEA Integrated 
Regulatory Review Service mission of 25 experts from 
15 countries was conducted early this year.
Pakistan  commends  the  leading  role  that  the 
Agency  has  played  in  harmonizing  and  coordinating 
global efforts, in the wake of the Fukushima accident, 
to improve the nuclear safety of nuclear power plants. 
Following the Fukushima accident, Pakistan conducted 
successful stress tests of our plants and put in place a 
comprehensive  framework  for  all  our  nuclear  power 
plants, called the Fukushima Response Action Plan.
Pakistan  has  been  an  active  participant  in  the 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  process.  That  process  has 
been  a  vital  catalyst  for  nuclear  security.  Pakistan 
attaches  the  highest  importance  to  nuclear  security, 
because  it  is  directly  linked  to  our  national  security. 
The  IAEA  plays  a  central  and  leading  role  in  the 
international  nuclear  security  architecture,  as  well  as 
in the Nuclear Security Summits’ post-2016 successor 
arrangements.
Over  the  years,  Pakistan  has  worked  closely 
with  the  IAEA  to  strengthen  nuclear  security.  We 
are  implementing  our  Nuclear  Security  Action  Plan 
in  cooperation  with  the  IAEA.  Pakistan  attaches  the 
highest importance to ensuring the safety and security 
of  its  nuclear  programme.  We  have  an  unblemished 
record of running a safe, secure and safeguarded civil 
nuclear programme for the past 40 years.
Pakistan’s  nuclear  security  is  supported  by  five 
pillars:  a  strong  command  and  control  system  led 
by  the  National  Command  Authority,  an  integrated 
intelligence  system,  a  rigorous  regulatory  regime, 
a  comprehensive  export  control  regime,  and  active 
international cooperation. Our security regime covers 
physical  protection,  material  control  and  accounting, 
border controls and radiological emergencies.
Pakistan  has  gained  rich  experience  in  the  field 
of  nuclear  security.  We  have  established  a  centre  of 
excellence that conducts specialized courses in nuclear 
security, physical protection and personnel reliability. 
We are ready to share our experiences, best practices 
and  training  facilities  with  other  interested  States  in 
the region and beyond. We have also deployed radiation 
detection mechanisms at several exit and entry points 
to prevent illicit trafficking in radioactive and nuclear 
materials.  Pakistan  is  voluntarily  contributing  to  the 
IAEA  information  resources,  including  the  Incident 
and Trafficking Database.
Pakistan recognizes the important role played by the 
IAEA verification regime. We have fully complied with 
our obligations pursuant to our safeguards agreements 
with the IAEA. The implementation of the regulatory 
aspects of the Agency is important in its own right, and 
safeguards play a key role in that regard. At the same 
time, the promotional activities of the Agency are of the 
highest  priority  for  developing  nations.  The  equitable 
allocation  of  extrabudgetary  resources  is  needed  for 
both  the  safeguards  and  the  technical  cooperation 
programmes of the Agency.
Pakistan believes in an equitable, non-discriminatory 
and criteria-based approach to advancing the universally 
shared  goals  of  non-proliferation  and  the  promotion 
of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Pakistan is an 
active  and  mainstream  international  partner.  We  are 
also  a  State  with  advanced  nuclear  capabilities.  We 
reiterate  our  call  for  the  inclusion  of  Pakistan  in  the 
Nuclear Suppliers Group.
Ms.  AlGharabally  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
The  agenda  item  under  consideration  by  the  General 
Assembly is of great importance, given its close links 
to  the  principles  for  which  the  United  Nations  was 
established, especially the maintenance of international 
peace and security, and its relevance to efforts to limit 
14-60057
11/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
the  proliferation  of  the  non-peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.
The  State  of  Kuwait,  having  studied  the  annual 
report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) for 2013 (see A/69/255), welcomes that valuable 
document  and  expresses  its  sincere  appreciation  and 
gratitude to the Director General of the Agency and all 
of its staff for their vigorous efforts in promoting the 
role of the Agency. Their efforts have enabled the work 
of the Agency in harnessing nuclear energy for peace, 
health and prosperity throughout the world to go from 
strength to strength. 
The State of Kuwait congratulates the Union of the 
Comoros,  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  the  Cooperative 
Republic  of  Guyana  and  Vanuatu  for  acceding  to 
membership  in  the  Agency,  and  we  wish  them  every 
success.
This year coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of 
Kuwait’s accession to the IAEA. The State of Kuwait has 
since then sought to cooperate closely with the Agency 
and  to  support  all  of  its  programmes  and  activities 
relating  to  the  development  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy in the interests of States and in various 
fields of development. The demands of socioeconomic 
development around the world in the ensuing decades 
has  led  to  an  inevitable  increase  in  the  demand  for 
energy. Since nuclear energy is a supplementary source 
and not a substitute for other sources of energy, it is an 
option whose use is defined by States’ national policies 
in  accordance  with  their  capacities  and  requirements. 
The State of Kuwait participates effectively in and will 
cooperate with the various departments in the Agency in 
their efforts to assist States in the use of nuclear energy 
and  in  developing  their  capacities  and  the  necessary 
national  institutions.  Moreover,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
cooperates  with  the  States  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council in the implementation of joint programmes for 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Since acceding to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  Kuwait  has  sought,  in  constant 
coordination with the IAEA Department of Technical 
Cooperation,  to  establish  national  laboratories  to 
measure  the  levels  of  isotopes  in  Kuwait’s  soil  and 
water  and  to  build  our  national  capacities,  given  the 
importance  we  ascribe  to  the  training  of  personnel 
at  the  national  level  qualified  in  the  safe  use  of 
radiological  substances.  Furthermore,  Kuwait,  based 
on its commitment to working actively with the IAEA, 
seeks to coordinate and work with the Department of 
Technical Cooperation within the common programme 
adopted  in  2014.  Six  specialized  national  agencies 
and  programmes  have  been  working  in  various  fields 
during the 2014-2015 period, covering several activities 
and State institutions.
importance 
to 
Kuwait 
attaches  great 
the 
establishment  of  the  Agency’s  nuclear  fuel  bank, 
which  seeks  to  provide  member  States  with  uranium 
fuel in the event of its commercial scarcity. Kuwait has 
given $10 million in support of that project and looks 
forward to the increasing role of the fuel bank as soon 
as possible. 
Kuwait attaches the utmost importance to questions 
of  validity  for  the  safety  and  security  of  radiological 
sources  and  nuclear  material  and  to  the  need  to 
establish  and  implement  regulations  that  will  tighten 
controls on and supervision of the movements of those 
substances.My country has studied the Agency’s report 
in that regard and has followed with great interest its 
Integrated  Nuclear  Security  Support  Plans.  A  recent 
event  was  the  IAEA  ministerial-level  International  
Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  held  in  Vienna,  in 
which Kuwait participated because of its commitment 
to follow international efforts to promote nuclear safety 
and security. The vital and important role of the Agency 
in  preventing  the  military  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and 
in  securing  peaceful  uses  cannot  be  ensured  without 
concerted international efforts.
refusal  constitutes  a 
The  Middle  East  region  will  not  achieve  its 
objectives  of  security  and  stability  as  long  as  Israel 
remains  the  sole  State  refusing  to  place  its  nuclear 
installations  under  the  safeguards  regime  of  the 
Agency.  That 
fundamental 
impediment  to  the  conclusion  of  a  universal  treaty 
to  limit  nuclear  proliferation  and  deeply  disrupts 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime.  In 
addition,  the  continuance  of  that  abnormal  situation 
serves  as  a  motive  for  other  States  to  seek  to  acquire 
nuclear  weapons  on  the  pretext  that  the  international 
community  has  been  quite  relaxed  in  dealing  with 
States  that  refuse  to  place  their  nuclear  installations 
and reactors under international inspection. In view of 
the Israeli intransigence, my delegation calls upon the 
international  community  to  pressure  Israel  to  accede 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons and to place all its nuclear installations under 
the safeguards regime of the Agency.
We  affirm  the  right  of  all  States  to  acquire  the 
necessary  technology  and  expertise  for  the  peaceful 
12/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
uses of nuclear energy, but we also seek to render the 
Middle East, including the Gulf region, free of nuclear 
weapons and weapons of mass destruction. We therefore 
welcome the statement in the Director General’s report 
regarding  the  efforts  by  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
to  implement  a  number  of  scientific  measures  in 
accordance with the cooperation framework agreed on 
11 November 2013 between the Agency and Iran. That 
cooperation seeks to build the confidence sought by the 
international  community  that  adverse  consequences 
can be avoided in the future.
We should also like to affirm the need for a diplomatic 
solution  as  the  basis  for  any  future  approach  to  that 
programme.  Therefore,  my  delegation  encourages  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  continue  its  transparent 
cooperation  with  the  Agency  and  to  answer  the 
Agency’s  inquiries  so  as  to  dispel  doubts,  fears  and 
misgivings about the nature of its nuclear programme 
and to deal with all outstanding issues and implement 
all items relevant to the requirements of the Agency and 
the relevant international resolutions.
In  conclusion,  I  cannot  but  express  my  country’s 
hope  that  the  international  community  will  continue 
its  support  for  the  IAEA  in  its  work  for  the  full, 
non-selective  implementation  of  all  treaties  relevant 
to  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Ms. Lim Ming Jing (Singapore): Singapore thanks 
the Director General of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA) for the Agency’s comprehensive annual 
report  (see  A/69/255).  Singapore  has  consistently 
supported the three pillars of the IAEA’s work: safety 
and  security,  science  and  technology,  and  safeguards 
and  verification.  We  are  pleased 
to  once  again 
co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the 
IAEA (A/69/L.7).
The  importance  of  the  IAEA’s  work  cannot  be 
overstated. Nuclear incidents or accidents, as well as acts 
of nuclear terrorism, have grave humanitarian impacts. 
They  can  also  cripple  economies  and  compromise 
security.  An  international  framework  agreement  on 
nuclear  security  and  safety  is  therefore  crucial.  The 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material, as the only legally binding undertaking in the 
area of the physical protection of nuclear material, helps 
to  fulfil  that  purpose.  Singapore  formally  deposited 
our instrument of accession to the Convention and our 
instrument  of  acceptance  of  its  2005  Amendment  on 
22  September.  Singapore  is  committed  to  playing  its 
part  in  the  global  effort  to  promote  nuclear  security. 
We strongly encourage Member States that have not yet 
done so to accede to the Convention and its Amendment.
We  also  note  that  not  all  IAEA  member  States 
are  contracting  parties  to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear 
Safety.  We  strongly  encourage  all  remaining  member 
States  to  become  contracting  parties,  in  particular 
countries embarking on or already possessing a nuclear 
power programme. 
The  Sixth  Review  Meeting  of  the  Contracting 
Parties  to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety  earlier 
this  year  adopted  important  decisions  to  strengthen 
the  international  nuclear  safety  framework.  One  such 
decision  was  to  convene  a  diplomatic  conference  to 
discuss  the  proposal  by  Switzerland  to  amend  article 
18  of  the  Convention.  Singapore  strongly  supports 
the  Swiss  proposal,  because  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
nuclear accident is a stark reminder of the importance 
of  preventing  off-site  contamination  in  the  event  of 
nuclear  accidents.  We  urge  all  contracting  parties 
to  do  so  as  well.  As  we  know,  nuclear  safety  is  of 
paramount importance and should not be undermined 
by commercial or other considerations.
is  a 
Strengthening  nuclear  safety 
long-term, 
ongoing effort, and we cannot afford to be complacent. 
We  understand  that  the  IAEA  Secretariat  intends  to 
wind down the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety and 
merge elements of it with its regular programmes. Even 
so, we hope the secretariat will continue to emphasize 
the 12 items in the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety 
in  its  regular  programmes.  In  that  regard,  we  look 
forward to the publication of the IAEA’s comprehensive 
report on the Fukushima nuclear accident.
My delegation firmly believes in the importance of 
strengthening regional cooperation on nuclear issues. In 
South-East Asia, we have strengthened cooperation on 
nuclear safety by sharing radiation monitoring data and 
collaborating on emergency preparedness and response 
through  the  platform  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations Network of Nuclear Regulatory Bodies 
on Atomic Energy. We also participate actively in other 
relevant multilateral and regional initiatives, including 
the  Container  Security  Initiative,  the  Proliferation 
Security  Initiative,  the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat 
Nuclear Terrorism and the Asian Senior-level Talks on 
Non-Proliferation.
While Singapore supports the right of all sovereign 
States to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, that 
14-60057
13/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
must be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT). Therefore, my delegation is concerned 
that several countries still remain outside the ambit of 
the  NPT  and  calls  upon  those  States  to  accede  to  the 
NPT as soon as possible. 
We are encouraged by the positive developments on 
the Iranian nuclear dossier in the past year, which may 
address  the  international  community’s  concerns  over 
the  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme.  However,  we 
note that Iran has not fully implemented measures that 
were agreed on in the third phase of the Framework of 
Cooperation, nor has it responded to the IAEA’s request 
to propose new practical measures for the next phase. 
We  strongly  encourage  Iran  to  implement  all  agreed 
measures in good time, and we hope that an agreement 
on  the  next  set  of  practical  measures  will  be  reached 
soon. 
In  addition,  we  urge  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  return  to  the  NPT,  to  fully 
comply  with  all  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
and  to  cooperate  promptly  with  the  IAEA  in  the  full 
and  effective  implementation  of  its  comprehensive 
safeguards obligations.
My delegation also notes that nuclear disarmament 
is  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  NPT.  In  that  regard, 
Singapore strongly supports the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones as an important confidence-building 
measure, and we seek to preserve South-East Asia as a 
zone free of nuclear weapons. We therefore call on the 
nuclear-weapon States to accede to the Protocol to the 
Southeast  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty  as 
early as possible, and without reservations.
in  developing 
Finally,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the  IAEA’s 
important  contributions 
innovative 
and  peaceful  applications  for  nuclear  technology  that 
help  tackle  serious  global  challenges,  ranging  from 
climate change and food security to health. That area 
of the IAEA’s work, including its collaboration with the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  on  using  nuclear 
technology  to  improve  food  security,  deserves  more 
attention and support, especially in view of the current 
strong  emphasis  on  sustainable  development  and  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
In  that  regard,  Singapore  has  been  a  long-time 
collaborator  with  the  IAEA  in  providing  technical 
assistance  to  other  member  States  through  scientific 
visits,  fellowship  attachments  and  regional  events 
in  subjects  ranging  from  nuclear  medicine  and 
radiotherapy to radiation protection. We also welcome 
the  establishment  of  the  IAEA’s  Ocean  Acidification 
International  Coordination  Centre 
the 
growing  problem  of  ocean  acidification.  Singapore 
will continue to seek new areas of cooperation with the 
IAEA in order to provide relevant technical assistance 
to member States.
to  address 
I  reaffirm  Singapore’s  continued  support  of  the 
IAEA’s work.
Mr. Lazarev (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): First of 
all, on behalf of the delegation of Belarus I would like to 
thank the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Amano,  for  introducing 
the report of the Agency for 2013 (see A/69/255).
The  IAEA  is  continuing  to  duly  carry  out  its 
important role in support of the nuclear non-proliferation 
regime  based  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  in  assisting  member 
States to realize their rights and fully enjoy the benefits 
of the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Belarus notes the 
importance of not only further improving the Agency’s 
safeguards system in order to increase its effectiveness, 
but  also  ensuring  member  States’  confidence  in  the 
objectivity of the existing system.
The  IAEA’s  annual  report  mentions  the  fact  that 
in 2013 Belarus began building its first nuclear power 
plant  and  that  it  was  the  second  country  in  the  past 
30  years  to  do  so.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
strict  compliance  of  our  country  with  international 
norms  and  standards  and  the  priority  that  we  give  to 
ensuring  nuclear  safety,  as  well  as  our  openness  and 
preparedness for dialogue with interested countries and 
international  organizations  on  the  completion  of  the 
Belarusian nuclear power plant project. At the current 
stage of our national nuclear energy programme, which 
has very great potential for practical use, we reaffirm 
our intention to use the services that the Agency offers 
to countries new to the development of nuclear energy, 
and we welcome advisory missions.
Belarus emphasizes the importance of the Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  mechanisms  and  the  need  to 
continue and broaden such programmes at the IAEA. 
the 
The  participation  of 
IAEA  and  other 
international  organizations  in  multilateral  efforts  to 
rehabilitate and sustainably develop the areas that were 
affected by the Chernobyl disaster is still relevant. The 
relevant  regional  technical  cooperation  projects  with 
14/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
the  Agency  are  making  a  significant  contribution  to 
international cooperation on Chernobyl. It is important 
that, as that cooperation continues, the IAEA continues 
to  coordinate  its  actions  with  other  international 
organizations and donor countries that are involved in 
cooperation on Chernobyl.
In conclusion, we would like to note that Belarus 
supports draft resolution A/69/L.7, which takes note of 
the report of the IAEA, and that Belarus is one of its 
sponsors.
Mr.  Kibret  (Ethiopia):  I  would  like  first  and 
foremost  to  thank  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  for  its  comprehensive  annual  report 
for 2013 (see A/69/255), which highlights the outcomes 
of the Agency’s wide-ranging and important activities 
conducted during the year. I would also like to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  continued  commitment  and 
leadership  of  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA, 
Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano,  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
science  and  technology  and  their  applications  for  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  Under  his  leadership 
the Agency continues to complement and encourage the 
efforts of member States in taking concrete measures to 
promote nuclear disarmament.
Ethiopia  commends  the  IAEA  for  its  ongoing 
efforts  in  discharging  its  responsibilities  to  help 
member  States  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes.  We  believe  that  the  IAEA’s  three  pillars  - 
nuclear  technology  and  its  application,  nuclear  safety 
and  security,  and  nuclear  verification  and  technical 
cooperation - will continue to play a key role as catalysts 
for  sustainable  development  by  promoting  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy  while  minimizing  the  risk  of 
nuclear  proliferation.  On  the  other  hand,  the  IAEA’s 
Technical Cooperation Programme for the preservation 
and management of nuclear knowledge continues to be 
a high priority for many member States. In that regard, 
the  development  of  nuclear  power  projects  and  the 
promotion  of  the  application  of  nuclear  technology  to 
medicine,  particularly  for  human  health,  and  to  food 
and agriculture and the protection of the environment, 
are worth mentioning.
international  cooperation  are  essential 
We are also of the view that both national measures 
and 
for 
nuclear and radiation safety. We would further like to 
emphasize  that  the  Agency  has  a  key  role  to  play  in 
the promotion of a global security and safety culture. 
In  that  regard,  the  Agency’s  safeguards  are  believed 
to  be  basic  components  of 
the  non-proliferation 
regime  and  to  create  an  environment  conducive  to 
peaceful  nuclear  use  and  safety.  Furthermore,  the 
collaborative  efforts  of  member  States,  the  IAEA, 
other  treaty  bodies,  other  international  organizations 
and civil society in responding to the serious security 
threats  from  non-State  actors,  particularly  terrorists 
who  seek  to  acquire  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
are critical. Similarly, the implementation of Security 
Council resolutions 1540 (2004) and 1887 (2009) is also 
essential in addressing the challenges associated with 
the  prevention  of  the  possession  of  nuclear  and  other 
related dangerous weapons by non-State entities.
In  Ethiopia,  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
continues to significantly support Government efforts 
to  develop  capabilities  in  the  areas  of  the  control 
of  tsetse  flies,  cancer  treatment,  diagnostic  nuclear 
medicine  services, 
isotope  hydrological  analysis, 
non-destructive  quality  testing  and  national  nuclear 
science  and 
infrastructure.  We  have 
improved  our  capacities  through  manpower  training, 
equipment acquisition, expert missions and other forms 
of technical assistance from the IAEA.
technology 
As  a  signatory  to  a  number  of  IAEA  treaties  and 
conventions,  Ethiopia  has  always  been  supportive  of 
the Agency’s advocacy for the peaceful use of nuclear 
technology. We also firmly believe that sufficient and 
predictable  resources  for  the  Agency’s  programmes 
and,  more 
the  balanced  distribution 
of  resources  to  the  safeguards,  nuclear  safety  and 
technical cooperation activities of the Agency need to 
be ensured. The Technical Cooperation Programme is 
in fact playing a crucial role in the transfer of nuclear 
technology to developing countries like Ethiopia.
importantly, 
to 
increasing 
livestock  production 
Our biggest technical cooperation project with the 
IAEA  is  aimed  at  eradicating  the  tsetse  fly  from  the 
Southern Rift Valley region. The wide-ranging nature 
of the disease still poses a serious threat to the lives and 
livelihoods of our communities and is also a significant 
constraint 
in 
Ethiopia. However, the tsetse fly eradication project that 
is currently under way has enabled us to make notable 
progress in addressing this deadly cattle disease. As a 
result, substantial numbers of communities have been 
benefiting from the project through expansion of their 
farmland  and  livestock-keeping.  With  the  technical 
and  financial  assistance  of  the  IAEA,  an  industrial 
irradiator  was  also  installed  and  inaugurated,  in  July 
2014.
14-60057
15/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
With regard to the Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy,  Ethiopia  commends  the  IAEA  for  its  role 
and  continued  support  in  establishing  comprehensive 
cancer-control programmes at Black Lion Specialized 
Hospital,  which  serves  all  referral  patients  from  all 
over the country. However, in view of the complex and 
challenging  nature  of  the  disease  of  cancer,  we  wish 
to request the continued cooperation of the Agency in 
establishing  more  radiotherapy  and  nuclear-medicine 
services in five other university hospitals in Ethiopia.
On the other hand, the isotope hydrology laboratory 
situated  at  Addis  Ababa  University  is  providing 
invaluable  services 
to  postgraduate  students  and 
national isotopic research workers. The university has 
also been selected to host scientific visits and training 
for  fellows  from  Malawi  and  Lesotho.  Currently, 
however, the laboratory is not yet in a position to carry 
out  carbon-13  and  carbon-14  analysis.  We  have  thus 
sent samples to the IAEA and are waiting for the results 
to be sent back. Hence, we need the IAEA’s assistance 
to  strengthen  our  national  capacity  by  making  the 
required facilities available to the laboratory.
We  firmly  believe  that  the  provision  of  sufficient 
and  predictable  resources  to  the  programmes  of  the 
Agency and, more importantly, the balanced distribution 
of  resources  to  the  safeguards,  nuclear  safety  and 
technical cooperation activities of the Agency need to be 
ensured. We are also of the opinion that the safeguards 
and verification aspects of the Agency vividly illustrate 
the importance of the Agency’s continued vigilance and 
contributions to the maintenance of international peace 
and security. Similarly, Ethiopia strongly supports the 
right of all States to have full use of nuclear technology 
and  its  scientific  application  in  accordance  with  the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
We recognize that the development of new nuclear 
technology has immense benefits that can promote the 
social and development agendas by supporting national 
endeavours.  It  is  in  that  context  that  Ethiopia  values 
the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  the  transfer  and  sharing  of 
technology and experience as vital towards achieving 
socioeconomic objectives and the goals of developing 
countries such as Ethiopia. It is precisely for this and the 
other reasons mentioned earlier that we will continue to 
look forward to further strengthening our cooperation 
with the IAEA.
Finally, Ethiopia, as in the past, is glad to continue 
to join the sponsor States of the draft resolution on the 
report of the IAEA (A/69/L.7).
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  report  on  the  work 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
(seeA/69/255), introduced by Director General Yukiya 
Amano.
Over  the  past  year,  the  IAEA  has  been  diligently 
fulfilling  its  duties  under  its  Statute  and  has  made 
great  efforts  and  substantial  achievements  in  such 
areas  as  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and 
technology, strengthening nuclear safety and security, 
and  promoting  non-proliferation.  China  would  like  to 
acknowledge this fact.
This  year  marks  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
China’s  membership  in  the  IAEA.  During  the  past 
30 years, the Chinese Government has been developing 
nuclear  energy  in  an  efficient  and  safe  manner  under 
the principle of placing equal emphasis on development 
and  security.  China  and  the  IAEA  have  carried  out 
comprehensive cooperation at multiple levels in various 
areas, and that has contributed to the peaceful, broad 
and safe use of nuclear energy in China and around the 
world. Recently, upon the convening of the fifty-eighth 
session  of  the  IAEA  General  Conference,  Chinese 
Premier Li Kexiang sent a message of congratulations 
commending  the  fruitful  results  of  the  cooperation 
between China and the IAEA.
We  are  glad  to  see  that  in  today’s  world  the 
development  of  nuclear  energy  has  maintained  its 
momentum.  The  application  of  nuclear  technology  is 
increasingly broad and nuclear safeguards are applied 
to  more  facilities,  with  nuclear  safety  and  security 
further strengthened as a result. More and more people 
are benefiting from this process.
Meanwhile, 
international  efforts 
for  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  nuclear  security  are  still 
confronted  with  challenges,  and  the  risk  of  nuclear 
terrorism cannot be ignored. 
The IAEA has a formidable task ahead of it. China 
hopes  that  the  Agency  will  focus  on  the  following 
aspects in its future work.
First, it should deepen cooperation in nuclear energy 
and  technology.  We  encourage  the  IAEA  to  increase 
input  in  this  area,  with  a  view  to  helping  member 
States meet their growing needs for the peaecful uses 
of nuclear energy. In particular, support and assistance 
should be provided to the developing countries, so that 
they may also enjoy the benefits derived from nuclear 
16/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
energy  development.  China  is  willing  to  share  the 
results and experience it has gained in this regard.
Co-operative Republic of Guyana and the Republic of 
Vanuatu as new members of the IAEA.
Secondly,  it  should  enhance  nuclear  safety  and 
security.  With  respect  to  nuclear  safety,  the  Agency 
should  require  the  Japanese  Government  to  expedite 
its  efforts  in  dealing  with  the  consequences  of  the 
Fukushima nuclear accident, and assist it in doing so. 
The  Agency  should  also  closely  follow  the  progress 
made,  review  the  effects  of  work  in  that  area  and 
provide  updates  to  the  international  community  in  a 
timely manner.
The Government of Japan would like to express its 
gratitude once again for the great support and assistance 
provided  by  the  international  community  for  more 
than three and a half years since the Great East Japan 
Earthquake and its resulting tsunamis and the accident 
at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  Nuclear  Power  Station  of 
the  Tokyo  Electric  Power  Company.  Managing  the 
aftermath  of  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident  remains 
an important task for us.
Concerning nuclear security, with the prospect of 
the Nuclear Security Summit process possibly ending 
in 2016, the Agency should fully prepare itself to play 
a primary role in the area of nuclear security and make 
contributions to the establishment of a fair, reasonable 
and win-win international security architecture.
Thirdly,  the  Agency  should  steadily  improve  its 
safeguards  regime.  The  application  of  its  safeguards 
should  first  and  foremost  be  objective  and  impartial. 
It  is  on  this  basis  that  efforts  should  be  made  to 
further enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
safeguards  regime.  China  welcomes  the  fact  that  the 
Secretariat has exchanged views with member States on 
the State-level Safeguards Concept. China believes that 
adjustments to the safeguards measures should be made 
only after full consultations among member States.
Fourthly, 
the  Agency  should  objectively  and 
impartially deal with hot-spot issues. China encourages 
it to play a constructive role in settling regional nuclear 
issues peacefully through dialogue and consultations in 
accordance with its mandate. China will always support 
the IAEA in its efforts to fully and effectively fulfil its 
duties mandated by the IAEA Statute and contribute to 
world peace and development.
Mr.  Okamura 
(Japan):  Let  me  begin  by 
thanking  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
presenting  the  IAEA’s  annual  report  (see  A/69/255). 
We deeply appreciate the work of the Agency to further 
promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and ensure 
non-proliferation  through  strengthening  the  IAEA 
safeguards  system.  We  commend  Director  General 
Amano  for  his  leadership  and  the  Secretariat  for  its 
tireless efforts to fulfil its mandate. We will continue 
to support their efforts as much as we can.
The  Government  of  Japan  also  welcomes  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros,  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  the 
In  September  last  year,  the  Government  of  Japan 
developed a basic policy for the fundamental resolution 
of  the  contaminated  water  issue  and  has  been  taking 
measures based on that policy in a step-by-step manner. 
The  Government  formulated  multilayered  preventive 
plans  to  manage  the  issue.  The  entire  Government 
is  determined  to  continue  working  in  an  integrated 
manner to solve the contaminated-water issue.
The dissemination of information to the international 
community  remains  as  crucial  as  its  dissemination 
within  Japan.  We  are  striving  to  provide  as  much 
information as possible to the international community 
and  to  maintain  transparency.  For  that  purpose,  we 
have  been  publishing  marine  monitoring  results  on  a 
daily  basis.  Together  with  the  updates  regarding  the 
decommissioning  process  and  the  countermeasures 
for contaminated water, comprehensive information is 
reported to the IAEA on a regular basis and made public 
through  the  IAEA’s  website.  Furthermore,  we  have 
assured  food  safety  by  strengthening  administrative 
systems.  A  report  on  the  safety  of  fishery  products, 
covering  all  developments  on  the  matter  after  the 
accident,  was  issued  and  made  available  to  the 
international community in May.
The Government of Japan attaches great importance 
to the promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
one of the pillars of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  and  highly  appreciates  the 
Agency’s activities in non-power applications of nuclear 
technologies. Japan acknowledges with satisfaction that 
tangible outcomes have been achieved through Director 
General  Amano’s  initiatives  to  promote  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear technology in the areas of human health 
and  nutrition.  They  include  cancer  control  through 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy  and 
initiatives  in  the  areas  of  food  and  agriculture,  water 
management and the environment. Japan will continue 
to support that beneficial work.
14-60057
17/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
The  Renovation  of 
the  Nuclear  Applications 
Laboratories  Project  of  the  IAEA  is  of  benefit  to  all 
Member  States.  Japan  would  like  to  call  upon  all 
Member  States  to  cooperate  in  supporting  it.  Japan 
contributed €500,000 to it last year and is considering a 
further contribution.
It is our country’s responsibility to contribute to the 
improvement  of  nuclear  safety  in  the  world.  Japan  is 
determined  to  further  contribute  to  the  strengthening 
of  nuclear  safety  worldwide  by  sharing  with  the 
international  community  the  experience  and  lessons 
learned from the Fukushima Daiichi accident.
The Government of Japan attaches great importance 
to the steady implementation of the IAEA Action Plan 
on  Nuclear  Safety,  adopted  in  September  2011.  As 
part  of  its  implementation  and  in  order  to  improve 
the effectiveness of the international legal framework 
-  one  of  the  12  main  actions  of  the  Action  Plan -  we 
expressed our intention to conclude the Convention on 
Supplementary  Compensation  for  Nuclear  Damage. 
We strongly believe that doing so would contribute to 
the  establishment  of  a  global  framework  for  nuclear 
liability. Also, Japan will continue to actively cooperate 
with  the  IAEA  to  formulate  the  IAEA  Fukushima 
report.
its 
Japan  continuously  contributes 
to 
improving 
nuclear  security  domestically  and 
internationally. 
Japan  deposited 
instrument  of  acceptance  of 
the  Amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material on 27 June. In addition, 
Japan  will  receive  an  IAEA  International  Physical 
Protection Advisory Service mission in February next 
year. Japan has supported and continues to support the 
strengthening of the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
IAEA safeguards system. We continue to advocate the 
universalization of the additional protocol.
North  Korea’s  continued  nuclear  and  missile 
development  is  of  grave  concern  not  only  to  North-
East  Asia,  but  to  the  whole  international  community. 
Japan  once  again  hereby  stresses  that  North  Korea 
must abandon all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear 
programmes,  including  its  uranium  enrichment,  in 
a  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible  manner  and 
must immediately suspend all related activities. Japan 
strongly  urges  North  Korea  to  take  concrete  actions 
towards  denuclearization,  to  refrain  from  any  further 
provocative acts and to fully comply with the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  2005  Joint 
Statement  of  the  fourth  round  of  the  Six-Party  Talks. 
Japan fully supports the IAEA’s continued involvement 
on that issue.
With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  Japan 
fully  supports  the  efforts  by  the  E3+3  Governments 
in  pursuit  of  a  final  and  comprehensive  resolution 
of  the  issue.  Japan  fully  supports  the  IAEA’s  role  in 
that  matter,  especially  in  verification  and  monitoring 
activities  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  the  exclusively 
peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  as  well 
as its efforts to resolve all outstanding issues, including 
possible military dimensions.
In conclusion, Japan expresses its firm determination 
to continue to conduct peaceful nuclear activities while 
ensuring  safeguards,  non-proliferation,  nuclear  safety 
and  nuclear  security,  and  to  contribute  further  to  the 
promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Mr. Al Musharakh (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): At the outset, I would like to thank Mr. Yukiya 
Amano.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  would  also  like 
to  announce  its  support  for  and  sponsorship  of  draft 
resolution A/69/L.7, on the report of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) (see A/69/255).
recognizes 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
the 
indispensable  role  of  the  IAEA  in  assisting  Member 
States in the transfer of nuclear knowledge for peaceful 
uses in all fields of nuclear applications and appreciates 
the  Agency’s  role  in  supporting  member  countries’ 
national needs and providing them with the necessary 
technical  support.  My  country  also  recognizes  the 
Agency’s efforts to ensure the credibility and efficiency 
of the safeguards system, as the full implementation of 
safeguards  and  the  commitment  to  non-proliferation 
are  fundamental  to  the  development  of  any  nuclear 
programme.
The United Arab Emirates places great emphasis on 
nuclear safety. We have been committed to implementing 
the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. We continue 
to  make  significant  progress  in  the  development  of  a 
peaceful  nuclear  power  programme.  Early  lessons 
learned have been applied in the United Arab Emirates 
following  the  accident  at  Japan’s  Fukushima  plant  in 
2011.  Quick  action  was  taken  with  a  comprehensive 
safety assessment of the Barakah Nuclear Power Plant 
reactors  currently  under  construction.  My  delegation 
looks forward to benefiting from the IAEA Fukushima 
Daiichi lessons-learned report as soon as it is published.
The United Arab Emirates continues to support the 
Agency’s  work  through  its  participation  in  the  IAEA 
18/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
Commission  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  through  hosting 
several  IAEA  peer  review  missions  to  strengthen  its 
nuclear safety infrastructure. Moreover, we encourage 
member  States  to  utilize  peer  reviews  to  strengthen 
their  national  nuclear  infrastructure.  Additionally,  in 
2013  the  United  Arab  Emirates  signed  an  integrated 
work  plan  with  the  Agency  to  coordinate  the  IAEA’s 
technical  support  to  my  country.  The  United  Arab 
Emirates benefits from that support in various fields, 
including nuclear energy, health and agriculture, among 
others.
Along  with  its  great  emphasis  on  international 
instruments  in  the  area  of  nuclear  safety,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  specifically  Abu  Dhabi,  hosted  the 
International Conference on the Safety and Security of 
Radioactive Sources in October 2013. That Conference 
marked the 10-year anniversary of the Code of Conduct 
on the Safety and Security of Radioactive Sources, and 
the  Conference  highlighted  significant  progress  made 
worldwide in implementing the provisions of the Code. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  endorsed  the  Code  of 
Conduct and its Supplementary Guidance on the Import 
and Export of Radioactive Sources, and has submitted 
its national implementation report.
In  the  area  of  civil  liability  for  nuclear  damage, 
in  2012  the  United  Arab  Emirates  joined  the  1997 
Protocol  to  Amend  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Civil 
Liability  for  Nuclear  Damage  and  the  Joint  Protocol 
Relating to the Application of the Vienna Convention 
and  Paris  Convention.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
also recently ratified the Convention on Supplementary 
Compensation for Nuclear Damage, based on its belief 
in  the  importance  of  establishing  a  national  liability 
framework  and  a  harmonized  international  liability 
regime.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  adopted  clear 
positions on disarmament and non-proliferation issues, 
based on its firm belief in the importance of achieving 
the  objectives  of  international  peace  and  security. 
My  country  believes  that  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  requires  transparency  and  commitment  with 
regard  to  the  obligations  of  non-proliferation.  That 
is  why  accession  to,  and  the  full  implementation 
of,  international  agreements  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  are  of  great  importance.  In  that 
regard, we support the Agency’s efforts to ensure the 
credibility and efficiency of the safeguards system, and 
we call upon member States with pending nuclear files 
to cooperate with the Agency and permit verification of 
their peaceful programme and to eliminate any possible 
military dimensions.
The  failure  to  convene  the  conference  on  the 
establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
in  2012,  which  had  been  announced  at  the  2010 
Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  is  a 
disappointment  to  my  country  and  to  countries  in 
the  region  at  large.  We  call  for  the  holding  of  such  a 
conference at an early date. The United Arab Emirates 
will  continue  to  support  and  engage  in  various 
consultations with the facilitator, the conveners and the 
countries of the region so as to make progress on the 
establishment of the Middle East zone free from nuclear 
weapons and from all weapons of mass destruction.
In conclusion, I reiterate my delegation’s willingness 
to fully cooperate with the IAEA and its member States 
in  strengthening  nuclear  safety,  nuclear  security  and 
safeguards  globally,  while  promoting  the  responsible 
use of nuclear energy.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for his comprehensive and informative 
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Agency  (see 
A/69/255),  which  covers  the  period  of  1  January  to 
31 December 2013.
Malaysia reaffirms the principle that the sovereign 
right to use nuclear energy comes with the obligation 
to ensure that it is used in a safe, secure and peaceful 
manner. We remain fully committed to supporting and 
working with the IAEA and other IAEA member States 
and to ensuring the right of countries to the peaceful use 
of nuclear energy, while at the same time fully ensuring 
nuclear non-proliferation, safety and security. Malaysia 
is  fully  cognizant  of  the  need  to  sign  and  ratify  or 
accede  to  the  relevant  multilateral  instruments  aimed 
at ensuring the peaceful, safe and secure use of nuclear 
energy. We are refining our regulatory framework and 
are currently revising the relevant legislation so as to be 
able to enact a comprehensive nuclear law.
Regional cooperation is also an essential aspect for 
Malaysia in our efforts to enhance nuclear regulatory 
control.  Malaysia  continues  to  actively  take  part  in 
the  activities  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
14-60057
19/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
Nations  Network  of  Nuclear  Regulatory  Bodies  or 
Relevant Authorities in order to ensure the successful 
implementation of the Network’s 2014-2015 action plan.
Malaysia  also  supports  initiatives  of  the  IAEA’s 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors 
and Fuel Cycles (INPRO) aimed at ensuring that nuclear 
energy is available to contribute to meeting the energy 
needs  of  the  twenty-first  century  in  a  sustainable 
manner.  My  delegation  further  recognizes  the  efforts 
of  the  Agency  in  publishing  the  INPRO  Action  Plan 
2014-2015.  Malaysia  will  be  actively  participating  in 
INPRO activities in line with that two-year Plan.
Malaysia  has  always  emphasized  the  central  role 
of  the  IAEA  in  the  international  nuclear  security 
architecture. We also recognise the IAEA as the only 
international organization with the capacity to address 
policy  and  the  technical  and  regulatory  aspects  of 
nuclear  security.  In  that  regard,  we  acknowledge  the 
continuous  efforts  by  the  IAEA  to  strengthen  the 
nuclear safety regime and implement its Nuclear Safety 
Action Plan. We also look forward to the finalization of 
the Agency’s comprehensive report on the Fukushima 
Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident.
On  Malaysia’s  part,  we  have  established  our 
national  nuclear  security  regime  through  various 
measures.  As  a  major  trading  nation,  we  are  also 
focusing  on  strengthening  our  detection  capabilities 
at  our  major  ports  of  entry  and  international  borders. 
We  thank  the  IAEA  for  providing  the  expertise  to 
revise  our  Integrated  Nuclear  Security  Support  Plan, 
which  has  further  strengthened  the  infrastructure 
and  human  capacity  development  in  Malaysia.  As  a 
regional Nuclear Security Support Centre, Malaysia is 
pleased  to  continue  our  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
in  disseminating  best  practices  and  sharing 
the 
experiences within the region.
continues 
to 
My  delegation 
accord  high 
importance to the peaceful uses of nuclear science and 
technology in agriculture, biotechnology, industry, the 
environment and medical applications. In that context, 
we  strongly  believe  that  research  and  development 
and  knowledge-sharing  are  the  keys  to  the  successful 
and sustainable development of nuclear technology by 
member States. We therefore recognize the significant 
gains  to  be  made  in  the  projects  being  conducted 
under the Agency’s coordinated research programmes. 
Malaysian  scientists  and  researchers  have  benefitted 
greatly  from  the  hands-on  training  and  research  in 
the  Nuclear  Sciences  and  Applications  Laboratories 
in  Seibersdorf,  Austria.  My  delegation 
therefore 
appreciates  the  recognition  granted  by  the  Agency 
in  inviting  a  Malaysian  expert  to  participate  in  the 
planning stage of the Renovation of the IAEA Nuclear 
Applications Laboratories project.
involving 
This  year  also  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the  collaboration  between  the  IAEA  and  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
(FAO)  through  the  Joint  FAO/IAEA  Division  of 
Nuclear  Techniques  in  Food  and  Agriculture.  During 
the  commemoration  of  that  historic  anniversary  on 
24  September  2014  in  Vienna,  the  Malaysian  Nuclear 
Agency was granted an achievement award to celebrate 
the  successes  and  promotion  of  the  applications 
of  mutation  breeding.  Through  the  use  of  nuclear 
applications 
to 
radiation,  Malaysian  scientists  were  able  to  generate 
desirable traits in plants, such as disease resistance, early 
maturation and better nutrient content. Our partnership 
with the IAEA and FAO has also resulted in progress 
in animal production and health and has been extended 
to the areas of soil and water management and the crop 
nutrition component of food and agriculture. There is 
great  potential  in  such  remarkable  inter-agency  and 
member State collaboration, which can address global 
developmental challenges through civilian applications 
of nuclear technology. Malaysia is pleased to work with 
the IAEA and FAO in resolving such challenges.
the  exposure  of  seeds 
With regard to the Agency’s Technical Cooperation 
Programme,  Malaysia  reiterates  its  strong  support 
for  that  crucial  framework.  Our  position  on  such 
collaboration  is  that  it  should  be  based  on  the  needs 
and requests of member States. The Programme should 
also  continue  to  be  formulated  and  implemented  in 
accordance  with  the  IAEA’s  guiding  principles  as 
well  as  the  decisions  and  resolutions  of  the  Agency’s 
policy-making  organs.  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that 
the  resources  for  the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme  should  be  made  adequate  in  order  to 
ensure  that  all  planned  activities  can  be  implemented 
effectively and efficiently. My delegation welcomes the 
report of the Technical Working Group, on financing the 
Agency’s activities, which emerged from the Technical 
Meeting  on  Topical  Issues  in  the  Development  of 
Nuclear Power Infrastructure, which was held from 4 to 
7 February 2014. We hope that the recommendations of 
the Working Group are successfully implemented so as 
to allow sufficient, assured and predictable funding for 
the Technical Cooperation Programme.
20/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
Malaysia  reaffirms 
its  continued  and  active 
implementation  of  national 
technical  cooperation 
projects  and  of  regional  and  interregional  technical 
cooperation  projects  under  the  current  cycle.  We 
continue  to  collaborate  closely  with  the  Agency  to 
ensure that all project activities are adequately funded. 
We  have  also  contributed  by  providing  training, 
expertise  and  contributions  in  kind  to  other  member 
States. Malaysia also stands ready to offer assistance in 
human capacity development to other countries in the 
Asia-Pacific region. In that connection, my delegation 
is  grateful  for  the  Agency’s  long-standing  confidence 
in  Malaysia,  which  it  has  recognized  by  entrusting 
Malaysia with the hosting of the postgraduate course in 
radiation protection and the safety of radiation sources, 
which is currently in its eleventh cycle.
Malaysia  reaffirms  its  belief  in  the  strengthening 
and  universalization  of  membership  in  the  Agency, 
which will help it to effectively carry out its mandates. 
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes  Comoros, 
Djibouti, Guyana and Vanuatu as new member States 
of the IAEA. As membership in the Agency grows, so 
too do the demands for its services. That will also have 
implications on the existing financial challenges faced 
by the IAEA and its member States. In that connection, 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  underlining  once  again 
Malaysia’s  strong  support  for  the  work  of  the  IAEA. 
We  hope  that  its  member  States  will  also  continue  to 
provide the Agency with the backing it fully deserves.
Mr.  Niyazaliev  (Kyrgyzstan):  At  the  outset,  let 
me  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
for  presenting  the  IAEA’s  annual  report  for  2013 
(see  A/69/255)  and  for  his  statement,  which  included 
additional  information  on  the  principal  developments 
in the Agency’s activities during 2014. The report sets 
forth the achievements of the IAEA and the challenges 
it  will  face  in  the  coming  years.  We  fully  agree  with 
Director  General  Amano,  who  on  22  September, 
at  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the  Agency’s  General 
Conference,  said:  “The  impact  of  our  work  in  the 
daily  lives  of  millions  of  people  around  the  world  is 
extraordinary”.
The Agency’s role is crucial in assisting developing 
countries in using nuclear technology in areas such as 
health,  food  and  agriculture.  No  doubt,  the  continued 
growth  in  the  use  of  nuclear  power  will  require  the 
IAEA’s attention and resources as well. It also plays a 
fundamental  role  in  the  field  of  the  non-proliferation 
through 
In  addition, 
of  nuclear  weapons,  utilizing  its  unique  verification 
mechanism. 
the  Technical 
Cooperation Programme, the Agency helps its member 
States  to  build,  strengthen  and  maintain  capacities  in 
the safe, peaceful and secure use of nuclear technology 
in support of sustainable socioeconomic development. 
We fully support those activities of the IAEA.
It is a pleasure for me, on this occasion, to extend a 
warm welcome to the Union of the Comoros, Djibouti, 
Guyana and Vanuatu as new members of the Agency. 
We  support  the  strengthening  and  universalization  of 
the Agency’s membership. 
My delegation hopes that the next high-level IAEA 
International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  in 
December  2016,  will  be  an  important  opportunity  to 
review progress achieved and to map out work for the 
future.
(spoke in Russian)
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  became  a  member  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in  2003,  based 
on  our  understanding  that  nuclear  technologies  form 
an  important  element  of  State  policy  in  science  and 
technology  and  that  they  can  facilitate  a  country’s 
technological and economic development. 
the  IAEA  adopted  a 
international  obligations.  An 
In  2006,  the  Government  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic 
and 
technical  cooperation 
programme  aimed  at  ensuring  radiation  protection 
and  security  and  at  establishing  effective  regulatory 
bases  and  infrastructure  in  accordance  with  the 
country’s 
important 
element  of  the  programme  involves  carrying  out 
international and regional programmes in radiological 
monitoring, modernizing medicine, implementing and 
using  radio  therapy  and  strengthening  the  capacity 
of  State  institutions.  In  order  to  increase  the  level  of 
coordination of work to prepare and implement IAEA 
programmes  and  projects  in  2013,  the  Government  of 
the Kyrgyz Republic designated a national coordinator 
for  technical  cooperation  with  the  IAEA.  From  8  to 
10 April 2014, Bishkek welcomed a delegation from the 
Agency, led by the Director of the Division for Europe. 
We hope that those efforts will enable relevant issues 
regarding  the  coordination  of  actions  to  be  solved 
and that we will be able to assess the effectiveness of 
current projects and define new areas for cooperation.
The Kyrgyz Republic supports resolution GC (58)/
RES/10 of the fifty-eighth session of the IAEA General 
Conference, on “Measures to strengthen international 
14-60057
21/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
cooperation  in  nuclear,  radiation,  transport  and  waste 
safety”. That resolution encourages the IAEA continue 
its  activities  relating  to  the  safe  geologic  disposal  of 
radioactive waste. 
We  express  our  appreciation  to  donor  countries 
and 
international  and  regional  organizations  and 
financial  institutions,  including  the  IAEA,  that  are 
providing  assistance  to  solve  issues  connected  with 
the uranium tailing sites in Central Asia. In June 2014, 
with the support of the IAEA, a technical meeting of 
the  Coordination  Group  for  Uranium  Legacy  Sites 
was  held  in  Cholpon-Ata,  Kyrgyzstan.  The  meeting 
discussed existing problems in the cooperation between 
international donors and State authorities. 
However,  despite  the  efforts  to  overcome  those 
issues,  the  problem  persists.  The  situation  is  getting 
worse, in that many of the tailings are exposed to the 
threat of landslides and debris flows, as they are located 
in  seismically  active  areas  near  the  banks  of  major 
transboundary  rivers  in  the  region.  We  appeal  to  the 
IAEA to step up its assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic 
to address the problem of radioactive and toxic waste, 
in accordance with last year’s Assembly resolution on 
the role of the international community in averting the 
radiation  threat  in  Central  Asia  (resolution  68/218), 
adopted at the initiative of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  strongly  supports  IAEA 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  member  States 
to use nuclear technology in medicine. We appreciate 
the  assistance  provided  to  developing  countries  to 
gain  access  to  radiotherapy,  medical  physics,  nuclear 
medicine and diagnostic imaging. We would like to note 
the need to strengthen cooperation between Kyrgyzstan 
and the IAEA in the field of health. Cancer is one of 
the leading causes of death in our country. Every year, 
approximately  3,000  people  die  of  cancer.  We  are 
deeply  interested  in  developing  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA  and  other  parties  in  the  application  of  nuclear 
technologies in medicine, especially to treat cancer.
(spoke in English)
to 
The  commitment 
the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons of mass destruction is a fundamental principle 
of the foreign and domestic policy of my country. We 
have adopted effective measures to bolster the national 
export control regime and to strengthen oversight and 
monitoring  of  the  flow  of  materials  and  equipment 
used in the development and manufacture of weapons 
of mass destruction.
international  safeguards  and 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  has  ratified 
the  main 
international  agreements  on  non-proliferation.  We 
regard 
the  physical 
protection  of  nuclear  materials  and  facilities  as  the 
first line of defence against nuclear terrorism. Thus the 
Kyrgyz  Republic  strongly  endorses  the  IAEA  efforts 
to  strengthen  the  international  safeguards  system, 
including  the  adoption  of  the  additional  protocol  as 
the  safeguards  standard.  We  welcome  the  practical 
measures  identified  in  the  communiqués  of  the  2010, 
2012  and  2014  Nuclear  Security  Summits.  Fully 
recognizing the dangers that the possession of weapons 
of mass destruction by terrorist groups would pose, the 
Kyrgyz  Republic  signed  the  International  Convention 
for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004)  is  an 
international  legal  and  political  instrument  of  great 
significance  that  has  real  potential  to  prevent  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The 
Kyrgyz  Republic 
taking  consistent  measures 
to  effectively 
in 
2013  submitted  its  national  plan  of  action  on  the 
implementation of resolution 1540 (2004).
that  resolution,  and 
implement 
is 
One  of 
the  most  promising  approaches 
to 
disarmament and non-proliferation is the establishment 
of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones.  The  Kyrgyz  Republic 
takes pride in the entry into force in 2009 of the Treaty 
on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central  Asia.  We 
welcome the signing by nuclear States of that Treaty’s 
Protocol  on  Negative  Security  Assurances  on  6  May 
2014. The French Republic announced its ratification of 
the Protocol a few days ago, and we urge other nuclear-
weapon  States  to  ratify  it  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
Kyrgyz Republic is the depository of the Protocol and 
is ready to faithfully carry out those functions.
The Kyrgyz Republic fully supports the work and 
mission of the IAEA and will continue to cooperate with 
it  actively.  We  stand  firmly  committed  to  the  IAEA’s 
work towards the peaceful use of nuclear energy in a 
safe and secure manner for the benefit and development 
of humankind and the global community.
Mr. Zehnder (Switzerland) (spoke in French): The 
past year has been an important one for the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a year in which it has 
overcome  a  number  of  challenges.  Other  challenges, 
which are no less important, remain to be addressed in 
the future. Switzerland would like to focus on three of 
them.
22/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
First,  Switzerland  welcomes  the  holding  in  April 
2014  of  the  sixth  Review  Meeting  of  the  Contracting 
Parties to the Convention on Nuclear Safety, organized 
by the IAEA, during which we proposed an amendment 
to the Convention aimed at strengthening the safety of 
new and old nuclear reactors. The States parties decided 
to organize a diplomatic conference in February 2015 
in order to discuss that amendment.
Switzerland  is  aware  of  the  important  issues 
connected with its proposed amendment, which is why 
we have declared our readiness to work on the text of 
the  proposal  in  order  to  find  a  formulation  that  can 
gain consensus. Indeed, more than three years after the 
Fukushima  accident,  the  conference  in  February  will 
provide us with a unique opportunity, not to be missed, 
to  restore  public  confidence  in  the  safety  of  nuclear 
energy  and  in  the  multilateral  instruments  set  up  for 
that purpose.
On the issue of guarantees, Switzerland appreciates 
in  particular  the  work  done  by  the  IAEA  Secretariat 
over  the  course  of  the  past  two  years  on  safeguards 
implementation at the State level and on the quality of 
the dialogue that it has established. It is important for 
us that the State-level concept has lead to improvements 
in  terms  of  costs  and  reduced  workload.  Switzerland 
places  particular  emphasis  on  the  fact  that  those 
improvements are intended not only for the benefit of 
the IAEA, but also for that of the State in question.
Switzerland  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the 
cooperation between the IAEA and Iran since January 
2014.  At  a  time  when  the  Iranian  issue  is  entering  a 
critical phase, Switzerland encourages the Agency and 
Iran  to  continue  strengthening  their  cooperation  in 
order  to  facilitate  the  implementation  of  a  diplomatic 
solution to the satisfaction of all parties.
While each State is responsible for its own nuclear 
security, it is also important that all States address that 
topic all together at the international level. To that end, 
Switzerland calls on all States that have not yet done so 
to ratify the 2005 Amendment to the Convention on the 
Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and the Code 
of Conduct on the Safety and Security of Radioactive 
Sources  as  soon  as  possible,  or  at  least  before  the 
fourth Nuclear Security Summit, scheduled to be held 
in  Washington,  D.C.,  in  2016.  Moreover,  in  order  to 
achieve the goal of nuclear security in a comprehensive 
and  credible  way,  work  should  be  undertaken  to 
strengthen the security of all nuclear materials, be they 
intended for military or for civilian uses.
Switzerland welcomes the decision of the IAEA to 
convene a conference on nuclear security in 2016 and 
notes that, in the international context, the IAEA is the 
only institution recognized by all States to assume such 
a role.
Ms.  Natividad  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
reaffirms its commitment to, and cooperation with, the 
objectives of the International Atomic Agency (IAEA). 
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Agency  (see  A/69/255) 
and  the  balanced  manner  in  which  its  objectives  are 
being pursued. The Philippines welcomes the Union of 
the Comoros, the Republic of Djibouti, the Cooperative 
Republic of Guyana and the Republic of Vanuatu into 
the IAEA.
The Philippines believes that the Agency continues 
to  play  a  vital  role  in  enabling  developing  countries 
such  as  ours  to  use  science  and  technology  for 
development,  as  well  as  in  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  As  Chair  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, Vienna chapter, the Philippines submitted draft 
resolutions  on  behalf  of  the  Group  on  strengthening 
the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation  activities  and  its 
activities  related  to  nuclear  science,  technology  and 
applications.
There is no doubt that the Philippines has benefitted 
from  our  strong  partnership  with  the  IAEA.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  Agency’s  valuable  support  through 
our  various  technical  cooperation  agreements.  We 
are  pleased  to  report  that  the  electron  beam  project, 
which  began  in  2009  with  funding  assistance  from 
both the Agency and the Philippine Government, will 
be inaugurated in December. The project will improve 
the competitiveness of our industry by opening up new 
applications to create new products and by improving 
the quality of industrial materials. In our case, the new 
quarantine  treatment  against  the  mango  pulp  weevil, 
using  gamma  radiation  developed  by  the  Philippine 
Nuclear  Research  Institute,  will  enhance  the  export 
competitiveness of the Philippine super mango.
Our  Technetium-99m  generator  facility  is  also  a 
recipient of technical and financial assistance from the 
IAEA.  It  has  received  its  licence  to  operate  and  will 
be ready by December 2014. The generator production 
facility is expected to cut the cost of hospital procedures 
by  at  least  50  per  cent,  making  diagnostic  tests  more 
affordable,  faster  and  more  accessible  to  a  wider 
segment of the population.
14-60057
23/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
With regard to providing better access to clean and 
safe drinking water, the Philippines takes a pioneering 
role  as  one  of  three  pilot  countries  participating  in 
the  IAEA  Water  Availability  Enhancement  Project, 
which  aims  to  enhance  national  capabilities  to  assess 
the  availability,  quality  and  sustainability  of  water 
resources.
The  Philippines  reiterates  its  strong  commitment 
to  realizing  the  objectives  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  a 
comprehensive  manner.  We  believe  that  there  should 
be  equal  progress  on  all  three  pillars  of  the  Treaty, 
namely,  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  We  look  forward  to 
the 2015 NPT Review Conference, which will allow us 
to review and take stock of our progress and chart the 
way forward.
The Philippines strongly supports the establishment 
of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  as  a  way  to  contribute 
to  global  peace  and  security  and  to  the  end  goal  of 
nuclear  disarmament.  The  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  established  the  South-East 
Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone for that purpose. We 
are  committed  to  continuing  our  dialogue  with  the 
nuclear-weapon  States  to  address  concerns  over  their 
proposed reservations to the protocol to the Treaty. We 
therefore  welcome  the  working-level  meeting  among 
ASEAN member States and the nuclear-weapon States 
on  the  margins  of  the  First  Committee  session.  The 
Philippines looks forward to the nuclear-weapon States’ 
signing and ratifying the protocol without reservation.
Beyond  our  region,  the  Philippines  is  especially 
interested in securing lasting peace in the Middle East. 
We again call for the convening of a conference on the 
establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
even  before  the  convening  of  the  2015  NPT  Review 
Conference.  We  believe  that  the  convening  of  the 
conference  on  the  Middle  East  will  provide  positive 
momentum to the Review Conference. The Conferences 
on  the  Humanitarian  Impact  of  Nuclear  Weapons  are 
also  providing  such  necessary  impetus.  We  urge  all 
States  to  participate  in  those  discussions,  particularly 
in the upcoming Conference in Vienna in December.
As we pursue our goal of the total elimination of 
nuclear weapons, it is equally important to ensure that 
existing  nuclear  facilities  and  materials  are  safe  and 
secure. The Philippines therefore supports the IAEA’s 
work  to  strengthen  the  global  nuclear  safety  regime 
the  coordination  of 
through  the  efficient  and  effective  implementation  of 
international  legal  instruments,  the  development  of 
safety  standards,  the  enhancement  of  national  safety 
infrastructure, 
international 
emergency  preparedness  and  response  mechanisms 
and  the  promotion  of  a  nuclear  safety  culture.  In  that 
regard,  the  Philippines  co-sponsored  the  resolution 
adopted by the IAEA General Conference on measures 
to  strengthen  international  cooperation  in  nuclear, 
radiation, transport and waste safety.
On  nuclear  safety,  the  Philippines  supports  the 
continuing implementation of the IAEA Action Plan on 
Nuclear Safety and welcomes the progress made with 
the full cooperation of member States, especially in the 
safety assessment worldwide.
We  are  specifically  pleased  with  the  progress 
made in the safety assessments of nuclear power plants 
and  the  conduct  of  the  IAEA’s  peer-review  services 
and  emergency  preparedness  and  response.  As  our 
contribution  in  that  field,  the  Philippines  will  host  a 
national  workshop  on  nuclear  security  information 
management systems from 25 to 26 November.
My  country  also  looks  forward  to  the  conduct  of 
an  Integrated  Nuclear  Security  Support  Plan  review 
meeting in Manila at the end of this month, which will 
focus on the Agency’s assistance in the establishment 
of the national nuclear security support centre.
The Philippines is also requesting an International 
Nuclear Security Advisory Service mission focused on 
nuclear security at major public events so as to assist 
the Government in preparing for the meeting of Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  Heads  of  State  and 
Government to be held in the Philippines in late 2015.
Our achievements in the various aspects of nuclear 
security  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
support of the IAEA, our partner States, the European 
Union  and  other  organizations.  Our  commitment 
to  strengthening  nuclear  security  stems  from  the 
recognition  that  nuclear  security,  along  with  nuclear 
safety,  is  integral  to  the  continued  development  and 
enjoyment of the benefits of the peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy.
On  nuclear  safeguards,  the  Philippines  joined 
over  60  member  States  in  co-sponsoring  the  General 
Conference resolution entitled “Implementation of the 
NPT safeguards agreement between the Agency and the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea”,  which  calls 
upon  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
24/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
refrain from conducting further nuclear tests pursuant 
to relevant Security Council resolutions.
On a final note, the Philippines is keen on pursuing 
stronger partnership and cooperation with the IAEA in 
the coming years.
Mrs.  Nguyen  Phuong  Nga  (Viet  Nam):  First  of 
all, I would like to thank Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  IAEA  (see  A/69/255).  Viet  Nam 
commends the IAEA for its achievements on all three 
pillars of its mandate, namely, science and technology, 
safety and security, and safeguards and verification.
Viet  Nam  advocates  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  and  technology  for  development  in  line  with 
international  obligations.  We  applaud  the  IAEA’s 
continuing efforts to, inter alia, assist over 30 countries, 
including  Viet  Nam,  in  preparing  the  infrastructure 
necessary  for  introducing  nuclear  power  into  their 
energy mix. In addition, the IAEA plays an important 
role  in  helping  developing  countries  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals and in contributing to 
the preparation of the post-2015 sustainable development 
goals  through  its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
and various activities in nuclear applications.
Viet  Nam  lends  its  full  support  to  the  crucial 
role played by the IAEA in the field of nuclear safety 
and  security.  We  appreciate  the  progress  made  in  the 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety.
Through a number of mechanisms, the IAEA assists 
member States in strengthening national nuclear safety 
programmes.  During  2013,  the  Agency  conducted 
88  training  events  covering  all  aspects  of  nuclear 
security, involving more than 2,000 people, through its 
International Nuclear Security Education Network.
the 
agreements 
comprehensive 
in 
safeguards 
Viet  Nam  acknowledges  the  IAEA’s  continuing 
efforts in the field of nuclear verification and safeguards. 
While  progress  continued 
implementation 
of 
and 
additional  protocols,  we  are  happy  to  see  that  two 
more  comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and 
four  additional  protocols  have  entered  into  force.  We 
are  confident  that  the  IAEA,  a  unique  international 
organization  with  expertise  in  all  aspects  of  nuclear 
energy, will continue to play a leading role in shaping 
a safer world.
Viet  Nam  highly  appreciates 
the  Agency’s 
wide-ranging technical cooperation and support efforts 
over  the  past  years.  Since  2000,  the  IAEA  has  been 
assisting Viet Nam in implementing over 200 technical 
cooperation  projects  at  the  national,  regional  and 
interregional levels, with a total disbursement of over 
$15  million.  More  than  1,200  Vietnamese  scientists 
and  technicians  have  benefited  from  various  training 
programmes.  We  note  with  satisfaction  that  under 
the  country  programme  framework  for  the  period 
2011-2015,  cooperation  between  the  IAEA  and  Viet 
Nam has brought productive results in the main areas of 
nuclear power infrastructure and nuclear safety, health 
care  and  industrial  applications  and  environmental 
protection.
In 2013, in close collaboration with the IAEA, Viet 
Nam prepared feasibility studies for two sites for its first 
nuclear  power  plants.  Viet  Nam’s  strong  commitment 
to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and technology 
and  to  conducting  its  nuclear  power  programmes  in 
accordance with the highest safety standards has been 
widely acknowledged. During his visit to Viet Nam in 
January,  Director  General  Amano  highly  appreciated 
Viet Nam’s preparations to launch its national nuclear 
power programme.
As  Chair  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors  for 
the  2013-2014  term,  we  made  active  contributions,  in 
a  balanced  and  constructive  manner,  to  realizing  the 
objectives  and  missions  of  the  IAEA.  My  delegation 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
heartfelt appreciation to all member States, international 
partners and the IAEA for their valuable support and 
cooperation in fulfilling our responsibilities.
Finally,  Viet  Nam  is  pleased  to  sponsor  the  draft 
resolution  before  us  today,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency” (A/69/L.7).
Mr.  de  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  I  thank  the 
delegation of Slovakia for presenting the draft resolution 
contained in document A/69/L.7, which Brazil is glad 
to sponsor. Brazil welcomes the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Yukiya 
Amano, and thanks him for his briefing.
Brazil continues to support the efforts of the IAEA 
to  strengthen  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
safeguards, in strict accordance with the relevant legal 
instruments entered into between member States and the 
Agency, taking into account the necessary distinction 
14-60057
25/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
between legal obligations and voluntary commitments, 
such as the additional protocol.
In  its  2014  resolution  GC(58)/RES/14,  entitled 
“Strengthening  the  Effectiveness  and  Improving  the 
Efficiency of Agency Safeguards”, the IAEA General 
Conference  welcomed,  with  Brazil’s  support,  the 
clarifications  and  additional  information  provided  by 
the Director General in the Supplementary Document 
on  the  so-called  State-level  concept.  The  General 
Conference  welcomed  in  particular  the  important 
assurances  contained  in  the  document  and  in  the 
statements  made  by  the  Director  General  and  the 
Secretariat. 
Among  those  assurances,  I  would  highlight  the 
following.  The  State-level  concept  will  not  entail 
additional  rights  or  obligations  under  the  relevant 
safeguards agreements. The State-level concept will be 
applied to all States with safeguards agreements. The 
State-level concept is not a substitute for an additional 
protocol, nor is it designed as a means for the Agency 
to  obtain  from  a  State  without  an  additional  protocol 
in  force  the  information  and  access  provided  for  in 
that instrument, and additional protocol measures will 
continue  to  be  implemented  only  in  States  with  an 
additional protocol in force. Lastly, States will not be 
required to provide any additional information beyond 
their existing legal obligations.
required 
close 
The  General  Conference  also  noted  that  the 
implementation  of  State-level 
development  and 
approaches 
and 
coordination  with  the  State  and/or  regional  authority. 
It  also  required  agreement  by  the  State  concerned  on 
practical arrangements for the effective implementation 
of all safeguards measures identified for use in the field 
if not already in place.
consultation 
The development of the Supplementary Document 
and the decisions taken by the General Conference on 
the State-level concept resulted from an unprecedented 
process of consultations and technical meetings between 
the Secretariat and member States this year. For Brazil, 
that process introduced a new and encouraging dynamic 
in  the  manner  in  which  safeguards  issues  should  be 
dealt with within the IAEA.
The  openness  and 
that  have 
characterized  the  exchanges  between  the  Secretariat 
and member States should be continuing features of the 
ongoing and future treatment of safeguards within the 
transparency 
Agency. In Brazil’s view, any future steps related to the 
development of the concept in the light of the experience 
to be acquired by the Secretariat in the coming years 
would be acceptable only after close consultation and 
coordination with member States, with the results being 
consolidated in a future document for consideration by 
the IAEA Board of Governors.
As  we  approach  the  2015  Review  Conference  of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, serious consideration must be given 
to  nuclear  disarmament  steps  as  an  indispensable 
goal  for  upholding  the  Treaty’s  continued  authority, 
relevance and integrity.
in 
the  past,  either 
The  IAEA  has  performed  essential  verification 
activities 
in  country-specific 
situations or pursuant to requests from interested States 
parties  to  disarmament  agreements.  In  that  context, 
Brazil  welcomes  the  fact  that  in  its  2014  safeguards 
resolution, the General Conference noted that the IAEA 
must  remain  ready  to  assist  with  verification  tasks 
under nuclear disarmament or arms control agreements 
that  it  may  be  requested  to  carry  out  by  the  States 
parties to such agreements. We believe that role must 
be supported and pursued.
The  action  plan  of  the  2010  Review  Conference 
also  called  for  the  wider  application  of  safeguards 
to  peaceful  nuclear  facilities  in  the  nuclear-weapon 
States  and  stressed  that  comprehensive  safeguards 
and additional protocols should be universally applied 
once  the  complete  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons 
had been achieved. We will be tasked to consider the 
implementation of the 2010 action plan at the Review 
Conference next year.
As to the negotiations on Iran’s nuclear programme, 
I wish to stress that there is no alternative to a political 
negotiated  solution  to  that  issue.  We  should  strive  to 
preserve  the  positive  atmosphere  of  November  2013, 
which  made  possible  the  agreements  reached  both 
with  the  IAEA  and  with  the  P5+1.  We  reiterate  our 
call on all parties to remain engaged to work towards 
a  comprehensive,  long-term  solution  to  the  issue  and 
the  normalization  of  the  implementation  of  the  IAEA 
safeguards in Iran.
Brazil  attaches  great  importance  to  the  peaceful 
applications of nuclear energy, from power generation, 
human  health  and 
to  agriculture  and 
environmental protection. We are convinced that nuclear 
industry 
26/28
14-60057
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.37
technology  will  continue  to  be  of  great  relevance  for 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
and the future sustainable development goals.
As a country that is both a recipient and a donor, 
Brazil  fully  supports  the  constant  strengthening  and 
steady  implementation  of  the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  Building  upon  an  initiative 
by  the  IAEA  Deputy  Director  General,  Brazil  has 
increased  its  cooperation  in  the  nuclear  field  with 
Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa, in particular 
Angola  and  Mozambique,  focusing  on  areas  such  as 
licensing, medical applications and management.
In  our  view,  apart  from  being  one  of  the  IAEA’s 
main  statutory  tenets,  technical  cooperation  activities 
also constitute a key instrument for ensuring compliance 
with article IV of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  and  should  therefore  be  a  primary 
focus of attention of next year’s Review Conference.
Mr.  Rakhmetullin  (Kazakhstan):  Kazakhstan 
expresses its deepest appreciation to Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for the Agency’s very comprehensive 
report  (see  A/69/255).  We  commend  the  work  of  the 
Agency in its efforts to respond to changing times and 
challenges and the specific needs of member States.
Kazakhstan,  as  a  member  of  the  IAEA,  is  proud 
to work closely with the Agency in order to strengthen 
policies related to nuclear energy, nuclear disarmament 
and  non-proliferation,  as  well  as  nuclear  safety  and 
security.  We  believe  that  it  is  important  to  bring 
international  legal  norms  into  line  with  the  reality 
of  the  existence  of  de  facto  nuclear-weapon  States, 
necessitating  compliance  with  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) by States 
parties. In addition, regular stress tests of nuclear plants 
and  protection  systems,  together  with  rapid  rescue 
response tests, need to be rigorously conducted by the 
IAEA, in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Nuclear  Security  Summits  held  in  Washington,  D.C., 
Seoul and The Hague.
Kazakhstan  is  the  world’s  largest  producer  and 
supplier  of  uranium  and  is  able  to  expand  its  fuel 
fabrication capabilities for the peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy within the framework of the IAEA safeguards. 
The  Government  of  Kazakhstan  continues  to  make 
progress on the establishment of the IAEA Low-Enriched 
Uranium Bank, the proposed site of which is the Ulba 
Metallurgical Plant in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakhstan. 
During 2013, work focused on the financial, legal and 
technical arrangements and on assessing the proposed 
site for the fuel bank. In addition to hosting the bank, 
Kazakhstan  has  made  a  contribution  of  $150,000  to 
the Agency for the project. Furthermore, our national 
atomic energy company, KazAtomProm, is working in 
close collaboration with IAEA in that regard.
Now  that  the  five  nuclear-weapon  States  have 
signed  the  Protocol  to  the  Central  Asian  Nuclear-
Weapon-Free-Zone  Treaty,  the  region  can  continue 
to  work  towards  reducing  nuclear  terrorism,  the 
smuggling  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
radioactive 
materials,  and  ecological  radiation  in  the  region.  We 
continue  to  implement  the  International  Convention 
for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism  and 
to  host  workshops  and  meetings  to  support  Security 
Council resolution 1540 (2004) in order to strengthen 
measures  to  combat  illegal  trafficking  in  nuclear  and 
other materials.
As a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and 
the  Zangger  Committee,  Kazakhstan  maintains  the 
strictest  control  over  its  equipment  and  installations 
for enriching uranium and reprocessing spent nuclear 
fuel. Kazakhstan has also ratified and acceded to four 
major conventions on nuclear safety and is reviewing a 
draft law to accede to the Vienna Convention on Civil 
Liability for Nuclear Damage. We are decommissioning 
our  DN  350  nuclear  reactor,  and  with  the  support 
of  the  United  States  Department  of  Energy,  we  are 
implementing a project to convert the second research 
reactor  into  a  facility  that  will  produce  radioisotopes 
from low-enriched uranium. My country welcomes the 
proposal to strengthen the infrastructure of the IAEA’s 
Incident  and  Emergency  Centre  as  the  global  focal 
point for nuclear and radiological safety and security-
related incidents.
Despite  the  fact  that  Kazakhstan  is  a  key  and 
responsible  member  of  the  IAEA,  my  country  has 
been  denied  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the 
work of elective bodies, owing to the existing rules of 
procedure. We fully support the early entry into force 
of  the  amendments  to  article  VI  of  the  IAEA  statute, 
and we hope that a solution will be found.
Kazakhstan  is  pleased  with  its  strong  2010-2015 
technical cooperation agreement with the IAEA in the 
areas  of  nuclear  education,  medicine  and  agriculture, 
research reactor safety, and radioisotope and radiation 
applications for collective global human security. The 
country contributes regularly to the IAEA budget and 
14-60057
27/28
A/69/PV.37 
03/11/2014
to its Technical Cooperation Fund and stands ready to 
fulfil  its  financial  obligations.  Since  nuclear  security 
and safety are so critical, Kazakhstan has chosen that 
topic as a priority issue for its bid for a non-permanent 
seat on the Security Council for the 2017-2018 term.
We  fully  support  the  IAEA’s  mandate  and  look 
forward  to  another  cycle  of  even  more  productive 
collaboration  on  current  and  future  issues  in  nuclear 
technology.
Ms. Carayanides (Australia): Australia commends 
Director General Amano for introducing the report of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on the 
Agency’s achievements and the challenges it faces over 
the coming years (see A/69/255).
Australia is honoured to be a member of the IAEA 
Board  of  Governors  and  a  non-permanent  member 
of  the  Security  Council  for  2013-2014  and  takes  very 
seriously  the  responsibilities  that  those  roles  entail. 
Australia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  central 
role  played  by  the  IAEA  in  improving  the  safety  and 
security  of  nuclear  activities,  enhancing  social  and 
economic  development  through  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  science  and  technology,  and  verifying  States’ 
non-proliferation commitments.
Australia  fully  supports 
the  right  of  IAEA 
members to enjoy the benefits of the peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  in  accordance  with  their  international 
obligations.  The  IAEA  makes  a  valuable  contribution 
to 
and 
environmental  protection.  We  are  heartened  by  the 
Director  General’s  having  quickly  established  a  task 
force to enhance the response capabilities of Member 
States  in  regard  to  outbreaks  of  zoonotic  diseases, 
including the Ebola virus.
economic  development,  human  health 
We note that global demand for nuclear medicines 
is  increasing  at  a  time  when  a  number  of  major 
radioisotope-producing  research  reactors  are  either 
closing  or  entering  extended  maintenance  in  the  next 
few  years.  In  response,  Australia  is  expanding  its 
production  of  molybdenum-99,  which  is  used  in  over 
80  per  cent  of  nuclear  medicine  procedures.  When 
our new facility comes online in 2016, we will be able 
to  produce  over  20  per  cent  of  the  estimated  global 
demand for that vital radioisotope. Consistent with our 
current  production,  that  increased  capability  will  be 
fully based on low-enriched uranium technology.
All members of the Agency must work together to 
ensure  an  effective  safeguards  system.  Confidence  in 
that  system  provides  the  necessary  assurances  about 
the peaceful nature of nuclear activities and is the basic 
foundation for nuclear trade and cooperation, security 
and  continuing  progress  on  nuclear  disarmament. 
Australia  welcomes  the  Director  General’s  continued 
efforts  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  the  safeguards 
system, 
the  Supplementary 
Document to the Report on the Conceptualization and 
Development of Safeguards Implementation at the State 
Level.  Australia  urges  all  States  that  have  yet  to  do 
so  to  sign  and  bring  into  force  an  additional  protocol 
with respect to their safeguards agreements as soon as 
possible, in order to maximize the effectiveness of the 
safeguards system.
including 
through 
As Director General Amano reminded us in July, 
constant vigilance and collective action are necessary 
to  ensure  nuclear  security.  We  are  pleased  to  see  the 
Agency  continue  to  take  an  active  lead  in  that  field, 
including  by  participating  in  the  Nuclear  Security 
Summit  in  The  Hague  and  hosting  an  international 
conference on nuclear forensics this year. We encourage 
Member  States  to  ratify  the  2005  Amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material so as to ensure its early entry into force.
Australia acknowledges the ongoing efforts of the 
IAEA in nuclear safety. We look forward to the report 
of the Director General on the causes and effects of the 
Fukushima nuclear accident, as well as the subsequent 
integration of the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety 
into the Agency’s normal programme of work.
Finally,  the  external  environment  in  which  the 
Agency  operates  is  highly  fluid.  The  Agency  must 
maintain its capacity to respond quickly and effectively 
to  developments,  be  they  related  to  nuclear  safety, 
physical protection, nuclear proliferation or sustainable 
development.  Australia  will  continue  to  support  the 
Director General’s efforts to strengthen the contribution 
that the Agency makes to the promotion of the use of 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  and  to  provide 
assurances  that  all  nuclear  activities  are  exclusively 
for  the  purposes  of  peace.  Given  the  important  work 
of  the  IAEA,  Australia  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  and 
support the draft resolution on the report of the IAEA 
(A/69/L.7).
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
28/28
14-60057
