United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
36th plenary meeting
Friday, 31 October 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Baaro 
(Kiribati), Vice-President, took the Chair.
all  States  should  redouble  their  efforts  to  ensure  the 
better dissemination of this concept.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 73 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (А/69/321)
Reports of the Secretary-General (А/69/324 
and A/69/372)
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): As a responsible member 
of  the  international  community,  Georgia  is  a  firm 
supporter of the view that there cannot be long-lasting 
peace without justice. The International Criminal Court 
(ICC) is one of the principal international organs tasked 
with helping States ensure a durable peace that should 
be built on justice.
In that respect, I must say that it is still sometimes 
misperceived when a primarily international prosecutorial 
body chooses to prosecute some crimes on its own and 
leaves  appeals  to  prosecute  some  others  unanswered. 
It is therefore essential to emphasize that the very idea 
of the ICC is, above all, one of prevention and should 
be put into effect by assisting national capacities in the 
handling  of  situations  that  potentially  fall  within  the 
ICC’s jurisdiction.
The concept of positive complementarity is the best 
reflection of this idea, and we believe that in addition to 
supporting the Court in its immediate judicial activities, 
In  that  connection,  we  also  must  acknowledge 
that  in  the  case  of  some  Member  States,  a  partially 
unsatisfactory  situation  still  prevails  in  terms  of  the 
national  legislation  implementing  the  Rome  Statute. 
We  invite  all  the  parties  concerned  to  deal  with  this 
situation for their own benefit.
It  is  positive  complementarity  that  safeguards 
countries  from  the  need  for  the  Court  to  interfere, 
preserves  the  resources  of  the  Court  and  obviates 
the  need  for  additional  allocations  from  national 
budgets — a win-win situation for all. We therefore invite 
our  colleagues  to  direct  more  of  their  efforts  towards 
promoting the concept of positive complementarity and 
are ready to participate in such efforts.
As  one  of 
the  countries  under  preliminary 
examination by the ICC as a consequence of a foreign 
military aggression, Georgia remains fully committed 
to continuing effective cooperation with the Court and 
dealing  with  our  respective  tasks  domestically,  to  the 
extent that the situation, involving an ongoing foreign 
military occupation of the main areas affected by the 
conflict, allows us to do so.
Georgia is among those countries that have already 
ratified  the  Kampala  amendment  on  the  crime  of 
aggression and we would like to take this opportunity 
to call on all those parties that have not done so to step 
up the process.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59895 (E)
*1459895*
A/69/PV.36 
31/10/2014
After years of operation, even a building designed 
by  brilliant  architects  often  needs  refurbishment,  and 
so  does  the  ICC.  After  more  than  a  decade  since  its 
inception,  today  it  needs  to  be  rejuvenated  so  as  to 
adequately  respond  to  the  challenges  of  today  and  of 
tomorrow.
Justice should not only be just but also be perceived 
as  such.  Georgia  stands  committed  to  making  this 
change happen. Therefore, Georgia decided to nominate 
a candidate, Judge Mindia Ugrekhelidze, for a judicial 
vacancy  at  the  Court  to  be  filled  during  the  election 
of  judges  in  December.  His  track  record  of  judicial 
experience in criminal law and human rights at both the 
national and international levels is proven, as shown by 
his service as Chief Justice and President of the Supreme 
Court of Georgia, and Judge at the European Court of 
Human Rights in Strasbourg. His tenure at each Court 
lasted for about a decade. We believe that thanks to his 
experience and competencies, the Georgian candidate 
would represent an extraordinary addition to the ICC’s 
judicial bench. If he is elected, it would be a first for 
Georgia, a small developing State with a proven track 
record of reforms and of overcoming the obstacles that 
countries  in  many  regions  and  on  various  continents 
face today.
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  also  express 
our  support  to  Senegal  in  connection  with  the  next 
presidency of the Assembly of States Parties and assure 
it of our cooperation.
Let me end by reiterating what I said at the outset, 
but expressed through the words of Martin Luther King, 
spoken  in  a  somewhat  different  context  but  equally 
relevant to what we are discussing today: “True peace 
is not merely the absence of tension; it is the presence 
of justice”.
We commend the International Criminal Court for 
advocating this timeless idea and stand firm in support 
of it.
Mr. Martín y Pérez de Nanclares (Spain) (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I  wish  to  begin  by  acknowledging  the 
very  positive  work  done  by  Judge  Song  as  President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  at  a  very 
complex  juncture.  His  contribution  has  been  decisive 
in  consolidating  the  role  of  the  Court  in  fighting 
impunity for the most serious international crimes. We 
also thank him for his presentation of the tenth annual 
report of the Court to the United Nations (see A/69/321) 
(see A/69/PV.34).
On  25  September,  Spain  deposited  its  instrument 
of  ratification  of  the  Kampala  amendments  with  the 
United  Nations  Secretariat.  This  demonstrates  my 
country’s  strong  commitment  to  the  work  carried  out 
by  the  ICC  since  its  inception,  as  an  institution  that 
embodies  the  paradigm  of  universal  criminal  justice 
and that is at the forefront of the fight against impunity 
for the most serious crimes against humanity.
I should like in particular to make special mention 
of the victims, as Spain believes that special attention 
should  be  paid  to  them.  That  is  why,  among  other 
actions, my country has been contributing to the Trust 
Fund for Victims.
There is no doubt that ICC is an independent judicial 
institution.  However,  it  is  also  quite  clear  that  it  has 
a  natural  and  very  close  relationship  with  the  United 
Nations.  That  is  why  it  is  crucial  for  the  cooperation 
mechanisms between the two bodies to be strengthened, 
for  example  through  cooperation  between  the  Court 
and  peacekeeping  operations  and  through  interaction 
between commissions of inquiry and the Office of the 
Prosecutor, or by creating greater synergy between the 
Security Council and the Court.
I  would  now  like  to  comment  on  some  issues  set 
out  in  the  report  of  the  Court  2013/2014,  which  was 
presented  yesterday  by  President  Song.  The  report 
underscores  the  importance  of  complementarity  as 
a  basic  instrument  for  achieving  the  goals  of  the 
Rome Statute. Since it is States that bear the primary 
responsibility  for  ensuring  accountability  for  crimes 
admissible  before  the  Court,  it  is  imperative  that 
the  United  Nations,  its  Member  States  and  other 
international and regional organizations assist States to 
strengthen their capacities so as to be able to comply 
with the objectives at the domestic level.
In recent years, the United Nations has given ever 
greater importance to strengthening national capacities 
to prosecute the crimes covered by the Rome Statute. 
This  is  reflected  in  the  2013/2014  report,  which 
details  the  various  technical  assistance  activities  that 
have  been  organized  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  report  also  notes  the  growth  in  recent 
months  of  the  Court’s  cooperation  with  the  countries 
of Latin America - organizing numerous seminars and 
meetings of experts - and with the European Union. It is 
important to maintain that effort in the future.
Likewise,  considering  that  the  Office  of  Legal 
Affairs  is  the  focal  point  that  assures  cooperation 
2/10
14-59895
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.36
between  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  Court,  it 
is  important  that  all  stakeholders  in  the  Organization 
systematize  their  cooperation  with  the  Office.  It  is 
essential that the Legal Counsel continue the practice 
of informing, in advance, the ICC Prosecutor and the 
President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  of  any 
meeting  with  persons  who  may  be  under  an  arrest 
warrant  of  the  Court,  pursuant  to  the  United  Nations 
guidelines on non-essential contacts.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Finally,  the  report  highlights  the  sharp  increase 
in  the  Court’s  activities  over  recent  months.  Bearing 
in  mind  that  its  resources  are  limited  and  that  it  is 
necessary  to  maintain  strict  control  on  spending, 
cooperation  with  Member  States  and  with  the  United 
Nations in pursuit of the Court’s objectives is crucial if 
we aspire to the ideals of peace and justice enshrined 
in both the Rome Statute and the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Spain promotes the universality and integrity of the 
Rome Statute in its bilateral relations, in accordance with 
the common position of the European Union. Moreover, 
we included the commitment to support the work of the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  Spain’s  priorities  for 
the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
in  the  document  “Transparency  and  Accountability”, 
part  of  our  efforts  seeking  a  non-permanent  seat  on 
the Security Council. I can assure the Assembly that, 
during our upcoming two-year term as a non-permanent 
member of the Council, Spain will support the work of 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  as  we  always  have 
done, with responsibility and sensitivity.
Mr. Kolga (Estonia): Estonia aligns itself with the 
statement delivered yesterday on behalf of the European 
Union (see A/69/PV.34).
I 
thank  President  Song  for  his  presentation 
yesterday  of 
the  Court’s  report  (see  A/69/321), 
which  illustrates  the  ever-increasing  caseload  of  the 
Court,  which  in  turn  reflects  the  demands  for  justice 
worldwide. There are now nine active situations under 
the  Court’s  consideration,  of  which  a  considerable 
number were referred to the Court by States themselves. 
In  addition,  the  Prosecutor  is  seized  with  numerous 
communications  and  preliminary  analyses  from  all 
over the world. My delegation hopes that States parties 
will keep the growing workload of the Court in mind 
when  negotiating  the  Court’s  budget  at  the  upcoming 
session  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  and  will 
provide the Court with the necessary resources to fulfil 
its mandate.
President Song has made a compelling call for the 
universal ratification of the Rome Statute. Although no 
further States have ratified the Rome Statute in the past 
year,  Ukraine  has  accepted  the  Court’s  jurisdiction, 
under article 12 of the Rome Statute, over alleged crimes 
committed on its territory from 21 November 2013 to 
22 February 2014, and the Office of the Prosecutor has 
opened  a  preliminary  examination  into  the  situation. 
Estonia  hopes  that  Ukraine  will  also  promptly  ratify 
the Rome Statute so as to enjoy the full protection of 
the  Rome  Statute  system.  We  also  call  on  all  United 
Nations Members that have not yet done so to ratify the 
Rome Statute.
While the ICC is an independent judicial institution, 
it  is  connected  to  the  United  Nations  through  its 
genesis  and  shared  values.  This  natural  relationship 
was institutionalized 10 years ago, in 2004, through an 
agreement  negotiated  between  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  Court.  The  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  provides  a  general  framework  for  cooperation 
between 
institutions.  The  continued 
cooperation  and  crucial  assistance  the  Court  receives 
from  the  United  Nations,  as  evidenced  in  the  report, 
are  much  appreciated.  However,  I  feel  that  it  is  time 
for  a  new  phase  in  the  relationship,  one  in  which  the 
cooperation and assistance are not provided solely on a 
reimbursable basis.
these 
two 
Considering that the Office of Legal Affairs is the 
focal point for ensuring cooperation within the entire 
United Nations system on all aspects of the relationship 
with the Court, Estonia encourages all United Nations 
actors to systematize their cooperation with the Office 
of  Legal  Affairs.  It  is  also  the  Legal  Counsel  who 
implements  the  practice  of  informing  the  Prosecutor 
and  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties, 
beforehand,  of  any  meetings  with  persons  who  are 
the subject of ICC arrest warrants that are considered 
necessary  for  the  performance  of  United  Nations-
mandated  tasks,  on  the  basis  of  the  United  Nations 
guidelines  on  non-essential  contacts  with  persons 
subject to an ICC arrest warrant. Estonia welcomes the 
guidelines and calls for the continuation of this practice.
The relationship between the Court and the Security 
Council should also be strengthened — a position many 
14-59895
3/10
A/69/PV.36 
31/10/2014
Member States share, as evidenced during last week’s 
Security  Council  open  debate  on  working  methods 
(see  S/PV.7285).  Ideas  on  practical  steps  on  how  to 
create  greater  synergies  between  the  Council  and  the 
Court  can  also  be  found  in  the  Court’s  report  to  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  on  the  status  of  ongoing 
cooperation  between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations 
(ICC-ASP/12/42).
The Security Council has authorized the missions 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mali to 
cooperate with and support the Court. Considering the 
13 warrants of arrest issued by the Court that remain 
outstanding and the common goal of the Council and the 
Court — to prevent mass atrocities that constitute a threat 
to international peace and security — we encourage the 
Security  Council  to  mandate  peacekeeping  missions 
throughout  to  arrest  ICC  fugitives  and  to  equip  them 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  missions  are  able  to  fulfil 
their mandate. Estonia also calls on all Member States 
to contribute to ending impunity by working together to 
execute the pending arrest warrants.
To  fail  to  bring  to  justice  individuals  responsible 
for the most serious crimes under international law is 
to fail the victims of those crimes. The victims are the 
raison  d’être  of  the  Rome  Statute  system.  The  Court 
has  given  hope  to  the  victims  of  atrocity  crimes,  and 
more  than  200,000  victims  have  already  benefitted 
directly  or  indirectly  from  the  concrete  assistance 
programmes of the ICC Trust Fund for Victims. Estonia 
also contributed to the Trust Fund this year, and we call 
upon others to do the same.
As  the  report  highlights,  the  Court  was  never 
intended  to  replace  national  courts,  nor  could  it  ever 
do so. Given that States have the primary responsibility 
to  ensure  accountability,  it  is  of  utmost  importance 
that States, the United Nations and other international, 
regional  and  non-governmental  organizations  assist 
States  in  building  a  national  capacity  to  investigate 
and prosecute Rome Statute crimes domestically. The 
increasing attention that the United Nations has recently 
given  to  strengthening  domestic  capacity  to  address 
Rome Statute crimes is most welcome, and I hope those 
efforts will continue. Estonia has allocated development 
cooperation  resources  to  promoting  the  strengthening 
of  national  judicial  capacity  in  that  regard,  working 
closely  with  civil  society  organizations,  which  play 
a  crucial  role  in  assisting  States  in  incorporating  the 
Rome  Statute  into  their  domestic  legislation,  and  we 
call upon all Member States in a position to do so to do 
the same.
There  are  States  parties  to  the  ICC  across  all 
regions  of  the  world,  and  all  States  parties  share 
ownership of the Statute. The work of the Assembly of 
States Parties conducted intersessionally is open to all 
parties. It is indeed expected that all States parties will 
engage actively in its work and its working groups at all 
diplomatic levels.
As  the  mandates  of  the  current  President  of  the 
Court  and  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties will come to an end soon, I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank Judge Song and Ambassador 
Intelmann  —  one  of  our  own  —  for  their  tireless 
efforts in enhancing States’ support for the Court and 
cooperation between the Court and the United Nations.
Estonia will continue to be committed to the ICC. 
We  pledge  to  defend  the  independent  mandate  of  the 
Court  and  the  election  of  the  most  qualified  judges. 
I  will  also  extend  the  same  level  of  support  to  the 
candidate  for  the  post  of  President  of  the  Assembly, 
His Excellency Mr. Sidiki Kaba, Minister of Justice of 
Senegal.
Mr.  Nyago  (Uganda):  Thank  you,  Mr.  President, 
for this opportunity to address the General Assembly 
on the work of the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
I wish to start by thanking Judge Song, the President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  for  the  report  of 
the Court (see A/69/321), as well as for his presentation 
(see  A/69/PV.34).  This  being  his  last  such  address  to 
the  General  Assembly  in  his  capacity  of  President  of 
ICC, we congratulate him for his service and wish him 
the very best in his future endeavours.
Uganda fully identifies with the concerns raised by 
the African Union’s extraordinary summit that was held 
specifically to discuss the politicization and selectivity 
of the ICC, on 12 October 2013 in Addis Ababa. Uganda 
further  identifies  with  the  well-articulated  statements 
made  to  the  General  Assembly  by  the  representatives 
of different African Member States on the issue of the 
politicization  and  selectivity  of  the  ICC’s  methods. 
Indeed,  my  Head  of  State,  while  marking  our  much-
cherished 52 years of independence earlier this month, 
focused  on  the  issue  of  the  ICC’s  undermining  the 
African  Union  by  summoning  a  sitting  African  Head 
of State to The Hague earlier in October 2014. He said
4/10
14-59895
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.36
“My view is that at the next African Union summit, 
African countries should review their membership 
to the ICC treaty. The ICC is turning out not to be 
value  addition  product  that  we  had  expected  it  to 
be. It is instead a biased instrument of post-colonial 
hegemony.”
Africa’s legitimate concerns have to be genuinely 
addressed if the ICC is to retain its relevance in Africa.
That  said,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Uganda’s 
commitment  to  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the 
perpetrators of the most heinous crimes of concern to 
the international community. Uganda has incorporated 
the  Rome  Statute  into  our  domestic  law,  followed  by 
the  establishment  of  the  War  Crimes  Division  of  its 
High  Court.  The  Division  is  seized  with  cases  that 
would otherwise be handled by the ICC. We commend 
the Court for the assistance it has rendered by training 
the judges and prosecutors of the International Crimes 
Division.  At  the  moment,  the  Division  is  seized  with 
the  case  Uganda  v.  Thomas  Kwoyelo,  a  senior  Lord’s 
Resistance Army commander accused of Rome Statute 
crimes.
Uganda was the first to make a State referral to the 
ICC, which led to the indictment of Mr. Joseph Kony 
and others from the Lord’s Resistance Army, who are 
beyond  our  national  jurisdiction.  Unfortunately,  not 
only  are  the  indictees  at  large,  but  they  continue  to 
cause untold suffering wherever they operate. Under the 
auspices of the African Union Regional Task Force, the 
Uganda People’s Defence Forces are currently pursuing 
Mr.  Joseph  Kony  and  his  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  in 
the Central African Republic. Due to the asymmetrical 
tactics  and  the  nature  of  the  terrain  in  which  the 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  operates,  the  maintenance 
and sustainability of the African Union Regional Task 
Force  is  very  costly  to  individual  troop-contributing 
countries, and we would encourage further support for 
it.
That notwithstanding, the Uganda People’s Defence 
Forces observe high standards of discipline as outlined 
in its operational code of conduct. It has a field court 
martial that deals with cases of errant soldiers as soon 
as  they  are  detected.  All  reports  indicate  the  least 
incidence of crime in the eastern areas of the Central 
African Republic where the Uganda People’s Defence 
Forces are operating.
In  paragraph  33  of  the  Court’s  report,  in  which 
the  situation  in  Uganda  is  discussed,  it  is  stated  that 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  continued  to  gather 
and  analyse  information  related  to  alleged  crimes 
committed by the Uganda People’s Defence Forces and 
continues to encourage national proceedings in relation 
to both parties to the conflict. That should not create 
the impression that the Government is soft on Uganda 
People’s  Defence  Forces  members  who  are  alleged  to 
have  committed  crimes  in  the  course  of  pursuing  the 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army;  far  from  it.  The  Ugandan 
Government routinely investigates and conducts public 
trials in a general court martial of any errant soldiers. 
We  would  therefore  welcome  any  further  information 
available  to  the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC  so  as  to  assist 
our national investigations and prosecutions. That kind 
of collaboration would go a long way in enhancing our 
common efforts in the fight against impunity.
Finally, I would like to end by addressing the issue 
of unfunded mandates. I am talking about the referrals 
by the Security Council, which are not funded from the 
budget of the United Nations. By their nature, Security 
Council  referrals  involve  the  most  difficult  cases.  If 
the referrals continue to be unfunded, the resources of 
the International Criminal Court will be depleted with 
nothing much to show for it in the end.
Mr.  Šćepanović  (Montenegro):  Since  this  is  the 
first  time  I  take  the  floor  in  the  sixty-ninth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  offer  my 
congratulations to President Sam Kutesa on his election 
to lead the General Assembly at this session. I assure 
him  and  the  Bureau  of  our  strong  support  and  full 
cooperation.
Montenegro  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  yesterday  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union (see A/69/PV.34). However, I would also like to 
make a statement in my national capacity.
In contrast to previous human rights treaties, which 
required only self-reporting, a State’s commitment to the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) requires it to cede 
to an independent prosecutor the power to investigate 
and  prosecute  that  State’s  own  nationals  for  mass 
atrocities when the prosecutor determines that the State 
is unwilling or unable to carry out such an investigation 
domestically. The fact that almost two thirds of United 
Nations Member States have embraced the jurisdiction 
of an independent international institution on their own 
territory is a remarkable development. Indeed, a decision 
by national leaders to become party to the Statute of the 
Court would appear to run against to their self-interest, 
since it is widely assumed that the ICC will focus on 
14-59895
5/10
A/69/PV.36 
31/10/2014
prosecuting high-level figures in countries where mass 
atrocities  have  occurred.  Certainly  there  is  no  other 
area  of  international  law  where  we  have  delegated 
so  much  unconditional  authority  to  an  international 
institution  over  which  national  leaders  have  so  little 
control.  All  of  that  is  proof  of  our  commitment  to 
improving  international  law  and  independent  judicial 
mechanisms.
The international community should leave no space 
for political calculation when it comes to ratifying the 
Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC,  since  such  practices  could 
result  in  serious  harm  to  the  lives  and  fundamental 
human rights of civilian populations. We are aware that 
the  root  causes  of  the  problems  facing  international 
criminal  law  lie  mainly  in  political  instability,  or 
sometimes in the poor education or economic conditions 
that  give  rise  to  conflict.  Such  failures,  however, 
cannot serve as an excuse for violations of international 
criminal law, particularly the Rome Statute.
The twentieth century witnessed a number of cases 
of genocide, and we must do our best to prevent history 
from  repeating  itself.  However,  the  growing  number 
of  conflicts  and  crises  we  are  seeing  today  —  some 
of which, in the words of the Secretary-General, have 
become  among  the  greatest  since  the  Second  World 
War — reminds us that we must pay great attention to 
further  improving  international  mechanisms  to  fight 
impunity. While we should continue to strengthen the 
International  Criminal  Court  as  the  most  important 
of  such  mechanisms,  we  must  also  deliver  tools  for 
prevention through concepts such as the responsibility 
to protect and offices such as that of the Special Adviser 
to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of Genocide.
I take this opportunity to reaffirm once again our 
strong commitment to the principles of the Rome Statute 
and the work of the International Criminal Court, as well 
as to supporting all efforts aimed at achieving universal 
jurisdiction  for  the  Court.  I  would  therefore  like  to 
recall that over the past decade Montenegro has actively 
cooperated  with  all  international  judicial  institutions, 
especially  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia.  We  strongly  support  the  rule  of 
law  at  the  international  level  and  its  implementation 
through 
the 
United Nations. In that regard, we encourage all United 
Nations actors to systematize their cooperation with the 
Office of Legal Affairs, and we stress the importance 
of the efforts the United Nations has made in that field.
the  mechanisms  established 
through 
Without  strong  rule  of  law  at  the  national  level, 
attempts  to  strengthen  it  at  the  international  level 
are  significantly  hampered.  Montenegro  is  therefore 
continuing  to  reform  its  criminal  court  procedures 
by  incorporating  the  principal  international  crimes 
described  in  articles  6,  7  and  8  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
thereby  aligning  its  domestic  criminal  code  with  the 
Statute.  We  have  also  enacted  a  law  on  cooperation 
with  the  International  Criminal  Court,  proving  once 
again our full commitment to the further development 
of international judicial mechanisms.
Through  our  activities  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council  we  continue  to  stress  the  importance  of 
ratifying the Rome Statute, and we invite those States 
that have not yet ratified it to do so. As a party to the 
Statute, we once again express our strong political will 
and  determination  to  carry  out  further  procedures  in 
the  process  of  ratifying  the  Kampala  amendments  by 
the end of 2016. In that regard, we have already made 
adjustments amending our criminal code by stipulating 
the crime of aggression.
I would like to conclude by saying that Montenegro 
welcomes the General Assembly’s annual consideration 
of  the  report  of  the  ICC.  We  commend  the  role  of  its 
outgoing  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties. 
At  the  same  time,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the 
complementarity of the ICC as a crucial tool to achieve 
the common goals of peace and security.
Ms.  Krasa  (Cyprus):  The  Republic  of  Cyprus  is 
pleased  to  participate  in  today’s  consideration  of  the 
annual report of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
(see  A/69/321)  and  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  Court,  Judge  Song,  for  his  comprehensive 
presentation  of  the  report  to  the  General  Assembly 
yesterday (see A/69/PV.34).
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  aligns  itself  the  the 
statement  delivered  yesterday  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union (see A/69/PV.34).
Cyprus  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate the commitment and support that it has always 
given to the Court since its inception, for the following 
reasons.  First,  we  consider  it  a  moral  obligation  to 
promote  accountability  for  atrocities,  regardless  of 
where  they  are  committed.  Secondly,  we  steadfastly 
support strengthening international law as a means to a 
more just and peaceful international order. Thirdly, the 
fact that our country continues to experience the effects 
of  injustices  committed  over  40  years  of  aggression 
6/10
14-59895
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.36
and  foreign  occupation  renders  the  Court’s  mission 
even more salient to us. Considering those reasons, it 
is no coincidence that Cyprus has been a party to the 
ICC  since  2002  and  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to 
ratify the amendments to the Rome Statute adopted in 
Kampala in 2010, including the amendment concerning 
the crime of aggression. 
My  country  is  proud  to  be  actively  engaged  in, 
among  other  things,  promoting  the  universality  and 
full implementation of the Rome Statute. Those issues 
have  been  persistent  challenges  for  the  Court,  and 
overcoming them is vital for achievement of its mission. 
In that regard, my country is honooured to be currently 
serving as a focal point in the Assembly of States Parties 
for promoting its plan of action for the universality and 
full implementation of the Rome Statute.
My delegation believes that cooperation among all 
stakeholders  is  key  to  overcoming  current  and  future 
challenges. In particular, States parties should continue 
to  promote  the  Court’s  independence,  credibility  and 
efficiency.
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  would  like  to  reiterate 
its  conviction  that  the  Court  significantly  contributes 
to  the  overall  goal  of  the  United  Nations  in  working 
to  consolidate  peace  and  security.  In  that  regard, 
the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Court,  as  formalized  in  their  2004  Relationship 
Agreement,  is  significant,  and  we  support  further 
strengthening  the  relationship  through  practical  steps 
such as those outlined in the report of the Court to the 
Assembly of States Parties on the status of the ongoing 
cooperation between the ICC and the United Nations, 
which  is  contained  in  document  ICC-ASP/12/42.  As 
we  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  relationship’s 
complementarity,  we  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
highlight  the  importance  of  efforts  on  the  part  of 
the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  its 
membership to address Rome Statute crimes.
Many thought the creation of the ICC was a mission 
impossible.  Yet  for  the  last  12  years  it  has  tangibly 
contributed  to  advancing  international  justice.  For 
that  reason,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  in  welcoming 
the progress the ICC has made this year, would like to 
reiterate its unwavering support for the Court.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that the statements in the exercise of the right of reply 
are limited to ten minutes for the first intervention and 
to five minutes for the second intervention. Statements 
should be delivered by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Aldahhak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to exercise the right 
to  reply  to  certain  statements  that  have  been  made 
concerning the situation in the Syrian Arab Republic. In 
that connection, my delegation would like to emphasize 
the following points.
Secondly, 
the 
First, the major responsibility for accountability and 
the administration of justice falls upon the shoulders of 
the concerned countries themselves.
the  mandate  of 
International 
Criminal  Court  is  complementary  to  the  various 
national  jurisdictions,  and  it  cannot  replace  national 
justice. It can be resorted to only in the framework of 
certain  specific  conditions,  which  are  not  fulfilled  in 
the Syrian case.
Thirdly, the Syrian people are the main sovereign 
decision-maker and the only entity capable of choosing 
the justice system that it deems appropriate in order to 
bring the perpetrators of crimes to account. No country 
and  no  other  party  has  the  right  to  try  to  usurp  the 
rights of the Syrian people or their national decisions. 
No party and no State has the right to speak on behalf 
of the Syrian people.
Fourthly,  justice  is  indivisible.  It  has  to  be 
comprehensive.  Justice  has  to  be  far  removed  from 
politicization,  selectivity  and  double  standards.  The 
noble  concept  of  justice  should  not  be  abused,  nor 
should it be used according to the various whims and 
interests of certain influential parties and their allies.
One  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  has  talked  about  the  so-called  harsh  reality. 
Unfortunately, that harsh reality is obviously before us. 
It manifests itself when some countries behave in a way 
that does not serve justice at all but rather undermines 
its credibility. Such behaviour is used in order to adopt 
an obviously arbitrary and politicized policy whereby 
those  countries  insist  on  talking  about  the  situation 
in some countries while turning a blind eye to a lot of 
blatant  crimes  and  documented  atrocities  perpetrated 
by  other  countries.  We  have  listened  to  a  number  of 
presentations  and  statements  by  those  countries  in 
which no mention was made of the crimes committed 
by the Israeli occupation against the people in the Arab 
occupied  territories,  and  that  has  been  going  on  for 
14-59895
7/10
A/69/PV.36 
31/10/2014
many decades. The latest such crimes were the heinous 
atrocities  perpetrated  by  the  occupation  authorities 
against the inhabitants of Gaza.
The  delegations  of  those  same  countries  have 
also  ignored  the  fact  that  some  permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council  have  provided  immunity  and 
impunity to the leaders of the Israeli occupation forces. 
They have done so by using their right of veto dozens 
of  times  in  order  to  prevent  the  Security  Council 
from  adopting  resolutions  that  would  condemn  Israel 
and make its Government accountable for war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  committed  against  the 
countries in the region and the Arab inhabitants living 
under  occupation.  Those  countries  are  the  ones  that 
have raised the slogan of international justice but ignore 
what their allies are doing, which includes exacerbating 
certain conflicts in various countries at the expense of 
the people of those countries.
Who  will  talk  about  holding  the  Western  former 
colonial  Powers  accountable  for  inciting  conflicts  in 
Africa?  Have  those  countries  forgotten  the  painful 
events  that  occurred  in  Rwanda?  Have  they  forgotten 
what the commander of the United Nations peacekeeping 
forces said at that time, namely, that a certain Western 
country with a permanent seat on the Security Council 
had  itself  supported  the  perpetrators  of  genocide? 
Where  do  we  stand  today  on  the  question  of  making 
accountable all those who have committed war crimes 
and major blatant violations of human rights against the 
Iraqi people in Abu Ghraib or elsewhere?
Even  if  some  have  forgotten  those  events,  the 
people  of  the  region  will  not  forget  the  lies  and 
fabrications against Iraq and Libya. The photos of the 
abused and raped in Abu Ghraib prison will forever be 
imprinted  in  our  memories,  especially  for  proponents 
of human rights and true international justice. Acts of 
rape,  beheading,  terrorism,  sexual  abuse,  torture  and 
other atrocious practices must be completely rejected, 
whether  they  are  acts  practiced  on  the  ground  or  in 
mobile secret prisons.
that  support 
My  delegation  reiterates  its  call  for  holding  the 
officials  of  Governments 
terrorism 
responsible for the terrorist acts that the Syrian people 
and others in the region and the world are experiencing 
today. Behind the terrorist who is leading Daesh - the 
self-proclaimed Khalifa al-Baghdadi - there are people 
in the Governments of neighbouring countries who are 
able  on  a  daily  basis  to  create  hundreds  of  terrorists 
like him. There is also the would-be sultanate-illusion 
pursuer who is seeking to make himself a new sultan at 
the expense of many Arab countries and the blood of 
their  people.  Another  governor  is  financing  terrorism 
and investing in it in the same way that he would buy a 
hotel in Paris, a store in London, or the right to host the 
FIFA World Cup. And there are others like him in other 
countries. Pure justice would require that we prosecute 
those officials and make them accountable for crimes 
committed against Syria, the Syrian people and peoples 
of the world who are suffering from terrorism.
In conclusion, my delegation would like once again 
to  remind  countries  that  allegedly  care  for  Syria  and 
the  Syrian  people  that  the  only  way  to  help  Syria  is 
clear  and  well  known.  The  only  way  to  help  Syria  is 
to exert sincere efforts to combat terrorism, to support 
a  genuine  political  and  peaceful  solution  based  on  a 
national  and  comprehensive  dialogue  between  and 
among  Syrians  and  under  Syrian  leadership,  as  well 
as to support the efforts of the United Nations Special 
Envoy, Mr. De Mistura, in that respect.
Ms.  Özkan  (Turkey):  With  regard  to  the  baseless 
allegations  just  made  by  the  representative  of  one 
delegation, I would like to stress that they will be duly 
responded to by their counterpart, the Turkish Cypriots, 
whose voice unfortunately cannot be heard in the Hall.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 73?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 11 (continued)
Sport for development and peace
Draft resolution (A/69/L.5)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 
the  General  Assembly  previously  considered  agenda 
item 11 at its 28th plenary meeting, on 20 October.
I now give the floor to the representative of Tunisia 
to introduce draft resolution A/69/L.5.
Mr. Khiari (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
allow  me  to  commend  the  role  played  by  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  and  programmes 
in  the  support  of  sport,  especially  the  activities 
conducted  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
appreciation of the great and sustained efforts deployed 
by  the  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on 
8/10
14-59895
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.36
Sport for Development and Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke, 
promoting the affinities relating sport to development 
and peace.
Sport plays a major role, especially in developing 
a relationship of cooperation among countries, nations 
and individuals far from their geographic, social, racial 
and cultural environment. That is what we clearly see 
in the various sporting events and forums at the local 
and international levels, where athletes quickly become 
ambassadors  of  their  countries,  defending  the  values 
of  peace,  friendship  and  just  competition,  which  are 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  international  Olympic 
Movement.  Sport  is  also  a  means  to  support  social 
integration  and  human  development,  especially  when 
it  develops  awareness,  confidence  and  the  spirit  of 
leadership  among  groups  and  societies,  which  brings 
with  it  a  number  of  environmental,  development, 
economic, social and political benefits. In the light of 
the important instrumental role played by sport at many 
levels,  sport  has  been  included  in  the  development 
process  as  a  major  means  for  ensuring  peace  and 
security.
Sport is also important for human fitness. That is 
why  we  have  seen  a  close  link  between  sport  on  the 
one  hand  and  human  rights  and  development  on  the 
other. Allow me, Sir, to refer to the General Assembly’s 
debate last week (see A/69/PV.28). That debate revealed 
a  major  consensus  on  the  importance  of  sport  as  a 
means to promote human development. 
Within that context and in order to use sport as an 
engine for sustainable peace and development, I would 
like  to  present  today  to  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General Assembly the draft resolution entitled “Sport as 
a means to promote education, health, development and 
peace” (A/69/L.5), on behalf of Tunisia and Monaco and 
all the other countries sponsoring the draft resolution. 
The  draft  resolution  reiterates  the  commitment  of  the 
international  community  to  using  sport  as  a  tool  for 
conciliation  and  good  cooperation  among  countries 
without  discrimination  or  exclusivity  at  the  regional, 
national  and 
thereby  further 
promoting understanding, cultural diversity and human 
rights.
international 
levels, 
The  draft  resolution  calls  upon  Member  States  to 
give priority to sport in national policies and to focus 
on the international character of that activity as a tool 
to promote peace, health, education and development. 
The draft resolution welcomes the Olympic Games that 
are scheduled to be held in Rio de Janeiro in 2016; in 
Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea, in 2018; and in Tokyo 
in 2020, as those occasions can be considered to be a 
means to consecrate the culture of peace and amity and 
unify all the various athletes and parties wherever they 
come from and whatever their faiths or ethnicities.
Finally,  allow  me  to  extend  my  thanks  to  all 
Member  States  for  the  laudable  efforts  they  have 
exerted in support of the draft resolution. I would now 
like  to  call  upon  other  Member  States  to  support  the 
draft resolution in the General Assembly, as it will be a 
significant message to all stakeholders that they should 
promote and advance sports activities in a way that will 
serve the cause of development and peace in the world.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now take a decision on draft resolution A/69/L.5, 
entitled “Sport as a means to promote education, health, 
development and peace”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  draft 
resolution A/69/L.5, the following countries, in addition 
to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document,  have 
become  sponsors:  Andorra,  the  Bahamas,  Belgium, 
Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  China, 
the  Congo,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Greece, 
Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, 
Lebanon,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Mongolia, 
the 
Netherlands, Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, the Russian 
Federation,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Sweden,  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/69/L.5?
Draft resolution A/69/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
69/6).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
the  speakers  in  explanations  of  vote,  I  would  like  to 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  the  delegations 
from their seats.
Mr. Sargsyan (Armenia): We would like to explain 
our position on the adoption of resolution 69/6.
On behalf of my delegation, I would like to commend 
the  President’s  leadership  and  professionalism  in 
14-59895
9/10
A/69/PV.36 
31/10/2014
guiding the work of the General Assembly and to thank 
him for providing us the opportunity to share our views 
on the subject. Armenia understands the importance of 
resolution 69/6, “Sport as a means to promote education, 
health,  development  and  peace”,  and  commends  the 
efforts  of  its  main  sponsors,  Monaco  and  Tunisia,  as 
we share in the strong belief that sport promotes mutual 
understanding and coexistence, peace and development 
throughout  the  world.  We  are  of  the  view  that  sport 
should be kept out of politics, and we strongly condemn 
xenophobia,  racism  and  discrimination  in  sport  in  all 
its forms and manifestations.
Having said that and in reference to the recognition 
of  the  importance  of  international  sporting  events  as 
indicated in resolution 69/6, we would like to express 
our  concern  with  regard  to  a  certain  sporting  event 
to  be  held  next  year.  Considering  the  ongoing  hatred 
against  Armenians  and  the  Government-sponsored 
Armenophobia  in  the  host  country  of  the  inaugural 
2015  European  Games,  we  have  well-grounded  and 
serious doubts about the ability of the latter to ensure 
the safety and security of all athletes, provide fair and 
equal  conditions  for  participants  and  guarantee  the 
integrity of that international sporting competition.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 11?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
10/10
14-59895
