United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
54th plenary meeting
Monday, 17 November 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 3.50 p.m. 
Agenda item 63 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/69/53 
and A/69/53/Add.1)
Mr.  Kydyrov  (Kyrgyzstan):  First  of  all,  I  would 
like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation 
to  Mr.  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  for  introducing  the  Council’s 
comprehensive report (A/69/53).
The Kyrgyz Republic firmly agrees with the need 
for  universal  recognition  of,  and  respect  for,  human 
rights as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other 
basic  international  instruments.  The  provisions  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  specify 
that  fundamental  freedoms  and  human  rights  are  to 
determine  the  meaning  and  content  of  the  activities 
of  the  legislative  and  executive  authorities  and  local 
Governments.
In the context of globalization and new challenges, 
Kyrgyzstan  favours 
the  further  strengthening  of 
international  cooperation  and  effective  action  by  the 
United Nations and its agencies in the promotion and 
protection of human rights. Kyrgyzstan commends the 
progress achieved by the Human Rights Council, which 
has demonstrated itself to be a unique platform for the 
discussion  and  development  of  recommendations  and 
standards in the field of human rights and for providing 
technical assistance. At the same time, we consider it 
crucial to strictly enforce the principles of universality, 
impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity.
In  our  opinion, 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  focus  more  attention  on  assistance  aimed  at 
capacity-building  at  the  country  level,  particularly 
in  the  development  and  implementation  of  national 
programmes. In that regard, it is important to focus on 
areas such as the right to development and economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights.  We  also  advocate  the 
promotion of the rule of law at the national and global 
levels, and ensuring respect for human rights and fair 
justice through an independent judiciary.
We  should  always  remember  that  the  problems 
of  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  democracy  are 
interlinked  and  mutually  reinforcing.  It  is  therefore 
necessary  to  develop  comprehensive  measures  and 
reflect them in development strategies and programmes, 
including those related to the post-2015 period.
The  Assembly  will  recall  that  on  21  October  it 
elected  15  new  States  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  period  2015-2017  (see  A/69/PV.29). 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  sincerely  to 
congratulate them on their election to the Council and 
to  express  confidence  that  they  will  make  a  valuable 
contribution to its work during this challenging period.
Kyrgyzstan was previously elected as a member of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2009-2012, 
including  as  Vice-President  and  Rapporteur  of  the 
Bureau  of  the  Council.  We  express  our  readiness  to 
continue  actively  participating  in  the  work  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-63478 (E)
*1463478*
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
Council. In that connection, Kyrgyzstan has presented 
its  candidature  for  membership  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  period  2016-2018.  If  elected  to  the 
Council,  Kyrgyzstan  will  make  every  effort  to  apply 
its  acquired  experience  in  promoting  dialogue  and 
constructive  cooperation  among  all  interested  States, 
taking into account national and regional developments 
and  the  cultural,  historic  and  religious  traditions  of 
States  and  the  sustainable  development  goals  for  the 
post-2015 period.
The  current  global  situation  demonstrates  the 
increasing role of international agencies in the field of the 
protection of human rights, including the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR),  in  the  maintenance  of  peace,  security  and 
stability. Kyrgyzstan supports the activities of OHCHR 
and advocates its improved efficiency and constructive 
cooperation with the Human Rights Council, especially 
in the implementation of programmes to strengthen the 
capacities of countries in promoting the observance of 
human rights.
Mr.  Boureima  (Niger),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
We  consider  the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR) 
the  most  effective  mechanism  for  strengthening 
international  cooperation  in  the  protection  of  human 
rights. The voluntary implementation of the outcome of 
the UPR is assisting in promoting the advancement of 
human rights in all Member States.
In  that  regard,  we  should  note  the  positive  work 
of the Council in ensuring the universal nature of the 
UPR,  which  is  important  for  effective  action  in  the 
human rights area. At the same time, further attention 
is  needed  to  assist  countries  in  the  implementation 
of  the  recommendations  of  the  universal  periodic 
review  through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance 
in  accordance  with  national  priorities  in  the  field  of 
human rights.
Kyrgyzstan  presented  its  first  national  report 
under  the  universal  periodic  review  process  in  2010. 
Subsequently, 154 out of the 168 UPR recommendations 
were  adopted  as  voluntary  commitments.  Today,  the 
preparation  of  the  second  national  report  under  the 
UPR has been completed. In general, over the past four 
years, Kyrgyzstan has presented six periodic reports to 
United Nations treaty bodies.
However,  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  remains  a  challenge,  especially  for  the  least 
developed  and  developing  countries,  owing  largely  to 
the lack of resources to support appropriate institutions 
and  mechanisms  needed  for  further  reforms.  It  is 
necessary  to  take  that  factor  into  account  within 
the  framework  of  the  Council’s  activities  and  the 
multilateral partnerships among member States.
In  conclusion,  let  me  once  again  reiterate  our 
strong  commitment  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  ensuring  the  maintenance 
of  international  standards  and  the  strengthening  of 
multilateral cooperation in the field of human rights.
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  and  congratulate  the 
Ambassador of Gabon to Geneva and President of the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  his  work.  I  wish  to  refer 
in  particular  to  an  issue  that  he  highlighted  in  his 
statement in this morning’s meeting (see A/69/PV.52), 
namely,  the  political  manipulation  that  increasingly 
burdens the work of the Human Rights Council.
The  Human  Rights  Council  was  established 
to  overcome  the  double  standards,  confrontational 
posture and political manipulations of the Commission 
on  Human  Rights.  However, 
that  same  Council 
today  needs  to  be  rescued  from  the  selectivity  and 
manipulation that has characterized its work in dealing 
with country situations. That is clear from the various 
initiatives adopted by the Council during the reporting 
period now before the Assembly.
That  is  the  reality  we  confront,  when  respectful 
dialogue  and  cooperation  should  be  guiding  the 
work  of  that  body.  Rather  than  promoting  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  universal  periodic  review  mechanism 
as  the  primary  tool  for  the  comprehensive  analysis 
of  countries’  human-rights  situations,  confrontation, 
coercion  and  even  the  promotion  of  sanctions  against 
sovereign States are favoured.
There  is  an  attempt  to  stigmatize  developing 
countries, without even allowing them an opportunity 
to  defend  themselves.  Punishment  is  meted  out  based 
on  unverified  allegations  about  the  situation  on  the 
ground.  It  is  unacceptable  that  one  of  the  resolutions 
adopted by the Council seeks to impose the precedent 
and,  of  course,  the  practice  of  manipulating  the 
procedures  established  by  the  Council  to  fabricate 
pretexts for punishment and sanctions through referrals 
to the Security Council and the International Criminal 
Court,  a  body  where  the  powerful  are  invariably  and 
always guaranteed impunity.
2/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
Cuba will actively reject such a serious precedent. 
What  is  at  play  are  rights  as  sacred  as  the  right  to 
self-determination, the right to peace and the right to 
development for all peoples and countries of the South. 
Neglecting  that  would  transform  us  into  accomplices 
of a practice that will in future threaten all developing 
countries  and  all 
the  protections 
guaranteed to the powerful through impunity — all of 
the  vulnerable  and  all  of  those  who  are  oppressed  by 
the power elites.
lacking 
those 
Cuba  will  continue 
to  promote  constructive 
dialogue and respect for the principles of universality, 
objectivity, 
impartiality  and  non-selectivity.  We 
will  continue  to  defend  the  special  procedures  and 
mechanisms of the Council established to promote such 
cooperation,  and  we  will  continue  to  work  to  prevent 
them from becoming tools for political manipulation on 
the basis of certain hegemonic interests.
Cuba will continue to work for the promotion and 
protection of human rights, the human rights of peoples, 
the rights of the third generation and the right to food, 
and to work for the establishment of a democratic and 
equitable  international  order.  Cuba  will  also  continue 
to work for the promotion of the right to international 
solidarity and for the fight against racism, xenophobia 
and  all  forms  of  discrimination.  We  will  continue  to 
work to achieve cultural rights and respect for diversity.
In  short,  Cuba  will  continue  to  be  committed  to 
ensuring that a world where human rights for all is no 
longer a pipe dream.
Mr.  Sinjaree  (Iraq)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Our 
delegation  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
who was with us this morning and briefed the Assembly 
about the activities of the Human Rights Council over 
the past year (see A/69/PV.52). We would also like to 
thank him for his personal activities and for his success 
in carrying out his duties as President of the Council. 
Our delegation has reviewed the report of the Human 
Rights  Council  (A/69/53)  and  appreciates  the  efforts 
that went into its preparation.
After  the  terrorist  attacks  that  Iraq  suffered  in 
various areas on 10 June, namely, the control over parts 
of  Iraq  by  the  terrorist  gangs  of  the  Islamic  State  in 
Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL),  the  violations  that  took 
place  alongside  those  attacks  carried  out  by  those 
barbaric  gangs,  namely,  killings,  forced  expulsions, 
especially of minorities, massacres of captive soldiers 
and other Iraqi prisoners, the detention of women and 
all forms of violations against those women, Iraqis have 
sought to expose those crimes before the international 
community  and  international  human  rights  forums. 
Iraq called for a special session of the Human Rights 
Council,  the  twenty-second  special  session,  which 
resulted  in  the  issuing  of  Council  resolution  22/1, 
agreed upon by consensus. The resolution reflects the 
support of the international community for Iraq’s efforts 
in confronting those terrorist groups; the international 
community also urged greater efforts to assist Iraq to 
protect its civilians and provide assistance for them.
Under  that  resolution,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
asks the Office of the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights  to  send  a  special  team  to  Iraq  to  investigate 
allegations of violations of international human rights 
law by the ISIL terrorist gangs, as well as to establish 
a fact-finding mission into those violations in order to 
avoid any impunity. In that context, Iraq reiterates its 
complete readiness to cooperate with the team and the 
mission of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
and hopes that they will achieve their objectives within 
the limits of their mandate.
In conclusion, we wish to express our gratitude to 
all  countries  that  have  assisted  and  supported  Iraq  in 
its efforts to hold that special session, to the States that 
have supported the draft resolution that was eventually 
issued,  and  all  States  that  have  backed  military, 
technical and humanitarian support for Iraq in its fight 
against terrorism.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
first  like  to  pay  a  special  tribute  to  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  and  to  congratulate  him  for  his 
leadership and for the outstanding skill with which he 
led the work of the Council during this year, including 
the dynamism that he has brought to the activities of the 
Council during his presidency.
The  international  community  is  preparing  to 
celebrate the tenth anniversary of the establishment of 
the Human Rights Council, which has become the main 
United Nations body responsible for human rights issues. 
With dialogue, cooperation and technical assistance as 
the basis of its work, the Council has been successful in 
obtaining the commitment and cooperation of several 
States.  Furthermore,  its  innovative  mechanism,  the 
universal periodic review, has shown that universality 
and  cooperation  remain  the  key  for  promoting  and 
effectively protecting human rights. For their part, the 
14-63478
3/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
special  procedures  continue  to  play  an  indispensable 
role  in  informing  the  Council  of  developments  in  the 
field of human rights around the world and in providing 
it with the necessary expertise on thematic issues.
Council. The aim is to have those activities covered by 
the  regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to 
guarantee the fulfilment of the mandate of the Council 
in full independence.
The  international  community  has  therefore  the 
duty  to  protect  the  achievements  of  the  Council  and 
to preserve the Council’s work from politicization and 
instrumentalization.
As  we  are  aware  of  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations  system  in  the  field  of  human  rights, 
Morocco was committed, from the very beginning, to 
the process of establishing the Human Rights Council 
in  2005.  Morocco’s  modest  contribution  culminated 
in  the  establishment  of  the  universal  periodic  review 
mechanism, of which it was the architect through the 
role  that  my  country  assumed  as  a  facilitator  of  that 
mechanism, both during the process of its creation in 
2006 and 2007, and during the process of review of its 
operation and its methods of work in 2011.
Morocco’s  interest  in  strengthening  the  Council 
and  its  mechanisms  has  also  manifested  itself  in  the 
actions  that  it  has  taken  within  this  past  year  aimed 
at providing the Council with the necessary means to 
enable  it  to  fully  carry  out  its  mandate.  To  that  end, 
Morocco, along with a group of countries, launched an 
initiative  that  led  to  the  creation  of  a  voluntary  fund 
for  the  participation  of  the  least-developed  countries 
and the small island developing States in the work of 
the Human Rights Council. The noble objective of that 
initiative is to guarantee the principle of universality and 
the equality of States by assisting countries that do not 
possess the necessary resources to actively participate 
in the work of the Council. My delegation is gratified 
by the launch of the fund by the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights. My delegation especially welcomes the 
fact that a number of countries have already benefited 
from financing from the fund. Within the framework of 
our commitment to those countries, Morocco will host 
a training seminar next month, which will be organized 
in  the  framework  of  the  fund.  Representatives  from 
French-speaking  least-developed  countries  and  small 
island developing States will benefit from it.
In 
the 
framework  of  our  commitment 
to 
strengthening  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Morocco, 
along  with  a  number  of  countries,  is  undertaking  an 
initiative  at  several  levels  at  the  United  Nations  to 
strengthen  the  financial  resources  available  to  the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  especially  in 
implementing activities mandated by the Human Rights 
A joint declaration to that end was read before the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  2012.  It  was  followed  by  a 
letter  addressed  by  the  Ambassadors  of  our  countries 
to the Secretary-General. It is my pleasure to announce 
that  Morocco  will  this  week  read  out  in  the  Fifth 
Committee  a  joint  statement  on  behalf  of  our  group 
of  States.  We  encourage  all  delegations  to  lend  their 
support to the joint statement.
The  Human  Rights  Council  continues  to  face 
barriers to the implementation of its mandate. That is 
why a balanced, vigilant and victim-centred approach 
to tackling the emerging human rights problems facing 
the world is ever more necessary.
The  growing  importance  of  human  rights  in 
international  relations  calls  for  the  Human  Rights 
Council  to  be  very  active  and  show  greater  visibility. 
However, the Human Rights Council is rarely mentioned 
by the media and, if it is mentioned, it is represented 
inaccurately. That body should do more to ensure the 
visibility of its work. It is therefore time, in our view, 
for  the  Council  to  adopt  a  communication  strategy 
that  adequately  reflects  its  work  in  advocating  for, 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights.  With  greater 
visibility, the Council will have greater impact on the 
ground and will contribute further to the promotion and 
protection of human rights.
Furthermore, it is inconceivable that the Council is 
seized annually with more than 100 draft resolutions in 
addition to the growing number of special procedures 
and panels, which are a burden on the Council’s working 
capacity  and  prevent  delegations  from  following  and 
contributing effectively and constructively to all of its 
work.  Considerable  efforts  should  therefore  be  made 
to lighten the workload of the Human Rights Council, 
specifically through a genuine effort to streamline its 
working methods and mechanisms.
Finally, the members of the Human Rights Council 
must  resist  attempts  to  deflect  it  from  the  mandate 
entrusted  to  it  by  the  General  Assembly,  so  as  to 
safeguard its achievements and ensure the effectiveness 
of its action.
My  delegation  underscores  the  important  role  of 
civil society in the promotion and protection of human 
rights.  It  provides  valuable  support  to  the  efforts  of 
4/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
States  and  helps  to  strengthen  respect  for  human 
rights  on  the  ground.  In  recognition  of  the  role  of 
civil-society  bodies,  Morocco  incorporated  that  role 
in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  into 
its Constitution of 2011. Morocco’s openness to those 
important actors in human rights earned us significant 
recognition,  including  our  designation  as  host  of  the 
second  World  Forum  on  Human  Rights,  which  will 
take place from 27 to 30 November in Marrakesh, with 
the participation of more than 5,000 governmental and 
non-governmental actors.
The  Forum  represents  international  recognition 
of  the  Kingdom’s  achievements  in  that  field  and 
the  vitality  of  national  institutions  and  civil  society 
organizations working in the field of human rights. My 
country  is  honoured  by  the  trust  placed  in  us  by  the 
non-governmental organizations of the world and will 
make  every  effort  to  ensure  the  full  success  of  their 
global forum.
I  would 
the 
commitment  of  Morocco  to  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights and fundamental freedoms at the national 
and  international  levels  alike,  including  through  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  As  a  founding  member  of 
the Council that also serves on it, Morocco will spare 
no  effort  to  uphold  its  principles  and  objectives  and 
enhance its efficiency and effectiveness.
to  conclude  by  recalling 
like 
Mr.  Šćepanović  (Montenegro):  At  the  outset,  let 
me thank the President of the Human Rights Council, 
Ambassador Baudelaire Ndong Ella, for presenting the 
Council’s ninth annual report to the General Assembly 
(A/69/53).  We  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  interact 
with  the  President  of  the  Council  and  the  dialogue 
between the Council and the General Assembly.
Montenegro  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (see 
A/69/PV.52).
itself  with 
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  undoubtedly 
become an important venue for addressing international 
crises and finding global solutions to tough challenges 
as  they  unfold.  While  all  Human  Rights  Council 
member States make strengthening the credibility and 
effectiveness  of  the  multilateral  human  rights  system 
a  priority,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once  again  that 
Montenegro will maximize its efforts towards that end. 
As  human  rights  are  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars 
of  the  United  Nations  system,  the  Government  of 
Montenegro recognizes the necessity of supporting the 
Council in fulfilling its mandate.
We applaud the Human Rights Council’s proactive 
and  leading  role  in  dealing  with  crisis  situations  and 
gross  violations  of  human  rights  in  all  corners  of 
the  world.  The  Human  Rights  Council  has  achieved 
significant progress in dealing with human rights issues 
across the globe since its establishment eight years ago. 
The contribution of the Human Rights Council is even 
more  important  and  relevant  in  situations  where  the 
Security Council is unable to provide a timely response 
to a pressing emergency. In that regard, we commend 
and strongly support the establishment and the work of 
the various commissions of inquiry that collect, despite 
all  of  the  difficulties  encountered,  detailed  accounts 
of violations. We appreciate their continuing efforts to 
illuminate deteriorating situations.
Montenegro  will  persist  in  advocating  for  full 
accountability  for  all  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian 
law.  Montenegro  also 
reaffirms 
its  support  for  comprehensive  political 
solutions as the best way to stop atrocities and ensure 
respect for all human rights. We therefore encourage all 
parties to reject violence and participate constructively 
in an inclusive peace process.
Given that the universal periodic review is meant 
to  be  an  efficient  instrument  for  a  transparent  and 
objective  assessment  of  the  human-rights  situation  in 
each Member State, we feel compelled to contribute to 
that positive result. The activities involved are activities 
that  we  cannot  and  do  not  implement  individually. 
Therefore,  the  involvement  and  cooperation  of  all 
stakeholders  —  the  Human  Rights  Council,  special 
procedures, non-governmental organizations and other 
State  and  non-State  actors  —  will  be  of  the  utmost 
importance. Allow me to stress that the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR) also plays a vital role in encouraging States 
and  providing  them  with  assistance  to  meet  their 
protection responsibilities.
At  this  point,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
Montenegro  has  extended  a  standing  invitation  to  all 
special procedures, as we are firmly convinced of their 
crucial  role  in  advancing  the  human-rights  agenda. 
By  doing  so,  we  have  demonstrated  our  commitment 
to  cooperate  and  respect  the  highest  standard  of 
protection. In that regard, we expect all Member States 
to follow the same path.
14-63478
5/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
I would like in particular to voice my concern about 
the shortfalls in the funding of the Office of the High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  Allow  me  to  recall 
that  Montenegro  was  one  of  more  than  50  countries 
that  called  on  the  Secretary-General  to  recommend 
that a larger proportion of the United Nations regular 
budget be devoted to the OHCHR, given the significant 
and  continuing  growth  in  the  volume  of  the  Office’s 
activities.  Bearing  in  mind  the  surge  of  interest  in 
human rights — reflected, inter alia, in the proliferation 
of new mechanisms and mandates, human rights treaty 
bodies and treaty body experts and resolutions adopted 
by the Council — we strongly believe that the funding 
deficit  should  be  addressed  as  a  matter  of  priority  in 
order  not  to  compromise  the  capacity  of  OHCHR  to 
carry out its complex mandate.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
let  me  reiterate  our  genuine  commitment  to  further 
advancing  the  human-rights  agenda  and  ensuring  the 
implementation  of  international  human  rights  norms 
and standards.
Ms.  Diaz  Gras  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Mexico  welcomes  the  report  (A/69/53)  introduced 
this  morning  by  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  Ambassador  Ndong  Ella  (see  A/69/PV.52), 
and appreciates the effort and dedication he has shown 
in  the  conduct  of  his  duties.  Since  Mexico  assumed 
its  membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
January  2014,  its  participation  has  been  governed  by 
the  principles  of  universality,  non-selectivity,  balance 
and  the  promotion  of  cooperation.  My  delegation 
recognizes  the  need  to  promote  greater  cooperation 
and  dialogue  among  regions  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
introduction of new issues of common interest on the 
basis  of  consensus.  We  believe  that  the  President’s 
role  in  the  work  of  the  Council  is  critical  to  building 
alliances and understanding among regional groups, a 
task to which my country reiterates its support.
We  believe  that  it  is  important  to  strengthen  the 
Council’s  effectiveness  and  improve  its  coordination 
with  other  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
particularly in preventing human rights crises. In that 
respect, it is crucial to take advantage of the analyses 
and reports produced by the various special procedures 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  identify  critical 
human  rights  situations  and  act  in  a  timely  fashion. 
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  the  Council  should 
capitalize  on  innovative  tools  such  as  the  universal 
periodic  review  (UPR)  mechanism.  It  is  important  to 
promote  a  greater  exchange  of  experiences,  common 
challenges and cooperation among countries within the 
context  of  the  UPR  working  group  meetings,  so  that 
that  important  exercise  can  have  sufficient  impact  on 
improving  the  human  rights  situation  on  the  ground. 
Another important tool, which has been expanded and 
improved within the framework of the Human Rights 
Council,  is  the  cooperation  and  technical  assistance 
offered  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  In  that  respect,  we 
consider  it  necessary  to  find  a  more  efficient  use  of 
existing  mechanisms  in  the  Council,  particularly  the 
special procedures, in order to respond to the need to 
monitor,  investigate  and  provide  technical  advice  in 
urgent human rights situations.
Mexico  reiterates  the  commitment  of  States  to 
provide the Human Rights Council with the necessary 
tools to fulfil its mandate, and we must recognize the 
legitimacy  of  its  decisions  at  all  times.  Likewise,  we 
reiterate once again the need to provide the Office of 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  with  the 
necessary resources so that it can adequately fulfil its 
mandate,  based  on  the  responsibilities  that  member 
States  have  conferred  on  it.  My  delegation  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  the  work  done  by  the  Council  as 
the  most  important  body  of  the  Organization  devoted 
to  carrying  out  the  delicate  tasks  of  promoting  and 
protecting human rights around the world. Mexico will 
continue to participate constructively in support of the 
implementation of its mandate.
Mr.  Elbahi  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Our 
delegation has listened to the briefing by the President 
of the Human Rights Council (see A/69/PV.52) and has 
reviewed the Council’s report (A/69/53), which covers 
its activities and meetings for the first half of this year. 
We highly appreciate the presence this morning of the 
President of the Council, as well as his briefing to the 
General Assembly.
At  the  outset,  our  delegation  aligns  itself  with 
the  representative  of 
the  statement  delivered  by 
Mauritania  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States 
(see A/69/PV.52).
We  should  also  like  to  state  that  the  Sudan  has 
ratified the International Covenant on Economic, Social 
and Cultural Rights; the International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights; the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination; the 
Convention against Torture and Other Forms of Cruel, 
Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment;  the 
6/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  and  its  two 
Protocols;  the  International  Convention  on  the  Rights 
of  Persons  with  Disabilities;  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide; 
and 
the  Maternity  Protection  Convention,  2000 
(No. 183) of the International Labour Organization. We 
are also proud to support all international human rights 
mechanisms,  including  those  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  as  presented  by  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  last  September  in  Geneva.  We  call 
upon the United Nations and other donors to fulfil their 
obligations  as  indicated  in  the  recent  Human  Rights 
Council  resolutions  related  to  technical  assistance 
and  capacity-building.  We  welcome  the  appointment 
of  the  new  independent  expert  and  we  reiterate  our 
willingness to cooperate with him in accordance with 
his important mandate.
My  country  has  adopted  policies,  programmes 
and  strategies  aimed  at  promoting  and  supporting 
human rights in the Sudan. In that context, we would 
like to remind the Assembly of the following national 
achievements.
First,  we  have  established  an 
independent 
commission on human rights in accord with the Paris 
Principles, and it has been in operation for more than 
three years now.
Secondly, we have created an entire justice system 
for juvenile rights, including a special law for children, 
while  providing  training  for  judges  and  specialists. 
In  implementation  of  that  law,  we  have  created  the 
National Council for the Support of Children.
Thirdly, over three years ago, we created a special 
tribunal for Darfur and appointed a General Prosecutor.  
Since its establishment, the tribunal has begun its work 
and  has  been  receiving  complaints  and  cases  from 
victims.
Fourthly, our armed and security forces and police 
law  very  clearly  specifies  the  illegality  of  recruiting 
children under 18. We have established child-protection 
units  and  family-protection  units  within  the  armed 
forces and police, as well as units to combat violence 
against women and young girls.
Fifthly, the Sudan has adopted a law on disabilities 
and  a  law  against  human  trafficking,  especially  of 
women and children. In October, we hosted a regional 
conference  to  combat  trafficking  in  persons  in  the 
Horn  of  Africa  with  broad,  high-level  regional  and 
international participation.
Various social groups and entities have participated 
recently in the national dialogue initiatives started by 
the President of the Sudan in order to address all issues 
and concerns of national interest and of concern to the 
stability  of  the  country.  We  hope  that  the  outcome  of 
that initiative will be positive and good for the future 
of the people of the Sudan and strengthen its enjoyment 
of all its rights.
We reaffirm that the universality and indivisibility 
of  human  rights  means  that  all  human  rights  should 
be  addressed  equally  with  the  same  level  of  attention 
without  differentiation.  We  call  upon  members  to 
pay  attention  to  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights 
and  the  right  to  development  on  the  same  level  as 
civic  and  political  rights.  We  also  emphasize  that 
addressing  human  rights  should  be  done  on  the  basis 
of constructive cooperation in line with the promotion 
of,  and  support  for,  human  rights,  while  avoiding  the 
politicization  of  those  rights  in  a  way  that  does  not 
violate the sovereignty of the State as the primary party 
responsible for the protection of those rights.
Our delegation insistently calls for the international 
community to confront and end the attempts by some to 
export novel sexual concepts in a way that completely 
disregards  the  particular  specificities  and  religious 
norms and cultural traditions of various countries and 
societies,  given  the  importance  of  the  norm  that  the 
family is the most important element.
There are many new issues that require the tripartite 
cooperation of the Human Rights Council, the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights and other stakeholders and mechanisms, on one 
side, as well as horizontal cooperation between States, 
on  the  other,  rather  than  having  some  States  appoint 
themselves judges and evaluators of the human rights 
situations in other States.
that 
takes 
the  world 
In conclusion, my delegation calls for the adoption 
of  a  comprehensive  approach  to  human  rights  issues 
around 
into  consideration 
development and support for developing States, while 
eliminating  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  on  them, 
lifting  restrictions  on  their  exports  and  addressing 
the  effects  of  climate  change,  in  order  to  enable 
them  to  meet  all  their  obligations  in  protecting  and 
defending human rights. We also urge for support for 
and protection of the Palestinian people in the face of 
the continuing violations of their human rights by the 
Israeli occupying authorities.
14-63478
7/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
Mr. Hoem (Norway): Norway would like to thank 
the President of the Human Rights Council, Ambassador 
Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  for  the  way  in  which  he  has 
presided  over  the  Council  in  2014  and  for  presenting 
this  year’s  annual  report  (A/69/53)  this  morning  (see 
A/69/PV.52). The Human Rights Council has continued 
to be relevant and to show its ability to make important 
decisions.  Cross-regional  agreements  and  alliances 
increase  the  Council’s  relevance  and  credibility,  and 
that  way  of  conducting  its  business  has  become  the 
rule  rather  than  the  exception.  On  several  potentially 
contentious issues, the Council has managed to achieve 
consensus.
This year, Norway negotiated the extension of two 
mandates in the Council. We were grateful for the record 
number of countries, from all regions, that sponsored 
the  March  resolution  extending  the  mandate  of  the 
Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of 
the right to freedom of opinion and expression. We also 
thank  States  for  their  support  in  achieving  consensus 
on extending the mandate of the working group on the 
issue  of  human  rights  and  transnational  corporations 
and  other  business  enterprises,  through  a  resolution 
that also addressed important issues such as remedies 
for victims of human rights abuses inflicted by States 
and businesses. We were glad to see that several other 
resolutions  adopted  this  year  also  include  language 
on  protecting  human  rights  defenders,  condemning 
reprisals and widening the space for civil society.
Unfortunately,  in  several  places  around  the  world 
such  gains  in  the  normative  sphere  of  the  Council 
have  not  translated  into  an  improved  situation  for 
civil society and human rights defenders, and in many 
countries their space is shrinking. We are also shocked 
to  note  that  threats,  attacks  and  acts  of  intimidation 
continue against many who have cooperated or sought 
to  cooperate  with  the  United  Nations,  including 
through the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms. 
Reprisals cause pain and suffering, violate the rights of 
individuals and undermine the credibility of the United 
Nations and its ability to carry out its work. As such, 
they  represent  an  attack  on  the  very  institution  that 
we  have  built  here  together.  Such  shameful  practices 
demand a firmer response from the United Nations and 
its  States  Members.  We  acknowledge  the  role  of  the 
President of the Human Rights Council in dealing with 
such issues, and the need to take a principled and vocal 
stance. We also have high expectations of the General 
Assembly in that regard, and we urge that the Council’s 
important resolution 24/24 of last year on reprisals be 
speedily  implemented.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  in 
that regard the important point just made today by the 
representative of Morocco on enhancing the visibility 
of the Council and its decisions.
We  were  very  pleased  that  the  Council  adopted  a 
resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity in 
September. Only the second such resolution in history, 
it  was  adopted  with  a  large  majority,  gaining  support 
from  new  countries.  We  thank  Colombia,  Uruguay, 
Brazil and Chile for their leadership.
review 
(UPR) 
The  universal  periodic 
still 
maintains  a  100  per  cent  participation  rate  by  States. 
This year, Norway was one of the countries to undergo 
the  review,  and  we  again  found  it  very  helpful  in 
addressing important issues and guiding human rights 
implementation in our country.
As  a  complement  to  the  UPR  mechanism,  the 
Council  proved  once  again  that  it  does  not  shy  away 
from  tackling  serious  human  rights  situations  when 
necessary.  In  2014,  that  included  an  African-led 
initiative to establish a commission of inquiry on Eritrea 
and a cross-regional effort to establish an investigation 
of  Sri  Lanka  led  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR),  as 
well  as  three  special  sessions.  We  also  saw  a  steady 
demand for country-specific resolutions and initiatives 
from  States  on  their  own  situations,  attesting  to  the 
Council’s growing positive reputation and its ability to 
set in motion action in support of countries’ own efforts 
to promote human rights.
Norway  is  concerned  about  the  Council’s  limited 
resources  for  delivering  on  its  workload  as  it  takes 
on  an  increasing  number  of  issues  and  creates  an 
unprecedented number of new mandates. The ability of 
the Council’s secretariat, OHCHR and States to follow 
up  is  not  developing  at  the  same  pace.  The  chronic 
underfunding  of  human  rights,  one  of  the  three  main 
pillars of the United Nations, is well known. The 3 per 
cent  of  the  regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations  that 
it  receives  is  so  unsustainable  that  OHCHR,  instead 
of  expanding,  is  now  having  to  cut  posts.  The  States 
Members of the United Nations have a responsibility to 
ensure that OHCHR, a key institution for promoting and 
protecting human rights in the United Nations system 
and  supporting  the  Human  Rights  Council,  can  fulfil 
its mandate in the light of the increasing demands.
Finally,  Norway  continues  to  be  disappointed  by 
the fact that the annual resolution on the Human Rights 
8/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
Council’s  report  is  still  being  presented  to  the  Third 
Committee  rather  than  the  plenary  of  the  General 
Assembly.  In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281,  on 
the review of the Council, it is up to the Assembly, not 
the  Third  Committee,  to  take  action  on  the  Council’s 
important report.
Mr.  Kohona  (Sri  Lanka):  I  thank  the  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  presenting  its 
report  (A/69/53).  Sri  Lanka  recognizes  the  important 
contribution  that  the  Council  can  make  to  protecting 
and promoting human rights around the world.
In 2006 the United Nations human rights protection 
system  underwent  major  institutional  reform,  and 
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  was  replaced  by 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  should  recall  that 
one  of  the  fundamental  reasons  for  the  change  was 
the  need  to  address  the  unproductive  politicization 
that  overshadowed  the  Commission.  Sadly,  many 
delegations in the Assembly today have expressed the 
same concerns, suggesting that the Council is heading 
in the same direction as the former Commission. That 
is a worrying development and could rob the Council 
of its effectiveness and legitimacy. It is a situation that 
Sri  Lanka  is  particularly  concerned  about.  The  way 
in which the Council has also begun to target specific 
countries in a selective manner does not bode well for 
its  future.  A  handful  of  countries  have  been  selected 
for  adverse  attention  by  the  Council,  while  others  in 
similar circumstances are ignored.
As  the  President  indicated,  Sri  Lanka  was  the 
subject of Council resolution 25/1, entitled “Promoting 
reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri 
Lanka”.  It  is  unfortunate  that  Sri  Lanka  became  the 
subject of a resolution despite widespread recognition 
that  we  had  done  more  to  address  the  issues  arising 
from  the  conflict  and  to  promote  reconciliation  and 
reconstruction than almost any other country emerging 
from  similar  circumstances  in  the  very  short  period 
of  five  years.  Moreover,  the  resolution  infringes  on 
a  fundamental  principle  of  international  law,  which 
requires that national mechanisms need to be exhausted 
before  resorting  to  international  ones.  The  resolution 
and  its  mandate  also  challenge  the  sovereignty  and 
independence of a State Member of the United Nations 
by  calling  for  a  comprehensive  investigation  of  Sri 
Lanka’s  alleged  human  rights  violations  at  a  time 
when the country has launched its own inquiries with, 
inter  alia,  the  assistance  of  eminent  international 
personalities.  It  also  intrinsically  contradicts  itself 
by  requesting  both  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR) 
and  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  to  conduct  parallel 
investigations. What it may have achieved is a further 
hardening of positions on the part of the supporters of 
the  defeated  terrorist  group,  which  may  now  seek  to 
achieve through international intervention what it could 
not realize through terrorism — not a helpful precedent 
for other countries fighting terrorism.
Soon after ending the conflict, the Government of 
Sri Lanka launched its domestic reconciliation process 
by  appointing  the  Lessons  Learnt  and  Reconciliation 
Commission. After analysing over 1,000 oral and 5,000 
written  submissions,  the  Commission  presented  a 
388-page final report in 2011, with 144 comprehensive 
recommendations and observations. Soon after receiving 
the report, the Government developed a national plan 
of  action  to  implement  those  recommendations  and 
appointed 
the  Inter-Agency  Advisory  Committee 
overseen  by  the  Secretary  to  the  President  in  order 
to  facilitate  implementation.  In  August  2013,  the 
Government  appointed  a  three-member  presidential 
commission  of  inquiry  to  investigate  the  matter  of 
missing  persons.  The  commission  has  so  far  received 
19,761  complaints  for  investigation.  An  international 
advisory  panel  has  been  appointed  to  assist  the 
commission. Many of the recommendations have been 
implemented, while others are in the process of being 
implemented. It is important to recognize that 27 years 
of terrorist-inspired pain and agony cannot be wished 
away  in  five  short  years.  What  really  matters  is  that 
today we are living in peace, with a booming economy 
that is benefiting all our people.
By  calling  for  an  investigation  of  Sri  Lanka,  the 
Human Rights Council has not given adequate credit to 
our national reconciliation process. It has also ignored 
the basic principle of working in the first instance with 
the country concerned. For those reasons, inter alia, the 
Government of Sri Lanka has rejected Human Rights 
Council resolution 25/1. Sri Lanka is firmly committed 
to doing the right thing by its people. I regret the news 
release issued by OHCHR two weeks ago, which casts 
aspersions on the intentions of the Government of Sri 
Lanka. I would like to emphasize that the Government’s 
rejection of the Council’s investigation does not amount 
to concealing information. It underscores the fact that, 
as a proud and independent country and a people with a 
strong legal tradition, we are capable of conducting the 
necessary investigations.
14-63478
9/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
I  recall  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
appeal last Friday to members of the Assembly, which 
emphasized  the  need  to  protect  the  credibility  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Unfortunately,  if  the  Council 
continues  to  selectively  target  individual  countries,  it 
will lose its effectiveness and credibility. Such actions 
not only undermine the principles of impartiality and 
objectivity  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, but also negatively affect the cooperation that 
a  given  country  seeks  from  the  Council.  Against  that 
background,  an  important  question  arises:  will  the 
Council ever be able to move away from its politicized 
agenda,  which  is  laced  with  double  standards?  To  be 
effective, it must do so.
We  recognize  the  important  contribution  that 
mechanisms  such  as  the  universal  periodic  review 
(UPR) can make to improving human rights situations 
around the world. As we have consistently maintained, 
Sri Lanka considers the UPR to be the most appropriate 
forum in which human-rights-related matters pertaining 
to a country should be discussed, along with voluntary 
engagements  under  the  human  rights  treaties  and 
interactions  with  special  procedures  mechanisms.  Sri 
Lanka has appeared before the UPR on two occasions 
and is happy to work with it.
Sri  Lanka  also  notes  with  concern  the  financial 
constraints  facing  OHCHR  and  its  dependence  on 
voluntary  contributions.  We  recommend 
the 
OHCHR  be  financed  from  the  regular  budget  of 
the  United  Nations  in  order  to  reduce  its  unhealthy 
dependence  on  voluntary  contributions.  That  would 
strengthen  the  financial  independence  of  the  Office, 
thereby enhancing transparency and balance and making 
a positive contribution towards the depoliticization of 
its work.
that 
I therefore urge the President of the Human Rights 
Council  to  give  serious  consideration  to  the  views 
expressed by Member States in this debate, as well as 
in the Human Rights Council, and to make every effort 
to return the focus of the Council to its fundamentals. 
The Council was intended to make the world a better 
place by helping countries that needed assistance, and 
not  to  engage  in  selective  politics.  Such  an  approach 
would win the Human Rights Council the support of all 
parties  to  continue  its  important  work  and  contribute 
towards the protection and promotion of human rights.
Mr.  Ruiz  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council, for his briefing on the work of 
the Council in 2014.
I would like first of all to emphasize the importance 
that Colombia attaches to the Human Rights Council, 
which  has  proved  to  be  an  important  forum  for  the 
discussion, promotion and monitoring of human rights 
situations around the world. The Council’s institutional 
action  mechanisms,  including  the  special  procedures 
and especially the universal periodic review, have also 
been  important  for  their  catalysing  effect  and  impact 
on the ground.
For all those reasons, Colombia reiterates its firm 
support for the work of the Council and urges all States 
to participate in and collaborate with it. We particularly 
urge  members  to  support  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights so that 
it can continue to provide the necessary support to the 
Council and its mechanisms. It is important to keep in 
mind that countries are generating more work and more 
procedures for the Council, in large part owing to its 
success, but without having strengthened the capacities 
of the Office in a timely manner so as to enable it to 
take on the burden of new challenges.
There has recently been some criticism with respect 
to the partiality and growing politicization within the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Colombia  does  not  share  that 
interpretation. On the contrary, the Council has found 
areas  of  agreement  that  have  enabled  it  to  work  in  a 
collective manner despite clear differences on specific 
issues.
Colombia  believes  that  our  shared  commitment 
to  the  universalization  of  human  rights,  the  fight  to 
combat  all  forms  of  discrimination  and  the  struggle 
against  violence  are  principles  on  which  all  countries 
agree. They define the common ground for discussion, 
cooperation  and  the  exchange  of  experiences  among 
our States and have paved the way for actions that have 
had a positive impact on the ability of all the world’s 
people to enjoy their rights and liberties.
From the point of view of my country, that capability 
to build common ground and move forward was proved 
during the three sessions of the Council in the course 
of  2014.  The  Council  managed  to  adopt  important 
resolutions  that  undoubtedly  responded  to  the  calls 
made by the international community and civil society 
despite  the  differences  expressed  during  the  adoption 
process and negotiations.
10/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
For that reason, Colombia supports the report of the 
Human Rights Council for 2014 (A/69/53). We recognize 
the  importance  of  having  a  robust,  independent  and 
open  forum  that  is  sensitive  to  the  concerns  and 
priorities that countries have when it comes to human 
rights.  Similarly,  we  acknowledge  the  importance  of 
dialogue among partners to find the appropriate ways 
to implement resolutions adopted by the Human Rights 
Council,  as  was  mentioned  in  the  joint  letter  on  the 
report of the Council of 2013, dated 11 September 2014, 
on  the  understanding  of  the  institutional  relationship 
between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly.
Finally, allow me to reaffirm our strong support for 
and  cooperation  with  the  work  of  the  Council  and  its 
mechanisms.
Mr. Sareer (Maldives): At the outset, my delegation 
wishes to thank His Excellency Mr. Baudelaire Ndong 
Ella,  Permanent  Representative  of  Gabon  to  the 
United  Nations  Office  at  Geneva,  for  his  excellent 
work  as  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and for presenting the Council’s report to the General 
Assembly  (A/69/53)  (see  A/69/PV.52).  I  would  also 
like  to  congratulate  the  new  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zeid  Ra’ad  Al 
Hussein,  on  his  assumption  of  office,  and  to  reiterate 
the  Maldives  commitment  to  work  with  his  Office  to 
strengthen  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights across the globe. The Maldives would also like 
once  again  to  express  its  appreciation  to  the  former 
High Commissioner, Ms. Navi Pillay, for the important 
milestones  achieved  in  human  rights  during  her 
tenure, as well as the close relations she kept with the 
Government of Maldives.
This year has seen an exponential increase in the 
work of the Human Rights Council, as illustrated by the 
number of panels operating and the resolutions adopted 
at  the  recent  sessions.  The  special  sessions  dedicated 
to  human  rights  situations  in  the  Central  African 
Republic, the occupied Palestinian territories and Iraq 
are a clear indication of the growing importance of the 
Council and its mechanisms.
We  are  grateful  to  all  members  of  the  Council 
for  their  commitment  to  steering  through  the  human 
rights  challenges  of  the  year.  As  a  member  of  the 
Council,  the  Maldives  is  proud  of  what  the  Council 
has  achieved  together,  in  a  year  marred  by  violence, 
acts  of  aggression,  natural  disasters  and  intensifying 
climate change. While that is not an uplifting picture of 
the state of the world today, we are given hope by the 
reports of progress made by the Human Rights Council 
and presented to the General Assembly.
Human  rights  can  be  regarded  as 
the  most 
important  single  issue  for  international  cohesion  and 
cooperation  today.  Human  rights  are  a  matter  of  the 
highest priority when responding to conflict situations 
such  as  the  escalating  violence  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories.  However,  human  rights  also 
cut across all other items on the global agenda. There 
is  a  need  to  integrate  a  human-rights-based  approach 
to  development  as  the  Assembly  begins  its  work  to 
prepare  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  There  is 
also  a  need  to  address  the  human  rights  dimensions 
of  climate  change  when  concluding  an  international 
climate agreement in Paris 2015. Low-lying nations like 
the Maldives and many small island developing States 
(SIDS)  face  the  daily  reality  of  the  impact  of  climate 
change  and  understand  at  first  hand  the  fundamental 
need to address it.
The  Maldives 
is  currently  undergoing  rapid 
transformation; we are a young democracy and a recent 
graduate from the category of least developed countries 
(LDCs),  growing  steadily  in  terms  of  both  social  and 
economic  progress.  Yet,  as  a  small  island  developing 
State, our path to development faces grave uncertainties 
as a result of worsening climate-change scenarios. The 
core  principles  of  human  rights,  human  dignity  and 
the  rule  of  law  guide  us  through  these  times.  Those 
principles  are  embedded  in  the  new  Constitution  of 
2008. The constitutional protections for human rights 
have ensured that this new stage of development serves 
all people and leaves no one behind. The Government 
has given life to those principles with positive law and 
policies. The poor and the vulnerable have the right to 
social  security  and  income  support  under  the  social 
protection act; the elderly are entitled to pensions; the 
disabled  receive  Government  support  pursuant  to  the 
disabilities  act;  and  all  Maldivians  enjoy  universal 
health care. Most notably, the Maldives has made great 
strides  in  advancing  the  rights  of  women,  as  seen  by 
the recent enactment of the sexual offences and sexual 
harassment act, which is aimed at addressing violence 
and discrimination against women.
As seen in the past few years, the Maldives, although 
a  small  country,  has  raised  its  voice  in  promoting 
human rights at the international level. The Maldives is 
currently serving a second term on the Human Rights 
Council. The Maldives has remained committed in its 
14-63478
11/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
participation  and  contributions  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  while  highlighting  the  need  to  give  voice 
to  smaller  States  in  larger  forums.  In  particular,  the 
Maldives has brought the human rights agenda of small 
island developing States to the fore at the Human Rights 
Council, as well as at the General Assembly.
The  concept  of  universal  human  rights,  as  one  of 
the  founding  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  should  not  be  in  conflict  with  national 
sovereignty.  States  must  be  open  to  willingly  engage 
in  international  human  rights  mechanisms,  such  as 
the universal periodic review process, including those 
countries in difficult human rights situations. We value 
the  technical  and  other  advisory  assistance  provided 
by  the  United  Nations  to  assist  States  to  implement 
the  UPR  recommendations.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the ongoing efforts of the Human Rights Council, the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  and  the  special  mandate- 
holders to provide that assistance, and we urge donors 
to ensure that those vital institutions have the resources 
needed  to  fulfil  their  mandates.  Despite  the  limited 
and  depleted  resources  available  to  the  Office  of  the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the  Office 
has  continued  its  engagement  with  Member  States  to 
ensure that human rights situations are addressed. The 
Maldives  has  always  advocated  for  the  importance  of 
technical  assistance  to  improve  human  rights.  That 
is  especially  useful  for  LDCs  and  SIDS,  which  face 
major challenges in terms of resources and expertise in 
addressing those issues.
the 
While 
legal  framework  of  human  rights 
protections  is  becoming  more  complex  and  robust, 
the  implementation  and  enforcement  of  human  rights 
on  the  ground  remains  a  critical  issue.  The  Maldives 
recognizes that success in realizing human rights cannot 
be  achieved  by  laws  and  instruments  alone.  We  must 
foster a culture of civic responsibility and respect for 
human rights to complement the formal and statutory 
measures already in place. To be meaningful, the value 
of  human  rights  must  be  embedded  in  institutions 
and be inherent in the way we treat one another. The 
experience of the Maldives suggests that the enjoyment 
of human rights and freedoms can be attained only by 
cultivating  values  and  building  resilience  in  society. 
We  must  therefore  combine  human  rights  policy-
making with programmes and trainings to mainstream 
a human-rights-based approach in our institutions and 
education to instil a sense of responsibility and respect 
for human rights in society. Our aim should not be to 
meet  the  bare  minimum  standards  of  human  rights 
prescribed by law or dictated by politics, but to strive 
boldly towards the higher, moral responsibility to fulfil 
human rights for all. We urge all nations to join us in 
that pursuit: aim high and go beyond.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 63.
Before giving the floor to speakers in the exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply,  may  I  remind  delegations  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and 
5  minutes  for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats.
the  Syrian  delegation 
Mr. Israeli (Israel): Earlier today (see A/69/PV.52) 
launch  baseless 
we  heard 
accusations  against  Israel.  The  Syrian  Government 
seems  to  think  that  it  can  distract  attention  from  its 
brutal  and  horrific  crimes  committed  against  its  own 
people. Others in the Arab world also seek to distract 
from the fundamental issues in the region by making 
an array of false accusations about Israel. The problem 
with that tactic is that it does not bring us any closer to 
resolving the core challenges facing our region; it only 
drags us further and further away from peace.
Israel  is  not  what  is  wrong  in  the  Middle  East.  It 
has always been and will always be what is right in the 
Middle East.
Ms.  Alsaleh  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I take the floor to exercise my right of reply.
It is ironic to hear the representative of Israel give 
us lessons on human rights in my country and address 
the issue of peace in our region, when just a few weeks 
ago  they  carried  out  their  savage  act  of  aggression 
against Gaza, which in a few days claimed thousands 
of lives among women and children. The blood of the 
victims has not even dried yet.
Everyone  is  aware  of  the  racism  and  barbarity 
shown by the Israeli entity and settlers against the Arab 
inhabitants. We cannot forget the barbaric behaviour by 
a group of Israeli security forces against a Palestinian 
woman  on  the  esplanade  of  the  holy  mosques.  They 
beat her, pulled off her veil and dragged her across the 
site.  That  horrible  scene  clearly  demonstrates  Israel’s 
hatred and resentment of Arabs. Of course, the Western 
media  did  not  cover  the  news  of  the  lynching  of  a 
Palestinian  cab  driver  by  settlers.  He  had  come  from 
Deir Yassin, the village invaded by the Zionist militias 
12/14 
14-63478
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.54
of  the  Haganah  gangs  on  9  April  1948,  during  which 
they killed 257 inhabitants of the village.
The  criticism  and  condemnation  levelled  today 
against  Israel  within  the  context  of  the  agenda  item 
under  consideration  should  be  enough  to  remind  the 
representative of the occupying Power that there is an 
international  will  that  stresses  the  need  to  implement 
the United Nations resolutions on putting an end to the 
Israeli occupation and the return of the occupied land 
to its rightful owners.
Those  who  claim  that  they  are  wedded  to  global 
human rights must act in an exemplary way. We have 
recently shed light on the alliance between Qatar and 
Israel, which has supported and financed the takfirist 
terrorist  groups  since  the  beginning  of  the  crisis  in 
Syria.  There  is  clear  cooperation  between  Israel, 
Qatar  and  the  terrorist  Al-Nusra  Front  in  the  area  of 
separation in the occupied Syrian Golan. Those terrorist 
groups  have  captured  members  of  the  United  Nations 
Disengagement Observer Force, and they subsequently 
released  them  inside  Syria  following  the  payment  of 
a  ransom  by  Qatar  to  the  terrorist  groups.  That  is  a 
ridiculous masquerade that one can easily see through. 
Qatar  has  been  financing  a  terrorist  group  —  the 
Al-Nusra  Front  —  so  that  it  can  continue  to  sow  the 
seeds of terrorism and chaos throughout the occupied 
Syrian  Golan,  threaten  members  of  the  international 
peacekeeping  mission  and  help  Israel  to  continue  its 
occupation of the Syrian Golan.
We  want  to  say:  enough  with  the  hypocrisy  and 
lies. Stop using the suffering of the Syrian people, an 
issue  that  is  completely  fabricated  in  all  international 
forums.  Stop  supporting  armed  terrorist  groups,  for 
then the Syrian people will be able to live in peace and 
harmony.
Mr. Laram (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I take the floor 
in exercise of the right of reply. I would like to address 
the cheap claims made by the representative who took 
the floor just before me. Those accusations voiced by 
the representative of Syria are no different from what 
we  usually  hear  from  that  quarter.  They  represent  an 
attempt  to  qualify  as  terrorist  any  request  aimed  at 
obtaining legitimate rights for the Syrian people. They 
are aimed at preventing us from condemning the crimes 
against  civilians  and  the  grave  violations  of  human 
rights and international law committed by the regime 
and by the groups affiliated with it.
In  Qatar  we  are  especially  aware  of  the  threat  of 
terrorism, terrorist organizations and foreign terrorist 
fighters, both in our region and throughout the world. 
Of course, our interests can in no way be aligned with 
those of any terrorist group, regardless of what it is or 
where it is. That is why we stand up against the position 
of the bloodthirsty Syrian regime against its people. We 
are going to continue to cooperate with the international 
community to combat terrorism and to eradicate it at its 
very  source  in  the  region.  We  were  part  of  the  group 
of countries that supported Security Council resolution 
2178  (2014),  on  combating  terrorism,  and  we  have 
undertaken  a  great  many  measures  to  implement  that 
resolution.
The Syrians are a brotherly people known for their 
religious  and  cultural  pluralism  and  their  rejection 
of  extremism.  However, 
those  people  attempted, 
unfortunately for them, to demand their legitimate basic 
rights and were immediately accused of being terrorists 
and of acting in an extremist manner by the authorities 
and were treated as such. Children in schools, the sick in 
hospitals and people in their homes — all were heavily 
bombarded  by  the  Government  that  was  supposed 
to  protect  them.  The  Government  is  trampling  the 
peoples’s very honour underfoot.
The Syrian regime is not fighting against terrorism. 
Indeed, the regime is one of the primary causes of the 
violence and terrorism in Syria. That is something we 
have repeatedly warned about. The crimes committed 
by  the  regime  against  civilians  are  no  different  from 
the  crimes  carried  out  by  terrorist  groups  in  Syria. 
The  victims  are  the  same  —  civilians  and  civilian 
institutions,  who  are  being  subjected  to  attempts,  for 
political purposes, to terrorize them and to force them 
to flee.
We do not wish to be drawn into a lengthy debate 
triggered  by  the  representative  of  a  regime  that  no 
longer enjoys any legitimacy. For that reason, I will end 
my statement here.
Ms.  Alsaleh  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I would like to start by saying that the Syrian 
people  do  not  accept  and  will  never  accept  that  a 
representative  from  a  country  like  Qatar  might  take 
the floor and speak on its behalf, when Qatar has been 
known to have backed terrorism from the very beginning 
of the crisis in Syria. If Qatar were truly aware of the 
threat  of  terrorism,  we  would  not  be  witnesses  to  the 
hundreds of international reports that have documented 
14-63478
13/14
A/69/PV.54 
17/11/2014
Qatar’s support for armed terrorist groups, not only in 
Syria but in the region as a whole. I refer to the June 
2014  CNN  report  that  showed  the  role  played  by  the 
Qatari  regime  in  that  respect  by  stating,  first  of  all, 
that Qatar is a key ally of the United States of America. 
The report also addressed the support lent to Wahhabi 
groups, including those affiliated with Al-Qaida, such 
as Daesh and the Al-Nusra Front. I can say that without 
even having to refer to the statements made by a great 
many European politicians on the support lent to those 
groups  by  Qatar  and  individuals  with  oil  interests  in 
the region.
Consequently,  if  one  seeks  to  give  us  lessons  on 
human rights, one should act in an exemplary fashion 
oneself.  I  would  like  to  remind  the  representative  of 
Qatar  of  the  brazen,  systematic  violations  of  human 
rights  against  non-Qataris  living  in  his  country,  in 
particular against migrant labourers, men and women. 
The  existence  of  such  violations  is  not  merely  an 
allegation  by  the  Syrian  Government;  those  practices 
are also clearly set forth in reports of the International 
Labour  Organization  and  Amnesty  International. 
Those  two  organizations  have  documented  cases  of 
slavery involving immigrant workers residing in Qatar, 
as well as cases of abuse, violence, rape, bodily injury 
and mental and sexual injury. Those are the conclusions 
of two international organizations, and what happens in 
Qatar takes place within a legal regime that encourages 
such  crimes  and  punishes  the  victim  rather  than  the 
perpetrator.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded the present stage 
of its consideration of agenda item 63.
The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.
14/14 
14-63478
