United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
27th plenary meeting
Friday, 17 October 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Boureima 
(Niger), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda items 62 and 12 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/69/161 
and A/69/163)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/162)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Mr. Maksimychev (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian):  Today  Africa  has  embarked  on  the  road  to 
comprehensive  modernization  and  economic  growth. 
We are pleased to note that many countries of the region 
have  seen  significant  positive  change  in  recent  years. 
The chief credit for that belongs to Africans themselves, 
and Russia welcomes the African community’s efforts 
in that regard.
We  support  coordinated  measures  designed  to 
promote Africa’s sustainable development. We consider 
the  programmes  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) to be of primary importance in 
that regard, and we take an active part in concerted efforts 
to provide NEPAD with comprehensive assistance. We 
have been sending direct aid to Africa for decades. As 
is  well  known,  Russia  has  already  written  off  more 
than $20 billion worth of debt for African States, and 
in  order  to  provide  Africans  with  further  long-term 
debt relief we are taking steps that include agreements 
based  on  a  debt-for-development  scheme.  In  April, 
President Putin approved a new concept for the Russian 
Federation’s  State  policy  relating  to  the  promotion 
of  international  development,  which,  when  put  into 
practice, will help increase our involvement in aid for 
Africa’s  development.  We  are  steadily  expanding  our 
trade and economic cooperation, including on mutually 
beneficial investment projects. Training is an important 
area of our cooperation, and more than 6,000 African 
students  are  enrolled  in  Russian  higher-education 
institutions today. We also consider food security and 
humanitarian  assistance  to  African  countries  very 
important,  and  we  provide  significant  aid  in  the  area 
of health care.
The  rapid  spread  of  the  Ebola  virus  in  Africa 
and  its  dire  consequences  are  increasingly  worrying. 
Guided by the principles of solidarity, humanity and our 
friendship with African States, the Russian Federation 
has  been  actively  involved  in  providing  financial  and 
technical  assistance  to  the  affected  countries  since 
the  first  signs  of  the  epidemic  appeared.  We  already 
have doctors working in Africa, and in addition we are 
planning to send humanitarian aid, equipment, medical 
supplies, medicines and teams of experts to assist the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-57648 (E)
*1457648*
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
United  Nations  programmes  in  Guinea,  Liberia  and 
Sierra Leone. We support the central role that the United 
Nations plays in global efforts to combat disease, and 
we  are  ready  to  participate  further  in  implementing 
international strategies for fighting Ebola in cooperation 
with the Governments of the countries affected, United 
Nations agencies and other partners.
The ability to prevent and resolve conflicts is one of 
the most important conditions for establishing stability 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  We  commend 
the  increasingly  active  response  to  crises  on  the  part 
of Africans themselves, who have a better feel for the 
circumstances and can propose methods for reacting to 
crises that respond to local specifics. We welcome the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  creating  a  peace  and 
security  architecture  for  Africa,  the  central  elements 
of  which  are  the  African  Union’s  Peace  and  Security 
Council,  a  continental  early-warning  system  and  the 
establishment of an African Standby Force.
While we support a timely and effective response 
on the part of the international community to emerging 
threats and challenges to security in Africa, we consider 
any  attempt  to  impose  formulas  for  a  settlement  on 
Africans  unacceptable,  and  any  outside  assistance 
should be provided only at their request and with their 
consent.  We  fully  support  expanding  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union 
and  subregional  entities  in  preventing  and  resolving 
conflicts, and in that regard we note their joint efforts 
in  Darfur  and  Somalia  and  on  the  bilateral  relations 
between the two Sudans. It will be no less important for 
them to develop coordinated action on the situations of 
conflict in South Sudan, the Central African Republic, 
Mali and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
As one of the permanent members of the Security 
to 
Council,  Russia  has  contributed  significantly 
developing  a  strategic  approach  for  the  international 
community  and  practical  measures  for  dealing  with 
peace  and  security  issues  in  Africa.  We  are  ready  to 
expand  practical  cooperation  with  Africans  aimed  at 
strengthening  their  capacity  for  dealing  with  crises, 
including by continuing to train African peacekeepers 
and law-enforcement agents. Our country is a participant 
in  many  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in 
Africa and is one of the leading suppliers of goods and 
services for such operations, particularly in the area of 
civil aviation.
Russia  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  first 
report  on  the  review  assessing  the  progress  being 
made in implementing the commitments of all parties 
to  promoting  Africa’s  development  (A/69/163),  based 
on  our  assumption  that  an  objective  dialogue  that 
is  as  depoliticized  as  possible,  conducted  within  a 
framework  laid  down  by  the  General  Assembly’s 
monitoring  mechanism,  will  help  improve  regional 
stability  and  establishing  conditions  conducive  to 
sustainable economic growth in Africa.
Mr. Balé (Congo) (spoke in French): My delegation 
has a genuine interest in participating in this joint debate 
on  agenda  item  62,  devoted  to  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  its  progress  in 
implementation  and  international  support,  and  to  the 
causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace 
and sustainable development in Africa. I would first like 
to thank the Secretary-General for the substantial and 
rich information in the reports contained in documents 
A/69/161, A/69/162 and А/69/163, submitted to us under 
this agenda item.
The review of activities related to the implementation 
of NEPAD’s work gives us an opportunity to praise the 
efforts of its Executive Director, Mr. Ibrahim Mayaki, 
who, along with his team, has tackled the job of giving 
genuine  visibility  to  NEPAD’s  efforts  to  turn  Africa 
into a future growth centre. And, at the moment when 
today’s  debate  coincides  with  the  closing  of  Africa 
Week, I should not omit to reiterate my congratulations 
to  Under-Secretary-General  Maged  Abdelaziz,  Head 
of the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, and to 
commend his efficiency and dynamism. In that regard, 
my delegation would like to call for the strengthening 
of the United Nations regional coordination monitoring 
mechanism established by resolution 66/293, in order to 
ensure his ability to carry out his functions under the 
best possible conditions.
It is worth recalling that Africa has seen numerous 
initiatives and development programmes that have gone 
nowhere.  In  the  wake  of  such  setbacks,  the  Heads  of 
State and Government of Africa decided to embrace a 
common vision for their continent’s development, taking 
on  the  challenges  of  achieving  regional  integration, 
accelerated  growth,  sustainable  development, 
the 
eradication of poverty and Africa’s integration into the 
globalization  process.  From  that  vision  was  born  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development, in 2001. At 
a time when the international community is preparing 
to adopt a new post-2015 development agenda, it seems 
appropriate  to  attempt  a  fair  evaluation  of  the  work 
of  NEPAD,  the  African  Union  organ  responsible  for 
2/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
implementing  development  policies  and  strategies  for 
the continent.
Africa Week, organized under the auspices of the 
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  has  already 
amply  enlightened  us  on  the  long-term  development 
projection for Africa until 2063. The African Union’s 
Agenda  2063  offers  a  new  path  towards  regional 
integration and an African renaissance — the Africa we 
want. In that regard, my delegation notes with interest 
the  new  international  commitment  to  supporting  the 
effective implementation of our leaders’ vision, which 
the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  will 
make operational.
My  delegation  supports  the  statement  made  this 
morning by the Permanent Representative of Malawi on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.26). 
I will therefore focus my remarks on the activities that 
took place during this important Africa Week and on 
today’s  topic,  NEPAD  and  the  causes  of  conflict  in 
Africa.
to 
the 
implementation  of 
With  respect  to  NEPAD,  I  shalll  confine  my 
remarks  to  the  ownership  of  NEPAD  projects  and 
programmes  by  the  Congo,  which  pays  particular 
attention 
investment 
programmes adopted within the framework of NEPAD 
and the Central African Consensual Transport Master 
Plan,  including  the  integrated  network  of  the  Central 
African  Economic  Monetary  Community.  Certainly, 
difficulties in mobilizing resources constitutes one of 
the  weaknesses  of  and  challenges  to  implementation, 
but  we  also  need  political  resolve  to  ensure  their 
progressive implementation. However, my Government 
maintains  its  ongoing  commitment  to  working  to 
accelerate  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  notably  in 
the priority areas of infrastructure, agriculture and food 
security  with  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development  Programme,  and  human  resources.  The 
implementation of structural projects in Central Africa 
has  translated  the  shared  resolve  of  the  Governments 
of the countries of the subregion to making NEPAD a 
dynamic mechanism for integration and development.
My  delegation  also  wishes 
to  acknowledge 
the  equally  important  progress  made  in  the  area 
of  governance  in  Africa.  We  wish  to  express  our 
legitimate pride in the secretariat of the African Peer 
Review Mechanism, which has helped States to assume 
ownership of the new self-assessment rules for Africa 
for good governance. My country cannot but rejoice in 
its being among the very first States to have conducted 
the self-assessment and evaluation processes launched 
in  2003.  Since  then,  governance  has  progressed  in 
the  Congo,  as  the  recent  Ibrahim  Index  of  African 
Governance  has  demonstrated.  Today,  the  Congo  is 
one of 13 African countries to have made progress in 
all  areas  covered  by  the  annual  study  of  governance 
on  the  continent,  which  ranks  the  Congo  among  the 
best  in  the  class  in  its  ratings  on  security  and  the 
rule  of  law,  participation  and  human  rights,  human 
development  and  sustainable  economic  development. 
As the Assembly is aware, the Ibrahim Index of African 
Governance is published each year by the Mo Ibrahim 
Foundation, which assigns a score to each country by 
studying  95  indicators,  divided  into  14  subcategories, 
collected by 30 independent institutions.
In  their  vision  for  development,  African  leaders 
rightly  subscribe  to  the  African  Common  Position  on 
the post-2015 agenda, peace and security as a pillar of 
sustainable  development,  and  stress  the  inseparable 
nature  of  peace,  security  and  development.  The 
African Common Position advocates fighting the root 
causes of conflicts by eliminating economic and social 
inequality and exclusion. Strengthening inclusive good 
governance,  combating  all  forms  of  discrimination 
and  creating  unity  in  diversity  through  democratic 
practices  and  mechanisms  at  the  local,  national  and 
continental levels are also part of that struggle. Indeed, 
the  causes  of  the  conflicts,  violence  and  insecurity 
found  in  various  parts  of  Africa  can  also  be  called 
poverty, unemployment and endemic disease, as should 
be feared in the case of the Ebola epidemic.
Peace  and  security  remain  a  concern  in  some 
African countries faced with rebellions. The continent 
is  increasingly  facing  new  forms  of  security  threats, 
such  as  narco-terrorism,  the  activities  of  extremist 
groups  such  as  Boko  Haram  in  Nigeria  and  northern 
Cameroon, and maritime piracy, especially in the Gulf 
of  Guinea.  We  call  on  the  international  community 
and 
their 
commitment to fighting these threats. We all agree that 
these  scourges  dangerously  undermine  not  only  the 
economic  development  of  countries  on  the  continent, 
but also the international economy as a whole, and can 
be neutralized only by a firm, common response from 
the international community.
the  countries  concerned 
to  strengthen 
Regarding the crises affecting some parts of Africa, 
we  welcome  the  involvement  of  the  international 
community, particularly the United Nations, alongside 
the African Union, regional economic communities and 
14-57648
3/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
African States in the search for negotiated solutions to 
disputes  and  the  implementation  of  peace  operations. 
The multinational military exercise known as Loango 
2014, which is currently under way in the port city of 
Pointe Noire in the Congo, is being conducted by the 
Central  Africa  Multinational  Force  (FOMAC)  in  the 
context of the African Union’s architecture for peace. 
The operation, organized every two or three years by 
one of the member countries of Economic Community 
of Central African States (ECCAS), seeks to strengthen 
the  capacity  of  FOMAC  to  deploy  peacekeeping  and 
security operations. I thank all partners of ECCAS who 
have accompanied our countries in that endeavour.
It  is  impossible  to  discuss  the  situation  in  the 
Central  African  Republic  without  worrying  about  the 
tragic developments of recent days. I call on our Central 
African  brothers  and  all  those  participating  in  the 
crisis in the Central African Republic to return to the 
dynamic  created  by  the  Forum  for  Political  Dialogue 
and National Reconciliation held in Brazzaville in July, 
which  led  to  the  signing  of  a  ceasefire  agreement.  I 
recall  the  commitment  of  the  international  mediation 
led  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  reiterate 
my  country’s  support  for  the  transition  authorities 
and  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic. 
My  Government  firmly  condemns  any  attack  on 
peacekeepers.
I take this opportunity to reiterate the international 
mediator’s  appeal  of  26  September,  made  at  the 
United  Nations  high-level  event  on 
the  Central 
African  Republic,  to  the  international  community  to 
remain  mobilized  for  Central  Africa  with  the  same 
commitment, because the Central African Republic has 
been completely destroyed and still has a great need for 
international assistance if it is to recover.
As African leaders say, Africa should no longer be 
a symbol of poverty and unrest, but should become an 
integrated, prosperous and stable continent that is truly 
involved  in  the  international  arena  and  whose  people 
live in peace and security. That is the Africa we want.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): Egypt aligns itself with the 
statement delivered by the representative of Malawi on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.26) 
and welcomes the Secretary-General’s three reports on 
African issues under agenda item 62, “New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development: progress in implementation 
and  international  support”.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General and the Office of the Special Adviser 
for  Africa  for  preparing  the  three  reports  and  for  the 
thoughtful conclusions they include.
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  represents  Africa’s  inspiration  to  take  its 
matters  into  its  own  hands.  As  Africa’s  instrument 
aimed  at  reducing  poverty  and  achieving  sustainable 
development,  NEPAD  translates  African  priorities 
into  specific  programmes  and  projects.  It  thereby 
crystallizes Africa’s vision on specific thematic issues: 
agriculture and food security, regional integration and 
infrastructure,  human  development,  and  information 
and communications technology. NEPAD has received 
additional  impetus  as  it  has  become  the  vehicle 
of  the  interpretation  of  the  African  Agenda  2063, 
Africa’s vision for regional integration and an African 
renaissance.  As  a  proud  founding  member,  Egypt 
continues  to  support  the  work  of  NEPAD  in  various 
programmes  and  thematic  activities,  and  calls  for 
increased international support for the implementation 
of the NEPAD programme.
This  year’s  deliberations  on  the  item  coincide 
with  the  negotiations  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda and the sustainable development goals. As the 
deadline of the negotiations approaches, it is important 
to emphasize the need to incorporate African priorities 
into the new agenda. No global development agenda will 
ever succeed if it does not tackle the African priorities 
of  increasing  economic  output,  creating  jobs  and 
eradicating poverty through increased industrialization, 
infrastructure  and  agricultural  development.  African 
development  needs  significant  and  diverse  financial 
resources, technology transfers and capacity-building. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  official  development  assistance 
should continue to constitute the backbone of financing 
for  development.  Furthermore,  Africa  needs 
the 
support of the international community in the recovery 
of  illicitly  transferred  assets.  We  look  forward  to  the 
upcoming third International Conference on Financing 
for Development in July 2015 to help the continent in 
that regard.
The  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  the  past  few  months  is 
yet  another  reminder  of  the  special  needs  of  Africa. 
We welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General, the 
General Assembly and the Security Council to establish 
the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency 
Response in order to curb the spread of the outbreak, 
treat the infected and prevent Ebola from becoming a 
worldwide pandemic. In order to succeed in combating 
4/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
Ebola,  the  international  community  should  mobilize 
resources totalling $1 billion over the next six months. 
Unfortunately, the majority of those pledges are yet to 
be met.
The  Ebola  outbreak  also  highlights  the  need  to 
improve Africa’s health systems and to build resilience 
in  fighting  health  emergencies.  Moreover,  the  global 
efforts to combat Ebola should not amount to placing 
the  affected  countries  under  siege.  We  reiterate  our 
concern  over  the  detrimental  effect  on  the  countries 
concerned  of  the  isolation  caused  by  the  trade  and 
travel  restrictions  imposed  on  them.  Those  measures 
are  not  effective  in  containing  the  epidemic.  They 
create  impediments  to  the  delivery  of  the  required 
assistance to the affected countries, thereby prolonging 
their plight and rendering recovery more difficult.
Efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development  and 
growth are doomed to failure unless coupled with serious 
efforts to create, keep and build peace. In that regard, 
we welcome the report of the Secretary-General on the 
causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace 
and sustainable development in Africa (A/69/162). We 
also highlight Africa’s initiative to achieve a conflict-
free Africa, as outlined in the Organization for African 
Unity/African Union Solemn Declaration of 2013. That 
initiative is complemented by the work of the African 
Peer Review Mechanism, which demonstrates Africa’s 
commitment to enhancing good governance and respect 
for human rights and democratic values.
In  conclusion,  it  is  important  to  emphasize  the 
need to sustain and consolidate the support provided to 
Africa by the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, 
as  the  lead  entity  for  advancing  African  issues  in  the 
United Nations system.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  First,  Nigeria  would  like  to 
associate  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States (see A/69/PV.26).
We welcome this very important debate on the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  We 
also  salute  the  vision  and  sagacity  of  African  leaders 
in  establishing  NEPAD,  which  today  is  the  bona  fide 
agency  for  Africa’s  renaissance.  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  three  significant  reports  on 
the present challenges and future prospects of Africa. 
They  serve  as  the  basis  for  honest,  constructive  and 
critical  discussion,  and  for  building  scenarios  and 
structures  for  the  adoption  of  credible  measures  to 
implement the policies, programmes and activities that 
support  Africa’s  vision  for  sustainable  development, 
peace,  security,  stability  and  progress.  It  is  therefore 
significant  that  today’s  debate  is  taking  place  as  we 
are  discussing  the  contours  of  the  post-2015  global 
development agenda and preparing to take stock of the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
as they approach their deadline.
We  thank  Mr.  Ibrahim  Assane  Mayaki,  Chief 
Executive  Officer  of 
the  NEPAD  Planning  and 
Coordinating  Agency,  for  his  efforts  and  leadership 
of  the  Agency,  and  his  inputs  to  date  towards  its 
regeneration. We also commend Mr. Maged Abdelaziz, 
Special Adviser of the Secretary-General on Africa, for 
his valuable ongoing service to Africa and the United 
Nations  at  large.  We  thank  all  delegations  that  have 
spoken today, expressed solidarity with Africa, showed 
concern for our challenges, and shared the promise and 
opportunities that our continent provides.
We  stand  ready  as  always  to  work  with  Member 
States for the advancement of our region and the entire 
world. In that regard, we welcome the various initiatives 
created within the frameworks of regional cooperation 
with Africa. They include the European Union-Africa 
Summit meetings and their outcomes; the Japan-Africa 
Summit and their technical meetings; the China-Africa 
meetings and the initiatives emanating therefrom; the 
Arab-Africa  Summit  meetings,  the  latest  of  which 
was  held  in  Kuwait  City;  and  many  other  beneficial 
initiatives that give concrete expression to the various 
aspects  of  NEPAD’s  work  and  the  aspirations  of  the 
African Union.
Conflicts  are  the  most  significant  challenges 
facing  our  continent  today.  The  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
(A/69/162) is therefore a fundamental document whose 
diagnosis  and  prescriptions  should  be  given  careful 
consideration. In that regard, Nigeria notes in particular 
the  nexus  established  by  the  report  among  peace, 
security and development. In that connection, Nigeria 
is of the view that efforts at the subregional, regional 
and international levels should be intensified to support 
and advance national efforts at conflict prevention and 
management,  as  prerequisites  for  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development. Reinforcing best practices and 
supporting national programmes aimed at reconciliation, 
development  and  the  building  of  inter-  and  cross-
communal relations are of the highest importance.
14-57648
5/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
Where  conflicts  inevitably  break  out,  regional 
peace and security structures must be able to respond 
in  a  timely  manner  to  forestall  mass  atrocities  and 
systematic  human  rights  abuses,  and 
to  protect 
civilians, vulnerable persons and groups from excesses 
committed  during  war.  As  obligated  under  its  own 
Charter,  the  United  Nations  should  expeditiously 
address any threats to peace and security in Africa, and 
implement all relevant Security Council resolutions in 
order to forestall the outbreak of conflicts and, where 
appropriate,  respond  to  conflicts  in  order  to  prevent 
massive  loss  of  life  and  the  dislocation  of  communal 
activities.
Nigeria has always emphasized regional initiatives 
to address conflicts in Africa. Only recently, the four 
States members of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, 
together  with  the  Republic  of  Benin,  held  a  summit 
level  meeting  in  Niamey,  in  your  own  country, 
Mr.  Vice-President,  to  discuss  the  security  situation 
and  terrorism  in  our  subregion.  The  meeting  was 
followed  on  Monday  of  this  week  by  a  ministerial 
meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence 
of those countries, where resolutions and decisions were 
adopted to establish a multidimensional, multinational 
structure  for  combating  cross-border  and  common 
security challenges.
Africa’s challenges in the area of peace and security 
are  not  restricted  to  conflicts  alone.  Development 
challenges have long had an impact on Africa’s capacity 
and  readiness  to  respond  to  threats  to  peace  and 
security.  Today,  more  than  ever  before,  we  are  faced 
with  the  threat  not  of  a  man-made  disaster,  but  of  a 
natural phenomenon, represented by the Ebola disease 
outbreak  in  West  Africa.  The  world  is  now  reeling 
from the threat posed by this outbreak. The debilitating 
impacts of malaria and other killer diseases have long 
held  back  Africa’s  development  prospects,  especially 
in  the  areas  of  human-resource  capacity  and  labour 
productivity.
The African Union Special Summit on HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  held  in  Abuja  on  15  and 
16 July 2013, adopted a landmark resolution to intensify 
efforts  aimed  at  rolling  back  malaria  and  eradicating 
other  killer  diseases  in  Africa.  It  is  clear  that  the 
present Ebola outbreak has compounded the difficulty 
of  the  situation  in  Africa.  International  efforts  must 
be  intensified  to  address  the  danger  and  overcome 
the  threat  it  poses  to  the  subregion,  the  continent 
and  the  entire  world,  as  the  Ebola  virus  is  spreading 
exponentially. We have no alternative but to face this 
existential threat together and show unity of purpose.
Rather  than  stigmatizing  and  isolating  countries 
and  communities  from  where  the  outbreak  emanated, 
solidarity, compassion and understanding should be our 
watchwords, with speedy and timely support rendered 
to  those  countries.  Nigeria  has  so  far  disbursed 
$3.5 million to the affected countries in West Africa, 
having overcome the importation of the virus into our 
own  country.  We  will  continue  to  show  empathy  and 
solidarity  with  the  affected  countries  in  our  region 
and give them the support they need to meet this grave 
challenge.
In addressing NEPAD priorities and the sustainable 
development  of  Africa,  we  should  highlight 
the 
infrastructure  needs  of  the  continent  and  develop 
strategies for meeting those needs. The African Union 
(AU) and NEPAD have developed blueprints to address 
the  needs  and  adopted  policies  at  the  highest  level  in 
the continent to integrate Africa by rail, land and air, 
as well as by electronic means such as fibre optics and 
undersea cable for telecommunications and the Internet.
The  most  important  infrastructure  gap  in  Africa 
today, according to a World Bank report, is to be found in 
the power sector. It is instructive to note that only 24 per 
cent of Africa’s population is reported to have access 
to a constant electricity supply, while 48 sub-Saharan 
countries,  with  about  800  million  people,  are  said  to 
produce roughly the same level of power as Spain, which 
has  only  45  million  people.  Africa’s  infrastructure 
deficit is naturally being addressed under the ambitious 
Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa.
The adoption of Agenda 2063 by the AU presents a 
landmark opportunity for addressing Africa’s priorities 
on  a  long-term  basis  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure, 
industrialization, 
capital 
development  and  peace  and  security.  We  therefore 
wish  to  highlight  the  need  for  a  global  appreciation 
of  the  conclusions  and  final  outcomes  of  high-level 
meetings of the African Union, NEPAD and the various 
regional economic communities in Africa, towards the 
development of viable partnerships for implementation 
of our continent’s development strategies, in consonance 
with the global partnership envisaged under Millennium 
Development Goal 8, and the relevant provisions of the 
unfolding post-2015 development framework.
agriculture, 
human 
In that regard, we wish to reiterate the importance 
of  the  Common  African  Position  that  was  adopted 
6/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
at  the  highest  political  level  in  Africa  in  order  to 
address  Africa’s  priorities  in  elaborating  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  The  Secretary-General’s 
biennial report on the review of the implementation of 
the commitments made towards Africa’s development 
(A/69/162)  is  therefore  highly  significant  and  of 
extreme relevance. We wish to reiterate our readiness 
to  cooperate  with  NEPAD  and  the  African  Union  to 
intensify  regional  integration  and  achieve  a  common 
market in our continent. We shall strive to encourage 
greater  private-sector  participation  in  that  process, 
whereby 
trading 
companies and others will be able to avail themselves 
of opportunities to expand their reach and scope in all 
African countries, reduce their dependency on external 
factors  and  open  up  African  markets  for  African 
businesses.
indigenous  banks, 
industries, 
Finally, as we were reminded today by Mr. Ibrahim 
Assane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer of the NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency,  NEPAD  and  the 
African Peer Review Mechanism are the dual structures 
on  which  Africa’s  development  are  predicated.  They 
also form the bases for regional integration, peace and 
security and sustainable development. Accordingly, the 
observance of and respect for principles that constitute 
the foundation of good governance — such as human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law,  democratic  governance  based 
on  constitutionality,  and  the  fight  against  corruption 
and  impunity  —  are  indispensable  corollaries  to 
development.  The  Secretary-General’s 
emphases 
on  these  issues  are  very  important.  They  have  also 
been  reflected  in  the  Secretary-General’s  outcome 
documents. Nigeria welcomes these emphases and will 
continue to abide by them.
the  General  Assembly  devoted 
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  important 
meeting  of 
to 
development in Africa, which is taking place at a critical 
time  in  the  preparation  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. My delegation aligns itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Malawi on behalf of the 
Group  of  African  States  (see  A/69/PV.26).  We  would 
also like to express our support and congratulations for 
the outstanding work that has been carried out by the 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa and his tireless 
efforts in favour of the continent’s interests within the 
framework of the United Nations system.
African  States  have  shown  their  commitment  to 
political stability and to peace as engines and catalysts 
for development. The Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) have provided a substantive impetus to African 
States and enabled them to achieve outstanding progress 
in the field of economic and social development. Despite 
the  progress  achieved  to  date,  the  African  continent 
remains  confronted  with  a  great  many  challenges  in 
achieving its objectives.
The efforts of African States have been hampered 
by the multiple economic and financial crises, including 
those linked to the increase in the price of foodstuffs 
and energy, that have struck the entire world in recent 
years, and by deterioration caused by climate change. 
The  recent  Ebola  outbreak  and  its  consequences  for 
the prospects for economic and social development of 
a number of African States clearly shows the extent to 
which it is necessary for the international community 
to  further  mobilize  in  a  timely  manner  to  assist  the 
countries  on  the  continent  to  create  the  conditions 
necessary for their development. Morocco has expressed 
its solidarity with the countries suffering the impacts of 
the pandemic, by continuing, through its airline, Royal 
Air  Maroc,  to  fly  to  those  countries  in  order  to  undo 
their isolation, just as we have made a contribution by 
sending medicines to affected countries.
The  commitments  undertaken  under  MDG  8  on 
the  global  partnership  for  development  have  not  been 
kept  in  their  entirety,  particularly  with  respect  to 
financing for development, technology transfer, access 
to affordable medicines and development commitments 
for the least developed countries, the majority of which 
are in Africa. We emphasize in that context that official 
development assistance, which is an important source 
of development financing, particularly for African least 
developed  countries,  should  be  further  strengthened 
in  the  context  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
The full and rapid implementation of commitments to 
Africa’s development should be a priority in terms of 
accelerating  progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  in  the  African  continent.  In  addition,  Africa’s 
special needs development must be an integral part of 
the post-2015 development programme.
The transformation of African economies through 
industrialization, the improvement of their production 
capacity  and  the  promotion  of  economic  growth  are 
decisive factors for efforts to lift millions of Africans 
out  of  poverty  and  combat  youth  unemployment.  The 
promotion  of  investment,  infrastructure  development, 
improved market access and technology transfer are key 
elements to enable the economic emergence of African 
14-57648
7/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
countries.  We  believe  that  strengthening  the  private 
sector will contribute to the diversification of African 
economies,  improved  value-added  and  the  creation  of 
employment and income opportunities.
We emphasize, moreover, the need for productive 
investment  as  an 
important  source  of  financing 
for  development  and  its  catalytic  role  in  achieving 
development  goals,  in  particular  the  eradication  of 
poverty.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
holding on 17 July of a high-level debate of the General 
Assembly  devoted  to  the  promotion  of  investment  in 
Africa and its role in achieving development goals on 
the continent.
technology 
Climate  change  is  a  major  challenge  for  Africa’s 
development. Global solutions are required to mitigate 
its  effects  and  to  support  adaptation  efforts  through 
adequate  financing  and 
transfer.  The 
green  economy,  which  was  highlighted  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  and 
in  its  outcome  document  (resolution  66/288,  annex), 
could be an important model for achieving sustainable 
development goals and eradicating poverty through job 
creation.  Technology  transfer  is  essential  to  helping 
African  countries  to  achieve  the  necessary  economic 
transformation  and  thus  enable  them  to  promote  the 
green economy and adequately address the three pillars 
of sustainable development.
Morocco has always made South-South cooperation, 
especially with African countries, a cornerstone of its 
foreign policy. Morocco believes that only joint action 
on  the  basis  of  shared  commitments  and  significant 
regional  integration  will  enable  African  countries 
to  overcome  the  challenges  of  development.  It  is  in 
that  spirit  that  Morocco  has  initiated  partnership 
and  cooperation  programmes  with  African  countries 
in  areas  such  as  education,  health,  infrastructure, 
agriculture and vocational training. In addition to the 
cooperation  initiated  by  the  Moroccan  Government, 
private Moroccan companies have also increased their 
investment in the continent.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
Morocco  is  determined  to  engage  in  a  more  dynamic 
and active cooperation at the international and regional 
level for development in Africa.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly for convening this 
joint debate.
Malaysia aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the Permanent Representative of Myanmar on behalf 
of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (see 
A/69/PV.26). I also would like to express our appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive reports 
submitted under agenda item 62.
Malaysia  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
once  again  congratulate  our  African  friends  on  the 
commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the African 
Peer Review Mechanism in 2013 and its achievements 
thus  far.  The  10-year  anniversary  commemoration 
not  only  contributed  to  raising  awareness  among  the 
international  community  and  the  African  diaspora 
on  Africa’s  progress  in  the  area  of  governance,  but 
was  even  more  significant  as  it  coincided  with  the 
fiftieth anniversary of the African Union and the tenth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations 
Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on  Africa,  who  is  tasked  with  global  advocacy  and 
support for Africa’s development, in particular the New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
Malaysia welcomes the progress made by African 
countries  over  the  past  10  years  of  implementation 
of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  an  initiative 
established under NEPAD. It has succeeded in fulfilling 
its  objectives  to  encourage  and  build  transformative 
leadership  and  constructive  national  dialogue  among 
African countries through an inclusive and participatory 
self-assessment  process.  The  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  has  successfully  fostered  policies  and 
practices that would lead to the attainment of the NEPAD 
objectives of political stability, high economic growth, 
sustainable  development  and  accelerated  subregional 
and  continental  economic  integration.  Though  it  is 
voluntary in nature, the increasing number of countries 
participating  in  the  process  shows  the  importance 
that  African  countries  attach  to  strengthening  their 
institutions  of  governance.  Malaysia  hopes  that  more 
African  countries  will  participate  in  the  process  in 
the  future,  thus  further  enhancing  the  development 
of  Africa  as  a  whole.  We  hope  all  these  consolidated 
efforts will assist our African friends in achieving their 
goals.
Malaysia attaches great importance to its relations 
and  cooperation  with  Africa,  especially  in  the  areas 
of  peace  and  security,  trade,  investment  and  the 
holistic  development  of  the  region.  We  truly  believe 
that  through  South-South  cooperation,  solidarity  and 
8/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
mutual  respect,  relations  between  Malaysia  and  the 
countries of Africa have been enhanced.
award, as it is an acknowledgement of Malaysia’s efforts 
in supporting the Millennium Development Goals.
As we can see, the growing trend of foreign direct 
investment  flows  from  countries  of  the  global  South 
to  the  African  continent  has  provided  a  foundation 
for  greater  cooperation  in  the  future.  That  was  made 
evident in the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development report on the rise of Brazil, Russia, India, 
China  and  South  Africa  and  Africa  of  March  2013, 
which states that Malaysia is the biggest Asian source 
of  foreign  direct  investment  to  Africa.  Malaysia  was 
the  third-biggest  investor  in  Africa  in  2011,  after  the 
United States and France, with a total of $19.3 billion 
of  investment  in  the  continent.  Investment  from  the 
Malaysian private sector has led to the creation of more 
decent jobs and transfer of knowledge and technology 
and has assisted in projecting the image of Africa as a 
vibrant investment destination in the world.
While we welcome the progress made by many of 
the African countries, Malaysia also acknowledges the 
challenges and difficulties faced by African countries 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015.  In  that  regard,  Malaysia  wishes  to  reaffirm 
our  support  and  continue  to  be  an  active  dialogue 
partner  with  Africa,  under  the  framework  of  South-
South  cooperation.  Malaysia  cooperates  with  African 
countries  through  specific  technical  courses  under 
the Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme and 
through  triangular  cooperation  initiatives,  such  as 
the  joint  initiative  between  the  Malaysian  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme, 
International 
Cooperation  Agency  and  Africa.  Malaysia  has  also 
entered  into  specific  cooperation  programmes  with 
African  countries  through  dialogue  platforms  such  as 
the  private-sector  involvement  through  the  Malaysian 
South-South  Association  and  Malaysian  South-South 
cooperation.
the  Japan 
In conjunction with the sixty-eighth United Nations 
Day celebration held in Kuala Lumpur in October 2013, 
the  Malaysian  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
received  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  award 
for global partnership for development, in recognition 
of  its  outstanding  contribution  to  the  United  Nations 
development goal. Malaysia is proud to be the recipient 
of the United Nations award in 2013 for its contributions 
towards  Millennium  Development  Goal  8,  “Develop 
a  global  partnership  for  development”.  We  thank  the 
developing countries that nominated Malaysia for this 
Malaysia  also  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  commitment 
to hosting the next Smart Partnership Dialogue through 
the  Langkawi  International  Dialogue  (LID),  at  a  date 
to be announced in due course. Malaysia believes that 
the  Smart  Partnership  Dialogue  is  a  good  platform 
for  Malaysia  in  its  continuing  engagement  with  other 
African  countries  outside  the  bilateral  engagements. 
Malaysia’s presence during the Dialogue in Africa and 
our  commitment  to  hosting  the  LID  demonstrate  our 
continuing support for Africa’s economic development. 
Through hosting LIDs, Malaysia remains committed to 
promoting South-South cooperation in Africa.
Malaysia  has,  since  1995,  organized  the  LID. 
The  Dialogue  has  been  successful  in  forging  smart 
partnerships  between  the  Governments  and  private 
sectors  in  the  South.  Since  its  inception,  a  total  of 
nine such dialogues have been held, aimed at fostering 
smart  partnerships  at  all  levels  in  society,  engaging 
the political leadership, civil service, business, labour, 
civil societies, media and the population at large. The 
success of the LID has prompted African countries to 
organize a similar dialogue in southern Africa, namely, 
the Southern Africa International Dialogue.
Malaysia  would  also  like  to  express  our  deep 
concern with regard to the Ebola outbreak in the African 
region. Malaysia has mobilized resources to ensure an 
adequate humanitarian response on the ground in order 
to combat the outbreak effectively. With regard to that 
effort, on 15 September the Malaysian Prime Minister 
handed  over  the  consignment  of  20.9  million  medical 
rubber gloves in 11 containers to be distributed to the 
affected  countries.  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea 
will each receive three containers of the medical gloves, 
with each container carrying 1.9 million medical gloves. 
Meanwhile, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Nigeria  will  receive  one  container  each,  respectively. 
Malaysia sincerely hopes that this modest contribution 
will help prevent the spread of Ebola and save lives.
To  conclude,  Malaysia  hopes  that  more  countries 
will  participate  in  Africa’s  future  economy  activity, 
thereby  further  enhancing  the  development  of  Africa 
as a whole.
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  scheduling  of  this 
important meeting and I would especially like to thank 
14-57648
9/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  invaluable 
reports.
As  we  are  at  the  crossroads  of  defining  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  it  is  important  to  have 
a  comprehensive  discussion  on  how  to  achieve  and 
finance  Africa’s  sustainable  development.  Bearing  in 
mind that there is a direct link between peace, security 
and  development,  addressing  the  conflicts  on  the 
continent of Africa will also best serve the development 
efforts in the region. Turkey, in line with that approach 
and as a strategic partner of the African Union (AU), 
supports  all  initiatives  for  the  prevention  of  conflicts 
and to bring peace to the whole continent.
Mediation  can  be  the  most  effective  tool  in  the 
prevention  or  management  of  conflicts.  The  third 
Istanbul  Conference  on  Mediation,  held  in  Istanbul 
on  26  June,  addressed  the  theme  of  increasing  the 
role  of  regional  organizations  in  mediation.  In  fact, 
the  AU  and  African  subregional  organizations  have 
demonstrated their will and exerted great peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding efforts in addressing many conflicts. 
The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, of which 
Turkey is co-Chair with Spain, is also an initiative that 
can  be  a  catalyst  for  the  much-needed  dialogue  and 
interaction between different cultures and civilizations.
As  two  thirds  of  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs) are in Africa, supporting LDCs and promoting 
investment  in  those  countries  will  also  contribute  to 
enhancing Africa’s development. Timely and effective 
implementation of and sustained international support 
for the Istanbul Programme of Action for LDCs are of 
crucial  importance  in  that  sense.  Turkey  is  currently 
preparing itself for the review conference of the Istanbul 
Programme of Action, again in Istanbul.
Turkey  supports  African  solutions  to  African 
problems.  Ownership  and 
leadership  of  African 
countries and the AU are essential for ensuring peace, 
security and sustainable development in the continent. 
Turkey  has  become  a  strategic  partner  of  the  AU  in 
2008.  We  now  have  35  embassies  in  various  African 
countries. That number will reach 39 by the end of the 
year. The number of embassies of African countries in 
Ankara recently reached 30. That represents a threefold 
increase  in  the  past  four  or  five  years.  We  now  look 
forward  to  the  second  Turkey-Africa  Partnership 
Summit  to  be  held  in  Equatorial  Guinea  from  19  to 
21 November, which will convene under the theme “A 
new  partnership  model 
for  African  sustainable 
development and the consolidation of integration”.
Turkey  will  assume  the  presidency  of  the  Group 
of  20  on  1  December.  Turkey  will  work  for  a  more 
representative,  fair  and  democratic  global  economic 
system  that  favours  all.  Development,  including  for 
Africa, will be a priority for our presidency. Turkey will 
also be in close contact with all our partners, including 
Africa, in the period leading up to the first-ever world 
humanitarian summit, to be held in 2016 in Istanbul.
We are deeply concerned about the ongoing crisis 
caused  by  the  outbreak  of  the  Ebola  virus  in  West 
African  countries  and  regret  the  loss  of  over  4,000 
lives. As it is spreading at an exponential rate, the Ebola 
challenge, with its social and economic consequences, 
has  already  become  a  humanitarian  crisis  affecting 
regional and global security. This global humanitarian 
tragedy  has  now  become  a  global  challenge  that  can 
be  banished  only  through  international  cooperation 
and solidarity. We are ready to provide full support to 
the work of Special Envoy Mr. David Nabarro and to 
cooperate with all relevant agencies and actors through 
the United Nations coordination system created by the 
Secretary-General.
in-kind  assistance 
Turkey has immediately reacted to this emergency 
financial 
and  will  shortly  announce  additional 
assistance.  Our  national  agencies  are  also  planning 
further 
the  countries  most 
affected,  namely,  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea. 
We  are  now  planning  to  scale  up  our  support  with 
additional  available  means  as  quickly  as  possible  and 
by  using  multilateral  channels,  including  the  United 
Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response,  the 
World Health Organization and the African Union.
to 
Turkey’s engagement and partnership with Africa 
is based on its own merits and therefore will continue 
unabated in the future.
Mr. Kirbet (Ethiopia): At the outset, my delegation 
would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Malawi on behalf of 
the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.26).
My delegation wishes to extend its appreciation to 
the  United  Nations  for  dedicating  9  to  17  October  as 
the  2014  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  Week,  and  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
reports  on  these  two  important  agenda  items  and  for 
his consistent commitment and support to Africa’s top 
agenda issues of malaria and NEPAD to receive serious 
attention and consideration in the context of multilateral 
systems, such as the United Nations.
10/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  introductory 
statement  by  Mr.  Ibrahim  Mayaki,  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordination 
Agency,  which  highlighted  the  progress  made  in 
implementing  NEPAD  development  projects, 
the 
challenges  faced  in  the  process  and  steps  to  be  taken 
in the coming years. Let me in this connection extend 
our  appreciation  to  the  Under-Secretary-General  and 
Special  Adviser  of  the  Secretary-General  on  Africa, 
Ambassador Maged Abdulaziz, and his Office for their 
continued  support  of  NEPAD’s  efforts  to  realize  its 
ongoing  development  projects  together  with  other  the 
United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and  agencies,  and 
the African Union Commission.
Since its inception, NEPAD has been entrusted with 
the mission of supporting the African Union to realize 
the economic integration of our continent. As noted in 
the report, the African Union has launched a continent-
wide  economic  transformation  initiative,  primarily 
based  on  the  industrialization  and  modernization  of 
agriculture.  This  initiative  was  extensively  debated 
by  the  economics  and  finance  Ministers  of  Africa 
together  with  the  Governors  of  Central  Banks  during 
the  seventh  Meeting  of  the  Ministers,  held  in  April 
in Abuja, Nigeria. The outcome of that debate will be 
translated  into  action,  principally  through  planning 
and  implementation  schemes  steered  by  the  NEPAD 
Agency. NEPAD, together with the regional economic 
communities, the African Union Commission and the 
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, will 
be  at  the  centre  of  organizing  actions  and  necessary 
resources  for  the  desired  transformation  of  African 
economies  in  the  short  term  and  the  far-reaching 
Agenda 2063 of the Union in the long term.
Ethiopia  acknowledges  the  support  provided  our 
partners  for  projects  in  Member  States  identified 
as  priority  areas  by  NEPAD  and  subject  to  local 
implementation.  With  respect  to  agriculture  and  food 
security, the Union has rededicated itself to eliminating 
hunger, reducing poverty and enhancing food security 
through 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development  Programme.  This  has  also  been  closely 
linked 
resource 
management.  These  initiatives  and  programmes  need 
local  participation  and  are  progressing  in  the  right 
direction,  though  not  satisfactorily,  as  the  resources 
mobilized  by  NEPAD  are  not  yet  adequate  to  close 
the gaps. In this regard, the efforts of NEPAD and the 
support  of  its  partners,  including  the  United  Nations 
to  climate  change  and  natural 
and  its  agencies,  to  mobilize  the  required  resources 
need to be accorded the attention they deserve.
fully 
in 
for 
It 
is  evident 
that  economic 
through 
Infrastructure  Development 
integration  and 
realized  or 
industrialization  will  not  be 
become  sustainable 
the  absence  of  adequate 
infrastructure.  Accordingly,  Africa  has  set  ambitious 
infrastructure-development  projects 
the 
Programme 
in 
Africa. We recognize that each African country must 
assume  responsibility  for  implementing  the  NEPAD 
programmes  for  infrastructure  development,  without 
which it will be difficult to integrate our economies by 
removing border-post restrictions. Obviously, Africa is 
unable  alone  to  implement  either  the  51  projects  and 
programmes,  or  the  16  national  and  regional  priority 
infrastructure projects, which were identified as quick 
wins for financing, as clearly indicated in the report.
It  should  also  be  recalled  that  the  Heads  of  State 
and Government Orientation Committee has, on several 
occasions,  stressed  the  need  for  partnership  between 
the  Union  and  international  financial  institutions  for 
the  successful  implementation  of  mega-projects,  a 
sentiment also endorsed by the Assembly. In this regard, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  African  50  initiative  of 
the  African  Development  Bank  to  support  the  efforts 
of Africa to achieve inclusive growth and sustainable 
development.
countries 
We in Africa, including my country, Ethiopia, are 
working  hard  to  mobilize  domestic  resources  for  the 
purpose  of  implementing  our  development  projects 
with  cross-border  benefits.  Such  efforts  should 
therefore,  in  our  view,  be  reinforced  by  development 
partners  —  donor 
and  multilateral 
organizations alike — because the needs are tremendous 
while  the  resources  are  far  short  of  what  is  required. 
We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  surpluses  are  available 
in  the  global  economy,  in  particular  in  the  developed 
world, and opportunities should therefore not be missed 
to support Africa’s development programmes identified 
by  NEPAD.  We  hope  that  partners  will  renew  their 
commitments  in  the  light  of  the  financial  challenges 
Africa  is  facing  today,  so  that  the  recommendations 
contained in the report will be implemented.
We are all well aware that malaria-control efforts 
have  attracted  considerable  political  attention  and 
financial  support  at  the  international,  regional  and 
country levels. We all recall that, in September 2008, 
we  warmly  welcomed  the  official  launch  of  the  Roll 
14-57648
11/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
Back Malaria Partnership, which we in Ethiopia believe 
helped to accelerate our progress towards achieving the 
Partnership’s 2010-2015 targets for malaria control and 
elimination.  Ethiopia,  as  part  of  sub-Saharan  Africa, 
has  made  considerable  progress  in  reducing  malaria, 
which is the main cause of morbidity and mortality.
We  are  one  of  the  first  countries  to  embrace  the 
scaling-up  impact  concept  for  malaria  control.  The 
2006-2010  National  Strategic  Plan,  aimed  to  rapidly 
scale  up  malaria-control  interventions  to  achieve  a 
50  per  cent  reduction  in  the  malaria  burden,  in  line 
with  Roll  Back  Malaria  objectives,  has  been  a  great 
success. Significant and sufficient amounts of effective 
anti-malaria drugs and diagnostics have been distributed 
to all malaria-affected areas in the country. More than 
57 million nets have been distributed since 2005, and 
households targeted for indoor residual spraying have 
increased from 20 per cent in 2005 to over 80 per cent in 
2013. These scale-up efforts have been aggressively and 
successfully implemented through a focused approach 
and intensified cooperation among stakeholders.
According  to  a  survey  conducted  by  the  World 
Health Organization in areas located below 2,000 metres 
altitude,  significant  reductions  have  been  recorded 
in  malaria  cases,  admissions  and  deaths.  In  all  ages, 
confirmed  malaria  cases  in  2011  declined  by  66  per 
cent  in  children  under  5,  and  malaria  admissions  and 
death fell by 81 per cent and 73 per cent, respectively. 
Monthly  trends  of  malaria  indicators  were  lower  and 
less  variable  following 
intervention.  Malaria 
epidemics  have  gone  down  year  on  year,  attaining  a 
level with no epidemics recorded at the national level.
the 
in 
Furthermore, 
the  health  sector,  we  have 
formulated and implemented a number of polices and 
strategies.  These  include  strategies  on  free  services 
for  key  health  interventions  and  the  training  and 
deployment  of  over  38,000  health  extension  workers 
for  the  institutionalization  of  community  health  care 
services that involve diagnosis and treatment of malaria 
at  the  health-post  level.  These  health-care-delivery 
systems also increased the number of health facilities 
,from 4,000 in 2001 to 18,000.
As a way forward, Ethiopia has recently developed 
a  new  malaria  control  and  elimination  strategic  plan 
for the period 2014-2020 in the context of the National 
Health  Sector  Development  Plan.  The  plan,  with  all 
its  financial  gaps  and  technical  requirements,  has 
been  communicated  to  the  Global  Fund  and  other 
partners.  Ethiopia  is  looking  forward  to  the  support 
of  the  international  community  in  terms  of  technical 
and financial inputs alike to implement this important 
national strategy, which will undoubtedly help intensify 
our  efforts  to  achieve  the  partnership’s  2010-2015 
targets for malaria control and elimination.
Ms.  Byaje  (Rwanda):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa,  the  Resource  Mobilization  Directorate  of 
the  African  Union  (AU)  and  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  for  their  efforts  to 
ensure  the  success  of  NEPAD’s  Africa  Week.  We  are 
particularly  grateful  for  all  the  reports  giving  us  an 
overview of Africa’s progress.
Rwanda  endorses  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group (see A/69/PV.26).
As  we  celebrate  the  outcomes  of  the  2012  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
I  would  like  to  join  others  in  congratulating  the 
President on his choice of the theme that will drive our 
development agenda for the next 15 years, “Delivering on 
and implementing a transformative post-2015 agenda”. 
It  builds  on  the  immense  gains  we  have  achieved  in 
tackling the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
despite  the  fact  that  some  of  our  countries  will  not 
meet their targets by the due date. We remain confident 
that the new agenda will give us the impetus to carry 
on  with  renewed  hope,  since,  if  we  take  into  account 
the sustained growth that has recently been registered 
across Africa, the future looks promising.
Today  we  all  concur  that  Africa  is  a  land  of 
opportunity and that it is on the rise. We have reason to 
believe in ourselves, since Africa is often cited as the 
fastest-growing region and home to the fastest-growing 
economies. We have a lot to celebrate, for we have come 
a long way. We can now heave a sigh of relief and agree 
that the worst is behind us. With the freedom granted 
us  to  shape  our  own  destiny,  we  are  better  equipped 
to  work  on  making  a  decent  future  for  our  people. 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  African 
Union highly on the consultative exercise we have been 
afforded through the shaping of the Common African 
Position.  The  continent  has  been  given  a  valuable 
opportunity  to  establish  its  own  development  agenda 
and, as a continent, to identify its priorities and how to 
achieve them to the benefit of its people. It is therefore 
time for all Africans to rise as one in order to seize the 
momentum and continue to strive together to establish 
a unified agenda.
12/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  substance  of 
NEPAD’s  agenda  is  that  Africa’s  strengths  lie  in  its 
people, who are its chief asset and investment. Through 
a human-centred approach and guided by the Common 
African Position, Africa will undoubtedly rise to tackle 
poverty in all its forms. In our global quest to eradicate 
poverty,  every  nation  will  strive  to  reduce  inequality 
by ensuring that no one is left behind. That effort takes 
on deeper meaning in the wake of the new challenges 
that  Africa  is  facing  and  that  call  for  unified  action 
to ensure that our gains are not reversed — emerging 
threats such as the outbreak of Ebola, food shortages, 
climate  change  and  terrorism.  Driven  both  by  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063 and the Common African 
Position,  the  continent  is  ready  to  take  off  on  a  new 
path, reinvigorated by the lessons of the past.
shaped 
that  understanding. 
The priorities set by NEPAD’s agenda in the areas 
of  health,  education  and  gender  mainstreaming  are 
being  implemented  in  every  corner  of  the  continent. 
In  addition,  Africa  has  understood  that  agriculture 
must  play  a  pivotal  role  in  its  development,  and  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  has 
In 
order  to  ensure  its  food  security,  Africa  should  also 
follow  the  guidelines  of  the  Maputo  Declaration  and 
allocate  a  major  portion  of  its  national  budgets  to 
agriculture.  Accelerating  infrastructure  development 
will  be  another  key  enabler.  When  we  consider  all 
the 
infrastructure  development  projects  aimed  at 
unleashing  the  continent’s  potential  for  growth  that 
are mushrooming at the national and regional levels, in 
areas such as transport, water, energy and information 
and  communications  technologies,  we  can  see  that 
Africa is indeed on the move.
Other  prerequisites 
include  ensuring  gender 
equality  and  empowering  women  and  young  people, 
both  of  which  help  to  catalyse  action  by  driving  and 
generating  productivity.  Because  they  help  to  ensure 
inclusive growth, the participation and mainstreaming 
of women and young people into national development 
policies  are  vital  if  we  are  to  achieve  real  social  and 
economic gains. And if we are to ensure a sustainable 
future,  we  should  emphasize 
importance  of 
changing  our  mindset  where  our  habits  of  production 
and  consumption  are  concerned,  in  order  to  preserve 
our  planet.  Protecting  and  managing  the  environment 
should  be  daily  concerns  in  all  our  deeds.  Moreover, 
sustainable gains can be made only when nations take 
ownership  of  shaping  their  destinies,  taking  national 
the 
identity  into  account.  More  importantly,  achieving 
good  and  inclusive  governance  as  a  core  element  of 
sustainable  development  is  also  essential  to  meeting 
people’s expectations.
A  discussion  of  peacebuilding  is  relevant  to  our 
consideration of the post-2015 agenda, given the many 
intra-State conflicts that are currently raging in Africa, 
as well as those conflicts’ changing nature, acquiring 
as they have a new dimension in the wake of the global 
financial crisis, whereby everyone is focused on getting 
the lion’s share of economic benefits at others’ expense. 
With the heavy toll such conflicts take on civilians, it 
is vital that we focus collectively on how to go beyond 
managing  conflicts  and  instead  invest  in  preventing 
them. I should emphasize in that regard the leading role 
of the African Union in recognizing that national and 
regional  actors  are  key  to  addressing  the  underlying 
causes of conflict. In that respect, it is imperative that 
each  State  develop  its  own  strategy  for  addressing 
challenges  affecting  its  people’s  well-being.  Regional 
involvement 
in  formulating  policy  and  capacity-
building  is  essential  to  addressing  the  root  causes  of 
conflicts  if  we  are  to  guarantee  peace  and  security. 
And  lastly,  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  also  has  a  role  to  play  in  preventing  and 
ending conflicts.
implementation.  In  order 
In  closing,  I  should  point  out  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  cannot  be  achieved  without 
adequate  means  of 
to 
consolidate  gains  and  meet  external  shocks  with 
resilience, all countries must work together to achieve 
enhanced international cooperation based on a renewed 
global  partnership 
sustainable  development. 
We  should  therefore  strengthen  the  entire  enabling 
environment and global governance needed to promote 
financing  for  sustainable  development.  Encouraging 
public-private  platforms  and  mobilizing  domestic 
funds will also be essential if we are to meet the cost 
of  sustainable  development.  In  particular,  Africa’s 
development  partners  should  contribute  to  Africa’s 
transformation by honouring all their commitments.
for 
Finally,  the  real  transformation  lies  in  the  hands 
of each nation and its efforts to create an atmosphere 
conducive to attracting private investment. To conclude, 
I would like to reiterate Rwanda’s commitment to the 
collective efforts to drive Africa to its greatest heights.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with General Assembly resolution 49/2, of 
14-57648
13/15
A/69/PV.27 
17/10/2014
19 October 1994, I now give the floor to the observer 
of  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Lobry-Boulanger  (International  Federation 
of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  Today’s 
debate  on  agenda  item  12,  concerning  malaria,  is  an 
opportunity both to evaluate the progress made in the 
fight  against  malaria  and,  for  the  second  time  at  this 
session, to underline the critical importance of strong 
and  efficient  health  infrastructures  as  a  key  element 
of  public  health  care  that  is  crucial  to  adequately 
address  the  main  health  threats  of  our  time,  be  they 
non-communicable diseases, Ebola or malaria.
With 
the  2015  deadline  for 
(MDGs) 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
just  months  away, 
we  can  assert  that  malaria  control  and  prevention 
have  contributed  and  continue  to  contribute  to  the 
achievement  of  most  MDGs,  particularly  MDGs  4,  5 
and  6.  The  decrease  in  malaria  deaths,  for  instance, 
markedly contributed to the MDG 4 target of reducing 
the under-5 mortality rate by two thirds between 1990 
and  2015.  Likewise,  easy-to-implement  interventions, 
such  as 
treatment  during 
pregnancy  or  insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets,  have 
greatly influenced the improvement of maternal health 
by reducing the rates of severe maternal anaemia, low 
birth  weights,  miscarriages  and  stillbirths.  Moreover, 
the 
(WHO) 
malaria  report  (A/68/854)  attests  to  the  very  positive 
accomplishments in MDG 6:
recent  World  Health  Organization 
intermittent  preventive 
“Between 2000 and 2012, a substantial scale-up 
of malaria interventions led to a 42 per cent decline 
in  malaria  mortality  rates  globally,  saving  an 
estimated 3.3 million lives... Global case incidence 
has  been  reduced  by  25  per  cent  globally  and  by 
31 per cent in Africa” (A/68/854, para. 7).
Today, the disease is concentrated in 17 countries 
where about 80 per cent of the world’s malaria deaths 
occur  and 
that  are  challenged  by  hard-to-reach 
communities,  weak  health  infrastructures  or  both. 
Only  two  African  countries  account  for  about  40  per 
cent  of  malaria  mortality  worldwide.  Nonetheless, 
we  have  made  progress.  However,  recent  success  in 
prevention and control is fragile, and can be maintained 
only with sufficient financial and political commitment 
and  stronger  national  policies,  operational  plans  and 
research.
Echoing  the  recently  adopted  resolution  68/308 
the  International  Federation  of  Red 
on  malaria, 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  encourages 
malaria-endemic  countries  to  consider  adopting  and 
implementing  the  Multisectoral  Action  Framework 
for  Malaria,  adopted  and  developed  by  the  Roll 
Back  Malaria  Partnership  and  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme. We also encourage regional 
and intersectoral collaboration, both public and private, 
at all levels, especially in education, health, economic 
development,  data  collection  and  the  environment,  to 
advance malaria-control objectives.
We repeat our call for international efforts to scale 
up investments in research and development initiatives 
to stay ahead of the mosquito and the parasite. Malaria-
endemic  countries,  development  partners  and  the 
international community must also support the timely 
replacement  of  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets, 
in accordance with the WHO recommendations of the 
service lives of such nets, in order to prevent the risk 
of malaria resurgence and a reversal of the gains made 
to  date,  such  as  in  the  Greater  Mekong  subregion  of 
South-East Asia.
The  IFRC  welcomes  the  strong  and  ambitious 
goals  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Open  Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals (A/68/970), 
particularly its strong goal on health. We welcome the 
zero-goal approach for malaria and want to emphasize 
the  importance  of  solid  health  infrastructures  in 
addressing national and regional health needs. Current 
health crises have taught us that one must address not 
only  the  effects  of  a  health  emergency,  but  also  the 
underlying structural capacity of local systems — their 
ability  to  access  affordable  essential  medicines  and 
vaccines  and  to  finance,  recruit,  develop,  train  and 
keep a strong health-care workforce. Only with proper 
early-warning and response capacity will States be able 
to manage national and global health risks such as the 
current devastating Ebola outbreak.
The  IFRC’s  fight  against  malaria  is  focused 
on  social  mobilization,  communication  aimed  at 
changing  behaviour,  and  distribution  and  assistance 
to  households  with  long-lasting  insecticidal  nets.  It 
also  supports  the  ministries  of  health  of  individual 
countries, such as Kenya, where the Kenya Red Cross 
Society  is  a  key  partner  of  the  country’s  Ministry  of 
Health,  implementing  malaria  prevention  and  control 
interventions  in  over  100  difficult-to-access  villages 
in the western, coastal and Rift Valley regions with its 
strategy of home-based management of malaria.
The IFRC believes that programmes that empower 
communities  to  respond  comprehensively  to  malaria 
14/15 
14-57648
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.27
are  part  of  the  winning  formula  to  beat  the  disease, 
to  reach  those  last-mile  populations,  and  to  make  the 
aspirational  goal  of  ending  malaria  by  2030  a  reality. 
When  community-based  volunteers  are  equipped  and 
empowered  to  provide  knowledge,  prevention  and 
treatment options, local people become first responders 
to combat that ancient scourge.
The  IFRC  believes  that,  together  with  mobile 
technology,  social  media  can  also  be  a  valuable  ally 
when  it  comes  to  reaching  communities  with  health 
messages.  In  Asia,  for  instance,  social  media  are 
fundamentally changing how the region communicates. 
A  number  of  Asian  national  societies  —  such  as  the 
Red  Cross  Societies  of  Cambodia,  Laos  and  Viet 
Nam — have made significant advances in harnessing 
the power of social media and are now using mobile and 
web-based  technologies  to  improve  communications, 
interactions and malaria-prevention activities with the 
communities they serve.
In  conclusion,  the  IFRC  stresses  the  need  for 
stronger  partnerships  and  sustainable  funding 
to 
carry the success forward; stronger and more efficient 
health  infrastructures;  national  and  regional  policies, 
empowering  communities  with  the  knowledge  and 
materials  needed  to  prevent  and  treat  the  disease; 
greater 
in 
community-based solutions and actions; and investment 
in  operational  research  that  allows  for  data-driven, 
efficient,  and  cost-effective  malaria  programmes  on 
the ground.
recognition,  support  and 
investment 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  62  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 12.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
14-57648
15/15
