United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
33rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 30 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Michael 
Chilufya Sata, President of the Republic of Zambia
The  President:  Before  we  proceed  to  the  items 
on our agenda, it is my sad duty to pay tribute to the 
memory of the late President of the Republic of Zambia, 
His Excellency Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata, who passed 
away on Tuesday, 28 October 2014.
On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  request  the 
representative  of  Zambia  to  convey  our  condolences 
to  the  Government  and  people  of  Zambia  and  to 
the  bereaved  family  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael 
Chilufya Sata.
I invite representatives to rise and observe a minute 
of silence in tribute to the memory of President Sata.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
The President: It was with deep personal sadness 
that  I  learned  of  President  Sata’s  passing  this  week. 
Over  the  years,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  working  with 
President Sata on many issues of mutual importance to 
our two countries. He was a remarkable man of peace, 
whose efforts impacted not only the people of Zambia 
and the African continent but indeed the entire world. 
The President’s work ethic and his tireless devotion to 
the Zambian people will long be remembered, as will 
his legendary journey to the highest political office in 
Zambia.
President  Sata  was  one  of  a  kind,  and  he  will  be 
greatly missed. May his soul rest in eternal peace.
I now give the floor to the representative of Zambia.
Ms.  Kasese-Bota  (Zambia):  I  stand  before  the 
General Assembly representing a nation in mourning. 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Zambia,  passed  away  on  the  night 
of Tuesday, 28 October 2014 in London, where he had 
gone for medical attention. His death comes only four 
days after the nation was awash with joy in celebrating 
its Golden Jubilee, marking 50 years of independence.
Born in 1937 in Mpika district in northern Zambia, 
the  late  President  Sata  was  the  fifth  President  of  the 
Republic. He came into office in September 2011 after 
winning  the  presidential  elections  and  unseating  the 
Movement for Multi-Party Democracy, which had ruled 
Zambia for 20 years.
President  Sata  was  a  prominent  figure  in  the 
political history of Zambia. Before joining politics, he 
worked in various capacities, including the Police Force, 
London Transport, later as a business practitioner and 
eventually easing naturally into the political sphere.
The  late  President’s  political  career  began  from 
the lower ranks of ward councillor, gradually rising to 
political eminence through his election as President of 
the Republic in 2011.
The  Assembly  may  recall  that  in  1991  President 
Sata  was  one  of  the  prominent  voices  who  left  the 
Government  to  join  the  call  for  the  reintroduction  of 
multiparty  democracy.  During  that  historic  national 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59630 (E)
*1459630*
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
re-awakening,  his  political  acumen  was  key 
in 
influencing  the  national  drive  for  political  freedom 
and the restoration of other democratic rights. He held 
various  portfolios  thereafter,  including  Minister  for 
Health,  Minister  for  Local  Government,  Minister  for 
Labour and District Governor for Lusaka, among others. 
He  was  Minister  without  Portfolio,  his  last  position 
before forming the Patriotic Front, after which he was 
National Secretary of the ruling party. That made him 
the third most senior politician in the hierarchy of the 
late President Fredrick J.T. Chiluba’s Administration.
Owing to his unique qualities, he was assigned some 
of  the  most  challenging  portfolios.  Rather  than  deter 
him,  that  pushed  him  to  achieve  astounding  success, 
which further enhanced his political standing. The late 
President  Sata  believed  in  improving  the  welfare  of 
all Zambians, especially women and children, and his 
national appeal grew with time. He was a grass-roots 
politician in the true sense of the word. His contribution 
to  Zambia’s  continued  peace  and  tranquillity  and  to 
consolidating  the  country’s  democratic  dispensation 
was unparalleled. On two occasions, when multitudes 
of  his  supporters  wanted  to  take  to  the  streets  in  the 
aftermath of the 2006 and 2008 general and presidential 
elections to contest the results, he appealed for calm and 
restraint for the sake of national unity, thereby putting 
national interest above self.
resigning 
from 
immediately  after 
The  late  President  almost  single-handedly  led  his 
political party, the Patriotic Front. It grew from humble 
beginnings  to  eventually  dominating  the  Zambian 
political  landscape.  He  contested  the  presidential 
elections 
the 
Government  in  2001,  in  the  subsequent  elections  of 
2006 and in the presidential by-election in 2008, before 
finally  recording  a  resounding  victory  at  the  2011 
elections. In his hallmark fashion, after each election he 
would immediately launch the next elections campaign, 
starting  with  a  countrywide  tour  to  thank  those  who 
had voted for him. His voice in the political opposition 
was thus a constant and effective threat to incumbent 
Governments.  President  Sata  was  well  known  for 
his  brevity  and  candidness.  He  was  also  humorous 
and  generous  and  exhibited  a  degree  of  humility  and 
friendliness rarely found in the powerful.
Zambia has lost an outstanding political organizer 
who  caused  his  political  opponents  to  have  sleepless 
nights.  He  will  be  fondly  remembered  as  a  man  of 
action and as a President who contributed to Zambia’s 
economic  development  through  massive  investments 
in 
infrastructure  and  who  opened  up  Zambia’s 
intraconnectivity  in  an  unprecedented  manner  in  just 
three years of his rule.
The late President Michael Sata was a key supporter 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  its  work  resonated  with  his 
own passion for service to his fellow man. His addresses 
to the high-level segments of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-seventh and sixty-eighth sessions can attest to 
that fact.
On  behalf  on  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Republic  of  Zambia,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of 
the General Assembly and the Secretary-General of the 
United  Nations  -  thanks  to  whom  the  Member  States 
are  observing  this  commemoration  -  and  the  entire 
United Nations membership, for joining hands with the 
Zambian people at this moment of great loss. I want to 
assure everyone that our nation is greatly appreciative 
of their actions.
I would like to end by informing the Assembly that 
the transition process is now under way. In accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Zambian  Constitution,  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Zambia,  Mr.  Guy 
Scott,  is  serving  as  Acting  President,  pending  the 
presidential by-elections, which must be held within 90 
days of the incumbent’s death.
The  Government  is  gratified  that  the  Zambian 
people  continue  to  be  united  and  that  they  are  now, 
united  in  grief,  looking  to  pay  their  last  respects  to 
their  late  President  in  peace  and  dignity.  We  rely  on 
the  solidarity  and  best  wishes  of  our  friends  in  the 
international  community  to  overcome  this  national 
tragedy.
May the soul of our dearly departed President, His 
Excellency Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata, rest in eternal 
peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, who 
will speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Mr.  Llorenty  Solíz 
(Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China to pay tribute to Mr. Michael 
Sata, President of the Republic of Zambia, who passed 
away on 28 October 2014 at King Edward VII Hospital 
in London.
On  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  I  wish 
to express our solidarity with the Republic of Zambia 
and  express  our  heartfelt  condolences  on  the  death 
2/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
of  President  Sata,  who  became  the  fifth  President  of 
Zambia  on  23  September  2011  after  a  popular  vote. 
His  achievements  and  efforts  constitute  an  important 
contribution  to  the  development  and  growth  of  the 
Republic of Zambia. Furthermore, the Group of 77 and 
China will continue to support the valuable initiatives 
of that country.
To the people of Zambia, we know that words can 
give  little  consolation  to  relieve  grief,  but  we  would 
like to express our deep sorrow for the loss of such an 
important leader.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Malawi, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of African States.
Mr.  Msosa  (Malawi):  The  African  Group  wishes 
to offer its condolences to the Acting President of the 
Republic of Zambia, Mr. Guy Scott, and to the people 
of Zambia for the loss of one of Africa’s finest leaders, 
His Excellency Mr. Michael Sata, who passed away at 
the age of 77 on 28 October 2014, in London.
We join the people of Zambia at this sad moment in 
paying tribute to a leader who devoted his whole life to 
what was right for the people of his country, the African 
continent  and  the  whole  world.  President  Sata  was 
a  man  of  substance  and  vision.  During  his  campaign 
for the presidency he carried to his people a message 
of  peaceful  coexistence  among  all  Zambians.  He  also 
campaigned for the socioeconomic development of his 
country and strove to make Zambia prosper and reach 
greater heights.
Africa  will  fondly  remember  President  Sata  as 
a  fearless  freedom  fighter,  a  reformer  and  one  of  the 
architects  of  the  liberation  struggle  that  led  to  the 
independence of  Zambia and other  African countries. 
We know that the late President Sata will be missed by 
those who knew him personally and officially for the 
ideals that he firmly believed in and for his courage in 
ensuring that his people were provided for in respect of 
the basic needs they deserved and beyond.
We in the African Group are profoundly saddened 
by  the  loss  of  a  true  son  of  Zambia  and  Africa.  He 
worked  tirelessly  to  promote  peace  and  stability, 
not only for his own country but for the whole of the 
African continent and beyond.
In this period of sorrow, the African Group wishes 
to  urge  all  Zambians  to  remain  calm,  united  and 
peaceful.
May his soul rest in peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Japan, who will speak on behalf of the 
Asia-Pacific Group.
Mr. Yoshikawa (Japan): I have the great honour to 
speak on behalf of the Asia-Pacific Group at this solemn 
gathering of the General Assembly to pay tribute to the 
memory of His Excellency Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata, 
the late President of the Republic of Zambia.
History will no doubt remember the late President 
Sata as a man of conviction and action. Throughout his 
term in office, which began in 2011, the late President 
worked  diligently  to  improve  the  lives  of  ordinary 
citizens. His strong leadership contributed profoundly 
to the betterment of Zambian society.
He implemented pro-poor and equitable development 
policies and drew attention to the have-nots among the 
nation’s  population.  In  particular,  the  late  President 
achieved  the  provision  of  free  medical  services  for 
the  people  and  built  an  additional  650  health  posts 
throughout  the  country.  In  the  field  of  education,  he 
promoted the construction of facilities for elementary 
and secondary schools, thereby doubling the number of 
school buildings in Zambia. Furthermore, he vigorously 
promoted infrastructure development in rural areas.
The late President also underscored the importance 
of 
realizing 
justice.  He  established  an 
anti-corruption commission and increased the staff and 
budget of the Auditor-General’s office.
social 
He  was  also  a  strong  supporter  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
September 2013, which sadly turned out to be his last 
appearance on this rostrum, he solemnly declared his 
belief in multilateralism and his determination to work 
towards  international  peace  and  development  through 
the Organization (see A/68/PV.7).
One  notable  instance  of  his  commitment  to  the 
United Nations was Zambia’s active role in addressing a 
number of the challenges facing landlocked developing 
countries  (LLDCs).  The  Zambian  delegation,  in  its 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  LLDCs,  has  been 
taking the lead in that field. His passing is undoubtedly 
a tremendous loss for this world body.
In  my  national  capacity,  I  would  like  to  briefly 
touch  upon  the  privileged  relationship  that  Japan  has 
had with Zambia and its late President.
14-59630
3/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of Zambian 
independence. It was on the day of the closing ceremony 
of the Tokyo Summer Olympics of 1964 that Northern 
Rhodesia became independent as Zambia. The athletes 
of  the  newly  founded  Zambia  proudly  marched  onto 
the field in Tokyo, brandishing their new national flag. 
The  Japanese  people  were  deeply  impressed  by  their 
march, which symbolized their huge expectations for a 
bright future. Since then our two countries have been 
fostering strong and friendly relations. Japan’s Imperial 
Highnesses  Prince  and  Princess  Akishino  visited 
Zambia last July to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of 
bilateral diplomatic relations.
The 
late  President  Sata  made 
to  strengthening  our  bilateral 
significant 
contributions 
ties. 
Through  his  visits  to  Japan,  including  his  official 
visit  in  2012  and  his  participation  in  the  fifth  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
in  2013,  he  personally  deepened  exchanges  with  our 
people.
I  myself  had 
the  honour  of  meeting  with 
President  Sata  in  January  this  year  on  the  occasion 
of the African Union Summit in Addis Ababa. It was 
therefore with great sadness that I learned of the sudden 
passing of the late President.
The  world  has  lost  a  great  politician.  On  this 
solemn  occasion,  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  the 
Asia-Pacific  Group  for  the  month  of  October,  I  wish 
to convey my deepest condolences to the family of the 
late President and to the Government and people of the 
Republic of Zambia. It is our strong belief that Zambian 
people have the strength to overcome this sadness and 
to continue to work towards further prosperity.
May his soul rest in peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Estonia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr. Kolga (Estonia): It was with great sadness that 
I learned of the passing of His Excellency Mr. Michael 
Chilufya Sata, President of the Republic of Zambia. As 
Chairman  of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States, 
please allow me to express our deepest condolences to 
the people of Zambia and to the family of late President 
Sata in response to this sad news.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute 
to the late President, who was a well-respected member 
of  the  international  community  and  a  committed 
leader  of  the  Zambian  people.  History  will  remember 
President  Sata  as  a  charismatic  leader  who  will  be 
remembered  within  his  own  nation  as  a  passionate 
competitor, a true Zambian and a man of conviction and 
great determination. As has been noted by his friends, 
he was extremely dedicated to anything that he decided 
to  achieve.  Throughout  his  political  career,  he  played 
an important role in the public life of his country and 
remained a vocal advocate of the Zambian people. 
May he rest in peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Grenada, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
Mr. Antoine (Grenada): On behalf of the Group of 
Latin American and Caribbean States and the Permanent 
Mission of Grenada, I convey my sincere condolences at 
the passing of President Michael Chilufyua Sata to the 
Permanent Representative of Zambia and her staff, to 
the family of the late President and to the Government 
and the people of Zambia.
Zambians  to  whom  I  have  spoken  have  told  me 
that the late President was a man who worked hard for 
his  people,  his  country  and  Africa  even  years  before 
he became President. Throughout his political life and 
as President, he worked with passion for the poor and 
the  marginalized.  President  Sata  was  always  a  man 
of  action.  He  was  a  policeman,  a  trade-union  leader, 
a  railroad  sweeper,  a  porter  and  a  President.  He  was 
a  lifelong  learner,  graduating  with  a  degree  only  in 
2011. But through it all, he never lost his common touch 
or  his  passion  to  improve  the  lives  of  his  people.  He 
was a model of determination and is to be emulated by 
political leaders.
In  celebrating  his  life,  it  is  fitting  to  recall  the 
late  President’s  reform  of  the  national  health-care 
system  during  his  tenure  as  Minister  for  Health  -  an 
accomplishment worth taking note of in the face of the 
health-care challenges in Africa today. In the words of 
a poet,
“To  earn  the  appreciation  of  honest  critics  and 
endure the betrayal of false friends; To appreciate 
the  beauty,  to  find  the  best  in  others;  ...  To  leave 
the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, 
a garden patch, a redeemed social condition; ... To 
know even one life has breathed easier because you 
have lived – This is to succeed.”
4/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
Michael Sata succeeded. The passing of the Head 
of State of Zambia, a man of courage, who died in the 
search  for  sustainable  development  in  his  country, 
diminishes us all.
May his soul rest in peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Sweden, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and other States.
Mr.  Thöresson  (Sweden):  On  this  very  solemn 
occasion, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the 
Group of Western European and other States. It is with 
profound sadness and great sorrow that we learned of 
the passing of the President of the Republic of Zambia, 
His Excellency Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata.
We  just  celebrated  Zambia’s  Golden  Jubilee  last 
week on 24 October. History will remember President 
Sata  as  a  leader  committed  to  building  his  country 
during its first 50 years of independence. We recognize 
his many accomplishments and his desire to achieve the 
political and economic development of Zambia.
Throughout his term in office, President Sata was 
committed the cause of social justice, paying particular 
attention to the country’s youth. Under his leadership, 
Zambia  continued  to  make  great  strides  towards 
achieving  the  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
particularly with respect to primary school enrolment 
and the fight against child malnutrition and malaria.
We  offer  our  profound  condolences 
the 
Government and the people of the Republic of Zambia, 
to his wife, Dr. Christine Kaseba Sata, to his family and 
relatives, as well as to our dear friends and colleagues 
at the Mission of Zambia here in New York.
to 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America,  who 
will speak on behalf of the host country.
Mr.  Pressman  (United  States  of  America):  On 
behalf  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I  would  like 
to express my Government’s deep condolences on the 
passing  of  Zambian  President  Michael  Chilufya  Sata. 
We extend our sympathies to the President’s family and 
to the people of Zambia during this time of mourning.
We honour President Sata’s years of service to his 
country  and  his  leadership  in  the  Southern  African 
region. His many accomplishments will be remembered 
with respect.
We note that the passing of President Sata came just 
days after Zambia celebrated 50 years of independence. 
The  United  States  has  considered  itself  a  friend  of 
the  people  of  Zambia  throughout  that  time,  and  has 
recognized  Zambia’s  strong  democratic  tradition.  As 
President Obama wrote to President Sata on 21 October:
“The United States Government has been proud to 
count Zambia as a partner of Zambia’s first 50 years, 
and we look forward to growing that partnership in 
the years ahead.” 
We offer our deep condolences.
Agenda item 70
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice (A/69/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/337)
The  President: 
I  welcome  The  Honourable 
Judge Peter Tomka, President of the International Court 
of Justice, to the General Assembly, who will present 
this year’s report on the activities of the Court (A/69/4).
The  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in 
applying the principles and norms of international law 
is essential for the promotion of the rule of law, friendly 
relations among States and, ultimately, for international 
peace and security. This year’s report shows increased 
judicial  activity  and  sustained  efforts 
to  handle 
proceedings  more  expeditiously.  Several  new  cases 
introduced  during  the  reporting  period  demonstrate 
that  States  from  all  regions  of  the  world  have  gained 
strong  confidence  in  the  Court  and  its  capacity  to 
deliver justice.
It is now my honour to give the floor to Judge Tomka.
Mr.  Tomka,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice: Before presenting the report on the activities 
of  the  Court  (A/69/4),  I  wish  to  join  those  who  have 
paid tribute to the late President Michael Chilufya Sata 
of  Zambia  and  to  express,  on  behalf  of  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  our  heartfelt 
sympathy and condolences to the Government and the 
people of Zambia.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  for 
continuing the practice of allowing the President of the 
International Court of Justice to present a review of the 
Court’s judicial activities over the previous year. This 
14-59630
5/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
practice  reflects  the  interest  in,  and  support  for,  the 
Court shown by the Assembly.
During the past 12 months the Court has continued 
to  fulfil  its  role  as  the  forum  of  choice  for  States  for 
the peaceful settlement of every kind of international 
dispute over which it has jurisdiction. As illustrated in 
the report that I have the honour to present to Member 
States today, the Court has made every effort to meet in a 
timely manner the expectations of the parties appearing 
before it, particularly when it has been presented with 
requests for the indication of provisional measures.
During  the  reporting  period  the  total  number  of 
contentious cases pending before the Court was 13; it 
now stands at 14. The Court held hearings in four cases.
First,  the  Court  held  hearings  on  three  requests 
for provisional measures: in October 2013, in the case 
Certain Activities carried out by Nicaragua in the Border 
Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua), which was joined with 
the case Construction of a Road in Costa Rica along the 
San Juan River (Nicaragua v. Costa Rica); in November 
2013, in the case Construction of a Road in Costa Rica 
along the San Juan River (Nicaragua v. Costa Rica); and 
in January 2014, in Questions relating to the Seizure and 
Detention of Certain Documents and Data (Timor-Leste 
v. Australia). Then, in March 2014, it held hearings on 
the merits in the case Application of the Convention on 
the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 
(Croatia v. Serbia). The Court is now deliberating that 
case  and  is  currently  in  the  process  of  drafting  its 
judgment, which it plans to deliver before the triennial 
renewal of its composition next February.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  also 
delivered three judgments: the first in the case Request 
for Interpretation of the Judgment of 15 June 1962 in the 
Case concerning the Temple of Preah Vihear (Cambodia 
v. Thailand) (Cambodia v. Thailand), the second in the 
case Maritime Dispute (Peru v. Chile) and the third in 
the  case  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic  (Australia  v.  Japan). 
In addition, it handed down three orders on requests for 
the indication of provisional measures.
As is traditional, I shall now report briefly on the 
main  decisions  of  the  Court  during  the  past  year.  I 
shall  deal  first  with  each  of  the  three  aforementioned 
judgments,  before  turning  to  the  orders  made  in  the 
case  Certain  Activities  carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in 
the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and  the 
case  Construction  of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the 
San  Juan  River  (Nicaragua  v.  Costa  Rica),  and  in  the 
case Questions relating to the Seizure and Detention of 
Certain Documents and Data (Timor-Leste v. Australia).
The  first  judgment  delivered  by  the  Court  during 
the  period  under  review  was  given  on  11  November 
2013  in  the  case  Request  for  Interpretation  of  the 
Judgment  of  15  June  1962  in  the  Case  concerning 
the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand) 
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand).  The  proceedings  concerning 
the  interpretation  were  instituted  on  28  April  2011 
by  the  Kingdom  of  Cambodia,  which  requested  the 
Court to interpret the Judgment delivered by the Court 
on  15  June  1962.  The  Court  was  seized  following 
incidents  between  Cambodia  and  Thailand  in  the 
border  area  close  to  the  Temple.  In  its  application, 
Cambodia contended that, even though “Thailand d[id] 
not dispute Cambodia’s sovereignty over the Temple”, 
it nevertheless called into question the 1962 Judgment 
in  its  entirety  by  “refus[ing]  Cambodia’s  sovereignty 
over the area beyond the Temple as far as its vicinity”. 
The applicant therefore asked the Court to interpret its 
1962  Judgment,  in  which  it  had  stated,  in  the  second 
operative  paragraph,  that  Thailand  was  under  an 
obligation to withdraw any personnel stationed by it “at 
the Temple, or in its vicinity on Cambodian territory”.
In  its  judgment  rendered  on  11  November  2013, 
the  Court  first  considered  whether  it  had  jurisdiction 
and  whether  Cambodia’s  request  for  interpretation 
was  admissible.  That  request  was  made  pursuant  to 
Article 60 of the Statute of the Court, which provides 
that “In the event of dispute as to the meaning or scope 
of  [a]  judgment,  the  Court  shall  construe  it  upon  the 
request  of  any  party”.  After  examining  whether  the 
conditions  set  out  in  Article  60  were  satisfied,  the 
Court  concluded  that  there  was  a  dispute  between 
the  parties  as  to  the  meaning  and  scope  of  the  1962 
Judgment.  It  noted,  in  that  respect,  that  the  principal 
dispute  concerned  the  territorial  scope  of  the  second 
operative  paragraph,  namely,  the  territorial  extent  of 
the “vicinity” of the Temple of Preah Vihear.
The Court considered that from the reasoning in the 
1962 judgment, seen in the light of the pleadings in the 
original  proceedings,  the  second  operative  paragraph 
of  the  1962  judgment  required  Thailand  to  withdraw 
from  the  whole  of  the  territory  of  the  promontory  of 
Preah  Vihear  any  Thai  personnel  stationed  there. 
Accordingly,  the  Court  concluded  that  the  terms 
“vicinity on Cambodian territory” had to be construed 
as extending at least to the area where, at the time of 
the original proceedings, a Thai police detachment was 
6/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
found to have been stationed. The Court observed that 
that  conclusion  was  confirmed  by  a  number  of  other 
factors, in particular the fact that the area around the 
Temple is located on an easily identifiable geographical 
feature – a promontory.
To the east, south and south-west, the promontory 
drops  in  a  steep  escarpment  to  the  Cambodian 
plain.  The  parties  were  in  agreement  in  1962  that 
that  escarpment  and  the  land  at  its  foot  were  under 
Cambodian sovereignty in any event. To the west and 
north-west, the land drops in a slope, less steep than the 
escarpment but nonetheless pronounced, into the valley 
which  separates  Preah  Vihear  from  the  neighbouring 
hill of Phnom Trap, a valley which itself drops away in 
the south to the Cambodian plain.
The  Court  found  that  Phnom  Trap  lay  outside 
the  disputed  area  and  that  the  1962  Judgment  did  not 
address the question of whether it was located in Thai or 
Cambodian territory. Accordingly, the Court considered 
that the promontory of Preah Vihear ended at the foot of 
the hill of Phnom Trap, that is to say where the ground 
begins to rise from the valley. In the north, it concluded 
that the reasoning in the 1962 Judgment showed that the 
Court considered Cambodia’s territory to extend as far 
as the line on the map annexed to its pleadings in the 
original proceedings, the so-called annex I map, which 
had been accepted by the parties. It therefore ruled that 
in the north the limit of the promontory is the annex I 
map line, from a point to the north-east of the Temple 
where that line abuts the escarpment to a point in the 
north-west  where  the  ground  begins  to  rise  from  the 
valley at the foot of the hill of Phnom Trap.
The Court then examined the relationship between 
the  second  operative  paragraph  and  the  rest  of  the 
operative  part  of  the  Judgment.  It  considered  that  the 
territorial scope of the three operative paragraphs was 
the  same:  the  finding  in  the  first  paragraph  that  “the 
Temple of Preah Vihear is situated in territory under the 
sovereignty of Cambodia” must be taken as referring, 
like the second and third paragraphs, to the whole of the 
territory of the promontory of Preah Vihear.
Finally, the Court observed that the Temple of Preah 
Vihear is a site of religious and cultural significance for 
the peoples of the region and is now listed by UNESCO 
as a world heritage site. In that respect, it recalled that 
under article 6 of the 1972 Convention concerning the 
Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, 
to  which  both  States  are  parties,  Cambodia  and 
Thailand must cooperate between themselves and with 
the international community in the protection of the site 
as  world  heritage.  In  addition,  each  State  is  under  an 
obligation not to “take any deliberate measures which 
might damage directly or indirectly” such heritage. In 
the context of those obligations, the Court emphasized 
the importance of ensuring access to the Temple from 
the Cambodian plain.
that  Cambodia  had  sovereignty  over 
In  the  operative  part  of  its  Judgment,  the  Court 
found 
the 
whole  territory  of  the  promontory  of  Preah  Vihear, 
as  previously  defined,  and  that,  as  a  consequence, 
Thailand  was  under  an  obligation  to  withdraw  from 
that territory the Thai military or police forces or other 
guards or keepers that were stationed there.
Also  during  the  review  period,  on  27  January 
2014,  the  Court  handed  down  a  second  judgment,  on 
delimitation  of  the  boundary  between  the  maritime 
zones of Peru and Chile in the Pacific Ocean - Maritime 
Dispute  (Peru  v.  Chile).  Peru  argued  that  no  agreed 
maritime  boundary  existed  between  itself  and  Chile, 
and asked the Court to draw a boundary line using the 
equidistance  method  in  order  to  achieve  an  equitable 
result. Chile, on the other hand, contended that it was 
not  for  the  Court  to  draw  a  boundary  line,  since  an 
international maritime boundary agreed on between the 
parties already existed. According to Chile, it followed 
the  parallel  of  latitude  passing  through  the  starting 
point of the Peru-Chile land boundary and extended to 
a minimum of 200 nautical miles, as indicated on the 
map distributed.
In  order  to  resolve  the  dispute,  the  Court  first 
sought  to  ascertain  whether,  as  Chile  claimed,  an 
agreed  maritime  boundary  already  existed.  To  that 
end, it examined various instruments submitted to it by 
the  parties,  and  in  particular  the  1947  proclamations, 
whereby  Peru  and  Chile  had  each  unilaterally 
proclaimed  certain  maritime  rights  extending  200 
nautical miles from their respective coasts, as well as 
the 1952 Santiago Declaration on the Maritime Zone, in 
which Chile, Ecuador and Peru
“proclaim[ed]  as  a  norm  of  their  international 
maritime policy that they each possess[ed] exclusive 
sovereignty  and  jurisdiction  of  the  sea  along  the 
coasts of their respective countries to a minimum 
distance of 200 nautical miles from those coasts”.
The  Court  found,  however, 
those 
instruments established a maritime boundary between 
Peru and Chile.
that  none  of 
14-59630
7/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
The  Court  then  proceeded  to  examine  a  series  of 
subsequent  agreements  and  arrangements  between 
Peru,  Chile  and  Ecuador.  In  particular,  it  analysed  a 
document dating from 1954, the Agreement relating to 
a Special Maritime Frontier Zone, which established a 
zone of tolerance, starting at a distance of 12 nautical 
miles  from  the  coast,  “of  10  nautical  miles  on  either 
side  of  the  parallel  which  constitutes  the  maritime 
boundary”.  The  Court  found  that  the  terms  of  that 
instrument  acknowledged,  in  a  binding  international 
agreement, that a maritime boundary already existed. 
The Court noted, however, that the text did not indicate 
when and how that boundary had been agreed on. The 
Court  therefore  concluded  that  the  parties’  express 
acknowledgement  of  the  existence  of  a  maritime 
boundary could only reflect a tacit agreement that they 
had reached earlier and that had been cemented by the 
1954 Special Maritime Frontier Zone Agreement. The 
Court observed, however, that that Agreement gave no 
indication  as  to  the  nature  of  the  maritime  boundary, 
nor did it indicate its extent, although its terms made 
it  clear  that  the  maritime  boundary  extended  beyond 
12 nautical miles from the coast.
In the light of that finding, the Court then addressed 
the  question  of  the  nature  of  the  agreed  maritime 
boundary. Pointing out that the tacit agreement between 
the parties should be understood in the context of the 
1947 proclamations and the 1952 Santiago Declaration, 
which  expressed  claims  to  the  seabed  and  to  the 
waters  above  the  seabed  and  their  resources,  with  no 
distinction drawn between those spaces by the parties, 
the Court concluded that the maritime boundary was an 
all-purpose one.
The Court then sought to determine the extent of 
the agreed maritime boundary. It began by examining 
the practice of the parties in the early and mid-1950s, 
starting with fishing potential and activity. The Court 
noted  that  the  information  referred  to  by  the  parties 
showed  that  the  species  that  were  being  taken  in  the 
early 1950s were generally to be found within a range 
of  60  nautical  miles  from  the  coast.  While  recalling 
that, given the maritime boundary’s all-purpose nature, 
evidence concerning fisheries activity could not in itself 
be  determinative  of  the  boundary’s  extent,  the  Court 
believed that those activities appeared to indicate that, 
at the time when the parties acknowledged the existence 
of  an  agreed  maritime  boundary  between  them,  they 
were unlikely to have considered that it extended all the 
way to the 200-nautical-mile limit.
The  Court  then  moved  on  to  the  broader  context 
and  examined  the  development  of  the  law  of  the  sea 
at the start of the 1950s. In particular, it observed that 
claims to a maritime zone of at least 200 nautical miles, 
such as those made by the parties in the 1952 Santiago 
Declaration, did not correspond to the international law 
of the period. On the basis of the parties’ fishing activities 
at that time, the relevant practice of other States and the 
work of the International Law Commission on the law 
of  the  sea,  the  Court  considered  that  the  evidence  at 
its disposal did not allow it to conclude that the agreed 
maritime boundary along the parallel extended beyond 
80 nautical miles from its starting point. In the light of 
that  tentative  conclusion,  the  Court  examined  further 
elements  of  practice,  for  the  most  part  subsequent  to 
1954, but concluded that they did not lead it to change 
its position.
The  Court  then  turned  to  the  question  of  the 
starting point of the agreed maritime boundary. After 
paying  particular  attention  to  the  documents  that  had 
led to the conclusion of arrangements whereby, in 1968 
and 1969, the parties decided to construct lighthouses 
“to  materialize  the  parallel  of  the  maritime  frontier 
originating at” the first boundary marker along the land 
frontier, the Court concluded that the starting point of 
the maritime boundary between the parties was located 
at the intersection of the low waterline with the parallel 
of latitude passing through Boundary Marker No. 1.
The  Court  next  proceeded  to  its  determination  of 
the course of the maritime boundary from the end point 
of the agreed line. For that purpose, it applied its usual 
method,  as  explained  in  detail  in  its  2009  Judgment 
in  the  case  concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the 
Black Sea (Romania v. Ukraine). The Court concluded 
that the maritime boundary between the parties starts 
at  the  intersection  of  the  parallel  of  latitude  passing 
through Boundary Marker No. I with the low waterline, 
and  extends  for  80  nautical  miles  along  that  parallel 
of  latitude  to  a  point  indicated  on  map  No.  4,  which 
has  been  circulated,  as  Point  A.  From  that  point,  the 
maritime  boundary  runs  along  the  equidistance  line 
to the point indicated on the map as Point B, and then 
along  the  200-nautical-mile  limit  measure  from  the 
Chilean baselines to the point indicated as Point C.
Before  concluding  my  summary  of  this  case,  I 
would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to Peru’s 
second submission, in which it requested the Court to 
adjudge  and  declare  that,  beyond  the  point  where  the 
common  maritime  boundary  ended,  it  was  entitled  to 
8/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
exercise sovereign rights over a maritime area lying out 
to a distance of 200 nautical miles from its baselines. 
The claim related to the area shown in a darker shade 
of  blue  in  sketch  map  No.  2,  which  I  understand  has 
been  circulated.  The  Court  held,  however,  that,  since 
it  had  already  concluded  that  the  agreed  boundary 
ended  at  80  nautical  miles  from  the  coast  and  that  it 
had  further  decided  that  beyond  that  point  it  would 
delimit the parties’ maritime entitlements by drawing 
an  equidistance  line,  Peru’s  second  submission  had 
become moot. The Court therefore did not rule on it.
In the light of the particular circumstances of the 
case, the Court determined the course of the maritime 
boundary  between  the  parties  without  specifying  its 
precise  geographical  coordinates.  It  recalled  that  in 
their  final  submissions  the  parties  had  not  requested 
that the Court do so. The Court accordingly invited Peru 
and Chile to determine those coordinates in accordance 
with its judgment, in a spirit of good neighbourliness, 
and  the  two  States  indeed  proceeded  to  do  so,  just  a 
few months after the Court handed down its decision. It 
is therefore worth emphasizing that within two months 
from  the  delivery  of  the  judgment,  the  two  parties 
and  their  Governments  reached  a  joint  agreement  on 
the precise geographical coordinates of their maritime 
boundary on the basis of the description set out in the 
Court’s Judgment.
(spoke in French)
On  31  March  2014,  the  Court  handed  down  a 
third  judgment,  in  the  case  concerning  Whaling  in 
the  Antarctic  (Australia  v.  Japan),  with  New  Zealand 
intervening  under  Article  63  of  the  Statute.  The 
proceedings  had  been  instituted  in  May  2010  by 
Australia, who accused Japan of the
the 
Japan  under 
“continued  pursuit  of  a  large-scale  program  of 
whaling  under  the  Second  Phase  of  its  Japanese 
Whale Research Program under Special Permit in 
the Antarctic (‘JARPA II’), in breach of obligations 
assumed  by 
International 
Convention  for  the  Regulation  of  Whaling  ...  as 
well  as  its  other  international  obligations  for  the 
preservation  of  marine  mammals  and  the  marine 
environment”.
In order to decide on the dispute, the Court began 
by addressing the issue of its jurisdiction, which Japan 
contested  on  the  ground  that  the  dispute  fell  within 
the  scope  of  a  reservation  in  Australia’s  declaration 
of  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction. 
In the Court’s view, however, that reservation applied 
only where there was a dispute between the parties over 
maritime  delimitation,  which  was  not  the  case  here. 
The Court accordingly concluded that Japan’s objection 
to jurisdiction could not be upheld.
The  Court  then  turned  to  the  core  of  the  case 
-  the  interpretation  and  application  of  article  VIII  of 
the  International  Convention  for  the  Regulation  of 
Whaling,  of  which  the  relevant  part  of  paragraph  1 
reads as follows:
anything 
contained 
“Notwithstanding 
in 
this  Convention  any  Contracting  Government 
may grant to any of its nationals a special permit 
authorizing  that  national  to  kill,  take  and  treat 
whales for purposes of scientific research subject to 
such restrictions as to number and subject to such 
other  conditions  as  the  Contracting  Government 
thinks fit.”
In regard to the interpretation of that provision, the 
Court  began  by  observing  that,  although  article  VIII 
gives  discretion  to  a  State  party  to  the  Convention 
to  reject  a  request  for  a  special  permit  or  to  specify 
the  conditions  for  the  granting  of  such  a  permit,  the 
answer  to  the  question  of  whether  the  killing,  taking 
and treatment of whales pursuant to a requested special 
permit was for purposes of scientific research could not 
depend  simply  on  that  State’s  perception.  The  Court 
then discussed the meaning of the phrase “for purposes 
of  scientific  research”  in  that  article,  concluding  that 
the two elements of that phrase were cumulative. As a 
result, even if a whaling programme involved scientific 
research,  the  killing,  taking  and  treating  of  marine 
mammals  pursuant  to  such  a  programme  did  not  fall 
within  article  VIII  unless  those  activities  were  for 
purposes of scientific research.
Regarding  the  application  of  paragraph  1  of 
article  VIII,  the  Court  found  that  JARPA  II  could 
generally  be  characterized  as  a  scientific  research 
programme. The Court then sought to ascertain whether 
the use of lethal methods was for purposes of scientific 
research,  and  to  that  end,  it  considered  whether  the 
elements of the programme’s design and implementation 
were  reasonable  in  relation  to  its  stated  research 
objectives.  In  that  connection,  the  Court  examined, 
inter alia, the following elements: decisions regarding 
the use of lethal methods, the scale of the programme’s 
use of lethal sampling, the methodology used to select 
sample sizes, a comparison of the target sample sizes 
and the actual take, the time frame associated with the 
14-59630
9/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
programme,  the  programme’s  scientific  output,  and 
the  degree  to  which  the  programme  coordinated  its 
activities with related research projects.
From  its  examination,  the  Court  concluded  that 
while JARPA II, taken as a whole, involved activities 
that  could  broadly  be  characterized  as  scientific 
research,  “the  evidence  [did]  not  establish 
that 
design  and  implementation  of  the  programme  [were] 
reasonable in relation to stated objectives”. The Court 
concluded that the special permits granted by Japan for 
the killing, taking and treating of whales in connection 
with  JARPA  II  were  not  “for  purposes  of  scientific 
research” pursuant to article VIII, paragraph 1, of the 
Convention.
The  Court  next  turned  to  the  implications  of 
that  conclusion,  in  the  light  of  Australia’s  contention 
that  Japan  had  breached  several  provisions  of  the 
Schedule  appended  to  the  Convention.  In  the  view 
of  the  Court,  despite  the  differences  in  wording,  all 
whaling  activities  that  did  not  fall  within  the  terms 
of  article  VIII  of  the  Convention,  with  the  exception 
of  aboriginal  subsistence  whaling,  were  covered  by 
three  specific  provisions  of  the  Schedule.  The  Court 
accordingly  concluded  that  Japan  had  breached,  first, 
the moratorium on commercial whaling for each of the 
years  in  which  it  had  set  catch  limits  above  zero  for 
minke whales, fin whales and humpback whales under 
JARPA  II;  secondly,  the  factory  ship  moratorium, 
for each of the seasons during which fin whales were 
taken, killed and treated under JARPA II; and thirdly, 
the ban on commercial whaling in the Southern Ocean 
Sanctuary,  for  each  of  the  JARPA  II  seasons  during 
which fin whales had been taken. However, the Court 
held that, contrary to what Australia had claimed, Japan 
had met the requirements of a further provision of the 
Schedule, whereby every contracting Government must 
make  proposed  permits  available  to  the  International 
Whaling  Commission  in  sufficient  time  to  permit 
review and comment by the Scientific Committee.
In  the  light  of  its  findings,  the  Court  then 
addressed the issue of remedies. The Court noted that 
JARPA II was an ongoing programme and that under the 
circumstances,  measures  going  beyond  a  declaratory 
judgment were warranted. It therefore ordered Japan to 
revoke  any  extant  authorization,  permit  or  licence  to 
kill,  take  or  treat  whales  in  relation  to  JARPA  II  and 
refrain from granting any further permits under article 
VIII,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Convention  in  pursuance  of 
the JARPA II programme. On the other hand, the Court 
saw no need to order the additional remedy requested 
by  Australia,  which  would  require  Japan  to  refrain 
from  authorizing  or  implementing  any  special-permit 
whaling that was not for purposes of scientific research 
within the meaning of article VIII. In the Court’s view, 
that obligation already applied to all State parties.
I should also like to take the opportunity to draw 
the Assembly’s attention to the fact that the Court has 
made  increasing  use  of  the  deliberation  procedure 
provided  for  in  article  1  of  the  resolution  concerning 
the Internal Judicial Practice of the Court, whose first 
paragraph provides that:
the 
termination  of 
“After 
the  written 
proceedings  before  the  beginning  of  the  oral 
proceedings,  a  deliberation  is  held  at  which  the 
judges  exchange  views  concerning  the  case,  and 
bring to the notice of the Court any point in regard 
to  which  they  consider  it  may  be  necessary  to 
call for explanations during the course of the oral 
proceedings”.
Such  deliberations  effectively  enable  the  Court 
to  identify  any  issue  on  which  it  would  like  further 
explanation or clarification during the oral proceedings 
on the substance of a case. Thus, once it has completed 
its  deliberations,  the  Court  communicates  its  queries 
to  the  parties  with  a  view  to  directing  their  oral 
presentations 
additional 
information needed by the Court at the hearings. It is a 
procedure that is particularly useful in cases with major 
scientific content, or where the factual background is 
a particularly complex one. The Court did indeed hold 
such a deliberation in the Whaling case, as well as in the 
case between Ecuador and Colombia concerning Aerial 
Herbicide Spraying (Ecuador v. Colombia), which was 
settled by the parties before the opening of the hearings 
on the merits.
towards  providing 
the 
As  I  have  already  noted,  during  the  reporting 
period the Court also handed down three orders, which 
I will briefly present in chronological order.
The first of them was issued on 22 November 2013 
in the case concerning Certain Activities carried out by 
Nicaragua in the Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua). 
That  decision  followed  a  request  for  the  indication  of 
new provisional measures submitted on 24 September 
2013 by Costa Rica, protesting Nicaragua’s construction 
of two new caños, or canals, in the “disputed territory”, 
as defined by the Court in an order for the indication 
of provisional measures of 8 March 2011, namely, the 
10/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
northern part of Isla Portillos, that is to say, the area of 
wetlands of some 3 square kilometres between the right 
bank  of  the  disputed  caño,  the  right  bank  of  the  San 
Juan River up to its mouth at the Caribbean Sea and the 
Harbour Head Lagoon.
In  its  order  of  22  November  2013,  the  Court  held 
that  there  was  sufficient  evidence  before  it  for  it  to 
conclude that, given the length, width and location of 
a trench dug close to the larger of the two new canals - 
the eastern caño - there was a real risk of its reaching 
the Caribbean Sea as a result of either natural or human 
action, or of a combination of the two. That could cause 
the San Juan River to change its course, with serious 
consequences  for  the  rights  claimed  by  Costa  Rica 
in  the  case.  The  Court  therefore  decided  not  only  to 
reiterate the provisional measures indicated by it in its 
order of 8 March 2011, but also to order new measures. 
It stated that Nicaragua must refrain from any dredging 
and other activities in the disputed territory and must, 
in particular, refrain from work of any kind on the two 
new caños and fill in the trench on the beach north of 
the eastern caño.
A  few  weeks  later,  on  13  December  2013,  the 
Court handed down an order in the case concerning the 
Construction  of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San 
Juan  River  (Nicaragua  v.  Costa  Rica).  In  its  request 
for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures,  Nicaragua 
stated  that  it  was  seeking  to  protect  certain  rights 
which it claimed were threatened by road works being 
carried  out  by  Costa  Rica,  in  particular  the  resultant 
transboundary movement of sediment and other debris.
The Court, however, found that the circumstances as 
they then presented themselves to it were not such as to 
require the exercise of its power to indicate provisional 
measures.  In  particular,  the  Court  considered  that 
Nicaragua  had  not  established  that  the  construction 
works had led to a substantial increase in the sediment 
load  in  the  river  and  had  not  presented  evidence  as 
to  any  long-term  effect  on  the  river  resulting  from 
aggradations of the river channel allegedly caused by 
additional sediment from the construction of the road. 
Nor had the applicant explained how certain species in 
the  river’s  wetlands  could  be  endangered  by  the  road 
works, or identified with precision which species were 
likely to be affected.
Lastly,  the  Court  handed  down  a  third  order  for 
the  indication  of  provisional  measures  in  the  case 
concerning  Questions  relating  to  the  Seizure  and 
Detention of Certain Documents and Data (Timor-Leste 
v. Australia). That decision followed a request submitted 
on  17  December  2013  by  Timor-Leste  on  account 
of  the  seizure  on  3  December  2013  and  subsequent 
detention  by  “agents  of  Australia  of  documents,  data 
and other property which belongs to Timor-Leste and/
or  which  Timor-Leste  has  the  right  to  protect  under 
international law”. Timor-Leste claimed that the items 
seized  included  documents,  data  and  correspondence 
between Timor-Leste and its legal advisers relating to 
the pending Arbitration under the Timor Sea Treaty of 
20 May 2002 between Timor-Leste and Australia.
In its decision of 3 March 2014, the Court took the 
view that if Australia failed to immediately safeguard 
the confidentiality of the material seized by its agents 
on  3  December  2013,  the  right  of  Timor-Leste  to 
conduct arbitral proceedings and negotiations without 
interference could suffer irreparable harm. The Court 
noted, however, that the Attorney-General of Australia 
had given a written undertaking on 21 January 2014 that 
included  an  assurance  that  the  seized  material  would 
not  be  made  available  to  any  part  of  the  Australian 
Government  for  any  purpose  in  connection  with  the 
exploitation  of  resources  in  the  Timor  Sea  or  related 
negotiations  or  in  connection  with  the  conduct  of  the 
current case before the Court or the proceedings of the 
Timor Sea Treaty Tribunal.
in  certain  circumstances 
Nonetheless,  after  taking  cognizance  of  the  fact 
involving  national 
that 
security,  the  Government  of  Australia  envisaged  the 
possibility  of  making  use  of  the  seized  material,  the 
Court took the view that while the written undertaking 
made a significant contribution towards mitigating the 
imminent risk of irreparable prejudice to Timor-Leste’s 
rights  caused  by  the  seizure  of  the  above-mentioned 
material, it did not remove that risk entirely. The Court 
accordingly concluded that the conditions required by 
its  Statute  for  it  to  indicate  provisional  measures  had 
been  met.  Furthermore,  on  3  September  the  Court 
decided to accept a joint request from the parties for the 
oral  proceedings  between  Timor-Leste  and  Australia 
to  be  postponed.  Those  proceedings  had  been  due  to 
open on Wednesday 17 September 2014 and to close on 
Wednesday 24 September 2014.
Having  recalled  the  principal  decisions  handed 
down by the International Court of Justice in the course 
of the past year, I now come to the new cases submitted 
to it.
In addition to the proceedings between Timor-Leste 
and Australia commenced in December 2013, which I 
14-59630
11/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
have just discussed, the Court had, on September 2013, 
received  an  application  from  Nicaragua  instituting 
proceedings  against  Colombia,  in  which  it  requested 
the Court, first, to determine
“the  precise  course  of  the  maritime  boundary 
between  Nicaragua  and  Colombia  in  the  areas  of 
the  continental  shelf  which  appertained  to  each 
of them beyond the boundaries determined by the 
Court in its Judgment of 19 November 2012”;
and, secondly, to state the
“principles  and  rules  of  international  law  that 
determine  the  rights  and  duties  of  the  two  States 
in  relation  to  the  area  of  overlapping  continental 
shelf claims and the use of its resources, pending 
the delimitation of the maritime boundary between 
them beyond 200 nautical miles from Nicaragua’s 
coast”.
In November 2013 the Court was seized of further 
proceedings  by  Nicaragua  against  Colombia  in  a 
dispute concerning
“violations  of  Nicaragua’s  sovereign  rights  of 
maritime zones declared by the Court’s Judgment 
of  19  November  2012  in  the  case  concerning 
Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute  (Nicaragua  v.
Colombia)  and  the  threat  of  the  use  of  force  by 
Colombia in order to implement those violations”.
Next,  on  25  February,  the  Court  was  seized  of  a 
dispute between Costa Rica and Nicaragua in the case 
concerning Maritime Delimitation in the Caribbean Sea 
and  the  Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua).  It  is 
moreover  noteworthy  that  it  was  the  first  time  in  the 
Court’s  history  that  it  had  been  asked  to  carry  out  a 
maritime  delimitation  between  two  States  on  either 
side  of  their  respective  mainland  territories,  in  that 
delimitation was being requested in both the Caribbean 
Sea and the Pacific Ocean in that specific case.
On  24  April,  the  Marshall  Islands  filed  nine 
applications with the Court Registry, in which it accused 
nine States of failing to perform their obligations with 
respect to nuclear disarmament and the cessation of the 
nuclear arms race at an early date. The applications filed 
against India, Pakistan and the United Kingdom were 
entered on the Court’s General List, since those States 
have  accepted  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction 
under Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute. However, 
in  regard  to  the  six  other  applications  against  China, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  France, 
Israel, the Russian Federation and the United States of 
America,  that  was  not  possible.  In  respect  of  each  of 
those applications, the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
stated  that  it  sought,  in  accordance  with  article  38, 
paragraph 5 of the Rules of Court to base the Court’s 
jurisdiction on the consent of the State concerned under 
the doctrine of forum prorogatum. Without that consent, 
none of the applications could be entered on the forms 
of the Court’s list.
Finally,  on  28  August,  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Somalia  instituted  proceedings  against  the  Republic 
of Kenya with regard to a dispute concerning Maritime 
Delimitation  in  the  Indian  Ocean  (Somalia  v.  Kenya). 
Specifically, Somalia claims that the two States disagree 
on the course of their common maritime boundary and 
requests the Court
“to determine, on the basis of international law, the 
complete  course  of  the  single  maritime  boundary 
dividing  all  the  maritime  areas  appertaining  to 
Somalia and to Kenya in the Indian Ocean, including 
in the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles”.
It should be noted that both States have filed a declaration 
accepting  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction  under 
article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute.
That therefore brings to seven the number of new 
cases submitted during the period under review and to 
14  the  total  number  of  cases  currently  on  the  Court’s 
docket. As I have just shown, the Court always strives 
to  ensure  that  the  disputes  submitted  to  it  are  settled 
promptly,  in  order  to  reduce  its  judicial  backlog  or 
even eliminate it entirely. Hearings have been held and 
deliberations are under way in every case on the Court’s 
General List in which the written procedure has closed. 
The  Court  is  thus  committed  to  fulfilling  its  high 
judicial mission impartially and effectively, relying on 
the  cooperation  of  the  parties  to  the  disputes  brought 
before it so as to resolve them in a timely manner. 
By way of example, I need only remind the Assembly 
that the Court made all the necessary preparations for 
public  hearings  to  be  held  in  September  2014  in  the 
case  concerning  Questions  relating  to  the  Seizure  and 
Detention of Certain Documents and Data (Timor-Leste 
v. Australia). It was only after receiving a joint request 
from the parties to postpone the hearings that it decided 
to adjourn the proceedings.
The  Court  has  also  continued  its  extrajudicial 
activities  this  past  year,  notably  the  organization  of 
a  conference  to  celebrate  the  centenary  of  the  Peace 
12/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
Palace,  held  on  23  September  2013.  That  conference, 
which  centred  on  the  theme  of  “The  International 
Court  of  Justice  in  the  Service  of  Peace  and  Justice”, 
gave the Court the opportunity to welcome prominent 
figures and to present speakers of the highest quality 
at the conference’s round tables. It was a very full but 
well-balanced  programme,  encouraging  speakers  and 
audience alike not only to focus on the past and present 
of international justice, but also to reflect on the future 
and  the  challenges  that  lie  ahead,  particularly  for  the 
Court.  I  am  delighted  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
in  July  a  collective  work  entitled  Enhancing  the  Rule 
of  Law  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  an 
outcome of the conference held to mark the centenary 
of the Peace Palace, was published.
In conclusion, I should like to recall that the Court 
must do its utmost to serve the noble purposes and goals 
of the United Nations with modest resources, bearing in 
mind that Member States award it less than 1 per cent of 
the Organization’s regular budget. Nevertheless, I hope 
that  I  have  shown  that  the  recent  contributions  of  the 
Court are not to be measured in terms of its financial 
resources,  but  against  the  great  progress  it  has  made 
in  the  advancement  of  international  justice  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes between States.
I  would  like,  however,  to  draw  attention  to  the 
importance  of  the  role  of  Member  States  in  the 
composition  of  the  Court.  A  great  responsibility  is 
placed on Member States, for it is they who are called 
upon  to  choose  and  elect  the  members  of  the  Court 
who will be tasked with carrying out a high and noble 
judicial mission. Therefore the quality of the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  is  dependent  in 
large measure on the contribution of Member States in 
that respect. 
In  a  similar  vein,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  remind  the  Assembly  that,  despite 
various  appeals  and  the  adoption  of  texts  by  the 
General Assembly, the number of States having made a 
declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of the Court as 
compulsory under article 36, paragraph 2, of its Statute 
has remained at 70 during the period under review.
It is to be hoped that the statements issued by certain 
States expressing a desire to recognize the jurisdiction 
of  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  documents  adopted  to  that  end  will  give  rise 
to wider recognition of the Court’s jurisdiction within 
the international community in the form of declarations 
under article 36, paragraph 2. 1 believe that, as a forum 
of distinguished diplomats working specifically within 
the community of nations, the General Assembly is in 
a  privileged  position  to  promote  that  ideal  among  the 
Governments represented in the Assembly. I therefore 
reiterate  my  invitation  to  seek  to  encourage  recourse 
to the Court for the settlement of disputes, as well as 
increased recognition of its compulsory jurisdiction as a 
means of achieving peaceful resolutions to international 
conflicts and more harmonious inter-State relations.
I would like to thank the delegations of Botswana, 
Japan,  Lithuania,  the  Netherlands,  Switzerland,  the 
United  Kingdom  and  Uruguay  for  having  taken  the 
initiative  to  prepare  a  manual  for  the  acceptance  of 
the jurisdiction of the Court, which will be published 
in  five  languages.  I  welcome  the  publication  of  the 
manual, which will be very useful.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  for 
this  opportunity  to  address  it  today  and  I  wish  every 
success for its sixty-ninth session.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance to agenda item 70, entitled “Report of the 
International  Court  of  Justice”,  and  takes  note  of  the 
report  on  the  activities  of  the  Court  from  1  August 
2013  to  31  July  2014  (A/69/4),  as  requested  by  the 
decision of the Assembly last year. I would also like to 
thank the President of the International Court of Justice 
for his presentation of the report to the Assembly today.
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  positions  concerning  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  non-use  or 
threat of use of force. The International Court of Justice 
plays a significant role in promoting and encouraging 
the  settlement  of  international  disputes  by  peaceful 
means, as reflected in the United Nations Charter, and 
in such a manner that international peace and security, 
and justice, are not endangered.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
The  Movement  endeavours  to  generate  further 
progress  to  achieve  full  respect  for  international 
law  and,  in  this  regard,  commends  the  role  of  the 
International Court of Justice in promoting the peaceful 
settlement of international disputes, in accordance with 
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and the Statute of the Court, in particular Articles 33 
and 94 of the Charter.
14-59630
13/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
With  regard  to  advisory  opinions  of  the  Court, 
noting the fact that the Security Council has not sought 
any advisory opinion from the Court since 1970, NAM 
urges the Security Council to make greater use of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions  and  interpretation  of  the  relevant  norms  of 
international law, and on controversial issues. It further 
requests  the  Council  to  use  the  Court  as  a  source  of 
interpreting  relevant  international  law  and  also  urges 
the  Council  to  consider  its  decisions  being  reviewed 
by  the  Court,  bearing  in  mind  the  need  to  ensure 
their  adherence  to  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international law.
The Movement also invites the General Assembly, 
other organs of the United Nations and the specialized 
agencies duly authorized to request advisory opinions 
of the International Court of Justice on legal questions 
arising within the scope of their activities.
reaffirms 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
importance of the unanimous advisory opinion of the 
International Court of Justice issued on 8 July 1996 on 
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. On 
this, the Court concluded that there exists an obligation 
to  pursue  in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a  conclusion 
negotiations  leading  to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all 
aspects under strict and effective international control.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  call 
on  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  fully  respect  the 
9  July  2004  advisory  opinion  of  the  Court  entitled 
Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, and calls upon all States 
to respect and ensure respect of the provisions therein 
for the realization of the end of the Israeli occupation 
that began in 1967 and the independence of the State of 
Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. Mamabolo (South Africa): My delegation has 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States.
At the outset, the African Group would like to thank 
the President of the International Court of Justice, Judge 
Peter Tomka, for his presentation and also for the report 
(A/69/4). The African Group continues to consider the 
International  Court  of  Justice  to  be  the  pre-eminent 
mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  at 
the  international  level.  It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that 
the  Court,  as  a  court  of  justice  and,  moreover,  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, occupies 
a special position. Everything the world Court does is 
aimed  at  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  The  world  Court 
hands down judgments and gives advisory opinions in 
accordance with its Statute, which is an integral part of 
the Charter of the United Nations, and thus contributes 
to promoting and clarifying international law.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  reaffirmed 
confidence that States have shown in the Court’s ability 
to resolve their disputes. In particular, we are pleased to 
see that States continue to refer disputes to the Court. 
The  number  of  cases  currently  pending  on  its  docket 
is  a  reflection  of  the  esteem  in  which  States  hold  the 
Court.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  mechanisms 
for  the  international  judicial  settlement  of  disputes 
on  a  specialized  or  regional  basis,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  continues  to  attract  a  wide  range  of 
cases, covering many areas. The list of cases before the 
Court includes cases pertaining to the demarcation of 
boundaries, such as Peru v Chile.
The  African  Group  appreciates  the  fact  that  the 
Court  set  itself  a  particularly  demanding  schedule  of 
hearings and deliberations in order that it might consider 
several  cases  at  the  same  time  and  deal  as  promptly 
as  possible  with  incidental  proceedings,  which  are 
tending to grow in number, including requests for the 
indication of preliminary and provisional measures. In 
this connection, on 3 March 2014 the Court issued its 
order  on  the  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures submitted by Timor-Leste in December 2013 
in the case concerning Questions relating to the Seizure 
and Detention of Certain Documents and Data (Timor-
Leste  v  Australia).  The  Court  found  that  it  had  prima 
facie jurisdiction to rule on the merits of the case in the 
light of the declarations made by both parties in terms 
of Article 36, paragraph 2 of the Statute of the Court. 
The  Court  also  found  that  there  was  a  link  between 
the  rights  claimed  and  the  provisional  measures  that 
were  requested  by  Timor-Leste.  Such  measures  were 
aimed at preventing Australia’s further access to seized 
material.  The  Court  concluded  that  the  conditions 
required by the Statute had been met for it to indicate 
provisional measures because there was still a risk of 
irreparable prejudice.
The African Group is of the view that the Australia 
v Japan case contributes to the body of law governing 
the  environment,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  law 
of  the  sea.  Australia  commenced  the  proceedings  on 
31  May  2010.  On  31  March  2014,  the  International 
14/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
Court of Justice delivered its judgment, and, as far as 
the Court’s jurisdiction was concerned, the Court found 
that  since  there  was  no  maritime  delimitation  dispute 
between  the  parties  in  the  Antarctic  Ocean  and  since 
the  current  dispute  was  only  about  the  compatibility 
or not of Japan’s whaling activities with its obligations 
under the Convention, Japan’s objection to the Court’s 
jurisdiction could not be upheld.
The  Court  further  found  that  the  Japanese  Whale 
Research Program under Special Permit in the Antarctic 
involved activities that could broadly be characterized as 
scientific research, but that the evidence does not establish 
that  the  programme’s  design  and  implementation  are 
reasonable in relation to achieving its stated objectives. 
The Court therefore concluded that the special permits 
granted by Japan for the killing, taking and treating of 
whales in connection with the Japanese Whale Research 
Program under Special Permit in the Antarctic were not 
for  purposes  of  scientific  research  pursuant  to  article 
VIII, paragraph 1, of the International Convention for 
the Regulation of Whaling.
An interesting procedural development was that, by 
an order of 6 February 2013, the Court authorized New 
Zealand  to  intervene  in  the  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic 
(Australia  v.  Japan)  case.  Therefore,  on  20  November 
2012, New Zealand filed with the Registry a declaration 
of  intervention  in  the  case.  In  order  to  avail  itself  of 
the  right  of  intervention  conferred  by  article  63  of 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  New  Zealand  relied  on  its 
status  as  a  party  to  the  International  Convention  for 
the  Regulation  of  Whaling.  It  contended  that  as  a 
party to the Convention, it had a direct interest in the 
construction that might be placed upon the Convention 
by the Court in its decision in those proceedings. New 
Zealand underlined in its declaration that it did not seek 
to  be  a  party  to  the  proceedings  and  confirmed  that 
by  availing  itself  of  its  right  to  intervene,  it  accepted 
that the construction given by the judgment in the case 
would be equally binding upon it.
The  importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions referred to the International Court of Justice 
cannot  be  overstated  in  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is therefore rather disappointing 
that  during  the  period  under  review,  no  requests  for 
advisory opinions were made.
Mr.  Norman  (Canada):  On  behalf  of  Canada, 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  (CANZ),  I  would  like  to 
thank the President of the International Court of Justice, 
Judge Tomka, for his report on the work of the Court 
over the past year. As countries that firmly believe in 
the rule of law, the CANZ countries have always been 
strong supporters of the International Court of Justice. 
We have tremendous respect for the work of the Court 
and for the quality and dedication of its judges.
its  vital  position 
Once  again,  the  Court  has  seen  a  sustained 
caseload,  demonstrating 
the 
peaceful resolution of disputes. The 13 cases currently 
before  the  Court  come  from  around  the  world  and 
represent a diversity of subject matter. CANZ welcomes 
the  willingness  of  States  to  turn  to  the  Court  for  the 
peaceful settlement of their disputes.
in 
Our  confidence  in  the  Court  is  reflected  in  our 
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction. 
CANZ believes that wider acceptance of the compulsory 
jurisdiction would enable the Court to fulfil its role more 
effectively  by  reducing  jurisdictional  issues,  thereby 
allowing the Court to focus more of its attention on the 
substance of disputes. In line with resolution 68/116, we 
encourage Member States that have not yet done so to 
accept the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction.
(spoke in French)
On  6  November,  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  will  vote  to  fill  five 
vacancies  for  the  Court’s  judges.  Our  three  countries 
unreservedly  endorse  the  candidature  of  Mr.  James 
Crawford for one of the two vacancies in the Group of 
Western European and other States. He is a distinguished 
international lawyer who would be a valuable addition 
to the Court. He was nominated 27 times in the national 
groups’  lists  of  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration, 
which  is  remarkable.  It  is  also  a  telling  indication  of 
the esteem in which he is held in the international legal 
arena.  We  therefore  encourage  all  Members  of  the 
United Nations to support Mr. Crawford.
We expect that the work programme of the Court 
in the year ahead will remain full, as States continue to 
reaffirm their confidence in the Court. For our part, our 
countries  hope  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
will continue to play its important role in the peaceful 
settlement of international disputes.
Mr.  Zellweger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Over  the  past  20  years,  the  work  of  the  International 
Court of Justice has increased considerably. A growing 
number of States recognize the practical and effective 
means that the Court offers for the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  Indeed,  because  of  its  unique  mandate, 
14-59630
15/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
its  universal  character,  the  authority  and  finality  of 
its  decisions  and  the  consensus-based  nature  of  its 
jurisdiction,  the  Court  is  the  ideal  framework  for  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes between States.
In order to strengthen that momentum and encourage 
even more States to recognize the Court’s jurisdiction, 
on  24  September  2012,  during  the  Assembly’s  High-
level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and 
International  Levels  (A/67/PVs.3-5.),  Switzerland  and 
the  Netherlands  undertook  to  draw  up,  with  the  help 
of  the  Secretariat,  a  practical  guide  highlighting  the 
Court’s  benefits  and  explaining  the  various  options 
available  for  recognizing  its  jurisdiction.  The  United 
Kingdom,  Uruguay,  Lithuania,  Japan  and  Botswana 
subsequently  joined  that  project.  Since  then,  the 
practical  guide  has  been  completed  and  was  sent  this 
week to all permanent missions in New York.
jurisdiction: 
States  have  three  options  for  recognizing  the 
Court’s 
first,  unilaterally  accepting 
its  jurisdiction;  secondly,  accepting  its  jurisdiction 
by  treaty;  or  thirdly,  referring  a  specific  dispute  to 
the  Court  by  compromise.  Those  three  options  are 
explained in detail in the brochure. Specific examples 
are given in the form of model declarations, articles and 
compromise clauses that can be adopted and adapted by 
States as they see fit. The guide is practical in nature. 
It is mainly addressed to States for their diplomats or 
any  member  of  a  delegation  negotiating  international 
treaties.  We  hope  that  it  will  help  to  remove  certain 
technical  obstacles  to  the  recognition  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction.  We  hope  that  the  guide  will  further 
enhance the Court’s importance and its contribution to 
a more just and peaceful international order.
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Cuba  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Cuba  welcomes  the  introduction  of  the  valuable 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/69/4). 
We  would  also  like  to  express  to  the  Assembly 
our  commitment  to  the  strict  implementation  of 
international 
the  peaceful  resolution  of 
international disputes.
law  and 
My  delegation  recognizes  the  work  performed  by 
the Court since its inception. Its decisions and advisory 
opinions  have  been  of  particular  importance,  not 
only for the cases under consideration but also for the 
development of public international law. The volume of 
cases brought to the Court, many of which originated 
the Latin American and Caribbean region, demonstrates 
the  importance  that  the  international  community 
attaches  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  The 
Republic of Cuba advocates for the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes  in  accordance  with  Article  33,  paragraph 
1, of the United Nations Charter, and has declared its 
acceptance  of  and  prior  consent  to  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
Cuba regrets the existence of unexecuted judgments 
of  the  Court,  in  clear  violation  of  Article  94  of  the 
Charter,  which  requires  each  Member  of  the  United 
Nations  to  undertake  to  comply  with  the  decision  of 
the International Court of Justice in any case in which 
it  is  a  party.  In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Cuba  is 
concerned that the effectiveness and enforceability of 
the judgments of the Court can be reasonably open to 
criticism when some countries do not even acknowledge 
judgments that are unfavourable to them. Unfortunately, 
the refusal of those countries to comply with judgments 
and  their  obstruction  of  United  Nations  mechanisms 
designed  to  enforce  judgments,  such  as  through  the 
use of the privilege of the veto in the Security Council, 
show how imperfect the mechanisms are for executing 
the Court’s decisions.
The  foregoing  shows  that  the  need  to  reform  the 
United  Nations  system  in  order  to  give  developing 
countries  greater  assurance  in  confronting  powerful 
nations also applies to the International Court of Justice. 
My  delegation  considers  it  useful  for  the  Court  to 
demonstrate a critical balance, in which its relationship 
to  the  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
Security Council, is taken into account.
Many significant cases have been taken up by the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  Cuba  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  unanimous  advisory  opinion  of 
the Court issued on 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the 
Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. In that opinion, the 
International Court of Justice arrived at the conclusion 
that there is an obligation to pursue in good faith and 
bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations  leading  to  nuclear 
disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective 
international  control.  In  that  regard,  as  has  already 
been stated in this Hall, Cuba urges that the advisory 
opinion of 9 July 2004, entitled Legal Consequences of 
the Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, be fully respected and calls upon all States to 
respect and guarantee respect for the provisions of the 
Court on that important matter.
16/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
Cuba  attaches  great  importance  to  the  allocation 
of  the  necessary  budgetary  resources  so  that  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  can  properly  perform 
its work of peacefully settling conflicts that fall under 
its  jurisdiction.  Cuba  calls  for  working  to  make  sure 
that  those  resources  reach  the  Court  in  a  timely  and 
appropriate manner.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  wishes  to  thank  the  Court 
for  publications  made  available  to  Governments  and 
for  online  resources.  They  are  valuable  material  for 
the  study  and  dissemination  of  international  law,  in 
particular  for  developing  countries,  some  of  which 
often  see  themselves  deprived  of  information  on  the 
progress  of  international  law  owing  to  outdated  and 
absurd embargo policies that have been overwhelmingly 
rejected by the international community.
Cuba  is  a  country  with  peaceful  aspirations.  It 
respects  international  law  and  has  always  faithfully 
fulfilled  its  international  obligations  under  treaties  to 
which it is a party. I would like to take this opportunity 
to  reiterate  our  commitment  to  peace.  The  events 
that  have  taken  place  in  recent  years  conclusively 
demonstrate the importance of the International Court 
of  Justice  as  an  international  jurisdictional  body  that 
settles,  in  accordance  with  international  law  and 
peacefully and in good faith, disputes with the greatest 
impact for the international community.
Mrs. Miculescu (Romania): At the outset, I would 
like to thank the President of the International Court of 
Justice, Judge Tomka, for introducing the report on the 
work of the Court (A/69/4), which has given us a useful 
insight into the Court’s activity during the judicial year 
2013-2014.
States  submitting  their  disputes  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  expect  the  main  judicial  organ  of  the 
United Nations to reach a decision after a very careful 
assessment  of  the  relevant  law  and  facts.  Those 
expectations were fully met in the case of the judgments 
delivered by the Court during the period under review. 
We can say that its activity has increased in scope and 
degree of complexity, and we commend the Court for 
its tremendous work. The Court’s current docket bears 
witness to the consolidated trust placed by States in the 
Court.
My  country  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Court 
and  is  committed  to  the  settlement  of  all  disputes  in 
accordance  with  international  law.  Romania  has  been 
significantly involved with the work of the Court in the 
past.  A  known  example  is  the  application  submitted 
in  connection  with  the  delimitation  of  the  maritime 
spaces between Romania and Ukraine in the Black Sea 
in the Maritime Delimitation in the Black Sea (Romania 
v.  Ukraine)  case.  On  3  February,  an  event  marking 
the  five  years  since  the  delivery  of  the  judgment  in 
that  case  was  organized  in  Bucharest,  which  enjoyed 
the  presence  of  Judge  Keith  along  with  several  other 
leading personalities in the field of international law.
Romania  intends  to  continue  and  strengthen  its 
engagement  with  the  Court.  In  that  respect,  I  would 
like to briefly present the endeavours undertaken so far 
as regards the possible acceptance by Romania of the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. In the report, as the Assembly knows, the Court 
noted with appreciation that the General Assembly, in 
its resolution 68/116, called upon States that have not yet 
made a declaration recognizing the Court’s compulsory 
jurisdiction  to  consider  doing  so.  Romania  is  indeed 
considering joining the ranks of the countries that have 
already made such a declaration. Romanian authorities 
have taken several steps in that regard.
At the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
of Romania, a public debate was launched last year on 
the possibility of Romania’s accepting the compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  That  public  discussion 
showed that there was general support for the initiative 
among the Romanian authorities, experts in the field of 
international law and the general public. Following the 
conclusion  of  the  public  debate,  a  draft  law  on  filing 
a declaration accepting the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the Court was submitted to one of the chambers of our 
national  Parliament  and  is  currently  being  examined 
by  the  other  chamber,  namely,  the  Senate.  There  is 
therefore  a  good  chance  that,  at  the  time  of  delivery 
of the next annual report of the International Court of 
Justice, Romania will already be among the States that 
have accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, 
which is naturally further proof of our strong support 
for the Court.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Romania’s 
firm  belief  that  strict  compliance  with  the  norms 
of  international  law  is  a  prerequisite  for  the  proper 
functioning of international society. That vision is best 
reflected  in  the  words  of  former  Foreign  Minister  of 
Romania and former President of the League of Nations, 
Nicolae  Titulescu.  Inscribed  beneath  his  effigy  at  the 
Peace Palace in The Hague are his words: “It is in the 
14-59630
17/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
peace  created  by  legal  order  that  man  can  fulfil  his 
destiny”.
(spoke 
(Sudan) 
Mr.  Saeed 
in  Arabic):  The 
Sudan  joins  its  voice  to  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement, and of South Africa on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  contained  in  document 
A/69/4. We would also like to thank the President of the 
Court, Judge Peter Tomka, for his presentation of the 
report,  which  reflects  the  activities  and  deliberations 
undertaken by the Court in the judicial year 2013-2014. 
My  delegation  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the 
role  played  by  the  Court  as  part  of  its  duties  under 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, to strengthen the 
rule  of  law  internationally  through  its  judgments  and 
legal  opinions,  which  also  make  a  vital  contribution 
promoting the peaceful settlement of disputes.
The role of the International Court of Justice and its 
numerous activities require that Member States provide 
more political support and ensure that sufficient funds 
are  provided  to  enable  the  Court  to  undertake  the 
duties  assigned  to  it.  The  discussion  of  the  annual 
report  provides  a  good  opportunity  for  the  General 
Assembly to reiterate the importance of the role of the 
Court and to extend its support. The large number of 
cases referred to the Court by States shows that there 
is growing confidence in the Court and in its ability to 
resolve  disputes  with  independence  and  integrity  and 
in a way that is acceptable to all of the parties to the 
disputes.
The Sudan encourages the Court to pursue measures 
to strengthen its capacities and its effectiveness to deal 
with  the  great  and  increasing  number  of  cases  and 
responsibilities, in particular to conclude proceedings 
quickly. My delegation also encourages Member States 
that  have  not  yet  recognized  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court to consider doing so and take steps to contribute 
to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  internationally  and 
enable the Court to undertake its duties in accordance 
with the Charter.
The  Security  Council  has  not  requested  any 
advisory  opinions  from  the  Court  since  1970.  The 
Sudan urges the Council to take advantage of the Court 
- as the principal judicial organ of the United Nations 
and  as  a  source  of  advisory  opinions  regarding  the 
interpretation  of  the  principles  of  international  law  - 
by tapping into the Court’s programmes and activities. 
We  also  urge  the  General  Assembly  and  specialized 
agencies to request advisory opinions from the Court, 
especially regarding the interpretation of international 
law on their programmes and activities. 
In conclusion, the Sudan reiterates the importance 
of the Court. We support its role so it can exercise its 
responsibilities as required.
Mr. De Vega (Philippines): At the outset, we thank 
President  Peter  Tomka  and  his  team  at  The  Hague 
for  their  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of  the 
International Court of Justice (A/69/4) in the past year.
The Philippines associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Since  its  creation,  68  years  ago,  the  Court  has 
continued to play a vital role in international relations. 
As the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, 
the  Court  resolves  disputes  that  cannot  otherwise  be 
resolved  by,  or  through,  the  political  organs  of  the 
United Nations. Under Article 38 of the Statute of the 
Court, those are disputes that are capable of settlement 
through the application of the sources of international 
law - treaties, international custom, general principles 
of law - and, as subsidiary sources, judicial decisions 
and the teachings of the most highly qualified publicists.
Two  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  held  its  first-
ever High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law. It resulted 
in a consensus Declaration of the High-level Meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National  and  International  Levels  (resolution  67/1). 
That  document  recognizes 
international 
community has the institutions, working methods and 
relationships to make the rule of law relevant to peace 
and  security,  human  rights  and  development.  One  of 
those  institutions  is  none  other  than  the  International 
Court  of  Justice.  Paragraph  31  of  the  Declaration 
recognizes the invaluable contribution of the Court in 
promoting the rule of law. The Philippines reaffirms its 
support for the Declaration, and we affirm our duty to 
comply with the decisions of the Court in contentious 
cases. 
that 
the 
Article 1, paragraph 1, of chapter I of the Charter of 
the United Nations reminds us of our peremptory duty,
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
18/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace.”
That  is  the  very  rationale  for  the  1982  Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes (resolution 37/10), whose thirtieth anniversary 
we  commemorated 
two  years  ago.  The  Manila 
Declaration was negotiated and adopted by the General 
Assembly  during  the  Cold  War,  when  non-aligned 
countries  were  seeking  to  consolidate  their  political 
and  economic  independence.  The  Manila  Declaration 
supported  their  aspirations  by  articulating  the  norms 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  as  outlined  in 
Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations.
From  the  Corfu  Channel  case  in  1947  to  the 
adoption of the Manila Declaration in 1982, a span of 
35  years,  the  Court  disposed  of  49  contentious  cases. 
Since  1982,  however,  the  caseload  of  the  Court  has 
increased,  as  it  disposed  of  more  than  80  contentious 
cases in a comparably shorter period of 32 years. In the 
period under review, the Court was seized of seven new 
contentious cases, bringing its docket to 13 cases — or 
actually now 14, as we have just learned from President 
Tomka. 
The  sovereign  parties  to  those  cases  come  from 
all  over  the  world,  half  of  them  from  Latin  America. 
Yesterday, at an event co-organized by Mexico and the 
American  Society  of  International  Law,  we  learned 
of  ideas  as  to  why  Latin  American  countries  repose 
great  trust  in  international  adjudication,  including  by 
the Court. We thereby learned how Latin America as a 
group has contributed to the progressive development 
of international law. It is an example that we believe the 
rest of the world should follow.
That ever-increasing confidence, especially among 
developing countries, in the capabilities, credibility and 
impartiality of the Court to settle disputes exclusively 
by peaceful means is not unrelated to the norms, values 
and aspirations articulated in the Manila Declaration. 
The most fundamental of those is the non-use or threat 
of use of force. After all, the Manila Declaration reflects 
the  international  community’s  increasing  reliance  on 
the rule of law as a cornerstone not only of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes, but also of the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  Only  respect  for  the 
rule of law at the international level can guarantee the 
order and stability that we desire and deserve. That is 
how  we  contribute  to  the  progressive  development  of 
international law.
The  mandate  and  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
have  become  sharper  over  the  years.  The  creation  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  specialized 
dispute  settlement  mechanisms  like  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Appellate Body 
of  the  World  Trade  Organization  does  not  make  the 
Court  any  less  important  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
On the contrary, the contemporary international legal 
architecture  only  strengthens  the  Court  as  the  only 
forum for resolving justiciable disputes between States 
concerning the vast field of general international law. 
As a matter of fact, the Court is still seized of disputes 
concerning  genocide,  territorial  and  maritime  issues, 
environmental  damage  and  the  conservation  of  living 
resources.
If there is anything that the Charter of the United 
Nations and the Statute, jurisprudence and experience 
of the International Court of Justice all teach us, it is 
that smaller nations, if their cause is just, should have 
no fear of the big Powers. It is that, through the work of 
the Court, the rule of law in international relations has 
a  chance  to  prevail.  The  Philippines  therefore  renews 
the call for Member States that have not yet done so to 
accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
Finally,  we  also  call  on  the  Security  Council  to 
seriously  consider  Article  96  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  make  greater  use  of  the  Court  as 
a source of advisory opinions and of interpretation of 
the  relevant  norms  of  international  law,  particularly 
on the most current and controversial issues affecting 
international peace and security.
Mr.  Diener  Sala  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Mexico  wishes  to  express  its  deep 
gratitude  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the 
arduous  work  it  has  carried  out  this  year,  as  well  as 
to thank its President, Judge Tomka, for presenting the 
Court’s report (A/69/4).
The  important  and  intensive  work  carried  out 
by  the  Court  over  the  past  year  demonstrates  the 
international  community’s  confidence  in  it  as  the 
principal  international  judicial  organ.  The  Court’s 
strength is seen in its universal calling - the parties to 
disputes represent all regional groups and continents - 
in States’ use of the various procedural means set out 
in  the  Statute,  and  in  the  diversity  of  the  substantive 
matters at issue in the disputes.
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  would  like  to  point 
out  that  of  the  17  cases  on  the  list  of  cases  heard  by 
14-59630
19/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
the  Court  during  the  period  covered  in  the  report,  8 
involved States from Latin America and the Caribbean. 
One of them was resolved by the Court and another was 
withdrawn by the States that brought the proceedings. 
That is a testament to the commitment our region has 
towards  compliance  with  international  law  and  the 
principle  that  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes is absolute.
like 
to  emphasize 
My  delegation  would 
the 
great  legal  value  of  the  Court’s  rulings,  both  for 
States  parties  to  the  action  and  for  the  international 
community  as  a  whole,  given  that  its  jurisprudence 
serves  as  an  auxiliary  source  of  primary  importance 
for determining the validity and content of norms. The 
Court has an essential role to play in the development of 
international  law,  particularly  in  leading  the  dialogue 
with  other  legal  bodies,  which  enriches  international 
law and helps prevent its fragmentation.
From an objective perspective, the Court’s work has 
become more complex, since States repeatedly resort to 
all the other procedural alternatives available under the 
Statute, such as requests for provisional measures and 
interpretation of judgments. The Court’s determination 
on  those  requests  are  critical  to  preventing  the 
escalation  or  emergence  of  new  disputes.  That  was 
made clear in the cases Certain Activities carried out by 
Nicaragua in the Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua)
and Questions relating to the Seizure and Detention of 
Certain Documents and Data (Timor-Leste v. Australia), 
as well as the interpretation that the Court provided of 
the its Judgment of 15 June 1962 in the Case  concerning 
the Temple of Preah Vihear (Cambodia v. Thailand).
Also, from a substantive point of view, the Court, 
in  its  two  judgments  handed  down  during  the  period 
covered by the report, addressed important issues such 
as  compliance  with  treaty  obligations  with  respect  to 
the conservation of living resources, in particular in the 
light of the principle good faith, as we saw in the case 
Whaling  in  the  Antarctic  (Australia  v.  Japan).  We  also 
saw that in the Court’s settlement of the case Maritime 
Dispute  (Peru  v.  Chile),  which  complements 
the 
extensive jurisprudence it has generated on the issue.
must also provide the Court with the resources required 
for the celebration of its seventieth anniversary in 2016.
Mexico  would  also  like  to  express  its  sincere 
appreciation to the Registrar of the Court, Mr Philippe 
Couvreur,  for  his  high-quality  performance  in  the 
three  dimensions  of  his  role  -  legal,  diplomatic  and 
administrative. We also express our appreciation to the 
Carnegie Endowment for housing the Court in the Peace 
Palace in The Hague. Likewise, Mexico recognizes the 
work  carried  out  by  Mexican  judges  throughout  the 
Court’s history.
I wish to conclude my remarks by calling on those 
States that have not done so to accept the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court, in accordance with Article 36, 
paragraph 2, of the Statute, thereby strengthening the 
rule of law at the international level to ensure that all 
States have access to a robust judicial mechanism for 
the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Mr.  Plasai  (Thailand):  It  is  my  honour  to  deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Kingdom of Thailand on 
this agenda item. At the outset, I would like to thank 
President  Tomka  for  his  able  presidency  and  for  his 
thorough  report  on  the  activities  of  the  International 
Court of Justice during the past year.
The Court has played an active role in addressing 
disputes  between  States  on  diverse  issues.  For  this 
reporting  period,  the  issues  ranged  from  judgment 
the 
interpretation 
preservation  of  wildlife 
the 
environment. With such a diversity of cases, the report 
reflects  the  remarkable  efforts  made  by  the  Court  in 
managing its docket efficiently and expeditiously.
to  maritime  delimitation,  from 
integrity  of 
the 
to 
This year’s report includes a case to which Thailand 
was  a  party,  namely  the  case  concerning  the  Request 
for Interpretation of the Judgment of 15 June 1962 in the 
case concerning the Temple of Preah Vihear (Cambodia 
v. Thailand) (Cambodia v. Thailand) - “Phra Viharn” in 
the Thai language. The case represents what is probably 
the first time that the judges on the bench interpreted a 
judgment in which none of them had taken part in the 
original proceedings. 
Mexico  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude  to  the 
General Assembly for its willingness to authorize new 
posts and other budgetary requests made by the Court. 
We  call  on  the  Assembly  to  continue  providing  the 
Court with the tools it needs to properly carry out its 
duties as the Organization’s principal judicial organ. It 
Yet  a  reading  of  the  interpretive  Judgment  of 
11 November 2013 shows that the Court took the time 
and made the effort to carefully and thoroughly review 
the  records  of  the  original  proceedings.  Indeed,  the 
Court underlines, in paragraph 69 of the Judgment, that 
the pleadings and the record of the oral proceedings in 
20/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
1962 are “relevant to the interpretation of the Judgment, 
as they show what evidence was, or was not, before the 
Court and how the issues before it were formulated by 
each Party”.
Overall, I am pleased to say that the Judgment of 
11 November 2013 is considered to be based on well-
grounded  reasoning  and  consistent  with  the  Court’s 
past jurisprudence. It also gives importance to the need 
for  both  countries  to  hold  talks.  The  Judgment  helps 
clarify  several  points  of  law  that  are  crucial  and  thus 
will  constitute  a  clearer  and  useful  basis  for  future 
consultation  or  negotiation  between  the  two  parties, 
both for the matter decided by the Court in 1962 - that 
is,  as  the  Court  puts  it,  sovereignty  over  a  defined 
area of territory - and beyond. The Judgment has also 
contributed in a positive manner to various aspects of 
the existing jurisprudence on judgment interpretation, 
some of which I would like to mention for the record.
First, in interpreting the 1962 Judgment, the Court 
reaffirmed  that  the  principle  of  non  ultra  petita  must 
be respected in the context of judgment interpretation. 
In  other  words,  the  Court  reaffirmed  that  questions 
that  were  not  properly  submitted  by  the  applicant 
to  the  Court,  and  therefore  not  decided  by  the  Court 
in  the  original  proceedings,  cannot  be  subject  to 
interpretation.
Secondly,  the  Court  also  reaffirmed  that  the 
principle  of  res  judicata  must  be  respected  in  an 
interpretation  proceeding,  namely,  points  not  decided 
with binding force in the original proceedings cannot 
be  the  subject  of  interpretation.  Accordingly,  the 
Court has kept strictly within the limits of the original 
Judgment and refrained from tackling questions that it 
did not decide in 1962.
Thirdly, the Court considers that the scope of the 
res judicata of the 1962 Judgment corresponds to that of 
the subject matter of the original proceedings - namely 
and exclusively, sovereignty over the Temple of Preah 
Vihear and the promontory on which it stands - and to 
no other issue.
The Temple interpretation case remains an important 
issue  in  Thailand.  The  level  of  public  awareness  of 
the  case  and  the  high  demand  for  information  and 
explanation have been unprecedented. During the oral 
proceedings and the reading of the Judgment last year, 
the Thai public followed the Court’s proceedings with 
huge  interest  and  in  real  time  through  live  television 
broadcast  nationwide  from  The  Hague  to  Thailand, 
with  simultaneous  interpretation  into  Thai.  Almost 
never in Thai history has an official international event 
generated such public interest. In the process, needless 
to  say,  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
has  been  underlined  and  has  become  better  known 
and understood in my country. It is our hope that the 
Judgment  will  contribute  to  good  neighbourliness 
between  Thailand  and  Cambodia,  two  countries  that 
share a common destiny as brothers in the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  my 
appreciation  to  the  judges  and  the  Registry  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  for  their  efficiency 
and  professionalism,  as  well  as  their  contribution 
to  international  justice.  It  has  been  an  honour  and  a 
privilege for me to serve as the agent of the Kingdom of 
Thailand in this case.
Mr. Alabrune (France) (spoke in French): I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice for his very informative presentation of the 
report on the Court’s activity for the past year (A/69/4).
As the list of cases on its docket serves to highlight, 
the Court’s litigation activity has increased remarkably 
over  the  past  20  years,  testifying  as  much  to  States’ 
confidence  in  its  jurisdiction  as  to  the  role  played  by 
the Court, as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations, in the quest to settle disputes peacefully and 
strengthen the rule of law.
In  that  regard,  if  the  Court’s  judgments  and 
decisions  are  accepted  by  the  parties  because  of  the 
authority  of  the res judicata  attached  to  them,  States’ 
respect  for  and  willingness  to  comply  with  them  are 
also a function of the quality of the Court’s decisions. 
The Court’s judgments and decisions can thus help ease 
political  tensions  and  enable  States  to  find  solutions 
that  other  peaceful  ways  of  resolving  disputes  do  not 
offer.  The  Court’s  Judgment  of  11  November  2013  in 
the  case  concerning  the  Request  for  Interpretation  of 
the Judgment of 15 June 1962 in the Case concerning 
the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand) 
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand)  is  an  illustration  of  that. 
The  decision  should  help  calm  the  territorial  dispute 
between  Cambodia  and  Thailand  and  enable  them  to 
find a solution to the issue of delimiting their common 
border in that area.
Border disputes are an important part of the business 
of the Court, and over the past decade, maritime disputes 
14-59630
21/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
have  become  increasingly  important  in  that  category. 
One  example  is  the  case  Maritime  Dispute (Peru  v. 
Chile),  on  which  the  Court  delivered  its  Judgment  on 
27  January  2014.  Other  cases,  still  pending,  include 
that of Maritime Delimitation in the Caribbean Sea and 
the Pacific Ocean (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua), Alleged 
Violations of Sovereign Rights and Maritime Spaces in 
the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Colombia), Question 
of  the  Delimitation  of  the  Continental  Shelf  between 
Nicaragua  and  Colombia  beyond  200  nautical  miles 
from  the  Nicaraguan  Coast  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia)
and  the  case  recently  instituted  by  Somalia  against 
Kenya  on  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Indian  Ocean 
(Somalia  v.  Kenya), which  concernins  the  two  States’ 
common maritime boundary.
In addition, this year has once again enabled us to 
appreciate  the  diversity  of  areas  that  the  Court  ends 
up  dealing  with.  Among  the  disputes  on  the  Court’s 
docket,  four  touch  on  aspects  of  the  obligation  to 
negotiate - the three applications of the Marshall Islands 
for proceedings having to do with negotiations to end 
the  nuclear  arms  race  and  nuclear  disarmament,  and 
Bolivia’s case against Chile in Obligation to Negotiate 
Access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean  (Bolivia  v.  Chile).  The 
obligation to negotiate is thus presented as one of the 
cornerstones of public international law, cutting across 
the various branches of the law.
This  year  also  featured  a  number  of  applications 
instituting proceedings based on article 38, paragraph 
5  of  the  Rules  of  Court.  This  year,  in  keeping  with  a 
basic trend, States again made particularly full use of 
incidental proceedings, with the Court handing down 13 
orders, as compared with three judgments. While that 
has enabled the Court to clarify the terms of its judicial 
function, it has also helped to lengthen proceedings and 
increase the Court’s workload.
Overall,  the  special  appeal  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  testament  to  the  quality  of  the 
motives supporting its judgments and the well-balanced 
solutions that result.
I would like to take this opportunity to once more 
express to the Court, on behalf of France, our gratitude 
for its work, which this year, as in the past, continues to 
reflect its sustained and effective action.
Ms.  Chadha  (India):  I  would  like  to  join  other 
delegations in thanking Judge Tomka, President of the 
International Court of Justice, for presenting us with the 
Court’s comprehensive report on the judicial activities 
of the Court over the past year (A/69/4).
The Court, being the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, is entrusted with the task of peacefully 
resolving disputes between States, which is important 
to  the  fulfilment  of  one  of  the  core  purposes  of  the 
United Nations: the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  Since  its  establishment,  the  Court  has 
accomplished  that  task  admirably  and  has  acquired  a 
well-deserved  reputation  as  an  impartial  institution 
maintaining the highest legal standards in accordance 
with  its  mandate  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, of which the Statute of the Court is an integral 
part.
As  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter  states,  one  of  the 
primary  goals  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  establish 
conditions  under  which 
justice  and  respect  for 
international  obligations  can  be  maintained.  The 
International Court of Justice, as the only Court with 
jurisdiction  in  general  international  law,  is  uniquely 
placed to play that role. 
The report of the Court illustrates the importance 
that States attach to the Courtand the confidence they 
repose  in  it,  as  is  clearly  evidenced  by  the  number, 
nature  and  variety  of  cases  that  the  Court  deals  with 
and  by  the  ability  of  the  Court  to  deal  with  complex 
aspects of public international law.
The cases before the Court involve a wide variety 
of  subject  matter,  such  as  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes, environmental damage and the conservation 
of  living  resources,  violations  of  territorial  integrity, 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights,  genocide,  the  interpretation  and  application 
of  international  conventions  and  treaties,  and  the 
interpretation of the Court’s judgments.
The 
judgments  delivered  by 
the  Court  have 
played  an  important  role  in  the  interpretation  and 
clarification  of  the  rules  of  international  law,  as  well 
as in the progressive development and codification of 
international  law.  In  the  performance  of  its  judicial 
functions, the Court has remained sensitive to political 
realities  and  the  sentiments  of  States  while  acting 
strictly in accordance with the provisions of the United 
Nations  Charter,  its  own  Statute  and  other  applicable 
rules of international law.
The  acceptance  of  the  compulsory  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  is  a  means  to  secure  and  promote  the 
22/24 
14-59630
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.33
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  Its  foundation  lies  in 
the confidence expressed by States in the rule of law at 
the international level. States that have reposed faith in 
the system under Article 36, paragraph 2 of the Statute 
have done so for legal disputes that may arise between 
the parties inter se. This is confirmed by Article 59 of 
the  Statute,  which  clearly  provides  that  the  decision 
of the Court has no binding force except between the 
parties and in respect of that particular case. Therefore, 
the  filing  of  cases  that  seek  universal  objectives  in 
complete  disregard  of  this  basic  premise  raises  very 
serious  issues  for  countries  such  as  India  that  have 
accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
As regards the Court’s docket, we note that during 
the  2013-2014  judicial  year,  the  Court  delivered  three 
judgments,  held  public  hearings  in  four  cases  and 
handed down 13 orders. During this period, the Court 
was  seized  of  seven  new  contentious  cases.  The  total 
number of contentious cases currently before the Court, 
as clarified by President Tomka, now stands at 14.
The  Court’s  second  function  -  that  of  providing 
advisory  opinion  on  legal  questions  referred  to  it  by 
organs of the United Nations and specialized agencies - 
adds to its important role of clarifying key international 
legal issues. The report of the Court rightly points out in 
paragraph 17 that “everything the Court does is aimed 
at promoting the rule of law”, in particular through its 
judgments and the advisory opinions.
We  appreciate  the  Court’s  efforts  to  ensure  the 
greatest  possible  global  awareness  of  its  decisions 
through  its  publications,  multimedia  offerings  and 
through  its  website,  which  now  features  the  Court’s 
entire jurisprudence as well as that of its predecessor, 
the Permanent Court of International Justice.
We  are  glad  to  note  that  the  Court  is  planning  to 
celebrate its seventieth anniversary in April 2016 and is 
organizing a number of events on that occasion.
Finally,  India  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  support  for 
the  Court  and  acknowledges  the  importance  that  the 
international  community  attaches  to  the  work  of  the 
Court in the advancement of international justice.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peru 
welcomes the annual report of the International Court 
of Justice to the General Assembly for the period from 
1 August 2013 to 31 July 2014 (A/69/4).
My delegation wishes to begin by underscoring the 
crucial role played by the International Court of Justice 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
system for the peaceful settlement of disputes under the 
Charter. Its contribution to the promotion of the rule of 
law has been vital.
Peru  wishes  also  to  recall  that  in  addition  to  the 
valuable  work  done  by  the  Court  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  inter-State  disputes,  the  Court  may, 
pursuant  to  Article  96  of  the  Charter,  issue  advisory 
opinions  at  the  request  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security  Council  and  other  authorized  bodies  of  the 
United  Nations,  and  specialized  agencies.  There  are 
two  areas  of  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  jurisdiction  in 
contentious proceedings and advisory jurisdiction, and 
the  Court’s  judgments  and  opinions  help  to  promote 
and clarify international law as a genuine path to peace.
Peru is therefore pleased that the General Assembly 
has urged States that have not yet done so to consider 
recognizing  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  pursuant  to 
Article 36, paragraph 2 of its Statute.
Peru also wishes to acknowledge the work carried 
out by the eminent judges of the Court, in particular the 
President and Vice-President, as well as the judges ad 
hoc. Peru welcomes the forthcoming triennial renewal 
of  the  composition  of  the  Court  through  elections 
slated  for  6  November.  Likewise,  we  are  grateful  for 
the intensive work done by the Registry of the Court, in 
particular its Registrar and Deputy Registrar.
The  sustained  high  volume  of  work  at 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  testimony  to  the 
prestige it enjoys as the principal judicial organ of the 
United  Nations.  That  is  explained  by,  inter  alia,  the 
many  measures  taken  in  recent  years  to  enhance  its 
efficiency and enable it to cope with a constant increase 
in  its  workload,  and  to  more  promptly  deal  with  the 
growing number of incidental proceedings, as set out in 
paragraphs 9 and 10 of the report.
Likewise,  Peru  is  pleased  to  note  that  for  the 
biennium  2014-2015,  most  of  the  Court’s  requests 
for  new  posts  and  additional  spending  were  granted. 
My  delegation  expects  to  see  the  same  spirit  reign  in 
the  biennium  2016-2017,  when  we  will  celebrate  the 
seventieth anniversary of the Court.
Finally, as stated by the President of the Republic 
of  Peru,  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  at  the  opening  of 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  my  delegation 
wishes  to  highlight  the  settlement  of  the  maritime 
border dispute with Chile through the judgment of the 
Court handed down on 27 January 2014; we heard the 
14-59630
23/24
A/69/PV.33 
30/10/2014
President of the Court touch on this in his briefing. We 
note also that the enforcement of the judgment was the 
quickest  in  the  history  of  the  Court,  as  both  parties 
had  jointly  pinpointed  the  geographic  coordinates  of 
the maritime border, in accordance with the judgment, 
within  two  months  of  the  ruling.  It  is  for  that  reason 
that the President of Peru said: “In general, the way in 
which  the  entire  case  was  conducted  makes  Peru  and 
Chile an example for the world.” (A/69/PV.9, p. 28).
Mr. Yoshikawa (Japan): At the outset, I would like 
to  thank  Peter  Tomka,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  his  leadership  and  for  his 
comprehensive report on the work of the Court.
As Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan emphasized 
from this rostrum two years in a row, the rule of law is 
one  of  the  most  important  aspects  of  Japan’s  foreign 
policy.  Japan  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
activities  of  the  Court,  the  principal  judicial  organ 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  I  appreciate 
the role it has played to enhance the rule of law in the 
international community.
International  law  provides  the  parties  concerned 
with  a  common 
language.  We  hear  mounting 
expectations  across  the  globe  for  international  law  to 
serve as a device to disentangle the tensions of heated 
controversies.  Cases  referred  to  the  Court  involve  a 
wide  variety  of  subject  matters,  including  territorial 
and  maritime  disputes,  economic  and  environmental 
disputes  and  violations 
international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  Despite  the  fact 
that  the  Court  has  been  dealing  with  more  complex 
cases  in  factual  and  legal  terms,  I  appreciate  that  the 
Court maintains its high-quality work.
related 
to 
Japan  strongly  believes 
that  more  and  more 
countries concerned should recognize the importance of 
international law and make good use of the International 
Court of Justice. For example, universal acceptance of 
the Court’s jurisdiction in accordance with Article 36, 
paragraph 2, of the Court’s Statute would enhance the 
function of the Court. Already in 1958 Japan unilaterally 
accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. The 
situation concerning the acceptance of the jurisdiction 
of the Court is, however, very poor. Only 70 out of the 
entire membership of the United Nations have accepted 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court 
of  Justice.  Looking  at  the  Asia-Pacific  Group,  which 
Japan  belongs  to,  only  7  out  of  54  countries  have 
accepted it. I hope to see more countries, in particular 
members of the Asia-Pacific Group, do so.
the  Handbook  on  Accepting 
In  that  context,  Japan  highly  values  the  recent 
the 
publication  of 
Jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, a copy 
of  which  I  have  with  me.  Let  me  express  my  special 
gratitude to Switzerland for its leadership in compiling 
the handbook. My appreciation also goes to the other 
sponsors, namely the Netherlands, Uruguay, the United 
Kingdom,  Lithuania  and  Botswana.  Japan  is  proud  to 
be among the seven producers.
I would also like to take this opportunity to refer 
to  Japan’s  experience  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  at  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  It  was 
an important year for Japan, as the Court delivered its 
judgment in the case Whaling in the Antarctic (Australia 
v. Japan). Throughout the proceedings before the Court, 
Japan  made  clear  its  position  on  the  issues  involved 
in  the  case  in  full  respect  of  the  procedures.  The 
decision that Japan’s whaling research programme did 
not fall within the relevant article of the International 
Convention  for 
the  Regulation  of  Whaling  was 
disappointing. However, Japan abides by the Judgment 
of  the  Court.  Japan  will  continue  to  pursue  its  policy 
on  the  sustainable  use  of  marine  living  resources  in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  based  upon 
scientific evidence, taking into account the reasoning 
and conclusions contained in the Judgment.
Finally,  I  wish  to  reiterate  Japan’s  unwavering 
support for the International Court of Justice.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
24/24 
14-59630
