United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
26th plenary meeting
Friday, 17 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 62 and 12
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/69/161 
and A/69/163)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/162)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The  President:  Today’s  joint  debate  offers  us 
a  unique  opportunity  to  share  views  on  issues  of 
importance to the African continent, while taking stock 
of the progress made and challenges ahead.
During the high-level panel discussion on the theme 
“The Africa we want”, which launched the Africa-New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  week 
on  13  October,  some  thoughts  on  the  state  of  Africa 
and  its  future  were  shared.  The  important  role  the 
international  community  can  play  towards  the  Africa 
of the future was also highlighted.
When Africa celebrated 50 years since the founding 
of the Organization of African Unity and the African 
Union,  in  May  of  the  past  year,  it  reaffirmed  the 
continent’s  commitment  to  the  African  Renaissance. 
It  also  set  out  to  develop  the  Agenda  2063  Vision,  as 
a  new  50-year  socioeconomic  development  vision 
that  seeks  to  establish  an  integrated,  prosperous  and 
peaceful continent. I am confident in saying that Africa 
is rising and Africa is ready to deliver on its promise. 
The international community has played a crucial role 
in  supporting  Africa’s  growth  and  development,  and 
that partnership remains of critical importance.
Through NEPAD, Africa established a coordinated 
socioeconomic  framework  for  its  development.  As 
noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  important 
progress has been made in the overall implementation 
of NEPAD in several key sectors.
Infrastructure  development  is  an  area  that  will 
facilitate  the  diversification  of  African  economies 
and  unleash  their  full  productive  capacity.  With  the 
adoption  of  NEPAD’s  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  (PIDA)  in  July  2012,  African 
leaders  laid  a  foundation  for  the  development  of 
critical 
infrastructure. 
Africa  needs  hydropower  stations  and  transmission 
lines  to  facilitate  production.  It  needs  roads,  railways 
and  ports  to  facilitate  commerce  and  trade.  It  needs 
core 
technology 
infrastructure to support trade in goods and services, 
as well as governance structures.
information  and  communication 
regional  and  continental 
The  efforts  made  under  NEPAD  in  coordinating 
the development of infrastructure across the continent 
through  PIDA’s  priority  action  are  commendable. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-57494 (E)
*1457494*
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
Over  the  last  12  months,  of  the  51  projects  and 
programmes  envisioned,  16  national  and  regional 
projects  were  identified  as  quick  wins  for  financing 
and implementation. Those projects were subsequently 
showcased at the Dakar Financing Summit for Africa’s 
Infrastructure, held in June.
Growth  in  the  agricultural  sector  has  long  been 
identified  as  a  key  area  of  focus  in  the  development 
transformation of African countries. It is important that 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme continue to receive attention as a guiding 
framework for the development of that sector.
Those  projects  and  others  will  require  enormous 
amounts  of  resources,  but  financing  by  Governments 
alone is not enough. Other sources of funding, especially 
from  the  private  sector,  including  specialized  funds, 
should  be  tapped.  The  Presidential  Infrastructure 
Champion Initiative, adopted to prioritize and fast-track 
the implementation of key regional projects, is a step in 
the right direction. Strengthened bilateral and regional 
cooperation to develop joint cross-border projects will 
also be important going forward.
Improving  access  to  sustainable  sources  of  clean, 
reliable  and  affordable  energy  will  also  be  crucial  to 
Africa’s economic and social development. The United 
Nations  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative,  which 
aims  to  ensure  universal  energy  access  by  2030,  has 
highlighted the importance of access to electricity.
Malaria  remains  one  of  the  most  serious  health 
problems  facing  the  world  today.  According  to  the 
World Health Organization, 80 per cent of the estimated 
207  million  malaria  cases  worldwide  in  2012  were 
in  Africa.  Malaria  is  endemic,  especially  in  tropical 
Africa,  with  an  estimated  90  per  cent  of  the  total 
malaria incidence and deaths occurring there. Pregnant 
women and children are especially at risk.
Since  2000,  when  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
the first resolution on malaria (resolution 55/284), the 
world  has  witnessed  significant  political  commitment 
to the fight against the disease. We should all be proud 
of the fact that, just 10 years after the adoption of the 
resolution, more than 1.1 million deaths from malaria 
were averted.
Our  success  should  not  lead  us  to  complacency. 
We should redouble our efforts on malaria and strive to 
reach our ultimate goal of its total eradication. We must 
press on with conviction and the determination that this 
preventable and treatable disease can be eradicated in 
our lifetime.
Mr.  Msosa  (Malawi):  It  is  my  singular  honour 
and pleasure to deliver this statement on behalf of the 
Group of African States.
This  debate  marks  the  successful  culmination 
of  the  2014  Africa-New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  week,  which  has  truly  raised 
NEPAD’s profile here at the United Nations at a very 
critical juncture, when Member States are preparing to 
undertake the important task of formulating the post-
2015 development agenda.
The  African  States  are  truly  exulted  to  see  you, 
these  momentous 
Mr.  President,  presiding  over 
deliberations.
We  are  indeed  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  reports  on  the  items  under  discussion  today 
(A/69/161, A/69/162 and A/69/163) and for his continued 
leadership and commitment in placing Africa’s agenda 
at  the  heart  of  the  United  Nations  system.  We  fully 
acknowledge  and  can  proudly  attest  to  the  United 
Nations  invaluable  partnership  with,  and  support  to, 
Africa  and  its  endeavours,  which  will  undoubtedly 
grow stronger in the years to come.
The  Group  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Ibrahim Assane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer 
of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency, 
whose visionary leadership is most commendable. We 
associate  ourselves  fully  with  the  statement  he  will 
make on behalf of the Agency.
The  year  2014  is  truly  special  for  Africa  and  the 
world.  In  this  celebrated  year  we  have  witnessed  the 
fulfilment of the Rio+20 mandates related to the Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
the  meetings  of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing, 
the  convening  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  convening  of 
the  first-ever  United  Nations  Environment  Assembly. 
Africa was engaged in all of those processes and will 
gladly  engage  in  the  impending  task  of  integrating 
the  inputs  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  and 
ultimately in their implementation.
In  that  regard,  the  African  Group  fully  endorses 
and applauds the President’s choice of the theme of the 
sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  namely, 
2/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
“Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015 development agenda”.
management, creating jobs for thousands of youth and 
improving livelihoods.
In January, African Heads of State and Government 
endorsed  the  Common  African  Position  (CAP)  on 
the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  which  identifies 
substantive  issues  of  importance  to  the  continent 
and  arrives  at  a  consensus  on  Africa’s  key  priorities, 
concerns and strategies to be reflected in the outcomes 
of  the  post-2015  negotiation  process.  Guided  by  the 
CAP, Africa will contribute to the discussions on how 
to address the unfinished business of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  with  a  focus  on  the 
eradication  of  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  achieving 
the African Union vision of an integrated, prosperous, 
stable and peaceful Africa, driven by its own citizens 
and representing a dynamic force in the global arena.
The  launching  of  the  CAP  coincided  with  the 
formulation of the African Union’s Agenda 2063 Vision, 
an approach to how the continent should effectively learn 
from  the  lessons  of  the  past,  build  upon  the  progress 
now  under  way  and  strategically  exploit  all  possible 
opportunities available in the immediate and medium 
term, with a view to ensuring positive socioeconomic 
transformation within the next five decades. We count 
on  the  United  Nations  and  other  partners  to  support 
the  realization  of  Africa’s  aspirations,  especially  the 
implementation of the African Union-NEPAD agenda.
the  multitude  of  challenges 
confronting the continent, African Heads of State and 
Government  adopted  NEPAD  as  Africa’s  vision  and 
strategic  framework  for  political  and  socioeconomic 
transformation in priority areas, including agriculture 
and 
food  security,  climate  change  and  natural 
resource  management,  and  regional  integration  and 
infrastructure.  More  than  two  decades  later,  NEPAD 
remains  committed  to  facilitating  and  implementing 
Africa’s  priority  programmes  and  to  consolidating 
the  positive  steps  already  taken  towards  continental 
transformation.
light  of 
the 
In 
The  African  Group  notes  with  great  satisfaction 
that  agriculture  remains  at  the  centre  of  Africa’s 
development  agenda.  Agriculture  makes  up  a 
significant  portion  of  the  economies  of  all  African 
countries  and  has  the  potential  to  contribute  towards 
major  continental  priorities,  including  the  eradication 
of poverty and hunger, boosting intra-Africa trade and 
investment, accelerating industrialization and economic 
diversification, sustainable resource and environmental 
During  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  welcomed  and  celebrated  the  tenth 
anniversary of the implementation of the Comprehensive 
Africa Agriculture Programme (CAADP). This year, at 
the  climax  of  the  commemoration  of  the  Africa  Year 
of  Agriculture  2014,  we  celebrated  the  rekindling 
of  CAADP  through  the  adoption  of  the  Malabo 
Declaration  on  Accelerated  Agricultural  Growth  and 
Transformation  for  Shared  Prosperity  and  Improved 
Livelihoods  by  the  Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  African  Union  at  its  twenty-third 
ordinary session. held in June in Equatorial Guinea. 
financial 
investment 
in 
is 
thrust  of 
The  main 
the  Declaration 
the 
undertaking  by  African  Governments  to  sustain  the 
momentum  of  CAADP  for  the  next  decade  through 
increasing 
agriculture, 
including  through  mobilization  of  domestic  resources 
and allocation of 10 per cent of public expenditure to 
the sector; ending hunger by 2025; halving poverty by 
the  year  2025  through  inclusive  agricultural  growth; 
ensuring a 6 per cent growth in the sector per annum; 
boosting  intra-Africa  trade;  enhancing  resilience  and 
reducing  climate  vulnerability;  and  fostering  mutual 
accountability. We wish to underscore the importance 
of  partnerships  and 
in 
attaining CAADP’s objectives.
international  cooperation 
Infrastructure development remains a key priority 
for Africa, and NEPAD is playing a pivotal role through 
the implementation of the Programme for Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  (PIDA).  We  duly  note  the 
efforts  undertaken  since  October  2013,  including  to 
secure  funds  to  implement  16  infrastructure  pilot 
projects  identified  as  quick  wins  for  financing  and 
implementation.  We  welcome  the  Dakar  Financing 
Summit  held  in  June  2014,  which  adopted  the  Dakar 
Agenda for Action to finance those infrastructure pilot 
projects.  We  note  the  major  hurdles  in  financing  the 
implementation of PIDA projects and therefore call for 
the  mobilization  of  resources  from  all  sources,  both 
public and private.
Over  a  decade  ago,  African  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  established  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism, NEPAD’s flagship governance programme, 
which  aims  at  promoting  good  governance  across 
the  continent.  Through  the  CAP,  African  countries 
have  resolved  to  adopt  additional  measures  to  fight 
14-57494
3/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
corruption, promote good political and socioeconomic 
governance, transparency and accountability, especially 
in  the  field  of  natural  resources  management,  and  to 
increase the involvement of civil society. We welcome 
the enrolment of Equatorial Guinea in the Mechanism, 
which brings the number of volunteering African States 
to 34. We note with concern the slow pace in terms of 
reviewing  members  States  and  would  encourage  the 
Agency to seek ways of addressing the causal factors of 
such delays, including financial constraints.
thanks 
inextricable 
The  African  Group 
the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  entitled  “Causes  of  conflict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa”  (A/69/162).  We  acknowledge 
the 
links  between  development  and 
peace,  security  and  stability.  Through  the  CAP,  we 
have  reaffirmed  that  peace  and  security  are  essential 
in  achieving  the  continent’s  development  aspirations, 
especially for ravaged countries or those emerging from 
conflict. In that regard, we are committed to addressing 
the root causes of conflict and preventing the outbreak 
of armed conflict, including through the African Peace 
and Security Architecture.
Malaria remains a serious health concern for Africa. 
It is undoubtedly among the issues that will require our 
continued  attention  beyond  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs. It is utterly unacceptable that the disease, which 
is  entirely  preventable  and  treatable,  should  continue 
to kill thousands of people, especially children, in our 
continent.  We  welcome  the  continued  commitment  of 
the  international  community  to  eradicating  malaria 
and  other  diseases,  as  underlined  in  the  proposals  of 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals.
We  also  welcome  the  declaration  of  the  2013 
Special  Summit  of  the  African  Union  on  HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  which  reaffirmed 
the 
commitment  of  African  Governments  to  accelerate 
the implementation of existing frameworks, including 
the  Abuja  Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  on  Roll 
Back  Malaria  in  Africa.  We  note  with  great  concern 
that the level of funding to fight malaria is far below 
the  resources  required  to  achieve  universal  coverage 
through 
therefore  call  upon 
developed countries and other partners to fulfil all of 
the  commitments  made  towards  eradication  of  that 
scourge.
interventions.  We 
The current Ebola outbreak in West Africa speaks 
to  the  urgency  of  internationally  concerted  action  to 
help  African  countries  improve  their  health  systems 
and  build  core  capacity  to  enhance  access  to  water, 
sanitation  and  health  services.  The  African  Group 
believes that the Ebola outbreak is another wake-up call 
and that business as usual should not prevail again as we 
formulate the set of goals to guide global development 
action for many years to come. The needs of the most 
vulnerable  must  get  due  attention  and  be  the  subject 
of adequate means of implementation in the post-2015 
development agenda in a manner that is commensurate 
with the huge challenges. 
Allow  me  to  commend  the  emergency  actions 
taken by the Secretary-General and the decisions by the 
General Assembly and the Security Council to establish 
the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency 
Response to stem the spread of the outbreak, treat the 
infected, provide essential services, preserve stability 
and prevent outbreaks in non-affected countries.
the 
the  continent,  Member  States,  via 
Let  me  conclude  by  underscoring  further  the 
importance  of  fulfilling  the  commitments  made  to 
Africa,  including  relating  to  official  development 
assistance.  In  the  light  of  the  multitude  of  challenges 
facing 
the 
importance  of 
Rio+20  outcome,  underscored 
the 
international  community  supporting  Africa’s 
sustainable  development  efforts  and  recognized  that 
greater  attention  must  be  given  to  Africa,  including 
the implementation of previously agreed commitments 
related  to  its  development  needs.  We  therefore  call 
on  development  partners  to  fulfil  their  promises  and 
commitments in the spirit of the Monterrey Consensus 
and the Group of Eight Gleneagles Summit. That will 
go  a  long  way  in  terms  of  restoring  trust,  building 
confidence  and  fostering  mutual  respect  in  global 
partnerships.
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  I  am  both  pleased  and 
honoured  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of 
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in today’s joint 
debate on the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD), the causes of conflict and the promotion of 
durable peace and sustainable development in Africa, 
and  the  2001-2010  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa.  Our 
delegations  extend  their  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General for his insightful reports (A/69/161, A/69/162 
and A/69/163) under the respective agenda items.
The Caribbean and Africa are joined by strong ties 
of history and culture. Those ties, reinforced by common 
struggles  for  political  independence  and  economic 
4/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
emancipation  and  against  colonialism  and  apartheid, 
now  find  continuing  expression  in  our  mutual  quest 
for  peace,  justice  and  sustainable  development.  They 
undergird the traditionally fraternal relations that exist 
between our two regions.
Today’s debate takes place against the background 
of an unprecedented Ebola epidemic, which is currently 
ravaging  countries  in  West  Africa.  The  epidemic 
threatens  to  reverse  peacebuilding  and  development 
gains  on  the  continent  and  poses  serious  risks  on  a 
more global scale. CARICOM takes this opportunity to 
express our solidarity with the affected countries, most 
notably Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and with the 
continent as a whole. We call for a massively scaled-up 
and multipronged global response in order to turn tide 
of  the  disease,  strengthen  health  systems  as  a  matter 
of priority and undo any adverse impacts on peace and 
development.
CARICOM  renews  its  principled  support  for  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  African 
ownership and leadership are fundamental to the success 
of the NEPAD framework. We therefore emphasize the 
importance  of  aligning  international  support  with  the 
priorities determined by Africans themselves.
Our  Community  also  welcomes  the  elaboration 
of  the  continent’s  Agenda  2063  as  an  endogenous 
shared  strategic  framework  for  inclusive  growth  and 
sustainable  development  for  Africa’s  transformation 
over  the  next  50  years.  Agenda  2063  seeks  to  realize 
the  pan-African  vision  of  an  integrated,  prosperous 
and peaceful Africa and includes, importantly, a near-
term  objective  of  a  conflict-free  Africa.  CARICOM 
believes that the Agenda is deserving of strong support 
from the international community, alongside the efforts 
of  African  countries,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  its 
objectives are fully realized.
the 
to 
peace  need  to  be  effectively  addressed  and  viable 
mechanisms for conflict prevention and peacebuilding 
need  to  be  established  or  strengthened.  Existing 
conflict situations, the threat of terrorism and violent 
extremism and transnational organized crime will test 
the determination of both Africa and the international 
community  to  see  peace  and  development  take  a 
permanent and irreversible course on the continent.
immediate 
In 
that  context, 
threats 
Even as Africa continues to grapple with significant 
challenges to peace and development, the continent has 
witnessed major development gains in recent times. The 
has region shown strong resilience, with gross domestic 
product growth averaging 4 per cent in 2013. According 
to  the  2014  African  Economic  Outlook,  growth  in 
Africa  is  expected  to  return  to  the  pre-crisis  level  of 
6.5 per cent. While that makes for a promising outlook, 
such a growth rate is still below the 7 per cent target 
regarded as critical for sustained poverty reduction and 
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Moreover, the impact of 
Ebola on Africa’s socioeconomic and security prospects 
has yet to be fully assessed.
There  is  therefore  a  clear  need  to  strengthen 
international  support  in  order  to  consolidate  and 
ensure  the  sustainability  of  the  gains  that  have  been 
made  to  date.  Global  official  development  assistance 
commitments,  including  those  made  to  Africa  in 
particular,  need  to  be  honoured  in  full.  In  addition, 
based  on  the  findings  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
report, significantly greater progress needs to be made 
in addressing the debt problems of the continent. The 
international  trading  system  needs  to  be  made  more 
responsive  to  the  development  imperative  in  order  to 
realize its potential gains in Africa. Expanding the flows 
of foreign direct investment will also be an important 
priority  in  ensuring  that  Africa’s  productive  potential 
is harnessed to full advantage. The role of South-South 
cooperation will remain integral to the global response 
to Africa’s development challenges.
CARICOM  notes  with  appreciation  the  major 
initiatives  under  way  through  the  Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development  Programme 
to 
buttress agricultural development and food security as 
a  key  plank  of  the  region’s  development  strategy.  We 
also note the intensified efforts by African counties to 
accelerate infrastructure development, including in the 
critical  energy  sector.  The  Dakar  Agenda  for  Action, 
adopted  in  June  2014,  provides  a  framework  for  the 
financing of key regional infrastructure projects, which 
are critical to unleashing Africa’s growth potential.
CARICOM  continues  to  support  Africa’s  quest 
to  improve  governance  and  accountability,  reflecting 
our  shared  commitments  in  that  regard.  Increasing 
subscription  by  African  countries  to  the  processes  of 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  is  a  testament 
to  the  efficacy  of  that  instrument  in  promoting  good 
governance  on  the  continent.  We  also  share  Africa’s 
commitment to activating the potential role of women 
and  youth  in  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
socioeconomic transformation.
14-57494
5/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
CARICOM  expresses  the  hope  that  the  stability 
being  experienced  by  most  African  countries  will  be 
sustained and that setbacks to peace and security will 
be overcome. We support United Nations and African 
Union efforts in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding,  which  are  critical  to  the  promotion  of 
durable peace and sustainable development. We reaffirm 
our support for Africa’s aspiration to permanent seats 
and  an  enhanced  non-permanent  presence  on  the 
Security Council.
and dialogue with Africa. It sets out a comprehensive 
partnership of equals, moving away from the traditional 
donor-recipient  approach  to  engage  in  a  systematic 
political  dialogue.  Our  partnership  is  guided  by  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  unity  of  Africa,  the 
interdependence  between  Africa  and  Europe  and 
shared values and interests, as well as joint ownership 
and responsibilities. Those are also core principles of 
the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD).
The  burden  of  disease  is  a  continuing  obstacle  to 
Africa’s  progress,  as  it  is  in  our  own  region.  Malaria 
continues  to  pose  a  significant  challenge  to  Africa 
and a broader host of developing countries. The World 
Health  Organization  estimates  that  207  million  cases 
in  2012  led  to  approximately  627,000  deaths,  most  of 
them in Africa. While significant gains have been made 
since 2000 in the fight against malaria, it is evident that 
stepped-up action is essential to achieving MDG targets 
in this area and eventually achieving a total eradication 
of the disease.
HIV/AIDS  is  another  major  threat  to  health  and 
well-being in Africa and the Caribbean. In May of this 
year, CARICOM joined forces with the African Union 
to  explore  the  role  of  shared  responsibility  and  the 
global solidarity agenda in ending the AIDS epidemic 
in  the  Caribbean,  drawing  on  the  lessons  from  the 
African Union Roadmap on Shared Responsibility and 
Global Solidarity for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
Response  in  Africa.  That  process  of  collaboration 
facilitated  further  links  between  countries  of  both 
regions regarding their HIV and health responses. The 
mutual  threat  posed  by  non-communicable  diseases 
in  our  respective  regions  is  another  area  of  common 
concern and collaboration.
In conclusion, CARICOM reaffirms its commitment 
to  collaboration  with  Africa  in  addressing  common 
challenges to peace and development and in contributing 
together to a more prosperous and secure world.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Poulsen (European Union):I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member States.
The joint Africa-European Union strategy adopted 
at  the  2007  Summit  in  Lisbon  forms  the  strategic 
framework  for  our  steadily  expanding  cooperation 
At  the  fourth  Africa-EU  Summit,  held  in  April 
in  Brussels,  EU  and  African  leaders  renewed  their 
commitments  to  work  together  and  agreed  to  focus 
on 
five  priorities,  namely,  peace  and  security; 
democracy, good governance and human rights; human 
development;  sustainable  and  inclusive  development 
and growth and continental integration; and global and 
emerging  issues.  We  also  committed  to  consult  and 
work in partnership during the upcoming negotiations 
with  a  view  to  reaching  a  consensual  outcome  in 
September 2015.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
recognize the essential role played by the African Union 
and  its  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  in 
the  definition  of  continental  policy  frameworks  and 
programmes,  while  respecting  in  full  the  notions 
of  subsidiarity  and  ownership  and  as  a  monitor  of 
commitments  made 
towards  African  development 
needs. Our support includes the African Peer Review 
Mechanism  as  the  main  African-led  framework  to 
monitor and promote good governance in the continent. 
We  also  support  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa and the Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  Our  aim  is  to 
support  Africa’s  political  and  economic  integration 
through  enhanced 
trade,  a  strengthened  political 
partnership,  increased  cooperation  in  promising  new 
areas  and  support  for  institutional  capacity-building 
at  the  national,  regional  and  continental  levels.  The 
European  Union  and  its  member  States  remain  the 
biggest  trading  and  development  partner  with  the 
African continent.
The  promotion  of  democratic  and  transparent 
systems  of  Government  and  respect  for  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms are key components of the 
joint  Africa-EU  strategy.  The  aim  is  to  facilitate  an 
open,  broad-based  dialogue  on  all  pertinent  issues, 
including human rights and the full enjoyment of such 
rights.
6/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
We  welcome  the  progress  made  by  the  African 
Union  in  addressing  the  many  security  challenges 
on  the  continent,  both  through  African-led  peace 
support  operations  and  through  the  establishment  of 
the African Peace and Security Architecture. We have 
significantly supported those processes since 2004 with 
more than €1.2 billion. We look forward to pursuing our 
cooperation in other areas of common interest, as stated 
in the ambitious road map set out at the 2014 Africa-EU 
Summit.  We  will  therefore  continue  to  closely  follow 
the  African-owned  policy  frameworks  and  to  support 
their implementation, particularly in the context of the 
joint Africa-EU strategic partnership.
Africa continues to face a huge burden of potentially 
preventable or treatable diseases that are causing death 
and  untold  suffering  while  simultaneously  blocking 
economic  development.  Malaria  and  other  deadly 
viruses  such  as  Ebola  and  HIV  impose  a  tremendous 
burden  on  Africa,  particularly  on  women,  children 
and  the  most  vulnerable.  Significant  progress  has 
been made in the global fight against malaria in recent 
years, including in Africa. Experience has shown that 
prevention efforts can achieve impressive results when 
they  are  underpinned  by  strong  and  effective  health 
systems.  But  progress  will  rapidly  be  reversed  if  we 
relax  our  joint  efforts.  There  is  still  much  to  do  to 
reduce even further the number of cases of, and deaths 
due to, malaria.
the 
That  cannot  be  achieved  without  sustained 
investment  and  political  will.  Combating  diseases 
such  as  malaria  through  strengthened  national  health 
systems  is,  in  our  view,  one  of  the  most  effective 
ways  to  alleviate  poverty  and  promote  equitable  and 
sustainable  development.  We  need  to  further  invest 
in  the  health  workforce  and  build  capacity  to  ensure 
equitable  access  to  prevention,  treatment  and  care 
through 
implementation  of  universal  health 
coverage. As the world’s largest donor, both in general 
and  in  the  health  sector  in  particular,  the  European 
Union and its member States will continue to work with 
the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, with the United Nations system and with other 
relevant  organizations  and  mechanisms,  including 
non-governmental  organizations  and  citizens, 
to 
support  national  responses  in  strengthening  health 
systems to properly address malaria and other diseases.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that the European 
Union and its member States remain fully committed to 
supporting Africa and Africans in their quest for peace, 
democratic  governance,  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development.
Mr.  Tin  (Myanmar):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on behalf of the 10 member States of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), namely, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
the  Philippines, 
Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my  own  country, 
Myanmar.
for  his  comprehensive 
First  and  foremost,  we  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General 
reports 
(A/69/161,  A/69/162  and  A/69/163),  which  provide  us 
with valuable updates, practical recommendations and, 
most  of  all,  the  way  forward  for  the  development  of 
Africa.
ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  its  long-
standing relations with Africa. Our friendship has been 
forged since the Bandung Conference between the Asian 
and African States in Indonesia six decades ago, where 
we shared the same aspiration for the development and 
future of our regions. The foundation of our relations 
was formed on the basis of mutual respect and trust and 
has  been  further  enhanced  through  regular  dialogue 
in  regional  and  international  forums.  Based  on  that 
traditional solidarity and friendship, ASEAN voices its 
support for the full and effective implementation of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD), 
which is a collective vision and strategic framework for 
Africa’s development in the twenty-first century.
We  in  ASEAN  are  very  pleased  to  learn  that 
Africa  has  witnessed  remarkable  economic  growth 
in  recent  years,  with  an  average  growth  rate  of  4  per 
cent in 2013. That achievement could be attributed to 
the implementation of NEPAD. We also commend the 
progress that many of our African friends have made in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  fully  aware  of  the 
challenges faced by some African countries in attaining 
the Goals by 2015. ASEAN therefore joins the call for 
the  continent’s  development  partners  to  make  every 
effort  to  deliver  on  their  pledges  to  those  African 
countries that have yet to meet most of the Goals, by 
means  of  increased  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) or foreign direct investment (FDI).
It is of great importance to come up with a common 
position  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda  that 
can  address  the  mutual  concerns  of  both  the  African 
14-57494
7/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
and  Asian  regions.  It  is  imperative  to  ensure  that 
our  efforts  to  that  end  are  sustainable,  inclusive  and 
people-centred.  ASEAN  is  prepared  to  work  side  by 
side  with  our  African  partners  in  that  endeavour.  In 
that regard, it is important that the priorities identified 
by  the  Common  African  Position  on  the  Post-2015 
Development  Agenda,  adopted  by  the  African  Union, 
be given special attention and be fully reflected in the 
formulation of the development agenda.
Peace  and  security  are  at  the  centre  of  all 
development. Without that, progress will be impossible. 
ASEAN  notes  that  some  areas  in  the  African  region 
remain  affected  by  instability  and  armed  conflict. 
In  addition,  the  recent  outbreak  of  the  Ebola  virus 
has  presented  an  additional  hurdle  to  development. 
We  encourage  and  commend  the  work  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development since its adoption, 
in 2001, in addressing those concerns.
ASEAN  is  also  gratified  to  learn  of  the  progress 
made  by  the  African  countries  in  implementing 
NEPAD,  as  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/69/161).  It  is  also  encouraging  that  ODA  to 
Africa has increased despite its downward trend in the 
past two years, and that FDI inflows have maintained 
an upward trend.
The  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  the 
NEPAD  and  the  success  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  have  demonstrated  the  able  leadership 
and  capability  of  African  leaders  to  bring  peace  and 
development to their own continent. At the same time, 
a  strengthened  and  sustained  global  partnership  still 
plays a significant role in bringing about peace, stability 
and development in the African continent.
In  addition,  ASEAN  welcomes 
We  also  welcome  the  recent  organization  of  the 
Africa-NEPAD week and the outcome of the review of 
the NEPAD Agency’s partnerships under the 2014-2017 
strategic  framework,  which  prioritizes  environmental 
issues  and  human 
resource  development  while 
emphasizing  a  rules-  and  results-based  management 
approach. 
the 
formulation  of  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  and 
the  aspiration  to  a  conflict-free  Africa.  We  hope  that 
the  international  community  and  the  United  Nations 
system will lend their full support to the implementation 
of Agenda 2063, as it is a development vision driven by 
Africa’s  own  citizens.  In  that  light,  we  hope  that  our 
cooperation under bilateral, South-South and triangular 
cooperation  frameworks 
through  capacity-building 
programmes  and  scholarships  can  contribute  to  the 
work of the NEPAD in bringing about practical benefits 
to  African  countries  on  behalf  of  their  development 
agenda.
Malaria  is  a  common  disease  that  imposes  a 
very high burden on both of the ASEAN and African 
regions.  The  malaria  situation  for  ASEAN  countries 
is  mixed  and  varied,  but  we  are  still  facing  common 
challenges  in  finding  a  solution  together.  ASEAN 
therefore  welcomes  the  recent  adoption  of  resolution 
68/308, entitled “Consolidating gains and accelerating 
efforts to control and eliminate malaria in developing 
countries,  particularly 
in  Africa,  by  2015”.  The 
resolution  urges  Governments  -  together  with  United 
Nations agencies, private organizations and foundations 
-  to  work  together  to  overcome  challenges  and  speed 
up efforts towards the targets set out in the Roll Back 
Malaria Partnership’s Global Malaria Action Plan and 
in the MDGs.
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  successful 
conclusion in our capital, Yangon, on 29 September, of 
a regional forum on opportunities for corporate sector 
engagement  in  malaria  control  in  the  Asia-Pacific 
region. The one-day forum was organized by the Roll 
Back Malaria Partnership and its partners and sought 
to  identify  tangible  opportunities  for  strengthening 
public-private  partnerships 
regional 
malaria-control strategies. ASEAN also welcomes the 
valuable assistance that the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  provided  to  developing 
countries in their efforts to eradicate those diseases.
support 
to 
We  also  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  quick 
response  in  establishing  the  United  Nations  Mission 
for Ebola Emergency Response in Accra. We must all 
unite  to  fight  the  Ebola  epidemic,  as  it  has  become  a 
threat  to  development  and  to  human  security  beyond 
Africa.  ASEAN  member  States  will  extend  their  full 
support to Africa’s efforts to combat pandemic diseases 
and  are  ready  to  share  and  exchange  information  and 
experiences in addressing them.
Last  but  not  least,  ASEAN  joins  the  Secretary-
General’s call to continue the international community’s 
support to help accelerate efforts to achieve the MDGs 
and  sustainable  growth  in  Africa  and  to  align  such 
assistance with the priorities of NEPAD.
In  concluding,  ASEAN  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
solidarity and support to the endeavours of our African 
friends  and  the  international  community  in  achieving 
8/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
greater  progress  in  implementing  the  NEPAD  agenda 
for the benefit of the peoples of Africa.
Ms. Hazara Chana (United Republic of Tanzania): 
I am honoured to participate in this joint debate of the 
General Assembly, which coincides with the culmination 
of Africa’s New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
week 2014. I am very pleased to see you, Mr. President, 
presiding over a meeting devoted to an agenda item that 
is  so  important  for  Africa  and  that  blends  seamlessly 
with the theme of the Assembly’s current session, that 
is, “Delivering on and implementing a transformative 
post-2015 development agenda”. Africa is an important 
partner in that vital global development agenda. As the 
Ambassador of Malawi and Chair of the African Group 
alluded  to  in  the  statement  he  delivered  on  behalf 
of  the  Group,  to  which  Tanzania  fully  subscribes, 
Africa is ready to engage in formulating the post-2015 
development agenda.
We thank the Secretary-General for his reports on 
the agenda items under consideration today (A/69/161, 
A/69/162  and  A/69/163)  and  for  his  stewardship 
and  commitment  to  keeping  Africa  on  the  agenda 
of  all  United  Nations  activities.  We  also  commend 
Mr. Ibrahim Hassane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency,  and 
the  entire  NEPAD  secretariat  for  their  continued 
good  work  in  implementing  NEPAD’s  programmes 
on  behalf  of  the  African  Union.  We  also  pay  tribute 
to  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  the 
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the 
African Development Bank and the other regional and 
international partners who support the implementation 
of NEPAD’s agenda.
This  joint  debate  takes  place  at  a  very  critical 
juncture, as the world is bracing itself for the decisive 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  to  commence  early  next  year. 
That momentous process will follow the fulfilment of 
the Rio+20 mandates, including the work of the Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
which  delivered  a  salutary  set  of  goals  and  targets  to 
be  integrated  into  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
We note with great satisfaction that the proposal took 
into account most of Africa’s development aspirations 
encapsulated  in  the  Common  African  Position  on  the 
Post-2015  Development  Agenda.  This  gives  us  hope 
that Africa will have full ownership of the goals once 
they are adopted in September of next year.
We are confident that proposals from other Rio+20 
follow-up  processes,  including  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing,  the  Third  International  Conference  on 
Small Island Developing States, the High-level Political 
Forum - which met under the auspices of the Economic 
and Social Council for the first time, in June - and the 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
to be held in Addis Ababa in July 2015, will contribute 
to a transformative post-2015 development agenda that 
meets the aspirations of both developing and developed 
countries.
Of paramount importance for Tanzania and Africa 
is  the  eradication  of  poverty  in  all  forms.  Poverty  is 
a  chronic  challenge  that  could  not  be  surmounted  in 
the  era  of  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
It  is  imperative,  therefore,  that  the  post-2015  agenda 
address  the  unfinished  business  of  the  MDGs  on  the 
aspect  of  poverty  and  hunger,  maternal  and  child 
health, the eradication of diseases such as HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis and malaria, and ensuring a strengthened 
global partnership for development.
Tanzania would like to underscore the importance 
of  means  of  implementation,  a  prerequisite  for  the 
attainment  of  sustainable  development.  Our  countries 
have resolved to enhance the mobilization of domestic 
resources.  However,  we  are  fully  aware  that  such 
resources  in  themselves  are  insufficient  to  meet  the 
development needs of our countries and continent. We 
shall continue to call of development partners to fulfil 
their  promises  and  commitments  made  to  Africa  in 
different forums, in terms of financing, trade, capacity-
building and, most critically, technology transfer. 
Tanzania  awaits  in  anticipation  the  conclusion  of 
discussions on the establishment of a mechanism for the 
transfer and dissemination of clean and environmentally 
sound  technologies  to  developing  countries.  I  can 
only underscore at this juncture that this must be part 
and  parcel  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  as 
envisaged in “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, 
annex).
NEPAD  is  Africa’s  pride.  Over  the  years  since 
its  adoption,  it  has  progressively  contributed  to  the 
realization of Africa’s vision and strategic framework 
for  political  and  socioeconomic  transformation  on 
priority areas, including agriculture and food security, 
regional integration and infrastructure, climate change 
and  natural  resource  management,  and  political  and 
14-57494
9/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
economic governance. We are confident that NEPAD’s 
agenda will continue to align itself fully with Africa’s 
development aspirations in the post-2015 development 
agenda, as inspired by Africa’s 2063 Agenda.
Last  year  we  celebrated  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  (CAADP).  This  year  we  have  celebrated 
Africa’s  Year  of  Agriculture  and  Food  Security,  with 
the  adoption  in  June  of  the  Malabo  Declaration  on 
Accelerated  Agricultural  Growth  and  Transformation 
for Shared Prosperity and Improved Livelihoods, which 
re-enacts the CAADP agenda for the next decade. The 
Tanzanian  Government  is  already  implementing  the 
transformative actions encapsulated in the Declaration, 
including  on  increasing  investment  in  agriculture 
through domestic resource mobilization and enhanced 
partnership, as well as the promotion of climate-smart 
agriculture. 
Since signing the CAADP compact in July 2010, the 
Government has launched the Tanzania Food Security 
Investment  Plan,  a  15-year  investment  plan  whose 
ultimate objective is to contribute to national economic 
growth,  household  income  and  food  security,  in  line 
with  national  and  sectoral  development  aspirations. 
National programmes such as the Southern Agriculture 
Growth Corridor of Tanzania and the Kilimo Kwanza 
resolution are truly transforming Tanzania’s agriculture 
sector. We can only underscore here the importance of 
national  leadership  and  ownership  in  realizing  these 
important development aspirations for our people.
Infrastructure  is  also  an  important  sector  for 
Tanzania’s  and  Africa’s  realization  of  sustainable 
development  aspirations  and  regional 
integration. 
We  commend  the  NEPAD  Agency  for  the  steady 
implementation  of  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa, undertaken with limited available 
resources.  We  note  that  sustainable  infrastructure 
development will require the mobilization of financial 
resources from all sources, including the private sector. 
We welcome the Dakar Agenda for Action adopted in 
June for financing the 16 pilot infrastructure projects 
in Africa, including in our subregion of Eastern Africa. 
We call upon development partners to support Africa’s 
endeavour that regard.
Tanzania is fully committed to NEPAD’s African 
Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), whose main objective 
is  to  promote  good  governance  across  the  continent. 
The APRM process has been a useful tool for building 
capacity  on  monitoring  governance,  developing 
partnerships  and  enhancing  advocacy  for  efficiency, 
effectiveness and transparency in leadership. We note 
the  constraints  facing  the  APRM  process,  which  are 
affecting  the  optimal  fulfilment  of  its  mandate.  We 
commend  the  African  Peer  Review  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons, under the leadership of Ms. Fatuma Ndangiza, 
for  steering  the  work  of  the  Mechanism.  Tanzania  is 
among the 17 countries that have already undergone the 
peer review process. We are currently consolidating the 
gains registered in the area of governance, which have 
characterized our nation since its independence.
We  are  currently  undertaking  constitutional 
reform, with the ultimate objective of enacting a new 
constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, which 
will guide our people towards a secure and prosperous 
future.  The  constitution-drafting  process  has  reached 
a  decisive  stage,  as  the  Constitutional  Assembly  has 
adopted  a  draft  constitution.  The  next  critical  stage 
is  a  referendum,  which  will  provide  the  citizenry 
an  opportunity  to  determine  the  status  of  that  draft 
constitution.
It  has  been  stated  before  in  this  very  Hall  that 
Africa  has  solutions  for  African  challenges.  If  I  may 
add,  our  respective  States  also  have  solutions  for  our 
national  challenges.  Doors  are  always  open  for  well-
wishers who continue to render a helping hand to Africa 
and our respective countries in tackling the multitude 
of challenges we face.
Over  the  past  10  years,  we  have  registered  some 
successes  in  the  fight  against  malaria.  More  than 
1  million  lives  have  been  saved.  Mortality  has  been 
reduced by more than a quarter globally and by a third 
in  Africa  through  the  collaborative  efforts  of  various 
stakeholders.  In  Tanzania,  we  succeeded  in  reducing 
the prevalence of malaria in young children by 44 per 
cent between 2008 and May 2012. In Zanzibar, deaths 
due to malaria are nearly zero. For mainland Tanzania, 
different interventions are being undertaken, including 
residual  spraying  on  malaria  breeding  sites,  long-
lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  being  made  available 
at  every  bedside,  early  treatment  for  those  infected 
with  malaria,  and  control  and  surveillance  to  prevent 
re-emergence  and  epidemics.  Similar  success  stories 
can be found in other African countries.
those 
While 
interventions  produce  dramatic 
declines in infection, morbidity and mortality, declines 
are  not  sufficient  to  interrupt  transmission.  Malaria 
10/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
is still a global threat, affecting 99 countries globally 
and  contributing  to  655,000  deaths  per  year.  Malaria 
kills  a  child  in  Africa  every  minute.  The  African 
region accounts for almost 81 per cent of malaria cases 
occurring worldwide. Ninety per cent of malaria deaths 
occur  in  the  region,  with  86  per  cent  being  children 
below  five  years  of  age.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  the 
current strategies alone are unlikely to achieve the goal 
of  elimination.  They  are  also  at  risk  of  diminishing 
efficacy due to the development of drug resistance on 
the  part  of  parasites  and  insecticide  resistance  on  the 
part Anopheles mosquitos.
On the other hand, the Government has embarked 
on  an  expensive  comprehensive  programme 
to 
deal  with  the  question  of  access  to  health  care.  The 
programme  will  ensure  that  there  is  a  dispensary  in 
every  village  and  a  health-care  centre  in  every  ward. 
The  programme  will  certainly  be  instrumental  in  the 
success of our anti-malaria effort, as it will guarantee 
prompt  diagnosis  and  prompt  treatment.  It  is  in  this 
endeavour that we need partnerships and support from 
the  international  community.  We  thank  our  bilateral 
and  multilateral  partners  who  have  provided  us  with 
financial  and  technical  support.  We  call  for  their 
continued  support  to  complement  the  Government’s 
efforts to implementthe malaria strategy and eradicate 
malaria in Tanzania.
It  would  be  remiss  of  me  to  conclude  without 
saying  some  words  regarding  the  Ebola  outbreak  in 
West  Africa,  which  has  struck  yet  another  blow  to 
our  economies  and  our  peoples.  Ebola  is  multiplying 
faster than our collective interventions to prevent and 
ultimately  eradicate  it.  The  outbreak  has  exposed  the 
fragility of the health systems and the capacity of our 
countries to respond to deadly outbreaks. We commend 
you,  Mr.  President,  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
entire  United  Nations  system,  as  well  as  Member 
States  and  regional  organizations,  for  responding 
swiftly  in  mobilizing  political  will  and  resources. 
Our interventions in the short and medium term must 
focus on saving the lives of those affected, preventing 
the spread of the disease and ultimately eliminating it 
from  the  face  of  the  Earth.  Our  long-term  goal  must 
be to address the structural handicaps and institutional 
weaknesses  characterizing 
in 
developing countries, especially in Africa.
the  health  sector 
Ms.  Strasser-King  (Sierra  Leone):  At  the  outset, 
as  this  is  the  first  time  I  take  the  floor,  allow  me  to 
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session and to wish you success during your tenure. Let 
me also express my profound gratitude to the Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  (A/69/161,  A/69/162  and 
A/69/163) and to extend appreciation to the organizers 
of this event. 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Malawi  on 
behalf of the African Group.
In 
this  era  of  global 
transformation,  peace 
and  development  have  become  even  more  closely 
interlinked  and  mutually  reinforcing.  Against  that 
backdrop,  the  focus  on  peace  and  development  could 
not have been better timed than at the moment when the 
international  community  is  grappling  with  challenges 
ranging  from  poverty,  hunger,  the  devastating  effects 
of  climate  change,  terrorism,  organized  crime  and 
drug trafficking, disarmament, and the reconstruction 
and  strengthening  of  fragile  economies  and  societies 
emerging  from  conflicts,  to  the  ongoing  stock  taking 
of  the  progress  of  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  the  Assembly  pledged  in 
2010 to achieve by 2015.
We  have  come  a  long  way.  The  voyage  has  been 
bumpy  and  at  times  turbulent,  yet  we  have  remained 
focused.  The  effects  of  climate  change,  conflicts  and 
pandemics  have  continued  to  compromise  the  efforts 
of African States. Despite the challenges, we have, as 
a  continent,  made  significant  strides  in  reducing  the 
resurgence of conflicts during the last decade.
My delegation emphasizes the importance of peace 
and security as a necessary condition for development 
in  Africa.  Development  is  impossible  without  peace, 
just  as  peace  is  impossible  without  development, 
and  lasting  peace  and  sustainable  development  are 
impossible without respect for human rights and the rule 
of law. Building stable and peaceful societies in Africa 
requires action to eradicate poverty and inequality and 
enhance good governance.
As  poverty  is  both  a  cause  and  consequence  of 
instability  and  conflict,  the  continent  cannot  achieve 
peace and development without addressing poverty in 
its entirety. To that end, the continent will continue to 
work with the wider international community to prevent 
outbreaks of armed conflicts. 
Africa  is  the  region  that  needs  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  more  than  any  other  region.  We 
14-57494
11/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
have the unique opportunity to ensure that the critical 
issues  confronting  our  continent  —  poverty,  hunger, 
the  effects  of  climate  change,  inequality  and  youth 
employment  —  are  adequately  addressed  in  the  post-
2015 development framework.
Sierra Leone is among the countries of Africa that 
have  made  remarkable  progress  in  political  stability. 
We  continue  to  place  emphasis  on  the  protection  of 
the  basic  rights  of  our  people.  We  have  put  in  place 
comprehensive  justice  sector  reforms  in  response  to 
both  national  and  global  demands  to  ensure  that  the 
rights  of  our  people  are  preserved,  and  above  all,  to 
enhance access to justice for all. We are pleased to note 
that the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights entered into 
force last year.
Within  the  security,  political,  humanitarian  and 
development  framework,  we  have  adopted  measures 
to address many of the root causes of conflict and lay 
the  foundation  for  medium  and  long-term  national 
development.  We  are  heartened  by  the  remarkable 
progress  our  country  has  made,  especially 
in 
identifying  and  resolving  tensions  and  threats  of 
potential  conflict,  monitoring  and  promoting  human 
rights, building peace and security, and consolidating 
good  governance  reforms.  These  provide  us  with  the 
appropriate  healing  therapy  for  a  country  that  has 
emerged  from  a  massively  devastating  conflict.  We 
have gone from being a country on the agenda of the 
Security  Council  to  a  nation  that  is  a  storehouse  of 
lessons on how to successfully move away from war to 
peace  and  development.  Sierra  Leone  is  considered  a 
model of best practices in donor coordination, as well as 
a success story in peacebuilding. We enjoy accolades in 
charting the path for a peaceful, secure and democratic 
Sierra Leone.
is 
remarkable  post-conflict  achievement 
As  we  commend  ourselves  for  the  gains  made, 
our 
in 
danger of being completely reversed if a vigorous and 
well-coordinated  effort  is  not  made  to  eradicate  the 
unprecedented  Ebola  virus.  The  disease  has  already 
claimed  thousands  of  lives  and  threatens  to  kill 
thousands more if drastic action is not taken to contain 
it. The effect of the disease has not only been terrifying, 
but has also impacted the entire socioeconomic fabric 
of the countries currently affected by it. The epidemic 
is  now  causing  huge  disruptions  to  the  agricultural, 
mining,  manufacturing,  transportation,  tourism  and 
construction sectors. It also poses a significant threat 
to  human  development,  State  security  and  poverty 
reduction. Economic disruptions are already being felt. 
Government  revenues  are  drying  up.  In  short,  Ebola 
has imposed a kind of economic embargo on us. Every 
major  economic  activity  has  either  slowed  down  or 
come to a complete standstill.
Amid our current challenges, we will continue to 
build on progress made in addressing key development 
priorities,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  gender  equality 
and women’s empowerment, youth unemployment and 
empowerment,  the  management  of  natural  resources, 
agriculture and food security, the effective delivery of 
public services, and a robust private sector-led growth 
that could translate into more tangible peace dividends.
Mr.  Albuaijan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports  under  agenda  item 
62  (a)  and  (b),  concerning  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  including  on  the 
implementation  of  commitments 
towards  Africa’s  
development.  We  have  reviewed  with  interest  the 
reports contained in documents A/69/161 and A/69/163, 
in  which  he  emphasizes  the  political  measures  taken 
by  African  countries  and  organizations  to  implement 
NEPAD  in  the  four  thematic  areas  under  review: 
agriculture,  food  security  and  nutrition;  financing 
for  development;  environmental  stability  and  climate 
change; and good governance.
It  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  commend  all 
efforts  to  implement  the  programme  intended  to 
transform  Africa  over  the  next  50  years,  endorsed  by 
the  twenty-first  African  Union  Summit  in  May  2013, 
which will provide a strategic framework for Africa’s 
growth and sustainable development. The review of the 
progress in the implementation of NEPAD underlines 
the  necessity  of  continuing  to  establish  partnerships 
to  address  issues  related  to  security,  food  security, 
poverty, disease, human rights and the rule of law, as 
well  as  environmental  issues  such  as  desertification 
and drought. We should like to thank Under-Secretary-
General Maged Abdelaziz, Special Adviser on Africa, 
and the Permanent Observer of the African Union for 
convening a high-level dialogue entitled “The Next 50 
Years:  The  Africa  We  Want”  in  order  to  support  the 
efforts  of  the  African  Union  programme  looking  to 
2063,  which  will  aid  economic,  social  and  political 
development.
Having  reviewed 
two 
reports,  we  should  like  to  express  our  grave  concern 
the  Secretary-General’s 
12/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
that Africa has not achieved its goal in fighting hunger. 
We  are  also  dismayed  by  the  findings  on  agriculture 
and food security in the report in A/69/163. Arable land 
has not kept up with population growth, as only 6 per 
cent  of  the  land  can  be  irrigated.  The  proportion  of 
the  population  suffering  undernutrition  fell  modestly, 
from  33  per  cent  to  25  per  cent  from  1990  to  2013, 
while  widespread  undernutrition  continues  to  affect 
more than 13 million people in Africa. The report also 
states  that  Africa  faces  environmental  challenges, 
such  as  deforestation,  soil  degradation  and  loss  of 
biological  diversity.  We  should  like  to  underline  the 
importance  of  taking  into  consideration  the  report’s 
recommendations,  especially 
to  good 
governance, and that national and international efforts 
should continue to achieve lasting peace in Africa by 
supporting  democracy,  enhancing  peace  and  security, 
and fighting corruption.
regard 
in 
A  number  of  African  countries,  especially  in 
West Africa, face challenges arising from the growing 
prevalence  of  Ebola.  Therefore,  Kuwait,  in  view  of 
its  strong  historical  ties  to  Africa,  has  responded  to 
the  international  humanitarian  appeals  to  mitigate 
the  consequences  of  the  disease  and  has  contributed 
$5 million to the World Health Organization in response 
to  its  call  for  funding  to  eradicate  that  scourge  and 
provide a dignified life for all peoples.
Thirteen  years  have  elapsed  since  the  adoption 
of  NEPAD,  which 
is  a  comprehensive  strategic 
vision  to  achieve  political  and  social  development  in 
Africa.  Twelve  years  have  elapsed  since  the  General 
Assembly organized a high-level dialogue on NEPAD, 
on  16  September  2002  (see  A/57/PV.10)  and  adopted 
resolution 57/7 that November, declaring NEPAD to be 
the framework for development in Africa. 
We  would  like  to  emphasize  that  my  country 
strongly  supports  global  cooperation  in  eradicating 
poverty, alleviating debt and combating diseases such 
as AIDS and malaria, which are exacerbated by a lack 
of support for economic development and development 
projects. That requires a serious effort on the part of the 
international community to achieve the internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  as  well  as  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and Africa’s ambitious Vision 2063.
We  are  proud  of  our  historical  ties  with  a  large 
number of African countries. From 18 to 20 November 
2013,  we  hosted  the  Third  Afro-Arab  Summit,  under 
the  theme  “Partners  in  development  and  investment,” 
in order to deepen Arab and African cooperation and 
open  up  new  horizons  for  stability,  development  and 
cooperation for the countries of those two groups. On 
the  basis  of  our  belief  in  the  importance  of  support 
and  humanitarian  and  development  assistance  for 
developing and less developed countries, at the Summit 
we  declared  the  initiative  of  His  Royal  Highness  the 
Amir  of  Kuwait,  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah,  to  provide  concessional  loans  to  African 
countries totalling $1 billion over the next five years. 
Another investment initiative, in coordination with the 
World  Bank  and  other  financial  institutions,  totalled 
$1 billion.
Furthermore,  the  annual  prize  endowed  by  the 
late  Mr.  Abdul  Rahman  Al-Sumait  in  the  sum  of 
$1  million  was  allocated  to  development  projects 
under the supervision of the Kuwait Foundation for the 
Advancement  of  Sciences.  In  appreciation  of  the  late 
Mr. Al-Sumait’s prominent and effective role in Africa 
represented by his philanthropic work, Kuwait attaches 
great  importance  to  the  role  of  the  Kuwaiti  Fund  for 
Arab Economic Development in 48 out of 54 countries, 
as we believe in joint work for the benefit of developing 
countries. Our contributions in that fund in Africa total 
$6.4 billion.
In  conclusion,  I  recall  that,  given  our  historical 
ties with Africa - our long heritage, common interests, 
aspirations and destiny - the international community, 
governmental and non-governmental organizations and 
the  private  sector  must  work  together  to  help  Africa 
fulfil its aspirations and its development ambitions and 
advance its economies.
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  Thailand  aligns  itself 
with the statement delivered earlier by the Permanent 
Representative of Myanmar on behalf of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations. 
We  thank  you,  Mr  President,  for  your  own 
important  opening  statement.  Thailand  thanks  the 
Secretary-General for his comprehensive report entitled 
“New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  twelfth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international support” (A/69/161). We also acknowledge 
the untiring efforts of the Secretary-General’s Special 
Adviser on Africa, Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz, and 
his presence here this morning.
Thailand  commends  our  African  brothers  and 
sisters for their untiring efforts to transform Africa into 
a continent of hope or, in your own words, Mr. President, 
“Africa  rising”.  Africa  is  a  continent  with  enormous 
14-57494
13/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
potential  and  innumerable  opportunities.  The  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
other regional initiatives have greatly contributed to the 
success and progress towards achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in Africa. 
However, despite such remarkable progress, Africa 
continues to face a number of persistent and emerging 
challenges,  including  political  and  armed  conflict, 
terrorism,  climate  change,  epidemics,  poverty  and 
famine. Together, we must ensure that such challenges 
will  not  undo  past  success  or  hinder  the  future  of 
Africa.  As  the  Secretary-General  states  in  his  report, 
the year 2015 is fast approaching and enormous effort 
is needed to push forward towards the attainment of the 
MDGs in Africa.
Thailand 
is  committed 
to  fostering  a 
long-
term  strategic  partnership  with  Africa.  In  2013,  we 
launched  the  Thai-African  Initiative,  one  of  our  most 
important  foreign  policy  agendas.  This  partnership 
initiative is based on three main pillars of cooperation: 
development,  economic  matters  and  global  affairs. 
Thailand therefore warmly welcomes the formulation of 
the African Union’s Agenda 2063 Vision and Priorities 
and  the  Common  African  Position  on  the  Post-2015 
Development Agenda. Thailand views such a vision and 
priorities as fitting well with our Thai-Africa Initiative 
to  formulate  and  coordinate  policy  direction  towards 
mutually beneficial areas of cooperation.
Agriculture,  as  the  Secretary-General  states  in 
one report, is the key to Africa’s transformation. With 
2014 being the Year of Agriculture and Food Security, 
the  Thailand  International  Development  Cooperation 
Agency has implemented a number of agriculture-related 
projects  in  Africa.  Priority,  of  course,  is  given  to  the 
exchange  of  know-how  on  sustainable  agricultural 
development  and 
food  processing.  Collaboration 
projects range from development of mushroom-growing 
in  Swaziland  to  rice  cultivation  in  Mozambique  and 
small-scale  fisheries  in  Madagascar  and  Mozambique 
to the upgrading of a laboratory for hatchery operations 
in Senegal. Such projects are in line with the Secretary-
General’s  recommendation  on  the  need  to  increase 
productivity, thereby enabling Africa to be more self-
reliant, and on the need to ease food insecurity concerns.
With  regard  to  public  health,  Thailand  is  actively 
cooperating  with  Africa  through  expertise-sharing. 
Our  cooperation  focuses  on  strengthening  human-
resource  capacity  in  the  prevention  and  treatment  of 
serious epidemics and community-based public health 
management.
Mr.  Boureima  (Niger),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Thailand also supported and co-sponsored resolution 
55/284,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  particularly  in  Africa”,  with 
special  emphasis  on  universal  and  equitable  access 
to  treatment  and  medication.  On  that  point,  Thailand 
stands ready to share its own experiences and lessons 
learned  in  developing  universal  health  coverage.  We 
feel that such coverage can help African countries put 
in place a medical-service system with universal access 
and financial risk protection for their people. 
The health and welfare of our African brothers and 
sisters are of concern, especially those currently facing 
the  Ebola  crisis.  Thailand  has  so  far  contributed  over 
$152,000 to the World Health Organization to provide 
rice to help relieve the food-shortage crisis facing the 
people  in  Ebola-affected  areas.  Such  humanitarian 
assistance will continue, from both the Thai Government 
and private sectors, to help fight that epidemic.
With  regard 
to  education  and  human-capital 
development,  we  believe 
that  economic  growth, 
sustainable  development  and  long-term  peace  and 
security all go hand in hand. They can be achieved only 
through  the  development  of  human  capital.  Thailand 
therefore  gives  high  priority  to  this  important  area 
of  cooperation  by  providing  scholarships  for  higher 
education, and fellowships for training are provided in 
areas where our expertise could be of value to Africa. 
We shall continue our development cooperation under 
various  frameworks,  be 
trilateral, 
multilateral or South-South cooperation.
they  bilateral, 
During  the  general  debate  in  this  very  Hall  last 
month, many African leaders called on the international 
community  to  recognize  and  respond  to  Africa’s 
development  priorities  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  This  was  reiterated  this  morning  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Malawi on behalf of the 
African States. Thailand echoes those calls, for peace 
and development in Africa matters not only within the 
continent but also far beyond. The maintenance of peace 
and sustainable development in Africa must also be the 
shared responsibility of the international community.
Thailand  commends 
the 
African  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
the  contributions  of 
14/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
African  States  and  other  regional  organizations,  as 
well  as  the  United  Nations,  in  addressing  these  two 
critical issues. In the spirit of solidarity, Thailand has 
joined global efforts in the maintenance of peace and 
security  in  Africa  by  participating  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  in  the  Sudan  and  in  Liberia. 
We  remain  committed  to  strengthening  our  global 
partnership  for  the  development  in  Africa  and  stand 
ready  to  share  our  experiences  and  best  practices  in 
areas  that  our  African  brothers  and  sisters  may  deem 
useful.
Ms.  Hamilton  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  of  America  welcomes  this  opportunity 
to  share  views  with  colleagues  on  the  progress  of 
and  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD).  Today’s  discussion  and  the 
issues  involved  -  security,  governance  and  inclusive 
economic growth, among others - present an opportunity 
to further bolster Africa’s development trajectory as we 
envision the continent’s development over the next 50 
years.
The  United  States  continues  to  support  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  as  the  strategic 
framework  for  socioeconomic  development  in  Africa 
that  reflects  the  African  States’  collective  vision.  We 
support  NEPAD  priorities  for  democratization,  good 
governance  and  economic  transparency,  as  well  as 
its  initiatives  to  enhance  regional-  and  national-level 
infrastructure, food security and nutrition. The United 
States  looks  forward  to  engagement  on  the  Agenda 
2063 process.
The United States recognizes the tenth anniversary 
of  the  establishment  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  (APRM).  My  delegation  commends  the 
African-led  APRM  process  to  share  experiences  and 
reinforce best practices. It appreciates the enthusiasm 
and dedication of the APRM secretariat to this process.
Regarding  food  security,  the  United  States  views 
African  countries  as  essential  partners  in  United 
States  food  security  initiatives.  In  2013,  the  United 
States’  Feed  the  Future  initiative  reached  more  than 
12.5  million  children  with  nutrition  interventions. 
Feed  the  Future  also  helped  nearly  7  million  farmers 
and other food producers incorporate new technologies 
and  management  practices  on  more  than  4  million 
hectares  of  land.  The  United  States  also  supports  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme, under which the African Union and African 
nations are encouraged to invest in the development of 
their agricultural sectors.
The New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition 
initiative  has  expanded  to  10  African  countries.  It 
now  includes  more  than  160  local  and  international 
companies,  and  has  secured  more  than  $7  billion 
in  planned  investments  only  two  years  after  its 
launch.  Through  the  New  Alliance  and  Grow  Africa 
partnerships,  more  than  2.6  million  small  farmers 
have already been reached through services, training, 
sourcing or production contracts.
The  United  States  strongly  supports  African 
efforts to generate broad-based, sustained and inclusive 
economic  growth  and  applauds  those  countries  that 
pursue strategies to reduce poverty and unemployment, 
and integrate further into the global economy. The United 
States  particularly  supports  efforts  to  create  enabling 
business  environments  that  facilitate  development.  In 
this context, the United States commends the NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  for  its  work  to 
support  the  initiatives  of  individual  Governments  in 
conjunction with the African Union, the United Nations 
and  the  African  Development  Bank.  Predictable  and 
transparent business environments are critical elements 
for attracting domestic and foreign investment and for 
sustained private sector growth.
At  the  United  States-Africa  Leaders  Summit  in 
August  2014,  President  Obama  announced  measures, 
including  Overseas  Private  Investment  Corporation 
support  for  United  States  investment,  to  help  spur 
African  development.  Concurrently,  we  aim  to  bring 
electricity to 60 million African homes and businesses 
through  new  commitments 
the  Power  Africa 
initiative. We also seek to achieve a seamless and long-
term renewal of the African Growth and Opportunity 
Act.
to 
While international support is important, Africa’s 
growth  depends,  more  than  anything,  on  continued 
reforms  undertaken  by  Africans  themselves.  We  urge 
further action on reforms that will attract investment, 
promote a transparent business climate, reduce barriers 
to trade and promote regional integration. The United 
States  stands  ready  to  help  build  Africa’s  capacity  to 
trade with itself and with the world.
The  United  States  urges 
international 
community  to  agree  on  a  meaningful  and  ambitious 
post-2015 development agenda by next September. My 
delegation places a particular priority on the unfinished 
the 
14-57494
15/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
business  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  but 
it  also  recognizes  the  need  to  go  further  and  address 
known  drivers  of  development  progress,  especially 
women’s  equality  and  empowerment,  inclusive  and 
sustained  economic  growth,  sustainable  energy, 
peace  and  governance.  The  post-2015  development 
agenda will require crafting a true global partnership. 
This  partnership  must  go  beyond  traditional  aid  and 
encompass actions and investments from all countries 
and all sources.
As President Obama noted last month in the general 
debate  (see  A/69/PV.6),  America  is  committed  to  a 
development  agenda  that  eradicates  extreme  poverty 
by  2030.  The  United  States,  in  cooperation  with  our 
African  partners,  will  help  people  feed  themselves, 
power their economies and care for their sick. Working 
together, we can make sure that all of our children enjoy 
lives of opportunity and dignity.
launched 
My delegation also appreciates the opportunity to 
consider  the  Assembly’s  agenda  item  on  the  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria.  The  United  States  remains 
determined  to  work  with  national  Governments  and 
other  partners  to  help  end  deaths  from  malaria.  Our 
President’s  Malaria  Initiative, 
in  2005, 
represented an historic $1.2 billion, five-year expansion 
of United States Government resources to fight malaria 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  Initiative’s  strategy  was 
expanded  for  the  2009-2014  period,  with  the  goal  of 
achieving  Africa-wide  impact  by  halving  the  burden 
of  malaria  in  70  per  cent  of  at-risk  populations  in 
sub-Saharan Africa. The President’s Malaria Initiative 
now  focuses  programme  support  in  19  countries  in 
Africa, as well as in countries in the Greater Mekong 
sub-region of southeast Asia. In 2013 alone, the Initiative 
protected more than 45 million people against malaria 
with a prevention measure. It has also procured more 
than 48 million anti-malaria treatments and 51 million 
rapid diagnostic tests. With the United States support, 
countries  are  supporting  and  strengthening  their  own 
capacity to fight the disease. 
Investments  in  malaria  prevention  and  control 
are  positively  impacting  the  lives  of  millions  of 
children, pregnant women and families in Africa. It is 
a  tremendous  success  story,  yet  it  is  still  incomplete. 
The President’s Malaria Initiative is developing a new 
strategy  for  2015-2020.  That  strategy  will  outline  the 
United States Government’s approach to working with 
partner  countries  to  accelerate  progress  in  malaria 
control,  moving  closer  to  the  goal  of  eliminating 
malaria as a major public health threat with a vision of 
a malaria-free Africa ever more real.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
pursuit of peace and development by African countries 
is  at  a  critical  new  juncture.  With  their  booming 
economies,  African  countries  have  made  remarkable 
progress in the implementation of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and in maintaining 
stability  and  the  momentum  of  development.  At  the 
same  time,  as  a  result  of  the  international  financial 
crisis,  local  regional  conflicts  and  hotspot  issues, 
especially the recent Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the 
humanitarian crisis in Africa is worsening. All that has 
posed daunting challenges to Africa’s efforts to achieve 
peace, stability and development.
is  an 
Africa’s  development 
integral  part  of 
international  cooperation  for  development  and 
it 
is  only  by  promoting  Africa’s  development  that  we 
can  facilitate  the  achievement  of  global  prosperity. 
The  international  community  should  attach  great 
importance to and carry out strategic cooperation with 
Africa.  In  that  connection,  China  wishes  to  make  the 
following proposals. 
First,  the  development  of  Africa  should  be  the 
priority  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The 
international  community  should  help  Africa  speed  up 
its attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. 
In  preparing 
the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
priority should be given to Africa’s needs. Developed 
countries should honour their commitments of official 
development  assistance,  provide  African  countries 
with financial and technical assistance and help them 
with  capacity-building.  Developing  countries  should 
strengthen South-South cooperation as a supplement to 
North-South cooperation. The international community 
should  work  to  improve  the  environment  for  Africa’s 
development,  including  by  increasing  its  financial 
assistance and supporting trade and debt reduction and 
cancellation. 
Secondly, 
international  community  must 
join  hands  to  help  West  African  countries  cope  with 
the  Ebola  epidemic.  The  current  outbreak  of  Ebola  is 
spreading  in  West  Africa,  posing  a  serious  threat  to 
local people’s lives and health. It has become a shared, 
non-traditional security challenge for the international 
community.  The  top  priority  is  to  implement  the 
United  Nations  strategy  in  response  to  Ebola  and 
strongly support the United Nations Mission for Ebola 
the 
16/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
Emergency  Response.  It  is  necessary  to  send  more 
medical  personnel  and  experts  to  the  affected  areas, 
provide protective gear and material, help treat affected 
individuals,  improve  screening  and  testing  capability 
and  help  local  communities  in  Ebola  prevention  and 
control.  Countries  should  also  increase  assistance  to 
Africa to help it enhance capacity-building in the area 
of public health. 
Thirdly, African countries’ efforts to realize peace 
and  stability  should  be  supported.  The  international 
community should uphold the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations, and, on the basis 
of  full  respect  for  the  sovereignty,  independence  and 
territorial integrity of the African countries concerned, 
it  should  actively  promote  peace  and  facilitate 
negotiations with a view to finding peaceful settlements 
to  disputes.  The 
international  community  should 
strengthen  coordination  and  collaboration  with  the 
African Union and other African regional organizations, 
help  Africa  strengthen  its  institution-building  in  the 
area  of  collective  security  and  support  the  settlement 
of African issues by Africans through African means. 
China and Africa have always been a community 
of shared destinies and good brothers. No matter how 
the international situation changes, China will always 
stand firmly with its African brothers. We will always 
be  Africa’s  most  reliable  and  trustworthy  friend. 
Strengthening  unity  and  cooperation  with  African 
countries has always been an important cornerstone of 
China’s foreign policy. In his visit to Africa in March, 
2013,  the  Chinese  President,  Mr.  Xi  Jinping,  put 
forward the guiding principle of sincerity, real results, 
affinity  and  good  faith  for  China’s  relations  with 
Africa,  which  provides  an  important  guide  to  further 
develop the China-Africa relationship and cooperation. 
In May, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang proposed the 461 
Framework  during  his  visit  to  Africa,  which  further 
enhances  the  level  of  cooperation  between  China  and 
Africa  and  deepens  the  new  strategic  partnership 
between the countries.
the  framework  of 
Since the founding of the China-Africa Cooperation 
Forum  in  2000,  China  has  actively  cooperated  with 
African  countries  within 
the 
Forum.  By  2012,  China  had  provided  assistance  to 
51 African countries and the African Union. In 2013, 
the  trade  volume  between  China  and  Africa  reached 
$220.2  billion.  China  has  been  Africa’s  number  one 
trade  partner  for  five  consecutive  years  and  China’s 
direct  investment  in  Africa  has  exceeded  $25  billion. 
The Chinese Government is actively implementing the 
assistance initiatives announced by President Xi Jinping 
and  Premier  Li  Keqiang  during  their  visit  to  Africa, 
which include extending to Africa $30 billion in credit 
over the course of three years, adding $2 billion to the 
China-Africa Development Fund, providing $10 million 
to  protect  wildlife  in  Africa  and  implementing  the 
Transnational 
Infrastructure 
Construction Corporation Partnership and the African 
Talents  Programme.  China  will  continue  to  support 
African  countries  in  their  efforts  to  combat  diseases, 
such as malaria and AIDS.
and  Transregional 
The Chinese Government has paid close attention 
to  the  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  West  Africa.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  year,  when  Ebola  first  appeared  in 
some West African countries, the Chinese Government 
immediately extended a helping hand. In April, August 
and September, we provided the two affected countries 
with humanitarian assistance totalling RMB 34 million, 
including supplies for prevention, control and treatment, 
food and cash. We also dispatched nearly 200 experts 
and medical personnel to the affected areas to fight the 
epidemic with the people of those countries. 
We  are  deeply  worried  about  the  worsening 
Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa.  Premier  Li  Keqiang 
announced at the Asia-Europe Summit in Milan, Italy, 
that  China  will  provide  to  West  African  countries  a 
fourth  instalment  of  assistance  worth  at  least  RMB 
100 million, including 60 ambulances, 100 motorcycles, 
10,000  prevention  and  control  kits  and  150,000  units 
of  personal  protective  gear.  In  addition,  China  will 
dispatch another group of dozens of experts and plans 
to  train  10,000  health-care  workers  and  community 
prevention  and  control  personnel.  As  we  speak,  the 
Ebola  epidemic  is  still  spreading  in  West  Africa.  We 
will  continue  to  stand  together  with  West  African 
countries in this time of need, jointly overcoming the 
difficulties,  and  will  continue  to  combat  the  disease 
until we have secured a final victory.
I would like to conclude by reiterating that China 
will continue to support NEPAD and the African Union’s 
programme for 2063 and to make greater contributions 
to promoting the development and prosperity of Africa.
Mr. Menan (Togo) (spoke in French): My delegation 
would  first  like  to  reiterate  its  congratulations  to  the 
President  on  his  accession  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  current  session  and  to  offer 
him its full support in his conduct of our work.
14-57494
17/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
In today’s meeting of the Assembly, my delegation 
-  which  associates  itself  fully  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Malawi on behalf of 
the Group of African States - would like to emphasize 
implementation of the initiative to roll back malaria in 
developing countries, particularly in Africa.
Sadly,  malaria  remains  a  serious  public  health 
problem in Africa in general and in Togo in particular. 
It is one of the major parasitic diseases in my country 
in  terms  both  of  morbidity  and  mortality,  owing  to 
climatic  conditions  that  are  particularly  favourable 
to  the  breeding  of  mosquitoes.  It  is  the  single  largest 
cause  of  doctor  visits,  hospitalization  and  death  in 
health  facilities  in  the  country.  Children  under  five 
and pregnant women are its most vulnerable targets. In 
2013,  for  instance,  approximately  881,600  cases  were 
reported  in  Togo,  of  which  40  per  cent  were  children 
under five. Over the same period, 4 per cent of deaths 
recorded in my country’s health facilities were related 
to the disease.
The  heavy  toll  that  malaria  takes  on  African 
children  continues  to  concern  regional  organizations, 
particularly the African Union. In a declaration adopted 
at the Special Summit on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria held in Abuja, in July 2013, it asked member 
States  to  take  urgentsteps  to  reduce  or  eliminate 
children’s  vulnerability,  considering  that  we  live  in  a 
time when effective diagnostic tools and treatments are 
available.
For its part, my country is implementing its third 
national  strategic  anti-malaria  plan,  for  2011-2015, 
based on meeting the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  and  on  universal  access  to  serious  treatment 
of the disease. Our five-year plan is supported by the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
in a project designed to strengthen universal access in 
Togo to malaria prevention and support services.
With  the  help  of  other  partners,  my  country  has 
begun  administring  sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine 
to 
pregnant  women,  managing  uncomplicated  cases  of 
malaria with combination therapies based on artemisinin 
derivatives both in health facilities and the community, 
and  routinely  distributing 
insecticide-treated  nets 
to  the  most  vulnerable  groups,  including  pregnant 
women and children under five. Since our 2005, 2006 
and  2008  national  campaigns  for  mass  re-treating 
of  ordinary  household  mosquito  nets,  we  have  added 
two  national  campaigns  for  distributing  long-lasting 
insecticide-treated mosquito nets, one in 2011 and the 
second,  most  recent,  in  September  2014.  They  have 
enabled  us  to  distribute  about  4  million  long-lasting 
treated nets all across the country.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to  thank  all  the  technical  and  financial  partners  who 
have  continued  to  support  Togo  in  the  fight  against 
malaria. Our goal now is to increase the people’s use of 
treated mosquito nets to at least 80 per cent, to ensure 
comprehensive protection for pregnant women through 
intermittent preventive treatment, and to deal promptly 
and properly with every confirmed case of malaria. To 
achieve  those  goals,  we  need  greater  involvement  on 
the  part  of  external  partners,  and  my  delegation  calls 
urgently on them to strengthen the global partnership 
against endemic diseases and the optimal mobilization 
of financial resources that it requires.
including  by 
At a time when our countries are working to improve 
their  health  systems, 
implementing 
programmes and strategies focused on the MDGs, the 
appearance in West Africa of the Ebola haemorrhagic 
fever virus has dealt a severe blow to the public health 
efforts of States dealing with limited resources. In the 
face  of  the  spread  of  this  epidemic,  whose  epicentre 
is  unfortunately  located  in  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and 
Guinea, my country hopes very much that, as with the 
mobilization  against  malaria,  the  solidarity  we  have 
seen  in  the  response  to  Ebola  -  demonstrated  by  the 
dispatching  of  health  workers,  financial  contributions 
and  the  provision  of  materials  and  equipment  -  will 
continue  and  will  lead  to  the  establishment  of  more 
sustainable and efficient health-care systems. It is only 
through sustained and coordinated efforts that we can 
stop the progression of the epidemic in West Africa and 
prevent it from spreading around the world.
Mr.  Chinyonga  (Zambia):  I  would  like  to  thank 
you,  Sir,  for  giving  me  the  floor  in  order  to  address 
today’s agenda item. 
Zambia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier by the Ambassador of Malawi on behalf of the 
African Group. 
Zambia  acknowledges 
the  Secretary-General’s 
reports  on  the  agenda  item.  They  coincide  not  only 
with  the  final  stretch  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  also  with  the 
ongoing  deliberations  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  the  sustainable  development  goals  and  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063.
18/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
While  significant  progress  has  been  recorded 
on  various  aspects  of  Africa’s  development,  as  the 
Secretary-General’s  reports  suggest,  a  lot  more  must 
be  done  to  sustain  and  build  on  the  gains  recorded 
so  far,  especially  in  the  area  of  health,  which  my 
statement  will  focus  on.  The  fight  against  HIV  and 
other  communicable  diseases  such  as  malaria  and 
tuberculosis should therefore be intensified. At the same 
time,  the  recently  escalating  danger  of  Ebola  disease 
must be controlled. In that regard, I should stress that 
my  delegation  has  already  expressed  its  concerns  in 
other General Assembly meetings during this session. 
Ebola is a danger whose potential consequences should 
not be underplayed in any forum.
Malaria  remains  a  major  public  health  concern 
in  Zambia.  It  disproportionately  affects  children 
under  the  age  of  five,  pregnant  women  and  society’s 
poor  and  vulnerable  members,  and  it  imposes  severe 
social and economic burdens on individual households 
and  communities  at  large.  My  Government  strongly 
believes that a malaria-free Zambia is possible. We have 
put policy and legal frameworks in place to ensure that 
there are no obstacles to efforts to eliminate malaria in 
Zambia.  The  Government  has  articulated  that  resolve 
in  major  national  development  policies,  notably  our 
national  health  policy  and  our  more  specific  national 
strategic plan for malaria. The Government’s strategies 
include  waiving  taxes  on  the  importation  of  malaria 
commodities such as mosquito nets and the chemicals 
used  in  indoor  residual  spraying  and  increasing  its 
budget allocations for malaria programmes.
indoor 
residual 
Currently, 
for  pregnant  women.  The 
the  main  prevention 
spraying, 
interventions 
include 
long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  nets  and  intermittent  presumptive 
treatment 
curative 
interventions  are  based  on  prompt  and  effective  case 
management, which is primarily focused on providing 
care for those suffering from malaria. A key component 
of that is the use of confirmatory diagnostic tools such 
as malaria rapid diagnostic tests and microscopy.
Zambia  has  made  remarkable  reductions  in  the 
incidence  of  malaria  over  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria,  which  has  been  attributed  to  the  integrated 
approach  of  malaria  control  activities.  To  that  end, 
my  country  has  leaned  on  the  ambitious  national 
malaria strategic plan for 2011-2015, to which I alluded 
previously.
The plan is envisioned to be implemented through 
the  use  of  surveillance  as  a  type  of  intervention,  in 
tandem with strengthening all other key interventions. 
It hopes to increase access to potential victims through 
the  use  of  community  structures  by  ensuring  the 
availability  of  all  required  commodities  and  through 
continued  monitoring  and  evaluation.  Community 
health  workers  are  critical  to  guaranteeing  access  to 
health  care  and  to  providing  holistic  and  integrated 
management of diseases including malaria, pneumonia 
and  so  forth.  Further,  the  response  involves  using 
community  leaders  and  opinion  makers  in  malaria 
control activities.
The  aforementioned  measures  have  resulted  in 
the establishment of strong institutional structures by 
the Government and its cooperating partners. Zambia 
has  joined  and  commends  the  linkages  created  at  the 
regional  and  international  levels  through  initiatives 
such  as  the  joint  regional  malaria  commemoration 
events 
the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  Malaria  Week,  formation 
of  regional  networks  to  attain  common  goals  in  the 
prevention and control of malaria such as the Southern 
Africa  Regional  Network,  and  the  establishment  of 
cross-border initiatives between countries in the region 
and beyond.
the  context  of 
in 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  underscore  the  overall 
positive impact created by the strong political will that 
can  be  seen  in  the  increased  budgetary  allocation  for 
funding  malaria  control  and  the  forging  of  additional 
new partnerships at all levels. In all the foregoing, we 
have  learned  that  scaling  up  the  integrated  package 
of  cost-effective  malaria  interventions  yields  positive 
outcomes. We believe that with more collaboration, we 
can do even better.
Mr.  Mamabolo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  as  well  as  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African  States.  Further,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express its appreciation to the President of the General 
Assembly for convening this meeting.
In addition, we would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  on  the  agenda  item,  as  they 
come at a critical time for us, with the target date for 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  fast  approaching 
and  as  we  prepare  to  enter  the  era  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  We  see  today’s  meeting  as  an 
opportunity to review what has been done since 2000 
and  to  align  the  post-2015  development  agenda  with 
14-57494
19/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
Africa’s own priorities going forward, as enshrined in 
Agenda  2063,  an  inspirational  and  aspirational  vision 
of  the  Africa  we  want,  and  as  outlined  in  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). 
said, 
the 
That  having  been 
international 
community  still  needs  to  make  every  effort  to  meet 
past  commitments  aimed  at  assisting  the  continent  in 
attaining  its  Millennium  Development  Goal  targets.  I 
also wish to take this opportunity to acknowledge with 
appreciation the coordinating role being played by the 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, which has seen 
us engage in a very successful Africa Week, focusing 
on  regional  collaboration  within  NEPAD  and  with 
international efforts through the United Nations. 
Our  continent  continues  to  make  progress  in 
infrastructure development through the implementation 
of  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development 
in  Africa  (PIDA)  and  the  Presidential  Infrastructure 
Champion  Initiative  (PICI)  chaired  by  South  Africa 
and spearheaded by seven dedicated Heads of State and 
Government. The P1CI is part of the PIDA, as it is an 
initiative to bring strategic political leadership to bear on 
fast-tracking the implementation of important projects 
from the PIDA Priority Action Plan by identifying and 
dealing with blockages, missing links and choke points. 
For  example,  progress  is  being  made  in  closing 
the missing link of the trans-Saharan highway project 
covering  4,500  kilometres  between  Algeria  and 
Nigeria, and $40 million has been secured towards its 
continued construction. It is expected to be completed 
in  2016.  The  fibre  optic  component  of  the  same 
project  has  seen  substantial  progress,  having  reached 
60 per cent of completion. Egypt recently held the first 
steering  committee  meeting  of  the  footprint  States 
of  the  navigational  route  between  Lake  Victoria  and 
the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Progress  also  continues  to  be 
made along the North-South corridor with a number of 
hard and soft infrastructure issues and projects being 
addressed.
One  of  the  key  impediments  that  the  Dakar 
Financing  Summit  for  Africa’s  Infrastructure  in  June 
2014  revealed,  however,  is  the  need  for  extensive 
support  in  the  area  of  capacity-building  for  project 
preparation. Projects have been identified and finance 
is  generally  waiting  for  bankable  projects  to  emerge 
from  the  project  pipeline,  but  the  key  bottleneck  is 
the  ability  to  bring  identified  projects  to  the  point  of 
bankability.  Africa  urgently  needs  support  to  address 
that key gap in the infrastructure development process.
Apart  from  infrastructure,  the  other  key  priority 
for African development is agriculture. My delegation 
would like to commend the African countries that have 
met  the  target  of  allocating  10  per  cent  of  national 
budgetary  resources  to  agriculture,  in  accordance 
with  the  African  Union  Assembly  decision  taken  in 
Maputo  in  2003.  Through  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme 
(CAADP), 
we  have  also  all  committed  ourselves  to  achieving  a 
6 per cent growth rate in agricultural productivity per 
annum.  Some  45  African  countries  are  now  engaged 
in  the  CAADP  process,  which  is  important  because 
agriculture  is  pivotal  to  Africa’s  transformation  and 
development and in responding to poverty, hunger and 
joblessness.  It  is  also  important  because  it  illustrates 
the idea that Africa is committed to leading and taking 
action on its agreed priorities and actions. The role of 
international partners is to help scale up and accelerate 
Africa’s own efforts. 
The  industrialization  of  agriculture  by  way  of 
agroprocessing  is  the  catalyst  that  will  spearhead 
structural 
is  one 
component  of  a  larger  drive  to  beneficiate  at  the 
source - to add value to our own resources rather than 
perpetually remaining suppliers of raw materials.
transformation.  Agroprocessing 
There is much more that can and must be done in 
the  health  sector,  however.  In  that  regard,  we  would 
like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  increased  long-
term  investment  in  health  technology  and  innovation. 
The horrific crisis currently posed by the Ebola virus in 
West Africa clearly illustrates the fact that it is in all our 
interests to ensure that Africa has a strong health system. 
It  also  clearly  demonstrates  the  link  between  health 
and  development,  as  the  virus  is  proving  devastating 
to  the  economies  and  social  progress,  particularly  to 
those of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, quite apart 
from the tragic loss of life. Therefore, we call upon the 
international community to rapidly increase all efforts 
to deal with the scourge of Ebola.
NEPAD always made the point that it is a holistic, 
integrated  agenda  that  is  premised  on  the  idea  that 
there  can  be  no  development  without  peace  and  no 
peace  without  development.  It  is  for  this  reason  that 
we continue to see Africa providing African solutions 
to  African  problems  through  mechanisms  such  as  the 
African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  and  the 
African  Capacity  for  Immediate  Response  to  Crises. 
Every effort is being made by African leaders to ensure 
peace,  security  and  stability  in  Africa,  including  by 
20/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
putting troops on the ground and providing resources. 
It  is  therefore  crucial  that  we  continue  to  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security 
Council.
In  order  to  foster  and  promote  good  political, 
economic, social and corporate governance in Africa, 
we  remain  committed  to  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism. I am informed now that membership has 
risen to 34 in 2014, and 17 countries have been reviewed 
to date. This system of self-assessment is unique in the 
world in terms of its transparency and its scope, and the 
underlying benefits cannot be overstated. We urge that 
support be given to countries that have been reviewed 
and have developed their national plans of action.
In  conclusion,  we  are  grateful  to  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Hassane  Mayaki,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the 
NEPAD Training and Coordination Agency, for all the 
work  that  he  and  the  Agency  have  done  and  continue 
to do. We all need to do more to support the work that 
he  and  the  Agency  do  in  terms  of  coordinating  and 
facilitating  the  implementation  of  Africa’s  identified 
priority  programmes  and  projects  as  a  key  technical 
body of the African Union.
Equally,  we  need  to  ensure  that  all  our  efforts 
are  aligned  to,  and  in  support  of,  the  realization  of 
Agenda 2063. We continue to appreciate the structured 
approach  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  supporting 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  as  the  socioeconomic 
development agenda of the African Union. In particular, 
the ongoing work, advocacy, cooperation, coordination 
and  support  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa,  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  in  that 
regard are much appreciated. Together we can — and 
must — still achieve a great deal to attain the Africa 
we all want and to establish and sustain growth and the 
good story of Africa rising.
Mr.  Okamura  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to say that it is a great privilege for me to speak 
at  this  meeting  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) because, until very recently, I 
was  in  Tokyo  and  deeply  involved  in  the  question  of 
African development through the process of the Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD)  and  the  elaboration  of  its  framework  for 
development assistance as Director-General for African 
Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I therefore 
feel  very  fortunate  and  vindicated  that  our  efforts 
through the TICAD process are duly and appropriately 
described in the Secretary-General’s report on NEPAD 
(A/69/161).  In  paragraph  58,  it  is  noted  that  the  first 
ministerial  meeting  of  the  fifth  Tokyo  International 
Conference on African Development (TICAD-V), held 
in Yaoundé in May, endorsed a massive Implementation 
Matrix that includes 617 concrete projects and illustrates 
the  willingness  and  passion  of 
international 
community to work for African development.
the 
TICAD-V,  held 
in  June,  was  not  simply  a 
conference about funds and figures. When I say “funds 
and  figures”,  I  am  referring  to  things  such  as  Japan’s 
commitment  to  provide  an  assistance  package  for 
Africa of up to $32 billion, utilizing private and public 
resources, from 2013 to 2017, of which Japan is already 
implementing  the  equivalent  of  roughly  $6  billion. 
Rather than focusing only on such funds and figures, 
mention  must  be  made  of  the  fact  that  TICAD-V 
mobilized  our  collective  political  will  and  developed 
a  robust  policy  framework  to  be  shared  by  African 
countries, Japan and the international community. That 
policy framework acknowledges three basic priorities. 
First, infrastructure construction and human resource 
development are essential for African economic growth. 
Secondly, agriculture needs to be made profitable, which 
is to say that it needs to develop past basic subsistence 
towards  economic  self-reliance  -  more  farm-to-earn, 
rather than farm-to-eat. Thirdly, trade and investment 
in the private sector should be encouraged in addition 
to official development assistance.
I  am  therefore  delighted  at  the  fact  that  those 
priorities  are  properly  reflected  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. I would like to express my appreciation 
for  the  hard  work  of  the  Under-Secretary-General 
and  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  Ambassador  Maged 
Abdelaziz,  as  well  as  the  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordination  Agency, 
Mr.  Ibrahim  Hassane  Mayaki.  In  addition,  I  would 
like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  roles  that 
Africa regional economic communities play in African 
development, which includes the achievement of peace 
and  stability.  In  that  connection,  last  month  in  New 
York, Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe held a round-
table  summit  with  the  Chairs  of  the  seven  African 
regional economic communities on the improvement of 
infrastructure in Africa.
We  reaffirm  another  principle  of  TICAD-V: 
prolonged  peace  and  stability  are  the  fundamental 
prerequisites for socioeconomic development in Africa. 
14-57494
21/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
As described in the discussion of the causes of conflict 
in the report of the Secretary-General (A/69/162), there 
are  several  alarming  cases  of  emerging  or  ongoing 
conflicts  in  Africa,  in  spite  of  the  very  important 
progress that has been made throughout the continent 
as a whole. Japan shares the serious concern about those 
issues and is making its own efforts in that regard. For 
example, Japan committed to providing $1 billion over 
five years for development and humanitarian assistance 
in  the  Sahel  region.  We  have  already  provided  more 
than  $220  million.  The  loss  of  peace  and  stability,  if 
they are not properly restored, can potentially set back 
the  great  strides  in  Africa’s  development,  making 
our  goal  of  eradicating  poverty  more  difficult  and 
ultimately  becoming  an  enormous  burden  on  society 
internationally. That is to say that we must take rapid 
action  to  quell  conflict,  stem  its  deterioration  and 
restore peace and stability.
I am greatly encouraged by the Secretary-General’s 
report, with its discussion of the causes of conflict and 
acknowledgment that African countries are enhancing 
their  own  efforts  to  tackle  the  issue.  I  would  like  to 
welcome  the  robust  efforts  by  the  African  Union  and 
the  regional  economic  communities  in  the  context 
of  strengthening  the  African  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture. That effort illustrates African ownership, 
the most fundamental principle of TICAD. Japan places 
great importance on the role of regional institutions in 
African development in the area of peace and stability.
I  said  that  rapid  action  was  very  important,  and 
that  is  also  applicable  in  the  health  sector.  Japan 
believes that emerging health crises such as the current 
Ebola outbreak in West Africa gravely jeopardize the 
well-being  and  development  of  Africa  and  need  to 
be  addressed  immediately  and  with  a  sense  of  great 
urgency. At the high-level event on the response to the 
ebola virus disease outbreak, held during the week of 
the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-ninth  session,  Prime 
Minister  Abe  pledged  additional  assistance  totalling 
$40  million  in  order  to  reinforce  measures  already 
announced.  Japan  has  already  allocated  $22  million 
of  that  pledge  to  relevant  international  organizations 
and is now considering how to allocate the remaining 
$18 million.
I  would  also  like  to  touch  upon  another  theme  of 
today’s  debate:  malaria.  We  welcome  the  significant 
progress  made  in  responding  to  malaria  in  many 
countries.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  concerned  about 
the continuing high burden of the disease in a number 
of countries. Last year, Japan announced that it would 
make a contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria in the amount of $800 million 
in the coming years, starting in 2014. We believe our 
contribution  to  the  Global  Fund  will  strongly  support 
African countries’ efforts to fight malaria.
I would like to conclude my remarks by expressing 
strong  appreciation  and  support  for  the  activities 
of  Africa  Week.  There  are  lots  of  themes  and  very 
important  issues  are  being  taken  up,  but  I  would  like 
to  stress  the  importance  of  resilience  with  regard  to 
natural  disasters,  including  droughts  and  floods  in 
Africa.  Japan  will  host  the  Third  World  Conference 
on Disaster Reduction, in March 2015. I would like to 
invite  attendance  from  all  Member  States,  including 
African countries, at the highest possible level.
Mr. Narang (India): It is a distinct honour for India 
to  participate  today  in  this  important  debate  on  the 
development and welfare of Africa.
As  a  common  expression  of  the  collective  vision 
for  the  socioeconomic  development  of  Africa,  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
has  made  commendable  progress.  India  attaches  high 
importance  to  the  main  objective  of  NEPAD,  which 
is  to  generate  broad-based  and  equitable  economic 
growth  that  allows  Africa  to  reduce  poverty  and  be 
better integrated into the global economy.
Africa has made impressive progress in achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  even 
though  progress  remains  uneven  and  halting.  Many 
of the Goals and targets remain unmet, and a renewed 
effort  and  final  push  is  required  in  the  final  year  to 
overcome challenges. As the international community 
negotiates a new development agenda for the post-2015 
period,  it  is  time,  we  believe,  for  us  to  collectively 
recommit  ourselves  to  giving  the  highest  importance 
to  the  interests  of  Africa.  The  needs  and  priorities 
of  Africa  must  be  at  the  centre  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Sustained and robust inclusive economic growth is 
indispensable for eradicating poverty, and is therefore 
also  a  central  policy  objective.  One  of  the  Secretary-
General’s reports on this agenda item (A/69/161) shows 
that  aggregate  African  growth  grew  1  per  cent  faster 
than  the  global  average  in  2013.  Furthermore,  the 
African Economic Outlook 2014 forecasts that economic 
growth in Africa will pick up to the pre-crisis level of 
6.5  per  cent.  That  is  welcome.  Yet  economic  growth 
22/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
would need to pick up considerably for Africa to make 
a sustained dent in poverty levels.
To  sustain  that  growth  momentum,  continued 
and enhanced support to the NEPAD priorities by the 
international community is vital. Scaled-up investments 
in  infrastructure,  both  economic  and  social,  and  in 
productive  capacity  for  industrial  development  are 
needed. That is an area of priority for India’s partnership 
with Africa as well.
The report of the Secretary-General correctly points 
out that a strengthened and sustained global partnership 
is  of  critical  importance  for  Africa  to  sustain  recent 
development  gains  and  accelerate  progress  towards 
reaching  the  MDGs.  The  commitments  made  by  the 
international  community  must  be  met  at  the  earliest 
possible  time.  While  official  development  assistance 
(ODA)  disbursements  to  Africa  increased  marginally 
in 2013, the share of Africa in ODA allocations remains 
unchanged,  and  the  overall  ODA  levels,  as  we  know, 
remain far short of the 0.7 per cent mark.
The  issue  of  debt  sustainability,  which  is  at  the 
centre  stage  of  discussions  during  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  is  of  critical  concern  to  Africa. 
International  Monetary  Fund  analysis  suggests  that 
almost  20  per  cent  of  African  countries  are  at  a  high 
risk  of  debt  distress.  In  that  context,  the  mandate  of 
resolution  68/304  for  a  multilateral  legal  framework 
for  sovereign  debt  restructuring  processes  acquires 
significance.
The debate today comes at a time when countries 
in  Africa  are  confronted  with  what  the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) has called the most severe acute 
public health emergency in modern times. The serious 
challenge and threat posed by the outbreak of the deadly 
Ebola virus in West Africa requires urgent coordinated 
action by the international community.
India has an established track record of participating 
actively  in  multilateral  efforts  to  tackle  public  health 
emergencies, such as in our response to the HIV/AIDS 
issue a decade ago in Africa and Asia. In the current 
crisis, India provided immediate financial assistance to 
three of the affected countries - Sierra Leone, Liberia 
and the Republic of Guinea - and offered $500,000 to 
the WHO to scale up its efforts. Subsequently, India has 
followed this up with a contribution of $10 million to 
the Secretary-General’s Ebola Response Multi-Partner 
Trust Fund and an additional $2 million for the purchase 
of protective gear to tackle Ebola.
India. 
The  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  NEPAD 
(A/69/161)  confirms  the  continued  growth  of  Africa’s 
engagement  and  cooperation  with 
Indian 
in  Africa  has  expanded  considerably 
investment 
and,  as  the  report  confirms,  provides  benefits  to  the 
African economy in sectors as diverse as information 
and 
automobiles, 
pharmaceuticals,  engineering,  energy  and  chemicals, 
to  name  but  a  few.  Today’s  India’s  partnership  with 
Africa is multifaceted. What is more, that partnership 
is aligned with Africa’s own development priorities and 
road maps.
communication 
technologies, 
Having  grown  at  a  robust  31.8  per  cent  annually 
between  2005  and  2011,  India’s  trade  with  Africa, 
cumulatively,  was  estimated  to  be  over  $72  billion  in 
2013-2014.  Indian  investment  in  Africa  is  estimated 
to  be  over  $35  billion.  During  the  past  decade,  India 
extended more than $6.7 billion worth of concessional 
lines  of  credit  to  African  countries,  which  in  fact 
comprises  over  two  thirds  of  the  total  lines  of  credit 
extended by India. Thousands of African students and 
experts  have  availed  themselves  of  training  facilities 
in  India  under  various  schemes,  including  the  Indian 
Technical and Economic Cooperation Programme last 
year.  During  the  same  period,  a  number  of  capacity-
building institutions were set up, and several others are 
being set up.
India  has  also  been  a  steady  contributor  to  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  on  the  African 
continent  since  1960.  At  present,  over  6,500  Indian 
peacekeepers  are  deployed  in  Africa.  Over  the  years, 
India’s  committed  participation  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  in  Africa  has  helped  many  African 
countries to cope with inter- and intra-State conflicts, 
weak  institutions  and  collapsing  economies,  besides 
assisting  in  the  resettlement  of  millions  of  internally 
displaced people.
In conclusion, allow me to reiterate India’s abiding 
commitment  to  deepen  and  strengthen  its  partnership 
with  Africa  for  the  attainment  of  the  development 
priorities  identified  by  the  African  countries  under 
NEPAD. India will also attach high importance to the 
interests of Africa in the post-2015 development agenda.
Mr.  Annakou  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his  reports  (A/69/161,  A/69/162  and  A/69/163)  on  the 
agenda  items  under  discussion.  I  would  also  like  to 
thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz, 
the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser on Africa, and 
14-57494
23/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  Planning  and 
Coordination  Agency  for  all  the  efforts  that  they  are 
making on behalf of Africa. 
I  would  like  to  express  the  solidarity  of  my 
delegation  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group.
NEPAD, which was launched more than a decade 
ago, is one of the main instruments that emphasizes the 
commitment of African leaders and countries to advance 
the continent through a real partnership. That partnership 
will  realize  the  African  vision  as  a  progressive  and 
developed  continent  that  provides  a  dignified  life  for 
its  people  and  contributes  to  international  peace  and 
security.  Despite  all  the  progress  achieved  over  the 
past years in promoting development, economic growth 
and social development, thereby achieving many of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the continent 
still faces many obstacles and challenges preventing it 
from achieving others, especially in the fields of health, 
water and sanitation and energy.
In  view  of  the  great  challenges  facing  Africa  -  
whether in trying to achieve the remaining Millennium 
Development  Goals  or  in  achieving  the  sustainable 
development goals that will constitute the focus of the 
post-2015  development  agenda  -  Africa  requires  that 
developed countries fulfil the commitments they made 
to  it  during  the  main  conferences  held  by  the  United 
Nations.  Those  commitments 
include  supporting 
African countries by helping them to achieve economic 
stability,  attracting  investment,  with  effective  private 
sector 
technology 
transfer,  notably  in  the  field  of  poverty  eradication, 
which  remains  a  very  pressing  issue.  Therefore, 
more  efforts  should  be  made  to  increase  agricultural 
production, in accordance with the Maputo Declaration 
on Agriculture and Food Security, while reorganizing 
priorities  and  using  technology  and  investment  in 
agriculture to provide food for all the inhabitants of the 
continent in appropriate quantities and quality.
involvement,  and 
facilitating 
With regard to development, where the individual 
is  the  main  instrument  and  goal,  I  would  like  to 
refer  to  the  grave  health  situation  in  Africa  owing 
to  the  widespread  existence  of  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases,  in  particular  the  lethal 
disease  Ebola.  Currently,  some  10,000  people  may 
be  infected  weekly  in  West  Africa.  That  means  that 
a great danger is really threatening Africans and may 
find its way to other countries around the world, while 
Africa, with its modest capabilities, cannot contain it. 
Therefore, it is imperative and urgent that we mobilize 
all our efforts and technologies to combat the epidemic 
before  Ebola  destroys  the  population  of  Africa  and 
becomes widespread all over the world.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security  in  Africa,  we 
need  to  increase  institutional  cooperation,  prevent 
disputes, maintain peace, ensure human rights, achieve 
disarmament  and  consolidate  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law and good governance in order to achieve political 
and economic stability in Africa.
In conclusion, my delegation would like to stress that 
Libya - despite the dire security situation and instability 
prevailing  in  our  country,  and  with  our  economy  and 
development  coming  to  a  standstill  -  would  like  to 
work  very  effectively,  once  we  recover,  with  African 
countries to move NEPAD forward in order to achieve 
progress, growth, and prosperity for African countries. 
We  would  achieve  that  through  coordination,  joint 
work  and  commitment  by  means  of  the  cooperation 
conventions  that  have  been  signed  with  a  number  of 
African countries. That will enable us to implement the 
remaining MDGs and prepare ourselves to achieve the 
post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda,  especially 
since Africa is very rich in young human resources and 
vast natural resources that will enable it, once they are 
put  to  good  use,  to  achieve  Africa’s  ambitious  vision 
of becoming a very progressive continent, one able to 
contribute positively to the progress of humankind - its 
stability, happiness, prosperity and well-being.
Mr. Benhamadi (Algeria): At the outset, allow me 
to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this  important 
meeting and to extend a warm welcome to Mr. Ibrahim 
Hassane  Mayaki,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
Training and Coordination Agency. Algeria welcomes 
the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on  NEPAD 
(A/69/161)  and  the  insights  it  provides.  We  also  wish 
to  thank  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa 
and  its  skilled  and  devoted  team,  headed  by  Under-
Secretary-General  Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz,  for 
their valuable work in enhancing international support 
for  Africa’s  development  thanks  to  its  advocacy  and 
analytical work.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Malawi  on 
behalf of the African Group.
24/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
Launched  in  Abuja  in  2001  to  spearhead  the 
African  Renaissance,  the  idea  of  NEPAD  was  born 
out  of  the  political  imperative  for  Africans  to  rely 
primarily upon themselves to lift the continent out of 
poverty and to bring to an end the marginalization of 
Africa from the globalization process. For that purpose, 
NEPAD  has  placed  the  questions  of  peace,  security, 
democracy,  good  governance,  human  rights,  women’s 
empowerment and sound economic management at the 
heart  of  sustainable  development.  While  recognizing 
the  political,  economic  and  social  difficulties  that 
have beset Africa’s development for decades, NEPAD 
is  also  the  expression  of  Africa’s  will  to  establish  a 
new partnership anchored in the principles of African 
leadership and, above all, ownership.
As the international community is about to embark 
on the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda, 
it  is  crucial  that  Africa  be  given  special  attention  in 
the process. For its part, over a year ago, the African 
Union (AU) successfully adopted the Common African 
Position (CAP) on the post-2015 development agenda. In 
addition to reaffirming the Rio principles, in particular 
that  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities, 
CAP  also  reiterates  the  principles  of  the  right  to 
development  and  equity,  mutual  accountability  and 
responsibility. CAP will also ensure a policy space for 
nationally tailored policies and programmes for Africa, 
including  appropriate  support  for  the  implementation 
of NEPAD. Moreover, by adopting peace and security 
as  its  fifth  pillar,  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  and 
inclusive development that truly leaves no one behind, 
CAP  also  gives  special  attention  to  peoples  living  in 
States  experiencing  or  recovering  from  high  levels  of 
violence.
After  a  decade  of  implementation,  NEPAD,  as  a 
programme of the African Union, has produced a number 
of encouraging results. The promotion of infrastructure 
development as a driving force for Africa’s integration 
and  development  led  to  the  adoption  in  2010  of  the 
Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa 
by the AU Heads of State. 
With  respect  to  the  implementation  of  the  project 
championed  by  Algeria  to  complete  the  trans-Sahara 
highway  and  gas  pipeline,  which  would  link  Algeria 
and Nigeria, we are pleased to note that the securing of 
$40 million to finance the missing link of the highway 
project,  covering  more  than  4,500  kilometres,  will 
allow the project to be completed by 2016. We also note 
with satisfaction that the optic fibre component of the 
project,  linking  Algeria,  the  Niger  and  Nigeria,  has 
witnessed substantial progress, with 60 per cent of the 
project  completed.  Furthermore,  significant  progress 
has also been made within the Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme 
(CAADP), 
which  aims  at  achieving  a  6  per  cent  growth  rate  in 
the agricultural sector through the allocation of 10 per 
cent  of  national  budgets.  Today,  45  countries  have 
committed  themselves  to  CAADP,  of  which  39  have 
already adopted a national agriculture investment plan.
Although there has been progress in the past year in 
accelerating growth and social development, persistent 
challenges,  including  limited  progress  towards  the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  linger.  Therefore,  sustained  international 
support will be crucial if Africa is to meet internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  and  through  a 
global partnership for development. To that end, we call 
on development partners to pursue efforts to deliver on 
their commitments to Africa, including those relating 
to  official  development  assistance,  which  witnessed  a 
decline of 5.6 per cent in 2013. All stakeholders need to 
make a strong push in favour of Africa’s development, 
the  only  region  that  is  unlikely  to  attain  the  MDGs 
by  2015.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s report on the review of the implementation of 
the commitments made towards Africa’s development 
(A/69/163), as it is likely to encourage efforts towards 
their full realization.
We know too well that the world’s prosperity cannot 
be achieved without that of Africa. Africa’s efforts to 
eradicate  poverty  and  hunger,  create  jobs  and  ensure 
sustainable  development  must  be  complemented  by 
sustained support from our international development 
partners.  As  the  international  community  pursues  its 
work  in  defining  the  new  agenda,  ensuring  that  its 
efforts  fully  reflect  African  needs  and  priorities  will 
go  a  long  way  towards  strengthening  the  continent’s 
progress  while  consolidating  its  recent  development 
gains.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe 
in 
French):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  associate  myself 
with the statement made by the Ambassador of Malawi 
on behalf of the African Group.
(Cameroon) 
(spoke 
I would also like to commend the Secretary-General 
for  the  quality  of  reports  being  considered  under  the 
agenda items for this meeting (A/69/161, A/69/162 and 
A/69/163.
14-57494
25/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
With  regard  to  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  we  should  emphasize  that 
today’s  debate  takes  place  in  a  context  marked  by  a 
broad scope of various processes that impact Africa’s 
development.  First,  I  should  like  to  mention  the 
successful conclusion of the work of the Open Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, which  the 
report rightly mentions, as do other reports concerning 
particular situations in African countries, as does the 
policy  statement  on  African  development  needs  and 
NEPAD. I should also note the publication of the report 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable Development Financing (A/69/315), which 
emphasizes the need to give substance to our financing 
commitments,  notably  the  funding  of  development  in 
Africa.
The Secretary-General emphasizes quite pertinently 
that the publication of his report on NEPAD coincides 
with 
the  Dakar  Financing  Summit  for  Africa’s 
Infrastructure,  held  on  14  and  15  June,  in  which 
participants adopted the Programme for Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  (PIDA)  for  financing  priority 
regional infrastructure projects. He also mentions the 
solemn declaration adopted at the twenty-first Summit 
of  the  African  Union  on  26  May  to  mark  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  organization,  in  which  the  main 
priorities  for  the  development  programme  in  Africa 
were  identified  for  the  next  50  years,  with  particular 
emphasis on industrialization.
Allow  me  to  comment  on  two  issues  crucial  to 
Africa’s  development,  namely, 
infrastructure  and 
industrialization.  The  lack  of  infrastructure  is  one 
of  the  major  challenges  we  face,  in  that  it  seriously 
undermines  Africa’s  integration  and  competitiveness 
in  the  global  market.  That  deficit  also  mortgages 
development  efforts  and  efforts  to  integrate  Africa 
in  socioeconomic  and  environmental  areas.  In  that 
regard, my delegation welcomes the acceleration of the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa, launched in 2010 as a strategic 
framework  for 
infrastructure 
at  regional  and  continental  scales.  Nevertheless,  as 
astutely  underlined  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
the financing of PIDA remains a challenge.
the  development  of 
In that respect, I welcome the presidential initiative 
on the NEPAD infrastructure. The initiative establishes 
a  model  policy  framework  on  interregional  priority 
infrastructure  projects  taken  on  board  personally  by 
seven African Heads of State and Government. In the 
same  spirit,  the  Dakar  programme  of  action  proposes 
speeding up the implementation of pilot infrastructure 
projects.  Finally,  I  am  pleased 
the 
African  Development  Bank’s  launch  of  the  Africa  50 
initiative to mobilize more than $100 billion from the 
public and private sectors to finance priority regional 
infrastructure  projects  on  the  continent  over  the  next 
50 years.
to  highlight 
economic 
With  regard  to  industrialization,  my  delegation 
considers it essential that the structural transformation 
of  African  economies  will  create  added  value 
and 
Industrialization 
is  a  powerful  tool  capable  of  generating  inclusive 
and  sustainable  economic  development  leading  to 
productive  employment  and  decent  work  and,  finally, 
to lifting millions out of poverty.
diversification. 
tends 
As  highlighted  by  several  reports,  the  closed 
structure  of  most  African  economies 
to 
concentrate  economic  activity  in  the  mining  sector 
and the production of raw materials, without any real 
impact on other sectors. In that context, with respect to 
sub-Saharan Africa, the report of the Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing  notes  that  foreign  direct  investment  is 
primarily  in  the  extractive  industries,  with  limited 
impact  on  the  rest  of  the  economy.  That  situation 
generates few jobs, as it directs wealth to those sectors 
rich  in  natural  resources,  promotes  inequality  and 
contributes to social unrest.
To  overcome  that  problem,  Africa  has  no  choice 
other  than  industrialization  and  building  production 
capacity.  The  recognition  of  that  reality  in  Agenda 
2063  and  in  the  report  of  the  Open  Working  Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  provides  reason 
for hope. Industrialization will help African countries 
strengthen domestic resource mobilization through the 
establishment of wealth and taxation systems, which in 
turn can help in achieving other development goals.
In  view  of  the  foregoing,  national  efforts  to 
strengthen 
fabric  and  continental 
priorities  set  out  in  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa should be supported.
industrial 
the 
The  integration  of  NEPAD  priorities  into  the 
national development programmes of African countries 
is a cause for satisfaction. With particular reference to 
Cameroon, several initiatives have been undertaken in 
the past 12 months. I will mention just a few examples.
With  regard  to  agriculture,  a  few  months  ago 
the  Government  of  Cameroon  approved  its  national 
agricultural  investment  plan,  which  seeks  to  invest 
26/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
more  than  $6.5  billion  in  agricultural  development 
over a seven-year period. Cameroon aims to mobilize 
58 per cent of that sum on its own, in accordance with 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme, which we signed on 17 July 2013. As part 
of the implementation of the Programme, the NEPAD 
Agency  has  partnered  with  Cameroon’s  Dschang 
University  to  conduct  training  and  capacity-building 
in the management of agricultural risks in the Central 
African  subregion.  Similarly,  Cameroon  is  one  of  the 
six countries that conducted a study on best practices 
in  adapting  agricultural  systems  to  climate  change. 
Moreover,  in  the  area  of  gender,  Cameroon  is  one  of 
the  five  African  countries  that  launched  a  five-year 
programme to support efforts on gender, climate change 
and agriculture.
With regard to science, technology and innovation, 
Cameroon  has  maintained  its  active  role  in  Africa’s 
Science and Technology Consolidated Plan of Action, 
including through the African science, technology and 
innovation indicators initiative, in which Cameroon is 
one of the pioneers.
With  respect  to  health,  Cameroon  is  taking  part 
in the second phase of the project to train nurses and 
midwives in Africa, whose main objective is to improve 
the skills of nurses and midwives at the graduate school 
level, and particularly the professional masters level.
In  terms  of  subregional  integration,  on  21  and 
22  October  2013,  Cameroon  hosted  the  fifth  session 
of the subregional coordination mechanism on United 
Nations system support to the African Union and NEPAD 
in Central Africa. In those meetings, 116 projects were 
approved  for  the  period  2013-2016  in  the  following 
areas:  infrastructure  development,  governance,  peace 
and  security,  industrial  development,  trade,  market 
access,  agriculture  and  food  security,  science  and 
technology, 
employment, 
training  and  improving  institutional  frameworks  for 
development.
combating  HIV/AIDS, 
international 
Cameroon  takes  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
analysis  of 
for  African 
development.  According  to  his  report,  “The  response 
of  the  international  community  has  been  mixed”. 
(A/69/161, para. 52)
support 
With  regard  to  official  development  assistance 
(ODA),  although  preliminary  figures  indicate  a  5  per 
cent  increase  in  assistance  to  Africa,  our  continent 
receives  only  38  per  cent  of  total  ODA,  a  situation 
that  the  Secretary-General  said  did  not  comply  with 
the  declared  commitment  to  prioritize  Africa  in 
the  distribution  of  such  assistance.  Moreover,  the 
commitments made at Gleneagles in 2005 by the Group 
of  Eight  to  double  the  amount  of  assistance  to  Africa 
are far from being honoured.
The debt burden has gravely undermined the efforts 
of  developing  countries  to  achieve  the  sustainable 
development  goals.  Several 
initiatives  have  been 
implemented to date to resolve that problem, such as the 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC) 
and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. Despite the 
positive impact of those initiatives, we share the view 
of the Secretary-General that debt forgiveness alone is 
not a miracle cure for the development problems of the 
HIPC  countries.  While  it  is  a  necessary  condition,  it 
remains insufficient and requires additional assistance 
in  both  financing  for  development  and  capacity-
building.
Africa’s  access  to  global  markets  and  fair  trade 
are  of  the  highest  importance  for  the  continent.  As 
mentioned  in  the  Agreement  Establishing  the  World 
Trade Organization (WTO),
“there  is  need  for  positive  efforts  designed  to 
ensure  that  developing  countries,  and  especially 
the least developed among them, secure a share in 
the  growth  in  international  trade  commensurate 
with the needs of their economic development”.
Furthermore, international trade has been identified 
as one of the six fundamental areas whereby developing 
countries can mobilize financing for development. The 
outcome  document  of  Rio+20  refers  to  international 
trade  as  a  driver  for  development  and  sustained 
economic  growth.  However,  the  current  situation 
remains  a  matter  of  grave  concern  for  Africa,  which 
accounts for only 3 per cent of the global export market.
We welcome the adoption of the first multilateral 
trade  agreement,  approved  by  the  WTO  on  the 
occasion  of  the  ninth  ministerial  conference  held  in 
Bali in December 2013. We hope that provisions for its 
facilitation will be beneficial for Africa on account of 
the reduction in customs duties that might come from 
it. Nevertheless, my delegation remains of the view that 
the  Doha  Round,  the  third  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development  and  the  post-2105 
development agenda must guarantee a favourable trade 
system for development in order to reduce measures that 
distort  trade;  improve  the  access  of  African  products 
to  markets;  build  trade  capacity,  including  through 
14-57494
27/30
A/69/PV.26 
17/10/2014
the diversification of exports; and, finally, in order to 
develop intra-African trade.
Let  me  conclude  my  remarks  with  a  word  about 
the  United  Nations  support  for  NEPAD.  Cameroon 
welcomes the strengthening of the regional coordinating 
mechanism  of  United  Nations  organizations  and 
agencies  working  in  Africa  in  support  of  the  African 
Union, NEPAD and the cluster system. It is encouraging, 
as  recalled  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  to 
see that the fifteenth session of the mechanism, which 
took place in March in Abuja, highlighted the need for 
all cluster groups of the mechanism to be aligned with 
the strategic vision of the African Union, the strategic 
plans of NEPAD for 2014-2017 and Agenda 2063.
Cameroon  notes,  as  indicated  by  the  Secretary-
General in paragraph 17 of his report (A/69/163), that 
there  was  insufficient  time  for  the  method  used  for 
the  first  biennial  review  and  therefore  the  method 
should be revised in the future. In that regard, the role 
played by the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, 
for  which  we  reiterate  our  strong  support,  remains 
crucial. Its strengthening, decided by resolution 68/247 
A  should,  I  am  sure,  help  make  it  more  effective  in 
carrying  out  its  mandates.  We  have  no  doubt  that  it 
will meet our expectations in implementing resolution 
66/293,  in  particular  the  satisfactory  operation  of  the 
monitoring mechanism to review the compliance with 
the commitments made towards Africa’s development. 
Africa Week - the whole week that has just past - has 
shown us all what the Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa can do. We thank it for its efforts.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  2011  (XX),  of  11  October 
1965,  and  decision  56/475,  of  15  August  2002,  I  now 
call on the observer of the African Union.
Mr. Mayaki (African Union): I have the honour to 
speak on behalf of the African Union.
I  am  pleased  to  warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Sam 
Kahamba  Kutesa  on  his  election  as  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session. 
We  are  confident  that  his  tenure  will  witness  global 
recommitment to durable peace, inclusive development 
and cooperation.
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  is  central  to  the  continent’s  transformation 
efforts.  African  leaders  have  renewed  the  necessary 
political  determination  to  help  deliver  the  accelerated 
implementation of NEPAD under the African Union.
The foundation for Africa’s renewal is premised on 
reforms  of  the  governance  systems  under  the  African 
Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), created in 2003. The 
Mechanism  is  the  epicenter  for  deepening  democracy 
and disseminating best practices among African Union 
member  States,  thereby  reflecting  the  commitment  to 
improving governance in all its ramifications.
(spoke in French)
Thirty-four  States  members  of  the  African  Union 
have  voluntarily  joined  the  Mechanism,  17  have  been 
peer  reviewed  and  the  second  cycle  of  the  review 
process is ongoing.
(spoke in English)
At  the  institutional  level,  the  APRM  is  being 
re-engineered,  with  its  integration  into  the  African 
Union  and  the  development  of  stronger  collaboration 
and  synergy  with  relevant  regional  organizations  and 
programmes.  In  that  regard,  the  APRM  secretariat 
has  been  repositioned  to  effectively  serve  as  Africa’s 
premier institution on governance.
As  the  technical  body  of  the  African  Union,  the 
NEPAD Agency focuses on the strategic coordination 
of  the  implementation  of  the  continent’s  priority 
programmes  and  projects.  That  role  is  now  more 
critical  in  the  context  of  the  African  Union  Agenda 
2063  and  the  African  Common  Position  on  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
NEPAD continues to spearhead the implementation 
of the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development 
Programme.  With  2014  having  been  declared  as  the 
year  for  transforming  Africa’s  agriculture  and  food 
security, we are taking forward the Malabo Declaration 
adopted by the African Union Summit in June 2014 and 
forging a strategy for 2025. In addition to scaling up our 
efforts to increase agriculture investment financing by 
upholding the Maputo 10 per cent public spending target, 
we have a strong accountability and results framework. 
In  collaboration  with  the  African  Union  Commission 
and  development  partners,  the  NEPAD  Agency  is 
also  implementing  the  Climate-Smart  Agriculture 
and Gender and Climate Change Support Programme. 
Furthermore,  we  have  established 
the  African 
Climate-Smart Agriculture coordination platform with 
regional economic communities, development partners 
and non-governmental organizations. The ultimate goal 
is  to  reach  a  target  of  25  million  farm  households  by 
2025.
28/30 
14-57494
17/10/2014 
A/69/PV.26
Infrastructure  development  remains  a  critical 
enabler  for  sustainable  and  inclusive  growth,  while 
the  current  economic  landscape  provides  a  unique 
opportunity  to  collectively  address  the  infrastructure 
deficit.  Under  the  leadership  of  President  Macky  Sall 
of  the  Republic  of  Senegal  and  NEPAD  Chair,  the 
Dakar  Financing  Summit  for  Africa’s  Infrastructure 
was convened in June. With the support of the African 
Union  Commission,  the  African  Development  Bank, 
the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the World 
Bank,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  and  the  Japan  International  Cooperation 
Agency, the landmark Summit inspired the mobilization 
of  investment  towards  the  construction  of  modern 
infrastructure,  starting  with  16  identified  projects 
from  the  Priority  Action  Plan  of  the  Programme  for 
Infrastructure Development in Africa.
Based  on  the  Dakar  Agenda  for  Action  and  the 
Presidential Infrastructure Champion Initiative, chaired 
by President Jacob Zuma of South Africa, the NEPAD 
Agency 
is  focusing  on  accelerating  development 
corridors  and 
infrastructure  project  preparation 
in  cooperation  with  the  Africa50,  operated  by  the 
African Development Bank. The collective support of 
the African private sector in Africa and worldwide is 
necessary  to  effectively  raise  the  required  investment 
resources  to  implement  the  regional  infrastructure 
projects.
Overall, 
the  NEPAD  Agency  has  continued 
its  programmatic  coordination  by  designing  and 
implementing the Science, Technology and Innovation 
Strategy  for  Africa  for  2014-2024;  and  the  African 
Medicines  Regulatory  Harmonization 
framework, 
which  is  aimed  at  increasing  timely  access  to  high-
quality and efficacious medicines in order to boost the 
implementation of the Africa medicine manufacturing 
plan.
The  place  for  a  new  Africa  in  the  global  arena  is 
vital to durable peace, stability, progress and security. 
The post-2015 development agenda can be catalytic to 
Africa’s efforts only if the whole programming approach 
is informed by the understanding that development is a 
process of empowerment and self-reliance.
But key challenges still abound in Africa. A case 
in  point  is  the  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa,  which 
compels  the  imperative  for  united  global  action  and 
solidarity.  A  swift,  collective  and  well-coordinated 
policy  response  is  vital,  and  we  therefore  welcome 
the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency 
Response.  That  challenge  shows  us  the  importance 
of  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  public  health 
systems in many African countries. The multisectoral 
dimensions of addressing public health issues, including 
malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and Ebola, cannot be 
over-emphasized.
It  is  in  that  context  that  the  African  Union  will 
launch  Agenda  2063  as  a  long-term  strategy.  Africa 
devoted the past 50 years to defeating colonialism and 
apartheid.  The  African  Union  believes  that  the  next 
50  years  should  focus  on  structural  transformation 
and  inclusive  development  for  socioeconomic  change 
to happen. With seven aspirations prioritized, Agenda 
2063 is a call to action to fulfil Africa’s development 
objectives.
Importantly,  Africa  will  be  working  with  the 
international  community  on  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”.  The  overriding  factor  is  that  the  new  global 
agenda  must  support  and  complement  Africa’s  own 
priorities  and  development  efforts.  In  particular, 
the  target  of  ending  extreme  poverty  through  a 
multidimensional approach is critical for Africa and is 
fundamental  to  the  implementation  and  delivery  of  a 
second decade of NEPAD.
We  are  convinced 
that  structural  economic 
transformation  will  help  defeat  extreme  poverty.  The 
evolving  commitment  to  strengthen  the  means  of 
implementation and build stronger global partnerships 
is a defining approach that NEPAD embraces. Recently, 
our  leaders  endorsed  the  establishment  of  the  Africa 
Global Partnership Platform as an umbrella mechanism 
for  new  and  existing  international  partners  of  the 
continent.
Finally,  we  appreciate  the  continued  international 
support  of  Member  States  and  agencies  for  NEPAD 
implementation. The inspiring leadership and strategic 
steering of the work of the United Nations by Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon is commendable.
We  welcome 
the  United  Nations  monitoring 
mechanism, adopted by resolution 66/293, to review the 
delivery of commitments to Africa’s development as a 
step in the right direction. We commit to supporting the 
mechanism  through  the  measures  put  in  place  by  the 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa. Let me thank 
Under-Secretary-General  Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz,  as 
well as ECA and UNDP, for their very strong support.
The NEPAD Agency and APRM, as key institutions 
of  the  African  Union,  recommit  to  sustaining  the 
partnership and cooperation with the United Nations.
14-57494
29/30
A/69/PV.26 
(spoke in French)
The  transition  that  we  will  undergo  as  we  move 
from  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to  the  post-
2015 development agenda is an opportunity for Africa 
17/10/2014
to  renew  its  capacities  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the 
continent and our shared global challenges.
The meeting rose at 1.55 p.m.
30/30 
14-57494
