United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
57th plenary meeting
Thursday, 20 November 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Antoine 
(Grenada), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 37
The situation in Afghanistan
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/540)
Draft resolution (A/69/L.20)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Germany to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.20.
Mr.  Thoms  (Germany):  It  is  an  honour  for  my 
country to introduce this year’s draft resolution on the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/69/L.20).  The  year  2014 
has been marked by seminal developments in Afghan 
domestic and foreign politics, and the draft resolution 
before  us  today  reflects  all  the  facets  of  those  key 
developments in Afghanistan.
today 
limit  myself 
Despite  the  variety  of  topics  worthy  of  our 
attention,  I  will 
to  briefly 
highlighting a few key developments. Afghanistan has 
successfully  concluded  its  presidential  and  provincial 
council  elections.  For  the  first  time  in  the  country’s 
history,  power  was  peacefully  transferred  from  one 
Administration  to  another  by  a  democratic  process. 
On  29  September,  President  Ghani  was  inaugurated 
and, together with Mr. Abdullah, the Chief Executive 
Officer,  will  form  a  Government  of  national  unity. 
The  Afghan  people  —  men  and,  most  encouragingly, 
millions of women — have shown tremendous courage 
in making use of their constitutional right to cast their 
vote, defying the Taliban’s threats to attack the election 
process.  We  commend  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General for the 
critical support they provided to the Afghan electoral 
institutions  during  that  process.  Germany,  along  with 
other partners from the international community, also 
supported the process with substantial contributions.
It is now essential that both Afghanistan’s President 
and  its  Chief  Executive  Officer  continue  to  work 
together  closely,  on  a  basis  of  mutual  trust,  to  tackle 
the  many  challenges  that  lie  ahead  for  Afghanistan. 
Electoral  reform  and  the  strengthening  of  electoral 
institutions,  along  with  constitutional  reforms,  are  at 
the core of the agreement on establishing a Government 
of  national  unity  and  must  be  addressed  in  a  timely 
manner.  Economic  reforms  must  be  tackled  swiftly 
in  order  to  foster  economic  growth  and  create  job 
opportunities  for  the  benefit  of  the  entire  population. 
Severe  budgetary  constraints  and  a  volatile  security 
situation  demand  effective  decision-making  processes 
on the part of the Government. As Germany’s Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Mr.  Frank-Walter  Steinmeier, 
underlined  during  his  recent  visit  to  Afghanistan,  all 
actors in the Government of national unity must embrace 
their  responsibility  for  the  future  of  Afghanistan  and 
continue to set aside personal ambitions.
Secondly, the draft resolution reflects the remarkable 
shift  in  the  security  transition  that  Afghanistan  and 
its  international  partners  are  approaching.  In  less 
than  six  weeks,  the  International  Security  Assistance 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-64064 (E)
*1464064*
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
Force  mission  will  come  to  an  end,  and  the  Afghan 
national security forces will assume full responsibility 
for providing security to the Afghan people. Since the 
transition  process  began,  the  Afghan  National  Army 
and the Afghan Local Police have continued to improve 
their capacities and have proved increasingly capable of 
responding to security challenges, albeit at a high cost. 
Challenges still remain, and the achievements attained 
so far are not yet irreversible.
therefore  underlines 
The  draft  resolution 
the 
international  community’s  resolve  to  further  support 
the  Afghan  security  forces  beyond  the  transition. 
At  the  NATO  Wales  Summit,  NATO  and  its  partner 
countries  renewed  their  commitment  to  continuing 
their  support  to  the  Afghan  national  security  forces. 
At  the  beginning  of  2015,  at  the  invitation  of  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan,  they  will  establish  the 
Resolute  Support  Mission  for 
training,  assisting 
and  advising  the  national  security  forces.  They  will 
contribute  to  the  financial  support  of  the  Afghan 
security  forces  and  have  committed  to  strengthening 
the long-term enduring partnership with Afghanistan. 
The German Government has also offered to continue 
supporting  the  Afghan  security  forces.  We  commend 
the new Government of Afghanistan for expeditiously 
signing a bilateral security agreement with the United 
States  and  a  status-of-forces  agreement  with  NATO, 
both  necessary  preconditions  for  the  international 
community’s continued support.
Later  this  year  in  London,  Afghanistan  and  its 
international partners will meet to refresh the long-term 
commitment of the international community throughout 
the transformation decade. That commitment, declared 
by the Government of Afghanistan and its international 
partners at the Bonn Conference of 2011 and reaffirmed 
at  the  Tokyo  Conference  in  2012,  rests  firmly  on  the 
principle  of  mutual  accountability.  Building  on  that 
unique 
international  community 
has  pledged  $16  billion  through  2015  in  support  of 
Afghanistan’s  economic  and  political  stabilization.  In 
addition, it has committed to sustaining its support at 
or near the levels of the past decade through 2017, in 
line with the principles of aid effectiveness. In return, 
the  Afghan  Government  has  committed  to  working 
more  determinedly  to  achieve  its  governance  and 
development goals.
framework, 
the 
During  the  past  decade,  Afghanistan  has  indeed 
made  remarkable  progress  in  a  variety  of  areas, 
including  health, 
infrastructure. 
education 
and 
However, continued efforts are of paramount importance 
for  protecting  and  advancing  the  gains  made  in  past 
years. As the draft resolution reflects, preserving and 
consolidating gains in the protection and promotion of 
human  rights  and  the  equal  participation  of  men  and 
women  in  all  spheres  of  Afghan  life  remain  critical. 
Good governance and the fight against corruption must 
be strengthened, a goal that the new Afghan President 
committed  his  Administration  to  in  his  inaugural 
speech.  Finally,  the  Istanbul  Heart  of  Asia  process, 
aimed at enhancing regional cooperation and dialogue, 
took  a  step  forward  at  the  most  recent  Ministerial 
Conference, held in Beijing in October. As a supporting 
country to the process, Germany is looking forward to 
seeing  progress  in  tapping  its  full  potential  to  foster 
trust and cooperation in the region between now and the 
next Ministerial Conference, which the Government of 
Pakistan has generously offered to host.
Those  watershed  developments  suggest  that  the 
long-term  partnership  between  Afghanistan  and  the 
international community is evolving. It is essential to 
understand, however, that the very redefinition of the 
relationship  should  reinforce  it.  That  is  also  the  core 
message of the draft resolution before us today.
The  new  Afghan  Government  assumed  its  duties 
only a few weeks ago. It faces tremendous challenges, 
and the Government of national unity has clearly stated, 
and  already  demonstrated,  its  determination  to  tackle 
those  challenges  with  vigour.  We  are  confident  that 
that resolve to improve the lives of Afghan citizens will 
guide  the  new  Government  in  its  work.  By  adopting 
this draft resolution today and once again by consensus, 
the  General  Assembly  will  reaffirm  its  commitment 
to  a  prosperous  and  peaceful  future  for  Afghanistan 
and  send  a  strong  message  of  support  to  the  Afghan 
Government and people.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude 
to  all  the  delegations  that  participated  in  this  year’s 
informal  consultations,  and 
to  my 
colleague  Ambassador  Tanin  and  his  team  for  their 
dedication and close cooperation.
in  particular 
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan):  As  we  come  together 
in  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  this  year’s  draft 
resolution on the situation in Afghanistan (A/69/L.20), 
I would like to thank all the Member States that have 
participated in its negotiation. I would also like to thank 
Ambassadors Braun and Thoms, and their team at the 
Permanent Mission of Germany to the United Nations, 
2/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
particularly  Daniel  Schemske,  for  their  hard  work  in 
facilitating the negotiations.
At  the  end  of  this  year,  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  will  take  full  responsibility  for  the 
country’s  security.  The  mandate  of  the  International 
Security Assistance Force, authorized by the Security 
Council  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  is  set  to  expire  on  31  December,  and 
Afghanistan will then move towards a more normalized 
international status as a sovereign nation. We have been 
striving to reach that moment for the past decade. It is 
a major accomplishment and an important step towards 
achieving  a  peaceful,  sovereign  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan.
While NATO’s combat role will end, Afghanistan 
and NATO remain committed to a long-term strategic 
partnership.  NATO  will  continue  to  train,  advise  and 
assist the Afghan national defence and security forces 
beyond 2014 through its Resolute Support Mission, on 
the  basis  of  the  NATO-Afghanistan  status-of-forces 
agreement  and  the  security  and  defence  cooperation 
agreement between Afghanistan and the United States 
of  America.  We  welcome  the  Assembly’s  message  of 
support for the new mission. I would also like to take 
this opportunity to express my Government’s profound 
gratitude  to  all  the  international  civilian  and  military 
men and women who have served shoulder to shoulder 
with  their  Afghan  partners  in  working  for  a  better 
future  for  the  people  of  Afghanistan.  The  Afghan 
people will always remember and honour their sacrifice 
and dedication.
Afghanistan has emerged from a historic election 
that  marked  its  first  democratic  transfer  of  power 
from one President to the next, an important milestone 
in  Afghanistan’s  multifaceted  transition.  While  the 
challenges that arose during the election period tested 
our resolve, the wisdom of the country’s leadership and 
the support of its friends and partners have enabled us to 
overcome the difficulties and move towards a unified, 
peaceful,  democratic  and  prosperous  future.  The 
establishment  of  a  Government  of  national  unity  has 
created  an  atmosphere  of  broader  political  inclusivity 
and participation. It will enable Afghans from all walks 
of  life  to  contribute  to  the  country’s  economic  and 
social development, to the sustainability of the Afghan 
State and its security forces and to peace and security 
in Afghanistan and the wider region.
The  newly  elected  President  of  Afghanistan,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mohammad  Ashraf  Ghani  Ahmadzai, 
the  national  unity  Government, 
together  with 
is  vigorously  pursuing  a  comprehensive 
reform 
programme  aimed  at  delivering  on  the  campaign 
promises and promoting peace, stability and prosperity 
across the country. I would like to highlight three key 
components of that comprehensive reform agenda.
to 
is  crucial 
The  first  is  eliminating  corruption.  Corruption 
corrodes  State  effectiveness,  security,  public  faith 
in  Government  and  progress  towards  peace  and 
prosperity.  It  feeds  insurgency,  patronage  and  illegal 
interests.  Tackling  corruption 
the 
Government’s reform agenda. In his inaugural address, 
President  Ghani  stressed  his  policy  of  zero  tolerance 
for corruption. As soon as he assumed the presidency, 
he ordered the Supreme Court to reopen an inquiry into 
the Kabul Bank fraud case. Since then, the Court has 
sentenced the bank’s executives to 15 years in prison, 
ordered the payment of substantial fines and frozen the 
assets  of  those  accused  of  corruption.  Other  suspects 
will  now  be  investigated  for  their  involvement  in  the 
$900 million embezzlement scandal. That courageous 
step demonstrates the Government’s firm commitment 
to eradicating corruption and ending impunity.
On 
strengthening  democratic 
accountability, 
governance and the rule of law, Afghanistan’s leadership 
is  in  the  process  of  establishing  a  functional,  merit-
based cabinet as part of a wider commitment to building 
effective  governance  at  every  level.  In  addition,  we 
will  reform  electoral  institutions,  electoral  processes 
and  the  relevant  laws,  as  well  as  adopt  the  necessary 
amendments  to  the  Constitution.  The  Government 
will also focus on reforming the judiciary and all law- 
enforcement institutions, inter alia by taking concrete 
actions  to  expand  access  to  justice  and  uphold  the 
rights  of  all  Afghan  citizens,  particularly  women  and 
girls. I would like to call attention to the Government’s 
recent adoption of the Afghanistan national action plan 
for  women,  peace  and  security,  which  represents  an 
important step in that regard.
With  regard  to  promoting  economic  growth  and 
social  development,  the  national  unity  Government  is 
committed to economic reforms that stimulate growth 
and  tackle  poverty,  inequality  and  unemployment. 
They  include  strengthening  cooperation  between  the 
Government and the private sector, removing obstacles 
to 
trade,  promoting  sustainable 
livelihoods,  reinvigorating  counter-narcotics  efforts 
and using aid effectively to reinforce development and 
stability. The continuing implementation of the Tokyo 
investment  and 
14-64064
3/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
Mutual  Accountability  Framework  remains  central  to 
those efforts, and we look forward to the next Ministerial 
Meeting  on  Afghanistan  to  be  held  in  London  next 
month. I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the United Kingdom for hosting that important meeting.
The  Afghan  people  have  been  the  victims  of 
terrorism and violence for almost 40 years. The violence 
perpetrated by terrorists, extremists and illegal armed 
groups continues to have daily, devastating impacts on 
all civilians, particularly women and children, and poses 
the greatest obstacle to political, economic and social 
progress in the country. The Afghan National Security 
Forces  continue  to  demonstrate  professionalism  and 
courage  in  protecting  the  Afghan  people.  Moving 
forward,  the  national  unity  Government  will  work 
tirelessly to continue to strengthen the capacity of the 
Afghan national security forces to uphold the security 
of  the  nation  and  to  preserve  the  achievements  of  the 
last decade. The continuing support of our international 
partners, in particular through the new NATO mission, 
is crucial to the success of those efforts.
But  the  country  will  not  achieve  peace  through 
military  efforts  alone.  President  Ghani  has  called  on 
all  armed  opponents  of  the  Government  to  enter  into 
political talks and play their part in building a strong 
and  successful  Afghanistan.  The  Government  of 
Afghanistan is working to establish a wider, inclusive 
political framework for lasting peace, including a new 
outreach to the armed opposition and efforts at national 
reconciliation.  This  is  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-
owned process, but, at the same time, we recognize the 
important role of regional and neighbouring countries, 
particularly  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  in 
contributing to our efforts to end the conflict. President 
Ghani  initiated  serious  efforts  to  further  a  political 
settlement during his recent visits to Saudi Arabia, China 
and  Pakistan  and  in  his  meetings  and  conversations 
with the leaders of neighbouring, regional and partner 
countries.
Regional cooperation is key not only to peace and 
security but also to prosperity in Afghanistan and the 
wider  region.  In  that  connection,  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  is  committed  to  deepening  cooperation 
with  its  neighbours  and  regional  partners.  Last  week, 
President  Ghani  paid  a  historic  visit  to  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  where  the  leaders  of  the  two 
countries opened a friendly, forward-looking dialogue 
and  made  concrete  agreements  relating  to  improving 
bilateral economic, trade and investment relations. The 
visit generated an unprecedented surge of optimism and 
set the groundwork for long-term cooperation between 
the two nations.
In  October,  President  Ghani  conducted  another 
historic  State  visit  to  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
where  bold  steps  were  taken  towards  increasing 
cooperation in the areas of economic development and 
stabilization. The visit coincided with the annual Heart 
of Asia Ministerial Conference in Beijing on 31 October, 
which reaffirmed commitments to strengthen regional 
security  and  cooperation  for  a  secure  and  stable 
Afghanistan.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Government  of 
China  for  its  leadership  and  for  hosting  the  meeting, 
and  we  thank  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  for 
agreeing  to  host  the  next  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
Istanbul process in 2015. The President of Afghanistan 
looks  forward  to  furthering  regional  engagement  and 
will therefore attend the upcoming summit of the South 
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation at the end 
of this month in Kathmandu.
Deepening  regional  cooperation  will  open  the 
doors to a flourishing continental economy in the heart 
of  Asia.  Afghanistan  has  great  potential  to  enhance 
the development and prosperity of the entire region by 
unlocking the country’s capacity to serve as a hub for 
connectivity and trade across Asia. That will entail key 
energy and power projects, such as the Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India  pipeline  and  the  Central 
Asia-South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission  and  Trade 
Project,  as  well  as  the  building  of  a  wide  regional 
transport  network,  including  railways  and  highways. 
All  regional  partners  can  play  a  role  by  working 
together  and  engaging  chambers  of  commerce  and 
business  communities  in  joint  and  coordinated  action 
to turn potential into reality.
As  the  new  Government  focuses  on  renewed 
regional  cooperation,  our 
long-term  partnerships 
with  the  wider  international  community  remain  the 
backbone  of  our  efforts  for  peace,  security,  stability 
and  prosperity  in  Afghanistan.  The  support  of  the 
international  community  has  allowed  us  to  build  a 
new  Afghanistan  and  will  continue  to  be  crucial  in 
the  transformation  decade  ahead.  The  President’s 
upcoming  visit  to  London  to  attend  the  London 
Conference on Afghanistan and his upcoming visit to 
the United States will be important steps in refreshing 
and furthering our mutual cooperation and partnership 
with the international community.
4/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
The  past  13  years  have  seen  the  international 
community’s unprecedented engagement in supporting 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  its  efforts  to  build 
peace and stability. While the goals set over a decade ago 
have not been fully realized, Afghanistan is determined 
to  bring  sustainable  peace,  security  and  prosperity 
to  the  country  with  the  support  of  our  international 
partners. The Government of Afghanistan’s ambitious 
agenda  of  reform,  the  collaboration  of  all  Afghan 
political  forces  and  the  support  of  the  Afghan  people 
will enable us to put an end to the destructive narrative 
of  toxic  extremism  and  to  reach  the  beginning  of  an 
era  of  peace.  In  doing  so,  we  will  change  the  course 
of  history  in  the  heart  of  Asia  to  the  great  benefit  of 
our  people,  our  neighbours,  the  wider  region  and  the 
international community.
The Acting President: I call on the observer of the 
European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member States. The candidate countries of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, as well as Ukraine, the Republic of 
Moldova, Armenia and Georgia align themselves with 
this  statement.  I  would  like  to  thank  all  delegations 
that have participated in the consultations on the draft 
resolution  (A/69/L.20)  and  particularly  the  German 
team for so ably facilitating the negotiations. We would 
also like to thank Ambassador Tanin for his statement.
Let  me  start  by  reiterating  the  European  Union’s 
full support for the continued important role played by 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 
(UNAMA)  and  all 
the  United  Nations  agencies 
the  Afghan  people  and  coordinate 
that  support 
the 
the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  mission 
comes  to  an  end  and  the  international  combat  troops 
are withdrawn, the role of the United Nations will be 
even more important in assisting the Afghan authorities 
in  their  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  gains  achieved  are 
safeguarded  and  used  as  the  foundation  for  further 
progress.
international  community’s  assistance.  As 
The  international  community  will  soon  meet 
in  London  at  the  Conference  to  be  co-chaired  by  the 
Governments of Afghanistan and the United Kingdom. 
The  Conference  will  be  an  occasion  for  the  new 
Afghan Government to set out a serious and ambitious 
reform programme and to begin a process for reaching 
agreement  on  the  refreshed  mutual  accountability 
framework that will be finalized at next year’s Senior 
Officials Meeting.
The London Conference will also be an opportunity 
for  the  international  community  to  restate  its  long-
term  commitment  to  support  Afghanistan  and  to 
reaffirm existing financial commitments through 2017, 
underpinned by the principle of mutual accountability. 
It will also be an opportunity to consider the progress 
made in the commitments set out in the Tokyo Mutual 
Accountability  Framework,  agreed  at 
the  Tokyo 
Conference on Afghanistan in July 2012. Afghanistan 
has  been  the  beneficiary  of  unprecedented  levels  of 
international  assistance,  but  it  is  vital  that  assistance 
be sustained over the coming years, since it is critical 
that Government revenues increase in the future. The 
European  Union  is  pleased  to  welcome  the  formation 
of  the  Government  of  national  unity  and  has  recently 
signed an agreement to provide up to €1.4 billion over 
the  next  seven  years  in  development  assistance.  That 
money  will  be  used,  in  line  with  the  common  EU 
strategy, to strengthen Afghanistan’s institutions so as 
to  enable  Afghans  to  be  responsible  for  securing  the 
gains made over the last 13 years, as well as to make 
it possible to continue developing national institutions 
in  line  with  the  needs  of  the  women  and  men  of 
Afghanistan.
Gains can be secured only if the new Government 
commits  to  enacting  and  implementing  the  critical 
reforms  needed  to  improve  economic  and  political 
governance  in  the  country,  including  by  tackling  the 
widespread  problem  of  corruption.  Urgent  action  is 
needed to put in place the measures necessary to improve 
the  economic  growth  outlook  and  attract  investment. 
Only in that way can Afghanistan both create the jobs 
and increase the revenue that the country needs to truly 
stand on its own two feet. But investors are unlikely to 
risk their capital, if Afghanistan does not improve the 
ease of doing business in the country and, in particular, 
the enforceability of contracts through a strengthened 
rule  of  law.  Serious  reforms  are  also  needed  with 
regard to tackling illicit narcotics, which contribute to 
sustaining the illicit economy.
The  failure  to  remedy  injustice,  both  real  and 
perceived, has been one of the greatest failings of the 
previous  Afghan  Administration  and  has  provided 
an  easy  target  for  those  opposed  to  the  Government. 
The  new  Government  has  taken  the  welcome  step  of 
14-64064
5/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
reopening  the  investigation  into  the  corrupt  practices 
that led to the collapse of the Kabul Bank. The European 
Union also welcomes the appointment of a new Chief 
Justice  and  a  new  Attorney-General.  It  is  vital  to 
maintain  that  reform  momentum  and  to  encourage 
all  parts  of  the  justice  system  to  work  together  in  a 
constructive way to address systemic failures.
Afghanistan has made good progress since 2001 in 
addressing the legacy of discrimination from the Taliban 
regime. While the European Union is fully supportive 
of a national reconciliation process in Afghanistan, we 
must guard against the Taliban returning to its previous 
unacceptable  practices.  We  need  to  see  a  democratic 
process that fully promotes and respects human rights 
and the rule of law, including the right of women and 
girls  to  education  and  full  participation  in  Afghan 
society.  For  its  part,  the  European  Union  will  extend 
the  mandate  of  its  European  Union  Police  Mission  in 
Afghanistan and continue to support capacity-building 
of the Afghan police and the rule of law. Much of the 
legal  framework  needed  to  recognize  the  equality  of 
men  and  women  is  now  in  place,  but  far  greater  and 
more  systematic  action  is  required  in  order  to  ensure 
full and adequate implementation, as well as women’s 
equal participation in decision-making processes across 
the country.
In  conclusion,  all  those  challenges  will  require  a 
strong commitment from both the new Government and 
the international community. The European Union and 
its member States will remain a steadfast partner, as set 
out in the new comprehensive strategy for Afghanistan, 
which  was  endorsed  in  June.  We  applaud  the  role 
played by UNAMA and reiterate the importance of the 
Mission’s maintaining the countrywide presence that is 
so necessary for the ongoing delivery of international 
assistance.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian): I am honoured to take the floor on behalf of 
the  States  members  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization  (CSTO):  the  Republic  of  Armenia,  the 
Republic  of  Belarus,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
Republic of Tajikistan.
The  Afghan  people  have  just  completed  a  very 
important stage in their history: the transfer of power 
from  one  elected  head  of  State  to  another  through 
the  mechanism  of  elections.  We  hope  that  the  newly 
elected  national  leader  will  guide  efforts  towards 
achieving  peace  and  progress  in  the  country,  and  we 
wish all Afghans, as well as the new leadership, success 
and  strength  in  tackling  the  problems  before  them. 
Unfortunately, there are many.
Each  of  our  countries  supports  close,  friendly 
relations  with  Afghanistan,  based  on  mutual 
consideration  and  equitable  cooperation.  We  all  have 
a  stake  in  seeing  that  a  pessimistic  prognosis  for  the 
country’s  prospects  for  development,  along  with  its 
security  and  stability,  is  not  borne  out.  We  consider 
the  30  September  signing  of  the  bilateral  security 
agreement between Afghanistan and the United States 
and  the  accord  with  NATO  on  the  status  of  forces  to 
be  the  sovereign  right  of  the  Afghan  Republic,  which 
must  in  no  way  be  disputed.  It  is  our  hope  that  those 
documents will help strengthen security in the country. 
We note, moreover, that the new mission, which has been 
agreed with the Afghan leadership and strengthened by 
the  corresponding  resolution  of  the  Security  Council, 
will  become  an  integral  part  of  the  framework  of 
international cooperation.
We are very concerned by the situation in the area 
of  security  and  view  with  alarm  the  trend  involving 
increasingly  terrorist,  extremist  and  other  radical 
elements  that  are  striving  to  broaden  their  spheres  of 
influence, not only through far-reaching operations but 
also  through  contemptible  terrorist  attacks,  which  we 
decisively condemn. Further grounds for concern is the 
information on the establishment of contacts between 
the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and the Afghan 
armed  opposition,  aimed,  inter  alia,  at  joint  acts  of 
sabotage in the north of Afghanistan.
In  realistically  assessing  the  situation,  the  CSTO 
is  taking  measures  to  strengthen  its  own  capacity 
for  collective  reaction  to  the  threats  and  challenges 
emanating from Afghanistan. We intend to counter the 
dangers stemming from the infiltration of destabilizing 
elements into Central Asia, the spread of fundamentalist 
ideas and the recruitment of foreign terrorist fighters. 
Radicals  from  groups  affiliated  with  Al-Qaida  have 
noticeably stepped up their activities along the borders 
of the Afghan Republic with the neighbouring countries 
of  Central  Asia.  Increased  instability  in  Asia  and  the 
Middle  East  makes  the  problem  of  foreign  terrorist 
fighters all the more urgent.
In the context of the Afghan situation, the question 
of  achieving  intra-Afghan  reconciliation  also  takes 
on  increased  importance.  The  member  States  of  the 
CSTO  support  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan  leadership 
in  that  regard.  In  that  context,  we  hope  that  the  new 
6/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
Afghan authorities will proceed with redoubled energy 
to advance that key aspect of the normalization of the 
situation  in  the  country.  Naturally,  that  can  happen 
only  with  Kabul  playing  the  leading  role  and  on  the 
basis  of  the  well-known  triad  of  principles,  namely 
that  the  terrorists  lay  down  their  arms,  recognize  the 
Constitution of Afghanistan and completely sever their 
ties with Al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations, in 
strict  compliance  with  the  relevant  Security  Council 
sanctions  regime.  The  CSTO  States  are  prepared 
to  strengthen  their  cooperation,  both  within  their 
organization  and  with  foreign  partners,  in  particular 
with the Afghan authorities, with a view to curtailing 
further threats throughout our region.
The countries of the CSTO express serious concern 
with respect to the sharp increase in the narco-business 
in Afghanistan. Since the June meeting of the Security 
Council on Afghanistan, CSTO member States have had 
a unified position on that score. The agreed approaches 
concerning the narco-threat, in particular with regard 
to  Afghanistan,  are  contained  in  the  CSTO’s  draft 
anti-narcotics  strategy  for  2014-2020.  We  must  point 
out  that,  in  spite  of  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community and local authorities, Afghan drug cartels 
continue to increase production, and that is a challenge 
that  can  be  considered  a  threat  to  international  peace 
and security. Without tough measures to get rid of the 
crops  and  the  laboratories,  it  will  not  be  possible  to 
reverse current trends and achieve a positive result. The 
international community and the Afghan Government 
have  the  shared  responsibility  to  curb  the  illicit 
production of and trafficking in drugs.
We note the courageous efforts and partial success 
of  the  Afghan  security  forces  and  law-enforcement 
bodies  in  curbing  the  narco-business.  We  honour  the 
dead and those wounded in that difficult and at times 
unfair fight. We believe that stopping the expansion of 
drug trafficking is one of the measures that will ensure 
security in Afghanistan and forms an integral part of 
our collective efforts to stand up to terrorist threats. For 
that purpose, the CSTO States are prepared to continue 
to provide assistance aimed at strengthening the ability 
of  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces.  Moreover, 
our  organization  already  has  significant  experience 
in countering the illicit trafficking in Afghan opiates, 
including  as  part  of  Operation  Canal,  which  in 
September  2008  received  the  status  of  a  permanent 
regional counter-narcotics operation.
The  mechanisms  to  counter  smuggling  have  been 
functioning  on  the  northern  routes  from  Afghanistan 
into  Europe.  The  practical  challenges  involved  in 
blocking  the  channels  used  in  smuggling  narcotics 
from  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  in  curbing  the  work  of 
transnational drug traffickers using the territory of the 
States of Central Asia for smuggling of Afghan drugs 
have been handled this past year as part of the special 
Canal-Southern  Rim  and  Canal-Valley  operations, 
thanks to which we removed 17.5 tons of hard drugs and 
psychotropic substances from circulation. In addition, 
5,300 crimes were identified and 25,200 criminal cases 
opened.  We  welcome  the  participation  of  the  Afghan 
National Security Forces as observers in those special 
operations.  We  call  on  NATO  and  the  contingent  of 
forces in Afghanistan to become really involved in the 
fight against illegal production and illicit drugs.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
willingness  of  our  countries  to  actively  participate  in 
large  regional  projects  aimed  at  ensuring  sustainable 
economic development in Central Asia and Afghanistan. 
In  particular,  that  involves  implementing  the  Central 
Asia-South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission  and  Trade 
Project  and  building  the  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Tajikistan railway. We are also prepared to look at the 
possibility of providing assistance to create conditions 
enabling 
the 
Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India gas pipeline 
system and the construction of railway lines and roads 
for automobiles. It is important to step up cooperation 
with 
the  regional  organizations  and  mechanisms 
involved in those projects.
implementation  of 
the 
successful 
We  express  the  hope  that  the  new  leadership  of 
Afghanistan will get down to the business of building 
an independent, self-sufficient, democratic and neutral 
dynamically developing State, one effectively fighting 
terrorism  and  narcotics.  For  our  part,  the  CSTO 
countries are prepared to use all the capabilities that we 
have and to do everything we can to help, working both 
bilaterally and on a multilateral basis in various arenas 
to deal with those challenges.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  Afghanistan  is  on 
the cusp of a historic change. In that context, today’s 
debate and this year’s draft resolution on Afghanistan 
(A/69/L.20)  are  most  timely.  Pakistan  appreciates  the 
facilitation  of  the  draft  resolution  on  Afghanistan  by 
Germany. Pakistan is a sponsor of the draft resolution.
14-64064
7/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
of 
the 
Secretary-General 
We  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  outgoing  Special 
Representative 
on 
Afghanistan,  Mr.  Ján  Kubiš,  who  did  an  outstanding 
job as a leader, as a mediator and as a conciliator. His 
benign  presence  and  wise  counsel  in  Afghanistan 
raised the stature of the United Nations and helped that 
country move towards democratic transition, peace and 
stability. We also wish to thank him for working very 
closely  with  the  leadership  of  Pakistan.  We  wish  to 
congratulate Mr. Nicholas Haysom on his appointment 
as the new Special Representative, and we look forward 
to working with him. I also wish to thank Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan  for  his  very  positive, 
constructive and forward-looking statement today.
We  congratulate  the  people  of  Afghanistan  on 
the  elections  and  the  peaceful  democratic  transition. 
That  was  a  historic  first.  Pakistan  supported  the 
electoral  process  in  Afghanistan  by  strengthening 
security along the border with Afghanistan. Pakistan’s 
relationship with the new Government of national unity 
in  Afghanistan  has  started  on  a  high  note.  President 
Mamnoon  Hussain  attended 
inauguration  of 
President  Ashraf  Ghani  Ahmadzai.  Mr.  Sartaj  Aziz, 
Adviser  on  National  Security  and  Foreign  Affairs, 
visited Kabul to set the tone for a comprehensive and 
enduring  partnership.  President  Ghani’s  visit  last 
week  to  Islamabad  marked  a  holistic  renewal  of  our 
relationship.  I  agree  with  Ambassador  Tanin  that  the 
visit generated an unprecedented surge of optimism. A 
peaceful, stable, united and prosperous Afghanistan is 
in  Pakistan’s  vital  interest.  Our  nations  are  joined  by 
the bonds of common faith, kinship and history.
the 
Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif outlined 
his  vision  of  a  multi-tiered  bilateral  engagement  on 
the  political,  security,  economic  and  cultural  levels. 
Pakistan and Afghanistan have resolved to forge robust 
economic partnerships by expanding trade, promoting 
investment,  improving  infrastructure,  building  road 
and rail links and generating energy. We also envisage 
collaboration  with  Afghanistan  on  reconstruction, 
border 
security  and  defence,  capacity-building, 
education and parliamentary exchanges. We envision a 
peaceful  neighbourhood,  connected  by  trans-regional 
initiatives like the Central Asia-South Asia Electricity 
Transmission and Trade Project and the Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India gas pipeline. I have shared 
details on the recent engagement between Pakistan and 
Afghanistan in order to reassure the Secretary-General 
that our two countries are, in his words, “resetting” our 
relationship  and  increasing  the  space  for  cooperation 
in  all  areas,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  security  and 
counter-terrorism,  which  includes  the  activation  of 
interaction on the military and intelligence tracks.
The  focus  is  now  rightly  shifting  to  a  managed 
security  transition  in  Afghanistan  so  as  to  pave  the 
way  for  internal  stability  and  economic  development. 
The  past  mistakes  of  abandoning  Afghanistan  should 
not  be  repeated.  We  welcome  Afghanistan’s  bilateral 
security  agreement  with  the  United  States  and  the 
status-of-forces agreement with NATO. We agree with 
the  Secretary-General 
that  Afghanistan’s  security 
institutions will require substantial assistance for years 
to come. In that context, sustaining the Afghan forces is 
important. The Secretary-General has highlighted the 
plight of civilians who are caught in the crossfire, with 
an increased number of deaths and injuries.
In the post-2014 period, domestic and international 
terrorist  networks,  insurgents  and  criminal  groups 
should  not  be  allowed  to  push  Afghanistan  towards 
deeper  internecine  strife.  Intra-Afghan  reconciliation 
remains the keystone for creating the conditions needed 
for sustainable peace and stability in Afghanistan. An 
inclusive, Afghan-led and Afghan-owned reconciliation 
process,  which  the  new  Government  is  initiating,  is 
imperative  for  national  unity  and  progress.  Pakistan 
stands ready to support that process.
Pakistan  and  Afghanistan  both  face  the  threats 
of  terrorism,  violent  extremism  and  transnational 
crime, and a precarious security environment. We will 
counter  those  threats  with  a  strong  common  resolve 
and  coordinated  endeavours.  Non-State  actors  should 
not be allowed to dictate Pakistan-Afghanistan bilateral 
relations.  Our  relationship  must  be  based  on  mutual 
respect  for  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  and 
marked by trust and cooperation. On our side, we are 
prosecuting Operation Zarb-e-Azb to take out terrorists 
and take down their networks. There is zero tolerance 
for them. Our nation and our valiant armed forces are 
determined to fight that war to the finish.
There  are  no  bad  or  good  terrorists.  Terrorists 
are criminals, plain and simple. Action is being taken 
against  them,  without  distinction  and  differentiation. 
The  soil  of  Pakistan  will  be  cleansed  of  the  scourges 
of terrorism and violent extremism. Action on the other 
side of the border would help to ensure the annihilation 
of the toxic ideology of terrorism and the operatives who 
implement its dark agenda. In that regard, we appreciate 
8/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
the  steps  being  taken  by  the  Afghan  Government  for 
simultaneous  operations  on  the  Afghan  side  of  the 
border to address specific security situations.
The Secretary-General’s latest report on Afghanistan 
(A/69/540)  expresses  grave  concern  at  the  economic 
situation, especially a precipitous drop in growth and 
a  decline  in  investor  confidence.  We  hope  that  the 
pledges  made  under  the  Tokyo  Mutual  Assistance 
Framework will materialize in order stimulate growth 
at the local, regional and national levels. That is critical 
for continued stability in Afghanistan. We look forward 
to continued international commitments to Afghanistan 
at the London Conference next month. The Secretary-
General’s  report  also  refers  to  the  booming  illicit 
economy in Afghanistan, which is both a symptom and 
a source of uncertainty. We hope that the international 
community will assist the Government of Afghanistan 
and  other  regional  countries  to  counter  the  narcotics 
trade and promote development priorities to strengthen 
its licit economy.
We  are  encouraged  by  President  Ghani’s  decision 
to  give  priority  to  refugees.  More  than  3  million 
documented  and  undocumented  refugees  continue  to 
live on Pakistan’s soil, while the international assistance 
for  them  has  been  dwindling  over  the  years.  We  are 
hosting  the  largest,  single-country,  chronic  refugee 
caseload.  Despite  constraints  on  Pakistan’s  resources, 
we have extended the refugees’ stay in Pakistan until 
the  end  of  2015.  Three  steps  are  necessary  to  deal 
with  the  refugees  in  Pakistan:  first,  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees must 
increase its assistance; secondly, the international donor 
community, which seeks to help the new Government 
rebuild  and  reconstruct  Afghanistan,  should  earmark 
resources  for  the  rehabilitation  and  repatriation  of 
refugees;  and  thirdly,  the  Afghan  Government  itself 
should,  in  its  planning,  pay  special  attention  to  the 
livelihoods  and  housing  of  returning  refugees  so  that 
they can be reabsorbed in Afghanistan.
We  are  committed  to  regional  stability  through 
cooperation and connectivity. We commend China for 
the  successful  meeting  of  last  month’s  Heart  of  Asia 
process. Pakistan will have the pleasure of hosting the 
next  meeting  in  2015.  Prime  Minister  Nawaz  Sharif 
conveyed  to  President  Ashraf  Ghani  last  week  that 
Pakistan  would  stand  by  Afghanistan  to  support  its 
endeavours for peace and progress as it begins its decade 
of  transformation.  In  1930,  Pakistan’s  philosopher-
poet  Allama  Iqbal  characterized  Afghanistan  as 
Qalb-e-Asia,  or  the  “Heart  of  Asia”.  He  wrote,  and  I 
translate:
“Asia  is  comparable  to  a  living  body.  The  heart 
that  beats  inside  the  body  is  the  homeland  of  the 
Afghans.  The  destruction  of  Afghanistan  would 
be  the  destruction  of  Asia.  In  its  progress  and 
prosperity lies the well-being of Asia”.
More  than  eight  decades  later,  those  verses  still 
hold  true.  The  people  of  Afghanistan  are  masters  of 
their  own  destiny.  Today,  they  are  defining  it  for  a 
bright future. We wish them and their new Government 
all success.
Mr. Al Musharakh (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in  Arabic):  The  United  Arab  Emirates  reiterates  its 
full support for the draft resolution before the General 
Assembly  today  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
(A/69/L.20), and reaffirms its sponsorship of the draft 
resolution.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  recognizes  the 
importance  of  joining  efforts  to  support  the  Republic 
of Afghanistan and its people along a prosperous and 
stable  path  that  will  eventually  lead  to  sustainable 
economic development and to all-inclusive and effective 
social  progress  for  all  members  of  Afghan  society. 
We  also  welcome  the  new  President  of  Afghanistan, 
Mr. Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai. We wish him success in 
his presidency.
including 
The United Arab Emirates stresses the importance 
of  the  international  community’s  continued  support 
for  Afghanistan  as  it  assumes  responsibility  for  its 
share  of  the  outcomes  of  the  various  international 
conferences, 
the  Kabul,  Bonn,  Tokyo, 
Istanbul,  Lisbon  and  Chicago  Conferences.  We  also 
look forward to the London Conference to be held next 
month  on  the  recovery  of  the  Afghan  economy.  We 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  supporting  Afghanistan, 
which translates into stability for the region as a whole, 
including for the United Arab Emirates itself.
My country commends the recent political progress 
and  the  electoral  experience  in  Afghanistan.  We  also 
commend  the  role  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
Special  Representative  for  Afghanistan  and  Head  of 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 
in  supporting  an  Afghan-led  political  process.  We 
reaffirm the importance of supporting the Afghan-led 
political process and the Afghani forces as they take over 
security responsibilities, by providing training, funding 
and  necessary  support.  The  security  and  stability  of 
Afghanistan  are  of  vital  importance  in  ensuring  that 
14-64064
9/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
country’s  economic  recovery  and  development.  We 
also stress the importance of the national reconciliation 
process,  which  will  bring  together  all  elements  of 
Afghan  society,  including  women,  in  order  to  hold  a 
peaceful dialogue.
On  the  humanitarian  and  development  fronts,  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  has  continued  to  implement 
projects in Afghanistan through a committee that works 
to  coordinate  the  efforts  of  all  United  Arab  Emirates 
donors  and  charity  institutions  within  a  framework 
designed  to  help  to  meet  the  Afghan  people’s  basic 
needs in areas such as nutrition, health care, assistance 
to orphans and people with special needs. We have also 
continued to implement various infrastructure projects, 
such  as  roads,  schools  and  mosques,  throughout 
Afghanistan.
initiative 
for  producing  carpets 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  continues  to 
assist  the  Afghan  people,  through  cooperation  with 
various other States and institutions, in implementing 
projects  with  long-term  benefits  aimed  at  improving 
Afghanistan’s  economy  and  enhancing  its  workforce. 
In  a  unique  project,  we  launched  the  Fatima  bint 
Mohammed 
in 
Afghanistan, an industry whose production had shrunk 
but,  since  the  launch  of  the  initiative,  now  accounts 
for  20  per  cent  of  the  country’s  gross  domestic 
growth,  providing  job  opportunities  for  more  than 
4,000 people, 70 per cent of them women, furnishing 
a daily income that meets Afghan families’ needs and 
exceeds Afghanistan’s average per capita income. The 
project is now opening the door to global markets for 
the  carpet  industry,  as  part  of  the  implementation  of 
the  sustainable  development  plan  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  which  includes  combating  unemployment 
in  rural  Afghanistan.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
has  also  implemented  health  projects,  such  as  a  joint 
venture with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for 
vaccinating children in Afghanistan, to which we have 
allocated $33 million, as well as contributing to global 
efforts to eradicate polio by 2018.
Afghanistan has long been a victim of terrorism and 
extremism.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
stresses  the  importance  of  redoubling  international 
efforts  to  combat  terrorism  and  extremism,  which 
have  a  direct  negative  impact  on  the  development  of 
societies.  We  have  consistently  pursued  a  policy  that 
includes coordinated efforts to strengthen our national 
legislation, laws and regulations, including establishing 
a  list  of  designated  terrorist  organizations,  such  as 
Al-Qaida, based on the provisions of our 2014 Federal 
Act Number 7 on countering terrorist activities. In that 
context, we will continue to work with other partners 
in  the  framework  of  our  membership  in  the  Global 
Counterterrorism  Forum  and  our  hosting  of  the  the 
Hedayah  Centre  in  Abu  Dhabi,  the  first  international 
centre of excellence aimed at countering extremism and 
terrorism.
We  have  also  consistently  raised  awareness  about 
moderation  in  Islam  by  training  Afghan  imams,  a 
programme — to which we have allocated to 44 million 
emirati dirhams — consisting of two phases, the first 
of  which  has  successfully  trained  11,000  mullahs, 
while  the  second,  to  be  completed  in  2015,  aims  to 
train  another  20,000,  1,500  of  whom  will  be  women. 
Moreover,  several  hundred  of  those  trainees  will  be 
qualified  to  train  other  participants,  which  itself  will 
make an effective contribution to creating a moderate 
and sustained environment in Afghanistan for decades 
to come.
In  conclusion,  we  emphasize  the  readiness  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  provide  the  required 
support  for  the  Afghan  people,  and  we  look  forward 
to  continuing  dialogue  and  discussions  between  our 
two  countries  designed  to  enhance  cooperation  and 
coordination on security and development.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
welcomes the report submitted to the General Assembly 
by the Secretary-General on the situation in Afghanistan 
(A/69/540) and supports the Assembly’s adoption today 
of draft resolution A/69/L.20, on Afghanistan.
After  several  decades  of  war  and  turmoil,  the 
Afghan  people  have  entered  a  crucial,  three-pronged 
phase  of  transformation  in  the  political,  economic 
and security areas, with new opportunities to achieve 
unity, stability, peace and reconstruction, while at the 
same time tackling difficult tasks. The Afghan people 
aspire  to  unity,  stable  growth  and  peace  with  their 
neighbours, all of which are in the collective interests of 
the international community, and it is our unshirkable 
responsibility to help to resolve Afghanistan’s problems 
as soon as possible. China supports a continued leading 
role for the United Nations in coordinating international 
assistance  to  Afghanistan  in  order  to  ensure  that  all 
stakeholders’  efforts  are  complementary,  mutually 
reinforcing and synergetic.
I  would  like  to  emphasize  the  following  points. 
First, we must respect the Afghan people’s right to make 
10/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
independent choices. The country has a unique history 
and  specific  national  conditions,  and  it  is  up  to  the 
Afghan people to independently explore the road that 
lies ahead of them, taking their current circumstances 
into account. During President Ghani Ahmadzai’s recent 
visit to China at the invitation of President Xi Jinping, 
both  sides  issued  a  joint  communiqué  on  deepening 
their  strategic  cooperation  partnership.  China  would 
like  to  reiterate  its  support  for  Afghanistan’s  position 
on maintaining its national independence, sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity,  fully  reflecting  the  Chinese 
people’s respect for the Afghan people’s right to decide 
for themselves. At the opening ceremony of the fourth 
Ministerial  Meeting  of  the  Istanbul  Process,  China’s 
Premier,  Li  Keqiang,  also  emphasized  that  China 
believes that the Afghan people have the capability and 
wisdom to enable them to handle their own affairs and 
ultimately achieve peace and stability.
Secondly,  we  must  make  every  effort  to  promote 
the process of peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan. 
In order to achieve peace and stability, it is vital that the 
country  establish  a  broad  political  base  and  inclusive 
political reconciliation. As President Xi Jinping pointed 
out during his meeting with President Ghani, all sides 
should support an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace 
and reconciliation process. China hopes that every party 
in Afghanistan will participate in that process and that 
the international community will provide constructive 
assistance for it.
Thirdly, we must support Afghanistan in its efforts 
to achieve national security and stability. Afghanistan’s 
current  security  situation 
troubled.  The 
international  community  must  back  the  country’s 
efforts  to  increase  the  capability  of  its  security  and 
police forces in addressing threats of all kinds so that it 
can rehabilitate itself and rebuild.
is  still 
Fourthly,  we  should  help  Afghanistan  to  speed 
up  its  national  social  and  economic  development. 
Poverty and backwardness provide a breeding ground 
for  extremism.  We  must  therefore  help  Afghanistan 
to develop its economy so that the Afghan people can 
live happy lives. The international community should 
honour its aid commitment to help Afghanistan achieve 
sustainable economic development.
should 
Fifthly,  we 
support  Afghanistan’s 
integration  into  regional  cooperation.  Afghanistan 
cannot achieve development and prosperity without the 
support and assistance of the international community, 
especially the countries in the region. The international 
community should support Afghanistan’s development 
of  its  foreign  relations,  especially  with  regard  to 
enhancing the mutual trust and cooperation in various 
areas with the countries in the region, based on mutual 
respect  and  benefits,  so  that  it  can  better  engage  in 
regional  economic  cooperation  and  achieve  common 
development.
The Chinese Government has long supported and 
promoted  peace  and  reconstruction  in  Afghanistan. 
China  will  resolutely  pursue  a  policy  of  friendship 
with  that  country  and  continuously  move  its  strategic 
partnership  ahead.  China  will  continue 
to  help 
Afghanistan  in  its  capacity-building  and  enhance 
its  cooperation  with  that  country  in  such  fields  as 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  hydropower  and 
the 
exploitation of mineral resources. We also plan to offer 
more training and assistance in education, security and 
other fields.
Not  long  ago,  the  Chinese  Government  hosted  in 
Beijing the fourth Ministerial Conference of the Istanbul 
Process  on  the  question  of  Afghanistan,  which  has 
played a positive role in advancing the Istanbul Process 
and in facilitating the early resolution of Afghan issues 
and the achievement of lasting peace, stability and the 
economic and social development of the region. China 
will continue to lend its full support to Afghanistan in 
its efforts to improve its relations with its neighbours, 
enhance regional security and facilitate its engagement 
in regional cooperation. We welcome the participation 
of  Afghanistan  in  building  the  Silk  Road  Economic 
Belt. 
At a time when the Afghan people, who have suffered 
a great deal from war, look ahead with aspiration and 
hope,  nothing  is  more  important  and  precious  than 
the  understanding,  support  and  help  of  the  country’s 
neighbours and friends. China will continue to provide 
the necessary assistance and support to Afghanistan, do 
what it can as a neighbour and assume the responsibilities 
of a big developing country. China will work with the 
international community and make unremitting efforts 
to help bring about sustained developmentand security 
and the prosperity of Afghanistan and the region.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
thank  the  President  for  organizing  this  discussion 
on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  I  would  also  like  to 
commend  the  German  delegation  for  coordinating 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  issue  in 
an  excellent  manner,  which  has  led  us  to  this  annual 
General  Assembly  draft  resolution  (A/69/L.20).  India 
14-64064
11/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
is happy to co-sponsor this draft resolution, as we have 
done  in  the  past  several  years,  which  is  traditionally 
adopted by consensus.
I  wish  to  congratulate  the  people  of  Afghanistan 
on  their  new  Government  of  national  unity,  led  by 
President Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai and Chief Executive 
Officer Abdullah Abdullah.
The Afghan people have shown great patience and 
forbearance during the recent months. That gave much 
needed political space and time to the two presidential 
candidates  and  their  supporters  to  work  through  the 
elements that have made the national unity Government 
agreement  possible.  That  patience  and  forbearance  is 
yet  another  testimony  to  the  strong  public  support  in 
Afghanistan  for  a  democratic  political  system.  It  will 
preserve  the  gains  in  political  reconstruction  made 
over  the  past  13  years.  It  is  also  testimony  to  the 
fierce determination of the Afghan people to vanquish 
terrorism and extremism. We have no doubt that both 
President Ghani Ahmadzai and Chief Executive Officer 
Abdullah will keep that in mind as they undertake the 
difficult  tasks  that  lie  ahead  of  them.  They  include 
the  rapid  formation  of  a  new  Afghan  Government  in 
keeping with the national unity Government agreement 
and  also  the  task  of  electoral  reforms  and  organizing 
a  constitutional  Loya  Jirga  that  they  have  set  for 
themselves.
Despite  the  great  efforts  and  sacrifices  of  both 
international  troops  and  the  personnel  of  the  Afghan 
national security forces, the evil scourge of terrorism 
and extremism has continued to threaten Afghanistan’s 
peace and stability. That such terrorist and extremists 
groups  continue  to  survive,  despite  the  immense 
military  pressure  brought  on  them,  only  underscores 
the fact that they continue to benefit from support from 
beyond  Afghanistan,  and  they  also  access  resources 
from  transnational  terrorist  and  criminal  networks. 
It  is  only  if  that  support  stops  and  the  linkages  with 
networks are broken that the scourge of terrorism will 
be defeated.
The  reconciliation  of  members  of  the  erstwhile 
Taliban regime is an integral part of the efforts to achieve 
national  reconciliation  that  are  being  undertaken  by 
the Government of Afghanistan. A successful national 
reconciliation programme must be transparent, led by 
the  Afghan  Government  and  owned  by  the  Afghan 
people,  and  it  must  respect  the  Afghan  Constitution 
and the international red lines. That will require sincere 
cooperation on he part of all parties concerned.
transition.  In 
Afghanistan  is  also  entering  a  new  phase  in  its 
economic 
today’s  global  economic 
situation,  when  our  Government  budgets  are  strained 
and  when  the  sentiment  of  aid  fatigue  exists  in  most 
traditional  donor  countries,  a  successful  Afghan 
private sector holds the key to a successful economic 
transition  in  Afghanistan.  As  a  lead  country  in  the 
confidence-building measures based on investment in 
trade and commerce, which are being undertaken under 
the Istanbul Process, India has gained some experience 
on that issue. One of the consistent messages that we are 
receiving from private-sector businesses serious about 
entering  the  Afghan  market  is  that,  while  security  is 
an  issue  that  can  at  times  be  managed,  Afghanistan’s 
lack of connectivity to seaports and to faster-growing 
economic  regions  of  Asia  is  a  significant  constraint. 
India  has  been  in  discussions  with  the  Governments 
of Iran and Afghanistan to see how we can collaborate 
on a project to develop Iran’s port of Chahbahar, which 
would  improve  Afghanistan’s  access  to  the  sea  and 
provide a significant boost to economic reconstruction 
activities in the western parts of Afghanistan. We hope 
that  other  similar  connectivity-enhancing  projects  for 
Afghanistan  will  be  undertaken  by  the  international 
community  and  will  henceforth  be  seen  as  a  priority 
area  in  our  collective  efforts  to  assist  Afghanistan’s 
economic reconstruction programme. President Ghani 
Ahmadzai  has  taken  the  lead  in  that  respect,  and  his 
efforts need reciprocation in full measure.
This  is  a  critical  decade  of  transformation  for 
Afghanistan. India is proud to call itself Afghanistan’s 
first  strategic  partner.  We  share  the  Afghan  people’s 
vision of a strong, independent, united and prosperous 
Afghanistan,  for  which  so  many  Afghans  have 
sacrificed so much. India will do whatever is possible 
within our capacities and our means to work with the 
Afghan  Government  and  its  people  to  realize  their 
vision. Afghanistan also needs the unwavering support 
of the international community.
recognizes 
Ms.  King  (Australia):  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.20 
appropriately 
the  major  milestones 
reached  this  year  in  Afghanistan.  It  also  recognizes 
the  continuing  security,  economic  and  development 
challenges,  and  the  continuing  vital  importance  of 
effective  partnerships  between  Afghanistan  and  the 
international community.
The  September  inauguration  of  President  Ghani 
Ahmadzai  and  the  establishment  of  a  Government 
of  national  unity  with  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah  as 
12/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
Chief  Executive  Officer  marked  the  first  democratic 
transfer  of  power  in  Afghanistan’s  history.  Australia 
applauds  the  millions  of  Afghans  who  demonstrated 
their dedication to a democratic future and who braved 
a  very  real  threat  of  violence  to  vote  in  two  election 
rounds.  That  was  a  truly  historic  achievement.  We 
urge  President  Ghani  Ahmadzai  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer  Mr.  Abdullah  to  continue  to  work  in  a  spirit 
of  cooperation,  as  a  stable,  committed  and  inclusive 
Government is in the interests of all Afghan people and 
is essential to protect the gains of the past decade.
The  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  (ANSF) 
assumed the lead role for providing security over a year 
ago now and is on track to assume full responsibility 
for  security  by  the  end  of  2014.  The  ANSF  delivered 
security  for  Afghanistan’s  elections  and  now  leads 
99  per  cent  of  conventional  and  special  operations. 
An  effective  and  sustainable  ANSF  is  fundamental 
to  Afghanistan’s  long-term  stability,  but  continued 
assistance  will  be  required  to  build  their  capacity. 
The NATO-led non-combat Resolute Support Mission 
will  continue  to  train,  advise  and  assist  those  forces. 
Australia will participate in Resolute Support and will 
contribute  $100  million  a  year  from  2015  to  2017  to 
sustain the ANSF. We look to the Afghan Government 
to  ensure  that  the  support  from  the  international 
community is used effectively.
As  Afghanistan  moves 
towards  greater  self-
reliance,  economic  growth  must  be  a  priority  for  the 
Government. Growth must be broad-based, the widening 
inequality  should  be  addressed  and  women  should 
be  empowered  to  participate  fully  in  Afghanistan’s 
economy.  Importantly,  economic  growth  will  need 
to  be  underpinned  by  sound  policies  that  facilitate 
commerce and investment and a regulatory framework 
that  provides  transparency  and  confidence.  The  new 
Government  has  already  started  to  deliver  on  much 
needed reforms. The reopening of the investigation into 
fraud  committed  by  the  Kabul  Bank  is  an  early  and 
important  demonstration  of  the  new  Administration’s 
strong stance against corruption.
Afghanistan  has  also  come  a  long  way  on  human 
rights.  The  Afghan  Constitution  now  enshrines  equal 
rights for men and women. Three million Afghan girls 
now attend school, compared to virtually none in 2001. 
In  this  year’s  elections,  millions  of  Afghan  women 
exercised their right to vote, and many were nominated 
for office. Australia welcomes the recent establishment 
of Afghanistan’s National Women’s Advisory Council. 
That  positive  momentum  must  continue.  We  look  to 
Afghanistan  to  ensure  full  implementation  of  the  law 
on  the  elimination  of  violence  against  women  and 
to  finalize  and  implement  a  national  action  plan  on 
women, peace and security, so as to ensure that women 
have  a  role  in  the  peace  and  reconciliation  process. 
As  a  strong  supporter  of  Afghanistan’s  Independent 
Human Rights Commission, we were pleased by recent 
news  that  the  Commission  has  retained  its  “A”  status 
following  a  review  by  the  International  Coordinating 
Committee  of  National  Institutions  for  the  Promotion 
and Protection of Human Rights.
Since  the  fall  of  the  Taliban  in  2001,  much  has 
been achieved by Afghanistan with the support of the 
international  community.  We  look  to  Afghanistan  to 
continue to build on its security, political and economic 
transition achievements and to continue improvements 
in human rights. The international community remains 
committed to supporting Afghanistan in that endeavour. 
The signing of the bilateral security agreement with the 
United States and the status-of-forces agreement with 
NATO  provides  the  legal  instruments  that  will  allow 
the  Resolute  Support  Mission  to  continue  supporting 
the national security forces as they provide security to 
the Afghan people. In addition, the upcoming London 
Conference will provide an important forum to discuss 
continued  development  cooperation  with  Afghanistan 
within  the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability  Framework. 
Also, 
in 
Afghanistan has a strong mandate to continue providing 
support to Afghanistan.
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
Afghanistan  faces  significant  challenges  on  the 
road  to  a  more  peaceful  and  secure  future.  Australia, 
along with the international community, is committed 
to supporting Afghanistan. And we look to do that in 
close  partnership  with  a  responsive,  transparent  and 
accountable  Afghan  Government.  We  express  our 
thanks to Germany for coordinating the draft resolution 
A/69/L.20  on  Afghanistan  and  to  Ambassador  Tanin 
for his important contribution. With over 80 sponsors, 
including  Australia,  the  draft  resolution  sends  a 
strong  message  of  continuing  international  support 
for  Afghanistan.  We  look  forward  to  its  adoption  by 
consensus.
Mr. Yoshikawa (Japan): I should like to express my 
sincere  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Harald  Braun  of 
Germany and his colleagues for guiding consultations 
on  draft  resolution  A/69/L.20  on  Afghanistan.  I 
should  also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
14-64064
13/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
Afghanistan  for  his  comprehensive  statement  at  the 
beginning of this debate, as well as for his constructive 
engagement towards achieving consensus.
As  a  sponsor  of  the  document,  Japan  is  pleased 
to  offer  its  support  for  the  draft  resolution  at  hand. 
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and, in particular, to its former 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Afghanistan, Mr. Ján Kubiš, who led the Mission ably 
during his tenure. In that connection, I wish to extend 
my  congratulations  to  Mr.  Nicholas  Haysom  on  his 
appointment as the new Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General  and  my  countryman,  Ambassador 
Tadamichi  Yamamoto,  as  the  new  Deputy  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General.  Under  the 
new leadership, I expect that UNAMA will continue to 
play a central role in supporting an Afghan-led political 
process and socioeconomic development.
Japan  welcomes  the  induction  of  Mr.  Mohammad 
Ashraf  Ghani  Ahmadzai  as  the  new  President  of 
Afghanistan  and  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah  as  the  new 
Chief Executive Officer. They are assuming their new 
posts at a very crucial juncture. As the country embarks 
on the transformation decade aimed at achieving peace 
and  stability,  supported  by  sustainable  finances  and 
a  viable  economy,  the  new  Government  must  tackle 
numerous  challenges.  In  that  regard,  I  should  like  to 
touch  upon  three  points  of  particular  importance, 
namely,  advancing  the  political  process,  improving 
public order and safety, and finally, continuing efforts 
to achieve sustainable development.
their 
the  Afghan  people  on 
First,  with  regard  to  the  political  process,  Japan 
congratulates 
first 
democratic  transition  of  power.  The  electoral  process 
was  a  testament  to  the  political  will  and  courage  of 
millions of Afghan men and women. We are pleased to 
have supported that process through, among others, the 
provision of polling materials and capacity-building for 
the  Independent  Election  Commission.  Nevertheless, 
we  note  with  disappointment  the  numerous  delays 
that  the  presidential  electoral  process  experienced. 
Furthermore,  it  is  regrettable  that  more  than  50  days 
after the inauguration of the President, key Government 
posts have yet to be filled.
We call on the new leadership to form an inclusive 
cabinet without delay and to respond to the calls of the 
Afghan people to advance the political process. We look 
to the new Government to carry out its commitments on 
the campaign against corruption and narcotics, as well 
as on political reform. We also hope to see advancement 
in the political reconciliation process with the Taliban. 
Moreover,  in  anticipation  of  future  elections,  such  as 
the  Wolesi  Jirga  or  the  House  of  the  People  in  2015, 
lessons from past elections must be utilized to reinforce 
the democratic process and make it more transparent.
Secondly, I would like to address the issue of public 
order  and  safety.  The  conclusion  of  the  International 
Security Assistance Force’s (ISAF) mission at the end 
of  2014  will  mark  a  watershed  in  Afghanistan’s  path 
towards  self-sufficiency.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
Afghanistan’s  recent  signing  of  the  bilateral  security 
agreement with the United States and the status of forces 
agreement  with  NATO.  We  also  highly  commend  the 
courageous efforts of ISAF in having provided security 
assistance to Afghanistan since its inception in 2001.
Furthermore, we welcome the fact that the NATO 
mission  Resolute  Support  will  continue  to  provide 
assistance  for  Afghan  security  forces  and  institutions 
beyond  2014.  Public  order  and  safety  constitute  the 
foundations  of  Afghanistan’s  development  process 
and  the  international  community’s  engagement  in  it. 
In order to prevent the country from ever becoming a 
seedbed  for  terrorism  again,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
international community continue its engagement with 
Afghanistan.
In  that  regard,  Japan  has  provided  more  than 
$1  billion  to  the  Law  and  Order  Trust  Fund  for 
Afghanistan,  operated  by 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme.  For  example,  this  month 
Japan  is  providing  financial  and  technical  assistance 
for  the  training  of  approximately  200  female  Afghan 
police officers in Turkey. We expect our contribution to 
the Fund to be utilized with appropriate oversight and 
to strengthen Afghan law enforcement capabilities.
the 
international 
My  third  point  concerns  the  achievement  of 
sustainable development. At the 2012 Tokyo Conference, 
Afghanistan 
community 
and 
established 
the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability 
Framework,  which  reaffirms  their  partnership  for 
economic  growth  and  development  through  a  process 
of mutual accountability. At the London Conference on 
Afghanistan,  to  be  held  next  month  as  a  follow-up  to 
the Tokyo Conference, we look to Afghanistan to renew 
its  commitments  on  governance  and  development. 
Correspondingly, we look forward to the international 
community  manifesting  its  continued  support  for 
Afghanistan.
14/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
Japan is the second-largest aid donor to Afghanistan. 
It  has  contributed  approximately  $5.4  billion  since 
2001  and  has  already  disbursed  over  $2  billion  of 
the $3 billion commitment it made at the 2012 Tokyo 
Conference.  But  that  is  also  a  commitment  based 
on  mutual  responsibility.  With  the  understanding 
that  the  new  Afghan  Government  will  deliver  on  its 
commitments, Japan will continue to carry out the aid 
commitments it made at the Tokyo Conference.
Japan’s  assistance  to  Afghanistan  is  a  testament 
to  our  support  for  the  people  of  Afghanistan  on  their 
path  towards  achieving  sustainable  development.  As 
Afghanistan makes the crucial transition towards self-
reliance,  peace  and  prosperity,  Japan  stands  ready  to 
offer its support in cooperation with the international 
community.
Mr. Oyarzun Marchesi (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation to Ambassador Tanin and to align myself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  delegation  of  the 
European Union.
Over the past 13 years, the international community, 
in  conjunction  with  Afghanistan,  has  undertaken  a 
massive economic and human effort. Progress has been 
remarkable. However, it remains fragile.
On the political front, the constant terrorist attacks 
and economic difficulties have not prevented a historic 
peaceful  transfer  of  power.  Spain  welcomes  the  rapid 
finalization of the bilateral security agreement between 
the  new  Afghan  Government  and  the  United  States 
and the status-of-forces agreement with NATO, which 
will allow for support and advice to be provided to the 
Afghan forces.
In  2014,  Afghanistan  is  completing  the  transition 
phase  and  beginning  a  decade  of  transformation.  At 
its  conclusion,  the  country  should  have  its  own  solid 
and  effective  mechanisms  to  ensure  comprehensive 
security.  The  core  of  the  decade  of  transformation 
is  the  international  community’s  partnership  with 
Afghanistan, which, from this point on, will be deployed 
on the basis of the commitments declared at the recent 
Wales Summit and the Bonn and Tokyo Conferences, 
the conclusions of which, we hope, will be confirmed 
at the upcoming London Conference to be held on 3 and 
4 December.
In  that  context,  Spain  wishes  to  emphasize  in 
particular  the  need  to  ensure  progress  in  the  area  of 
women’s rights, which are enshrined in the Constitution 
of  Afghanistan.  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Afghan 
Government  on  the  adoption  of  the  National  Action 
Plan on Women and Peace and Security in Afghanistan 
in  October  2014.  We  encourage  Afghanistan  to  work 
tirelessly in the new phase that is just beginning towards 
a future in which women achieve full participation in 
all areas of political, economic, social and cultural life 
in Afghanistan, on an entirely equal footing with men.
The progress made over the past 13 years could also 
be compromised by economic problems. We therefore 
welcome  the  determination  that  has  been  expressed 
repeatedly  by  Afghanistan’s  new  Government  of 
national  unity  to  undertake  the  necessary  reforms 
as  soon  as  possible  and  to  fulfil  the  commitments 
undertaken  in  those  areas.  We  also  encourage  the 
efforts by the Government towards a deep and lasting 
reconciliation  within  Afghan  society.  Without  full 
reconciliation,  there  is  no  hope  for  the  future  of 
Afghan — or any other — society.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Spain’s  firm 
commitment  to  the  stabilization  and  transformation 
of  Afghanistan,  the  country’s  long-term  progress 
and  the  construction  of  a  peaceful,  democratic  and 
prosperous  society  for  all  Afghans.  In  that  regard, 
we  welcome  the  general  support  once  again  for  this 
year’s  draft  resolution  (A/69/L.20),  which  Spain  once 
again  sponsored  and  which  we  will  adopt  today.  The 
draft resolution is a key document on the international 
commitment to Afghanistan.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express my delegation’s thanks 
and  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  organizing  this  meeting  to  discuss  the 
situation in Afghanistan. I would also like to thank the 
Secretary-General for his report (A/69/540).
The Islamic Republic of Iran is indeed eager to see 
a peaceful and prosperous Afghanistan as its neighbour. 
We continue to do everything in our power to that end, 
since  security  in  Afghanistan  directly  and  indirectly 
affects security in the region, including my country.
We  commend  the  Afghan  people  for  their  broad-
based participation in the presidential election despite 
the threats by extremist and terrorist groups. We also 
welcome the formation of the Government of national 
unity, with Mr. Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai as its President 
and  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah  as  its  Chief  Executive 
Officer.
14-64064
15/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
We trust that all political entities will work together 
in  accordance  with  the  Afghan  Constitution  and  with 
the  aim  of  strengthening  Afghanistan’s  sovereignty, 
independence,  territorial  integrity  and  national  unity 
in  order  to  achieve  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future 
for  the  entire  Afghan  people.  The  new  Government 
represents the true will of the Afghan people and should 
enjoy the due respect and support of the international 
community.
including 
in  Afghanistan, 
On the important question of security arrangements, 
all  General  Assembly  resolutions  concerning  the 
situation 
today’s  draft 
resolution (A/69/L.20), are emphatic that all measures 
to  support  the  training,  equipping,  financing  and 
development  of  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces 
beyond 2014, including the Resolute Support mission, 
should  be  undertaken  in  consultation  with  and  with 
the consent of the Government of Afghanistan, which 
reflects  the  strong  commitment  of  the  international 
community to respecting the sovereignty, independence, 
territorial integrity and national unity of Afghanistan. 
We continue to support Afghanistan and the Afghan 
people. Iran has hosted millions of Afghan refugees for 
more  than  three  decades.  The  remaining  Afghans  in 
our contry use our Government-subsidized schools and 
higher  education,  health  and  social  security  services. 
Based  on  the  information  provided  by  our  Ministers 
of Education and Higher Education, in this year alone 
more  than  320,000  Afghan  students  were  enrolled  in 
our  schools,  and  more  than  7,000  in  our  universities. 
We  continue  to  expand  our  bilateral  cooperation, 
particularly on security matters and counter-narcotics 
efforts,  while  developing  projects  and  economic 
cooperation in the fields of infrastructure, agriculture 
and finding durable solutions for Afghan refugees.
The  continuing  engagement  among  Afghanistan, 
its neighbours and its regional partners in the areas of 
trade,  economic  exchanges  and  development  projects 
must be further supported and strengthened. We firmly 
believe that greater economic ties will bring about peace 
and reinforce security and stability in the country.
On  counter-narcotics  efforts,  we  are  particularly 
concerned  about  the  reports  indicating  that  opium 
poppy  cultivation  in  Afghanistan  has  almost  doubled 
since  2012,  which  is  a  real  threat  for  the  region  and 
beyond  and  should  be  addressed  by  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  international  community.  We 
welcome  the  initiative  taken  by  the  Afghan  Minister 
on  Counter-Narcotics  to  organize  a  good-neighbourly 
relations  declaration  conference  in  Kabul  in  January 
2014,  with  the  participation  of  ministers  or  heads  of 
anti-counter-narcotics  institutions  from  China,  Iran, 
Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. 
With  the  strong  support  and  commitment  of 
international donors, Afghan authorities and the United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  the  menace  of 
drug  cultivation  and  drug  trafficking,  a  main  source 
of  income  for  extremist  and  terrorist  groups,  could 
be  curtailed  to  a  great  extent.  In  that  regard,  the 
international community should support the Triangular 
Initiative  on  counter-narcotics  enforcement  among 
Afghanistan,  Iran  and  Pakistan,  which  is  essential 
not only to strengthening the security and stability of 
Afghanistan but also to alleviating the serious concerns 
of neighbouring States and the transit and destination 
countries of drug trafficking.
We support the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in Afghanistan (UNAMA) and United Nations agencies 
in  their  efforts  to  provide  development  assistance  for 
the  reconstruction  of  the  country  through  a  robust 
regional engagement on issues such as border security, 
immigration,  the  return  of  refugees  and  drug  control 
measures.  The  role  of  UNAMA  should  be  further 
strengthened in the light of the developments expected 
in Afghanistan this year. The future role of the United 
Nations  in  Afghanistan  is  going  to  grow,  due  to  the 
multifaceted and increasingly complex challenges. We 
therefore regret to learn about the reduction of resources 
available to it.
to  Mr.  Ján  Kubiš, 
I  would  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my 
appreciation 
former  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and  Head  of 
UNAMA,  for  his  dedication  and  outstanding  service 
to  Afghanistan.  We  wish  him  success  and  good  luck 
in  his  future  assignment.  I  also  wish  to  welcome  his 
successor, Mr. Nicholas Haysom.
In  conclusion,  the  Government  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  wishes  to  once  again  reiterate  its 
sustained  support  for  the  promotion  of  security, 
stability  and  sustainable  development  in  Afghanistan 
and  extends  our  full  support  to  the  country’s  new 
Government.
Mr.  Pressman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  join  other  Member  States 
in  sponsoring  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation 
in  Afghanistan  (A/69/L.20).  The  text  renews  the 
international  community’s  commitment  to  supporting 
16/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
the people and the Government of Afghanistan as they 
work to expand security, freedom and prosperity in the 
country. 
The year 2014 has already featured Afghanistan’s 
first  democratic,  peaceful  transfer  of  power  and  the 
formation  of  a  Government  of  national  unity  under 
President  Ghani’s  leadership.  The  determination  of 
the  Afghan  people  showed  in  voting  in  such  large 
numbers despite security risks, and the two presidential 
candidates’ choice of unity over division demonstrated 
the depth of Afghans’ commitment to continuing their 
country’s  democratic  development  and  its  progress 
towards  lasting  stability.  As  the  new  Government 
takes  on  formidable  challenges,  including  preparing 
for parliamentary elections, considering constitutional 
reform, combating corruption and illicit drug trafficking 
while developing the licit economy, it will continue to 
need the strong support of the international community. 
By  adopting  this  draft  resolution,  the  General 
Assembly will affirm its commitment to meeting that 
need. It cannot and should not be forgotten that Afghans, 
with  the  support  of  the  international  community, 
continue  to  develop  their  country  under  the  constant 
threat of attack by illegal armed groups whose attacks 
on civilians demonstrate their sheer brutality. Afghan 
forces have performed courageously and every day are 
growing more capable of protecting the Afghan people 
from harm. 
its  partners 
The  United  States  and 
remain 
committed to supporting their continued development 
after 
the  International  Security  Assistance  Force 
concludes its mission at the end of the year. In the near 
term, NATO and its partners, at the invitation and in full 
coordination with the Government of Afghanistan, will 
train, advise and assist Afghan forces with the ultimate 
goal of developing professional, self-sustaining security 
forces capable of securing Afghanistan. 
As important as security and political progress is, 
lasting  stability  in  Afghanistan  will  not  be  possible 
without  sustained  socioeconomic  development  and 
growth.  The  Afghan  Government  must  facilitate 
development  by  taking  on  corruption  and  doing  so 
vigorously  and  upholding  the  rule  of  law  so  Afghans 
and their trading partners can engage in commerce in a 
predictable and fair legal environment. It is encouraging 
that President Ghani has made combating corruption a 
clear priority for his Government from the outset. 
But  again,  international  support  can  play  an 
important  role  in  promoting  development  not  only 
through  the  provision  of  development  assistance,  but 
also  through  efforts,  particularly  by  Afghanistan’s 
neighbours, to integrate Afghanistan into the regional 
and global economy. Events like the recently concluded 
Heart of Asia Ministerial Conference in China as well 
as the upcoming London Conference offer occasions for 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  international 
community  to  focus  on  that  critical  ingredient  for  a 
stable  Afghanistan.  The  United  States  encourages 
all  participants  to  take  maximum  advantage  of  those 
opportunities. 
The United Nations has been, and will continue to 
be, an important focal point for international support for 
Afghanistan. The United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan and other United Nations elements played 
a critical and commendable role in this year’s election 
audit and will continue to be called upon for advice on 
electoral and legal issues, inter alia. In those efforts, the 
United Nations will continue to enjoy the support and 
the partnership of the United States of America as we 
work with it and all of our partners to support Afghans’ 
efforts to transform their country. 
The  progress  of  the  past  decade  has  been  real 
and  tangible.  Afghans  have  seen  improved  access  to 
education for all children, including girls. Fewer than 
1 million students were enrolled in school in 2001, none 
of  them  girls.  Today  more  than  8.3  million  students 
attend  school,  one  third  of  whom  are  girls.  In  2001 
there was virtually no independent Afghan media, only 
Taliban  propaganda.  Today  Afghans  can  listen  to  175 
FM radio stations, watch 75 television channels and read 
hundreds  of  print  publications.  The  progress  we  have 
witnessed has changed people’s lives for the better and 
offers a sound foundation on which the Afghan people, 
with international support, can — and will — build a 
brighter future for their country.
Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea): The Republic 
of  Korea  welcomes  the  first  democratic  transition  of 
power  in  Afghanistan’s  history.  We  believe  that  the 
recent inauguration of the new Afghan President, based 
on  the  political  agreement  to  form  a  Government  of 
National Unity, signals a new era of Afghan-led efforts 
towards peace and prosperity.
In  particular,  we  appreciate  the  courage  and 
determination of the Afghan people, especially Afghan 
women, who actively participated in elections despite 
14-64064
17/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
violence  threatened  by  the  Taliban  and  other  terrorist 
groups. The support of the United Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan and of global electoral observers 
during the electoral process is also commendable.
rights.  Given 
The new Afghan Government faces a multitude of 
challenges,  including  issues  of  security,  governance 
and  human 
the  Afghan  National 
Security  Forces’  assumption  of  full  responsibility  for 
security  and  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force’s withdrawal at the end of this year, continuous 
international  assistance  is  critical.  In  that  regard, 
we  appreciate  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  (ISAF)  leaders’  Wales  Summit  declaration  in 
September,  which  envisages  the  establishment  of  the 
short-term  Resolute  Support  Mission  to  train,  advise 
and  assist  the  Afghan  forces,  and  their  commitment 
to continuously finance the Afghan National Security 
Forces  beyond  2014.  We  also  welcome  the  conclusion 
of the bilateral security agreement between the United 
States  and  Afghanistan  and 
the  status-of-forces 
agreement between NATO and Afghanistan.
the 
transition 
requires  not  only  a  process  to  improve  the  security 
situation,  but  also  the  full  assumption  of  Afghan 
leadership and ownership over governance. The decision 
of  the  international  community  to  muster  long-term 
support depends on the Afghan Government’s progress 
in  key  areas  under  the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability 
Framework.  The  London  Conference  on  Afghanistan 
in  December  will  serve  as  an  important  opportunity 
to  review  the  progress  made  and  to  reaffirm  the 
international community’s commitments.
My  delegation  recognizes 
that 
The Afghan Government must redouble its efforts 
in  the  promotion  of  human  rights,  especially  those  of 
women, as well as good governance, including its fight 
against corruption and the illicit economy. We call for 
the full implementation of the law on the elimination of 
violence against women and the anti-money-laundering 
law in that regard.
Enhanced regional dialogue and confidence-building 
measures  are  also  important  to  ensure  lasting  peace 
and security in Afghanistan. We note the fourth Heart 
of  Asia  Ministerial  Conference,  held  in  Beijing  on 
31 October, and the Beijing declaration, which furthered 
the Istanbul Process.
National  reconciliation  owned  by  Afghans  and 
led by Afghans will be essential for lasting peace and 
security  in  Afghanistan.  We  look  forward  to  further 
progress  on  political  dialogue  and  peace  negotiations 
among  all  the  relevant  stakeholders  under  a  newly 
launched Afghan Government of unity.
Today’s draft resolution (A/69/L.20), to be adopted 
by consensus, embodies the political will of all Member 
States  to  support  the  Afghan  people  in  their  political 
and  national  reconstruction  process.  The  Republic  of 
Korea has actively taken part in the global contribution 
to  reconstruction  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  since 
it  joined  the  ISAF  contributing  nations  in  2010.  As 
part  of  such  efforts,  our  provincial  reconstruction 
team  operated  in  Parwan  province  until  June,  with 
a  focus  mainly  on  four  key  areas  —  medical  and 
health,  education,  governance  and  rural  development. 
Moreover, my Government has contributed $250 million 
in financial assistance to date, for both the sustainment 
of  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  and  the 
socioeconomic  development  of  Afghanistan,  since  it 
pledged in 2011 to provide $500 million to Afghanistan.
We  will  continue  our  support  to  Afghanistan, 
including financial contributions beyond 2014, so that 
the  Afghan  Government  and  its  people  can  achieve  a 
prosperous, stable and democratic Afghanistan for all 
Afghans.
Mrs.  Jakubonė  (Lithuania):  At  the  outset,  allow 
me  to  thank  Germany  and  other  States  for  preparing 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
(A/69/L.20). Lithuania looks forward to its adoption by 
consensus.
Lithuania aligns itself with the statement delivered 
on behalf of the European Union.
This  year  has  presented  a  number  of  challenges 
for  the  Afghan  nation,  which  it  has  successfully  met. 
The presidential elections marked the first democratic 
transition  in  the  modern  history  of  Afghanistan. 
Moreover,  the  elections  took  place  at  a  time  when 
the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  assumed  their 
responsibilities for safeguarding the country. Although 
the situation remains fragile, the successful completion 
of those processes proves the willingness and capability 
of Afghanistan to continue on its path towards creating 
a stable, peaceful and prosperous country where every 
man, woman and child can feel safe and secure.
Afghanistan now urgently needs a fully functioning 
Government of national unity that is able to implement 
the necessary and pressing reforms. A particular focus 
needs to be placed on improving the rule of law, dealing 
with  the  security  situation,  protecting  human  rights, 
18/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
fighting  corruption  and  combating  drug  production 
and trafficking. Illicit opium production threatens the 
security and development of the country and the whole 
region, as the Afghanistan Opium Survey 2014 shows a 
worrying trend of increasing opium poppy cultivation. 
We call on Afghanistan and the international community 
to intensify their joint efforts in supporting alternative 
livelihoods and fighting organized crime.
Lithuania has been a firm partner of Afghanistan, 
a  supporter  and  contributor  in  achieving  its  main 
goals.  Our  political  and  development  cooperation, 
including  support  for  institutional  capacity-building, 
civil society, economic growth and social development 
and promotion of regional initiatives, will continue, as 
stated  at  the  Chicago  Summit,  the  Tokyo  Conference 
and other meetings.
Lithuania,  which 
has 
a 
undergone 
the  past  several  decades, 
radical 
transformation  over 
is 
ready  to  share  its  experience  in  a  number  of  areas 
of  State-building,  including  strengthening  regional 
cooperation.  In  our  view,  regional  cooperation  is  of 
crucial  importance  for  strengthening  stability  and 
facilitating  the  development  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
entire region. We support regional initiatives involving 
Afghanistan such as the Istanbul Process, the Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  and  others.  The 
future  of  Afghanistan  also  depends  on  the  positive 
engagement of its neighbours.
As  the  International  Security  Assistance  Force 
mission  winds  down,  the  sustained  capacity-building 
of the Afghan National Security Forces is essential for 
the maintenance of security and stability in the country. 
Lithuania will continue supporting the Afghan National 
Security Forces with financial contributions as well as 
through participation in the Resolute Support Mission. 
This non-combat mission, aimed at training, assisting 
and  mentoring  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces, 
builds  on  the  results  achieved  by  the  International 
Security Assistance Force.
The  invitation  extended  by  Afghan  Government 
to  continue  to  train,  advise  and  assist  the  Afghan 
National Security Forces, and the signing of the United 
States-Afghanistan  bilateral  security  agreement  and 
the  NATO-Afghanistan  status-of-forces  agreement 
offer a solid legal basis for the new mission. We urge 
Afghanistan  to  ratify  both  agreements  so  that  future 
security assistance can continue unhindered. Lithuania 
would  also  welcome  a  Security  Council  resolution, 
which  should  be  prepared  in  consultation  with  the 
Afghan Government.
Another  area  in  which  Lithuania  contributes  to 
the  efforts  of  Afghanistan’s  Government  is  through 
its participation in the European Union Police Mission 
in  Afghanistan  (EUPOL).  The  decision  to  extend 
EUPOL’s mandate in Afghanistan until the end of 2016 
is  a  welcome  one.  Lithuania  is  planning  to  continue 
its  participation  in  this  important  Mission,  which  has 
provided much-needed training for the Afghan civilian 
police  and  support  to  the  Afghan  authorities  at  the 
strategic level.
The  presence  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission 
in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  has  been  of 
crucial  importance  to  the  advancement  of  human 
rights,  democratic  processes  and 
the  country’s 
overall  development,  and  as  Afghanistan  starts  its 
transformation  decade,  UNAMA’s  role  will  become 
more prominent and essential.
I would now like to turn to the situation of Afghan 
women.  Violence  against  women 
in  Afghanistan 
remains  underreported,  especially  in  rural  areas.  We 
call  on  the  Afghan  Government  to  step  up  efforts  to 
fully implement the recommendations of the Committee 
on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, 
the  country’s  law  on  eliminating  violence  against 
women and its recently adopted national action plan for 
women, peace and security. Involving women genuinely 
and  meaningfully  in  the  peace,  reconciliation  and 
development processes, ensuring the safety and dignity 
of women public servants and recruiting, training and 
retaining  women  for  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces are all essential for the future Afghanistan. The 
prominent  role  that  the  First  Lady  of  Afghanistan  is 
willing to take will, hopefully, produce positive results, 
including in engaging women and strengthening their 
rights.  We  hope  this  progressive  momentum  can  be 
sustained.  Afghanistan  needs  to  find  solutions  suited 
to the Afghan way of life and yet able to improve the 
female population’s situation.
In conclusion, as Afghanistan enters its transformation 
decade,  the  support  of  the  international  community 
and  countries  in  the  region  will  be  essential.  The 
National  Unity  Government,  the  Afghan  people  and 
the international community must work in unison for a 
better future for Afghanistan.
Mr. Kydyrov (Kyrgyzstan): At the outset, I would 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
14-64064
19/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
General for his comprehensive report on the situation 
in Afghanistan (A/69/540), and to thank the Permanent 
Mission of Germany for conducting consultations and 
introducing today’s draft resolution (A/69/L.20).
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
earlier by the representative of the Russian Federation 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization.  However,  I  would  also 
like to make a statement in my national capacity.
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  supports  the  efforts  of 
Afghanistan  to  establish  peace  and  security  in  the 
country, build effectively functioning State institutions 
and develop its economy to further the prosperity of the 
Afghan  people.  We  respect  the  Afghan  people’s  right 
to choose their own path to political development and 
emerge successfully from a transitional period. In that 
regard, we congratulate Afghanistan on its completion 
of  elections  and  establishment  of  a  Government  of 
National Unity. The peaceful and democratic transition 
of power from one President to the next creates a solid 
foundation  for  the  country’s  peaceful  and  sustainable 
development.
In  a  message  congratulating  the  new  President  of 
Afghanistan,  Mr.  Ashraf  Ghani,  President  Almazbek 
Atambaev  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  expressed  his 
readiness  to  further  strengthen  brotherly  relations 
between  Kyrgyzstan  and  Afghanistan  and  the  two 
countries’  cooperation  in  areas  of  mutual  interest. 
The  Kabul  Embassy  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  which 
officially  opened  in  February,  is  actively  promoting 
the development of bilateral relations and becoming an 
important link in the joint promotion and implementation 
of regional projects.
We  are  still  seriously  concerned  about 
the 
persistently unstable security situation in Afghanistan. 
As  the  Secretary-General  points  out  in  his  report, 
insurgent groups, international terrorists and associated 
networks took advantage of the prolonged political and 
electoral  crisis  to  mount  major  assaults  around  the 
country.  Kyrgyzstan  condemns  the  continued  attacks 
on innocent civilians, particularly women and children, 
and is of the view that the transfer of responsibility for 
security should be gradual and orderly so as to ensure 
the overall stability of the country and in the region as 
a whole.
Achieving  full  national  reconciliation  is  one  of 
the  main  preconditions  for  ensuring  lasting  peace  in 
Afghanistan.  We  support  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-
owned  inclusive  peace  and  reconciliation  process, 
which  should  be  implemented  by  the  Afghan  people 
themselves  and  in  the  interests  of  all  Afghans.  A 
comprehensive  peace  process  should  be  open  to  all 
interested  parties  ready  to  reject  violence,  break  off 
links  with  international  terrorism  and  respect  the 
Constitution of Afghanistan.
According to the most recent report of the United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime — the Afghanistan 
Opium Survey 2014 — the opium crop in Afghanistan 
will hit a new high this year. It is a serious threat to the 
national security both of Afghanistan and the countries 
of  Eurasia.  Despite  the  activities  being  conducted  in 
the  framework  of  national  and  regional  anti-narcotic 
strategies and programmes, we have not fully stopped 
the  flow  of  drugs  from  Afghanistan  via  the  so-called 
northern  drug-trafficking  route.  The  situation 
is 
worsened because revenues from illicit drug production 
and  trafficking  serve  as  a  major  funding  source  for 
terrorist and extremist groups. That in turn undermines 
the  security  system  both  in  the  country  and  in  the 
region  as  a  whole.  We  therefore  call  on  our  regional 
partners and the relevant United Nations bodies to step 
up further joint efforts to counter the illicit production 
and trafficking of drugs in and around Afghanistan.
Sustained and comprehensive economic development 
in  Afghanistan  is  crucial  not  only  to  combating  the 
challenges  the  country  faces  today,  but  also  to  its 
achievement of long-term security and stability. In that 
regard, there is an urgent need to pay special attention 
to  rebuilding  Afghanistan’s  economic  infrastructure 
and to fully implement the considerable commitments 
to  Afghanistan’s 
economic 
development that have been made at major international 
and regional conferences.
reconstruction 
and 
We believe that involving Afghanistan in regional 
cooperation  and  promoting  its  trade  and  economic 
relations  with  neighbouring  States  will  play  a  strong 
part  in  ensuring  peace,  stability,  development  and 
trust  in  the  region  and  beyond.  As  a  participant 
in  several  regional  organizations,  Kyrgyzstan 
is 
ready  to  contribute  to  that  process.  It  is  important 
that  Afghanistan  be  involved  in  regional  economic 
integration through the implementation of joint social, 
economic  and 
infrastructure  projects.  Kyrgyzstan 
fully  supports  measures  aimed  at  promoting  regional 
economic cooperation by developing infrastructure in 
the areas of energy, transport and communications. We 
are very interested in implementing projects exporting 
20/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
energy  to  Afghanistan  through  the  framework  of  the 
Central  Asia  South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission 
and  Trade  Project  and  by  establishing  a  tripartite 
agricultural consortium between Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan 
and Afghanistan, as well as by constructing railroads 
that connect Afghanistan with its neighbours.
In conclusion, I would like once again to reiterate 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic’s  principled  position  of  respect 
for  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  unity  of 
Afghanistan,  and  its  readiness  to  assist  Afghanistan 
in  achieving  lasting  peace,  sustainable  security  and 
economic development.
Mr.  Sareer  (Maldives):  The  Maldives  delegation 
welcomes  the  comprehensive  report  submitted  to  the 
Assembly by the Secretary-General on the situation in 
Afghanistan (A/69/540).
My delegation follows the situation in Afghanistan 
with  much  interest,  and  often  with  deep  concern.  For 
a number of years, the country remained in a constant 
state  of  civil  war,  with  low  productive  capacity  and 
failed governance arrangements. In April, hope dawned 
on Afghanistan — hope for a fresh start and progress 
for  the  better.  After  remaining  deadlocked  for  nearly 
four months, the leaders of Afghanistan finally showed 
maturity  and  reconciled  the  differences  that  had 
emerged  after  the  presidential  election.  The  Maldives 
welcomes  the  efforts  made  by  both  parties  that  had 
contested  the  election  to  reach  a  resolution  and  put 
their  differences  aside.  We  furthermore  congratulate 
the leadership for their willingness to put the interests 
of  the  Afghan  people  ahead  of  personal  or  political 
agendas  and  join  hands  in  a  unity  Government.  The 
solidarity shown by both leaders is commendable and 
demonstrates their commitment to take the country into 
a new phase of prosperity and development.
Our  own  experience  with  democratization  is  that 
the  hard  work  does  not  stop  with  elections.  That  is 
just one step. The real task involves cultivating norms 
and  values  that  bolster  democratization.  It  involves 
changing  people’s  perceptions  and  way  of  thinking. 
Institutions and systems need to develop slowly and, we 
ardently believe, organically. We therefore call on the 
international community to allow Afghanistan the time 
and  patience  to  find  its  own  path  towards  democracy 
consolidation.
As  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
insurgent  groups  and  international  terrorist  networks 
are  taking  advantage  of  the  country’s  dire  security 
situation  resulting  from  the  protracted  political  and 
electoral crisis. The Maldives welcomes the continuous 
efforts by Afghanistan to combat the insurgency and the 
terrorist activities. In particular, we note the enactment, 
in  June,  of  two  landmark  statutes  in  Afghanistan  to 
combat money laundering and terrorist financing. We 
are  also  encouraged  by  the  expansion  of  the  security 
initiative  of  the  Afghan  local  police  overseen  by  the 
Ministry of the Interior. Those developments give rise 
to hope for stability and security for the Afghan people.
As  Afghanistan  endures  security  challenges, 
political crises and economic hardship, those that suffer 
the most are the vulnerable populations. The Secretary-
General’s  report  highlights  some  of  the  key  issues 
faced  by  vulnerable  populations,  including  women 
and  children,  and  notes  the  Government’s  actions  in 
addressing those issues.
The Maldives welcomes the progress made in the 
implementation of the 2011 action plan for preventing 
underage  recruitment, 
including  age  verification, 
screening  of  new  recruits  and  the  training  of  Afghan 
security forces in respect of children in armed conflict. 
My  delegation  furthermore  welcomes  the  continuing 
efforts  by  the  international  community,  especially 
the  United  Nations,  in  providing  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan with technical support and advice on the 
elimination of violence against women.
The  Maldives  acknowledges  the  challenges  faced 
by  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  addressing 
some  of  those  human  rights  issues  and  calls  on  all 
stakeholders  —  including  the  Government,  private 
institutions  and  the  international  community  —  to 
continue  increased  efforts  towards  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights in the country.
The  Maldives  believes  that  increased  regional 
integration is of the utmost importance and contributes 
to confidence-building, which in turn greatly benefits 
the  stability  and  prosperity  of  Afghanistan.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  heartening  to  note  that  Afghanistan  has 
continued  to  engage  its  neighbours  in  promoting 
regional  cooperation.  As  a  fellow  member  of  the 
South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation, 
the  Maldives  takes  this  opportunity  to  reinforce  its 
brotherly affection by calling upon all of our regional 
members to maintain their support and commitment to 
Afghanistan and embrace it in its quest for peace and 
prosperity.
14-64064
21/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  cannot  be  resolved 
in isolation. Continued assistance and coordination on 
the  part  of  the  international  community  and  regional 
collaboration are required to lift the country out of civil 
war and strife and aid its transition to a new phase of 
development.
Despite all of the hardships faced by the people of 
Afghanistan, the fact remains that they have persevered 
through  difficult  times  with  courage  for  over  three 
decades. Like many speakers before me, my delegation 
today reiterates the call on the international community 
to help the country through its transition for the sake of 
the people of Afghanistan and the region.
Mr. Vencel (Slovakia): Slovakia aligns itself with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Tanin 
for his presence here and for his important statement.
Our  thanks  also  go  to  the  German  delegation 
for  its  continued  successful  leadership  during  this 
year’s  negotiations  on  the  important  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.20, which my country readily co-sponsored.
Recently, the Security Council and the international 
community  hailed  the  Afghan  people  and  authorities 
for their tenacity in successfully completing a peaceful 
and  democratic  transfer  of  power  this  year  and  their 
vision  for  the  future  of  the  country.  The  conclusion 
of  the  Afghan  presidential  elections  and  subsequent 
move to form a Government of national unity represent 
an  unprecedented  political  transition.  That  spirit  of 
collaboration  should  remain  part  and  parcel  of  the 
economic and human development, ensuring the rule of 
law and peace and reconciliation efforts in the months 
and years ahead.
The political transition coincides with the country’s 
security  transition  as  Afghan  forces  take  over  full 
responsibility  from  the  international  partners  that 
are  expected  to  end  their  missions  in  December.  The 
challenging  period  of  ongoing  parallel  transitions  in 
the security, military and economic spheres, as well as 
the  political  arena,  will  be  critically  important  to  the 
country’s future. The Security Council and the United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), 
in  cooperation  with  the  Afghan  Government,  must 
continue  playing  an  important  role  in  facilitating 
a  peaceful  political  transition  in  Afghanistan  and 
ensuring coherent approaches to equitable sustainable 
development.
Slovakia, based on its own history of transition, is 
fully aware of the fact that the transformation process 
is often found to be the opposite of easy. We would like 
to take this opportunity to assure Afghanistan and its 
people of our long-term commitment to participate in the 
transformation and consolidation efforts of the country 
alongside our partners in the international community. 
In that regard, we anticipate close cooperation with the 
new Afghan Government, with whom we are willing to 
share our own transitional experience.
Reforms in Afghanistan are necessary. We therefore 
welcome  the  adoption  of  the  Afghanistan  national 
development  strategy  and  the  ideas  outlined  by  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  in  its  strategy  document 
entitled “Towards self-reliance: strategic vision for the 
transformation  decade”.  Since  public  administration 
is  key  in  that  regard,  we  urge  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan to continue to effectively reform the public 
administration sector in order to implement the rule of 
law and ensure good governance and accountability.
bilateral 
security 
Slovakia  welcomed  the  signing  of  the  United 
States-Afghanistan 
agreement 
and  the  status-of-forces  agreement  between  NATO 
and  Afghanistan.  The  signing  of  those  agreements 
represents  an  important  step  in  the  process  of  the 
ongoing  efforts 
the  security 
situation in Afghanistan, which is a prerequisite for the 
development of the country.
towards  stabilizing 
In  cooperation  with  its  international  partners, 
Slovakia  is  committed  to  further  reinforcing  security 
in the country and in the follow-up to the finalizing of 
the International Security Assistance Force mission in 
Afghanistan in 2014. Slovakia is also ready to take part 
in the NATO Resolute Support mission to train, advise 
and assist as of 2015.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  sincere 
gratitude also to the Secretary-General and his Special 
Representative for Afghanistan, Mr. Ján Kubiš, for their 
dedication  and  leadership.  I  would  like  to  commend 
the  United  Nations  for  its  work  in  supervising  the 
unprecedented  election  audit.  I  also  wish  to  thank 
the  team  of  the  Mission  for  their  professional  work 
in  difficult  conditions  and  to  reiterate  my  country’s 
full  support  for  the  irreplaceable  role  that  UNAMA 
is playing. We wish the new Special Representative of 
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Nicholas  Haysom,  every 
success in his new appointment. We continue to offer 
him our full support.
22/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
Mr.  Kassim  (Malaysia):  I  wish  to  extend  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  latest 
report on the situation in Afghanistan (A/69/540). My 
delegation would like to highlight some perspectives on 
the situation in Afghanistan that Malaysia considers to 
be important.
in  the  country.  While  the  ANSF  fulfils  its  primary 
responsibility  for  security,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
international community continue to provide the ANSF 
with  the  support  needed  to  ensure  that  its  forces  are 
equipped and trained to counter threats to security in 
the country.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  this  meeting 
has  been  convened  in  a  timely  manner.  We  welcome 
the  formation  of  the  Government  of  national  unity  in 
Afghanistan,  which  is  a  positive  step  forward  for  its 
people.  We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  United 
Nations for the supervisory role it assumed in the second 
round  of  voting  in  the  presidential  elections  in  June. 
Through that cooperation between the Government and 
the  United  Nations,  Afghanistan  has  embraced  a  new 
Government that is inclusive and representative of its 
people.
Malaysia 
is  heartened  by 
the  courage  and 
determination  of 
the  millions  of  Afghans  who 
participated  in  the  first  and  second  rounds  of  voting. 
The  large  turnout  reflected  the  people’s  aspirations 
to  achieve  a  peaceful  and  democratic  transition  in 
leadership.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  people  of 
Afghanistan as they embark on the journey whose first 
milestone is the formation on 29 September of a national 
unity Government. Malaysia is confident that the new 
Government  will  bring  about  continued  stability, 
progress and development despite the many challenges 
it  faces.  We  would  encourage  the  new  Government 
to  continue  to  promote  its  ambitious  transformation 
decade programme for the period 2015 to 2024, with an 
eye towards developing a new vision for the country’s 
future.
the 
to  monitor 
Malaysia  continues 
the  security 
developments  in  Afghanistan  with  strong  interest. 
The  expected  withdrawal  of 
International 
Security  Assistance  Force  by  the  end  of  2014  means 
that  the  Afghan  Unity  Government  will  assume  full 
responsibility for the security and safety of its people 
and  for  its  territorial  integrity.  Malaysia  is  concerned 
that the country continues to face security challenges 
and to experience incidents of violence in the country. 
Malaysia condemns acts of violence in all its forms and 
manifestations, including those acts.
Despite the incidents of violence, Malaysia remains 
confident  that  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces 
(ANSF)  will  be  able  to  shoulder  the  responsibility 
of  protecting  the  people  and  maintaining  security 
The  work  of 
the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  in  cooperation 
with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan,  deserves  to  be 
commended  as  well.  UNAMA  has  been  active  in 
reinforcing  sovereignty,  leadership  and  ownership 
in  the  country.  Its  comprehensive  approach  has  been 
effective in laying down the foundations for sustainable 
development 
supporting 
confidence-building measures within the framework of 
the Afghan Constitution.
in  Afghanistan,  while 
On  another  note,  Malaysia  has  always  been 
supportive of stability and progress in Afghanistan. Our 
track record on that can be seen with the deployment 
of  the  medical  contingent  from  the  Malaysian  Armed 
Forces.  Stationed  in  the  Bamyan  province,  our  forces 
were active in providing much-needed medical services 
from July 2010 to April 2013.
Malaysia’s assistance to Afghanistan does not stop 
there.  As  a  moderate  and  progressive  Muslim  nation, 
we will continue to provide opportunities for capacity-
building  and  human  resource  development  in  the 
country. Through the Malaysian technical cooperation 
programme, we will continuously share our experiences 
in the fields of development and public administration 
as  pillars  of  a  developing  nation.  We  strongly  believe 
that  Afghanistan  could  benefit  from  the  sharing  of 
experience and expertise that Malaysia has to offer.
We  have  seen  a  significant  development 
in 
Afghanistan with the formation of a united Government. 
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  is  an  opportunity  for 
Member States to continue our support to that nation. Its 
people have demonstrated the political will to embrace 
a new era of democratic and inclusive governance. In 
that  regard,  we  must  not  turn  our  backs  on  them,  but 
instead lend them our helping hand.
Malaysia is pleased to co-sponsor draft resolution 
A/69/L.20,  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  We  will 
continue to be a partner to Afghanistan in this moment 
of progress and development.
Mr. Çevik (Turkey): Turkey is pleased to co-sponsor 
the draft resolution before us today (A/69/L.20), and we 
look forward to its adoption by consensus.
14-64064
23/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
and 
capacity- 
Afghanistan  is  going  through  a  crucial  phase 
in  terms  of  its  political,  security  and  economic 
transformation.  The  gains  in  the  country  in  the  past 
13 years, including in the fields of security, democracy, 
governance, 
institution-building, 
economic  development  and  human  rights,  should  be 
commended. Nevertheless, those achievements have not 
yet reached a point of no return, and major challenges 
remain  to  be  tackled.  Therefore,  the  international 
community’s continuing support is vital for a peaceful, 
secure and stable Afghanistan to be able to effectively 
serve the needs of its people. With that understanding, 
the  comprehensive  role  assumed  by 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
in  Afghanistan  in  supporting  the  Afghan  people  will 
continue to be critical.
We  welcome  the  successful  continuation  of  the 
political transition process in Afghanistan. Indeed, the 
results of the presidential elections were a success for 
all of the Afghan people, as it demonstrated their strong 
will  and  courage  to  determine  their  own  future.  The 
developments have also proved the professionalism of 
the  Afghan  institutions  that  took  part  in  the  process. 
The  common  will  of  the  candidates  running  in  the 
second  round  of  the  elections  to  establish  a  national 
unity Government independent of the election results is 
of particular importance, since it has clearly displayed 
the  Afghan  people’s  determination  as  a  whole  to 
carry  their  country  forward,  as  well  as  their  belief 
in  a  common  ideal.  We  believe  that  Afghanistan  has 
emerged stronger from those experiences.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  by  the  end  of  2014  the 
Afghan  National  Security  Forces  will  assume  full 
security  responsibility  for  the  Afghan  people  and 
their  country.  However,  support  for  the  continued 
development  of  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces 
and institutions and wider cooperation with Afghanistan 
will  still  be  of  paramount  importance.  The  stability 
of  Afghanistan,  and  subsequently  that  of  the  region, 
will  depend  on  improved  security.  The  consequences 
of failure would be too immense for any of us to bear. 
Turkey remains committed to standing by the people of 
Afghanistan in this transition process, including in the 
fields of security and development.
In addition to Turkey’s financial commitments for 
the  funding  of  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces, 
Turkey will also assume the framework nation role for 
Kabul in the new mission that will be launched after the 
International Security Assistance Force is concluded by 
the end of 2014. Turkey will also undertake responsibility 
for  Kabul  International  Airport.  As  may  be  recalled, 
Mr.  Ismail  Aramaz,  Ambassador  of  the  Republic 
of  Turkey  to  Afghanistan,  was  recently  appointed 
as  the  next  NATO  senior  civilian  representative  in 
Afghanistan.
At  a  critical 
juncture  of  political,  security 
and  economic  transformation  in  Afghanistan,  the 
importance of regional cooperation and commitment is 
becoming  increasingly  relevant  to  efforts  to  steer  the 
region towards becoming a zone of peace, stability and 
prosperity.  The  region  has  demonstrated  on  various 
occasions its readiness to resolve its own problems and 
to  transform  common  problems  into  areas  of  mutual 
benefit.  We  welcome  all  bilateral  and  multilateral 
dialogue  and  cooperation  efforts  to  that  end.  With 
that  understanding,  we  also  welcome  the  increased 
momentum that has been achieved through the Istanbul 
Process  on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a 
Secure  and  Stable  Afghanistan  thus  far.  The  fourth 
Ministerial Conference of the Process, held in Beijing 
on 31 October, once again demonstrated the importance 
of promoting regional cooperation.
Turkey  welcomes  and  encourages  all  efforts 
to  enhance  connectivity  at  the  regional  level.  We 
believe that tangible projects emerging from increased 
cooperation  will  facilitate  economic  development, 
stability and self-sustainability in the region.
A  continued  display  of  will  by  the  international 
community  will  strengthen  the  hopes  of  the  Afghan 
people for a bright future. Turkey will always remain 
in solidarity with the Afghan people and will continue 
to  contribute  to  a  secure,  stable  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan, as we have done for so many years.
Ms.  Freimane-Deksne  (Latvia):  Latvia  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  (EU)  and  would  like  to  make  a  few 
remarks in our national capacity.
I would like to welcome the draft resolution to be 
adopted  today  (A/69/L.20),  which  Latvia  sponsored, 
and to commend the efforts by Germany, Afghanistan 
and all partners that led to a successful outcome. I would 
also like to thank Ambassador Tanin for his statement.
First  of  all,  Latvia  welcomes  the  conclusion  of 
Afghanistan’s presidential elections, the inauguration of 
the new President of Afghanistan and the formation of a 
Government of national unity. The Afghan people have 
demonstrated their clear desire for democracy. Now it 
24/26 
14-64064
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.57
is up to all parties in Afghanistan to work together and 
to  achieve  a  united,  peaceful,  secure  and  prosperous 
future  for  all  its  people.  Afghanistan  has  achieved 
remarkable progress in the past decade. It is imperative 
that that progress be sustained and that further reforms 
be  implemented.  Sustained  economic  growth  and  a 
State-building process that is founded on the principles 
of good governance, the rule of law and human rights, 
especially  the  rights  of  women  and  children,  should 
be  the  basis  for  a  democratic,  prosperous  and  stable 
Afghanistan.  We  welcome  the  upcoming  London 
Conference  as  an  important  opportunity  for  both  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  international 
community  to  restate  their  commitments  within  the 
mutual accountability framework.
is  essential 
to  achieving 
Continued  international  commitment  to  support 
Afghanistan 
long-term 
stability  and  sustaining  Afghanistan’s  transformation. 
Latvia remains committed to a lasting partnership with 
Afghanistan. We welcome the signing of the bilateral 
security  agreement  between 
the  Government  of 
Afghanistan and the United States and the NATO status-
of-forces  agreement  as  important  steps  for  securing 
future  international  support  in  providing  security  in 
Afghanistan. Latvia will take part in the International 
Security  Assistance  Force  operation  until  the  end  of 
this  year  and  is  fully  committed  to  participating  in 
the new Resolute Support Mission. Latvia has already 
committed to providing financial support to the Afghan 
National Security Forces on an annual basis from 2015 
to 2017. Latvia will also continue its participation in the 
civilian European Union Police Mission.
Moreover,  with  the  shifting  of  responsibilities  in 
Afghanistan,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan will 
only increase and will require continued support by the 
United Nations membership.
International commitment and support to Afghanistan 
should  go  hand  in  hand  with  regional  cooperation, 
stability  and  economic  development.  Afghanistan  lies 
at  the  crossroads  of  the  Middle  East,  Central  Asian 
and  South  Asian  regions,  each  of  them  with  its  own 
dynamics. However, we believe that middle ground can 
be found and a space could be created where differences 
are left behind and constructive engagement emerges. 
Latvia supports the process emerging from the Istanbul 
Process  Ministerial  Conference  as  an 
important 
opportunity  to  establish  such  a  space  of  constructive 
and consistent engagement by neighbouring countries.
In the first half of next year, Latvia will hold the 
presidency of the Council of the European Union, and 
the  strengthening  of  relations  between  the  EU  and 
Central Asia will be one of our presidency’s priorities. 
We believe that close cooperation with the Central Asian 
States  is  of  the  utmost  importance  for  the  promotion 
of  regional  security  and  economic  development.  The 
Latvian Government is currently looking for new ways 
to step up its development assistance in Afghanistan and 
Central Asia. For instance, Latvia has already provided 
training  for  Afghan  rail  and  civil  aviation  experts. 
Our  long-term  plans  include  providing  scholarships 
to Afghan students in the fields of customs, guarding 
borders and railways. We just launched a new training 
programme  for  the  Eastern  Partnership  region  and 
Central Asia, which could also be provided to Afghan 
students  interested  in  building  up  their  knowledge  of 
European law, economics and international affairs.
We believe that infrastructure projects that strengthen 
regional  connectivity  contribute  greatly  to  regional 
cooperation and economic development. To contribute 
to  those  efforts,  this  summer  Latvia  hosted  the  third 
High-Level  Conference  on  Transport,  Logistics  and 
Trade  Routes  on  the  theme  “Connecting  Asia  with 
Europe”. It brought together more than 400 participants 
from countries of the Far East, South and Central Asia 
and  from  partner  countries  of  the  China  and  Central 
and Eastern European cooperation programme. Latvia 
will continue its engagement in that regard.
During  Latvia’s  presidency  of 
the  European 
Union, we would like to organize, in the context of the 
Asia-Europe  Meeting,  the  third  transport  ministers’ 
meeting, side event and business forum on multimodal 
transportation networks, to be held in Riga from 29 to 
30 April 2015.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  that  Latvia  will 
remain  a  reliable  partner  for  both  Afghanistan  and 
the international community in joining our efforts for 
a  peaceful,  secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  and 
region.  An  Afghan  proverb  says  that  a  river  is  made 
drop by drop, and we truly believe that.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
in 
resolution  A/69/L.20,  entitled  “The  situation 
Afghanistan”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
14-64064
25/26
A/69/PV.57 
20/11/2014
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/69/L.20,  the  following  countries  have 
also become sponsors of the draft resolution: Albania, 
Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Belize,  Benin,  Canada,  China,  Costa  Rica,  Cyprus, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  Eritrea,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Guatemala, 
Ireland, 
Jordan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lesotho,  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New 
Zealand,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Peru,  the  Philippines, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  the  Russian 
Federation, San Marino, Senegal, Spain, Tajikistan, the 
Indonesia, 
Iceland, 
like 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan and the United States of America.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/69/L.20?
Draft resolution A/69/L.20 was adopted (resolution 
69/18).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 37?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.
26/26 
14-64064
