United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
17th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Gabriel Arcanjo Ferreira 
da Costa, Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Mr.  Gabriel  Arcanjo  Ferreira  da  Costa,  Prime 
Minister of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Gabriel Arcanjo Ferreira da Costa, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Da Costa  (Sao  Tome  and  Principe)  (spoke in 
Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation): It 
is a great honour and pleasure for me to take the floor 
for the first time in this world forum as Prime Minister 
and  Head  of  Government,  proudly  representing  the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
At  the  outset,  please  allow  me  to  congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly at the sixty-ninth session and to offer our full 
support  during  the  current  session,  which  we  wish  to 
be crowned with success. Your election resulted from 
the Member States’ recognition of the experience that 
the  Republic  of  Uganda  has  accumulated  and  of  the 
increasingly significant role that the African continent 
plays in the international community in consolidating 
peace  and  security  worldwide.  It  also  reflects  your 
efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development  for  the 
developing  countries,  in  addition  to  your  outstanding 
professional  qualifications,  which 
to  your 
technical knowledge and life experience. We are certain 
that your diplomatic experience will greatly contribute 
to the favourable outcome of our work and help us to 
discover ways of resolving matters of major concern to 
the international community. 
testify 
We also welcome the important and relevant theme 
of  this  session,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda,  when  properly 
defined and structured, will certainly become a useful 
instrument to guide developing countries, particularly 
those  of 
to  sustainable 
development.
the  African  continent, 
We wish to express our appreciation to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  competent,  selfless 
and  zealous  stewardship  of  the  Organization.  We 
congratulate  Mr.  John  William  Ashe,  who  zealously 
and  selflessly  presided  over  the  deliberations  of  the 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-eighth  session  for  the  past 
12 months. 
The pertinence of the theme chosen for the sixty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  clear  in 
the  light  of  the  persisting  economic  and  financial 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55181 (E)
*1455181*
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
crisis  that  continues  to  ravage  the  world.  We  must 
combine  our  efforts  and  focus  them  on  building  the 
more  just  and  auspicious  future  to  which  our  peoples 
legitimately  aspire.  To  that  end,  Africa  has  identified 
the  six  pillars  on  which  its  sustainable  development 
should  rest:  structural  economic  transformation  and 
inclusive growth; science, technology and innovation; 
people-centred 
environmental 
sustainability,  natural  resources  management  and 
disaster management; peace and security; and finance 
and partnerships. 
development; 
From  our  perspective,  those  pillars  emanate  from 
the aspirations of our African nations. All partners of 
the  African  continent  should  take  them  into  account 
in  the  arduous  efforts  to  bring  about  sustainable  and 
equitable development and enhance the dignity of our 
peoples. Therefore, Sao Tome and Principe believes in 
sustainable development in Africa, based on the pillars 
proposed by the African Union. It calls on the United 
Nations to adapt its programme to the specific realities 
of Africa, without losing sight of the accomplishments 
of  certain  countries  in  attaining  some  of  the  eight 
Millennium Development Goals.
It  is  an  indisputable  fact  that  the  raison  d’être  of 
the  United  Nations  is  to  maintain  peace  and  security 
around  the  world,  which  is  a  sine  qua  non  for  the 
promotion  of  development.  However,  in  the  light  of 
the  significant  changes  that  the  world  has  undergone 
since  the  establishment  of  our  Organization  in  1945, 
we must stress the urgent need to adapt it to the new 
challenges  of  our  time.  Therefore,  we  again  reiterate 
our call for the acceleration of the ongoing process of 
reform throughout the entire United Nations system, in 
order to imbue its operations with greater dynamism, 
representativeness, 
and 
legitimacy, thereby leadingto the maintenance of peace 
and security and thus to the promotion of development 
worldwide.
effectiveness, 
capacity 
We unfortunately continue to observe the persistence 
of  some  conflict  areas  and  the  outbreak  of  new 
tensions,  with  alarmingly  significant  humanitarian 
repercussions, throughout the world. In Mali and in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, despite the relative 
stabilization  of  conflict  zones  as  a  result  of  United 
Nations efforts, we think that the combined operations 
must  continue  in  order  to  consolidate  and  strengthen 
the achievements. 
We are grateful for the resolution of the situation 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  where  the  transition  process  has 
led to the election of a new President of the Republic 
and  a  new  Government,  thereby  repositioning  the 
country  in  accordance  with  regular  and  institutional 
democratic  processes.  However,  it  is  incumbent  on 
the  international  community,  particularly  the  United 
Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community 
of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Community 
of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  to  continue  to 
collaborate  and  combine  their  efforts  to  consolidate 
the democratic rule of law so that our sister nation may 
advance the progress and well-being of its people.
It is with enormous and fraternal satisfaction that 
we  commend  the  political  actors  in  Mozambique  for 
their  great  maturity  and  for  taking  into  account  the 
higher  interests  of  their  people  by  recently  signing  a 
peace agreement, thereby avoiding more suffering and 
loss of human lives.
With  regard  to  the  Central  African  Republic,  we 
welcome the decision of the United Nations to dispatch 
the Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission 
in  the  Central  African  Republic  to  end  the  suffering 
of that country’s people and clear the way for national 
reconciliation.  The  reconciliation  process  began  with 
the recent Brazzaville forum and should be completed 
by the Bangui forum and the holding of elections. These 
should open a window of opportunity for the resolution 
of the disturbing crisis in the Central African Republic, 
which  is  in  our  subregion,  and  enable  it  to  return  to 
institutional normalcy.
With  respect  to  South  Sudan,  we  encourage 
efforts  to  convince  the  conflicting  parties  to  engage 
in  negotiations  with  a  view  to  seeking  solutions  for 
their  existing  differences  and  ending  the  suffering  of 
innocent civilians. In Western Sahara, the long-standing 
situation continues to be a matter of concern for us and 
to require a greater involvement from the international 
community  so  that  the  long  negotiation  process  can 
finally be completed. Therefore, we renew our call for 
the involved parties to return to the negotiating table in 
order to reach a mutually acceptable political solution.
In the light of the resurgence of acts of international 
terrorism  everywhere,  it  is  imperative  for  all  the 
members of the international community to coordinate 
their actions, since that is the only way the world will 
be able to overcome that scourge. To that end, we wish 
to  note  our  apprehension  and  express  our  concern 
2/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
with regard to the actions perpetrated by Boko Haram 
in  our  neighbour,  the  Republic  of  Nigeria,  and  the 
consequences  of  such  actions.  Nigeria  is  a  country 
with  which  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  maintains  ties  of 
friendship and multiple relations of understanding and 
cooperation in areas of common interest. 
We are also troubled by the recent phenomenon of 
the Islamic State and its implications. The Middle East, 
unfortunately, continues on the path of bloody conflicts. 
These  have  taken  an  enormous  number  of  human 
lives,  owing  to  the  long-standing  hostilities  between 
Israel  and  Palestine,  whose  devastating  consequences 
the  world  recently  witnessed.  Therefore,  we  welcome 
the  recent  ceasefire  between  the  two  parties,  and  we 
renew our call for a negotiated solution that will ensure 
the  Palestinian  people’s  right  to  control  their  own 
destiny, as well as the State of Israel’s right to exist, in 
accordance with the relevant resolutions.
disastrous 
humanitarian 
Similarly,  there  is  no  military  solution  for  the 
persistent  internal  conflict  in  Syria,  which  has  also 
created 
consequences. 
Therefore,  we  welcome  the  recent  ceasefire  between 
the parties and renew our call for a compromise to be 
reached, with the help and support of the international 
community, in order to end the hostilities and clear the 
way  for  a  frank  dialogue  across  the  negotiating  table 
and a political solution for lasting peace.
As  to  the  conflict  in  Ukraine,  which  is  also 
causing the loss of many human lives, the Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe regrets the situation 
and  calls  on  the  parties  to  move  forward  rapidly, 
through  dialogue,  in  resolving  their  differences.  The 
international  community  must  make  all  efforts  to 
facilitate such dialogue.
We believe that the Assembly will agree with us when 
we say that global security is vital for the sustainable 
development  of  our  countries.  Therefore,  considering 
that Sao Tome and Principe is centrally located in the 
Gulf  of  Guinea,  a  region  that  is  strongly  affected  by 
piracy, terrorism, drug trafficking and other illicit acts 
committed at sea, we have taken national steps to fight 
those phenomena, including the drafting of a legislative 
framework for the modernization of the armed forces, 
based on a strategy that focuses decisively on the sea 
and its resources.
At  the  subregional  level,  we  have  worked,  as 
part  of  the  tripartite  partnership  of  ECOWAS,  the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States  and 
the  Gulf  of  Guinea  Commission,  to  implement  the 
recommendations  of  the  Summit  of  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  on  Maritime  Safety  and  Security 
in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  held  in  Yaoundé.  To  that  end, 
we  welcome  the  progress  achieved  in  the  process  of 
establishing  the  Interregional  Coordination  Centre, 
which is scheduled to begin operations very soon, and 
we  renew  our  call  to  the  international  community  to 
continue  with  us  on  the  arduous  task  of  ensuring  our 
collective security.
We strongly believe that taking steps to reduce the 
harmful effects of climate change is a responsibility that 
must be shared by developing countries and developed 
countries alike, in order to ensure the continuity of the 
clean development mechanism, particularly for the least 
developed countries, as well as to mobilize the political 
will for a legally binding global agreement through the 
adoption of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  at  the  twenty-first  Conference  of 
the Parties, scheduled to take place in Paris in 2015.
The trade embargo imposed against Cuba decades 
ago constitutes another matter of great concern for us, 
and we therefore renew our call for the sanctions to be 
lifted. Cuba should be allowed to address its economic 
and  social  development  challenges  in  an  environment 
of normalcy, without the restrictions imposed by such 
sanctions, and to take better advantage of opportunities 
for trade relations on an equal footing with other States 
Members of our Organization.
The African continent is once again assailed by an 
epidemic  of  haemorrhagic  fever  caused  by  the  Ebola 
virus,  with  incalculable  consequences.  In  the  light  of 
the high level of mortality and the devastating effects 
of the disease, on the one hand, and the chance that it 
may  spread  to  other  areas  of  the  world,  on  the  other 
hand, we must urgently identify synergies to engage in 
an all-out struggle to save the thousands of lives that 
are threatened by this terrible scourge.
In  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  we  fortunately  have 
not  yet  seen  any  Ebola  cases.  However,  in  the  light 
of  our  country’s  vulnerability,  our  economic  and 
financial weaknesses, and our health institutions’ lack 
of  experience  in  dealing  with  the  outbreak,  we  have 
prepared a contingency plan and taken prevention and 
response measures, including entry and exit restrictions 
at our ports and airports, which may impact our fragile 
economy. Members will understand that we must count 
on  the  World  Health  Organization’s  help  and  on  the 
14-55181
3/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
support and experience of friendly nations in order to 
protect  our  population  against  all  sources  and  forms 
of  contamination.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  convening  a  high-
level meeting on the margins of this session in order to 
discuss the matter and take appropriate measures.
Before  I  finish  my  statement,  please  allow  me 
to  note  the  situation  of  calm  and  progress  between 
the  two  sides  on  the  Taiwan  Strait.  We  welcome  that 
environment and encourage the parties to develop their 
relations through negotiations. Our country is pleased 
to  see  the  participation  of  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan  in  the  General  Assembly  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  and  applauds  the  fact  that  Taiwan  was 
invited,  for  the  first  time  since  1971,  to  participate 
in  the  Assembly  of  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization in 2013.
Therefore, and considering the enormous potential 
of  Taiwan,  we  would  like  to  see  its  participation 
further  extend 
to  other  specialized  agencies  of 
the  United  Nations,  such  as  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, and to the 
implementation  process  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, in which it could be of significant help to the 
international community.
In conclusion, we reiterate our country’s willingness 
to  continue  to  participate  in  the  efforts  to  mobilize 
wills and facilitate synergies for the achievement of the 
basic  principles  and  noble  objectives  that  guided  the 
establishment of the United Nations.
It is certain that today we are a democratic country 
with a community of free citizens, but challenges will 
continue to arise in the future. Therefore, we have taken 
steps  to  consolidate  democracy,  so  that  our  citizens 
may have an increasingly aware and active involvement 
in our collective existence and the political debate may 
be broader and more responsible. It is hoped that these 
steps will enable compromises among all the political 
forces to be achieved and to serve as the basis for the 
reforms that our country needs. We are fully aware that 
our country’s economic performance hinges on political 
stability  and  our  citizens’  trust  in  our  democratic 
institutions.
I cannot conclude without informing the Assembly 
that  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  will  hold  long-awaited 
legislative, regional and local elections on 12 October. 
The  electoral  process 
in  an 
environment  of  full  normality,  and  we  have  resolved 
is  being  managed 
the  financial  difficulties  related  to  the  elections  with 
the  generous  support  of  our  development  partners,  to 
which we express our profound gratitude and esteem. 
We  expect  the  election  results  to  be  transparent  and 
fair,  as  our  tradition  dictates,  and  that  our  country 
will continue to be a benchmark of democracy in our 
subregion.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Gabriel  Arcanjo  Ferreira  da  Costa,  Prime 
Minister of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Manuel Vicente, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Angola
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Angola.
Mr. Manuel Vicente, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Angola, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Manuel Vicente, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Angola, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Vicente  (Angola)  (spoke 
in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  allow  me 
to congratulate you, Mr. Sam Kutesa, on your election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session, and to assure you of my country’s support as 
you fulfil your mission. I would also like to congratulate 
Ambassador  John  William  Ashe  for  the  competent 
manner  in  which  he  led  the  work  of  the  previous 
session. We extend our greetings to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon and commend him for his commitment to 
finding solutions to the issues facing the international 
community.
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking 
place  in  an  environment  that  gives  rise  to  concern 
due  to  the  aggravation  of  international  tensions,  the 
intensification of conflicts and the deepening of global 
crises that require effective and sustainable solutions. 
It is a matter of consensus that the solutions to common 
challenges are to be found in multilateral negotiations 
and  should  take  into  account  the  specificities  of  each 
4/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
country  and  each  people.  The  United  Nations  has 
always  been  and  will  continue  to  be  the  mainstay  of 
Member  States’  participation  in  decision-making  on 
issues of concern to the international community and 
in upholding the global values of tolerance and peaceful 
and harmonious coexistence of countries and peoples, 
in accordance with the principles set forth in the Charter  
of the United Nations and international law.
in January, and in that forum continues to promote the 
resolution of conflicts on the African continent with a 
view  to  attaining  stability,  political  and  institutional 
development, 
internal  and  border  security,  good 
governance  and  human  rights.  It  is  in  that  context 
that  Angola  is  engaged  in  the  peace  processes  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African 
Republic and the Great Lakes region.
Angola  would  once  again  like  to  reiterate  the 
importance  of  all  Member  States  joining  in  efforts 
to  make  the  United  Nations  a  strong  and  effective 
organization, and one that serves as the basis for a more 
balanced,  fair  and  inclusive  international  legal  order 
and global security system, while promoting confidence 
among States and strengthening relations of friendship 
and international cooperation. Our Organization should 
pay special attention to the resurgence of armed conflicts 
and their negative effects on populations, as well as to 
arms  flows,  trafficking  in  drugs  and  human  beings, 
transnational organized crime, international terrorism 
and  piracy  —  all  phenomena  that  have  an  adverse 
impact  on  economic  development  and  consequently 
impede the improvement of living conditions.
Religious 
in 
fundamentalism 
some  African 
countries  is  taking  on  such  violent  proportions  that 
it  poses  a  threat  to  regional  security,  with  serious 
consequences  for  peace,  stability  and  development. 
Angola  strongly  condemns  the  acts  committed  by 
terrorist groups and expresses its support for efforts to 
ensure the full neutralization of those groups. Angola 
supports  efforts  to  strengthen  the  crisis-management 
capacity of the United Nations and considers dialogue 
and  negotiation  to  be  the  best  means  of  resolving 
conflicts.
to  meet  our 
We  will  continue 
international 
obligations,  with  special  emphasis  on  the  African 
continent  and  the  regional  groupings  in  which  we 
operate,  including  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African States, the African countries that use Portuguese 
as an official language, the Gulf of Guinea Commission 
and  the  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes 
Region, with a view to defining mechanisms and forms 
of  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union, 
the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries and other international partners.
Angola  assumed  the  rotating  presidency  of  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
The  Ebola  epidemic  is  an  issue  of  great  concern. 
The  position  of  the  Security  Council,  which  declared 
the epidemic to be a threat to international peace and 
security, fully reflects the seriousness of the situation. 
A decisive commitment on the part of the international 
community is required if the scourge is to be combated 
and eradicated.
We reiterate the need to reform and revitalize the 
United Nations system, in particular the need to reform 
the  Security  Council,  which  should  be  brought  into 
line  with  the  current  international  context  and  whose 
membership  should  reflect  an  equitable  geographical 
representation  through  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
permanent members. Angola reiterates the right of the 
African continent to sit among the permanent members 
of the Council.
The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and  the  lack  of 
progress in finding a lasting solution are a major cause 
of  widespread  instability  in  the  Middle  East,  and 
also  the  root  cause  of  the  resurgence  of  terrorism  in 
the  region.  That  situation  worries  the  Government  of 
Angola. We call for political will and flexibility from 
both parties, and we encourage the Secretary-General 
and  the  United  States  Secretary  of  State  to  continue 
their  mediation  efforts  with  a  view  to  establishing  a 
sovereign and independent Palestinian State, as well as 
a modus vivendi to ensure that the two States coexist 
in peace and security within internationally recognized 
borders.
The impasse in resolving the question of Western 
Sahara  continues  to  delay  the  exercise  of  the  right 
to  self-determination  of  the  people  of  that  territory. 
Angola  calls  on  the  parties  to  continue  negotiations 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union in order to find a solution in accordance 
with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations 
and resolution 1514 (XV) of December 1960.
With regard to the situation in the Ukraine, Angola 
deplores the loss of human lives caused by instability 
14-55181
5/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
in the region and calls for dialogue between the parties 
involved to find a political solution to the conflict.
The  situations 
in  Somalia  and  South  Sudan 
remain  cause  for  concern.  However,  there  has  been 
some  encouraging  progress,  which  is  why  we  urge 
the authorities in those countries and the international 
community  to  continue  their  efforts  for  stabilization. 
Angola  welcomes  the  constitutional  normalization  in 
some  African  countries.  We  welcome  the  holding  of 
democratic  elections  in  Guinea-Bissau,  Madagascar 
and  Egypt,  and  we  express  our  solidarity  with  the 
national  reconciliation  and  reconstruction  processes 
and  the  economic  and  social  development  in  those 
countries.
The  Government  of  Angola  expresses 
its 
appreciation  for  the  choice  of  the  central  theme  of 
this  session,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”.  It  is 
greatly  relevance,  especially  for  the  least  developed 
countries.  The  progress  made  in  some  of  those 
countries  is  far  behind  the  targets  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  due  to  structural  issues,  and  is 
insufficient  to  mitigate  the  persistent  effects  of  the 
economic problems.
With one year remaining until the final assessment 
of  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, our economies continue to suffer the effects of 
the international economic and financial crisis, which 
create  barriers  to  economic  growth  and  hinder  the 
implementation of programmes to combat poverty and 
improve the living conditions of our peoples. However, 
we  note  with  satisfaction  that  the  African  continent 
has ceased to present the image of desolation it did at 
the  beginning  of  the  millennium.  A  new  reality  has 
emerged in which African countries boast an average 
growth  of  5  per  cent  per  year  and  improvements  in 
several human development indicators. We believe that 
the  trend  of  progress  will  prevail  in  the  near  future, 
and we will do everything to make it so by investing in 
future generations on the basis of the objectives of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  the  post-
2015 road map and the African Agenda 2063.
Angola is implementing its National Development 
Plan  2013-2017,  which  aims  to  increase  the  supply  of 
social services to the population, diversify the economy 
and  consolidate  macroeconomic  stability,  thus  laying 
the  foundation  for  the  process  of  graduation  to  a 
middle-income country.
Angola reiterates the need to end the economic and 
financial embargo imposed on Cuba, which limits the 
right of the Cuban people to development and is a clear 
violation of the principles and rules of international law.
Mr.  Mnisi  (Swaziland),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Finally,  we  appreciate  and  have  been  touched  by 
the  support  that  Angola  has  received  from  numerous 
countries  for  its  candidature  to  be  a  non-permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  2015-2016 
biennium,  elections  for  which  will  place  during  the 
Assembly’s  present  session.  Once  elected  to  that 
important  organ,  we  will  work  with  partners  in  the 
Council  to  seek  solutions  to  the  serious  problems 
facing the international community and to make a real 
contribution to peace and security in the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Angola for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Manuel Vicente, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Angola, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso  Dlamini, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Swaziland.
Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso  Dlamini,  Prime  Minister 
of the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso 
Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): It is a great honour for 
me to address the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session  on  behalf  of  His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini.  I  convey 
the congratulations and best wishes of His Majesty the 
King and the people of the Kingdom of eSwatini to the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session, a son of Africa. We commend the Secretary-
General and his staff for the good work they are doing 
in creating an enabling environment for all humankind 
to live in peace despite the multiple challenges facing 
the world.
6/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
As  we  gather  here,  we  are  very  mindful  of  the 
new  challenge  that  confronts  the  global  community 
following  the  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  some  parts  of  the 
African continent. That disease is claiming hundreds of 
lives and diverting focus and resources from essential 
development  initiatives.  It  is  also  a  serious  drawback 
to  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and is a threat to humankind. We urge the United 
Nations and its Members to spare no effort in providing 
all the necessary assistance at its disposal to curb the 
disease and prevent any further loss of life.
My delegation takes this opportunity to thank the 
General Assembly for convening the high-level plenary 
meeting known as the World Conference on Indigenous 
Peoples.  It  was  particularly  opportune,  as  indigenous 
knowledge and practices substantially contribute to the 
sustainable development agenda.
Last  week  the  General  Assembly  held  its  twenty-
ninth  special  session,  on  follow-up  to  the  Programme 
of Action of the International Conference on Population 
and  Development  beyond  2014.  My  delegation  was 
pleased  to  participate  in  that  event.  We  reaffirm  the 
Kingdom’s  commitment  to  the  Programme  of  Action, 
which is as relevant today as it was twenty years ago.
This  year  the  regular  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  was  preceded  by  the  Climate  Summit,  at 
which Heads of State and Government deliberated on 
issues  of  environmental  protection.  Those  issues  are 
critical to the achievement of sustainable development, 
particularly  for  the  developing  countries.  We  are 
pleased that the Summit was able to mobilize sufficient 
political  support  for  guiding  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in Lima in December. 
The issue of climate change is crucial for many of our 
developing  economies,  especially  on  the  continent  of 
Africa. It has a direct effect on our national objective to 
produce enough food for ourselves. The unpredictable 
weather conditions continue to be of great concern to 
our farmers. We shall continue to call upon the United 
Nations to expedite the issue to prevent further adverse 
effects on our lives.
The  theme  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session  is  “Delivering  on  and  implementing 
a  transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”.  It 
resonates well with our call for a development agenda 
that  is  inclusive.  It  is  a  clear  indication  that  we  are 
transcending  the  era  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  entering  a  new  chapter  of  the  development 
agenda.  As  we  set 
the  post-2015 
development agenda, my delegation is heartened to see 
that  we  have  not  forgotten  our  collective  inability  to 
meet all the Millennium Development Goals.
the  stage  for 
I  commend  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for  the 
manner in which they ably guided the proceedings of 
the Group. We welcome the outcome document of the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (A/68/970)  and  the  goals  and  targets  contained 
therein.  The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  is  pleased  that  the 
framework  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda  has 
taken  into  account  those  Millennium  Development 
Goals  that  have  not  yet  been  met,  especially  the 
eradication  of  poverty.  As  we  begin  a  new  era,  let 
us  not  forget  our  previous  commitments,  and  let  us 
continue  to  emphasize  the  urgency  for  the  developed 
partners to honour their official development assistance 
commitments.
Food  security  remains  a  critical  challenge  for  the 
African  continent,  and  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  call 
for  the  provision  of  adequate  financial  resources,  the 
transfer  of  environmentally  sound  technologies  and 
technical assistance to developing countries if we are 
to  achieve  our  development  goals.  We  have  abundant 
resources  on  the  continent.  However,  there  is  a  great 
need  for  value  addition  to  our  products  in  order  to 
maximize our food-production initiatives.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  continues  to  set  aside 
a  sizeable  budget  for  agriculture.  Due  to  the  negative 
effects  of  climate  change,  we  have  a  programme  to 
construct dams for irrigation throughout the Kingdom. 
Assistance to subsistence farmers with farming inputs 
has also been increased with the intention of increasing 
their yields and thus increasing food production in the 
Kingdom.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  fully  supports  the 
African  Union’s  road  map  for  development,  Agenda 
2063,  which  is  critical  to  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We are confident that, with United 
Nations support, that approach will accelerate Africa’s 
regional economic integration agenda and help realize 
it,  facilitate  integration  in  the  world  economy  and 
ultimately improve the continent’s living standards.
Africa is home to the majority of the world’s fastest-
growing  economies,  and  trade  remains  an  integral 
part  of  the  development  agenda.  Focus  is  now  on 
14-55181
7/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
sustaining that growth through boosting intra-African 
trade and establishing the continental free trade area. 
It  is  important,  however,  that  access  to  the  global 
markets remain open to mutually beneficial conditions 
that  promote  the  United  Nations  ideals  of  increased 
international cooperation and trade.
We are encouraged by the renewed commitment for 
the economic development of the African continent as 
resolved in different summits. The continent abounds 
with  investment  opportunities  in  different  sectors, 
such  as  infrastructure,  information,  communication, 
technology  and  energy,  to  name  but  a  few.  That  will, 
no  doubt,  have  a  huge  impact  on  the  sustainable 
development programmes for the continent. It will also 
contribute handsomely to job creation, particularly for 
the youth.
We  should  ensure  that  the  post-2015  agenda  is 
cognizant of the special development needs of developing 
countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa.  We  also  give 
particular  recognition  to  those  developing  countries 
that have special challenges due to their geographical 
position,  such  as  small  island  developing  States  and 
landlocked developing countries. My delegation hopes 
that  the  agenda  will  also  take  into  consideration  the 
special  plight  of  middle-income  countries,  where  the 
majority of the world’s poor reside.
The  Government  of  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  is 
pleased to note that the Republic of China on Taiwan 
continues  to  contribute  to  global  issues,  and  the 
positive  developments  taking  place  in  that  region  are 
encouraging.  We  encourage  their  full  participation  in 
all United Nations structures.
As we meet here, in some parts of the world people 
are  living  in  fear  as  every  day  thousands  of  human 
beings,  especially  vulnerable  groups,  are  losing  their 
lives to terrorists. We encourage the United Nations to 
take a leading role in promoting peace and coexistence 
in  the  world.  We  call  on  all  those  who  are  fighting 
to  find  a  lasting,  peaceful  solution  to  their  problems 
through dialogue and not through the barrel of a gun.
In conclusion, the Kingdom of eSwatini would like 
to  commend  the  United  Nations  and  related  agencies 
for  being  a  key  factor  in  helping  to  overcome  the 
many  complex  challenges  facing  the  world  today.  We 
reiterate  our  call  for  peaceful  solutions  and  dialogue 
in  all  conflict  situations  so  that  the  United  Nations 
may achieve its noble objectives. We take pride in and 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  principles  and  ideals 
contained in the Charter of the United Nations. May the 
Almighty God bless us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Swaziland  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Barnabas Sibusiso Dlamini, Prime Minister of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Domingos Simões Pereira, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau.
Mr.  Domingos  Simões  Pereira,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Domingos  Simões 
Pereira,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea-
Bissau,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Pereira (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
the President of the Republic, Mr. José Mário Vaz, and 
on  my  own  behalf,  and  in  the  name  of  the  State  and 
people of Guinea-Bissau, I would like to congratulate 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  His 
election  by  this  most  representative  institution  of  the 
international system is a tribute not only to his country, 
Uganda, but to the entire African continent. I welcome 
him and wish him success in guiding the work of the 
Assembly.
We  are  grateful  to  the  United  Nations,  and  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  particular,  for 
the  attention  given  to  Guinea-Bissau  and  for  the 
important contribution of the Special Representative of 
the  Secretary-General  in  our  country  to  our  political 
normalization  process.  We  would  also  like  to  say  a 
special  word  of  appreciation  to  the  former  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  President 
Ramos-Horta,  for  his  friendship  with  Guinea-Bissau 
and his dedication to his mission.
8/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
We  express  our  appreciation  to  and  thank  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  its  Government 
and  people.  When  they  saw  the  need  of  their  sister 
nation  of  Guinea-Bissau,  they  extended  the  hand  of 
friendship  and  provided  valuable  and  extraordinary 
support  to  our  country  in  dealing  with  our  crisis,  for 
which the entire nation of Guinea-Bissau is grateful.
The  subregion  contributed 
financial  support 
in  helping  our  Government  to  function,  which  has 
been  key  in  enabling  us  to  reach  the  point  where  we 
find  ourselves  today.  We  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  and  acknowledgement  to  the  forces  of 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
Mission  (ECOWAS)  in  Guinea-Bissau,  who  carried 
out  their  mission  with  professionalism  and  ensured  a 
peaceful and orderly transition. Similarly, we commend 
the  efforts  of  all  our  national  political  actors  and 
international partners to reach the consensus required 
to maintain an international stabilization force after the 
end of the Mission’s mandate.
We  would  like  to  acknowledge  and  thank  all  the 
member  countries  of  ECOWAS  for  their  support,  in 
particular  my  friend  and  brother  President  Goodluck 
Jonathan  of  Nigeria,  who  chaired  the  Contact  Group 
on Guinea-Bissau and provided additional and valuable 
support to our country. I pray for peace and tranquillity 
for his country and for the welfare of his people. We are 
also deeply grateful to President Alpha Condé of Guinea, 
who mediated the crisis in Guinea-Bissau. Finally, we 
would  like  to  express  our  profound  acknowledgement 
and  gratitude  to  all  our  international  partners  —  the 
United  Nations,  the  African  Union,  ECOWAS,  the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and its 
member States, the European Union, the West African 
Economic  and  Monetary  Union  and  the  International 
Organization  of  la  Francophonie,  whose  support  was 
important  in  monitoring  and  managing  the  political 
transition process, as well as in holding free, transparent 
and fair general elections in our country.
I  would  also  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly 
that  Guinea-Bissau’s  society  has  renewed  its  hope  in 
a  new  political  cycle  and  to  assure  it  that  we  possess 
the  political  will  and  deep  commitment  needed  to 
consolidate political stability, revitalize and strengthen 
the State’s capacity and create the basic conditions that 
will enable our people to realize their dreams.
Guinea-Bissau is a post-conflict State with fragile 
institutions  and  scarce  financial  resources,  suffering 
from the severe political, economic, environmental and 
social consequences of our crisis. We therefore face a 
complex and difficult situation, in which we call on the 
international  community  for  assistance,  that  will  be 
essential if we are to stabilize our country in this post-
election period and achieve our goals of strengthening 
the State’s institutional capacity, reducing our people’s 
poverty  and  vulnerabilities,  ensuring  social  stability, 
legitimizing  the  Government,  and  relaunching  our 
economy.  That  approach  to  international  assistance, 
at  the  centre  of  our  dialogue  with  our  international 
partners, is based on the Government’s agenda, which 
includes  three  key  programmes:  Urgent,  Contingency 
and Medium-Term Development.
Under  the  Urgent  Programme,  we  must  ensure 
food  safety  and  social  stability  through  support  for 
agricultural production and distribution, improve access 
to food and income for some sectors of the population, 
provide the population with basic health, education and 
water and power supply services, and pay civil servants’ 
overdue salaries. It also includes an emergency health 
action plan for preventing and responding to the threat 
of  an  Ebola  epidemic.  The  Contingency  Programme’s 
objective  is  essentially  to  ensure  the  transparency 
and  accountability  of  all  natural-resource  concession 
and  exploitation  agreements  and  to  end  the  nefarious 
procedures  that  allowed  our  country’s  forestry  and 
fishery  resources  to  be  plundered  over  the  past  two 
years.  The  Medium-Term  Development  Programme 
will  be  presented  to  our  international  partners  at  a 
donor conference to be held at the end of this year or 
early next, and for which we are requesting the essential 
support of the United Nations and all our multilateral 
and bilateral partners.
As  we  embark  on  the  challenge  of  rebuilding 
Guinea-Bissau  anew,  we  are  fully  conscious  of  the 
problems but filled with a patriotic spirit of collective 
drive  and  unity  joining  all  Bissau-Guineans  and,  in 
particular, all political actors and sovereign institutions, 
with  full  confidence  in  an  inclusive  Government  that 
incorporates  all  political  parties  represented  in  our 
Parliament,  as  well  as  civil  society  and  the  diaspora. 
This  confidence  was  significantly  enhanced  by  our 
national Parliament’s recent unanimous approval of the 
Government’s  programme,  which  is  unprecedented  in 
the history of our democracy.
While it is true that the ongoing process of political 
stabilization  and  normalization  of  the  democratic 
institutions  in  Guinea-Bissau  depends  on  a  major 
14-55181
9/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
national  effort,  it  will  also  require  unequivocal  and 
urgent  support  from  our  regional  and  international 
partners. We must structure and coordinate our actions 
based  on  the  goals  established  in  the  Government’s 
programme  in  order  to  lay  the  foundations  for  our 
country to change course and become viable.
In  this  context,  three  situations  demonstrate  how 
imperative it is for us to combine our efforts. The first 
is  the  ongoing  process  of  defence  and  security  sector 
reform, including extensive steps taken in recent days 
towards  its  reorganization.  We  need  international 
support  in  order  to  make  those  steps  sustainable  and 
irreversible. The second is the extension of the State’s 
presence throughout the national territory in an effective 
and  organized  manner  through  decentralization  and 
local elections. The Government will lay the foundations 
for the municipal administrations to become operational 
and will adopt the national territory organization policy. 
The third is the extremely complex task of combating 
drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime.  Our  country’s 
efforts will be successful only through a collective and 
objective approach.
Guinea-Bissau  needs  a  robust  and 
impactful 
intervention  from  our  development  partners  in  order 
not  only  to  consolidate  the  success  of  our  political 
transition but also to lay the foundations for a transition 
to  development.  We  request  the  reactivation  of  the 
International  Contact  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau  under 
the auspices of the United Nations, for the purpose of 
monitoring  the  domestic  situation  in  our  country  and 
supporting the mobilization of international aid, which 
is key for us to face the challenges in our future.
The  new  authorities 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  our 
Parliament,  the  President  of  the  Republic  and  our 
Government chose an inclusive dialogue and political 
coordination  as  the  preferred  tools  in  our  efforts 
to  consolidate  political  stability  and  create  broad 
consensus  around  the  main  thrusts  of  governance. 
Therefore, in addition to strengthening the democratic 
legitimacy  of  our  political  institutions,  we  wish  to 
take  clear,  unequivocal  and  decisive  steps  to  build 
broad consensus on the main issues facing our society. 
They  would  be  anchored  in  a  political  protocol  that 
establishes the main areas of legislative and executive 
action, including issues related to reforming the State, 
revising the Constitution and rebuilding the economy. 
A  sign  of  this  power-sharing  vision  for  the  resolution 
of our main problems is the inclusion of the opposition 
leader in our delegation to the United Nations, in order 
to show the world that Guinea-Bissau has embarked on 
a path of harmony and stability.
Our  subregion,  West  Africa,  is  facing  an  Ebola 
epidemic,  which  directly  threatens  several  members 
of  ECOWAS,  to  which  we  belong.  Allow  me  to  offer 
Guinea-Bissau’s solidarity to our sister nations where 
cases  of  contamination  have  been  identified.  I  would 
like to note our appreciation for the international efforts 
in  providing  urgent  medical  assistance  and  to  call  on 
the international community to step up its commitment 
and support in combating and preventing this epidemic. 
We  also  appeal  for  the  establishment  of  an  effective 
international coalition to confront this grave threat to 
international  security,  which  was  recently  recognized 
as such by the Security Council.
I reaffirm my country’s position on reforming the 
Security  Council.  The  enlargement  of  this  important 
United Nations body is required in order to enhance the 
legitimacy of its representation and to reflect the new 
international order under discussion. Therefore, and in 
accordance with the African Union’s position, Guinea-
Bissau calls for the designation of two permanent seats 
with the right of veto and five non-permanent seats in 
the Security Council for the African continent. We also 
voice our support for the designation of permanent seats 
on the Security Council for Brazil, Japan, Germany and 
India.
I  would  like  to  assure  the  peoples  and  countries 
that have fallen victim to international terrorism of our 
solidarity and to renew our Government’s commitment 
to  combating  this  scourge  within  a  framework  of 
coordinated  actions  undertaken 
jointly  with  our 
regional  and  international  partners,  according  to  the 
specific nature of the actions.
We  note  with  concern  that  the  economic  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  against  Cuba  more  than 
50  years  ago  constitutes  a  serious  obstacle  to  that 
country’s  economic  and  social  development,  and  we 
reiterate our call for it to be lifted.
We  commend  and  encourage  the  United  Nations, 
and  in  particular  the  Secretary-General,  for  their 
renewed efforts, vision and wisdom with regard to the 
issue  of  climate  change  and  its  effects  on  life  on  our 
planet. The Climate Summit held here on 23 September 
was an eloquent testament to this fact. The main areas 
that may allow for viable and sustainable development 
emerged  and  seem  likely  to  gather  the  required 
consensus for the establishment of a post-Kyoto global 
10/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
climate regime designed to promote the well-being of 
all.
Sustainable  development  goals,  the  new  post-
2015 global development paradigm, must be rooted in 
the  peoples’  cultures  and  objective  realities  and  must 
undoubtedly draw their inspiration from the lessons of 
the Millennium Development Goals.
It should be noted that climate change is no longer 
simply a future threat; it has now become an unequivocal 
threat  to  the  present.  The  rising  incidence  of  climate 
change that exposes our vulnerabilities is now felt and 
has increasingly unpredictable consequences. Human, 
economic  and  environmental  losses  in  a  vulnerable 
country  such  as  Guinea-Bissau  are  increasing  and 
threaten our survival and development prospects.
Sea-level rise may irreversibly affect coastal areas, 
including entire islands, villages, cities and other seaside 
settlements.  This  situation  is  particularly  worrisome 
for our country, which, with its combination of coasts 
and  archipelagos,  is  highly  vulnerable  to  the  impacts 
of  climate  events  and  may  see  its  efforts  to  combat 
poverty and achieve development goals compromised.
Despite  all  the  difficulties  that  have  challenged 
Guinea-Bissau’s  efforts  to  fulfil  our  international 
commitments  holistically,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that 
12 per cent of our national territory consists of protected 
areas,  which  should  double  by  2020.  Unfortunately, 
most  of  the  population  in  developing  countries  with 
forests, such as Guinea-Bissau, continues to depend on 
these natural resources as their only means of survival. 
Therefore, in order to offset the possible loss of those 
resources, technological and financial alternatives must 
be made available to this population.
I  conclude  my  statement  by  thanking  the  United 
Nations  and  expressing  our  deep  appreciation  for  the 
significant role that the Peacebuilding Commission has 
played in supporting the consolidation of political and 
governance stability in Guinea-Bissau. I also recognize 
the United Nations bodies, including the United Nations 
Development  Programme,  UNICEF,  the  World  Food 
Programme,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund and the World Health Organization, as well as the 
grass-roots groups and non-governmental organizations 
working  on  a  day-to-day  basis  with  our  Government 
in  combating  poverty  and  the  vulnerabilities  of  our 
population and advocating respect for human dignity.
The  people  of  Guinea-Bissau  look  forward  to  the 
active  engagement  of  those  bodies  in  assisting  in  the 
new  phase  of  our  accelerated  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Guinea-Bissau  is 
poised to transform its territory into an area of peace, 
security,  and  openness  for  all  of  those  who,  together 
with our people, wish to build a more brotherly, secure, 
welcoming  and  progress-oriented  society  with  all 
peoples and cultures.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Domingos Simões Pereira, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joe Natuman, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Vanuatu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Vanuatu.
Mr. Joe Natuman, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Vanuatu, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joe  Natuman,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Natuman (Vanuatu): Vanuatu is honoured to 
join other speakers in congratulating Mr. Sam Kutesa 
on assuming the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-ninth session. I believe that his able leadership 
will  successfully  guide  the  session  to  its  conclusion. 
Let  me  also  extend  my  gratitude  to  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  for  his  exemplary  leadership 
and  the  important  achievements  during  his  tenure  in 
the past year.
Since  the  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
many major global events have taken place which, on 
the  one  hand,  have  contributed  to  strengthening  the 
international system and, on the other, have threatened 
international peace and security and directly derailed the 
process of development, resulting in the marginalization 
of  the  vulnerable  populations  of  our  societies.  Given 
past  efforts  to  address  the  global  financial  crisis,  we 
have witnessed some recovery of the global economy. 
That is good news; but it is well known that the recovery 
14-55181
11/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
is fragile and further international efforts are needed to 
ensure that global growth prospects in the long run will 
remain solid and sustainable.
We  are  concerned  about  prolonged  periods  of 
conflict that have led to the displacement of the most 
disadvantaged  members  of  our  societies,  including 
women, children and the disabled. It bothers us to see 
the increased radicalization of groups and individuals 
that  have  been  targeted  to  create  terror  and  impose 
threats  against  countries,  Governments  and  citizens. 
Those  are  all  problems  that  could  be  avoided,  if  all 
countries adhered strictly to the peaceful principles of 
dialogue enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
As members of the international community, we have a 
moral duty to ensure that the principles of dialogue and 
reasoning  prevail  in  order  to  address  conflict.  I  have 
no doubt that the multilateral system is best placed to 
address the challenges.
The  outbreak  of  the  deadly  Ebola  virus  that 
has  claimed  over  2,000  lives  in  West  Africa  has 
also  concerned  us  greatly.  In  this  regard,  we  highly 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  agencies, 
in  particular  the  World  Health  Organization,  and  the 
international  community  in  addressing  the  security 
risks  of  the  epidemic.  Likewise,  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General and his determination in addressing 
the  challenges  are  most  commendable.  I  would  like 
to reiterate my Government’s support for the ongoing 
efforts.
Concerning the political developments in the Pacific 
region, I wish to congratulate the people of the Republic 
of  Fiji  on  successfully  and  peacefully  electing  a  new 
democratic  Government.  My  Government  commends 
the people of Fiji for their resilience and steadfastness, 
and I congratulate the newly elected Prime Minister on 
fulfilling his promise to the international community to 
successfully lead his country to a democratic election.
Vanuatu,  a  small  island  developing  State,  has  a 
small economy which is open and vulnerable to internal 
and  external  shocks.  Those  characteristics  have 
determined and shaped our development outcomes. For 
decades now, our economy has been growing and is now 
generating increasing per capita incomes. Vanuatu was 
one of the countries that called on the United Nations to 
allow vulnerability to become one of the three criteria 
used  in  assessing  or  identifying  graduation  cases. 
Vanuatu’s  vulnerability  was  recognized  as  a  result  of 
the revised criteria, and our country ceased to qualify 
for graduation. It was not until the end of the twentieth 
century  that  Vanuatu’s  eligibility  for  graduation  from 
least developed country (LDC) status was raised again, 
after a decade of unquestionable economic progress in 
our island nation.
After  the  Committee  for  Development  Policy 
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  reviewed  our 
progress in 2012, the General Assembly, in December 
2013,  decided  that  Vanuatu  would  graduate  (see 
A/68/PV.59). At the same time, a grace period of four 
years  was  granted  to  enable  a  smooth  transition  to 
post-LDC life. Vanuatu’s graduation from LDC status 
is  now  scheduled  to  take  place  in  December  2017. 
My  Government  accepts  that  as  a  positive  signpost. 
However,  the  issue  of  vulnerability  must  be  carefully 
addressed by the United Nations.
to  negotiating 
lose,  with  a  view 
We  are  examining  the  LDC  benefits  we  may 
eventually 
the 
possibility  of  retaining  certain  concessions  we  deem 
important  —  if  not  vital  —  in  sustaining  economic 
development. Our impression of the graduation process 
is that our attention is being drawn to the question of 
smooth transition, while the real issue — the question 
of  vulnerability,  even  during  the  post-graduation 
stage — is being circumvented. Our situation could best 
be described using the analogy of an aircraft. Vanuatu is 
in the descent phase, but the focus should not be on the 
smooth landing; rather, we must look to what happens 
after the smooth landing, as that is the real issue. Our 
vulnerabilities as a small island developing State (SIDS) 
remain  undiminished,  with  lasting  disadvantages  and 
growing challenges regardless of our graduation from 
LDC status.
What is it, then, that the United Nations, which has 
been  so  generous  in  recognizing  our  vulnerabilities, 
can now offer us, as a SIDS, in support of our efforts 
to  build  resilience  and  productive  capacity,  and  in 
support of our climate adaptation expenditure? Surely 
SIDS dealing with such issues deserve as much special 
attention  as  do  LDCs.  Is  it  unreasonable  to  expect 
that  attention  be  translated  into  some  form  of  special 
treatment  for  SIDS?  We  appreciate  the  focus  of  the 
United Nations on the importance of a smooth transition 
for graduating countries, but we also urge it not to be 
distracted from the real question, which is the way we 
SIDS will be treated after graduation.
Like other, similar economies, while Vanuatu has 
made some headway towards meeting the Millennium 
12/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
Development Goals (MDGs), it is still finding it difficult 
to achieve all of the goals by 2015. The reasons for that 
are numerous, but one of the significant difficulties is 
our narrow revenue base, coupled with a geographically 
dispersed  population  scattered  over  our  83  islands, 
which makes it a challenge for the Government to deliver 
basic services to all of its people. We are grateful that 
our  development  partners  are  always  there  to  support 
us.  Given  the  challenges  that  SIDS  and  LDCs  face 
in  financing  development,  I  appeal  to  the  developed 
countries  to  honour  their  commitment  to  increasing 
their  aid  to  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product,  as 
agreed on in the Monterrey Consensus.
The  current  problem  of  terrorism  threatens  the 
security  of  States  and  the  safety  and  well-being  of 
innocent  and  vulnerable  women  and  children.  The 
kidnapping  of  innocent  people,  including  some  of 
our peacekeepers, is a threat to international security 
and peace. As a participant in various United Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude to the United Nations and other countries for 
their assistance in negotiating the release of Fiji’s United 
Nations peacekeepers. The cooperation in this respect 
of members of the international community is a positive 
sign for the concept of our collective responsibility for 
international peace and security.
We salute the Secretary-General for his leadership 
as  a  vigorous  campaigner  for  climate  action  and  for 
convening this year’s Climate Summit. Leaders made 
many  pledges  and  commitments  during  the  Summit, 
and  we  look  forward  to  seeing  the  rhetoric  translated 
into  urgent  action.  My  delegation  calls  on  the  United 
Nations  family  to  stand  together  to  find  ways  to 
address  climate-change  issues.  We  are  staring  at  a 
climate-change bubble, and the longer we delay action, 
the  costlier  it  will  be  for  our  future  generations.  We 
must act now and fast to ensure that we steer clear of 
the current dangerous carbon-pollution trajectory.
The  theme  for  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing 
a  transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”,  is 
timely and relevant, particularly considering the ongoing 
efforts to arrive at a new post-2015 development agenda 
for all countries. I commend the excellent progress that 
has  been  made  in  this  area,  and  I  recognize  that  it  is 
not easy to negotiate such goals, with so many member 
countries and the different groups they represent, all of 
which want their development agendas incorporated. I 
believe that our draft agenda does represent a consensus 
on the part of every United Nations Member and that it 
is capable of bringing development to a new level in all 
of our countries.
As  a  Pacific  small  island  developing  State,  we 
are  dealing  with  numerous  development  challenges 
that  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  international 
community  should  address.  I  reiterate  that  climate 
change is a major global challenge for all of us. Some 
Pacific States are facing an existential threat, and we 
cannot deal with the issue of sustainable development 
alone  if  climate-change  challenges  are  not  addressed 
seriously by the international community. To that end, 
it is vital that climate change remain one of the major 
elements  on  the  agenda  of  sustainable  development 
goals (SDGs).
We note that this is a matter for considerable debate, 
owing to its cross-cutting nature. However, it is not a 
new issue, for the climate-change agenda is prominently 
featured  in  “The  future  we  want”  outcome  document 
of the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex).  Our  current 
efforts  to  address  climate  change  are  consistent  with 
that, and it is another reason why our climate-change 
targets  should  be  more  ambitious.  We  strongly  urge 
that the target of holding the increase in global average 
temperature below 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels be 
included in the SDGs.
In addition to climate change, our support for the 
SDGs  extends  but  is  not  limited  to  the  inclusion  of 
peace  and  effective  institutions;  ocean  management; 
health  and  education;  energy  security  and  gender 
equality.  We  also  concur  with  the  emphasis  on  the 
means  of  implementation  in  the  report  of  the  Open 
Working Group of the General Assembly on Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (A/68/970)  and  urge  the  United 
Nations  and  the  developed  countries  to  continue  to 
support  developing  countries,  especially  the  SIDS 
and  LDCs,  in  the  areas  of  sustainable  development 
financing and improving institutional capacity in their 
efforts to promote development.
Coincidentally,  my  country  is  at  an  important 
stage in its development planning process. Our current 
development  planning  framework  will  come  to  an 
end in the fourth quarter of 2015, and we are already 
consulting for the post-2015 era. The agenda and issues 
being discussed in the global arena will be translated 
into  and  merged  with  our  development  aspirations. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  our 
14-55181
13/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
development  partners  to  support  us  by  working  in 
harmony and in a true spirit of partnership to help us to 
fulfil the dreams of our people, particularly our young 
and more vulnerable generation.
My Government acknowledges the synergy of the 
efforts being made by the United Nations and the British 
Commonwealth  to  uphold  the  international  principles 
of peace and good governance, as well as in promoting 
stronger  partnerships  for  inclusive  development.  I 
would like to ask the United Nations to allow the views 
expressed by the Commonwealth Heads of Government 
on the post-development agenda to be seen as additional 
contributions to that process.
My  country  has  a  history  that  evolved  as  the 
result  of  a  long  political  struggle  to  achieve  political 
independence,  which  finally  came  in  1980.  But  when 
most  of  us  were  young,  it  was  governed  by  Britain 
and France, and we were stateless in our own country, 
neither French nor British citizens. For more than seven 
decades, we were exposed to foreign rule. We thus had 
to struggle to reconstruct our identity as a nation that 
could govern itself rather than be subjected to foreign 
rule. In 1981, after independence was achieved in 1980, 
I finally arrived here at the United Nations with our late 
former Prime Minister, Walter Lini. I clearly remember 
that cold autumn morning, when a small group, along 
with the United Nations protocol staff, gathered outside 
the  entrance  of  this  magnificent  building  to  raise  our 
flag  for  the  first  time  at  the  United  Nations.  A  new 
nation was born and was accepted by the United Nations 
family of nations.
As a freedom fighter and as the Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Vanuatu who took office less than six 
months  ago,  I  proudly  stand  here  today  to  thank  the 
United Nations for the recognition and endorsement of 
our  membership.  But  more  importantly,  here  on  this 
rostrum I want to underscore the unfinished business 
of the United Nations with regard to bringing closure 
to  its  work  on  decolonization.  Part  of  my  country’s 
sovereign territory is still being disputed by one of our 
former colonial Powers, which is also our dear friend 
and development partner.
I am delighted that the United Nations once again, 
through the work of the former United Nations Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples, 
Mr.  James  Anaya,  brought  the  matter  to  the  twenty-
first session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. 
My country is delighted that in 2012 France responded 
to that action and expressed its openness to dialogue. 
We  believe  such  openness  is  a  necessary  element  for 
progress so that our indigenous peoples will be able to 
resume their rights to fully exercise their cultural and 
spiritual obligations on the two islands of Umaenupne/
Matthew and Leka/Hunter, and to revive the traditional 
routes of our ancestors in Tafea province.
My country’s political struggles have led to a strong 
position  on  decolonization.  We  share  the  dreams  of 
those who are still longing for freedom so that they can 
achieve self-government and independence. As we near 
the midpoint of the United Nations Third International 
Decade  for  the  Eradication  of  Colonialism,  I  want  to 
echo those voices, from within our region and beyond, 
who should one day be able to stand on this podium as 
free and democratic nations.
reminding 
My  country  acknowledges 
the  message  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
the 
2014  Pacific  regional  seminar  of  the  United  Nations 
Decolonization  Committee  held  in  May  this  year 
that  “good  intentions  will  have  to  be  translated  into 
credible action to make the Third International Decade 
a  success”.  In  that  connection,  my  country  supports 
the conclusions and recommendations contained in the 
report  of  the  United  Nations  visiting  mission  to  New 
Caledonia this year (A/AC.109/2014/20/Rev.1) and calls 
on the United Nations and the international community 
to pursue their efforts to provide support to the people of 
New Caledonia and the Government of France in their 
endeavour  to  implement  a  successful  decolonization 
process under the Nouméa Accord.
At  the  nineteenth  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group 
Leaders  Summit  in  June  2013  in  New  Caledonia,  the 
Group’s  leaders  renewed  their  commitment  through 
a  declaration  to  support  the  Front  de  libération 
nationale  kanak  socialiste  (FLNKS)  in  their  pursuit 
for  full  emancipation  under  the  Nouméa  Accord, 
through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  and 
training  programmes  for  the  Kanak  peoples  to  assist 
them  in  their  struggle  to  fully  exercise  their  right  to 
self-determination  and  independence.  While  the  New 
Caledonian people look forward to a political transition, 
I  call  upon  the  United  Nations,  through  its  regional 
agencies,  to  provide  assistance  to  New  Caledonia,  in 
particular the FLNKS and the Kanak people, in specific 
areas of training to enable them to fully participate in 
the implementation of the Nouméa Accord. I appreciate 
the cooperative efforts of the Government of France for 
facilitating the implementation of the Nouméa Accord 
14/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
in a very mature and responsible manner. Those efforts 
must not be derailed.
I  cannot  close  this  section  of  my  speech  without 
paying  tribute  to  the  late  Mr.  John  Ondawame,  a 
freedom  fighter  from  West  Papua,  who  passed  away 
last  month  while  in  exile  in  my  country.  He  was  laid 
to  rest  in  my  country  as  a  hero  who  had  fought  for 
the rights to self-determination for the people of West 
Papua.  He  and  other  martyrs  had  a  dream  that  one 
day the United Nations and all nations advocating and 
promoting democratic principles would hear their cries 
and deliver on the promise of a self-determined future. 
At  his  funeral  service,  I  stated  that  his  struggle  for 
freedom and justice would continue to be our struggle 
until colonialism is eradicated.
There  are  many  other  heroes  in  many  countries 
that  are  still  voiceless  and  are  suffering  in  silence, 
either  owing  to  unilateral  policy  choices,  or  because 
of  ignorance  on  the  part  of  the  multilateral  system. 
My  country  is  encouraged  by  the  onset  of  flexibility 
exercised by the United States of America towards the 
Cuban people. I believe that the willingness for dialogue 
and  consideration  is  a  responsible  gesture  that  will 
slowly open the door for a better future for all Cubans. 
We must, as individual countries, be ready to be a voice 
for the voiceless. Bigger and richer countries must be 
the burden-bearers for smaller nations. In doing so, we 
demonstrate our willingness to live as a village, a world 
community  of  friends  and  not  aggressors.  I  want  to 
stress that the only way to address that issue is through 
dialogue and unity. It is our moral responsibility not to 
fail those who have been victims of past ignorance.
My country and many others have repeatedly raised 
these  concerns  on  this  same  podium  for  many  years, 
because  we  subscribe  to  them  as  inalienable  human 
rights.  The  concerns  of  vulnerability,  sustainable 
development,  fisheries,  job  creation,  human  rights 
and  many  others  are  reflected  in  the  Small  Island 
Developing  States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(Samoa  Pathway)  outcome  document  (A/CONF.223/3, 
annex). My country fully endorses the Samoa Pathway 
document  as  a  guide  that  is  to  be  used  to  navigate 
through our development challenges.
The  Samoa  Pathway,  built  on 
the  Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy 
for  Implementation,  has  charted  a  decisive  course 
going  forward.  The  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international community are urged to ensure that it is 
integrated into a transformative post-2015 development 
framework and that we close the implementation gaps 
of the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius 
Strategy.
take 
to 
thank 
Let  me 
this  opportunity 
the 
Government and the people of Samoa for ably hosting 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States held in Apia.
I deeply appreciate the opportunity to present my 
views to this important forum. I hope that the statements 
and the deliberations that we make today will translate 
into concrete actions leading to a better future for all 
our peoples. Long live our aspirations to create lasting 
peace and a better world for our people! May God bless 
the United Nations!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Vanuatu for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Joe Natuman, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Vanuatu, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State of the Holy 
See.
Cardinal  Parolin  (Holy  See):  In  extending  the 
Holy  See’s  congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at its sixty-ninth session, I wish to convey the cordial 
greetings of His Holiness Pope Francis to him and to all 
participating delegations. He assures the President of his 
closeness and prayers for the Assembly’s work during 
this session with the hope that it will be carried out in 
an atmosphere of productive collaboration, working for 
a more fraternal and united world by identifying ways 
to  resolve  the  serious  problems  that  beset  the  whole 
human family today.
reiterated 
In  continuity  with  his  predecessors,  Pope  Francis 
recently 
the  Holy  See’s  esteem  and 
appreciation for the United Nations as an indispensable 
means of building an authentic family of peoples. The 
Holy See values the efforts of this institution to ensure 
world peace, respect for human dignity, the protection 
of persons, especially the poorest and most vulnerable, 
and harmonious economic and social development.
Although mindful of the human person’s gifts and 
abilities, Pope Francis observes that today there is the 
danger  of  widespread  indifference.  To  the  extent  that 
14-55181
15/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
indifference concerns the field of politics, it also affects 
economic  and  social  sectors,  since  an  important  part 
of humanity does not share in the benefits of progress 
and  is  in  fact  relegated  to  the  status  of  second-class 
citizens.  At  times,  such  apathy  is  synonymous  with 
irresponsibility.
I  also  recall  the  words  of  His  Holiness  to  the 
Secretary-General at the beginning of August: “It is with 
a heavy and anguished heart that I have been following 
the dramatic events in northern Iraq”. He was thinking 
of  the  tears,  the  suffering  and  the  heartfelt  cries  of 
despair of Christians and other religious minorities of 
that beloved land. In that same letter the Pope renewed 
his  urgent  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
take action to end the humanitarian tragedy now under 
way.  He  further  encouraged  all  the  competent  organs 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  those  responsible 
for security, peace, humanitarian law and assistance to 
refugees,  to  continue  their  efforts  in  accordance  with 
the Preamble and relevant Articles of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
Today, I am compelled to repeat the heartfelt appeal 
of His Holiness and to propose to the General Assembly 
and to the other competent organs of the United Nations 
that  they  deepen  their  understanding  of  the  difficult 
and complex time in which we are now living.
With  the  dramatic  situation  in  northern  Iraq 
and  some  parts  of  Syria,  we  are  seeing  a  totally  new 
phenomenon — the existence of a terrorist organization 
that  threatens  all  States,  vowing  to  dissolve  them 
and  to  replace  them  with  a  pseudo-religious  world 
government. Unfortunately, as the Holy Father recently 
said, even today there are those who would presume to 
wield power by coercing consciences and taking lives, 
persecuting and murdering in the name of God. Those 
actions bring injury to entire ethnic groups, populations 
and  ancient  cultures.  It  must  be  remembered  that 
such violence is borne out of a disregard for God and 
falsifies  religion  itself,  since  religion  aims  instead  at 
reconciling men and women with God, at illuminating 
and purifying consciences and at making it clear that 
each human being is the image of the Creator.
In  a  world  of  global  communications,  that  new 
phenomenon  has  found  followers  in  numerous  places 
and  has  succeeded  in  attracting  from  around  the 
world  young  people  who  are  often  disillusioned  by 
widespread  indifference  and  a  dearth  of  values  in 
wealthier  societies.  That  challenge,  in  all  its  tragic 
aspects,  should  compel  the  international  community 
to promote a unified response, based on solid juridical 
criteria and a collective willingness to cooperate for the 
common good.
To that end, the Holy See considers it useful to focus 
attention  on  two  major  areas.  The  first  is  to  address 
the  cultural  and  political  origins  of  contemporary 
challenges,  acknowledging  the  need  for  innovative 
strategies  to  confront  those  international  problems  in 
which  cultural  factors  play  a  fundamental  role.  The 
second  area  for  consideration  is  further  study  of  the 
effectiveness  of  international  law  today,  namely,  its 
successful  implementation  by  those  mechanisms used 
by the United Nations to prevent war, stop aggressors, 
protect populations and help victims.
Following the attacks of 9/11, when the world woke 
up to the reality of a new form of terrorism, some media 
and  think  tanks  oversimplified  the  tragic  moment  by 
interpreting all subsequent and problematic situations 
in terms of a clash of civilizations. That view ignored 
long-standing  and  profound  experiences  of  good 
relations between cultures, ethnic groups and religions 
and  interpreted  other  complex  situations  through  that 
lens,  situations  such  as  the  Middle  East  question  and 
civil conflicts occurring elsewhere.
What, then, are the paths open to us?
First and foremost, there is the path of promoting 
dialogue  and  understanding  among  cultures,  which  is 
implicit in the Preamble and Article 1 of the Charter of 
the United Nations. That path must become an ever more 
explicit objective of the international community and of 
Governments if we are truly committed to peace in the 
world.  The  natural  growth  and  enrichment  of  culture 
is the fruit of all components of civil society working 
together.  International  organizations  and  States  have 
the  task  of  promoting  and  supporting,  in  a  decisive 
way  and  with  the  necessary  financial  means,  those 
initiatives  and  movements  that  promote  dialogue  and 
understanding  among  cultures,  religions  and  peoples. 
Peace, after all, is not the fruit of a balance of powers, 
but rather the result of justice at every level and, most 
importantly, is the shared responsibility of individuals, 
civil institutions and Governments.
And yet, we do not face the challenges of terrorism 
and  violence  with  cultural  openness  alone.  The 
important  path  of  international  law  is  also  available 
to  us.  The  situation  today  requires  a  more  incisive 
understanding  of  international  law,  with  particular 
16/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
attention  to  the  responsibility  to  protect.  One  of  the 
characteristics  of  the  recent  terrorist  phenomenon  is 
that it disregards the existence of the State and, in fact, 
the entire international order. Terrorism aims not only 
to bring change to Governments, to damage economic 
structures  or  simply  to  commit  common  crimes,  it 
seeks also to directly control areas within one or more 
States and to impose its own laws, which are distinct 
and  opposed  to  those  of  the  sovereign  State.  It  also 
undermines  and  rejects  all  existing  juridical  systems, 
in an attempt to impose dominion over consciences and 
complete control over persons.
Given 
the  new  forms  of 
The  global  nature  of  this  phenomenon,  which 
knows  no  borders,  is  precisely  why  the  framework  of 
international law offers the only viable way of dealing 
with  this  urgent  challenge.  This  reality  requires  a 
renewed United Nations that undertakes to foster and 
preserve peace.
that 
terrorism  are 
transnational, they no longer fall under the competence 
of the security forces of any one State. The territories 
of several States are involved. Therefore, the combined 
forces  of  a  number  of  nations  will  be  required  to 
guarantee  the  defence  of  unarmed  citizens.  Since 
there is no juridical norm justifying unilateral policing 
actions beyond one’s own borders, there is no doubt that 
that area of competence lies with the Security Council.
My delegation wishes to recall that it is both licit and 
urgent  to  stop  aggression  through  multilateral  action 
and a proportionate use of force. As the representative 
body of a worldwide religious community that embraces 
different nations, cultures and ethnicities, the Holy See 
earnestly hopes that the international community will 
assume responsibility in considering the best means to 
stop all aggression and prevent the perpetration of new 
and even graver injustices.
It is paramount that there be a unity of action for 
the  common  good,  while  avoiding  the  crossfire  of 
vetoes. As His Holiness wrote to the Secretary-General 
on 9 August,
“the  most  basic  understanding  of  human  dignity 
compels the international community, particularly 
through the norms and mechanisms of international 
law,  to  do  all  that  it  can  to  stop  and  to  prevent 
further  systematic  violence  against  ethnic  and 
religious minorities”.
While the concept of the responsibility to protect is 
implicit in the constitutional principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations and of humanitarian law, it does not 
specifically favour a recourse to arms; it asserts, rather, 
the responsibility of the entire international community, 
in a spirit of solidarity, to confront heinous crimes such 
as genocide, ethnic cleansing and religiously motivated 
persecution. Today, I cannot fail to mention the many 
Christians and ethnic minorities who in recent months 
have  endured  atrocious  persecution  and  suffering  in 
Iraq and Syria.
In  its  resolution  68/6,  the  General  Assembly 
decided that it would at the present session discuss the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  which  would  then  be 
formally adopted at its seventieth session, in September 
2015. The President aptly chose the main theme of the 
present session to be “Delivering on and implementing 
a  transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”.  In 
a  communication  to  the  recent  meeting  of  the  Chief 
Executives of the agencies, funds and programmes of 
the United Nations, His Holiness requested that future 
objectives for sustainable development be formulated
“with generosity and courage, so that they can have 
a real impact on the structural causes of poverty and 
hunger, attain more substantial results in protecting 
the  environment,  ensure  dignified  and  productive 
labour  for  all  and  provide  appropriate  protection 
for  the  family,  which  is  an  essential  element 
in  sustainable  human  and  social  development. 
Specifically, this involves challenging all forms of 
injustice  and  resisting  the  economy  of  exclusion, 
the throwaway culture and the culture of death”.
In 
that  regard, 
the  Holy  See  welcomes 
the 
17  sustainable  development  goals  proposed  by  the 
Open  Working  Group  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
Sustainable Development Goals, which seek to address 
the structural causes of poverty by promoting dignified 
labour for everyone. Equally, the Holy See appreciates 
that  the  goals  and  targets  do  not,  for  the  most  part, 
echo  wealthy  populations’  fears  regarding  population 
growth  in  poorer  countries.  It  also  welcomes  the  fact 
that the goals and targets do not impose on poorer States 
lifestyles  that  are  typically  associated  with  advanced 
economies  and  which  tend  to  show  a  disregard  for 
human dignity.
As  stated  earlier,  the  responsibility  to  protect  is 
relevant to cases of extreme aggressions against human 
rights  and  cases  of  serious  contempt  of  humanitarian 
14-55181
17/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
law  or  grave  natural  catastrophes.  In  a  similar  way, 
there is a need to make legal provision for protecting 
people against other forms of aggression that are less 
evident  but  just  as  serious  and  real.  For  example,  a 
financial system governed only by speculation and the 
maximization  of  profits,  or  one  in  which  individual 
persons are regarded as disposable items in a culture of 
waste, could be tantamount, in certain circumstances, to 
an offence against human dignity. It follows, therefore, 
that the United Nations and its Member States have an 
urgent  and  grave  responsibility  for  the  poor  and  the 
excluded,  mindful  always  that  social  and  economic 
justice is an essential condition for peace.
The President returned to the Chair.
Each day of the sixty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly,  and  indeed  of  its  next  four  sessions,  until 
November 2018, will bear the sad and painful memory 
of the futile and inhumane tragedy of the First World 
War  —  a  senseless  slaughter,  as  Pope  Benedict  XV 
referred  to  it,  with  its  millions  of  victims  and  untold 
destruction. Marking the centenary of the start of the 
conflict,  His  Holiness  Pope  Francis  expressed  his 
desire that
“the mistakes of the past are not repeated, that the 
lessons of history are acknowledged, and that the 
cause of peace may always prevail through patient 
and courageous dialogue”.
In  making  my  own  the  sentiments  of  the  Holy 
Father, I fervently hope that they may be shared by all 
present here. I offer to all members of the Assembly my 
best wishes in their work. I trust that this session will 
spare no effort to put to an end the clamour of weapons 
that marks existing conflicts and that it will continue 
to foster the development of the entire human race, in 
particular the poorest among us.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Secretary of State of the Holy See 
for the statement he has just made.
Archbishop  Pietro  Parolin,  Secretary  of  State  of 
the Holy See, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Walid Al-Moualem, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr. Al-Moualem (Syrian Arab Republic) (spoke in 
Arabic): I would like to congratulate you, Sir, and your 
friendly country, Uganda, on your election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  current  session  and  to 
wish  you  success  in  leading  the  work  of  the  session, 
bearing in mind the important and neutral role of the 
President of the General Assembly. I would also like to 
thank your predecessor, Mr. John Ashe, for his efforts.
Many  events  and  significant  changes  have  taken 
place since I stood here last year (see A/68/PV.21). Those 
events have surprised many of the countries represented 
here today, but they did not surprise us, since we have 
been  warning  the  international  community  about 
trends leading towards the current situation for the past 
three and a half years. Speeches from this rostrum have 
focused  on  the  economic  and  political  crises  that  we 
have been waiting for the international community to 
resolve. However, talking about such issues is no longer 
a priority.
What we have been witnessing for a few months is 
much more dangerous than all the political and economic 
crises that have been happening in the world. More than 
once and from more than one international platform, we 
have talked about the grave threat of terrorism that is 
striking Syria. We said that such terrorism would not be 
limited to the territory of my country, since terrorism 
has  no  boundaries.  Extremist  ideologies  acknowledge 
only  themselves  and  do  not  recognize  anything  but 
slaughter, murder and torture. Today we are witnessing 
what the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the 
most dangerous terrorist organization in the entire world 
in terms of its unprecedented funding and brutality, is 
doing to Syrians and Iraqis of all stripes and religions. 
That terrorist organization is enslaving women, raping 
them and selling them in slave markets. It decapitates 
and  cuts  off  limbs,  teaches  children  to  slaughter  and 
murder and destroys historical and cultural monuments, 
as well as Islamic and Christian symbols.
All that is happening before the eyes of the entire 
world  and  countries  that  have  vowed  always  to  fight 
terrorism,  even  though  they  themselves  have  not 
experienced  the  scourge  of  terror.  Today  I  stand  here 
to ask the following. Is it not time for all of us to stand 
united in the face of the serious threat of terrorist takfiri 
ideology worldwide? Has the time not come for all of us 
to admit that ISIL, the Nusra Front and other Al-Qaida 
affiliates will not remain within the borders of Syria and 
Iraq but will spread to every place that they can reach, 
starting with Europe and America? Should we not learn 
the lesson of what happened in previous years and unite 
all international efforts so as to deal with those groups? 
Those  organizations  have  rallied  extremists  from  all 
18/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
corners of the Earth and brought them to one place to 
train  and  arm  them.  They  then  spread  their  ideology 
and terrorism through those extremists back to where 
they came from.
Some people may say that a resolution was recently 
adopted unanimously under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations in order to prevent the expansion 
of  that  organization  and  other  terrorist  groups  and  to 
eradicate them. It is true that it is better to arrive late 
than  never.  The  resolution,  adopted  on  15  August,  in 
fact came too late. However, the issue here is whether 
everyone  is  serious  about  its  implementation,  as  we 
have  not  yet  seen  any  serious  steps  to  implement  it. 
Furthermore,  we  have  not  seen  any  real  sense  of  fear 
among the regional States that continue to provide all 
kinds of support to those terrorist groups, not enough 
fear  to  cause  them  to  work  for  the  implementation  of 
the  resolution.  On  the  contrary,  what  we  see  on  the 
part of the United States Administration is a policy of 
double  standards  and  alliances  in  order  to  carry  out 
certain  political  agendas,  in  particular  by  supporting 
with money, weapons and training groups that they call 
moderate.
That will lead only to more violence and terrorism, 
the shedding of more Syrian blood, a protracted Syrian 
crisis  and  the  prevention  of  any  political  solution. 
Such  behaviour  creates  fertile  ground  for  the  growth 
of  terrorist  groups  that  are  committing  the  most 
heinous  crimes  on  Syrian  territory.  That  requires  all 
of us to seriously and effectively address and eradicate 
terrorism  in  order  to  restore  security  and  stability  in 
Syria  and  the  region.  Today,  enslaved  women  look  to 
us  to  see  what  we  will  do  for  them,  their  sisters  and 
their  children.  The  sons  and  daughters  of  the  victims 
beheaded by ISIL await our action and our response in 
the face of the atrocities that are being committed daily 
by that terrorist organization, the Nusra Front and other 
groups.
Combating  terrorism  cannot  be  achieved  through 
unimplemented United Nations resolutions. Intentions 
are  meaningless.  We  can  fight  terrorism  through 
the  real  implementation  of  resolutions  or,  clearly,  by 
means  of  military  strikes.  But,  most  importantly,  it 
can  be  achieved  by  preventing  States  from  arming, 
supporting,  training,  funding  and  smuggling  those 
terrorist groups. We must also deprive terrorism of its 
resources.  Striking  terrorism  militarily  while  some 
States continue to support terrorist groups will create a 
vicious cycle from which the international community 
will not escape for decades.
Military strikes should take place at the same time as 
the implementation of Security Council resolution 2178 
(2014),  adopted  on  24  September  under  Chapter  VII. 
We  must  also  put  pressure  on  countries  that  provide 
multifaceted  support  to  such  terrorist  groups.  Those 
countries are well known to us all. The most important 
issue  is  to  put  pressure  on  those  countries  that  have 
exported  and  continue  to  export  extremist  Takfiri 
ideology,  thereby  seriously  jeopardizing  international 
peace and security. ISIL is an ideology transformed into 
an  organization  that  is  supported,  armed  and  trained 
to be unleashed against Syria, Iraq and Lebanon like a 
monster.
Let  us  together  put  an  end  to  that  ideology  and 
its  exporters.  Let  us  simultaneously  put  pressure  on 
the countries that have joined the coalition led by the 
United  States  so  as  to  put  an  end  to  their  support  of 
armed  terrorist  groups.  Only  then  does  combating 
terrorism  militarily  become  viable.  Otherwise,  our 
presence there will not measure up to the tears of the 
captives, enslaved women and children who have fallen 
victim to Daesh, the Nusrah Front and other groups.
Once  again,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  reiterates 
that  it  stands  with  any  international  effort  to  combat 
terrorism.  We  stress  that  that  must  be  done  with  full 
respect  for  the  lives  of  innocent  civilians  and  for 
national sovereignty, in conformity with international 
agreements.  At  the  same  time,  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic  would  like  to  thank  all  countries  that  have 
stood firm and rejected any prejudice to the sovereignty 
of other States, underscoring respect for international 
resolutions.
It  is  high  time  to  unite  all  our  efforts  against 
such  terrorism,  since  everyone  is  surrounded  by  the 
imminent  threat  and  no  country  is  immune  to  it.  My 
country  maintains  its  declared  position  of  the  1980s 
with  regard  to  fighting  terrorism  before  it  becomes 
rampant, as is currently happening.
In Syria we respect our commitments and honour 
our  promises  and  pledges.  We  have  confirmed  that 
position on more than one occasion, particularly since 
the beginning of the Syrian crisis.
Syria agreed unconditionally to attend the Geneva II 
Conference on Syria and participated in its deliberations 
with  an  open  mind,  although  we  were  convinced  that 
14-55181
19/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
the solution to the crisis should be Syrian-owned and 
take place on Syrian territory. However, as a goodwill 
gesture, in order to put an end to the shedding of Syrian 
blood, we went to Geneva, only to find a delegation that 
was not negotiating on behalf of Syrians.
in  Syria’s  modern  history,  they  chose  their  President 
in  multiparty  elections,  with  international  monitors 
from several countries who witnessed the integrity and 
transparency of the elections, as well as the enthusiasm 
of the people to participate in them.
First, that delegation has no influence whatsoever 
on the ground in Syria and has neither popularity nor 
legitimacy  among  the  Syrian  people.  The  delegation 
was  negotiating  with  the  Syrian  Government  while 
following  the  orders  of  its  Western  masters.  It  does 
not  believe  in  combating  or  contronting  terrorism. 
Furthermore,  that  delegation  does  not  respect  Syria’s 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  and  it  verbally 
refuses to ask terrorist groups to stop their terrorist acts. 
We know that that opposition and delegation would not 
be able to pressure anyone, either armed groups or any 
Syrian faction on the ground.
We went to Geneva with the priority of combating 
terrorism, since we believed, and continue to believe, 
that we cannot embark on any political solution while 
terrorism  is  still  rampant  in  Syria.  Some  in  Geneva 
opposed our acknowledging the fight against terrorism 
as  a  priority,  although  it  is  a  paramount  part  of  the 
provisions  of  the  Geneva  declaration.  However,  the 
delegation of the so-called coalition continued to reject 
any proposal to tackle or to condemn terrorism.
Now  we  see  the  entire  international  community 
adopting  our  view  that  fighting  terrorism  is  the  top 
priority  and  that  nothing  whatsoever  can  be  done  as 
long as terrorism brutally strikes everything in its way 
and terrorists return to countries from which they came. 
Once  again,  we  emphasize  that  we  are  ready  for,  and 
even actively seek, a political solution in Syria and talks 
with  all  honourable  opposition  members  who  oppose 
terrorism  in  Syria  and  among  Syrians  themselves  on 
Syrian territory.
Everyone  assumed  their  responsibility  in  the 
presidential elections, which took place before the eyes 
of the world. The will of the Syrian people is greater 
than that of all those who have tried to suppress it for 
more  than  three  years  now.  That  was  demonstrated 
when  the  entire  world  heard  the  voice  of  the  Syrian 
people both inside Syria and beyond.
Now,  after  the  presidential  elections,  we  would 
like  to  tell  all  those  who  desire  and  look  forward 
to  a  political  solution  in  Syria  that  they  must  first 
respect the Syrian people’s will, which was expressed 
explicitly, clearly, firmly and loudly. For the first time 
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  Syrian  people 
have  made  their  choice.  Those  who  want  to  speak  on 
behalf of the people must first be representatives of the 
people  and,  secondly,  must  respect  the  people’s  will 
and  their  decisions.  Any  dialogue  must  therefore  be 
based on respect for the will of the Syrian people and 
their decisions. Accordingly, we are open to a political 
solution in Syria with a genuine opposition that seeks 
the  prosperity,  stability  and  security  of  Syria  —  an 
opposition  that  does  not  depend  on  external  elements 
and  speak  on  their  behalf,  an  opposition  that  has  an 
impact  in  Syrian  territory  and  has  deep  roots  inside 
Syria,  not  in  hotels  and  Western  capitals.  It  must  be 
a  national  opposition  that  upholds  fighting  terrorism 
as  its  priority  and  encourages  the  ongoing  national 
reconciliation efforts, paving the way for a successful 
political solution.
Humanitarian  needs  in  many  basic  areas  have 
increased because of the continuing terrorist attacks in 
Syria. The inhumane sanctions imposed by the European 
Union and the United States have exacerbated the poor 
living conditions of Syrian civilians. At the same time, 
my Government is striving to meet the basic needs of 
our citizens, in particular those forced by terrorist acts 
to flee their homes. We are doing that in cooperation 
with the United Nations and its humanitarian agencies, 
in  the  context  of  the  humanitarian  response  plans 
agreed by those bodies with the Syrian Government.
We should note that a great number of our people 
have  been  forced  to  seek  refuge  in  neighbouring 
countries.  Regrettably,  some  of  those  countries  put 
displaced Syrians in military training camps resembling 
places  of  detention  in  order  to  train  them  to  take  up 
arms. From this rostrum, I underscore the fact that the 
Syrian State guarantees for those citizens who wish it 
a safe return and a decent life, free from the inhumane 
conditions  that  they  suffer  in  those  camps.  I  affirm 
Syria’s  readiness  to  make  every  effort  to  deliver  aid 
from international organizations to all Syrian citizens, 
without  any  discrimination  whatsoever  and  wherever 
they  are,  in  the  context  of  respect  for  our  national 
sovereignty.
20/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
The Syrian Arab Republic confirms its resolve with 
regard  to  the  full  restoration  of  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan up to the line of 4 June 1967. It also emphasizes 
its rejection of all actions taken by Israel, the occupying 
Power, 
the  natural,  geographical  and 
demographic  characteristics  of  the  Golan,  in  clear 
violation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, 
in particular resolutions 497 (1981) and 465 (1980).
to  change 
Syria also affirms that the Palestinian question is 
the  central  issue  for  the  Syrian  people,  who  support 
the  inalienable  and  legitimate  rights  of  the  brotherly 
Palestinian  people,  particularly  their  right  to  return, 
to  self-determination  and  to  establish  an  independent 
State on their land, with Jerusalem as the capital.
Last September, Syria accepted the initiative of the 
President  of  the  Russian  Federation,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  and  acceded  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention on the basis of the need to render 
the  Middle  East  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
all  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  also  wanted  to 
prove to the whole world our commitment to stand firm 
against any use of chemical weapons. Syria has met its 
obligations pursuant to its accession to the Convention 
and  has  fulfilled  its  commitments  despite  the  current 
difficult situation.
Were  it  not  for  Syria’s  cooperation  with  the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW)-United  Nations  Joint  Mission,  the  Mission 
could  not  have  completed  that  task.  The  Special 
Coordinator  of  the  Joint  Mission,  Ms.  Sigrid  Kaag, 
expressed her happiness at and gratitude for the Syrian 
Government’s  fruitful  and  constructive  cooperation, 
which led to the completion of that unprecedented work.
As  a  State  party,  Syria  is  committed  to  the  full 
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  within  the  framework  of  the 
OPCW. However, the big question remaining is whether 
those  who  are  supplying  terrorists  with  chemical  and 
other  types  of  weapons  will  stop  doing  so  and  abide 
by international law, especially the Chemical Weapons 
Convention and the Security Council resolutions related 
to terrorism.
Syria  stresses  that  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  all 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  cannot  be  established 
unless  Israel,  the  only  nuclear  Power  in  the  region, 
accedes  to  all  treaties  banning  the  proliferation  of 
such  weapons  and  puts  its  nuclear  facilities  under 
the  supervision  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency.  At  the  same  time,  we  emphasize  the  right  of 
all countries to acquire and develop nuclear technology 
for peaceful uses.
The  imposition  of  unethical,  unilateral  coercive 
economic  measures  by  the  United  States  and  the 
European Union contravenes international law and the 
principles  of  free  trade.  Therefore,  we  call  for  lifting 
the  blockade  that  the  United  States  has  imposed  on 
Cuba  for  decades,  and  we  renew  our  call  to  lift  and 
stop  all  the  unilateral  coercive  measures  imposed  on 
Syria and the peoples of other countries, such as Iran, 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Venezuela 
and Belarus.
We  look  forward  to  the  United  Nations  being 
able  to  realize  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples  to  live 
in  dignity  and  to  achieve  development  and  food  self-
sufficiency,  free  from  all  forms  of  terrorism,  tension 
and confrontation, in implementation of the principles 
and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations, in 
particular  safeguarding  the  States’  sovereignty  and 
equality in rights and obligations. We also believe that 
priority  should  be  given  to  concerted  efforts  by  the 
international  community  to  combat  the  terrorism  of 
Daesh,  Nusra  Front  and  other  Al-Qaida  affiliates  and 
to  drain  their  resources  so  that  security  and  stability 
will prevail in our region and the entire world.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic.
Mr. Sisoulith (Lao People’s Democratic Republic) 
(spoke in Lao; English text provided by the delegation): 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  I  would  like  to  extend  my 
sincere  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session. I assure you of our full support and cooperation 
in  the  discharge  of  your  duties.  I  would  also  like  to 
sincerely commend His Excellency Mr. John Ashe for 
the  successful  completion  of  his  work  as  President  of 
the Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
We  have  just  over  450  days  remaining  for  the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). While many countries have made considerable 
achievements and will achieve the MDGs, others, like 
the least developed countries, have seen slow progress 
and  face  various  challenges  in  achieving  all  Goals 
within  the  time  frame.  Moreover,  complex  regional 
14-55181
21/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
and  international  situations,  such  as  armed  conflicts, 
political  unrest,  pandemics 
environmental 
degradation,  among  others,  have  inevitably  brought 
about  more  obstacles  to  those  countries’  efforts  to 
realize the MDGs.
and 
Against  that  backdrop,  based  on  past  experience, 
it  is  evident  that  socioeconomic  development  in  any 
country  can  succeed  only  in  an  enabling,  lasting  and 
secure environment. Only under such conditions could 
we  employ  all  efforts  and  draw  on  all  potential  and 
resources  available  in  the  country  for  development  in 
the most effective and sustainable manner.
Over  the  39  years  of  its  existence,  since  the  war 
ended,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has 
deployed  all  its  efforts  in  national  development, 
starting from the period of healing the wounds of war 
to the era of formulating and implementing the seventh 
five-year  national  socioeconomic  development  plan, 
based on the renovation policy set by the Lao People’s 
Revolutionary  Party.  The  achievements  made  in  each 
period are the results of lessons learned through actual 
development  activities  carried  out  and  from  adapting 
to  specific  conditions  within  the  country  and  to  the 
external environment.
Lessons  learned  from  friendly  countries,  both 
near  and  far,  are  valuable  assets.  We  therefore  would 
like to express our sincere appreciation to all friendly 
countries for sharing their knowledge and experience, 
including  both  successes  and  failures,  with  the  small 
and young Lao People’s Democratic Republic in each 
period.
The mid-term review of the implementation of the 
seventh five-year national socioeconomic development 
plan  has  shown  that  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic has made remarkable achievements in many 
areas,  especially  in  maintaining  a  steady  pace  of 
economic  growth,  political  stability  and  social  order, 
thus ensuring that the Lao people of all ethnic groups 
can enjoy their legitimate rights and freedom and can 
actively participate in national development. That has 
laid a solid foundation for the country to move towards 
realizing its ultimate goal of graduating from the least 
developed country status by 2020. The achievements so 
far were made possible not only due to national efforts, 
but also through the support and cooperation extended 
by  friendly  countries  and  development  partners, 
including  international  organizations,  especially  the 
United Nations system.
Nevertheless, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic has also been affected by the global financial 
and economic crisis in recent years. That has given rise 
to major obstacles to national economic development as 
well as to the implementation of various development 
goals.  In  that  regard,  the  Lao  Government  has  taken 
timely measures to stabilize its macroeconomy, aimed 
at promoting sustained growth in the coming years.
In  addition,  as  a  landlocked  and  least  developed 
country, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
remains vulnerable. It still faces numerous challenges, 
especially  in  achieving  some  of  the  MDG  targets, 
including reducing child malnutrition, ensuring gender 
equality in education and reducing child and maternal 
mortality.
Minimizing  the  impact  of  unexploded  ordnance 
(UXO) dropped during the war also remains a challenge. 
Taking  into  account  the  importance  of  dealing  with 
that matter, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has 
adopted  a  localized  millennium  development  goal  on 
addressing the impact of UXO, as its national MDG 9.
Reducing  the  impact  of  UXO  remains  a  huge 
burden and task for the country, as it hampers national 
development  and  the  eradication  of  poverty.  In  that 
connection,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
is  one  of  the  countries  that  initiated  the  process  to 
formulate  the  Oslo  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions. 
The  full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Oslo 
Convention is of great importance, because it will lead 
to a total prohibition of the use, production or transfer 
of cluster munitions.
In that connection, I take this opportunity to convey 
our  congratulations  to  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Belize 
and the Republic of the Congo on their ratification of 
the Oslo Convention, which increased the total number 
of  States  having  done  so  to  86.  We  hope  that  other 
countries  will  also  consider  becoming  parties  to  the 
Convention.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  shares 
the  common  concern  over 
the  escalating  armed 
conflicts  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  which  are 
posing  increasingly  major  threats  to  the  international 
community. We urge all parties concerned to exercise 
the utmost restraint and refrain from taking any action 
that could cause loss of people’s lives or property. Only 
through addressing those conflicts by peaceful means 
can we ensure mutual trust. Resentment and hostility 
against one another lead to escalating violence and use 
22/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
of force, resulting in loss of life and property and pain 
and suffering for innocent people.
In addition, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
shares the strong concern about the escalating conflict 
in Palestine, which has led to loss of Palestinian lives. 
We therefore urge a peaceful resolution of the issue of 
Palestine.
In  this  era  of  interdependence,  cooperation  and 
engagement are key factors for peaceful and mutually 
beneficial coexistence. The enforcement of isolation and 
of sanction measures imposed on any country may not 
benefit the international community. On the contrary, it 
may cause losses to all and lead to increasing hostility. 
Likewise,  the  unilateral  embargo  on  the  Republic  of 
Cuba — a sovereign State — for many decades has had 
a major impact on the lives of the peace-loving Cuban 
people. Therefore, it is now time to lift the embargo.
the 
In this complex and challenging global environment, 
the  United  Nations,  the  only  universal  organization, 
under 
leadership  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  has  made  tireless  efforts  to  seek  ways  and 
means  to  address  these  international  issues,  promote 
cooperation  for  sustainable  development  and  poverty 
eradication and maintain peace, stability and security 
in  the  world.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  various 
initiatives  in  addressing  issues  of  common  concern, 
including  the  organization  of  the  Climate  Summit, 
which has just been successfully concluded.
Nevertheless,  amid  complex  and  unpredictable 
circumstances, the United Nations needs to strengthen 
itself  through  the  reform  of  various  organs  so  that  it 
can  more  effectively  carry  out  its  mandate  and  fulfil 
its obligations. The international community is hoping 
to  see  further  tangible  progress  next  year  on  the 
reform of the United Nations, on the occasion marking 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the 
Organization.
The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  is  a  regional  organization  that  has  enjoyed 
rapid  growth,  and  all  ASEAN-initiated  mechanisms 
are bearing fruitful results. We are therefore convinced 
that  ASEAN  community-building  in  2015  will  be 
successful,  turning  ASEAN  into  a  single  market  and 
production  base  with  increased  competitiveness,  thus 
promoting  trade  and  investment  in  the  region  and 
between ASEAN and its external partners. ASEAN is 
now  earnestly  mapping  out  the  ASEAN  Community 
Post-2015 Vision, aimed at strengthening and ensuring 
ASEAN unity while promoting peace and security in the 
region and the world at large. On that note, we hope that 
the  international  community  will  continue  to  support 
the  implementation  of  the  ASEAN  Community  Post-
2015  Vision,  as  well  as  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic’s ASEAN chairmanship in 2016, after ASEAN 
becomes a Community.
Landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) compose 
one of the groups of countries in special situations that 
are recognized by the international community. After 
10 years of implementation of the Almaty Programme of 
Action on addressing the specific problems and special 
needs of LLDCs, it has been noted that many objectives 
have not been realized, thus those countries continue to 
face daunting challenges and marginalization in many 
areas.
More than half of the LLDCs are also least developed 
countries.  In  that  context,  the  second  United  Nations 
Conference on Landlocked Developing Countries, to be 
held  in  November  in  Vienna,  is  of  great  significance 
to LLDCs, as it will conduct the 10-year review of the 
implementation  of  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  and 
adopt a new programme of action for the next decade. 
On that note, we would like to call upon all stakeholders, 
including  transit  countries  and  development  partners, 
to participate actively in the Conference with a view to 
ensuring its successful outcome. Also, we call on the 
international community to support the implementation 
of  the  new  programme  of  action  in  order  to  help 
those  countries  overcome  their  special  problems  and 
challenges and achieve sustainable development.
The year 2015 will mark the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations.  We  hope  that 
the  international  community  will  spare  no  effort  in 
building a peaceful, secure and prosperous world.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Shaikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa (Bahrain) 
(spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  it  gives  me  great 
pleasure  to  congratulate  you  warmly,  Mr.  President, 
and, through you, your friendly country Uganda upon 
your election as President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-ninth session. I take this opportunity to wish 
you luck and success in the noble mission entrusted to 
you,  and  I  affirm  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain’s  support 
for  your  judicious  proposal  regarding  the  formulation 
14-55181
23/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
and  adoption  of  a  post-2015  development  agenda  that 
will  build  on  past  achievements  in  the  context  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for the well-
being of all people.
It  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  commend  your 
predecessor, Ambassador John Ashe, for his excellent 
conduct of the work of the Assembly during its sixty-
eighth  session  and  his  outstanding  and  successful 
efforts.
We also greatly appreciate the efforts of Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon to revitalize and strengthen the 
Organization’s  role  and  to  realize  its  objectives  in  all 
fields. I commend the report he introduced earlier in the 
current session on the work of the Organization (A/69/1). 
It demonstrates the daunting responsibility assumed by 
our Organization in creating an environment conducive 
to  seeking  appropriate  solutions  to  the  problems  and 
challenges that we all face.
The inaugural statement by the Secretary-General 
at the opening of the general debate (see A/69/PV.6) shed 
light on a number of the challenges facing us, including 
climate change, the spread of diseases, particularly the 
Ebola epidemic in West Africa, the aggravated refugee 
problem, 
the  propagation  of  extremism,  policies 
of  exclusion,  violence,  violations  of  human  rights, 
particularly those affecting women, and issues related 
to health, education and food security.
My  country  supports 
the  Secretary-General’s 
urgent call to conclude a global climate agreement at the 
forthcoming  Lima  and  Paris  conferences  and  stresses 
the importance of the Green Climate Fund, designed to 
mitigate the effects of climate change.
It is a matter of particular pride for me to mention 
the  vigorous  efforts  undertaken  by  the  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain  and  the  resulting  successes  in  countering 
the  numerous  challenges  and  instability  currently 
facing the region. As classified by the United Nations 
(UNDP)  2014  Human 
Development  Programme 
Development  Report  —  which  is  based  on  objective 
statistical criteria regarding, first and foremost, health 
care, education, per capita income and the equality of 
women — the Kingdom of Bahrain is ranked among the 
countries with “very high human development”. That is 
a status achieved through persistent hard work, and we 
will endeavour to maintain it.
Those  goals,  however,  have  never  been  an  end  in 
themselves.  The  principal  objective  is  to  achieve  the 
well-being of Bahraini citizens and to protect all those 
who live within the borders of the Kingdom, an oasis of 
security and calm enjoyed equally by all.
I  am  pleased  to  recall  in  that  context  the  award 
bestowed on His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa 
by the Foundation for Coexistence among Religions in 
recognition of His Majesty’s outstanding contributions 
in  the  field  of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and 
cultures. I also note that the fourteenth Conference on 
All Civilizations in the Service of Humanity was held in 
Manama in early May under the high-level patronage of 
His Majesty the King and with the participation of the 
United Nations and a distinguished group of thinkers, 
scholars and opinion-makers. The Conference adopted 
the Bahrain Declaration, which has been circulated and 
deposited as an official document of the United Nations 
(A/68/959, annex).
Additionally, I would like to mention His Majesty’s 
initiative  to  establish  an  Arab  human  rights  tribunal. 
The initiative has been approved by all States members 
of the League of Arab States, and the statute has been 
adopted.  I  would  also  like  to  mention  the  launch  in 
Bahrain in November 2013 of the UNDP report Water 
Governance  in  the  Arab  Region,  which  calls  for  the 
adoption of a joint Arab water-management strategy.
The Kingdom of Bahrain has continued to play an 
energetic  role  in  the  United  Nations  system,  where  it 
seeks  to  further  progress  through  gradual  and  steady 
reform and modernization along the lines envisaged by 
His Majesty the King. Such reform would be based on a 
strategy of common denominators, continuous and open 
dialogue and a national exchange of views — the same 
strategy as led to the early achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Accordingly,  the  strategies  and 
preparations for the post-2015 development agenda are 
also based on tireless work, determination, persistence, 
good faith and comprehensive planning and are aimed 
at  promoting  continual  and  enhanced  progress  and 
serving  the  interests  of  the  Kingdom’s  citizens  and 
residents alike.
Our  region  is  going  through  a  phase  of  extreme 
difficulty — probably the most difficult in its modern 
history  —  in  which  a  climate  of  instability,  chaos, 
tension and savage, bloody and unprecedented terrorism 
prevails.  Of  the  many  contributing  factors,  the  most 
salient are the following.
First, the accelerated emergence of terrorist groups 
of  various  global  dimensions  and  affiliations.  They 
24/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
thrive  in  our  region,  exhibiting  the  greatest  savagery 
and  callousness.  Not  only  do  they  target  innocent 
people in general, they also engage in such inhumane 
practices  as  mass  murder,  public  beheadings  and  the 
persecution  of  ethnic  and  religious  minorities,  which 
they  displace,  destroying 
their  cultural  heritage, 
depriving them of religious freedom and causing them 
to flee their homes. They attack entire cities and declare 
war on sovereign countries in regional and international 
settings, in complete disregard of all religious doctrines 
and the intrinsic human values — tolerance, equality, 
moderation  and  respect  for  cultural  diversity  —  that 
have enabled human civilizations, including our Arab 
and  Islamic  civilization,  to  coexist.  These  terrorist 
groups  — they include Al-Qaida, the Islamic State in 
Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  and  Hizbullah,  and  their 
extensions  and  counterparts  —  recruit  their  fighters 
from both East and West and perpetrate horrific terrorist 
acts. The young and the old alike are killed, women are 
taken as war bounty, families are displaced and privacy 
is violated, the objective being to undermine security, 
propagate anarchy and topple regimes.
Therefore,  combating  terrorist  groups  requires 
us  to  work  together  in  three  main  areas.  The  first  of 
these  is  the  security  and  military  area,  owing  to  the 
worsening threat posed by these terrorist groups as they 
acquire heavy weapons, enabling them to occupy cities 
for use as safe havens and bases from which to launch 
the  terrorist  operations  that  disrupt  the  stability  and 
security of our region.
We  share  a  common  responsibility  with  friendly 
countries and our allies is to eradicate the terrorist group 
of ISIL. To that end, our air force, in collaboration with 
these countries, has targeted a number of ISIL positions. 
We  welcome  Security  Council  resolution  2178  (2014), 
adopted  on  24  September,  which  focuses  on  stopping 
the  recruitment  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters.  Also,  we 
continue to closely monitor borders and exit and entry 
points  so  as  to  stop  citizens  of  the  Kingdom  from 
contacting or joining terrorist groups and to arrest and 
prosecute all those who have allegedly been affiliated 
to them as soon as they return to the country.
Secondly,  we  must  combat  all  ideology  that  runs 
counter  to  human  nature  and  betrays  true  Islam  by 
distorting its precepts. Muslim clerics and scholars can 
play an important part in counteracting such distortion. 
We therefore call on all Muslim scholars to expose and 
disown ideas that are not related to Islam in any way, 
and  we  appreciate  their  playing  a  leading  role  in  that 
respect. It is imperative to stand together in the face of 
the ideas propagated by the terrorist groups.
to  perpetrate 
Thirdly,  we  must  deal  with  financing,  as  it 
constitutes the lifeline of the terrorist groups, enabling 
them 
their  barbaric  acts,  purchase 
weapons  and  influence  some  young  people.  In  that 
connection,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  will  convene 
a  high-level 
the 
first  week  of  November  to  consider  the  financing  of 
terrorism, how best to combat such financing and how 
to deprive terrorism of its sources of finance. We firmly 
believe that preventing the financing of terrorism will 
significantly contribute to overcoming terrorism and to 
eradicating it.
international  conference  during 
The second challenge to the security and stability of 
our region is that of political expansionism and attempts 
to  impose  hegemony,  in  disregard  of  the  sovereignty 
of States, and to interfere in their internal affairs. All 
the  countries  of  the  region,  without  exception,  have 
suffered  from  such  issues  as  a  result  of  attempts  to 
export  seditious  revolutions  and  to  train  terrorists 
in  violation  of  international  law  and  the  principles 
of  the  United  Nations.  Such  attempts  represent  an 
ideology  that  is  archaic  in  its  political  dimension  and 
in its defiance of the values and principles enshrined in 
numerous international instruments.
One form of such interference is the exploitation of 
the media, in particular satellite television channels and 
social media, which are misused in order to distort facts 
and to cause instability in the region. We condemn such 
illegal  and  illegitimate  practices,  which  contravene 
international values and principles.
I  would  like  to  point  out  what  the  Republic  of 
Yemen  endures.  With  each  step  that  it  takes  forward, 
terrorist groups rush to pursue their criminal objectives 
by undermining its stability and security. The Kingdom 
of Bahrain reaffirms its support for President Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour  and  his  tireless  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  national  consensus  achieved  through  a 
comprehensive  national  dialogue  on  the  basis  of  the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  initiative  and  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
Turning to Iraq, which has suffered from flagrant 
interference, insecurity, hegemony and anarchy, we see 
some hope in the positive developments in the country. 
We are pleased to welcome the election of President Fuad 
Masum and the establishment of the new Government 
under  Prime  Minister  Haider  Al-Abadi.  We  hope 
14-55181
25/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
that  such  a  development  will  enhance  the  political 
and  development  processes,  thereby  contributing  to 
the  consolidation  of  Iraq’s  security  and  stability,  the 
preservation of its sovereignty and territorial integrity 
and the strengthening of its links with its fellow Arabs 
in the region where it naturally belongs.
The conflict in Syria becomes more complex and 
more  acute  every  year.  Innocent  civilians  are  paying 
the ultimate price and losing their lives, property and 
dignity.  The  humanitarian  situation  deteriorates  daily 
in the absence of a comprehensive political solution to 
safeguard the lives of the Syrian people and to extricate 
that  beloved  country  from  its  protracted  suffering 
through  a  comprehensive  political  process  aimed  at 
achieving reform and political plurality. With regard to 
the humanitarian aspect, we reiterate that it is necessary 
to  overcome  all  impediments  to  the  delivery  of 
humanitarian assistance to those in need, in accordance 
with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
In  that  respect,  I  wish  to  express  my  country’s 
great  appreciation  for  the  humanity  shown  by  the 
sisterly  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  in  hosting 
and  delivering  assistance  to  Syrian  refugees.  We  also 
appreciate the humanitarian role played by Turkey and 
Lebanon, as well as by the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees.
With  regard  to  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt, 
the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  welcomes  the  democratic 
development  that  has  taken  place  in  that  country 
and  the  implementation  of  the  road  map  through  the 
establishment of a Constitution that reflects the will of 
the Egyptian people. We also welcome the presidential 
elections and the ongoing preparations for the holding 
of  legislative  elections  so  as  to  complete  the  State 
institutions under the Constitution.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  reiterates  its  complete 
condemnation of any interference in the internal affairs 
of  Egypt.  We  support  the  efforts  of  President  Abdel 
Fattah Al Sisi and the steps that he has taken to combat 
terrorism,  to  preserve  the  security  and  stability  of 
Egypt and to pursue its strategic and active role at the 
Arab, regional and international levels. In that regard, 
I  would  like  to  commend  the  initiative  taken  by  the 
Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah 
Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, King of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia,  in  announcing  the  convening  of  an  Egyptian 
economic summit in support of Egypt and its economic 
development.
We reiterate the historical, principled and constant 
position of the Kingdom of Bahrain in solidarity with 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  our  full  support  for  its 
initiatives  with  regard  to  self-government  for  the 
Moroccan  Sahara  within  Moroccan  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  in  accordance  with  international 
legitimacy.
to  express 
its  grave  concern  about 
With  regard  to  Libya,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
wishes 
the 
deteriorating  security  situation  as  a  result  of  the 
violent  acts  perpetrated  by 
terrorist  groups  and 
the  repercussions  of  such  acts  on  the  stability  of 
neighbouring  countries.  The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
supports 
institutions 
represented  by  the  elected  House  of  Representatives 
and welcomes the establishment of the new Government 
under  Mr.  Abdallah  Al-Thani.  We  hope  that  such  a 
development will help to establish security and stability 
and to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of that 
sisterly country.
the 
legitimate  constitutional 
In view of our keen interest in striving to achieve 
our  principal  goal,  namely,  to  protect  humankind 
from  the  scourge  of  war,  conflict  and  disaster  and  to 
condemn attempts at hegemony and destabilization, we 
reiterate  our  call  to  make  the  Middle  East,  including 
the Arab Gulf region, a zone free of weapons of mass 
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons. On the basis 
of  that  principle,  we  support  the  efforts  of  the  P5+1 
to promptly find a solution to the issue of the Iranian 
nuclear programme, in accordance with the provisions 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons and the Convention on Nuclear Safety, without 
prejudice to the use of nuclear technology for peaceful 
purposes. Such use is a natural right of all States under 
the international safeguards system.
The third and last challenge is the illegal occupation 
of the territory of other States in breach of the principles 
of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  as  demonstrated  by  Israel’s  violation  of  all 
international  laws,  agreements  and  decisions  and  its 
targeting of the Palestinian people by confiscating their 
land, by building or expanding settlements thereon and 
by imposing blockades on them. Such violations found 
their  ugliest  expression  in  the  most  recent  criminal 
aggression  against  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  resulted  in 
tremendous damage and caused the death of more than 
2,000 martyrs, the displacement of a great number of 
Palestinians and the destruction of infrastructure.
26/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
I  would 
like 
to 
recall 
the  words 
of 
President  Mahmoud  Abbas  in  his  statement  before 
the  General  Assembly,  his  request  that  international 
protection  be  provided  to  the  Palestinian  people  and 
their territories under occupation and his demand that 
Israel abide by the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 
(see  A/69/PV.12).  It  is  imperative  to  have  a  specific 
time frame for an end to the Israeli occupation and to 
achieve the aspirations of the Palestinian people for the 
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  on 
all its territory within the boundaries of 4 June 1967, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, as stipulated under 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  two-State  solution, 
in  accordance  with  international  legitimacy  and  the 
relevant United Nations resolutions.
In  that  context,  we  commend  the  pivotal  role 
played  by  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  in  order  to 
reach  a  ceasefire  in  Gaza.  We  greatly  appreciate  its 
hosting, in cooperation with the Kingdom of Norway, 
an international conference in support of Palestine and 
the  reconstruction  of  the  Gaza  Strip  next  month.  We 
also commend the important role of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East.
With  regard  to  the  occupation  by  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  of  the  three  islands  Greater  Tunb, 
Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which belong to the United 
Arab  Emirates,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  reiterates  its 
consistent  position  condemning  that  occupation.  We 
call  on  Iran  to  heed  the  efforts  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates to resolve the issue through direct negotiations 
or through the arbitration of the International Court of 
Justice.
Those  are  the  key  challenges  facing  our  region. 
If we overcome them, it will be relatively easy for us, 
within  our  common  responsibilities,  to  address  the 
international  challenges  that  the  Secretary-General 
described  in  his  statement,  to  which  I  referred  at  the 
beginning of my statement. If we focus on those very 
serious issues, we will be on the right path towards true 
sustainable  development  and  the  necessary  reform  to 
meet the aspirations of all peoples.
Notwithstanding the challenges that we all face, the 
Kingdom of Bahrain will always remain committed to 
moving forward on the path of development, reform and 
positive  interaction  with  the  international  community 
in  order  to  achieve  our  aspirations  and  objectives.  In 
that respect, the Kingdom of Bahrain, in line with its 
firm  approach  towards  reform  under  the  leadership 
of  His  Majesty  the  King,  will  continue  to  work  for 
the upholding of the rule of law, pluralism and active 
political participation. We look forward to the elections 
to be held on 22 November, so as to consolidate all our 
achievements.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underscore  the 
fact  that  in  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  our  choices  are 
clear.  Our  vision  is  comprehensive  and  our  strategy 
complementary to and in line with our Gulf, Arab and 
international  contexts.  The  Kingdom  always  seeks  to 
promote stability, peace, security, development and the 
protection  of  human  rights.  It  rejects  and  condemns 
terrorism, violence and hatred and works for a society 
in which harmony and consensus prevail for the benefit 
of all and for the establishment of a promising future 
full  of  opportunity  and  achievement  for  all  future 
generations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Minister  for  Education  and  Minister  for  Cultural 
Affairs of the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  This  has  been  an 
enormously  difficult  year  for  the  United  Nations.  As 
the  Secretary-General  has  pointed  out,  we  are  living 
in  an  era  of  an  unprecedented  level  of  crises.  I  echo 
his call for leaders to unite. At a time when the world 
seems  to  be  breaking  apart,  it  will  serve  us  well  to 
remember what unites us. We need to look no further 
than the Charter of the United Nations. The preamble 
to  the  Charter  offers  a  vision  that  seems  so  difficult 
for us to fulfil: we are determined “to save succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war”.
The Organization was created, above all, to prevent 
war. Indeed, it offers a system of collective security that 
is far more effective than anything that existed before. 
Yet the events over the past year have shaken its very 
foundations.  At  times,  it  seems  that  we  revert  to  the 
habits of past centuries. We are disturbed by the acts 
of  aggression  perpetrated  against  Ukraine  and  by  the 
illegal  annexation  of  parts  of  its  territory.  Those  acts 
are  massive  violations  of  the  principles  on  which  the 
Organization  was  built.  They  are  a  major  setback  for 
collective security. As a small country situated in the 
heart of Europe and a member of the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe, we hope that we 
can quickly re-establish a consensus on security issues 
in Europe.
14-55181
27/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
The  events  in  Ukraine  also  underline  the  need 
to  ensure  the  enforcement  of  international  law  —  if 
necessary in a court of law. We now, for the first time since 
the Nuremberg Tribunal, have a historic opportunity to 
criminalize  the  most  serious  forms  of  the  illegal  use 
of  force  in  an  international  court.  Jurisdiction  for  the 
crime of aggression before the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  will  be  possible  as  early  as  2017.  The 
ratification process of the Kampala amendments is well 
on track. I welcome the ratifications by Latvia, Poland 
and  Spain  just  a  few  days  ago.  We  look  forward  to 
achieving that goal, together with the largest possible 
number of partners.
For  truly  collective  work  to  maintain  peace  and 
security,  we  need  a  collective  sense  of  purpose.  That 
is  difficult  to  reconcile  with  the  notion  that  a  single 
Security  Council  member  is  able  to  block  the  action 
required if the United Nations is to fulfil its purposes 
and  principles  —  with  no  questions  asked,  no  matter 
how  large  the  majority  in  favour  of  such  action.  We 
of  course  accept  the  veto  as  a  reality  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  we  did  when  we  joined  the 
Organization. However, we do not accept that the veto 
should  be  used  in  a  manner  that  contradicts  the  very 
purposes of the United Nations. We have witnessed too 
many such instances in recent times. Change is urgently 
needed.  We  therefore  look  for  a  commitment  from 
States  serving  on  the  Council  not  to  vote  against  any 
action necessary to prevent or to end crimes of atrocity. 
We look to the permanent members in particular to give 
a clear commitment to that end.
We are determined to reaffirm faith in fundamental 
human rights and in the dignity and worth of the human 
person.  The  United  Nations,  created  as  a  family  of 
nations,  has  the  rights  and  dignity  of  the  individual 
at  the  centre  of  its  efforts.  This  is  a  human  rights 
organization.  The  General  Assembly,  which  we  have 
entrusted  to  your  leadership,  Mr.  President,  during 
this session, is also a human rights organ. The world is 
changing at an ever-increasing speed. That requires our 
continued commitment to human rights.
The  right  to  privacy,  for  example,  is  at  risk  of 
being  lost.  The  digital  era  makes  large-scale  data 
collection  both  easy  to  undertake  and  difficult  to 
detect.  Discrimination  on  the  basis  of  gender,  sexual 
orientation, nationality, ethnicity, religion, disability or 
any other status remains rampant in many parts of the 
world.
The  rise  of  religious  intolerance  is  especially 
alarming. Conflicts around the world are characterized 
by  the  persecution  of  religious  minorities,  be  they 
Shiites, Yazidis, Christians or others. We are witnessing 
a disturbing rise in anti-Semitism. The Assembly should 
respond by uniting in a call against the persecution of 
any religious minority anywhere in the world. I am also 
particularly  alarmed  about  the  rising  violence  against 
human  rights  defenders,  such  as  the  recent  murder 
of  Samira  Saleh  Al-Nuaimi,  an  Iraqi  activist  and  the 
mother  of  three  children.  There  is  nothing  Islamic 
about that barbaric act, committed by the Islamic State 
in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
In  times  of  conflict,  international  humanitarian 
law represents our hope for at least the bare minimum 
of human dignity. The Geneva Conventions of 1949 are 
among not only the greatest achievements in the history 
of international law but also the most successful treaties 
with their near-universal acceptance. Nevertheless, their 
core principles — proportionality in the use of force and 
a distinction between civilians and combatants — are 
violated on a daily basis. The recent conflict in Gaza 
was  carried  out  at  the  expense  of  civilians  by  both 
parties to the conflict. The civilian population of Syria 
has  been  experiencing  enormous  suffering  for  more 
than three years now. Atrocities have been committed 
against  men,  women  and  children  by  the  regime  and, 
increasingly, by other actors. Humanitarian access has 
been  blocked  systematically  as  a  method  of  warfare. 
Civilians  in  both  Syria  and  Iraq  are  left  at  the  mercy 
of  the  sickening  brutality  of  ISIL.  There  has  rarely 
been a time when civilians were at greater risk of being 
victimized by atrocity crimes. We are not living up to 
our  promise,  made  some  10  years  ago,  to  collectively 
ensure protection against such crimes.
We  are  determined  to  reaffirm  faith  in  the  equal 
rights of men and women. Equality between men and 
women was one of the first things on the minds of the 
drafters of the Charter of the United Nations just after 
the end of the Second World War. Is that not striking? 
We  have  certainly  achieved  much  since  then.  The 
1995  Beijing  Fourth  World  Conference  on  Women  in 
particular was a watershed moment in that regard. The 
commemoration  of  its  twentieth  anniversary  is  the 
best  opportunity  for  us  to  show  that  we  remain  fully 
committed to its outcome.
Next year we will also reflect on our progress on 
the women, peace and security agenda 15 years after it 
was established under Security Council resolution 1325 
28/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
(2000). Clearly, we will have to find new strategies to 
protect women in conflict from violence, in particular 
sexual  violence.  We  are  still  far  from  using  the  full 
potential  of  women  as  agents  of  peace.  Men  have 
always  been  in  charge  of  making  war  and  of  making 
peace:  their  record  is  not  impressive.  Women  must 
obtain  their  seat  at  the  negotiating  table,  where  they 
belong and where they are needed. I am grateful to the 
Secretary-General for taking the lead on that issue and 
for increasingly appointing women to high positions in 
the areas of mediation and conflict resolution.
We are determined to establish conditions in which 
justice  and  respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from 
treaties  and  other  sources  of  international  law  can 
be  maintained.  Justice  and  the  rule  of  law  are  areas 
where we have made important progress. International 
courts  and  other  judicial  mechanisms  are  gaining 
greater  acceptance.  Calls 
for  accountability  are 
becoming louder. We can look to an impressive body of 
international jurisprudence.
That  is  particularly  true  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Victims  of  the  gravest  crimes 
around  the  world  place  their  hopes  for  justice  in  the 
Rome  Statute  system.  That  is  a  great  responsibility 
for the Court, an institution which frequently works in 
a  politically  charged  context.  Those  who  support  the 
Court  must  make  that  support  felt.  For  that  reason,  I 
have  initiated  an  informal  network  of  ministers  who 
support the ICC personally as politicians. Our network 
has grown to 26 members. We stand ready to defend the 
Court and the integrity of the Rome Statute, because we 
know that political attacks against the ICC are easy to 
launch but difficult to respond to.
The fact that the Court is an entirely independent 
institution  that  follows  the  law,  not  politics,  does  not 
make the headlines. The fact that the ICC has jurisdiction 
in some places but not in others is easily misrepresented 
as selectivity. Our goal therefore remains for the Rome 
Statute to become a universal treaty. Victims of crimes 
in Syria, Iraq, Palestine and North Korea — to cite just 
a few examples — deserve their day in court as much as 
those in other parts of the world.
We  are  determined  to  promote  social  progress 
and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger  freedom.  There 
could not be a greater challenge for the Assembly than 
setting the global agenda for sustainable development 
for the next generation. And there could not be a greater 
opportunity to show its relevance.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  a 
success. They set the agenda for more than a decade, 
galvanized tremendous efforts for development and led 
to very significant advances. However, they were also 
a learning process. We must be honest about where we 
have  failed  and  do  better  where  we  can.  Three  areas 
stand out in that respect.
First, accountable institutions, access to justice and 
an effective fight against corruption are key ingredients 
of  development  that  are  truly  transformative  and 
sustainable.  That  is  amply  illustrated  by  national 
experiences around the world and is well documented 
by research. Placing the rule of law at the heart of the 
sustainable development goal agenda will therefore be 
one key of success.
Secondly,  there  is  no  sustainable  development 
without  the  full  empowerment  of  women.  Nothing 
short of full equality between men and women will be 
required  for  development  to  be  sustainable.  We  must 
therefore fully recognize the empowerment of women 
as a key ingredient of sustainable development.
Thirdly, 
the 
implementation  of 
international 
commitments  cannot  be  left  to  chance.  We  need 
accountability. We must establish a system to monitor 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
agenda,  carried  out  by  us  as  States  but  involving  all 
stakeholders.  The  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development is the best anchor for such a 
system.
Our work to date in developing the post-2015 agenda 
gives us cause to be optimistic. Let us make the best use 
of the upcoming months to produce an agenda of which 
we can be truly proud as a platform for collective action 
and an inspiration for future generations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Erlan Abdyldayev, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Abdyldayev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
First of all, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth  session  and  to  wish  you  every  success 
in  carrying  out  that  important  task.  It  is  also  a  great 
pleasure to express my gratitude to Mr. John Ashe for 
his  successful  and  fruitful  guidance  of  the  previous 
session of the General Assembly.
in 
the  world  vividly 
demonstrates  that  the  ongoing  instability,  increasing 
The  current  situation 
14-55181
29/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
disputes among the leading world Powers and the absence 
of a clear and comprehensible vision for the future of the 
world order have become part of our everyday life. War, 
conflict, a refusal to listen to one another and unilateral 
action  are  pushing  the  international  community  ever 
closer to the precipice. Such developments undermine 
our  efforts  to  work  together  effectively  to  address 
today’s  threats  and  challenges.  It  is  no  surprise  that 
various  terrorist  and  extremist  groups  are  cunningly 
taking advantage of the prevailing political vacuum and 
fierce opposition among world and regional Powers in 
order not only to insinuate and assert their presence, but 
also  to  demonstrate  their  ability  to  directly  influence 
the situation around the world.
Therefore,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a 
platform for comprehensive dialogue is becoming ever 
more important. Kyrgyzstan has consistently advocated 
the  further  strengthening  of  the  central  coordinating 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs  so 
as to maintain peace, security and stability; to promote 
shared sustainable and constructive development; and 
to  encourage  broad  international  cooperation.  We 
believe that the ongoing and emerging sources of global 
instability  require  a  strengthened  role  for  the  United 
Nations in every possible way. The relevance of political 
and  diplomatic  conflict  resolution  is  reconfirmed  by 
the situations in Afghanistan, the Sahel, East and West 
Africa,  Ukraine  and  Syria.  In  order  to  overcome  the 
threats and challenges to peace, prosperity and creative 
development,  we  should  firmly  and  resolutely  move 
forward by uniting the efforts of the entire international 
community.  Kyrgyzstan  expresses  its  full  readiness 
to  participate  in  such  constructive  and  effective 
international cooperation.
Against  the  backdrop  of  such  negative  global 
political  developments,  the  further  strengthening  of 
human rights principles and of the rule of law, based on 
constructive approaches and cooperation, is becoming 
all the more relevant. For Kyrgyzstan, these principles 
are  an  integral  part  of  political  development.  The 
upcoming  parliamentary  and  presidential  elections  in 
Kyrgyzstan, in 2015 and 2017, will serve as an important 
step in strengthening the democratic foundations of our 
country.  We  hope  that  the  international  community 
will  provide  effective  assistance  to  Kyrgyzstan  in 
implementing  its  far-reaching  goals.  In  line  with  our 
commitment to democratic principles and the desire to 
make a further contribution to the dialogue on global 
democracy,  Kyrgyzstan  has  announced  its  candidacy 
for the Human Rights Council for the period of 2016-
2018.  We  count  on  the  support  of  members  of  the 
Assembly in that regard.
The world today is at a difficult juncture, marked 
by increasing regional and international instability. All 
nations, regardless of their geographical location, face 
similar security challenges. Our region, in this regard, 
is  no  exception.  It  is  obvious  that  the  most  serious 
external challenge to Central Asia remains the situation 
in  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  the  threats  of  terrorism, 
extremism  and  drug  trafficking  emanating  from  that 
country.
As  in  the  past,  problems  related  to  illegal  drug-
trafficking as a direct consequence of the situation in 
Afghanistan  are  among  the  most  severe  in  the  entire 
region.  We  are  especially  alarmed  by  the  continuing 
strong link between terrorism and illegal Afghan drugs, 
which  undermine  the  achievements  in  Afghanistan’s 
security situation and its ability to ensure law and order 
throughout the country. In this regard, it is necessary 
to  pool  efforts  with  the  United  Nations  to  promote 
security and stability in Afghanistan.
In  order  to  effectively  curb  these  threats,  we  call 
for a more proactive international contribution, in order 
to strengthen the capacity of regional law-enforcement 
agencies  and  to  promote  regional  cooperation.  We 
attach  particular  importance  to  the  Istanbul  Process 
as  an 
improving  regional 
cooperation on Afghan issues. We count on the active 
participation  of  all  parties  in  achieving  practical 
results.  We  hope  that  the  establishment  of  the  new 
Government of Afghanistan by Mr. Ashraf Ghani and 
Mr. Abdullah Abdullah will be the starting point for the 
future stabilization in that war-weary country.
important  dialogue 
in 
Another  important  factor  for  regional  instability 
is  the  unresolved  border  issue  in  Central  Asia. 
Undoubtedly,  a  successful  solution  is  in  the  best 
interests of all States of the region. The solution would 
greatly  contribute  to  enhancing  the  regional  transit 
potential  of  our  countries,  developing  cross-border 
infrastructure,  improving  the  economic  situation  and 
decreasing  social  tension.  In  this  regard,  I  call  on  all 
Central Asian States to support the recent initiative of 
the President of Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Almazbek Atambaev, 
on the development and subsequent signing of bilateral 
agreements  on  border-related  confidence-building,  as 
put forward at the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organization  held  in  Dushanbe.  I  am  confident  that 
30/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
the successful implementation of that initiative would 
let  us  take  historic  steps  towards  the  development  of 
regional  economic  and  trade  relations,  as  well  as  in 
jointly maintaining regional stability.
Amid  the  turmoil  sweeping  through  the  Middle 
East,  it  is  especially  important  to  focus  our  attention 
on  the  issue  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  peace  process, 
which we view as the major destabilizing factor for the 
region  and  the  world.  The  use  of  force  leads  only  to 
further bloodshed, destruction and hatred and does not 
solve any problem. In order to revive mutual trust, the 
conflict  must  be  resolved  by  exclusively  political  and 
diplomatic means, on the basis of relevant resolutions 
of the Security Council.
implementing  a 
The theme of the present general debate, “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development agenda”, is both timely and relevant. Next 
year, at the seventieth anniversary session of the United 
Nations, we will need to formulate and adopt new goals 
for the following 15 years. The evolving situation today 
illustrates that many countries, including Kyrgyzstan, 
are  unlikely  to  achieve  all  the  objectives  proposed  in 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  the  next  year.  We 
believe  that  the  goals  not  achieved  should  be  refined 
in the light of gained experience and they should find 
proper reflection in the post-2015 goals for sustainable 
development.
We  advocate  including  countries  with  special 
development  needs  on  the  agenda  of  the  post-2015 
agenda.  Kyrgyzstan  falls  into  such  a  category.  Ours 
is  a  developing,  landlocked  and  mountainous  State 
that  is  highly  vulnerable  to  climate  change.  It  is  well 
known  that  extreme  poverty  in  Kyrgyzstan  has  many 
causes,  foremost  among 
them  a  disadvantageous 
geographical  location.  More  than  70  per  cent  of  our 
territory  is  mountainous.  The  country  lies  5,000 
metres  above  sea  level,  with  approximately  one  third 
of its total area lying 400 metres above sea level. Such 
States are characterized by remoteness, inaccessibility, 
informational  isolation,  severe  geoclimatic  conditions 
and a high cost of living.
For  Kyrgyzstan,  the  absence  of  access  to  the  sea 
is  yet  another  factor  having  a  restrictive  effect  on 
our  economic  development.  Remoteness  from  major 
international transport networks and high transportation 
costs  hinder  the  development  of  multi-vector  and 
diversified  international  economic  relations  and  the 
implementation of the country’s large-scale investment 
projects.  We  believe  that  the  establishment  of  an 
international development fund to provide support and 
assistance for the economies of developing landlocked 
countries  would  contribute 
their  sustainable 
economic  development.  This  is  especially  important 
in the run-up to the second United Nations Conference 
on  Landlocked  Developing  Countries,  to  be  held  in 
Vienna, where a new programme of action for the next 
decade should be adopted.
to 
The  year  2015  will  be  a  milestone  for  the  entire 
world  community.  In  addition  to  the  adoption  of  the 
post-2015  agenda,  we  anticipate  the  adoption  of  an 
international  legally  binding  instrument  on  climate 
change.  On  23  September,  on  the  margins  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  United  Nations  Summit  on 
Climate  Change  was  held,  at  which  States  outlined 
their  vision  for  a  solution  incorporating  adaptation  to 
and  mitigation  of  climate  change.  For  Kyrgyzstan,  as 
for  all  mountainous  countries  whose  ecosystems  are 
highly sensitive to climate change, these issues are of 
priority  importance  on  the  national  agenda.  Abruptly 
melting glaciers, rising temperatures, soil degradation, 
landslides,  mudflows  and  floods  cause  significant 
economic  damage  and  serve  as  vivid  reminders  of 
the  vulnerability  of  mountain  ecosystems.  According 
to  reliable  forecasts,  Kyrgyzstan’s  ice  cover  could  be 
reduced by 40 per cent by 2025, leading to a one third 
drop in the water available in the region. In that regard, 
conscious  of  the  undoubted  interconnections  between 
the  environment,  climate  change  and  sustainable 
development  goals,  we  believe  that  it  is  essential  that 
the interests of vulnerable countries be adequately and 
fairly reflected in future action at the global level.
Speaking  of  regional  problems  in  Central  Asia,  I 
should note that dealing as we are with global challenges 
such  as  climate  change,  the  potential  threat  of  an 
energy  crisis  and  population  growth,  water  resources 
are  a  key  factor  in  prosperity,  and  in  that  regard,  our 
basic position is that the issues of water resources and 
energy  are  indissolubly  linked  and  inseparable  from 
each other. It is crucial to understand that hydropower 
development  is  an  essential  precondition  for  our 
sustainable  development.  That  is  entirely  consistent 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  declaring 
the  period  between  2014  and  2024  the  Decade  of 
Sustainable  Energy  for  All.  It  is  clear  that  access  to 
modern,  affordable  and  environmentally  friendly 
energy supplies is essential if developing countries are 
14-55181
31/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
to  achieve  global  development  goals,  including  those 
in the Millennium Declaration. The issue of affordable 
energy 
appropriately 
reflected in the new world agenda of the United Nations 
post-2015.
should  unquestionably  be 
The recovery and secure storage of uranium tailings 
in Kyrgyzstan remains a serious transboundary problem 
for  Central  Asia.  Most  are  concentrated  in  densely 
populated areas, and their condition has deteriorated in 
the last 10 years in the wake of closings of industrial 
enterprises and major production facilities. Moreover, 
a large part of these tailings are at risk of exposure to 
landslides and floods, as they are located in seismically 
active  regions  near  the  banks  of  Central  Asia’s  major 
transboundary rivers. Despite my Government’s efforts 
at the national level, along with the support of various 
international  programmes  and  projects,  the  serious 
social,  economic  and  environmental  problems  related 
to these issues continue. I would therefore like to urge 
the  international  community  to  assist  Kyrgyzstan 
in  dealing  with  this  problem  of  radioactive  and  toxic 
waste  through  full  rehabilitation  of  the  contaminated 
areas, as envisioned in resolution 68/218, on the role of 
the  international  community  in  averting  the  radiation 
threat in Central Asia.
in 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  no 
State can solve all the challenges it faces and maintain 
sustainable  development 
isolation.  We  cannot 
achieve our sustainable development goals and establish 
global  order  without  the  consolidated  efforts  of  the 
international community. In that regard, I would like to 
assure the Assembly that Kyrgyzstan, in its partnership 
with the United Nations, stands ready to contribute to 
the search for new opportunities to solve the complex 
challenges  of  our  time,  as  well  as  to  contribute  to 
strengthening stability and peace in the world.
Address  by  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime 
Minister and Minister of Public Affairs and the 
Diaspora of the State of Israel
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister of Public 
Affairs and the Diaspora of the State of Israel.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora of the 
State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Public  Affairs  and  the 
Diaspora  of  the  State  of  Israel,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Netanyahu  (Israel):  I  come  here  from 
Jerusalem to speak on behalf of my people, the people 
of  Israel.  I  have  come  to  speak  about  the  dangers  we 
face and about the opportunities we seek. I have come 
to expose the brazen lies spoken from this very rostrum 
about my country and the brave soldiers who defend it.
The people of Israel pray for peace, but our hopes 
for peace, and those of the world, are in danger, because 
everywhere we look militant Islam is on the march. It 
is not militants; it is not Islam; it is militant Islam, and 
typically,  its  first  victims  are  other  Muslims.  But  it 
spares no one. Christians, Jews, Yazidis, Kurds — no 
creed,  no  faith,  no  ethnic  group  is  beyond  its  sights, 
and it is rapidly spreading in every part of the world. 
We know the famous American saying “All politics is 
local”. For the militant Islamists, all politics is global, 
because their ultimate goal is to dominate the world.
Now that threat might seem exaggerated to some, 
since  it  starts  out  small,  like  a  cancer  that  attacks  a 
particular  part  of  the  body.  But  left  unchecked,  the 
cancer  grows,  metastasizing  over  wider  and  wider 
areas. To protect the peace and security of the world, 
we must remove that cancer before it is too late. Last 
week,  many  of  the  countries  represented  here  rightly 
applauded  President  Obama  for  leading  the  effort 
to  confront  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS);  and  yet  weeks  before,  some  of  those  same 
countries  —  the  same  countries  that  now  support 
confronting  ISIS  —  opposed  Israel  for  confronting 
Hamas. Evidently, they do not understand that ISIS and 
Hamas are branches of the same poisonous tree.
ISIS  and  Hamas  share  a  fanatical  creed  that  they 
both seek to impose well beyond the territory under their 
control. Let us listen to what ISIS’s self-declared Caliph, 
Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, said two months ago. He said 
that the day would soon come when the Muslim would 
walk everywhere as a master, and that Muslims would 
cause the world to hear and understand the meaning of 
terrorism, and destroy the idol of democracy. Now let 
us  listen  to  Khaled  Mashal,  the  leader  of  Hamas.  He 
proclaims a similar vision of the future. “We say this to 
the West”, he says. “By Allah it will be defeated, and 
tomorrow our nation will sit on the throne of the world”.
As  its  Charter  makes  clear,  Hamas’s  immediate 
goal is to destroy Israel; but it has a broader objective. 
32/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
It  also  wants  a  caliphate.  Hamas  shares  the  global 
ambitions  of  its  fellow  militant  Islamists,  and  that  is 
why its supporters cheered wildly in the streets of Gaza 
when thousands of Americans were murdered on 9/11. 
That  is  why  its  leaders  condemned  the  United  States 
for killing Osama Bin Laden, whom they praised as a 
holy  warrior.  When  it  comes  to  their  ultimate  goals, 
therefore, Hamas is ISIS and ISIS is Hamas.
And  what  they  share  in  common,  all  militant 
Islamists share in common — Boko Haram in Nigeria, 
Al-Shabaab in Somalia, Hizbullah in Lebanon, Al-Nusra 
in Syria, the Al-Mahdi Army in Iraq and the Al-Qaida 
branches  in  Yemen,  Libya,  the  Philippines,  India  and 
elsewhere.  Some  are  radical  Sunnis,  some  are  radical 
Shiites. Some want to restore a pre-medieval caliphate 
from  the  seventh  century.  Others  want  to  trigger  the 
apocalyptic return of an imam from the ninth century.
They  operate  in  different  lands.  They  target 
different  victims.  They  even  kill  each  other  in  their 
battle  for  supremacy.  But  they  all  share  a  fanatic 
ideology.  They  all  seek  to  create  ever  expanding 
enclaves of militant Islam, where there is no freedom 
and no tolerance, where women are treated as chattel, 
Christians are decimated and minorities are subjugated, 
and sometimes given the stark choice: convert or die. 
For them, anyone can be consider an infidel, including 
fellow Muslims.
Militant  Islam’s  ambition  to  dominate  the  world 
seems  mad,  but  so  too  did  the  global  ambitions  of 
another  fanatic  ideology  that  swept  into  power  eight 
decades ago. The Nazis believed in a master race. The 
militant  Islamists  believe  in  a  master  faith.  They  just 
disagree as to who among them will be the master of 
the master faith. That is what they truly disagree about. 
Therefore,  the  question  before  us  is  whether  militant 
Islam  will  have  the  power  to  realize  its  unbridled 
ambitions.
There 
that  could  soon 
happen — the Islamic State of Iran. For 35 years, Iran 
has relentlessly pursued the global mission that was set 
forth by its founding ruler, Ayatollah Khomeini, with 
the following words:
is  one  place  where 
“We will export our revolution to the entire world, 
until the cry ‘There is no God but Allah’ will echo 
throughout the world over”.
Ever  since, 
the  regime’s  brutal  enforcers,  Iran’s 
Revolutionary  Guards,  have  done  exactly  that.  Let  us 
listen  to  its  current  commander,  General  Mohammad 
Ali Jafari, who clearly stated that goal:
“Our Imam did not limit the Islamic Revolution to 
this country. Our duty is to prepare the way for an 
Islamic world Government.”
Iran’s  president,  Mr.  Rouhani,  stood  here  last 
week and shed crocodile tears over what he called the 
globalization  of  terrorism.  Maybe  he  should  spare  us 
those  phony  tears  and  have  a  word  instead  with  the 
commanders of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards. He could 
ask  them  to  call  off  Iran’s  global  terror  campaign, 
which  has  included  attacks  in  two  dozen  countries 
on  five  continents  since  2011  alone.  To  say  that  Iran 
does  not  practice  terrorism  is  like  saying  Derek  Jeter 
never played shortstop for the New York Yankees. The 
bemoaning  by  the  Iranian  President  of  the  spread  of 
terrorism has got to be one of history’s greatest displays 
of double talk.
Some argue that Iran’s global terror campaign — its 
subversion  of  countries  throughout  the  Middle  East 
and well beyond the Middle East — is the work of the 
extremists.  They  say  that  things  are  changing.  They 
point  to  last  year’s  election  in  Iran.  They  claim  that 
Iran’s  smooth-talking  President  and  Foreign  Minister 
have changed not only the tone of Iran’s foreign policy 
but also its substance. They believe that Rouhani and 
Zarif  generally  want  to  reconcile  with  the  West,  that 
they have abandoned the global mission of the Islamic 
Revolution. Really?
Let us look at what Foreign Minister Zarif wrote in 
his book just a few years ago:
“We  have  a  fundamental  problem  with  the  West, 
and  especially  with  America.  This  is  because  we 
are  heirs  to  a  global  mission  which  is  tied  to  our 
raison d’être”.

A  global  mission  which  is  tied  to  our  very 
reason  for  being?  Then  Zarif  asks  a  question  —  an 
interesting question, in my view. He says, “How come 
Malaysia” —  referring  to  an  overwhelmingly  Muslim 
country — “does not have similar problems?” Then he 
answers: “Because Malaysia is not trying to change the 
international order”. That is our moderate.
Let us not be fooled by Iran’s manipulative charm 
offensive. It is designed for one purpose and one purpose 
only — to have the sanctions lifted and the obstacles to 
Iran’s path to the bomb removed. The Islamic Republic 
is  now  trying  to  bamboozle  its  way  to  an  agreement 
14-55181
33/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
that will remove the sanctions it still faces and leave it 
with the capacity of thousands of centrifuges to enrich 
uranium. That would effectively cement Iran’s place as 
a threshold military nuclear Power. In the future, at the 
time of its choosing, Iran, the world’s most dangerous 
regime,  in  the  world’s  most  dangerous  region,  would 
obtain the world’s most dangerous weapons. Allowing 
that to happen would pose the gravest threat to us all.
It  is  one  thing  to  confront  militant  Islamists  on 
pickup  trucks  armed  with  Kalashnikov  rifles.  It  is 
another thing to confront militant Islamists armed with 
weapons of mass destruction. I remember that last year 
everyone here was rightly concerned about the chemical 
weapons  in  Syria,  including  the  possibility  that  they 
would  fall  into  the  hands  of  terrorists.  Well,  that  did 
not  happen,  and  President  Obama  deserves  great 
credit  for  leading  the  diplomatic  effort  to  dismantle 
virtually  all  of  Syria’s  chemical  weapons  capability. 
We  can  only  imagine  how  much  more  dangerous 
the  Islamic  State —  ISIS —  would  be  if  it  possessed 
chemical  weapons.  Now,  let  us  imagine  how  much 
more dangerous the Islamic State of Iran would be if it 
possessed nuclear weapons.
Would you let ISIS enrich uranium? Would you let 
ISIS  build  a  heavy-water  reactor?  Would  you  let  ISIS 
develop  intercontinental  ballistic  missiles?  Of  course 
you  would  not.  Then  you  must  not  let  the  Islamic 
State of Iran do those things either, because if you do, 
here  is  what  will  happen.  Once  Iran  produces  atomic 
bombs, all the charm and all the smiles will suddenly 
disappear  —  they  will  just  vanish.  It  is  then  that  the 
ayatollahs will show their true face and unleash their 
aggressive fanaticism on the entire world.
There  is  only  one  responsible  course  of  action  to 
address this threat. Iran’s nuclear military capabilities 
must  be  fully  dismantled.  Make  no  mistake  —  ISIS 
must be defeated, but to defeat ISIS and leave Iran as 
a threshold nuclear Power is to win the battle and lose 
the war.
The fight against militant Islam is indivisible. When 
militant  Islam  succeeds  anywhere,  it  is  emboldened 
everywhere. When it suffers a blow in one place, it is set 
back in every place. That is why Israel’s fight against 
Hamas is not just our fight; it is everyone’s fight. Israel is 
fighting a fanaticism today that other countries may be 
forced to fight tomorrow. For 50 days this past summer, 
Hamas  fired  thousands  of  rockets  at  Israel,  many  of 
them supplied by Iran. I want members to think about 
what their countries would do if thousands of rockets 
were  fired  at  their  cities.  Let  them  imagine  millions 
of their citizens having seconds at most to scramble to 
bomb  shelters,  day  after  day.  Members  would  not  let 
terrorists fire rockets at their cities with impunity, nor 
would  they  let  terrorists  dig  dozens  of  terror  tunnels 
under their borders to infiltrate their towns in order to 
murder and kidnap their citizens. Israel justly defended 
itself against both rocket attacks and terror tunnels.
Yet  Israel  faced  another  challenge.  We  faced  a 
propaganda war because, in an attempt to win the world’s 
sympathy,  Hamas  cynically  used  Palestinian  civilians 
as human shields. It used schools — not just schools, 
United  Nations  schools  —  private  homes,  mosques 
and  even  hospitals  to  store  and  fire  rockets  at  Israel. 
As Israel surgically struck at the rocket launchers and 
at the tunnels, Palestinian civilians were tragically but 
unintentionally  killed.  There  are  heartrending  images 
that  resulted,  and  these  fuelled  libellous  charges  that 
Israel was deliberately targeting civilians. We were not. 
We deeply regret every single civilian casualty.
And  the  truth  is,  Israel  was  doing  everything  to 
minimize  Palestinian  civilian  casualties.  Hamas  was 
doing everything to maximize Israeli civilian casualties 
and  Palestinian  civilian  casualties.  Israel  dropped 
flyers, made phone calls, sent text messages, broadcast 
warnings  in  Arabic  on  Palestinian  television  —  all 
this to enable Palestinian civilians to evaluate targeted 
areas. No other country and no other army in history 
have gone to greater lengths to avoid casualties among 
the civilian population of their enemies.
Such concern for Palestinian life was all the more 
remarkable  given  that  Israeli  civilians  were  being 
bombarded  by  rockets,  day  after  day,  night  after 
night.  And  as  their  families  were  being  rocketed  by 
Hamas,  Israel’s  citizen  army,  the  brave  soldiers  of 
the  Israel  Defense  Forces,  our  young  boys  and  girls, 
upheld  the  highest  moral  values  of  any  army  in  the 
world.  Israel’s  soldiers  deserve  not  condemnation 
but  admiration  —  admiration  from  decent  people 
everywhere.
Here 
is  what  Hamas  did.  Hamas  embedded 
its  missile  batteries  in  residential  areas  and  told 
Palestinians  to  ignore  Israel’s  warnings  to  leave. 
And just in case people did not get the message, they 
executed  Palestinian  civilians  in  Gaza  who  dared  to 
protest. And, no less reprehensible, Hamas deliberately 
34/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
placed  its  rockets  where  Palestinian  children  live  and 
play.
courts, and where women, gays and minorities live in a 
genuinely free society.
Let  me  show  the  Assembly  a  photograph.  It  was 
taken by a France 24 crew during the recent conflict. 
It shows two Hamas rocket launchers, which were used 
to attack us. Three children can be seen playing next to 
them.  Hamas  deliberately  put  its  rockets  in  hundreds 
of residential areas like this — hundreds of them. That 
is a war crime. I say to President Abbas, these are the 
crimes — the war crimes — committed by his Hamas 
partners  in  the  national  unity  Government  which  he 
heads  and  for  which  he  is  responsible.  These  are  the 
real war crimes he should have investigated or spoken 
out against from this rostrum last week.
As  Israel’s  children  huddle  in  bomb  shelters  and 
Israel’s  Iron  Dome  missile  defence  knocked  Hamas 
rockets  out  of  the  sky,  the  profound  moral  difference 
between Israel and Hamas could not have been clearer. 
Israel  was  using  its  missiles  to  protect  its  children; 
Hamas was using its children to protect its missiles.
By investigating Israel rather than Hamas for war 
crimes, the United Nations Human Rights Council has 
betrayed  its  noble  mission  to  protect  the  innocent.  In 
fact, what it is doing is to turn the laws of war upside 
down.  Israel,  which  took  unprecedented  steps  to 
minimize  civilian  casualties,  is  condemned;  Hamas, 
which both targeted and hid behind civilians — that is a 
double war crime — is given a pass. The Human Rights 
Council  is  thus  sending  a  clear  message  to  terrorists 
everywhere:  “Use  civilians  as  a  human  shield.  Use 
them again and again and again.” And you know why? 
Because,  sadly,  it  works.  By  granting  international 
legitimacy  to  the  use  of  human  shields,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  has  become  a  terrorist  rights  council, 
and  it  will  have  repercussions  —  it  probably  already 
has — in terms of the use of civilians as human shields. 
It  is  not  just  our  interests  and  values  that  are  under 
attack: it is the interests and values of all of us.
We  live  in  a  world  steeped  in  tyranny  and  terror, 
where gays are hanged from cranes in Tehran, political 
prisoners are executed in Gaza, young girls are abducted 
en  masse  in  Nigeria  and  hundreds  of  thousands  are 
butchered in Syria, Libya and Iraq, yet nearly half of 
the Human Rights Council’s resolutions focusing on a 
single country have been directed against Israel — the 
one true democracy in the Middle East; Israel, where 
issues  are  openly  debated  in  a  boisterous  Parliament, 
where  human  rights  are  protected  by  independent 
The biased treatment of Israel by the Human Rights 
Council — that is a misnomer, but I will use it just the 
same — is only one manifestation of the return of one 
of the world’s oldest prejudices. We hear mobs today in 
Europe calling for the gassing of Jews. We hear some 
national  leaders  compare  Israel  to  the  Nazis.  This  is 
not  a  function  of  Israel’s  policies;  it  is  a  function  of 
diseased minds, and that disease has a name. It is called 
anti-Semitism.  It  is  now  spreading  in  polite  society 
where it masquerades as legitimate criticism of Israel. 
For centuries, the Jewish people have been demonized 
with  blood  libels  and  charges  of  deicide.  Today,  the 
Jewish State is demonized with the apartheid libel and 
charges of genocide.
In  what  moral  universe  does  genocide  include 
warning  the  enemy  civilian  population  to  get  out 
of  harm’s  way  or  ensuring  that  they  receive  tons  of 
humanitarian aid each day, even as thousands of rockets 
are  being  fired  at  us,  or  setting  up  a  field  hospital 
to  aid  their  wounded?  I  suppose  it  is  the  same  moral 
universe  in  which  a  man  who  wrote  a  dissertation  of 
lies about the Holocaust and who insists on a Palestine 
free of Jews — Judenrein — can stand at this rostrum 
and  shamelessly  accuse  Israel  of  genocide  and  ethnic 
cleansing. In the past, outrageous lies against the Jews 
were  the  precursors  to  the  wholesale  slaughter  of  our 
people. But no more; today, we the Jewish people have 
the power to defend ourselves. We will defend ourselves 
against our enemies on the battlefield and we will expose 
their lies against us in the court of public opinion. Israel 
will continue to stand proud and unbowed.
Despite  the  enormous  challenges  facing  Israel,  I 
believe we have a historic opportunity. After decades of 
seeing Israel as their enemy, leading States in the Arab 
world increasingly recognize that together we and they 
face many of the same dangers. Principally, that means 
a nuclear-armed Iran and militant Islamist movements 
gaining ground in the Sunni world. Our challenge is to 
transform those common interests in order to create a 
productive partnership that would build a more secure, 
peaceful and prosperous Middle East. Together we can 
strengthen regional security. We can advance projects 
in water, agriculture, transportation, health care, energy 
and so many other fields.
I believe that the partnership between us can also 
help facilitate peace between Israel and the Palestinians. 
14-55181
35/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
Many  have  long  assumed  that  an  Israeli-Palestinian 
peace  can  help  facilitate  a  broader  rapprochement 
between Israel and the Arab world. But I believe that, 
these days, it may work the other way around, namely, 
that  a  broader  rapprochement  between  Israel  and  the 
Arab  world  may  help  facilitate  an  Israeli-Palestinian 
peace. Therefore, to achieve that peace, we must look 
not only to Jerusalem and Ramallah but also to Cairo, 
Amman, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh and elsewhere. I believe 
that peace could be realized with the active involvement 
of Arab countries that are willing to provide political, 
material and other indispensable support.
Israel’s 
I am ready to make a historic compromise, and not 
because  Israel  occupies  a  foreign  land.  The  people  of 
Israel are not occupiers in the land of Israel. History, 
archaeology and common sense all make clear that we 
have  had  a  singular  attachment  to  this  land  for  over 
3,000  years.  I  want  peace  because  I  want  to  create  a 
better future for my people. But it must be a genuine 
peace, one that is anchored in mutual recognition and 
enduring security arrangements — rock-solid security 
arrangements  —  on  the  ground.  Israel’s  withdrawal 
from  Lebanon  and  Gaza  created  two  militant  Islamic 
enclaves on our borders from which tens of thousands 
of  rockets  have  been  fired  at  Israel.  Those  sobering 
experiences  heighten 
security  concerns 
regarding potential territorial concessions in the future.
Those security concerns are even greater today. Let 
us just look around. The Middle East is in chaos. States 
are  disintegrating,  and  militant  Islamists  are  filling 
the  void.  Israel  cannot  have  territories  from  which  it 
withdraws  taken  over  by  Islamic  militants  yet  again, 
as  happened  in  Gaza  and  Lebanon.  That  would  place 
the  likes  of  ISIS  within  mortar  range,  a  few  miles  of 
80  per  cent  of  our  population.  Think  about  that.  The 
distance  between  the  1967  lines  and  the  suburbs  of 
Tel  Aviv  is  similar  to  the  distance  between  United 
Nations Headquarters and Times Square. Israel is a tiny 
country.  That  is  why  in  any  peace  agreement,  which 
will  obviously  necessitate  a  territorial  compromise,  I 
will always insist that Israel be able to defend itself, by 
itself, against any threat.
Yet despite everything that has happened, some still 
do not take Israel’s security concerns seriously, but I do 
and I always will. That is because as Prime Minister of 
Israel I am entrusted with the awesome responsibility 
of  ensuring  the  future  of  the  Jewish  people  and  the 
future of the Jewish State. No matter what pressure is 
brought  to  bear,  I  will  never  waver  in  fulfilling  that 
responsibility.
I  believe  that  with  a  fresh  approach  on  the  part 
of  our  neighbours,  we  can  advance  peace  despite  the 
difficulties we face. In Israel, we have a record of making 
the impossible possible. We have made a desolate land 
flourish, and with very few natural resources we have 
used the fertile minds of our people to turn Israel into 
a  global  centre  of  technology  and  innovation.  Peace 
would enable Israel to realize its full potential and to 
bring a promising future not only to our people and not 
only to the Palestinian people, but to many, many others 
in our region. But the old template for peace must be 
updated.  It  must  take  into  account  new  realities  and 
new roles and responsibilities for our Arab neighbours.
There is a new Middle East. It presents new dangers 
but also new opportunities. Israel is prepared to work 
with Arab partners and the international community to 
confront those dangers and to seize those opportunities. 
Together,  we  must  recognize  the  global  threat  of 
militant  Islam,  the  primacy  of  dismantling  Iran’s 
nuclear weapons capability, and the indispensable role 
of Arab States in advancing peace with the Palestinians. 
All that may fly in the face of conventional wisdom, but 
it  is  the  truth.  And  the  truth  must  always  be  spoken, 
especially in the United Nations. Isaiah, a great prophet 
of peace, taught us nearly 3,000 years ago in Jerusalem 
to speak truth to power. He said:
“For the sake of Zion, I will not be silent. For the 
sake of Jerusalem, I will not be still until her justice 
shines bright and her salvation glows like a flaming 
torch”.
Let us light a torch of truth and justice to safeguard 
our common future.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of 
Public  Affairs  and  the  Diaspora  of  the  State  of  Israel 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora of the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Gunnar  Bragi  Sveinsson,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iceland.
Mr.  Sveinsson  (Iceland):  Next  year  we  will 
celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
36/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
Nations.  As  we  approach  that  milestone,  it  is  good 
to  reflect  on  the  successes  of  our  Organization:  the 
extensive  codification  of  international  law,  advances 
in  combating  poverty  and  disease,  and  fighting 
human rights abuses. We have established monitoring 
mechanisms,  such  as  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies, 
and  accountability  tools,  such  as  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  and  agreed  on  historic  policy  targets 
that  have  transformed  international  cooperation,  such 
as the Millennium Development Goals.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
These  are  not  small  achievements,  but  sitting  on 
our laurels is not an option. The system of rule-bound 
relations between nations is under threat, and we must 
protect it. Most worrying is the growing disregard for 
international  law.  This  erodes  the  international  legal 
framework we have developed since the Second World 
War. A shocking recent example is the terrorist group 
operating  in  Iraq  and  Syria,  the  self-styled  Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant. As human beings, we are 
revolted  by  its  brutality  and  appalled  by  its  mindless 
destruction.
The  international  community  cannot  accept  the 
disregard for the fundamental principles of the United 
Nations — indeed, of human decency — shown by this 
group. Iceland therefore agrees with the lawful actions 
taken to end these atrocities by countries of the region 
and from other parts of the world. Iceland will contribute 
humanitarian aid through the United Nations agencies. 
No  civilized  nation  can  look  the  other  way  when  the 
barbarism and cruelty are so overwhelming. The United 
Nations  and  international  law  must  be  centre  stage, 
and we underscore the role of the Security Council in 
maintaining international peace and security.
The  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people  and  the  total 
disrespect  for  humanitarian  law  in  that  civil  war  are 
equally  shocking.  Almost  200,000  people  have  died, 
3  million  refugees  are  abroad,  and  the  country  is  in 
ruins.  The  prolonged  foreign  occupation  of  the  State 
of  Palestine  is  another  violation  of  international  law. 
Land-grabbing  continues  unabated.  The  blockade 
of  Gaza  shows  no  signs  of  being  lifted.  Violations  of 
human  rights  continue,  including  against  freedom  of 
movement, the right to freedom of speech and assembly 
and property rights.
This  summer,  a  pointless  war  between  Israel  and 
Gaza  caused  an  unacceptable  loss  of  life.  I  condemn 
the  indiscriminate  rocket  attacks  of  Hamas  and  other 
militant organizations in Gaza against civilian targets 
in  Israel.  I  also  condemn  the  disproportionate  use  of 
force  by  the  Israel  Defense  Forces,  which  resulted  in 
more  than  2,000  deaths  in  Gaza.  Let  the  loss  of  life 
not have been in vain and let the future of Palestinian 
children  be  a  future  without  foreign  occupation.  A 
two-State  solution,  with  the  comprehensive  support 
of  neighbouring  countries  and  robust  international 
peacekeeping  arrangements,  should  be  the  objective. 
To  the  Palestinians  I  say,  “Reconcile.  Be  your  own 
best  friends  so  you  can  build  a  free  and  sovereign 
Palestine  ensuring  fundamental  rights  and  freedom 
for  all”.  To  the  Israelis,  I  say,  “The  current  situation 
is  unsustainable.  Be  brave,  be  wise  and  give  peace  a 
chance. The occupation of Palestine must end.”
The  violation  of  Ukraine’s  territorial  integrity 
breaches the Charter of the United Nations, international 
law  and  numerous  treaties.  The  illegal  annexation  of 
Crimea  threatens  security  and  stability  throughout 
Europe.  The  credibility  of  the  Security  Council  is 
seriously  undermined  when  a  permanent  member 
violates the Charter by using force to change borders, 
and then can veto the necessary response and actions 
by the body empowered to maintain international peace 
and security. The Council is also undermined when it 
proves incapable of defending civilians who are subject 
to foreign occupation or is unable to prevent the use of 
chemical weapons.
The  United  Nations  was  founded  to  ensure  that 
the fate of nations would never again be decided at the 
barrel of a gun. Recent events have shown that we must 
reaffirm our commitment to the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  other  legal  instruments  to  safeguard  the 
foundations  of  a  just  and  peaceful  world.  This  holds 
particularly  true  for  the  Security  Council.  In  its  role 
of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security, 
its  compass  should  be  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  law,  including  international 
humanitarian law and human rights law. It should apply 
the  law  equally  to  all  parties.  The  Council  needs  to 
become  more  solution-oriented  and  directly  engaged. 
Its  working  methods  must  improve,  especially  the 
application  of  the  veto.  Iceland  supports  the  recent 
French- and Mexican-led proposal for framing the veto 
in  cases  of  mass  atrocities.  The  Council  should  also 
make use of its referral power as intended by the Rome 
Statute.
14-55181
37/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
In a world riven by inequality, poverty and onflict, 
it is a challenge to chart a path towards the future we 
want.  Since  the  most  recent  general  debate,  we  have 
made  real  progress  in  preparing  for  the  decisions  to 
be taken next year on a new framework for sustainable 
development. The year ahead will be a test of our resolve 
to deliver. Iceland will participate constructively in the 
negotiations for the post-2015 agenda, as well as for a 
new regime to address climate change.
Allow me to highlight a few issues that I believe to 
be fundamental. With an increasing world population, 
measures  to  ensure  food  security  are  more  important 
than ever. For 3 billion people, seafood provides about 
20 per cent of their intake of animal protein. Nine to 12  
per cent of the global population depends on the seafood 
sector  for  their  livelihood.  Yet  we  have  a  paradox. 
Overfishing  remains  a  widespread  problem,  but  at 
the  same  time  fisheries  are  greatly  underperforming. 
With improved infrastructure and better management, 
the economic benefits from marine fisheries could be 
increased by $50 billion per year, or more than half the 
value of the global seafood trade.
It  is  clear  that  ocean  issues  are  one  of  the  keys 
to  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  provides 
a sound legal basis on which States can harness their 
marine  resources.  Iceland  remains  firmly  loyal  to 
the  Convention,  and  we  build  our  marine  policy  on 
scientific research where sustainability guides all our 
decisions. The Convention on the Law of the Sea has 
been instrumental to Iceland’s success, yet what is often 
lacking is the capacity of States to implement effective 
monitoring  and  sustainable  harvesting.  Iceland  has 
been  sharing  know-how  through  the  United  Nations 
University  Fisheries  Training  Programme  in  Iceland, 
where  over  1,500  experts  have  benefited  from  post-
graduate studies and workshops in the field.
The second key area for ensuring food security is 
land. Every decade, 120 million hectares of land — an 
area the size of South Africa — are lost to desertification 
and drought. Climate change is contributing to an ever-
faster rate of land degradation, which in turn releases 
greenhouse gases, creating a vicious circle. Switching 
to  sustainable  land  management  is  therefore  not  only 
crucial  to  food  and  water  security,  but  an  important 
factor in mitigating and adapting to climate change. This 
is why Iceland argues strongly for measures to achieve 
a  land-degradation  neutral  world.  Iceland  contributes 
actively to these efforts through the Group of Friends 
of the Secretary-General in New York and through the 
United  Nations  University  Land  Restoration  Training 
Programme in Iceland.
A third key area is to ensure access to affordable, 
reliable,  sustainable  and  modern  energy  for  all.  No 
society  can  develop  without  energy,  yet  today  over 
1.3  billion  people  have  no  access  to  electricity.  As 
energy production grows, it is essential to substantially 
increase  the  share  of  renewable  energy  in  the  global 
energy supply by 2030. Iceland is contributing to that 
effort. We have partnered with a group of countries and 
the International Renewable Energy Agency to identify 
opportunities  and  to  support  mechanisms  to  scale  up 
geothermal  production.  In  that  connection,  we  invite 
Member States to join the Global Geothermal Alliance. 
Iceland has also been working with the World Bank on 
projects in the Great African Rift Valley, and we have 
run the Geothermal Training Programme of the United 
Nations University in Iceland for 35 years.
In  Iceland  and  the  other  Nordic  countries,  the 
revolution in women’s education and the high level of 
female  participation  in  the  labour  market  have  been 
the  basis  of  our  welfare  and  economic  prosperity. 
Without  the  full  and  equal  participation  of  women  in 
all spheres of society, including in decision-making, it 
will  be  impossible  to  make  real  and  lasting  progress 
in  addressing  sustainable  development  challenges. 
The stand-alone goal on gender equality and women’s 
empowerment  agreed  in  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  must  be  maintained. 
But we should not stop there. Gender equality must be 
further mainstreamed throughout the new framework. 
In  that  regard,  I  cannot  leave  out  the  centrality  of 
ensuring sexual and reproductive health and rights.
to 
for 
the 
fight 
We  must  continue 
full 
implementation  of  the  commitments  we  made  almost 
20 years ago in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for 
Action. Iceland is proud to support UN-Women in the 
campaign to celebrate Beijing+20. We have partnered 
with  Suriname  to  lead  a  friends’  group  of  countries 
to  galvanize  support  to  promote  gender  equality  and 
to  commemorate  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Declaration.  We  call  on  Member  States  to  join  that 
effort and take concrete actions on the 12 themes of the 
Platform for Action.
For our part, we want to bring men and boys to the 
table on gender equality in a positive way. Iceland and 
Suriname  will  convene  a  “barbershop”  conference  in 
38/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
January 2015, where men will discuss gender equality 
with  other  men,  with  a  special  focus  on  addressing 
violence  against  women.  That  will  be  a  unique 
conference,  as  it  will  be  the  first  time  at  the  United 
Nations  that  we  bring  together  only  male  leaders  to 
discuss gender equality. It will provide an exceptional 
contribution  to  the  Beijing+20  conference  and  the 
HeForShe campaigns.
We  have  been  reminded  in  recent  weeks  of  the 
fragility of human beings and the need for us to work 
together on the biggest threats to humankind. Let me 
express our sympathy for and solidarity with the States 
suffering from the Ebola outbreak. The Government of 
Iceland will join in the international effort to curb the 
outbreak with financial contributions to United Nations 
agencies.
Next year, the States Members of the United Nations 
will  come  together  to  make  important  decisions  on 
how to address climate change and pursue sustainable 
development.  In  the  North,  Arctic  biodiversity  and 
ecosystems  are  threatened  by  climate  change,  and 
sustainable  harvesting  of  natural  resources  is  vital.  I 
pledge Iceland’s commitment to work for bold decisions 
on the future of our planet and the increased prosperity 
of the world community in the year 2015. May the wise 
words of Nelson Mandela come true as we navigate that 
path: “It always seems impossible until it’s done.”
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Phandu Skelemani, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
International Cooperation of the Republic of Botswana.
Mr. Skelemani (Botswana): It is a singular honour 
and  privilege  for  me  to  address  this  gathering  of  the 
international  community.  Allow  me,  on  behalf  of  His 
Excellency the President of the Republic of Botswana, 
Lieutenant  General  Seretse  Khama  Ian  Khama,  to 
join  other  delegations  in  extending  our  warmest 
congratulations to the President on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. We are confident that his vast experience and 
dedicated  service  to  the  Government  and  people  of 
Uganda will contribute significantly to the successful 
conclusion of this session. My delegation and I wish him 
every success as he embarks on this new responsibility 
of  steering  the  work  of  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General Assembly. We also extend fitting tribute to his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  John  Ashe, 
for his sterling leadership of the sixty-eighth session of 
the General Assembly. We commend him for his tireless 
efforts to overcome many of the challenges confronting 
the international community today.
My delegation welcomes the theme that the President 
has  chosen  for  the  current  general  debate,  namely, 
“Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015  development  agenda”.  We  consider  it  both 
pertinent  and  timely,  especially  as  it  coincides  with 
ongoing efforts by Member States to formulate a new 
global development agenda to succeed the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). We shall tirelessly work 
with  the  President  and  the  international  community 
as  we  define  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The 
priorities that the President has laid out for this session 
of the Assembly, that is, the issues of climate change, 
poverty  eradication,  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
gender equality, the rule of law and international peace 
and security, are among the most critical and central to 
the success and sustainability of a global development 
agenda.
As  we  draw  the  curtain  on  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, it is important that we reflect on 
our successes and failures in order to draw vital lessons 
from  our  experience.  The  global  community,  most 
notably in the developing world, has faced significant 
challenges  in  fully  realizing  the  MDGs.  That  has 
resulted  in  many  of  our  countries  failing  to  deliver 
tangible development achievements to their citizens, as 
cogently set out in the MDGs, despite their best efforts 
and  intentions.  We  continue  to  witness  intolerable 
levels  of  poverty,  disease,  economic  stagnation  and 
environmental degradation, as well as other drawbacks, 
precipitated in large part by natural disasters and severe 
resource and capacity constraints.
While Botswana has made impressive gains in the 
implementation of the MDGs, it has not been without 
enormous challenges, chief among which were resource 
and capacity constraints. The Botswana Government has 
strived to achieve the MDGs and improve the quality of 
life of its citizens by allocating a substantial percentage 
of  the  national  budget  to  the  sectors  with  significant 
bearing  on 
including 
education,  health,  infrastructure,  the  development  of 
human  capital,  and  women  and  youth  empowerment. 
Botswana  continues  to  make  every  effort,  in  the 
remaining time before the target 2015 completion date, 
to  finish  the  unfinished  business  remaining  from  the 
MDGs, especially Goals 4 and 5, relating to infant and 
maternal mortality.
the  country’s  development, 
14-55181
39/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
The  outbreak  of  the  deadly  Ebola  virus  disease, 
evolving, as it did, into a public health catastrophe, is 
a serious setback to the achievement of the MDGs. We 
therefore implore the Assembly to call on all partners 
and  organizations  of  goodwill  to  spare  no  effort  in 
rescuing the West African region from that scourge.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development of 2012 mapped a clear and strategic path 
for the achievement of global sustainable development, 
calling for an inclusive and transformative agenda that 
integrates the three pillars of sustainable development, 
namely, economic, social and environmental protection.
Botswana  has  keenly  followed  the  work  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  which  has  had  as  its  primary  objective  the 
formulation  of  a  single,  transformative  and  global 
development  agenda,  as  mandated  by  the  Rio+20 
outcome  document.  We  are  highly  encouraged  by 
the  spirit  of  consultation  and  the  collective  will  and 
commitment of the international community to craft an 
ambitious yet inclusive, measurable and sustainable set 
of goals, which should inspire and challenge us all to 
excel in our quest for the attainment of the future we 
want. I commend the co-Chairs of the Open Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for  their 
exceptional  performance  in  driving  the  negotiation 
process  to  its  logical  conclusion.  We  look  forward  to 
the intergovernmental negotiations on the broader post-
2015 development framework, which will begin during 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure  the 
Assembly  of  our  fullest  cooperation  and  constructive 
engagement in those deliberations.
My  delegation  will  actively  participate  in  all 
deliberations on the key development priorities outlined 
by the Secretary-General, in particular the elaboration 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  However,  there 
are issues of major strategic importance to Botswana. 
They  include  climate  change,  landlocked  developing 
countries,  middle-income  countries,  countries 
in 
special situations and issues of peace and security and 
the advancement of human rights.
On climate change, Botswana knows only too well 
the  devastating  effects  of  that  phenomenon,  which 
continues to cause extreme temperatures, changes in the 
patterns  of  rainfall,  land  degradation,  desertification 
and  persistent  droughts.  In  that  regard,  we  believe 
that  addressing  those  problems  should  be  a  primary 
consideration in the current deliberations on the post-
2015  sustainable  development  agenda.  We  therefore 
look forward to the twentieth Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Lima  this  year,  which 
is supposed to lay the foundation for a legally binding 
agreement  for  adoption  at  the  next  Conference  of  the 
Parties  in  Paris.  We  commend  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  initiative  in  convening  the  recently  concluded 
Climate  Change  Summit,  which  successfully  injected 
much-needed  political  momentum  into  the  process  as 
we move towards 2015.
As  a  middle-income, 
landlocked  developing 
country with particular vulnerabilities, we also strongly 
hope  for  a  comprehensive  account  of  those  issues  in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  welcome  the 
10-year  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action, 
to be held in November in Vienna, which will broadly 
consider  effective  mechanisms  for  addressing  the 
vulnerabilities of landlocked developing countries. We 
hope that, during the review, special attention will also 
be  given  to  countries  with  ever-increasing  elephant 
populations,  whose  numbers  not  only  give  rise  to 
serious animal-human conflict, but also devastate the 
very environment that the elephants depend on for their 
survival. Botswana has the largest elephant population 
in Africa.
On issues of social development, I am delighted to 
inform the Assembly that Botswana is making steady 
progress  in  eradicating  abject  poverty,  as  a  result  of 
the implementation of the national poverty eradication 
strategy  that  was  launched  in  2010.  Furthermore,  we 
have been able to achieve universal primary education 
and  access  to  HIV/AIDS  treatment,  care  and  support 
services. However, challenges remain on the issues of 
maintaining quality in education and general services.
and 
capacity-building must invariably be factored into the 
post-2015  development  agenda  discussions.  Failing 
that,  our  efforts  towards  poverty  eradication  and 
sustainable  development  will  be  rendered  futile.  We 
keenly  await  the  adoption  of  the  new  development 
agenda,  which  will,  we  trust,  support  our  individual 
and collective efforts to deliver our shared aspirations 
of a safe, secure and prosperous world for both present 
and future generations.
technology 
Financial 
support, 
transfer 
to 
Threats 
international  peace  and  security 
continue to be among the greatest challenges to human 
development. Botswana is gravely concerned about the 
40/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
increasing  trend  of  instability,  insecurity  and  violent 
conflict in various parts of the world. We are currently 
witnessing  unimaginable  levels  of  human  suffering, 
with  thousands  of  innocent  lives  being  lost  and  the 
world hurtling precipitously towards calamitous levels 
of humanitarian crises.
The  Palestine/Israel  conflict  and  the  protracted 
brutal war in Syria defy human imagination. In Africa, 
the  frequent  eruption  of  violent  conflicts  in  certain 
parts of our continent, now particularly in South Sudan 
and  the  Central  African  Republic,  are  distressing. 
Regrettably,  Iraq  is  also  under  siege  by  the  Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  and  the  Nusra  Front. 
Those  terrorist  groups  threaten  not  only  the  stability 
and security of the Middle East, but the maintenance of 
international peace and security at large.
Not only are we failing as nation States to exercise 
our duty and responsibility to protect populations from 
war crimes and crimes against humanity, we in effect 
inadvertently  acquiesce  in  the  annihilation  of  future 
generations. Last June, Botswana and the Netherlands 
co-hosted  the  fourth  meeting  of  the  Global  Network 
of Focal Points on the Responsibility to Protect, in an 
effort to further consolidate that fundamental principle, 
which promotes our individual and collective sense of 
responsibility towards our citizens.
While  such  efforts  may  be  effective  in  terms  of 
awareness-raising, swift and decisive action remains the 
domain of the Security Council. It is therefore incumbent 
upon members of the Security Council to demonstrate 
exemplary  leadership  and  a  genuine  regard  for  their 
Charter responsibilities to maintain international peace 
and security, as mandated by Article 24 of the Charter. 
Botswana  is  deeply  disappointed  and  concerned  that 
some  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
consistently thwart any efforts to find lasting solutions 
to  conflict  situations.  Surely,  responsible  members  of 
the  international  community  would  not,  and  should 
not,  abdicate  their  solemn  responsibility  and  allow 
the  Council  to  be  seemingly  impelled  into  a  state  of 
grim paralysis as the world burns towards extinction. 
Just this past May, the Council failed to adopt a draft 
resolution seeking to refer the situation in Syria to the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Needless  to  say, 
that  was  nothing  short  of  a  travesty  of  international 
criminal justice.
Botswana’s commitment to an effective international 
criminal  justice  system  remains  steadfast.  To  that 
end,  we  continue  to  support  the  independence  and 
credibility of the ICC as the only existing international 
judicial mechanism available for the investigation and 
prosecution  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  the  crime  of  aggression.  However,  the 
role of the Security Council in facilitating the work of 
the  ICC  cannot  be  over-emphasized.  It  is  our  sincere 
hope  that,  going  forward,  reason  and  basic  human 
compassion  will  prevail  in  Council  decisions  aimed 
at  eliminating  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security  and  at  fostering  a  global  culture  of  judicial 
accountability,  inclusive  governance,  the  rule  of  law 
and respect for human rights. In that regard, Botswana 
welcomes  the  French  initiative  regarding  voluntary 
restraint  on  the  use  of  the  veto  by  the  permanent 
members of the Security Council in situations of mass 
atrocities.
Botswana also commends those countries, human 
rights  defenders  and  humanitarian  organizations  that 
have valiantly contributed to efforts to relieve human 
suffering  wherever  it  occurred  around  the  world.  We 
especially  applaud  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  unwavering  commitment  to  the  pursuit  of 
international peace and security, including addressing 
the  plight  of  vulnerable  groups  in  society,  such  as 
women and children.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  and  reaffirming 
Botswana’s  commitment  to  the  principles  and  ideals 
of the United Nations as enshrined in the Charter. We 
remain  steadfast  and  resolute  in  our  obligation  as  a 
member of the international community to contribute, 
in  our  own  small  way,  to  the  creation  of  a  peaceful, 
secure and prosperous world for all.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Wunna Maung Lwin, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Mr.  Wunna  Maung  Lwin  (Myanmar):  We  are 
gathered  here  at  a  time  when  the  world  is  facing 
pressing  global  challenges  and  security  threats  that 
must be addressed collectively and with urgency. Our 
planet  is  heating  up  owing  to  the  clear  and  imminent 
danger of climate change. Terrorism is rearing its ugly 
head once again. The global village is gripped with fear 
of the spreading Ebola epidemic. Tension and mistrust 
are building up among the major Powers, reminiscent 
of the rivalry of the Cold War. The number and scale 
of regional and local conflicts is growing in some parts 
14-55181
41/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
of  the  world.  One  billion  people  are  still  trapped  in 
poverty. The world we want is still a distant dream.
climate  protection 
Climate  change  is  no  longer  merely  an  issue  for 
scientific argument; it is one of survival that requires our 
urgent action. Many developing countries economically 
dependent on agriculture, as well as small island States, 
will  bear  the  brunt  of  its  impact.  It  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  that  we  agree  a  new  global  commitment 
on 
emissions-reduction 
objectives.  My  delegation  is  therefore  thankful  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  organizing  the 
Climate Summit 2014, whose message that urgent and 
united action is needed was loud and clear. Myanmar 
will  continue  to  work  together  with  the  international 
community towards a meaningful, implementable and 
universal climate agreement in Paris in 2015.
and 
In  support  of  the  vision  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  a  transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda,  we  must  intensify  our  efforts  at 
this session to set the world on the path to sustainable 
development in its economic, social and environmental 
dimensions. In that process, we must also work together 
to find effective means for implementation, including 
the mobilization of financial and technological support, 
in order to ensure the success of the new agenda and the 
sustainable development goals.
The  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa,  with  its 
unprecedented nature and scope, is alarming. We must 
not see that outbreak as unique to one particular people 
or place. It is a common challenge to all of humankind. 
Myanmar  welcomes  the  swift  and  timely  response  by 
the  Secretary-General  in  proactively  establishing  the 
United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response.
Terrorism  cannot  be  condoned  for  any  reason 
or  under  any  circumstances.  Ruthless  killings  and 
atrocities in the name of religion must not be tolerated. 
Myanmar has always opposed terrorism in all its forms 
and  manifestations.  We  are  not  oblivious  to  the  fate 
of  those  who  have  fallen  victims  to  terrorism.  The 
international  community  must  be  united  to  eliminate 
those  horrible  crimes.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
fully supports the statement issued by the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Foreign Ministers 
a few days ago here in New York.
Myanmar firmly believes in the continued relevance 
and legitimacy of the United Nations in world affairs. 
We will continue to actively cooperate with it, in line 
with the principles of our foreign policy. Thanks to the 
positive changes in Myanmar, the cooperation between 
Myanmar  and  the  United  Nations  is  now  better  than 
ever. The United Nations and its agencies are showing 
greater interest in Myanmar, extending a helping hand 
to the people of Myanmar in all aspects of their lives. 
The Government, for its part, is facilitating the effective 
implementation of the United Nations missions.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security  is  one  of  the  main  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations.  Myanmar,  as  a  peace-loving  nation,  abhors 
weapons of mass destruction and is fully cognizant of 
the danger of nuclear weapons. To that end, Myanmar 
has annually submitted, since 1995, a draft resolution 
on  nuclear  disarmament.  We  will  do  so  once  again 
at  the  present  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
encourage  all  Member  States  to  positively  support 
our draft resolution. If we follow the road map in the 
resolution with a strong political will, a world free of 
nuclear weapons will be within our grasp soon.
I would like to inform the Assembly that Myanmar 
is  making  domestic  preparations  with  a  view  to 
ratifying major international disarmament instruments. 
Considerable  achievements  have  been  made  in  that 
process. I am pleased to announce that the Pyidaungsu 
Hluttaw,  our  Union  Parliament,  has  just  approved 
Myanmar’s  accession 
the  Biological  Weapons 
Convention.
to 
The winds of change have blown across Myanmar 
over  the  past  three  years.  The  scope  and  pace  of 
positive changes in Myanmar have earned remarkable 
recognition and encouragement from the international 
community. Those changes have contributed to raising 
Myanmar’s  profile  in  the  regional  and  international 
arena. On the regional stage, Myanmar held the Chair 
of  the  Bay  of  Bengal  Initiative  for  Multi-Sectoral 
Technical and Economic Cooperation until March this 
year. After successfully carrying out that responsibility, 
we are now shouldering the prestigious responsibility of 
chairing ASEAN. Under our chairmanship, ASEAN is 
exerting its efforts to speed up the ASEAN community-
building process with the theme of “Moving forward in 
unity to a peaceful and prosperous community”.
Myanmar is advancing well on the path of peaceful 
democratic  transition,  which  began  over  three  years 
ago  by  setting  in  motion  various  waves  of  political 
and  economic  reforms.  The  first  wave  was 
the 
peaceful  transformation  from  a  military  Government 
to a multiparty democratic system, where all political 
42/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
forces  are  working  together  to  overcome  differences 
through dialogue in our two houses of Parliament. An 
all-inclusive  political  system  has  been  established, 
bringing  in  all  stakeholders  in  the  process  through 
national  reconciliation.  The  first  wave  of  reform 
brought  about  national  reconciliation,  the  granting  of 
a  series  of  amnesties,  the  creation  of  greater  political 
space,  freedom  of  the  media,  freedom  of  expression, 
and  freedom  of  association  and  peaceful  assembly.  It 
was followed by the second wave of reform, unleashing 
an  array  of  political,  economic,  administrative  and 
private  sector  development  reforms.  Now,  the  third 
wave of reform has been launched, which aims at laying 
down a firm foundation for a new democratic State and 
delivering  benefits  to  the  people  by  fulfilling  their 
socioeconomic  needs.  We  are  determined  to  keep  the 
reforms on track through ensuring peace, stability and 
national reconciliation.
Since our democracy is still in its infancy, we are 
facing  a  multitude  of  daunting  challenges,  like  other 
countries in transition. The Government has a long to-
do list despite its limited capacity. We are determined to 
overcome the challenges and we are convinced that we 
will achieve our objectives. We need the international 
community’s  understanding  and  continued  support  in 
our  efforts  for  economic  development  and  capacity-
building  to  lay  a  solid  foundation  for  a  democratic 
society.
One  of  the  issues  that  attracts  domestic  and 
international  attention  is  the  process  of  amending 
Myanmar’s  present  Constitution.  In 
that  regard, 
the  Pyidaungsu  Hluttaw  set  up  the  Constitutional 
Amendment  Review  Joint  Committee  in  July  last 
year.  Further,  after 
suggestions  and 
recommendations from the general public and political 
parties, the Constitutional Amendment Implementation 
Committee  was  formed  to  address  the  issues  of 
constitutional  amendment  based  on  the  suggestions 
received.
soliciting 
into  practice, 
Putting  democratic  values 
the 
Government  is  placing  much  more  emphasis  and 
consideration on the aspirations of our people as a whole. 
Accordingly, we are laying foundations to successfully 
conduct  an  independent,  free  and  fair  election  within 
a  legal  framework  that  does  not  compromise  national 
sovereignty. In that context, Myanmar recently received 
the visit of a needs assessment mission from the United 
Nations.  All  existing  political  parties  are  expected  to 
take  part  in  the  elections.  The  final  decision  will  be 
made by the people on election day.
Peace  and  stability  are  prerequisites  for  political 
stability  and  for  the  socioeconomic  development  of 
the  country.  Strengthening  national  reconciliation  is 
an integral part of our reform process. We are working 
together with all ethnic armed groups in good faith to 
reach a nationwide ceasefire agreement. So far we have 
already reached such an agreement with 14 out of the 16 
groups. We are now working on a draft framework for 
political dialogue that will pave the way for bringing an 
end to the six-decade long conflict.
The  Government  is  serious  in  its  commitment  to 
the success of the peace process. It is open to discussing 
all issues, except those that could undermine the unity 
and sovereignty of the State. The political dialogue will 
also become a historic forum for discussion of all issues 
of national concern. We are confident that we are now 
getting closer to achieving a comprehensive and lasting 
peace.
There  has  been  steady  progress  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  in  my  country.  A 
series  of  presidential  amnesties  have  been  granted, 
which  creates  an  enabling  environment  for  everyone 
to participate in the parliament, political parties, civil 
society  organizations  and  labour  organizations.  The 
Myanmar National Human Rights Commission, which 
was  first  established  in  2011,  was  reconstituted  very 
recently with a view to functioning as an independent 
entity.  Many  complaint  mechanisms,  including  the 
Commission,  have  been  made  available  to  citizens  so 
that they can file complaints in the event of violation 
of their rights.
In this new era, press and media freedom is one of 
the most visible outcomes of the reforms. In contributing 
to the all-inclusive reform process, the media is getting 
more space now. The abolishment of decades-old press 
censorship,  the  publishing  of  a  multitude  of  private 
newspapers  and  journals  and  the  enactment  of  a  new 
media  law  are  among  the  significant  achievements  in 
our media landscape.
With  firm  resolve,  Myanmar  is  now  combating 
human  trafficking,  preventing  gender  violence  and 
protecting children. Sexual violence is a crime strongly 
abhorred in our traditional values and national culture. 
It  is  strictly  forbidden  by  law.  At  the  global  summit 
in  London  in  June  this  year,  Myanmar  joined  the 
Declaration  of  Commitment  to  End  Sexual  Violence 
14-55181
43/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
in  Conflict.  Its  signing  of  the  Declaration  reflects 
the  country’s  State  policy  of  zero  tolerance  for  use 
of  rape  or  sexual  violence  as  a  weapon  of  war.  The 
Armed  Forces  of  Myanmar  are  making  important 
progress  in  its  implementation  of  the  action  plan  to 
end the recruitment of child soldiers in Myanmar. Due 
to  our  strong  commitment,  there  is  no  new  underage 
recruitment, unwittingly or otherwise.
All  major  human  rights  concerns  have  been 
addressed to a larger extent in the new Myanmar than 
before.  We  have  now  reached  the  middle  tier  of  the 
human  rights  ladder.  That  progress  is  contributing  to 
the better enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms by the people of Myanmar. Therefore, we are 
now  fully  convinced  that  Myanmar  should  no  longer 
remain  on  the  agendas  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and the Third Committee of the General Assembly.
We are also paying great attention to and making 
efforts to address the issue of the communal violence 
that  had  occurred  between  the  two  communities  in 
Rakhine  state.  The  history,  diversity  and  complexity 
of  the  issue  must  be  fully  understood  before  jumping 
to  conclusions.  The  situation  should  not  be  looked  at 
in a superficial manner. The international community 
should  contribute  pragmatically  and  objectively  to 
finding  a  durable  solution.  In  addressing  the  root 
cause,  we  are  working  for  peace,  stability,  harmony 
and  development  for  all  the  people  in  Rakhine  state. 
An  action  plan  is  being  finalized  and  will  soon  be 
launched.  Once  in  place,  it  will  be  implemented  in  a 
systematic and timely manner.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  international 
partners for contributing to our efforts to address the 
current  needs  of  the  affected  people.  As  development 
is  one  of  the  main  challenges  in  Rakhine  state,  I 
would also like to invite the international community, 
particularly  the  United  Nations,  to  provide  much-
needed development assistance there.
The Government of Myanmar has been focusing on 
poverty  reduction  and  rural  development  with  a  view 
to lifting the living standards of rural and urban people 
alike. We are striving to realize the structural changes 
from  an  agriculture-based  economy  to  an  industrial 
one. As those efforts become increasingly crystallized, 
we  have  been  enjoying  steady  economic  growth.  We 
have  achieved  a  growth  rate  in  our  gross  domestic 
product of 5.6 per cent, 7.3 per cent and 8.7 per cent in 
the past three years, respectively.
That  encouraging  trend  in  economic  growth  and 
overall progress in our reform process has made us take 
an important decision. Taking this opportunity, I would 
like to announce that Myanmar is fully determined and 
has initiated the internal process to graduate from its 
least  developed  country  (LDC)  status.  In  that  regard, 
President  U  Thein  Sein  has  communicated  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  our  intention 
and  determination  to  graduate  from  LDC  status.  A 
high-level  national  committee  and  subcommittees  are 
actively  coordinating  domestic  measures,  including 
a  transition  strategy,  for  our  graduation.  We  are  now 
working  closely  with  the  relevant  United  Nations 
agencies for technical and necessary assistance.
Myanmar has made tremendous progress over the 
past three and a half years, since it began wide-ranging 
reforms in transition to democracy. Myanmar’s success 
in peaceful transformation was even lauded as a model 
in  the  world  today.  Despite  all  those  achievements, 
there remain many challenges and hurdles on our path 
to democracy and development. We are fully aware of 
those daunting challenges. We will not be complacent. 
We  are  resolute  and  determined  to  continue  our 
unrelenting efforts aimed at reform and the building of 
a democratic State.
Myanmar  is  changing,  and  changing  in  the  right 
direction.  We  are  laying  a  solid  foundation  for  a 
democratic State in which we can live in harmony, peace 
and prosperity. Developments in Myanmar should also 
be viewed in a more balanced and objective manner. It 
is the primary responsibility of the people of Myanmar 
to  realize  their  long-held  aspirations  for  democracy, 
peace  and  prosperity.  The  continued  support  and 
understanding  of  the  international  community  would 
contribute  positively  to  Myanmar’s  reform  process. 
Rome was not built in a day.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Albert  del  Rosario,  Secretary  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
Mr.  Del  Rosario  (Philippines):  On  behalf  of 
the  Philippine  Government,  we  offer  our  warmest 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Kutesa  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.  I  assure  him  of  the  Philippines’  steadfast 
support  as  he  provides  the  leadership  and  inspiration 
in  the  daunting  task  of  continuing  the  pursuit  of  a 
transformative  and  inclusive  post-2015  development 
agenda.  In  choosing  the  theme  for  his  presidency,  he 
44/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
has positioned people at the centre of this development 
agenda. This people-centred agenda is also at the core 
of  President  Benigno  S.  Aquino  III’s  Social  Contract 
with  the  Filipino  People,  which  is  underpinned  by  a 
regime of good governance.
I would like to address the following issues, which 
are consistent with both the President’s Social Contract 
and the United Nations post-2015 development agenda: 
progress on the Millennium Development Goals; climate 
change  and  disaster-risk  reduction  and  management; 
the  so-called  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham;  the 
Ebola  virus  disease  outbreak;  peace,  security  and  the 
rule  of  law;  disarmament,  peacekeeping,  migration, 
the protection of women and children; and the call for 
United Nations reforms.
Fourteen years ago, a shared vision of a decent and 
secure  life  for  all  our  peoples  motivated  us  to  adopt 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  all  vowed  to 
undertake a mission to fight poverty and disease; grant 
children  of  school  age  access  to  primary  education; 
improve gender equality, care for mothers and children; 
provide  our  communities  with  safe  drinking  water; 
protect  our  environment  from  further  degradation; 
and mobilize international partnerships and resources 
to help those in great need. Today, based on the latest 
report  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  our 
collective  efforts  have  reduced  by  half  the  number  of 
people living in extreme poverty, provided over 2 billion 
people with access to safe drinking water, and achieved 
success  in  the  fight  against  malaria  and  tuberculosis. 
But, with one year to go, much remains to be done.
The Philippines’ scorecard shows that we have made 
considerable progress in the areas of extreme poverty 
eradication,  under  age  5  mortality,  the  fight  against 
both malaria and tuberculosis, access to safe drinking 
water, and gender equality. Like many other developing 
nations,  however,  we  continue  to  face  challenges  in 
other areas. We have recently taken pause to consider 
new strategies. We have also realized the importance of 
strengthening good-quality data collection and analysis 
as a tool for measuring our Millennium Development 
Goals and to aid our decision-making.
A  year  ago,  before  this  very  same  Assembly,  the 
Philippines called for a post-2015 development agenda 
anchored  in  respect  and  promotion  of  human  rights, 
accountable  governance  and  inclusive  development 
(see  A/68/PV.22).  All  our  current  national  efforts  are 
founded on these pillars.
The  greatest  challenge  to  the  Philippines  in 
meeting the Millennium Development Goals has been 
the  series  of  disasters  that  have  visited  our  country. 
Super-typhoon  Haiyan,  the  strongest  typhoon  to  have 
hit landfall in recorded history, had a significant impact 
on  the  modest  progress  we  had  achieved  towards  the 
Millennium Development Goals. This and the disasters 
in other parts of the world remind us of the urgent need 
to address climate change.
Two  months  ago,  we  completed  a  comprehensive 
rehabilitation and recovery plan for the Haiyan-affected 
areas. The comprehensive plan requires a considerable 
amount  of  resources  and  effort,  but  the  Philippines 
and  its  international  partners  are  determined  to  see 
this  massive  rebuilding  and  rehabilitation  plan  to  full 
completion. We are resolute in not only building back, 
but  building  back  better.  Once  again,  let  me  reiterate 
the  Filipino  people’s  gratitude  for  the  outpouring 
of  assistance  from  the  international  community  for 
the  victims  and  survivors  of  Haiyan.  Its  response 
and  solidarity  were  indeed  timely,  overwhelming 
and  inspiring.  At  this  time,  we  look  forward  to  the 
forthcoming Third World Conference on Disaster Risk 
Reduction in Sendai, Japan, and to the first-ever World 
Humanitarian  Summit  in  Istanbul,  Turkey,  during 
which  we  hope  to  share  the  lessons  we  have  learned 
from Haiyan.
Just  as  the  international  community  mobilized 
as  one  in  extending  help  to  the  Philippines  in  the 
aftermath of Haiyan, it should also do so in the case of 
two  present-day  scourges:  the  so-called  Islamic  State 
in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS) and the Ebola virus disease 
outbreak.  The  Philippines  condemns  the  war  crimes 
and crimes against humanity being perpetrated by ISIS. 
We support Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) on 
foreign  terrorist  fighters,  adopted  on  24  September, 
because we believe that resolute and immediate action 
is  necessary  to  suppress  that  group.  As  a  responsible 
member of the international community, the Philippines 
will do its part in the global efforts to thwart ISIS and 
its false ideologies.
On the Ebola virus disease outbreak, the Philippines 
recognizes its threat to global health and its impact on 
development.  Based  on  our  capacity,  we  will  support 
the  international  community’s  efforts  in  arresting  the 
spread of this scourge through the auspices of the World 
Health Organization.
14-55181
45/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
Development  efforts  are  jeopardized  by  setbacks 
brought about by threats to peace, security and the rule 
of law. We must ensure that conflicts do not undermine 
any  development  agenda  that  we  pursue.  We  must 
rededicate ourselves to the principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations and relevant international 
conventions  and  agreements  to  resolve  all  conflicts 
peacefully and in accordance with the rule of law.
in 
in  building  peace 
In this spirit, I am pleased to share the Philippine 
experience 
the  southern 
Philippines.  With  the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive 
Agreement  on  the  Bangsamoro,  we  are  optimistic 
that peace dividends in the form of investments, jobs, 
economic  opportunities,  access  to  basic  services  and 
infrastructure  will  finally  redound  to  the  benefit  of 
our  Muslim  brothers  and  sisters.  We  are  grateful  to 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
for  their  role  in  supporting  us  through  the  long  and 
challenging journey of this peace process.
As we herald these achievements of peace at home, 
however, we face the reality of exacerbating tensions in 
our regional seas. Again, the Philippines has resorted 
to  the  rule  of  law  in  trying  to  resolve  these  tensions. 
The  Philippines  believes  that  the  core  instrument  for 
resolving maritime disputes is the 1982 United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). We have 
invited  a  State  party  to  settle  our  maritime  disputes 
peacefully through UNCLOS, including its provisions 
on  dispute  settlement,  specifically  arbitration  under 
annex VII to the Convention.
However, it has refused to join us and has continued 
to  unilaterally  embark  on  an  expansionist  claim  that 
violates  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Philippines  and 
other littoral neighbours under UNCLOS, such as their 
exclusive  economic  zones  and  continental  shelves. 
Instead  of  peacefully  resolving  the  maritime  disputes 
within  the  framework  of  UNCLOS,  the  said  State 
has  embarked  on  a  series  of  dangerous,  reckless  and 
forceful  activities  in  an  attempt  to  impose  unilateral 
change in the maritime status quo of the South China 
Sea.  Those  unilateral  activities  escalated  the  tensions 
and threatened peace and stability in the South China 
Sea.
In 2012, after forcibly occupying the tiny rocks of 
Scarborough  Shoal,  within  126  nautical  miles  of  the 
Philippine  island  of  Luzon,  the  aforementioned  State 
refused to abide by a mutual agreement to de-escalate 
tensions  by  not  withdrawing  its  vessels  from  the  said 
rocks. Earlier this year, said State imposed a unilateral 
moratorium  on  fishing  in  some  areas  of  the  South 
China  Sea  that  infringes  on  the  legitimate  sovereign 
rights  of  the  Philippines  and  other  coastal  States  to 
their exclusive economic zones. In the past two years, 
it has undertaken massive land reclamation activities in 
Johnson Reef, Mckennan Reef, Hughes Reef, Cuarteron 
Reef and Gaven Reef in the Spratly Islands.
Those unilateral activities, among others, form part 
of a pattern of forcing a change in the maritime status 
quo  in  order  to  advance  a  so-called  nine-dash  line 
position, an expansive claim of indisputable sovereignty 
over  nearly  the  entire  South  China  Sea,  which  is  in 
contravention of both the 2002 China and Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  Declaration  on 
the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and the 
UNCLOS.  The  Philippines  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  call  for  States  parties  to  clearly  define  and 
publicize the limits of their respective maritime zones 
so  that  parties  will  have  greater  certainty  concerning 
their maritime spaces.
UNCLOS  provides  a  viable  mechanism 
for 
resolving  conflicts,  inter  alia  through  arbitration. 
Arbitration is an open, friendly and durable mechanism 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  maritime  disputes. 
Arbitration,  in  defining  maritime  entitlements,  is 
intended  to  benefit  all.  Therefore,  the  Philippines  is 
more determined than ever in its pursuit of all possible 
means under international law to keep the conflict from 
escalating  and  undermining  regional  peace,  security, 
and stability.
At  the  47th  meeting  of  the  Ministers  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  ASEAN,  in  Nay  Pyi  Taw,  the  Philippines 
proposed  the  triple  action  plan  to  reduce  tensions. 
Our  triple  action  plan  proposal  contains  immediate, 
intermediate  and  final  approaches  to  address  the 
provocative  and  destabilizing  activities  in  the  South 
China  Sea.  It 
is  a  positive,  comprehensive  and 
constructive  framework  that  brings  together  various 
initiatives that the Philippines and other countries have 
been advocating on the issue of the South China Sea for 
several years.
As  an  immediate  approach,  the  triple  action  plan 
calls for the cessation of specific activities that escalate 
tensions  in  the  region,  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of 
the  2002  ASEAN-China  Declaration  on  the  Conduct 
of  Parties  in  the  South  China  Sea.  Paragraph  5  calls 
for,  first,  self-restraint;  secondly,  no  inhabitation  of 
uninhabited  features,  including  massive  reclamation; 
and thirdly, the handling of differences in a constructive 
46/48 
14-55181
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.17
manner.  For  the  intermediate  approach  to  managing 
tensions until a final resolution is achieved, the triple 
action plan highlights the need for the full and effective 
implementation of the Declaration and the expeditious 
conclusion of a code of conduct. As a final approach, the 
triple action plan underscores the need for a settlement 
mechanism to bring the disputes to a final and enduring 
resolution anchored in international law.
The  Philippines  is  pursuing  such  a  resolution 
through  arbitration  and  believes  that  the  arbitration 
decision will clarify maritime entitlements and will pave 
the way for the full resolution of the maritime disputes 
in  the  South  China  Sea.  Those  approaches  under  the 
triple  action  plan  can  be  pursued  simultaneously,  and 
they do not prejudice territorial claims. We enjoin all to 
be united in addressing the challenge of resolving this 
issue in accordance with the rule of law.
the  Philippines 
On  disarmament, 
is  deeply 
concerned  about  the  threat  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  from  the  Middle  East  to  the  Korean 
peninsula.  The  Philippines  has  remained  firm  in 
its  position  on  the  total  and  complete  elimination 
of  nuclear,  biological  and  chemical  weapons.  The 
Philippines  strongly  believes  that  the  conference  on 
the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear 
weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
should be convened as soon as possible. The Six-Party 
Talks on the Korean peninsula should restart. We need 
a  successful  outcome  to  the  2015  Review  Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons to ensure the credibility of the Treaty.
The  Philippines  strongly  supports  the  ongoing 
discourse on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear 
weapons  that  has  been  gaining  ground  within  and 
outside  the  United  Nations.  We  will  continue  to  lend 
our voice to calls for nuclear disarmament until we have 
reached  the  goal  of  global  zero.  The  Philippines  also 
deplores the use of landmines and improvised explosive 
devices  and  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  which,  unfortunately,  still  continue  around 
the world.
United Nations peacekeeping missions are crucial 
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  Philippines, 
through  its  continuous  participation  in  peacekeeping 
missions,  has  shown  its  steadfast  commitment  to 
contributing  to  that  worthy  cause.  Let  me  take  this 
opportunity to thank our partners in the international 
community  for  their  invaluable  assistance  in  recent 
involving  our  Philippine  peacekeepers, 
incidents 
specifically  in  the  United  Nations  Disengagement 
Observer  Force  in  the  Golan  Heights.  Our  collective 
action  has  highlighted 
the 
international community continues to accord to United 
Nations peacekeeping.
importance 
the 
that 
In the face of grave danger, Filipino peacekeepers 
have bravely helped to safeguard world peace. They have 
served with honour, distinction and professionalism in 
implementing  peacekeeping  mandates.  We  are  deeply 
concerned about the continuing and emerging dangers 
faced by all United Nations peacekeepers, and urge the 
United Nations and all fellow Member States to ensure 
that  those  dangers  are  addressed  comprehensively. 
We  believe  that  outstanding  operational  and  tactical 
issues relating to United Nations peacekeeping must be 
resolved at the highest levels as soon as possible. The 
Philippines reiterates its solid commitment to upholding 
multilateral  peacekeeping,  collective  security  and  the 
rule of law.
When we speak of inclusive development, we must 
take  into  full  account  the  invaluable  contributions 
that migrant workers make to global development and 
progress.  Their  well-being  is  a  shared  responsibility 
and part of the international community’s commitment 
to  promoting  inclusive  societies.  Those  migrants  are 
especially  vulnerable  in  times  of  conflict  and  should 
not  be  forgotten.  They  deserve  the  complete  support 
and  cooperation  of  the  international  community  in 
ensuring their safety, security and well-being. For such 
an important task, all countries — whether receiving, 
transit or sending — must be fully involved.
international  efforts 
We  are  also  alarmed  that  migrants,  particularly 
women  and  children,  continue  to  be  victims  of 
trafficking.  National  and 
to 
prevent  trafficking,  prosecute  traffickers  and  assist 
in  the  recovery  and  rehabilitation  of  victims  must  be 
strengthened.  From  a  broader  perspective,  we  should 
fully respect the rights of migrants by according them 
equal  treatment  in  all  countries.  The  Philippines  will 
continue to support efforts to protect the basic rights of 
migrants, recognize their contributions to development 
and  secure  for  them  a  place  in  the  inclusive  societies 
that we envision in the post-2015 development agenda.
As we discuss and negotiate the best ways to deliver 
and implement the post-2015 development agenda, we 
should  take  concrete  action  on  the  proposed  United 
Nations reforms that have been the subject of years of 
discussions  and  dialogues.  The  Philippines  supports 
change and reform in the United Nations to strengthen 
14-55181
47/48
A/69/PV.17 
29/09/2014
the  Secretary-General, 
its ability to meet new demands and deliver its mandate 
in  the  most  effective,  transparent,  accountable  and 
efficient  manner.  Reforms  should  include  a  better 
selection  process  for 
the 
President of the General Assembly and executive heads 
of the United Nations; an increase in the membership 
of the Security Council; a review of the use of the veto 
power  in  the  Security  Council;  an  increased  budget 
for peacekeeping missions; and ways to make full and 
effective use of partnerships across the range of United 
Nations  activities.  For  example,  if  we  were  to  elect  a 
woman to be the next Secretary-General of the United 
Nations,  that  would  be  a  powerful  signal  on  gender 
equality and empowerment.
As we set the stage to roll out a new set of goals 
for  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  let  us  not  lose 
track of the equal importance of an enabling political 
and  social  environment  to  support  the  goals.  When 
conflicts and insecurity endure, when disasters strike, 
when  pandemics  break  out,  when  terrorism  spreads 
and  when  the  Earth’s  bounties  are  confronted  with 
depletion, we face the real danger that our development 
agenda  will  fail.  It  is  our  responsibility,  therefore,  as 
States Members of the United Nations, to exert every 
effort  and  expend  every  resource  at  our  command  to 
make the United Nations the instrument for promoting 
peace, progress and development.
The meeting rose at 2.20 p.m.
48/48 
14-55181
