United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
16th plenary meeting
Saturday, 27 September 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Gunnarsdóttir 
(Iceland), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit, 
Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
Spanish text provided by the delegation): It is an honour 
for  me  to  represent  my  country,  the  Principality  of 
Andorra,  in  the  Assembly,  which  for  almost  seven 
decades has been meeting annually to speak of peace, 
development  and  justice,  and  particularly  this  year, 
in  which  we  are  marking  two  historic  events  that  are 
closely linked to the birth of the United Nations.
the landing of the Allies in Normandy, which was the 
beginning of the end of the Second World War. Those 
two armed conflicts caused humanity to open its eyes 
to  a  new  reality:  the  old  balances  among  European 
Powers  no  longer  served  to  maintain  peace  in  the 
world. The policy of blocs was ineffectual in preventing 
conflicts with enormous destructive capacity. Further, 
the foreign activities of countries, focusing solely and 
exclusively on their national interests, proved in some 
cases to be the cause of the conflicts.
The two World Wars raised humankind’s awareness 
in  that  the  world  needed  a  global  order  that  would 
ensure  peace  and  security  and  promote  development 
and  justice.  Those  functions  could  no  longer  be 
provided  by  a  single  country,  however  powerful  and 
large, or even by a bloc of countries; rather, there had 
to be multilateral action. That was the raison d’être of 
the United Nations, of which the highest expression is 
this General Assembly.
I wanted to begin with a brief historical reference, 
because  I  believe  that  the  challenges  of  peace  and 
security  in  the  world  of  today  are  not  very  different 
from the challenges of peace and security of the world 
of  yesterday,  of  1914  or  1944.  Certainly  there  is  a 
variety of challenges, but they have a very significant 
common denominator: they can be resolved only with a 
vision that is global, multilateral, effective and, above 
all, respectful of the principles that inspire this General 
Assembly.
The  year  2014  will  mark  100  years  since  the 
beginning  of  the  First  World  War  and  70  years  since 
The conflicts in Syria, Palestine or Ukraine, which 
threaten  peace  and  security  and  stability,  will  not  be 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55132 (E)
*1455132*
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
resolved optimally or effectively with a partial or short-
term  vision.  Any  solution  that  veers  away  from  the 
founding principles of the United Nations is condemned 
to  be  unstable,  not  lasting  and,  unfortunately,  quite 
often a solution that leads to new conflicts.
Therefore Andorra has always championed and will 
continue  to  champion  the  discussion  of  and  solutions 
to  those  conflicts  under  United  Nations  auspices.  We 
did  so  when  we  co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  in 
the Security Council that would have requested that the 
case of Syria be referred to the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  because  without  justice  there  can  be  no 
lasting peace — neither in Syria nor anywhere else.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Also, in the same spirit we have been unflagging 
in our defence of a solution to the Palestinian conflict 
that  obtains  peaceful  coexistence  for  two  States,  in 
compliance with United Nations resolutions. A solution 
must be based on mutual recognition and mutual respect, 
because the aspirations of the Palestinian people to have 
their own State are noble and respectable, but also noble 
and respectable are the aspirations of the Government of 
Israel to ensure life and security for its citizens. Along 
the same lines, we do not believe that any solution to 
the Ukrainian conflict can be stable unless it respects 
the principles of international law and unless it comes 
as the fruit of a sincere dialogue — neither in Ukraine 
nor anywhere else.
The  risk  and  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security  arising  from  the  emergence  of  the  Islamic 
State  in  Syria  and  Iraq  require  a  clear  response  from 
the  international  community  vis-à-vis  the  extremists. 
There  can  be  no  excuse  or  mitigating  factor  for  the 
criminal acts of barbarism, sectarianism and — let us 
be clear — terrorism to which the Islamic State resorts 
as a strategy for its action and communication. There 
can be no double-standard discourse. The Islamic State 
murders innocent people in cold blood. We all feel as 
if  we  are  British,  American  or  French  citizens  when 
watching  the  recent  savage  executions.  We  must  also 
all  feel  as  if  we  were  Syrian  or  Iraqi  citizens —  true 
victims  of  those  extremists,  though  not  always  so 
visible in the media. There can be no room for inaction 
or for impunity.
New threats, also global in nature, have appeared, 
such  as  the  phenomenon  of  foreign  combatants.  In 
that  connection,  Andorra  co-sponsored  the  recent 
Security Council resolution 2178 (2014). We must have 
a response to rechannel efforts to tackle the challenges 
and immediate threats. In the long run we must be able 
to  persevere  in  the  fight  against  sectarian  discourse, 
extremist  discourse,  and  discourses  of  hate.  On  that 
point,  education  must  play  an  essential  role,  together 
with  the  other  values  of  the  United  Nations,  now  and 
in the future.
The  actions  taken  by  my  country  in  the  United 
Nations  over  the  past  year  have  focused  primarily  on 
education.  That  matter  requires,  perhaps  more  than 
any other, a vision that integrates long-term thinking. 
Promoting  access  to  quality  education  for  all  the 
citizens of our planet has always been a priority of the 
United  Nations,  because  when  we  speak  of  education 
we  are  speaking  also  of  fundamental  rights  and  of 
development.  But  I  would  go  further.  Education  is 
also  an  instrument  for  creating  awareness  of  a  global 
citizenry. If there is not a broad majority of citizens of 
the  world  who  believe  in  the  principles  and  values  of 
the United Nations, our actions will always be in vain.
I am convinced that the only way to create global 
awareness is through education. Education is the best 
weapon in the fight against hatred and violence of all 
kinds. Andorra therefore welcomes and has participated 
from  the  beginning  in  the  Global  Education  First 
Initiative promoted by the Secretary-General, because 
it brings a universal vision together with local action. 
It also shows that diversity is strengthened in a global 
focus, and with diversity we can strengthen democracy.
Andorrans,  because  of  our  historical  and 
geographical circumstances, have understood for some 
time that education must have a twofold focus, local and 
global. We have also long understood that cooperation 
among  the  different  States  strengthens  the  quality  of 
our educational systems and opens new opportunities 
for  our  citizens.  I  say  “educational  systems”  because 
the  citizens  of  Andorra  can  have  access  on  an  equal 
footing,  and  without  cost,  to  French,  Spanish  and 
Andorran  education.  Those  three  public  education 
systems are complemented by the offer in Andorra of a 
Catholic religious education, accessible also to a great 
part of our population.
Perhaps without being fully aware of it, or perhaps 
because  fortune  has  placed  us  between  two  great 
European  nations,  it  is  true  that  for  decades  now  we 
Andorrans  have  educated  ourselves  in  diversity  and 
in being multicultural. That has not caused us to lose 
2/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
our  identity;  on  the  contrary,  our  identity  has  been 
reinforced. Sometimes we are not even aware ourselves 
of  the  educational  richness  of  our  country  and  of  the 
great asset that that is. For that reason the Government 
of  Andorra  has  focused  a  great  deal  of  its  policy  and 
action abroad on education. In 2012 and 2013, during 
the Andorran presidency of the Council of Europe, that 
is how we acted. It is also what we have shown through 
participating  in  the  Global  Education  First  Initiative, 
together  with  15  other  countries  from  all  continents. 
That was an honour for Andorra.
That  activity  abroad  is  also  reflected  coherently 
in  internal  policies  in  Andorra.  We  have  suffered  the 
effects of the international economic crisis for years. We 
have had austerity in our public spending, but that has 
not  undermined  our  educational  system.  It  will  never 
affect our educational system, or undermine it, because 
education is the best passport to the opportunity for a 
future that is better for all.
The  need  for  multilateral  action  is  clear  not  only 
in  the  matter  of  education  but  also,  and  perhaps  even 
more  intensely,  in  the  fight  against  global  warming. 
What we each can do unilaterally will not accomplish 
much if there is no global commitment. It is in the fight 
against climate change that we can see most clearly that 
unilateral actions have a limited reach. Andorrans are 
very  aware  of  that,  given  that  our  primary  economic 
sector  is  winter  and  mountain  tourism  —  a  tourism 
threatened  by  global  warming.  The  Pyrenees  are 
heating up at 0.2°C each decade, and precipitation has 
dropped by 2 litres per square metre each year.
It  is  clear  that  a  programme  of  local  action  is 
required. We are working, together with the population 
through education and awareness, on policies to reduce 
our  impact  on  the  environment.  We  are  preparing 
studies to seek ways to mitigate the effects of climate 
change and also to seek alternative and complementary 
systems.  Over  the  years  ahead,  we  will  deploy  great 
efforts to bring about alternative energy sources.
implemented  by  Governments 
But  all  that  is  not  enough,  nor  are  the  many 
in 
actions  being 
countries 
represented  enough.  National  domestic 
environmental policies are important, but if we are to 
limit carbon dioxide emissions we must have a global 
commitment. Without effective implementation of such 
a commitment, the fight against climate change will not 
bear the hoped-for fruits. We have a year to prepare for 
the Paris Conference, a year to mobilize our efforts.
It  is  also  time  for  the  international  community 
to  mobilize  to  fight  the  Ebola  virus  that  so  seriously 
affects Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea. It also affects 
us; let us not deceive ourselves. It is the time to show 
solidarity, to help. Now is the time, in the weeks and 
months  ahead,  when  we  must  tackle  that  disease, 
which, unfortunately, does not recognize — nor will it 
recognize — borders. It is urgent. Beyond that it is, in 
my opinion, a global emergency.
Three years ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Principality of Andorra came to this Assembly 
and spoke, among other things, of an ambitious reform 
programme for restructuring our economic model (see 
A/66/PV.27). The programme hinged on transparency, 
economic  openness  and  a  homogenization  that  would 
respect  certain  Andorran  specifics.  Today, 
three 
years down the road, we can make a very satisfactory 
assessment  of  the  implementation  of  that  policy.  Our 
country  has  implemented  a  fiscal  model  that  works 
with our European neighbours, a moderate system that 
taxes all income and promotes economic productivity.
We have also opened 100 per cent of the Andorran 
economy  to  foreign  investment,  as  we  believe  that  a 
more open world is a more transparent world, one with 
more opportunities for all, and in particular for those 
who deserve it the most. A country such as ours, which 
for many years has been open to immigration, cannot 
continue to allow our citizens to have different levels 
of  rights  economically.  They  must  all  have  the  same 
economic rights. In that process we have broadened all 
economic rights to all foreign residents, who represent 
more than half of our population, because a more open 
economy is also a fairer and more democratic society.
At the same time, along with its domestic reforms, 
Andorra  has  negotiated  double-taxation  agreements 
with  France  and  Luxembourg  and  is  negotiating  one 
with Spain that I am convinced will be concluded soon. 
We think we can have a similar agreement with other 
European and other countries. Those agreements show 
that there is a commitment in Andorra to a more open and 
transparent global economy. That is a firm commitment 
on the part of our Government with regard to generating 
more opportunities for our business sector. We are also 
firmly determined to move towards greater integration 
of our economy in the single European market. For us, 
going global begins in Europe.
I  wanted  to  sum  up  some  of  our  principal 
domestic  reforms  because  I  understand  that  a  spirit 
14-55132
3/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
of  multilateralism  and  a  global  spirit  must  prevail. 
The efforts of a country working for transparency and 
economic cooperation make sense and will be effective 
only  if  they  are  accompanied  by  equal  efforts  by  all 
countries  —  again,  by  all  countries.  Andorrans  are 
committed  to  moving  in  that  direction,  and  to  do  so 
together with the international community, because we 
know that it is only thus, only by working globally, that 
progress will be effective, equitable and stable.
The  statement  of  the  Head  of  Government  of  a 
country of 468 square kilometres and 70,000 inhabitants 
will  never  make  the  headlines  or  be  discussed  in 
prime  time  on  the  world’s  big  international  television 
channels.  But  representing  a  small  country  gives  us 
some  advantages,  including  one  that  I  believe  we 
should underscore today. No one is as aware as we are 
of the importance of multilateral forums when it comes 
to resolving conflicts, strengthening international law 
and finding global solutions. No one is as aware as we 
are that to preserve individual identities and diversities 
we must have a collective resolve and joint action.
History has accustomed Andorrans to being affected 
by the geostrategic decisions of bigger countries and to 
suffering indirectly the effects of instability occurring 
beyond our borders. We know that in the great causes of 
humanity such as the fight against climate change, our 
individual actions will not have much influence if not 
accompanied by collective action. I could say the same 
of building a global economy that is more equitable and 
more  transparent.  I  have  always  said  that  the  reality 
for  Andorra  is  also  the  reality  for  all,  that  for  the 
great questions we address, the solutions all hinge on 
consensus — otherwise they are not solutions. We must 
have broad consensus based on individual convictions.
The convictions of Andorra are clear: they are the 
principles and values that almost 70 years ago inspired 
the birth of the United Nations. Let us never forget the 
reason for this great Organization. If we forget, we are 
not worthy of being here.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of Government of 
the Principality of Andorra for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the Principality of Andorra, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Pham  Binh  Minh,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam.
Mr. Pham Binh Minh (Viet Nam): At the outset, 
I  should  like  to  extend  my  warmest  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  am 
confident  that  under  his  able  leadership  this  session 
will enjoy great success. My appreciation also goes to 
Mr.  John  William  Ashe,  President  at  the  sixty-eighth 
session, and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for their 
important contributions to the work of our Organization 
over the past year.
This session of the General Assembly takes place as 
we approach the seventieth anniversary of the founding 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  gives  us  the  opportunity  to 
look  back  on  the  past  almost  70  years  of  the  United 
Nations  implementing  its  mandate  to  assist  nations 
to  build  a  world  of  peace,  security  and  sustainable 
development,  a  world  where  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms  are  respected  and  promoted.  It  is  also  an 
opportunity for in-depth discussions on the formulation 
and  implementation  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
This  year’s  Assembly  session  is  also  convened 
against the backdrop of a world landscape that features 
numerous  turning  points  and  contrasts.  On  the  bright 
side, increasingly the United Nations is playing better 
its  central  role  in  the  promotion  of  the  system  of 
rules and norms of international law, thus facilitating 
solutions  to  global  challenges,  and  of  the  interests  of 
peace  and  development  for  all  nations.  Globalization 
and  multilayered  economic  cooperation  and  linkages 
continue to evolve strongly. Our efforts to realize the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have brought 
encouraging results in most regions.
We see also a more sombre part, one that paints the 
many daunting challenges the world is facing. The trend 
of  cooperation  contains  risks,  while  global  economic 
recovery  is  yet  to  be  sustainable.  International  peace 
and  security  are  being  challenged  by  the  negative 
factor  of  competition  and  intervention  and  especially 
by the potential escalation of territorial and sovereignty 
disputes.  Ongoing  crises  and  conflicts  in  the  Middle 
East and a number of African countries have inflicted 
major human and material losses and threaten regional 
and international peace and security.
Global challenges remain high on the agenda of the 
international  community.  Terrorism,  the  proliferation 
4/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  nuclear  security  and 
safety,  environmental  pollution,  depletion  of  natural 
resources, climate change, natural calamities, epidemics 
and  the  lack  of  food  and  water  security  are  issues  of 
primary concern to the international community. They 
require enhanced joint efforts.
Peace and security are prerequisites for sustainable 
development.  The  United  Nations  and  its  Member 
States must live up to their responsibility to strengthen 
international  peace  and  security,  prevent  potential 
conflicts  and  find  solutions  to  ongoing  hostilities. 
That  is  an  urgent  task,  but  it  also  requires  long-term 
engagement. History has taught us that the paths that lead 
to wars and conflicts lie in obsolete doctrines of power 
politics, of ambitions of domination and imposition, and 
of the threat of force in settling international disputes, 
including territorial and sovereignty disputes.
Viet  Nam  believes  that  respect  for  international 
law  is  the  foundation  of  peace,  security  and  stability 
for sustainable development. More than ever, Member 
States, big or small, rich or poor, must all respect and 
seriously  observe  the  principles,  rules  and  norms  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law. All nations must renounce the use of force as an 
option in their international relations and instead settle 
all disputes by peaceful means. That is a crucial area 
in  which  the  United  Nations  represents  a  powerful 
advance from the League of Nations, and it commands 
greater commitment and effort from Member States.
In that spirit, Viet Nam looks forward to substantive 
progress  in  the  negotiations  for  a  comprehensive,  fair 
and long-term solution for peace in the Middle East that 
will  ensure  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people and the legitimate interests of all parties. We are 
deeply concerned about the escalating violence in Iraq. 
and we support the efforts of the Iraqi Government and 
the international community to stabilize the situation. 
We  call  for  an  end  to  unilateral  economic  sanctions 
against  developing  countries  and  support  General 
Assembly resolutions on ending the economic embargo 
against Cuba.
Viet  Nam  strongly  condemns  all  acts  of  terror  in 
any  form,  especially  the  targeting  of  civilians.  We 
support  all  international  efforts  and  initiatives  to 
combat  that  menace  in  accordance  with  international 
law and the United Nations Charter. In addition, we all 
have  a  stake  in  economic  restructuring,  job  creation, 
achieving a balanced, inclusive and sustained growth, 
and in maintaining a peaceful and stable environment 
conducive to development.
It  is  therefore  our  primary  task  to  complete  the 
MDGs and formulate the post-2015 development agenda 
to create added momentum for sustainable development 
in each country and for international economic linkages. 
In that process, the United Nations should focus more 
actions  and  resources  on  addressing  social  injustices 
and inequalities. It should provide stronger support to 
regional and subregional programmes for connectivity, 
poverty  reduction,  narrowing  the  development  gap 
and building the green economy. That will lay a firm 
and  long-term  foundation  for  peace,  security  and 
development.  In  so  doing,  and  to  adapt  itself  to  a 
constantly  changing  world,  the  United  Nations  must 
accelerate  its  reform  process  in  a  comprehensive, 
balanced, transparent and equal manner in the interests 
of  all  Member  States.  The  Security  Council  must  be 
reformed  in  both  membership  and  working  methods 
to  better  respond  to  global  challenges  to  peace  and 
security.
In its national socioeconomic development and in its 
international integration, Viet Nam has always attached 
importance  to  the  roles  of  multilateral  institutions 
and  forums,  especially  that  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
the  areas  of  international  and  regional  security  and 
development.  Viet  Nam  is  proud  to  be  an  active  and 
responsible  member  of  important  regional  and  global 
organizations,  such  as  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Non-Aligned Movement, 
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation and the Asia-
Europe  Meeting.  Viet  Nam  is  doubling  its  efforts  to 
achieve  all  MDGs  and  is  actively  participating  in  the 
formulation of the post-2015 development agenda.
It  is  our  consistent,  principled  position  to  respect 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States and 
to settle international disputes and conflicts, including 
the  issue  of  the  East  Sea,  or  South  China  Sea,  by 
peaceful  means  in  accordance  with  international  law, 
including  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea.  Viet  Nam  abides  by  the  Declaration 
on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and 
works to ensure an early adoption of the code of conduct 
for parties in the South China Sea.
We  support  efforts  to  strengthen  the  multilateral 
trade system to create fresh momentum for the world 
economy in order to regain sustained growth. Viet Nam 
is  willing  to  join  global  efforts  to  enhance  economic 
14-55132
5/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
linkages  and  reform  the  global  economic  and  trade 
governance 
towards  greater  equality,  democracy, 
transparency and efficiency.
changes  of  our  age  and  strengthen  its  operational 
nature  and  effectiveness  in  the  exercise  of  preventive 
diplomacy.
Viet  Nam  and  other  ASEAN  member  States  are 
working  hard  to  establish  the  ASEAN  Community  in 
2015 with three pillars: political-security cooperation, 
economic cooperation and social-cultural cooperation. 
That, we believe, will help to build a South-East Asian 
region  of  peace,  stability,  cooperation  and  prosperity 
and to form a regional architecture with ASEAN at the 
centre,  founded  upon  international  law  and  aimed  at 
developing common rules and norms for the region.
norms 
for 
and 
peace, 
To  contribute  to  international  efforts  to  enhance 
principles 
sustainable 
development and human rights, Viet Nam is playing an 
active and constructive role as a member of the Human 
Rights Council. For the very first time, Viet Nam has 
dispatched  its  military  officers  to  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  mission 
in  South  Sudan.  Looking 
forward, Viet Nam has presented its candidature for the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  2016-2018  term 
and  for  the  Security  Council  for  the  2020-2021  term. 
We count on the valuable support of members.
Peace and development are inseparable companions. 
They  complement  each  other  on  the  path  towards  a 
prosperous world. We are confident that with political 
will, mutual trust and equality based on international 
law and responsible joint actions, we can build stronger 
partnerships  for  peace,  cooperation  and  sustainable 
development for all.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Evangelos Venizelos, Deputy Prime Minister and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic.
Mr.  Venizelos  (Greece)  (spoke  in  French):  This 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly is taking 
place in a global context full of challenges, testing the 
efficiency of the current international system. Greece 
remains fully engaged with the objectives of the United 
Nations,  whose  universal  ideals  have  never  failed  to 
inspire us.
I should like to take this opportunity to emphasize 
my  country’s  alignment  with  the  positions  of  the 
European  Union  presented  by  the  President  of  the 
European Council in his statement (see A/69/PV.9).
We  reiterate  our  support  for  efforts  to  reform  the 
Organization,  including  the  Security  Council,  so  that 
the  United  Nations  can  better  adapt  to  the  ongoing 
Among  the  challenges  at  the  global  level  is 
obviously that of climate change, which is an absolute 
priority.  A  new  universal  agreement,  legally  binding 
on all, is essential. Transition towards a new model of 
green  economy  with  a  low  carbon  footprint  must  be 
accelerated. Greece believes that the Climate Summit 
held this week offered a unique opportunity to intensify 
the efforts to achieve such a universal agreement.
to  stress 
The  Greek  presidency  of  the  Council  of  the 
European  Union  (EU),  during  the  first  half  of  2014, 
sought 
importance  of  sustainable 
development. A significant joint statement was adopted 
in  the  framework  of  the  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
European  Union  with  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
countries that was held in Nairobi last June.
the 
The  Ebola  virus  epidemic  has  become  a  genuine 
threat  to  global  peace  and  security  with  its  serious 
social,  economic  and  humanitarian  repercussions.  An 
international strategy is necessary to contain the virus 
and  to  avoid  an  unprecedented  humanitarian  crisis 
that  would  precipitate  the  collapse  of  the  health-care 
system and, eventually, of the social fabric of the States 
affected.  Therefore  we  welcome  the  decision  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  establish  the  new  mission,  the 
United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response, 
and we pledge that Greece will offer its full support to 
any initiative taken in order to combat the epidemic.
The current complex security challenges require us 
to unite our forces, both internationally and regionally. 
Greece  supports  the  strengthening  of  cooperation 
between  the  European  Union  and  the  United  Nations 
in crisis management, particularly by implementing the 
action plan on United Nations peacekeeping operations.
The  world  is  facing  a  series  of  unprecedented 
crises in the Middle East and in North Africa, as well 
as the eastern area of the European Union. Of course, 
in  the  face  of  such  multiple  crises,  a  consistent  and 
global  comprehensive  strategy  is  required.  Certainly, 
from  this  standpoint  the  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially the Security Council, is the deciding factor. 
That is the only way that we will be able to deal with 
the critical dilemma confronting us now, the dilemma 
between democracy and security. But if there is to be 
democracy,  there  must  be  a  State  that  is  functioning 
6/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
and  does  not  dissolve,  as  well  as  minimal  security 
conditions.
The  Ukrainian  crisis  seriously  affects  security 
and  stability  in  Europe.  We  are  concerned  by  the 
deteriorating humanitarian situation in eastern Ukraine, 
and we support the territorial integrity, independence 
and sovereignty of Ukraine.
(spoke in English)
We  support  the  5  September  Minsk  agreement, 
the full implementation of which can contribute to the 
resolution of the crisis through diplomatic and political 
means.  The  key  is  the  achievement  of  an  inclusive 
solution.
Regarding security concerns in our neighbourhood, 
we  welcome  the  adoption  in  Egypt  of  the  26  August 
Israeli-Palestinian  ceasefire  agreement,  which  we 
hope  will  pave  the  way  to  relaunching  the  political 
process aimed at establishing a durable peace, which is 
obviously  a  prerequisite  for  a  comprehensive  solution 
allowing two States, Israel and Palestine, to coexist in 
security.
The  Secretary-General’s  newly  appointed  Special 
Envoy  for  Syria  must  continue  efforts  to  ensure  the 
effective relaunching of the Geneva II political process. 
That  is  all  the  more  imperative  given  the  barbaric 
actions  of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS) and other jihadist groups in Syria and the Iraqi-
Syrian border regions. Foreign fighters joining jihadist 
terrorist organizations are a serious threat to regional 
and global security. As a member of the international 
alliance  against  ISIS  and  extreme  jihadists,  Greece 
fully  supports  the  new  Security  Council  resolution 
2178 (2014), on how the international community must 
act against ISIS and potential foreign fighters. In that 
regard,  I  wish  to  make  special  reference  to  the  grave 
humanitarian situation and increasing refugee pressure 
on countries of the region, including Greece.
Military means alone cannot eliminate the jihadist 
threat.  We  must  also  promote  an  inclusive  process  of 
reconciliation and national dialogue in Iraq to counter 
that threat to the country’s national unity and territorial 
integrity.  We  remain  seriously  concerned  at 
the 
displacement of civilians, and we strongly condemn the 
systematic persecution of Christians and other religious 
communities.
The region’s stability is also under threat from the 
ongoing  violence  in  Libya.  We  strongly  support  the 
United  Nations  coordination  of  relevant  international 
efforts. We therefore welcome the appointment of the 
Secretary-General’s new Special Representative.
increasingly  confronting  and 
Deeply concerned at the life-threatening conditions 
journalists  are 
the 
censorship  and  persecution  the  media  are  facing, 
Greece  co-sponsored  last  year’s  resolution  68/163,  on 
the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity. We 
are  now  co-sponsoring  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on 
the protection of journalists.
During its European presidency in the first half of 
2014,  Greece  emphasized  Western  Balkan  integration 
into  the  European  Union.  That  objective  requires 
implementation of internal reforms in accordance with 
EU  standards  and  the  promotion  of  good-neighbourly 
relations  through  regional  cooperation,  reconciliation 
and effective confrontation of the sources of nationalism. 
We welcome the significant progress so far in the EU-
facilitated  Belgrade-Pristina  talks.  We  hope  that  the 
two  sides  will  continue  their  constructive  discussions 
in a spirit of compromise.
With  respect  to  the  issue  of  the  name  of  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece fully 
respects the process directed by the Secretary-General 
through his Personal Envoy, Mr. Matthew Nimetz, and 
always  participates  constructively  and  with  goodwill. 
Greece  has  already  taken  considerable  steps.  We  are 
awaiting corresponding steps from the other side. We 
propose  a  mutually  acceptable  compound  name,  with 
a geographical qualifier before the word “Macedonia”, 
for all uses and purposes, internally and internationally, 
erga omnes.
Greece  supports  the  European  and  Euro-Atlantic 
perspective of that neighbouring country and has long 
been  among  the  top  foreign  direct  investors  there.  Its 
European and Euro-Atlantic perspective hinges not on 
the name or on Greece, but on respect for the general 
criteria in place for all accession-candidate countries. 
It hinges on issues of democracy, rule of law, respect 
for human rights, harmonious inter-ethnic relations and 
freedom of the press. As the relevant European Council 
conclusions  say,  tangible  steps  need  to  be  taken  on 
those issues.
This past summer marked the fortieth anniversary 
of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, and the international 
community  continues  to  confront  the  ongoing  illegal 
military occupation of the territory of a United Nations 
and  European  Union  member  State.  Greece  fully 
14-55132
7/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
supports  the  dialogue  between  the  leaders  of  the  two 
communities  within  the  framework  of  the  February 
2014 joint communiqué and the initiatives of President 
Anastasiades  for  confidence-building  measures  that 
can create new momentum on the island.
A  just  and  viable  solution  to  the  Cyprus  problem 
must be in accordance with the relevant Security Council 
resolutions,  the  high-level  agreements,  the  February 
2014 joint communiqué and the European acquis. The 
Cypriot  people  must  express  their  agreement  to  such 
a solution through a referendum. We also attach great 
importance  to  maintaining  the  mandate,  level  and 
concept  of  the  United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Force  in 
Cyprus  and  to  the  Secretary-General’s  good  offices 
mission. We welcome the appointment of Mr. Eide as 
his new Special Adviser on Cyprus.
A just and viable solution to the Cyprus issue and 
respect for international law, especially the international 
law  of  the  sea,  are  two  critical  factors  on  which  the 
full  development  of  Greek-Turkish  relations  depends. 
These relations have great potential, and are critical to 
the  stability  of  the  wider  region  as  they  are  relations 
between two NATO member States, while Greece also 
supports Turkey’s European perspective.
Challenging  times  require  demanding  choices. 
The United Nations is in a position to tackle the new 
challenges, as it has so often done in the past, provided 
we all share the same vision and, most importantly, the 
necessary political will.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Ri  Su  Yong,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Ri  Su  Yong  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided 
by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I should first 
like to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba 
Kutesa  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
implementing  a 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  fully 
endorses  the  main  theme  of  this  session,  “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”.  Development  is  one  of  the 
core  missions  of  the  United  Nations.  With  peace,  it 
constitutes  one  of  the  two  pillars  for  the  sustainable 
development of humankind. During the first 15 years 
of the new millennium, the world has seen the poverty 
rate reduced by half. It is proof of success, illustrating 
the correctness of the Millennium Development Goals, 
adopted at the Millennium Summit, with the elimination 
of poverty as the main target.
It  has  been  a  particularly  difficult  time  for  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  However, 
we  too  have  overcome  severe  hardships.  Despite 
an  unprecedentedly  persistent  economic  blockade, 
military threat and political obstruction, we have firmly 
safeguarded  national  dignity,  effectively  deterred  war 
and  put  the  stagnant  economy  on  an  upward  track 
under the leadership of the great General Kim Jong Il. 
Today we have at last secured a reliable springboard to 
leap into a powerful nation, following the guidance of 
respected Marshal Kim Jong Un.
In  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
today, a grand construction boom is in full swing, and 
modern  factories  and  enterprises  befitting  the  era  of 
the knowledge economy are being built and founded at 
record-breaking speed in many parts of the country. We 
have observed a great leap in our fishing industry and 
livestock farming, as well as a blooming new twenty-
first century civilization in the living environment and 
cultural and welfare spheres for future generations and 
the working masses.
The  climate  change  Summit  held  just  a  few  days 
ago  was  a  successful  gathering  that  constituted  part 
of  the  active  measures  being  taken  across  the  United 
Nations  system  to  ensure  the  survival  of  humankind 
and  sustainable  development  by  protecting  the  global 
ecosystem and addressing climate change.
The  United  Nations  and  international  relations 
should  be  democratized  further.  The  principle  of 
sovereign equality enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations is exactly same as the principle of respect for 
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of other nations. However, acts of high-handedness and 
arbitrariness  —  veiled  under  various  disguises  such 
as democracy, humanitarian crises, counter-terrorism, 
human  rights  protection  and  non-proliferation  —  are 
committed brazenly in the form of sanctions, blockade, 
military threat and armed intervention. That is the stern 
reality we witness today.
Proceeding from its consistent position of opposing 
interference  and  sanctions  in  all  their  manifestations 
against  sovereign  States,  our  delegation  holds  that 
the  unilateral  economic,  trade  and  financial  blockade 
imposed by the United States against Cuba should be 
immediately dismantled.
8/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
With respect to the issue of enhancing the central 
role  of  the  United  Nations,  we  see  its  functions  and 
role  regarding  peace  and  security  lagging  far  behind 
others.  As  stipulated  in  the  Charter,  Member  States 
entrusted the Security Council with the maintenance of 
international peace and security as its first and foremost 
responsibility. Present reality shows that in lieu of the 
Security Council — which is still mired in the paralysis 
of the Cold War — a permanent member seeks to act as 
the military police of the world through military blocs 
or  bilateral  military  alliances  that  have  nothing  to  do 
with the United Nations.
The anachronistic stereotypes and prejudices of the 
Security  Council  find  their  most  extreme  expression 
in  the  prevailing  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
The world remembers that the situation on the Korean 
peninsula  reached  the  touch-and-go  brink  of  war  last 
year. It started with the United States-South Korea joint 
military exercises aimed at occupying the capital city 
of Pyongyang of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea.
In  January,  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  made  a  proposal  to 
stop  hostile  military  acts  on  the  Korean  peninsula, 
but  provocative  joint  military  exercises  against  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  were  forcibly 
conducted in March, April and August. The Government 
of the Democratic People’s Republic officially referred 
to  the  Security  Council  the  issue  of  suspending  such 
war exercises, which seriously endanger the peace and 
security  of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the  region  as  a 
whole.  However,  the  Council  turned  its  back.  As  the 
joint military exercises were led by one of its permanent 
members, the Council was bound to close its eyes, block 
its ears and shut its mouth, no matter how enormous in 
scale,  aggressive  in  purpose  and  dangerous  in  nature 
they were.
Even  in  the  Cold  War  period,  measures  were  in 
place  between  the  East  and  the  West  to  restrict  the 
number of military exercises in which more than 40,000 
troops took part. We are obliged to ask why such war 
exercises, with the participation of more than 500,000 
troops at a time, are needed annually only on the Korean 
peninsula, nearly a quarter of a century after the Cold 
War ended.
At  present,  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  set  economic 
construction  and  improvement  of  the  people’s  living 
standards  as  its  major  task.  Accordingly,  a  peaceful 
environment is vital in allowing us to lead the recently 
improving trend of the national economy to sustainable 
development. A peaceful environment and the reduction 
of tensions are more precious to us now than at any time. 
The tense situation on the Korean peninsula does not 
help us. On the contrary, it presents a serious obstacle 
to our efforts to achieve economic development and an 
improved living standard.
War  exercises  focused  on  landing,  long-range 
nuclear  bombing  and  commando  operations  aimed  at 
occupying the capital city of another country can never 
be viewed as defensive. The claim that they are annual 
in nature is just a veiled attempt to succeed in a surprise 
attack after creating chronic immunity to them.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  no 
longer  be  delayed.  The  Council’s  current  structure 
and  method  of  work  have  long  been  out  of  date,  as 
confirmed  by  the  expressed  general  will  of  Member 
States  reflected  in  resolution  47/62,  adopted  in  1992. 
The Security Council should no longer be an exhibition 
showcase  for  the  extreme  manifestation  of  the  double 
standard.  We  must  put  an  end  to  the  unjust  practice 
whereby the military exercises waged by a permanent 
member of the Council are covered up with no regard 
to  their  serious  threat  to  peace  and  security,  whereas 
those  conducted  by  a  Member  State  in  response  are 
called  into  question,  although  they  are  inevitable  and 
self-defensive in nature.
Likewise,  the  Security  Council  simply  ignores 
the killing of Palestinian civilians by Israel under the 
patronage of a permanent member, yet selectively takes 
issue  with  the  actions  of  the  Syrian  Government  in 
defence of the sovereignty and stability of its country. 
This unjust practice cannot be tolerated. In particular, 
no act should be allowed to encroach on the sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Syria  under  the  guise  of 
counter-terrorism.
The  Security  Council  should  no  longer  serve  as 
a  forum  for  the  spreading  of  lies.  Eleven  years  ago, 
we heard with our own ears the accusation made at a 
Security  Council  meeting  by  a  permanent  member 
that  there  were  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  Iraq 
(see  S/PV.4701).  A  military  invasion  followed,  and 
tragic  bloodshed  resulted.  Only  then  did  the  world 
come  to  realize  that  it  had  heard  the  big  lie  of  the 
century. However, because the big lie had come from 
a permanent member, the Security Council kept silent 
again. As a result, the bloodshed continues even today, 
after 11 years.
14-55132
9/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
The  Security  Council  should  not  be  abused  as  a 
tool to justify high-handedness and arbitrariness. The 
United  Nations  Charter  stipulates  that  the  Security 
Council  should  act  in  conformity  with  the  principles 
of justice and international law. The Security Council 
has no authority to adopt a resolution that prohibits the 
peaceful launch of a satellite by a Member State, as that 
is in contravention of international law, in particular the 
Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States 
in  the  Exploration  and  Use  of  Outer  Space,  including 
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina), Vice-President, took the 
Chair
The  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  would, 
in  essence,  democratize  the  United  Nations  and 
international  relations.  The  United  Nations  is  not  a 
monarchy  and  the  Security  Council  is  not  a  senate. 
The reform of the Security Council will not be possible 
unless its members decide in good faith to give up their 
prerogatives  in  the  interests  of  democracy.  Given  the 
changing  times  and  the  demands  of  the  majority  of 
Member  States,  the  permanent  member  that  is  most 
vociferous about the export of democracy should reflect 
on whether or not its preaching is just hypocrisy. Should 
the  Security  Council  fail  to  reform  itself  and  remain 
out of step with the times, Member States may well opt 
for a United Nations without such an anachronistic and 
undemocratic Council.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
maintains that all problems pertaining to international 
relations should be resolved not by high-handedness and 
arbitrariness, but in strict accordance with the principles 
of sovereign equality enshrined in the United Nations 
Charter. The nuclear issue is a matter of the sovereignty 
and the right to exist of a Member State and must take 
precedence over peace and security. The hostile policy, 
nuclear  threat  and  stifling  strategy  pursued  by  the 
United  States  for  more  than  half  a  century  inevitably 
prompted  the  decision  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea to become a nuclear-weapon State.
The  nuclear  deterrent  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  neither  intended  to  threaten  or 
attack  others,  nor  a  bargaining  chip  to  be  exchanged 
for something else. The nuclear issue will be resolved if 
and when the substance of the threat to our sovereignty 
and  right  to  life  is  removed  through  the  termination 
of  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States  towards  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Politicization, selectivity and double standards are 
out of place when dealing with human rights issues. The 
abuse of human rights for political purposes is in itself 
the  biggest  human  rights  violation.  The  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  firmly  opposed  to  all 
attempts and actions to force regime change on specific 
countries by alleging abuse of human rights. The United 
States does not recognize the national sovereignty that 
safeguards the human rights of our people. That being 
the  case,  it  is  hypocritical  of  it  to  find  fault  with  our 
human  rights  issues.  It  is  all  the  more  preposterous 
that the United States should talk about a human rights 
dialogue  when  it  adamantly  prevents  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  —  the  party  directly 
involved  —  from  participating  in  the  meeting  on  the 
latter’s own human rights situation.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is 
always open to dialogue and cooperation in the case of 
genuine human rights issues that are devoid of any form 
of political motivation or hypocrisy. The Government of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is willing to 
promote human rights dialogue and cooperation on an 
equal footing with other countries that are not hostile to 
it. It is also willing to facilitate technical cooperation, 
contact  and  communication  with  the  United  Nations 
and  other  international  organizations  in  the  human 
rights field.
The reunification of the fatherland is the supreme 
desire  of  the  entire  Korean  nation.  The  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  maintains  that  national 
reunification  should  be  achieved  not 
through  a 
confrontation of systems but by a confederation formula 
whereby  two  systems  coexist  in  a  single  country.  It 
is  the  only  way  to  prevent  war  and  safeguard  peace. 
The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  is  sincerely  striving  by  both  word  and  deed 
to  develop  inter-Korean  relations  and  to  orient  them 
towards reunification through confederation.
As  South  Korea  has  relinquished  its  military 
prerogatives  to  the  United  States  in  their  entirety,  it 
has no idea how many weapons of mass destruction of 
various kinds — capable of destroying the Korean nation 
more than hundreds of times over — are now deployed 
and hidden on its own soil. It should therefore refrain 
from prattling and dreaming about the unrealistic and 
fictitious  proposal  for  reunification  copied  from  the 
formula of other countries.
I should like to assure members that the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  constructively 
10/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
participate in delivering on the post-2015 development 
agenda at the current session and thus make an active 
contribution  to  the  work  for  the  successful  adoption 
of  the  development  agenda  next  year  on  the  occasion 
of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the 
United  Nations.  Independence,  peace  and  friendship 
are the foreign policy ideals of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  As  in  the  past,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea will fulfil its responsibilities 
and  discharge  its  role  as  an  independent  Member 
State by steadfastly adhering to these ideals in United 
Nations activities.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ramtane Lamamra, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Democratic Republic of 
Algeria.
Mr.  Lamamra  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
should  like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  satisfaction  at 
seeing  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  Uganda,  an  African  neighbour,  brother  and  friend, 
presiding  over  this  important  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  to  assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation. 
I should also like to hail his predecessor the outgoing 
President of the General Assembly, Mr. John Ashe, and 
to pay homage to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
his work in driving forward the role and missions of the 
United Nations.
The  theme  of  the  general  debate  focuses  on  the 
future  and  the  prospects  for  future  generations.  This 
reminds  us,  on  the  eve  of  the  global  summit  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  of  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  of  the  urgency  of 
making  a  renewed  commitment  to  multilateralism 
founded on international law.
Given the persistence and varied manifestations of 
the current crisis, we must have a comprehensive vision 
in order to make the United Nations a builder of lasting 
solutions to modern global problems. We are banking 
on the hope that the new sustainable development goals 
(SDGs) will contribute to bringing about a world that 
makes  it  possible  for  us  effectively  to  protect  human 
rights, guarantee the inclusive participation of all, and 
ensure  that  everyone  —  particularly  those  living  in 
the forlorn regions in which 40 per cent of the poorest 
people live — shares in prosperity.
That  was 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  at  the  seventeenth 
Ministerial  Conference  hosted  by  Algeria  in  May,  in 
the  formulation  expressed  by 
reaffirming the relevance and importance of the right to 
development and the pressing need to eradicate poverty, 
which has been identified as a global challenge and a 
central objective of the post-2015 development agenda. 
Algeria is pursuing its efforts to reach a comprehensive 
and ambitious agreement on the SDGs and on climate, 
to include, in the case of the latter, desertification and 
access to genetic resources. Furthermore, we must see 
the implementation of commitments, whether they are 
commitments made as official development assistance 
or  within  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  in  the  Doha 
Declaration  or  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development.
At  the  United  Nations,  Algeria  coordinates  the 
NAM  working  group  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly. In that role, Algeria will continue its 
efforts to ensure that the NAM working group, which 
is the most representative in the international system, 
assumes  its  full  role.  At  the  same  time,  Algeria  will 
continue to work with its partners in the African Union 
Committee  of  Ten  towards  Security  Council  reform, 
aimed  at  putting  an  end  to  the  historical  injustices 
vis-à-vis  the  African  continent,  which  wants,  more 
than  anything,  representation  and  legitimacy  in  the 
Security Council. In that context, the strengthening of 
cooperation  and  the  multiform  partnerships  between 
the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  should  be 
encouraged,  in  particular  in  the  context  of  the  many 
conflicts and crises that continue to afflict Africa and to 
slow down the conclusion of its decolonization process.
From  that  perspective,  the  global  review  that 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  is  called  upon  to  present  in  April 
2015 on the question of Western Sahara, which pits the 
Kingdom of Morocco against the Frente Popular para 
la  Liberación  de  Saguía  el-Hamra  y  de  Río  de  Oro, 
must honour the United Nations doctrine in the matter 
of  decolonization, as  well as  stress  the  importance of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  Algeria  supports  the  inalienable  right  of 
the people of Western Sahara to self-determination, as 
has  been  well  established,  and  in  that  regard  Algeria 
encourages  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Personal 
Envoy,  Ambassador  Christopher  Ross,  to  intensify 
their efforts to ensure the success of that effort to move 
towards peace.
Algeria is a stakeholder in the common destiny of 
the peoples of the Maghreb. Algeria’s own development 
has  been  conceived  and  guided  by  the  desire  to 
achieve  the  integration  of  the  vast  geopolitical  space 
14-55132
11/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
of  which  it  is  at  the  very  centre.  The  policy  platform 
on  which  President  Bouteflika  was  re-elected  and 
the  five-year  plan  of  action  of  his  Administration 
hinge  on  a  deepening  of  participative  democracy,  the 
modernization of the judiciary, equal opportunities for 
men and women, and good governance. The economic 
effort  has  allocated  significant  public  investment 
in  the  sectors  of  agriculture,  industry,  energy,  the 
environment and tourism, and into the diversification 
and  modernization  of  the  economy,  all  based  on 
objectives  tied  to  competitiveness  and  a  substantial 
relaunching  of  growth.  At  the  same  time,  Algeria 
is  working  to  promote  development  with  mutually 
beneficial  strategic  partners,  based  on  respect  for 
sovereignty and a balance of interests, in order to bring 
about  opportunities  for  cooperation  and  the  means  of 
tackling  the  challenges  and  threats  of  a  transnational 
nature. That cooperation excludes unilateral measures 
such as the embargo imposed on Cuba.
The worrisome spread of the Ebola virus has been 
declared  by  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO) 
to  be  a  global  health  emergency,  and  that  reminds  us 
tragically  of  the  structural  precariousness  of  human 
security  systems,  as  well  as  of  the  responsibility  of 
the international community in the treatment of health 
problems  that  affect  the  poor,  who  have  no  means  or 
role in decision-making. Algeria adds its voice to that 
of the Secretary-General in urging the United Nations 
agencies and other donors, as well as non-governmental 
organizations,  quickly  to  provide  the  international 
assistance  needed  by  the  African  countries  that  have 
been hit by that scourge.
That  existential  threat  is  yet  another  that  Africa 
must collectively take on in order to ensure its rebirth, 
and brings with it challenges in the area of peace and 
security.  At  the  behest  of  the  stakeholders  in  Mali, 
Algeria  is  undertaking  large-scale  mediation  between 
the Malian Government and the movements in the north 
of that country, working with a team that is representative 
of Africa and the international community as a whole. 
The  adoption  of  a  road  map  for  negotiations  in  the 
Algiers  process  and  the  declaration  of  a  cessation  of 
hostilities have marked the effort towards the launching 
of substantial negotiations since 1 September, with the 
aim of achieving a comprehensive and definitive peace 
accord. The launching of those negotiations has been a 
source of satisfaction and coincides with the freeing of 
two Algerian diplomats who had been held hostage for 
nearly three years by a terrorist organization. I should 
like to avail myself of this opportunity to pay homage 
to the memory of our Consul in Gao and his assistant, 
Tahar Touati, who lost their lives during their period of 
captivity.
The situation in Libya, a sister nation, has continued 
to  deteriorate  over  the  past  three  years.  The  twofold 
Algerian  initiative  to  implement  a  common  plan  of 
action for all of the countries neighbouring Libya and 
for  launching  an  inclusive  dialogue  towards  national 
reconciliation,  which  would  also  seek  to  strengthen 
State  institutions,  has  made  a  valuable  contribution 
towards a collective, healthy step towards peace for the 
Libyan people, which we very much wish for them.
The difficult state of affairs in our region requires 
a  stepping  up  of  efforts  in  the  fight  against  terrorist 
groups in the Sahel and their established links to drug 
trafficking  networks  and 
transnational  organized 
crime. In the global forum of the fight against terrorism, 
Algeria  will  continue  to  cooperate,  including  in  its 
work as co-Chair of the Working Group on the Sahel, 
and will focus on securing borders and on preventing 
ransom-seeking abductions by terrorist organizations, 
bearing in mind the recommendations from the Algiers 
workshop in September 2013 and the relevant resolutions 
of the General Assembly and Security Council.
In that spirit, Algeria notes with interest the results 
of the high-level Security Council meeting on terrorism 
and  foreign  combatants,  convened  on  the  initiative  of 
President  Obama  (S/PV.7272).  We  also  take  note  of 
the 
transborder 
terrorism on a large scale, which is relevant to Iraq and 
Syria. The execution of French citizen Hervé Gourdel 
in Algeria underscores the need to strengthen the fight 
against terrorism in all its forms.
international  mobilization  against 
The  earth-shattering  developments  that  affect  the 
lives  of  people  in  the  Middle  East  add  new  questions 
with  regard  to  the  uninterrupted  role  played  by  the 
international community vis-à-vis the tragedy inflicted 
upon  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people.  The  history  of 
humankind  shows  that  armed  conflicts  give  rise  to 
other conflicts and that only by working towards justice 
within law and morality can we find lasting solutions. 
The  Palestinian  question  and  the  Syrian  crisis  must 
be approached along those lines. I should also like to 
avail myself of this opportunity to pay homage to the 
efforts of my compatriot, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, and to 
reiterate  our  support  to  his  successor,  Mr.  Staffan  de 
Mistura.
12/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
The ninth Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Weapons  should 
focus  on  the  close,  complementary  nature  of  the 
objectives of disarmament, non-proliferation of nuclear 
weapons and the promotion of the peaceful uses of the 
atom.  Let  there  be  no  doubt  that  much  remains  to  be 
done when it comes to freeing the world of weapons of 
mass destruction.
Algeria, as a member of the Human Rights Council, 
is  motivated  by  a  strong  sense  of  responsibility  to 
participate actively in the promotion of the universal and 
interdependent  nature  of  human  rights.  The  President 
of  the  Republic,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bouteflika,  and 
the  Algerian  authorities  are  working  hard  to  improve 
the  living  conditions  of  Algerian  citizens  in  many 
different areas. We have laws that criminalize violence 
against women and children, and we are strengthening 
the  protection  of  the  rights  of  divorced  women  and 
other  legislative  efforts  that  add  to  our  political  and 
institutional  success  in  supporting  Algerian  women. 
We  have  been  addressing  such  matters  in  our  elected 
bodies and our central Government.
The celebration in 2015 of the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations  should  be  an  opportunity  to 
renew the commitment of all Member States to bring 
new  and  stronger  vigour,  efficacy  and  credibility  to 
multilateralism.  We  have  the  joint  responsibility  to 
work  to  establish  a  world  that  is  safer  and  fairer  and 
shows  more  solidarity.  This  powerful  juncture,  at 
which we bring together all of our peoples within the 
fold of our founding values, should also be confirmed 
by  action.  There  are  apprehensions,  uncertainties  and 
challenges  tied  to  fear  and  need,  but  if  we  face  up  to 
them  the  United  Nations  will  certainly  live  up  to  its 
role as the last haven for the hope of humankind in a 
better future.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oldemiro  Marques  Balói, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Republic of Mozambique.
Mr. Balói (Mozambique): It is a great honour for 
me to address the General Assembly on behalf of His 
Excellency Mr. Armando Emilio Guebuza, President of 
the Republic of Mozambique, who could not attend this 
gathering owing to national commitments. However, he 
wishes the General Assembly successful deliberations 
at this session.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa,  a  distinguished  son  of  our  sisterly  country, 
Uganda, on his unanimous election to preside over this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  firmly  believe 
that  his  vision,  wisdom  and  leadership  will  guide  us 
to a comprehensive and results-oriented transformative 
development  agenda.  I  assure  him  of  the  full  support 
and collaboration of the delegation of Mozambique in 
the fulfilment of his noble mission.
I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  Ambassador  John 
William  Ashe  for  his  devotion  and  for  the  pragmatic 
manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the  sixty-eighth 
session  of  this  body,  and  for  his  relentless  efforts 
constructively  to  guide  the  ongoing  debate  on  the 
architecture of the next development agenda.
The  year  2015  will  be  a  historic  one,  since  the 
United  Nations  will  reach  the  landmark  celebration 
of  its  seventieth  anniversary.  That  celebration  will  be 
enriched by the goal set in the year 2000 to halve poverty 
rates  in  the  world  by  the  year  2015,  the  conclusion 
of  the  next  development  agenda,  and  the  adoption  of 
a  new  framework  for  climate  change.  In  that  regard, 
we  welcome  the  theme  for  this  session,  “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”,  as  it  will  enhance  the  ongoing 
deliberations under the United Nations umbrella on the 
next development agenda, galvanized by regional and 
subregional visions on that important topic.
implementing  a 
In  our  deliberations,  the  results  and  challenges 
experienced in the implementation of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  will  undoubtedly  be 
referenced in shaping the next development agenda. We 
recognize  that  much  has  been  done  in  the  framework 
of  the  MDGs.  However,  apart  from  accelerating  the 
achievement  of  all  goals,  it  is  important  to  guarantee 
the  sustainability  of  those  that  were  achieved  and 
accelerate  the  implementation  of  those  that  are  still 
lagging behind. It is our strong belief that the principle 
of inclusiveness must also be taken into consideration 
in  order  to  build  a  common  vision  and  to  ensure 
global commitments and shared responsibilities in the 
implementation of the next development agenda.
To  that  end,  Mozambique  undertook  a  national 
consultation  process  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  a  process 
that 
sustainable  development  can  be  achieved  only  with 
a  shared  responsibility  between  Governments,  civil 
society and the private sector. Mozambique’s national 
that  echoes  our  vision 
14-55132
13/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
consultation  process  resulted  in  a  robust  call  for  the 
next  development  agenda  to  list  the  eradication  of 
poverty as its overarching objective. To achieve that, it 
should  ensure  the  promotion  of  equitable,  sustainable 
and  inclusive  economic  growth,  focusing  on  women 
and youth.
The consultation also emphasized the need for the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger,  translated  into  the 
improvement  of  living  standards  through  access  to 
better social services such as education, health, social 
welfare,  safe  drinking  water,  sanitation  and  energy; 
the  preservation  of  peace  and  political  stability,  the 
promotion of democracy and the protection of human 
rights; economic diversification and transformation to 
speed  up  technological  modernization  in  sectors  such 
as  agriculture,  industry,  tourism  and  infrastructures; 
the  protection  of  marine  and 
land  biodiversity, 
including  the  sustainable  use  of  natural  resources; 
effective partnership for development, particularly for 
access  to  science,  technology  and  innovation;  further 
enhancement  of  North-South  cooperation, 
the 
framework of global partnership in order to commit the 
developed  countries  to  meeting  their  internationally 
agreed development goals obligations; the strengthening 
of  South-South  cooperation;  and,  finally,  agreement 
on  a  common  methodology  to  monitor  and  evaluate 
national progress.
in 
In addition, the experiences and challenges we faced 
in the implementation of the MDGs — particularly in 
the  accomplishment  of  Goal  8,  “A  global  partnership 
for  development”  —  underline  the  need  for  a  greater 
commitment  on  the  part  of  our  development  partners 
to  increase  their  official  development  assistance,  and 
for  funding  climate  resilience  and  disaster-prevention 
efforts in developing countries. A transformative post-
2015  development  agenda  should  include  the  need  to 
strengthen  its  financing  mechanisms,  concomitant 
with  the  need  to  raise  the  contribution  for  domestic 
financing.  Those  expectations  coincide  with 
the 
emerging  common  vision  at  the  subregional,  regional 
and  global  levels.  Therefore,  we  have  a  premonition 
that the agenda will be adequately inclusive and bring 
the much-needed transformation to deliver a world that 
is truly fit for all.
At this critical juncture, the successful conclusion of 
the Doha Development Round is a matter of urgency. Its 
contribution to the materialization of the development 
agenda  as  a  whole  cannot  be  overemphasized.  In  that 
regard, we are encouraged by the attempts of the World 
Trade  Organization  to  restore  the  Doha  negotiations 
and  by  the  adoption  of  the  Bali  package,  which  are 
fundamental  steps  in  the  architecture  of  the  Doha 
Round.
We  are  also  encouraged  by  the  positive  trends  in 
the  development  of  Africa.  As  the  Secretary-General 
states  in  his  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/69/1), Africa continues to make steady development 
gains. Economic growth reached 4 per cent in 2013 and 
is projected to reach 5.3 per cent in 2014. Foreign direct 
investment  increased,  and  substantial  progress  has 
been made towards the attainment of the MDGs.
If those positive developments are to be sustained, 
a  transformative  development  agenda  should  reflect 
Africa’s priorities and special needs, as expressed in its 
Common Position on the post-2015 development agenda. 
In  addition,  that  encouraging  environment  can  be 
possible only in the context of peace, political stability, 
democracy and respect for human rights. Therefore, we 
regret  that  conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and  the 
rebuilding  of  war-torn  States  remain  among  the  most 
complex challenges facing the United Nations and the 
international community at large.
Indeed,  this  session  takes  place  in  the  context 
of  grave  instability  and  conflicts  in  the  world,  with 
enormous  economic  costs  and  severe  humanitarian 
consequences 
that  are  unacceptable.  Additionally, 
the complexity of some conflicts poses a challenge to 
the  authority  of  the  United  Nations  and  consequently 
undermines the founding principles of the Organization 
as  well  as  the  role  of  multilateralism  in  addressing 
global concerns.
We have been challenged by the dramatic evolution 
in the strands of terrorism threats, which spare no part 
of  the  world.  Therefore,  Mozambique  welcomes  the 
adoption, at the 7272nd meeting of the Security Council, 
held on 24 September, of resolution 2178 (2014), which 
calls for an urgent boost in international cooperation to 
prevent the support and flow of terrorist fighters to and 
from conflict zones.
As  we  craft  our  collective  strategy  to  deal  with 
all  forms  and  manifestation  of  that  human  scourge, 
we  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  following  elements. 
First is the need to strengthen multilateral approaches 
in  full  compliance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Secondly,  the  root  causes  of  terrorism  must 
be addressed, as that scourge cannot and should not be 
associated with any religion, nationality or civilization. 
14/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
Thirdly,  it  is  necessary  to  address  the  underlying 
conditions, such as poverty, injustice, social exclusion 
and  marginalization,  that  serve  as  fertile  ground  for 
extremist ideologies to breed and thrive.
In  an 
interdependent  and  globalized  world, 
multilateralism refers to the collective and cooperative 
actions  needed  to  address  global  challenges  in  a 
transparent,  inclusive  and  effective  manner,  thereby 
contributing  to  order,  stability  and  predictability.  In 
that context, the United Nations must be strengthened 
in  order  to  continue  effectively  to  play  its  role  as  the 
epicentre  of  multilateralism.  Today  more  than  ever 
before, we must take concrete actions to reinforce the 
strategic role of the United Nations in the architecture 
of the global world.
Notwithstanding  the  prevailing  challenges  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, we are 
encouraged by the efforts in place for the restoration of 
peace  and  stability  in  Mali,  Somalia,  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic, 
the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan.  We  are  also  encouraged 
by  the  latest  developments  in  Guinea-Bissau  as  a 
result  of  the  general  elections  that  prompted  the 
promising  first  steps  towards  much-needed  political 
stability — a precondition for that sisterly country to 
progress  towards  socioeconomic  development.  These 
achievements  call  our  attention  to  the  importance 
of  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union and with the subregional 
bodies in effectively addressing the range of conflict-
management  problems  through  preventive  diplomacy 
and mediation initiatives that allow for rapid responses 
to regional and subregional crises.
The  principle  of  the  right  to  self-determination 
continues to be central to the full enjoyment of human 
rights.  In  that  context,  the  United  Nations  ought  to 
continue  to  be  engaged  in  the  fulfilment  of  those 
rights by the peoples of Palestine and Western Sahara. 
Mozambique  reiterates  its  full  support  for  a  just  and 
lasting  solution  to  the  problem  of  Palestine  through 
peaceful  means,  in  accordance  with  international  law 
and all the relevant resolutions of the United Nations.
With regard to Western Sahara, we are encouraged 
to  note  the  initiative  taken  by  the  Chairperson  of 
the  African  Union  in  appointing  His  Excellency 
Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, former President of the 
Republic of Mozambique, as a special envoy to the five 
permanent members of the Security Council plus Spain, 
in an effort to step up the search for a solution that will 
ensure the fulfilment of the right of the Saharan people 
to self-determination, for which Mozambique reaffirms 
its unconditional support.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my statement, 
the advent of 2015 represents a historic opportunity for 
the United Nations to reshape global commitments in 
many ways. As we celebrate the seventieth anniversary 
of the Organization, we must use the momentum to take 
concrete steps to accelerate, in a sustained manner, the 
ongoing  process  of  reforms  in  the  Organization,  in 
particular the reform of the Security Council.
The inability of the United Nations to solve conflict 
situations  and  political  instability  in  the  Middle  East 
and Eastern Europe poses a challenge to its authority 
as the universal entity and multilateral political forum 
for fostering dialogue in a multilateral framework. The 
situation is worsened by the lack of substantive progress 
in the reform of the Security Council, almost 15 years 
after the international community recommitted itself to 
that important endeavour. It is our hope that at its sixty-
ninth  session  the  General  Assembly  will  deliver  the 
much-awaited reform to democratize its representation 
and  working  methods  and  to  strengthen  its  role  in 
conflict prevention and the promotion of international 
peace and security.
Freedom of choice with regard to political systems 
and  to  trade  is  an  inalienable  right  of  all  States, 
irrespective of their size. In that connection, the need to 
bring to an end the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba continues to be a matter of concern, for it 
is politically motivated and hinders the socioeconomic 
development of Cuba. For those reasons, Mozambique 
joins  all  those  countries  that  demand  the  immediate 
termination of that unfair unilateral measure.
Mozambique  is  fully  committed  to  the  global 
agenda  for  peace  and  security,  democracy  and 
sustainable  development.  At  the  national  level  that 
commitment  is  translated  into  our  political  will  to 
strengthen  democracy  in  the  country  and  to  adopt  a 
poverty-reduction  strategy  that  is  people-centred  and 
promotes  sustainable  development.  The  regularity 
with which elections at different levels are held shows 
our  unquestionable  determination  to  consolidate  the 
democratic system and defend its underlying values. As 
a result, on 15 October Mozambique will hold its fifth 
multiparty general elections to elect the President and 
the Parliament, and its second elections for provincial 
parliaments.
14-55132
15/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
In the economic sphere, Mozambique has enjoyed 
steady  economic  growth  for  more  than  a  decade. 
Coupled with the support of our development partners, 
including  the  United  Nations,  that  has  allowed  for  an 
improvement  in  social  services  delivery  and  enabled 
us to be on track to attain the majority the MDGs. In 
addition, recently discovered natural resources represent 
a  challenge  and  an  opportunity  to  further  advance 
national  socioeconomic  progress.  The  development 
of  new  sources  of  clean  and  renewable  energy  such 
as bio-fuels is a priority for the Government, and due 
attention  is  being  paid  to  prevent  competition  with 
food-production initiatives.
Therefore,  we  are  emphasizing  the  following 
areas:  the  improvement  of  agriculture  production  and 
productivity  in  a  sector  that  will  continue  to  play  a 
key  role  in  our  development  efforts;  human  capital 
development  to  address  the  new  emerging  economic 
challenges; and the promotion of a strong private sector 
to take advantage of the opportunities brought about by 
the discovery and exploitation of natural resources. It 
is our firm conviction that, with peace and stability, we 
will continue successfully to address the development 
challenges  facing  Mozambique,  which  have  poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development  at 
their 
epicentre.
Finally,  as  part  of  our  commitment  to  peace  and 
stability, in June Mozambique hosted the third Review 
Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on 
the  Prohibition  of  the  Use,  Stockpiling,  Production 
and  Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and  on  Their 
Destruction,  also  known  as  the  Ottawa  Convention. 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
participants  as  well  as  all  partners  that  contributed 
to  making  that  event  a  success,  because  it  was.  We 
are  engaged  in  continuing  our  efforts  to  declare  the 
country free of landmines and thus to contribute to the 
fulfilment  of  one  of  the  most  important  steps  in  our 
obligations under the Convention.
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  reiterate  Mozambique’s 
commitment to continue to be engaged in international 
efforts to address current global problems.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rui  Machete,  Minister  of 
State and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Portugal.
Mr.  Machete  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese: 
English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, I 
should like to congratulate the President on his election, 
which testifies to the strong commitment of Africa to 
the United Nations and to multilateralism. I also wish 
to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  dedication  to  the 
Assembly of his predecessor Ambassador John Ashe. I 
reiterate my gratitude to the Secretary-General for his 
leadership at the helm of our Organization and for his 
relentless efforts in favour of peace in such a difficult 
and complex time in international life. I commend him 
also  for  convening  the  Climate  Summit,  which  has 
renewed political support for the achievement in 2015 of 
a fair, universal and legally binding climate agreement. 
Portugal,  and  the  European  Union  as  a  whole,  will 
continue to work tirelessly and in an inclusive manner 
towards the achievement of that goal.
During this session, we face the enormous challenge 
the  Millennium 
of  renewing  and  building  upon 
Development Goals (MDGs), with a view to adopting 
the post-2015 development agenda. The President may 
count on the support and commitment of Portugal on that 
and other issues and in the ongoing work of the General 
Assembly,  which  is  the  first  home  of  multilateralism 
and  of  legitimate  international  collective  action.  The 
commitment of Portugal to the United Nations, to the 
Charter and to its principles and values is firm, resolute 
and enduring.
At this Assembly session, Portugal is a candidate 
for the Human Rights Council for the 2015-2017 term. 
We  hope  to  have  the  support  of  all  members  in  the 
upcoming election. If elected, Portugal will be serving 
for  the  first  time  as  a  member  of  such  an  important 
body.
Last April Portugal underwent its second Universal 
Periodic  Review  by  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Our 
positive  national  human  rights  record  was  widely 
acknowledged.  Portugal  has  actively  participated  in 
multilateral  human  rights  forums,  in  particular  in  the 
Human Rights Council, submitting annual resolutions 
on the right to education and on economic, social and 
cultural  rights.  We  hope  to  be  able  to  make  an  even 
greater contribution to the Human Rights Council over 
the  coming  three  years,  as  we  deeply  believe  in  the 
Council’s ability to strengthen the capacity of States to 
comply with their human rights obligations.
In that context, Portugal has submitted a bold set of 
pledges and commitments that will guide the discharge 
of  our  mandate  with  the  purpose  of  promoting  and 
protecting the universality, indivisibility, inalienability 
and  interdependence  of  all  human  rights  —  civil, 
cultural,  economic,  political  and  social.  Through  our 
16/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
actions during our last mandate in the Security Council, 
in  2011  and  2012,  we  demonstrated  that  consistently 
promoting and upholding human rights was a priority 
for us. If elected to the Human Rights Council, Portugal 
will  engage  in  its  work,  fully  committed  to  a  strong, 
independent  and  effective  multilateral  human  rights 
system. Portugal is in fact a party without reservations 
to eight core United Nations human rights treaties and 
all their optional protocols.
We continue to witness events that we expected to 
see eradicated in the twenty-first century — large-scale 
human  rights  violations, 
the  deprivation  of  vast 
populations  of  their  most  elementary  dignity,  and  a 
disregard for basic international principles such as the 
territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  of  States.  Today 
the Charter of the United Nations remains as relevant 
as it was 69 years ago. In order to deal with the crises 
we  face  today  we  must  base  our  search  for  fair,  legal 
and  lasting  solutions  on  the  generous  and  ambitious 
principles  and  norms  of  the  Charter.  The  Charter 
offers the necessary institutional mechanisms, but their 
functioning  and  effectiveness  depend  on  the  political 
will of all Members of the Organization.
Terrorist, extremist and radical groups deserve our 
most  vehement  repudiation  and  condemnation.  They 
constitute, in the first instance, a threat to States and to 
the populations of the territories in which they are based. 
They also present a risk to regional and global peace, 
security and stability. That menace requires concerted 
and firm responses from the international community. 
The  self-proclaimed  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria 
(ISIS) is a sinister example of that kind of criminal and 
barbaric action. It must be fought and neutralized. The 
Security  Council  summit  and  resolution  2178  (2014), 
which  it  adopted  on  the  worrying  phenomenon  of 
foreign terrorist fighters, were important steps in that 
direction.
The  Middle  East  continues  to  require  special 
attention.  In  Iraq  we  have  been  witnessing  inhumane 
terrorist  actions  targeting  defenceless  populations, 
victimizing  mainly  women,  children  and  persons 
belonging  to  ethnic  and  religious  minorities.  The 
situation  in  Iraq  cannot  be  disconnected  from  the 
prolonged conflict in Syria, where the levels of violence 
and  suffering  are,  by  their  dimension  and  duration, 
beyond words. All parties must assume responsibility 
for  finding  a  political  transition  to  a  democratic  and 
pluralistic society.
in 
the 
Once  again  we  come  to  the  Assembly  without 
progress 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  The 
expectations that we all shared here a year ago have been 
dashed.  The  recurring  cycle  of  hostilities  must  come 
to  an  end.  The  conflict  we  saw  in  Gaza  this  summer 
must not happen again. I wish to take this opportunity 
to congratulate Egypt for brokering the ceasefire and to 
recognize the efforts of other regional and international 
partners,  including  the  Secretary-General  and  United 
States Secretary of State John Kerry.
There  will  be  no  lasting  peace  or  stability  in 
the  Middle  East  without  a  solution  to  that  issue.  I 
reiterate my country’s support for a solution based on 
United  Nations  resolutions,  establishing  a  sovereign, 
independent and viable Palestinian State, living side by 
side with the State of Israel, whose legitimate security 
concerns must be guaranteed.
The positive signs that we saw a year ago regarding 
the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  were  confirmed  with 
the  signing  of  the  Joint  Plan  of  Action  in  Geneva.  A 
new political impetus is now needed. Portugal supports 
and encourages the ongoing negotiations with a view to 
a comprehensive agreement.
The  events  of  2010  and  2011  in  Northern  Africa 
had  an  unprecedented  political,  economic  and  social 
impact.  The  countries  there  are  now  confronted  with 
significant challenges with regard to the consolidation 
of political reforms, sustainable economic growth and 
security. Portugal is currently co-chairing the Western 
Mediterranean Forum, also known as the 5+5 Dialogue, 
which  brings  together  10  countries  from  the  northern 
and  southern  shores  of  the  Mediterranean.  We  wish 
to  strengthen  the  contribution  of  that  platform  to  the 
enhancement  of  cooperation  and  confidence-building 
among its countries.
Libya is an important partner in that Forum, and it 
is with great concern that we see the deterioration of the 
situation in that country. The international community 
must  give  its  assistance  to  the  political  transition 
process, but it is paramount that all Libyan stakeholders 
commit  to  an  inclusive,  genuine  and  fruitful  national 
dialogue.
In  Europe,  the  Ukrainian  crisis  and  the  illegal 
annexation  of  Crimea  brought  back  tensions  that  we 
thought  were  outdated.  We  welcome  the  ceasefire 
agreement  and  appeal  for  its  full  implementation. 
Portugal  encourages  the  parties  actively  to  seek  a 
14-55132
17/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
lasting political solution that respects the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity, unity and democracy in Ukraine.
Africa 
is  a  significant  partner  for  Portugal. 
African States are not only political partners but also, 
increasingly,  business  and  investment  partners  in  a 
relationship based on parity and mutual benefits, which 
drive  job  creation  and  economic  development.  While 
fully  respecting  Africa’s  ownership,  we  also  seek  to 
contribute  to  international  efforts,  notably  those  of 
the  United  Nations,  aimed  at  stabilizing  conflicts  or 
preventing security risks in Africa. Therefore, Portugal 
is participating in the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali. We also stand 
ready to engage in multinational efforts to strengthen 
security  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  and  we  are  willing 
to  cooperate  in  the  reinforcement  of  the  maritime 
capacities of the countries of the region.
In recent months we have received good news from 
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, a friendly country and 
member  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  (CPLP).  The  restoration  of  constitutional 
order, the holding of free elections and the inauguration 
of legitimate democratic institutions, two years after the 
April 2012 coup d’état, are surely praiseworthy signs of 
hope. The enormous socioeconomic difficulties and the 
recurrent  and  severe  political  instability  that  Guinea-
Bissau has been suffering for a decade and a half did 
not prevent the people from electing their new leaders 
through free, transparent and orderly elections.
The  opportunity  to  turn  the  page  of  history  must 
now  be  seized.  The  people  of  Guinea-Bissau  and  the 
authorities are taking the right steps. Consolidating the 
progress achieved requires support from the international 
community. International partners can and must play a 
decisive role in areas such as financial assistance and 
building technical capacity, underpinning the priorities 
identified by Guinea-Bissau. Further, we believe that a 
stabilization force based on the Economic Community 
of West African States (ECOWAS) Mission in Guinea-
Bissau,  possibly  enlarged  to  incorporate  new  African 
partners  and  mandated  by  the  United  Nations,  would 
be  appropriate.  Therefore  we  welcome  the  initiatives 
supporting  Guinea-Bissau  undertaken  by  the  United 
Nations, together with, in particular, the African Union, 
the CPLP, ECOWAS and the European Union.
of  those  Goals  while  at  the  same  time  preparing 
a  new  development  agenda.  Portugal  is  strongly 
committed  to  the  definition  of  that  new  agenda.  We 
need  a  transformative  new  global  partnership  that 
mainstreams human rights and combats inequalities. It 
should also promote peaceful, stable and just societies, 
advancing also the important issues of population and 
development.  Universality  and  shared  responsibility 
are key concepts in that regard. But the universality of 
the  post-2015  agenda  should  not  be  synonymous  with 
insensitivity to the specificities of the least developed 
and  most  vulnerable  countries,  such  as  small  island 
developing States.
New  challenges  such  as  climate  change,  illicit 
trafficking,  piracy  and  pandemics  are  major  threats 
in  today’s  world.  The  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  Western 
African countries demands strong, combined efforts by 
the  international  community  to  contain  and  eradicate 
that  plague.  Portugal  is  participating  in  the  current 
urgent  global  effort,  notably  in  Guinea  and  in  the 
framework of the United Nations operation.
Despite  the  efforts  of  previous  Presidents,  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  not  yet  happened. 
Portugal’s  position  on  that  subject  is  well  known.  In 
spite  of  persistent  differences  of  approach  among  the 
membership,  we  must  not  give  up.  Together  we  must 
find  a  solution,  making  the  Security  Council  a  body 
more  representative  of  today’s  world.  The  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations is an opportunity to 
bring about Security Council reform.
Portugal is by tradition a seafaring nation and has 
recently  adopted  a  new  national  maritime  strategy 
focusing  on  blue  growth.  We  actively  support  United 
Nations  efforts  for  the  sustainable  management  of 
the  oceans  and  their  resources,  and  we  co-chair  the 
working group that will complete the first global report 
of the marine environment. We advocate the adoption 
of  an  international  instrument,  in  the  framework  of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine 
biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  In 
June 2015 Portugal will organize a major international 
event on oceans, the “Blue Week”, to promote debate 
on  maritime  issues  in  all  their  dimensions.  We  look 
forward to broad participation in that event.
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  made  the  historic  and  inspiring  decision 
to adopt the Millennium Development Goals. We now 
have  the  responsibility  to  accelerate  the  achievement 
The Portuguese language is the principal link that 
brings together the States belonging to the Community 
of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries.  It  is  a  vehicle  for 
global  communication  spoken  by  about  250  million 
18/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
people  in  their  everyday  lives,  in  commerce,  trade, 
business,  culture  and  social  networks.  It  is  also  an 
official  or  working  language  in  various  international 
organizations,  including  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United Nations. The CPLP has the ambition of having 
Portuguese as an official language of the United Nations. 
The summit in Dili last July confirmed the vitality of 
the  CPLP.  On  that  occasion  Timor-Leste  assumed  the 
presidency  of  the  Community,  thus  lending  a  whole 
new  dimension  and  scope  to  the  CPLP  by  having  its 
presidency located for the first time in Asia.
I  would  be  remiss  not  to  refer  to  the  fact  that  on 
20  November  we  will  be  celebrating  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Rights  of  the  Child.  Portugal  is  a  party  to  that 
instrument without reservations, as well as to its three 
Optional Protocols. I take this opportunity to call for 
the  universal  ratification  of  the  Convention  and  its 
Optional Protocols.
During  this  sixty-ninth  session  we  will  also  have 
before  us  a  new  draft  resolution  on  establishing  a 
moratorium on the use of the death penalty. We hope 
the draft resolution continues to enjoy significant and 
increased support this year.
If  we  become  a  member  of  the  United  Nations 
Human  Rights  Council  as  we  hope,  we  will  act  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  cooperation  and 
dialogue.  We  will  engage  with  all  States  and  other 
stakeholders  in  order  to  build  bridges  for  the  full 
implementation of human rights norms and standards. 
If  we  garner  the  trust  of  the  Assembly,  it  will  be  a 
privilege to work, as a Council member, with the new 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, to whom I reiterate our 
full support. I also wish to pay a special tribute to the 
former  High  Commissioner,  Ms.  Navi  Pillay,  for  her 
outstanding  job,  often  accomplished  in  particularly 
difficult circumstances.
I  conclude  with  a  reference  to  the  First  World 
War,  a  tragic  event  mentioned  at  the  very  beginning 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter  when  it  affirms  the 
determination “to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought 
untold sorrow to mankind”. As we mark the centenary 
of  the  First  World  War  and  prepare  the  celebration 
of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our  Organization, 
we  must  bear  in  mind  and  reflect  carefully  on  those 
words  of  the  Charter.  The  President  can  count  on 
Portugal’s commitment to the purposes and principles 
of the Charter in the pursuit of peace, development and 
respect for all human rights.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Lubomír Zaoríálek, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic.
Mr. Zaoríálek (Czech Republic): This year marks 
the  100th  anniversary  of  the  beginning  of  the  First 
World War. Yet in today’s world we are far from having 
achieved global peace. It therefore remains a major task 
for the international community to achieve it. But that 
is  not  the  only  task  that  remains.  In  order  to  achieve 
global peace we also have to tackle two other equally 
important challenges, namely, to preserve global human 
dignity, and global prosperity.
I would like to start with global security. Europe is 
the continent that gave birth to the two most disastrous 
conflicts 
in  human  history.  We  Europeans  have 
learned  our  lesson.  A  large  part  of  our  continent  has 
been spared violent conflicts for almost 70 years. My 
country celebrates 25 years since our return to freedom 
and democracy in 1989.
Yet  even  today  a  part  of  Europe  is  at  war.  The 
territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine,  guaranteed  by  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Budapest 
Memorandum  of  1994,  was  violated  by  the  Russian 
annexation  of  Crimea  and  the  activities  of  Russian-
backed  paramilitary  separatist  forces 
in  eastern 
Ukraine.  Despite  the  present  armistice,  we  believe 
that  it  is  still  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community to seek the de-escalation of a conflict that 
has caused enormous suffering to the people of Ukraine 
and the loss of innocent lives of Ukrainians and other 
people,  as  demonstrated  by  the  downing  of  Malaysia 
Airlines Flight MH-17.
That  is  not  all.  We  are  alarmed  at  the  continuing 
aggravation of the security situation in northern Iraq. 
We  condemn  the  brutal  acts  of  violence  committed 
by  the  so-called  Islamic  State  against  local  ethnic 
and  religious  minorities,  as  well  as  the  murders  of 
two  innocent  journalists  and  a  humanitarian  activist. 
Those  acts  constitute  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity. As we are currently seeing in Iraq, terrorism 
has taken on a new dimension, and we must counter it 
with the utmost determination. Therefore, we welcome 
President Obama’s strategy as well as other important 
international  activities  in  that  regard,  including  the 
Security  Council  summit  on  foreign  terrorist  fighters 
(see S/PV.7272).
14-55132
19/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
With regard to Syria, we believe that the only way 
to achieve a stable peace in that war-torn country and 
to  ensure  much-needed  safety  and  legitimate  rights 
for  all  Syrian  people  is  through  a  negotiated  political 
settlement  between  the  Syrian  Government  and  the 
democratic  opposition.  The  Czech  Republic,  appalled 
by  the  atrocities  committed  by  the  so-called  Islamic 
State, urges all sides of the conflict in Syria to cease 
violence and to start cooperating with the new United 
Nations Special Envoy in order to find a lasting solution.
Moreover, we must not omit the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict.  We  remain  deeply  concerned  about  the 
humanitarian consequences of the conflict in the Gaza 
Strip. We have made an effort to provide assistance to 
the  victims  through  humanitarian  aid.  However,  first 
and foremost, the Palestinian and Israeli leaders have 
to make every effort, with the help of the international 
community,  to  renew  genuine  and  comprehensive 
negotiations.  That  is  the  only  way  to  reach  a  lasting 
solution that would bring about peace, dignity, security 
and prosperity for both Israelis and Palestinians.
But there is also something else: the global dignity 
of human beings. In speaking of acts of violence — and 
the list I have provided is far from being exhaustive — we 
must  keep  looking  for  the  causes  behind  those  acts 
and  seek  to  eliminate  them.  We  often  see  that  such 
acts  result  from  despair  and  from  a  lack  of  the  basic 
needs  necessary  to  ensure  human  dignity,  needs 
such  as  physical  integrity,  access  to  justice,  political 
participation and basic freedoms, and also food, water, 
medical  care,  education,  tolerable  working  conditions 
and  protection  against  discrimination  on  various 
grounds.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community,  represented  by  the  United  Nations,  to 
ensure that human dignity remains not only a declared 
principle of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
but is also put into practice worldwide. I am proud that 
my country can contribute to those efforts, building on 
the humanist legacy of my great compatriots, the first 
Czechoslovak President, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, and 
the first President of the Czech Republic, Václav Havel.
The  first  precondition  for  human  dignity  is  the 
possibility  of  enjoying  life  without  threats  to  one’s 
physical  integrity  and  physical  suffering.  For  that 
reason  the  Czech  Republic  has  vigorously  supported 
the  concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect,  with  its 
strong dimension of prevention and capacity-building. 
Yet,  when  a  conflict  cannot  be  prevented  for  various 
reasons,  the  United  Nations  is  ultimately  responsible, 
through  its  peacekeeping  role,  for  preventing  the 
further  deterioration  of  the  situation,  loss  of  life  and 
human suffering. The Czech Republic has consistently 
participated in various European Union (EU) missions 
complementing  United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts, 
namely, in the EU Training Mission in Mali and in the 
Multinational Force and Observers mission in Sinai. I 
can assure members that we will remain involved in the 
future.
National  States  and  the  international  community 
share responsibility for protecting people from atrocities. 
However,  if  they  fail,  it  is  necessary  to  establish 
accountability  for  serious  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights.  The  Czech 
Republic  continues  firmly  to  support  international 
criminal justice and the International Criminal Court. 
Our primary task is to combat impunity and to enforce 
the  protection  of  civilians  and  vulnerable  groups  in 
armed conflicts.
It  is  a  sad  reality  that  in  too  many  parts  of  the 
world  women  are  among  the  most  vulnerable  groups. 
We  continue  to  witness  horrifying  cases  of  violence 
against women and girls, including sexual violence. We 
call on all States to adopt urgent measures to prevent 
such  abhorrent  incidents.  When  women  are  excluded 
from  society  and  prevented  from  enjoying  basic 
rights, participating in public life or simply exercising 
a  profession,  it  has  a  massive  impact  not  only  on  the 
country’s development but also on its overall stability. 
We expect the relevant United Nations bodies to step up 
their efforts to ensure a peaceful and dignified life for 
all, including women.
In  order  to  reinforce  the  prevention  of  various 
types  of  conflicts,  we  fully  support  the  Rights  Up 
Front initiative launched by the Secretary-General. We 
understand that it is an appeal to the United Nations and 
its bodies and to Member States to ensure respect for 
human rights, good governance, fair and free elections 
and  genuine  participation  in  decision-making  without 
discrimination.  The  Czech  Republic,  as  a  member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  has  for  the  second 
time  presented  a  consensual  resolution  on  political 
participation. In our view, giving everybody a chance 
to  enjoy  their  civil  and  political  rights  through  such 
participation  is  essential  for  building  inclusive  and 
truly cohesive societies.
A life of peace and dignity is unthinkable without 
the  enjoyment  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
rights. That can be achieved by fighting poverty, social 
20/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
exclusion and all forms of discrimination and illiteracy. 
I  am  convinced  that  the  Czech  Republic  has  a  lot  to 
offer in that respect. We are among the countries with 
the most equal distribution of wealth in the world. We 
are also a country with one of the lowest risks of falling 
into poverty in the world. We have managed to maintain 
a socially cohesive society, and we believe that that is 
one reason why our society is free of serious tensions 
resulting in violent conflicts. We want to contribute our 
experience to the efforts of the international community 
in order to build fair and prosperous societies across the 
planet.
The  key  to  building  a  fair  society  is  sustainable 
development.  To  that  end,  we  are  committed  to 
working on a post-2015 development agenda that will 
formulate sustainable development goals based on the 
2000  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  goals  will 
be  global  in  nature,  universally  applicable  and  will 
address  persistent  inequalities  and  new  challenges 
facing  people  and  our  planet.  The  promotion  of  good 
governance,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  must  remain  among  the 
stand-alone  priorities,  but  they  are  also  cross-cutting 
issues linking various agendas. In that context, we look 
forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s  synthesis  report 
expected by the end of the year.
The  Czech  Republic  expects  that  the  sustainable 
development  goals  will  have  a  true  impact  on  the 
fashioning of a development policy that will correspond 
to the needs of present generations and improve their 
quality  of  life,  but  will  not  compromise  the  ability 
of  future  generations  to  meet  their  own  needs.  All 
countries, rich and poor, should therefore be committed 
to  creating  an  economically  viable  yet  more  socially 
and environmentally sustainable future. We hope to be 
able to take part in that effort through our membership 
in the Economic and Social Council, to which we are 
candidates for membership starting in 2016.
We  are  also  actively  involved  in  the  EU  and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, and we are ready to support all the proposals 
and  solutions  that  are  considered  most  effective  to 
reach  the  new  global  climate  agreement,  hopefully  to 
be concluded in Paris in 2015.
I began by recalling the First World War and continued 
by enumerating three major challenges — global peace, 
global human dignity and global prosperity. They are 
enormous  challenges.  The  United  Nations  has  done 
impressive  work  in  fostering  peace,  human  dignity 
and sustainable development. I am confident that next 
year,  when  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the Charter of the United Nations, we will have an 
opportunity  not  only  to  reflect  honestly  on  where  we 
could do better, but also to appreciate the progress that 
we have made together.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Arnold Nicholson, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Jamaica.
Mr.  Nicholson  (Jamaica):  I  stand  here  today,  as 
a  representative  of  a  nation  with  strong  ancestral  ties 
to  the  African  continent,  to  welcome  the  election 
of  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  are  confident 
that  the  experience  and  skills  that  he  brings  to  that 
high Office will be invaluable as we tackle the myriad 
challenges  that  confront  us  today.  To  his  predecessor 
Ambassador  John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  I 
also convey sincere appreciation for the leadership and 
vision that he showed in guiding our work, not the least 
of  which  was  the  success  he  achieved  in  setting  the 
stage for the post-2015 development agenda.
The quest for peace and development has assumed 
an  urgency  we  have  seldom  seen.  We  live  in  a  time 
of  great  instability  and  conflict.  At  the  same  time, 
millions of citizens face unbearable levels of hardship 
and  endure  unconscionable  levels  of  suffering.  Far 
too many of our fellow men and women are being left 
behind. It rests within our grasp to build a better future 
for our peoples. This is the time to put people firmly at 
the centre of our development aspirations, to tackle the 
root causes of conflict, to create a culture of peace and 
to entrench the principles of justice, equity, democracy 
and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  Recommitment  to  the 
principles of multilateralism and fidelity to the ideals 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  are 
central to our efforts to accomplish those goals.
In the coming months, our attention will be focused 
on  elaborating  an  international  development  agenda 
for  the  post-2015  period.  That  provides  an  invaluable 
opportunity for us to address the critical challenges of 
poverty, inequality, global insecurity and environmental 
degradation.  The  post-2015  development  agenda  must 
have  poverty  eradication  as  its  central  focus.  In  so 
doing,  we  must  give  due  regard  to  the  developmental 
status  of  each  country,  in  particular  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  and  countries  classified  as 
middle-income. Implementing and delivering the post-
14-55132
21/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
2015 development agenda requires a strong focus on the 
means of implementation.
The third International Conference on SIDS drew 
international  attention  to  the  unique  vulnerabilities 
that  threaten  the  very  existence  and  survival  of  that 
group of countries. Our ability to withstand the ever-
increasing risk of economic and environmental shocks 
requires that we forge effective partnerships with other 
members of the international community. In short, we 
cannot  do  the  job  alone.  Jamaica  therefore  welcomes 
the support of the international community in joining 
forces  with  SIDS  to  negotiate  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  Pathway,  which  builds  on  the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy.
though, 
in 
Let  me  say, 
that  support  for  SIDS 
must  continue  beyond  support  for  the  International 
Conference. Our concerns need to be addressed in the 
context of the post-2015 development agenda. Among 
those concerns are the full and effective integration of 
SIDS into the multilateral trading system, an increased 
voice  and  participation 
international  financial 
institutions,  the  application  of  more  relevant  methods 
for  measuring  growth  and  representing  our  state  of 
development,  and  increased  support  for  efforts  to 
enhance our resilience to natural hazards and economic 
shocks.
We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  Climate  Summit 
convened by the Secretary-General. The participation 
of  business  interests,  civil  society  and  a  range  of 
international  institutions  highlighted  the  importance 
of  promoting  concerted  action  among  various 
stakeholders  to  address  climate  change.  While  the 
threats  posed  by  climate  change  may  be  theoretical 
for  some,  they  are  very  real  for  those  of  us  who  live 
in the Caribbean. In recent years we have had to deal 
with  the  increased  frequency  of  hurricanes  and  their 
widespread impact on our land, lives and livelihoods. 
The financial impact of hurricanes adds to the burden 
of  the  dire  economic  challenges  that  we  continue  to 
bear.  Our  fellow  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
countries in the eastern Caribbean will no doubt share 
their  recent  experiences  with  floods  that  lasted  only 
a few hours last Christmas but caused gross domestic 
product losses from which they have yet to recover.
As  we  prepare  for  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change to be held in Lima later this year, all 
countries  must  be  engaged  in  a  cooperative  effort  to 
devise an appropriate response to climate change that 
will  result  in  a  steep  reduction  in  global  greenhouse 
gas emissions. We also need action to follow up on the 
additional document to be adopted by the Conference 
of the Parties, which may be a protocol, another legal 
instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force under 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change that will be applicable to all parties. In that we 
dare  not  fail.  Our  commitment  to  addressing  climate 
change must be given effect at the twenty-first session 
of the Conference of the Parties in Paris next year.
This  year  marks  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  the  most 
universally  ratified  human  rights  treaty.  The  year 
2014  also  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
historic  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development in Cairo. At the same time, we are on the 
cusp of the twentieth anniversary of the fourth World 
Conference  on  Women  in  Beijing,  to  be  celebrated 
in  2015.  This  is  therefore  an  opportune  moment  to 
evaluate the progress made in safeguarding the rights 
of  women  and  children.  All  children  have  the  right 
to  live  a  life  free  from  fear  and  violence.  That  is  the 
essential prerequisite for the development of their full 
range  of  skills  and  talents.  Earlier  this  year,  Jamaica 
was pleased to host, alongside the Secretary-General’s 
Special  Representative  on  Violence  against  Children, 
an  interregional  meeting  that  examined  the  impact 
of  violence  against  children.  I  urge  members,  as  we 
craft  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  to  be  seized 
of  the  importance  of  addressing  the  special  needs  of 
children  and  youth.  We  also  call  for  special  attention 
to  be  paid  to  achieving  gender  equality.  Rooting  out 
violence against women, enhancing women’s economic 
empowerment and promoting their equal participation 
at  all  levels  of  decision-making  should  be  essential 
tasks in that regard.
I  now  turn  to  the  problem  posed  by  the  heinous 
activity  of  human  trafficking,  a  crime  of  global 
proportions that exploits the most vulnerable among us, 
not the least of whom are women and children. Jamaica 
calls  upon  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  to  provide  a  framework  for  Member  States  to 
develop a robust programme to help to bring an end to 
that affront to human dignity and freedom.
We  cannot  ignore  the  link  between  our  efforts 
to  spur  development  and  the  need  to  safeguard  the 
health  of  our  people.  The  challenges  to  security  and 
sustainable  development  posed  by  threats  to  global 
22/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
public health have been devastatingly illustrated by the 
recent outbreak of the Ebola epidemic. As we heard just 
two days ago from the Director-General of the World 
Health Organization, every day, every minute, counts 
in  fighting  the  most  severe  public-health  emergency 
seen in modern times. This is the time for courageous 
partnership, not inaction based on fear. An urgent and 
robust international response is required to marshal all 
the medical expertise and modern technologies that are 
at our disposal. The pandemic nature of global health 
threats  such  as  Ebola  and  HIV/AIDS,  including  the 
silent  killers  of  non-communicable  diseases,  require 
that  we  employ  measures  to  combat  them  that  are 
similar  in  intensity  and  urgency  to  those  used  in  the 
fight against other global challenges.
Jamaica is concerned that the conflicts in Syria, the 
Gaza Strip, Iraq, Ukraine, South Sudan and Mali pose 
serious  threats  to  regional  and  international  security. 
Those conflicts are neither limited in scope nor confined 
to  national  borders.  The  instability  in  Libya,  Yemen 
and the Central African Republic is equally troubling. 
Of even greater concern are the resulting humanitarian 
crises and the widespread violations of human rights. It 
is undeniable that those crises are fuelled by the growing 
propensity to funnel and transfer conventional arms to 
non-State actors, including rebel groups and separatist 
militias. The militarization of such groups often serves 
to further those conflicts rather than hasten their end.
Each  passing  day,  the  international  community  is 
confronted  with  new  crises,  the  emergence  of  greater 
acts of barbarism, and the rise of more lethal terrorist 
groups. In the past few months, we have witnessed the 
atrocities  of  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant 
and the downing of a civilian aircraft in Ukraine and 
a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  helicopter  in  South 
Sudan. We also dare not forget that it is now 166 days 
since the Boko Haram terrorist group brazenly abducted 
200 schoolgirls, yet their desperate plight continues.
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  number  and  scale  of 
those  crises  not  only  place  extraordinary  demands 
on  the  international  aid  system,  thereby  hampering 
its  capacity  to  respond,  but  also  serve  to  desensitize 
the  international  community  to  the  horrific  levels 
of  suffering  being  borne  by  civilian  populations. 
Resolving those conflicts requires global and regional 
cooperation.  It  is  clear  also  that  conflict  prevention 
must assume greater prominence. We cannot continue 
to  operate  in  crisis  mode  only.  Our  vision  is  that  of 
a  United  Nations  transformed  into  a  more  effective 
instrument  for  preventing  conflict  and  securing  just 
and peaceful settlements.
Recent  events  in  Gaza  demonstrate  that  the  need 
for  a  lasting  resolution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  remains  as  urgent  as  ever.  Jamaica  believes 
that the cycle of violence will continue in the absence 
of  a  negotiated  political  settlement  based  on  a  just, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  agreement  that  guarantees 
the  security  of  Israel  and  recognizes  the  Palestinian 
State within internationally recognized borders.
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  disarmament, 
non-proliferation  and  arms  control.  In  the  Caribbean 
we  are  acutely  aware  of  the  pernicious  impact  of  the 
proliferation of small arms and light weapons, fuelled 
by  a  dangerous  nexus  with  the  drug  trade.  That 
combination  is  the  single  greatest  cause  of  fear  and 
insecurity among our citizens. For the past two decades 
we  have  remained  resolute  in  our  call  for  a  global 
partnership to fight that scourge. We are pleased that, 
with the fiftieth ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty 
earlier  this  week,  that  historic  Treaty  will  enter  into 
force on 25 December.
All  States,  whether  small  or  large,  have  a  role  to 
play  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. Jamaica is therefore honoured to assume the 
chairmanship of the First Committee at this sixty-ninth 
session,  which  reflects  our  commitment  to  advancing 
the  objectives  of  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and 
arms control.
Among  the  major  milestones  to  be  celebrated 
next  year  will  be  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  Jamaica  is  firm  in 
its  commitment  to  the  highest  standards  of  respect 
for  international  justice  and  supports  the  role  of  the 
Court.  Jamaica’s  group  of  States  has  nominated  the 
Jamaican jurist Patrick Lipton Robinson as a candidate 
for  election  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
the  term  2015-2024.  His  nomination  demonstrates 
Jamaica’s  preparedness  to  contribute  to  the  work  of 
the Court and underscores that all States, regardless of 
size, can make a contribution to the development of the 
rules and norms of international law.
In 2015 we expect to erect a permanent memorial 
to  honour  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade. Its location outside this very Hall will serve 
as a place of meditation and solemn reflection on the 
horrors of slavery and the need to prevent its recurrence 
and to address its ongoing legacy. I encourage Member 
14-55132
23/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
States  to  contribute  to  the  Trust  Fund  established  to 
underwrite  the  cost  of  the  memorial.  Only  a  small 
shortfall remains. Let us press on to the end and meet 
the final goal.
Jamaica 
Jamaica  looks  forward  to  the  commencement  in 
January  2015  of  the  International  Decade  for  People 
of  African  Descent,  through  which  the  international 
community will undertake a range of activities to address 
racism,  xenophobia,  discrimination  and  prejudice,  as 
well  as  systemic  inequalities  and  underdevelopment. 
People  of  African  descent  must  be  engaged  directly 
in the range of measures that can be taken to redress 
the  legacy  of  the  historic  wrongs  they  have  suffered. 
CARICOM countries believe that reparatory justice is 
an important element in that process.
to 
the  unilateral 
application of economic sanctions and trade restrictions 
applied by one State against another. We reiterate our 
support  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  financial  and 
commercial embargo against Cuba, and urge all States 
that  continue  to  apply  such  measures  to  repeal  or 
invalidate  such  laws.  We  have  it  within  our  power  to 
shape a world that is just and equitable and that embraces 
both peace and development with equal fervour. As we 
prepare to commemorate the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations next year, we recommit to the lofty 
goals  enshrined  in  the  Charter  —  peace  and  security 
and the economic and social advancement of all people. 
Let us get on with the task.
remains  opposed 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Zarar Ahmad Osmani, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Osmani  (Afghanistan)  (spoke  in  Pashto; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  gives  me 
great  pleasure  to  express  my  sincere  congratulations 
to  the  President  on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session.  We  are  confident  that  his  wisdom  and 
experience  will  ensure  constructive  and  fruitful 
deliberations  on  the  very  important  and  vital  issues 
before the Assembly. I should like to assure him of the 
full  cooperation  of  my  delegation  to  that  end.  I  also 
express  my  deep  appreciation  to  his  predecessor  and 
my gratitude to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
competent and excellent leadership of the Organization.
I  am  delighted  to  report  to  the  Assembly  that 
Afghanistan  has  achieved  a  significant  milestone 
with  the  successful  conclusion  of  its  presidential 
elections,  including  the  important  task  of  recounting 
the votes. The new President, Mr. Mohammad Ashraf 
Ghani  Ahmadzai,  will  be  sworn  in  on  29  September. 
Afghanistan is witnessing the transfer of power from one 
elected administration to the next. While Afghanistan 
faces marked challenges, we are confident that the new 
Government, which enjoys the full backing of the vast 
majority of Afghans, will strive to bring about political 
security and socioeconomic prosperity to Afghanistan 
and, by extension, to the region and beyond.
It was more than a decade ago that many countries 
of the world joined the Afghan people in their struggle 
for  peace  and  fought  against  the  forces  of  extremism 
and  terrorism.  In  that  regard,  we  have  collectively 
achieved  tangible  results.  Unfortunately,  however, 
the  menace  of  terrorism  and  extremism  continues  to 
threaten  security,  socioeconomic  development  and 
peace, not only in Afghanistan but also in the region. 
There is an urgent need for a comprehensive response 
to the threats from terrorism, drugs and extremism at 
the regional and international levels.
has 
credible 
Today,  Afghanistan 
political 
institutions,  an  elected  Parliament,  a  Constitution 
and  elected  provincial  councils  supported  by  the 
brave  Afghan  National  Security  Forces.  The  people 
of  Afghanistan  have  witnessed  many  positive 
achievements in the past decade, including in the fields 
of socioeconomic development, education — especially 
education  for  our  girls  —  health,  communications 
and  information  technology,  and  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  including  particularly 
the  rights  of  women.  Afghanistan  has  one  of  the 
most  dynamic  media  scenes  in  the  region,  propelled 
by  the  freedom  of  expression  that  the  Afghan  people 
have enjoyed for more than a decade. We should also 
underscore the pioneering spirit of our youth, who are 
behind  much  of  the  innovativeness  and  diversity  of 
thought in academia and in the private sector.
The  Afghan  people  appreciate  and  thank  the 
international community for the vital support that it has 
given the country to build security, peace and prosperity 
in Afghanistan. We look forward to continued mutual 
cooperation  with  the 
to 
protect our achievements and ensure the sustainability 
of a strong partnership.
international  community 
The  transfer  of  security  responsibilities  from  the 
international  forces  to  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces  for  the  whole  of  Afghanistan,  launched  in  the 
summer of 2011, will be achieved by the end of 2014. 
24/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
As  we  speak,  Afghan  forces  are  providing  security 
independently  across  the  country,  despite  increasing 
acts of terrorism inside Afghanistan, which are being 
committed  with  support  from  terrorists  from  beyond 
our borders. The growing levels of violent extremism 
and the alarming developments in the Middle East and 
other  parts  of  the  world  make  international  support 
for  the  NATO  mission  in  Afghanistan  even  more 
imperative.
Parallel  to  our  ongoing  efforts  to  enhance  the 
capacity  and  capabilities  of  our  National  Security 
Forces,  the  Afghan  Government  is  also  pursuing  a 
dialogue to achieve peace through political means and 
reconciliation.  We  have  put  in  place  clear  conditions 
in order for that process to be accepted by the Afghan 
people.  For  instance,  we  demand  the  renunciation  of 
violence and respect for Afghanistan’s Constitution, as 
it guarantees full and equal rights to Afghan men and 
women and is the only tool for the preservation of our 
collective achievements of the past decade.
Afghanistan  strongly  believes  in  comprehensive, 
long-term,  friendly  and  good-neighbourly  relations 
between Pakistan and Afghanistan in the fight against 
terrorism and the strengthening of peace and stability 
between the two nations in the region. At the same time, 
we would like to express our serious concern over the 
rocket  attacks  by  Pakistani  forces  onto  Afghanistan’s 
soil. The continuation of such attacks is unacceptable 
to  Afghanistan.  We  hope  that  the  Government  of 
Pakistan, considering our common interests in ensuring 
peace and stability, will put an end to any kind of acts 
that could endanger the prospects for good-neighbourly 
relations and will act to protect cooperation and trust 
between our two nations.
The  Afghan  Government  is  keen  to  reduce  the 
negative economic impact of the security transition and 
to move towards sustainable economic development in 
at least three ways.
First,  we  will  focus  on  the  development  of 
agriculture  and  the  agribusiness  sector,  where  more 
than  70  per  cent  of  our  population  is  directly  or 
indirectly engaged, with enormous potential for growth 
and employment generation.
Secondly, Afghanistan is estimated to hold trillions 
of dollars worth of natural resources, including minerals 
and hydrocarbons, representing a guaranteed source of 
wealth and income for generations to come. We already 
have several State-owned and private companies from 
China, India, the United Kingdom, Canada, Turkey, the 
United Arab Emirates, Azerbaijan and other countries, 
in  addition  to  Afghan  companies,  expressing  a  keen 
interest in investing billions of dollars.
Thirdly,  Afghanistan  is  now  on  the  eve  of  a 
transformative  decade,  from  2015-2024,  which  will 
be a multidimensional process that will have security, 
political  and  economic 
ramifications.  Therefore, 
the  pledges  made  at  the  2012  Tokyo  and  Chicago 
Conferences  will  maintain  the  Afghan  Government’s 
overall  socioeconomic  efforts.  Afghanistan  critically 
needs  the  continuation  of  that  support  from  its 
international partners over the next few years.
Afghanistan’s  report  on  its  progress  in  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), published 
in late 2013, shows that the progress with regard to most 
of the MDG targets, in particular those related to health 
and  universal  primary  education,  is  commendable. 
Despite only starting in 2005, Afghanistan is committed 
to achieving most of the MDGs by 2020. Meanwhile, 
national  consultations  are  under  way  to  synchronize 
efforts  towards  achieving  the  off-track  MDG  targets, 
bearing  in  mind  the  outcome  of  the  Open  Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals.
As  we  embark  on  the  important  task  of  crafting 
the new post-2015 development agenda at this session, 
I  am  happy  to  inform  members  that  that  process  also 
coincides  with  Afghanistan’s  transformation  decade. 
Both  are  top  priorities  for  Afghanistan’s  national 
development  agenda.  We  appreciate  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  in  recognizing  the  need  to  reduce 
the  number  of  sustainable  development  goals  to  an 
affordable, achievable and realistic number in the post-
2015  development  agenda.  We  are  of  the  view  that 
that  agenda  should  leave  no  one  behind,  it  should  be 
adaptable to both global and local settings, and it should 
have sustainable development and poverty eradication 
at its centre.
Our  region  is  blessed  with  vast  resources  and 
opportunities for economic cooperation. An expanded 
level of regional cooperation can serve both economic and 
security purposes. The Afghan Government’s regional 
strategic goal for economic cooperation is to establish 
regional economic growth and resource corridors that 
connect the Silk Road through Afghanistan, the people 
of South and Central Asia and the Middle East and their 
key  economic  activities,  including  agriculture,  light 
manufacturing  and  mineral  extraction,  with  essential 
trade, transit and energy enablers.
14-55132
25/27
A/69/PV.16 
27/09/2014
Regional  cooperation  is  one  of  our  priorities. 
The  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process  represents  a 
significant  step 
towards  enhancing  stability  and 
regional  cooperation  between  Afghanistan  and  the 
12 participating countries, with the support of 12 other 
country partners and nine international organizations.
This year’s General Assembly session takes place 
at a time when the United Nations has seen a number 
of conflicts continue and new ones have taken shape. 
My  Government  fully  supports  the  inalienable  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  establishment  of 
an 
independent  Palestinian  State  with  Jerusalem 
as  its  capital.  We  strongly  condemn  illegal  actions 
and  violations  by  the  occupying  Power  against  the 
Palestinians  as  a  whole,  especially 
the  ongoing 
disproportionate and indiscriminate attacks on innocent 
Palestinian civilians.
We  express  our  grief  at  the  killing  of  innocent 
civilians  in  Syria  and  support  a  political  resolution, 
reached  through  a  broad-based  national  dialogue  that 
meets the aspirations of all Syrians. With the worsening 
security  situation  in  Iraq  and  Libya,  we  strongly 
condemn the actions of the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
Sham and its brutality, and we call for joint efforts to 
defeat that evil. In that context, I call upon the United 
Nations to take appropriate action within its mandate to 
uphold international peace and security.
My delegation believes that there is an urgent need 
for the international community to pay attention to the 
resolution  of  the  crisis  in  Ukraine,  while  taking  into 
account the situation of civilians.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  assure  members 
that 
Afghanistan  remains  committed  to  its  national  and 
international  responsibilities  and  obligations.  We 
reaffirm our strong will for a further strengthening of 
democracy  and  good  governance,  including  a  further 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law;  accountability  and 
transparency;  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights, particularly the rights of women; justice reforms; 
the fight against terrorism, narcotic drugs, corruption; 
and  the  eradication  of  poverty.  The  support  of  the 
international community is essential for all of that.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting.
10 minutes for the first statement and to five minutes 
for the second, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr. Ansari Dogaheh (Islamic Republic of Iran): I 
should like to exercise my right of reply in connection 
with  the  remarks  in  the  statement  made  earlier  today 
by  the  Foreign  Minister  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
in connection with the issue of the Iranian islands (see 
A/69/PV.15).
The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
reiterates  its  full  sovereignty  over  the  Iranian  islands 
of  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb  and  Lesser  Tunb  in  the 
Persian  Gulf  and  underlines  that  the  decisions  and 
measures  undertaken  in  those  islands  by  the  Iranian 
authorities  have  always  been  conducted  on  the  basis 
of  the  principles  of  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Therefore, any 
claim to the contrary is deemed to be interference in the 
internal affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran and is 
categorically rejected.
The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
has  always  pursued  a  policy  of  friendship  and  good-
neighbourliness with all neighbouring countries. In that 
context, we once again express our readiness to engage 
in bilateral talks with the United Arab Emirates with a 
view to continuing to strengthen bilateral relations and 
removing any misunderstanding that may exist between 
the two countries in that regard. In the meantime, it is 
obvious that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran over the three islands is not 
negotiable.
Mr.  Diyar  Khan  (Pakistan):  I  should  like  to 
exercise  my  right  of  reply  in  connection  with  the 
remarks  made  by  The  Honourable  Prime  Minister  of 
India (see A/69/PV.15).
In his statement today, the Prime Minister of India 
referred  to  “Pakistan-occupied  Kashmir”.  To  set  the 
record  straight,  I  should  like  to  say  that  the  correct 
and historic name of that territory is Azad Jammu and 
Kashmir. Pakistan condemns terrorism in all its forms 
and manifestations. Pakistan emphasizes the pursuit of 
dialogue and diplomacy, which are peaceful means for 
resolving issues and disputes. We believe that dialogue 
should not be stalked by human rights violations or by 
any kind of terrorism.
Several members have asked to speak in exercise of 
the right of reply. May I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to 
The United Nations is the most appropriate forum 
in which to raise the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. As 
the Prime Minister of Pakistan said yesterday, the right 
26/27 
14-55132
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.16
to self-determination has to be exercised by the people 
of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
it was India that cancelled the dialogue with Pakistan 
at the Foreign Secretary level that was set to take place 
in August.
Mr.  Abhishek  Singh  (India):  I  take  the  floor  to 
exercise India’s right of reply.
We reject in their entirety the untenable comments 
by  the  representative  of  Pakistan.  We  would  like  to 
remind  the  representative  of  Pakistan  of  what  our 
honourable Prime Minister said today in this Hall:
“I  want  to  hold  bilateral  talks  with  [Pakistan]. 
However, it is also Pakistan’s responsibility to come 
forward and to genuinely establish the appropriate 
atmosphere for bilateral talks. In raising that issue 
in  this  forum,  I  do  not  know  how  successful  our 
efforts will be.” (A/69/PV.15, p. 17).
Mr. Diyar Khan (Pakistan): I exercise my second 
right of reply in response to the remarks just made by 
the Indian representative.
With  regard  to  the  dialogue  process,  it  is  not 
Pakistan that has stalled the dialogue process. Indeed, 
With regard to the issue of Jammu and Kashmir, let 
me once again reiterate that, no matter what the Indian 
representative  says,  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
has yet to be resolved in accordance with the relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
With regard to terrorism, I point out that Pakistan 
itself is the biggest victim of terrorism, which is planted 
on our soil. Some of it is emanating from our immediate 
neighbourhood. Terrorism is a common threat, and we 
must all work together to eliminate it.
Mr.  Abhishek  Singh  (India):  Regrettably,  the 
Pakistani representative has once again taken the floor. 
We  reject  all  the  untenable  and  unsolicited  remarks 
from the representative of Pakistan.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
14-55132
27/27
