United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
8th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 24 September 2014, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 6.20 p.m.
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic 
of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Zuma: I should like to congratulate you, 
Mr. President, and your country, Uganda, on assuming, 
on behalf of the continent of Africa, the responsibilities 
of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session. The theme that you have chosen for this general 
debate and the sixty-ninth session, namely, “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development agenda”, is timely and most appropriate.
implementing  a 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
galvanized and mobilized the international community 
and the United Nations in a manner never seen before. 
We  have  good  stories  to  tell  about  the  journey  of  the 
past  15  years  of  implementing  the  MDGS.  In  Africa, 
we  seized  the  opportunity  and  adopted  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  our 
sociodevelopment  blueprint.  The  African  Union’s 
Vision  2063  will,  together  with  NEPAD  and  other 
socioeconomic  development  programmes,  be 
the 
cornerstone  and  foundation  of  Africa’s  development 
agenda  going  forward.  South  Africa  has  also  made 
significant progress in achieving the MDGs. Reducing 
by half the number of people earning less than a dollar 
a day has been achieved, while the proportion of those 
experiencing  hunger  has  also  been  halved.  South 
Africa has attained Goal 2, namely, to provide access 
to primary education for all.
By official international indicators, South Africa is 
also  doing  well  on  MDG  3  to  promote  and  empower 
women. South Africa has recorded impressive progress 
through  the  expansion  of  its  health  infrastructure 
and  improved  access  to  health  services  for  all  South 
Africans.
On the reduction of child mortality, MDG 4, and the 
improvement  of  maternal  health,  MDG  5,  significant 
progress has also been recorded, but more work remains 
to  be  done.  In  fact.  more  work  remains  worldwide  to 
fully achieve those goals, especially in the developing 
world. We have to confront the underlying root causes 
that  continue  to  make  it  impossible  for  our  people  to 
have a better life.
In spite of the progress that we have made thus far, 
reports continue to show that Africa is lagging behind 
in  the  attainment  of  some  of  the  MDGs.  It  is  for  that 
reason  that  we  appreciate  the  crafting  of  a  post-2015 
global development agenda that will carry forward the 
unfinished business of the MDGs. The post-2015 global 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54835 (E)
*1454835*
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
development agenda will provide a frame of reference 
for  our  collective  agreement  on  what  has  to  be  done. 
We reiterate that developed countries should be reliable 
partners  and  meet  their  commitments  to  development 
goals,  such  as  contributing  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
gross  national  income  towards  official  development 
assistance.  We  say  that  because  it  does  not  matter 
what  the  great  Organization  has  achieved  in  the  past 
six decades if we do not deal comprehensively with the 
scourge  of  poverty,  unemployment  and  diseases.  The 
poor  of  the  world  will  then  consider  everything  done 
to have been a failure. Indeed, we would have failed in 
our duty if we succeed in preventing another world war 
but continue to have children dying of malnutrition and 
treatable diseases.
The  recent  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  some  West 
African  States  and  the  number  of  lives  that  have 
been  unnecessarily  lost  provide  a  clear  example  of 
the  challenges  that  developing  countries  continue  to 
contend with. We believe that Ebola would have been 
contained within a few days had the outbreak been in 
the developed world. But now it has become a pandemic 
that threatens the economies of affected African States.
The  outbreak  has  thus  exposed  the  challenges 
resulting from lack of capacity, lack of infrastructure 
and other limited resources in Africa. We are pleased 
that  the  United  Nations,  under  the  leadership  of  the 
Secretary-General, is deploying a mission to coordinate 
efforts to combat the virus. South Africa stands ready to 
continue to provide whatever resources we have at our 
disposal  to  assist  the  people  and  Governments  of  our 
sister  countries  of  Liberia,  Guinea  and  Sierra  Leone. 
We  add  our  voice  in  calling  for  more  resources  to  be 
deployed so as to ensure that the virus is contained.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  supporting  the 
struggles  of  self-determination  and  freedom  has  been 
remarkable. South Africa is a shining example. Twenty 
years  ago,  President  Nelson  Mandela  thanked  all 
nations for support from this very podium when South 
Africa was readmitted to the United Nations as a free 
and democratic State. We are reminded of that fact on 
this important day, which is National Heritage Day in 
my country.
Since  1994,  South  Africa  has  made  significant 
progress  in  transforming  the  apartheid  State  into  a 
democratic one, founded on the values of human dignity, 
non-discrimination, non-racialism and non-sexism, the 
rule of law and universal adult suffrage, as enshrined in 
the Constitution. Given our history and heritage, we are 
mindful of our historic and moral responsibility in the 
global  struggle  against  racism,  racial  discrimination 
and other intolerances. We will, in this regard, continue 
to be at the forefront of efforts to eliminate all forms of 
racism, racial discrimination and any other intolerance, 
including xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
The Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 
remain  the  primary  framework  adopted  by  a  United 
Nations  conference  in  the  fight  against  racism.  We 
will  continue  to  support  the  struggles  for  freedom 
and  self-determination,  including  the  struggles  of  the 
peoples of Palestine and Western Sahara, who continue 
to  experience  occupation  and  colonialism  of  different 
forms.  The  people  of  Cuba  also  hold  a  special  place 
in  our  hearts  because  of  that  country’s  sacrifice  for 
African freedom. We will therefore continue to support 
their struggle for economic liberation.
While the United Nations has done remarkably well 
in supporting self-determination, when it celebrates 70 
years  of  existence  next  year,  this  body  may  be  found 
wanting by the people of Palestine. The Israeli-Palestine 
question  is  one  of  the  oldest  items  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda,  but  progress  remains  elusive.  In  the 
past few months in particular, the world has witnessed 
a  devastating  conflict  that  left  a  humanitarian  crisis 
of shocking proportions. People in Palestine were left 
homeless, with no medical facilities, no safe drinking 
water,  bereaved  and  having  to  care  for  the  wounded 
after a trail of destructive military actions by Israel.
South  Africa  has  condemned  the  actions  of  both 
Israel and Hamas, and we have called for an immediate 
cessation  of  hostilities.  Our  strongly  held  view  is 
that  there  can  be  no  military  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian question. We should all remain committed 
to  the  two-State  solution,  based  on  the  1967  borders, 
with  Palestine  and  Israel  coexisting  side  by  side  in 
peace.
Of concern in this matter has been the helplessness 
displayed by the United Nations, especially the Security 
Council  during  the  current  conflict.  The  United 
Nations has the moral authority and legitimacy to unite 
the world in promoting the quest for peace, justice and 
self-determination  for  the  people  of  Palestine,  while 
addressing whatever security concerns Israel may have. 
This body must play its role without fear or favour and 
be a beacon for all who suffer oppression in the world.
2/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
Let me reiterate that the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations next year provides an opportunity 
for  us  seriously  to  reflect  on  the  need  to  reform  this 
august body, moving beyond words to action. Ten years 
ago, world leaders celebrating the sixtieth anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations  agreed  on  the  need  for  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  in  particular.  The  decision 
remains  valid  and  must  be  implemented.  When  we 
convene  here  next  year,  in  the  seventieth  year  of  the 
United Nations, we should be able to adopt a concrete 
programme that will guide us towards a strengthened 
United Nations and a reformed Security Council. Some 
contentious  aspects  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
including the power of veto and the exclusion of regions 
such as Africa from the Security Council, are some of 
the critical matters that cannot be ignored in the quest 
for transformation.
Among the achievements of the Organization in its 
recent history is the cooperation between the African 
Union  and  the  United  Nations,  particularly  since  the 
formation  of  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture.  In  this  regard,  the  full  implementation 
of Security Council resolutions 1809 (2008) and 2033 
(2012),  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations,  particularly  the  African 
Union,  remains  crucial.  Progress  has  been  made  in  a 
number of areas where this cooperation is in place, for 
example  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo.  The 
two  affected  subregional  organizations,  the  Southern 
African Development Community and the International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region,  continue  to 
take significant strides with the support of the United 
Nations.
This body celebrated the formation of a new State 
of South Sudan not long ago. Recent developments and 
the  ongoing  conflict  in  South  Sudan  have  resulted  in 
loss of life and other dire humanitarian consequences. 
We  will  continue  to  contribute  as  much  as  we  can  to 
finding solutions working with the African Union and 
this body. South Sudan should not be allowed to regress.
Next  year  marks  20  years  since  the  the  Fourth 
World  Conference  on  Women  adopted  the  Beijing 
Platform  for  Action.  The  anniversary  provides  an 
opportunity for the United Nations and the international 
community  to  reflect  and  take  forward  the  struggle 
for  the  emancipation  of  women  from  all  forms  of 
discrimination.
Last  December,  the  world  descended  on  South 
Africa  to  pay  last  respects  to  our  beloved  Madiba. 
Those  who  did  not  come  to  South  Africa  honoured 
Madiba in various ways. We will continue to work with 
the world to promote Madiba’s legacy and passion for 
justice,  freedom,  equality  and  human  rights.  We  are 
grateful to the General Assembly and the President of 
the Assembly at the sixty-eighth session for the decision 
to  establish  the  United  Nations  Nelson  Rolihlahla 
Mandela Prize that will be awarded to an outstanding 
individual who will have demonstrated a commitment 
to  the  aims,  objectives  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. The Prize is a great testament to the 
outstanding individual that Madiba was and will always 
be.
As  we  recommit  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  let  me  once  again  borrow  from  the  words  of 
Madiba uttered on his historic inauguration day in 1994 
when he said:
“We  understand  it  still  that  there  is  no  easy 
road  to  freedom.  We  know  it  well  that  none  of 
us  acting  alone  can  achieve  success.  We  must 
therefore  act  together  as  a  united  people,  for 
national reconciliation, for nation building, for the 
birth  of  a  new  world.  Let  there  be  justice  for  all. 
Let there be peace for all. Let there be work, bread, 
water and salt for all. Let each know that for each 
the body, the mind and the soul have been freed to 
fulfil themselves.”
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of South 
Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Didier Burkhalter, President of the 
Swiss Confederation
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Swiss Confederation.
Mr.  Didier  Burkhalter,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Didier Burkhalter, President of the 
14-54835
3/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
Swiss Confederation, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Burkhalter (spoke in French):
“A  world  in  which  people  know  how  to  solve 
their problems in peace without violence; a world 
of freedom and mutual respect; a world where all 
young people can look forward to finding work that 
allows them to live a happy life.”
That, in his own words, is the world that a young man 
from my country would like to see. His name is Damian 
Vogt.  He  is  in  this  Hall  and  represents  Switzerland’s 
youth at the United Nations. This week we work here 
together to make that world a reality.
A little more than a year ago, another young person 
stood in this very place and addressed the world. She 
said:
(spoke in English)
“I  speak  not  for  myself,  but  for  all  girls  and 
boys  ...  Those  who  have  fought  for  their  rights: 
their right to live in peace; their right to be treated 
with dignity; their right to equality of opportunity; 
their right to be educated.”
(spoke in French)
The  entire  world  still  remembers  the  words  of 
Malala  Yousafzai.  The  entire  world  still  remembers 
her courage. What a difference in the lives that Malala 
and  Damian  have  known.  What  a  difference  between 
going to school only at the risk of your life and going 
to school as a right — the right to a better life. And yet, 
Malala and Damian, like millions of other young people 
around the globe, want exactly the same thing: peace, 
human dignity, freedom and equality, an education, and 
an opportunity to work. The youth of today have a right 
to expect from all of us, we who represent the nations, 
that we truly will be united in our commitment to do 
everything  within  our  power  to  place  in  their  hands 
tomorrow a world where humanity is synonymous with 
security, freedom and prosperity.
It is a century now since the outbreak of the First 
World  War,  and  75  years  since  the  beginning  of  the 
Second World War. The memory of those cataclysmic 
events imposes a duty on humankind to work towards 
greater  security  and  freedom,  to  bring  about  the 
conditions for prosperity, and to become an Organization 
of  genuinely  united  nations  that  is  effective  as  a  true 
assembly  of  States  at  the  service  of  the  people.  Here 
at the heart of the United Nations, Switzerland wishes 
to do its part by making the following twin objectives 
a  priority:  strengthening  international  security  and 
reforming the United Nations.
The  security  challenges  are  immense.  At  no  time 
since  the  Second  World  War  has  humankind  seen  so 
many  people  displaced.  More  than  50  million  men, 
women and children have been torn from their homes. 
The  story  of  each  and  every  one  of  them  is  a  human 
tragedy.  Caught  up  in  this  current  of  insecurity  are 
also 75 million young people who, without work, face 
a  future  without  prospects.  We  are  talking  about  one 
young person in 10 in the world, and in certain regions 
one in two. Worse still, in ever more regions throughout 
the globe there are waves of instability assailing the rule 
of international law and, in particular the principles of 
humanitarian  law,  which  are  being  ignored,  violated, 
and swept away in the deluge.
This  is  extremely  worrisome  in  the  Middle  East, 
above all in Syria and Iraq. Switzerland condemns in 
the strongest terms the brutal acts of the self-proclaimed 
Islamic State and the groups that have allied themselves 
with it. Islam can, and must, like other religions, be a 
messenger of peace, humanity and fraternity. As for the 
nations, they can and must be truly united as a constant 
reminder at all times and in all places of the supremacy 
of law over force.
Where serious violations occur, investigations must 
be carried out. Here, the independent commissions of 
inquiry  play  an  essential  role,  especially  that  of  the 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry 
on  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  to  allow  for  genuine 
reconciliation  and  lasting  peace.  Switzerland  and  60 
other  States  have  requested  the  Security  Council  to 
refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal 
Court. We have also committed ourselves to an increase 
in  our  humanitarian  aid  in  the  region.  The  crisis  in 
Syria must be dealt with as a whole, and we call on the 
parties  to  return  to  the  negotiating  table  and  to  work 
towards a political solution.
Switzerland  calls  on  the  Iraqi  Government  to 
ensure accountability. It joins the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights in calling on Iraq to 
consider accession to the Rome Statute.
With  regard  to  all  forms  of  extremism  that  can 
lead to acts of terrorism, it is important also to address 
their  root  causes  to  show  young  people  that  violence 
holds out no promise for the future. The establishment 
4/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
in Geneva of the Global Community Engagement and 
Resilience Fund was an important step in this direction.
The world in 2014 has witnessed a conjunction of 
many crises — in the Middle East, in the Maghreb, in 
Africa,  and  also  in  Europe,  where  war  returned  this 
year with the crisis in Ukraine. This situation weakens 
the  security  of  the  entire  continent.Violations  of  the 
Helsinki  principles  and  of  international  law,  whether 
in the form of an illegal annexation of territory, such 
as that of Crimea by Russia, or of military incursions 
in eastern Ukraine, demand a firm response from the 
international community. But such a response must also 
be balanced, leaving room for dialogue and cooperation 
so  that  open  discussion  remains  possible.  To  simply 
isolate  Russia  from  the  rest  of  Europe  will  not  solve 
any problems and will only create more, in Europe and 
beyond.  Stability  can  be  restored  in  Ukraine  and  in 
Europe if we succeed in resolving this crisis by working 
with Russia, not against it.
That stability will be all the more sustainable if the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  —  of  which  Switzerland  this  year  holds  the 
chairmanship — is able to re-establish a firm basis for 
security  cooperation  between  the  Euro-Atlantic  and 
Eurasian regions. Switzerland, in its capacity as current 
chair of the OSCE, fully supports the vital work of the 
contact group for Ukraine and Russia. We are currently 
taking  steps  to  increase  funding  for  the  special  civil 
monitoring  mission,  that  will  also  require  additional 
support from the participating States, and we welcome 
the excellent cooperation with the United Nations.
In  today’s  unstable  world,  Switzerland  has  made 
an  active  commitment  to  achieving  greater  security 
by  focusing  its  efforts  there  where  it  can  make  the 
greatest  contribution  —  the  prevention  of  conflicts. 
The  prevention  of  violence  means,  first  and  foremost 
making certain that a proper education is available to all 
and that there are opportunities for every young person. 
We welcome the Secretary-General’s Global Education 
First  Initiative.  Switzerland  is  working  to  promote 
education  through  massive  open  online  courses  and 
seeks to encourage the development of dual vocational 
training,  combining  school  studies  with  on-the-job 
apprenticeships. This calls for a joint commitment on 
the part of the State and the social partners.
In  addition,  preventing  tensions  from  arising 
requires knowing how to give everyone a voice. At the 
heart of Switzerland’s history lies a willingness to share 
power,  to  engage  in  direct  dialogue  with  minorities, 
and  to  distribute  authority  between  central  and  local 
government — an emphasis on consultation rather than 
on confrontation. In order to better prevent and manage 
tensions in the world, we must strengthen the mediation 
capacities  of  both  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
security organizations, particularly those of the largest 
among them, the OSCE.
has 
its 
contributions 
international  development  and 
humanitarian cooperation. In the coming year we will 
be allocating funds for this purpose amounting to the 
equivalent of 0.5 per cent of our gross national income. 
In other words, to help the neediest inhabitants of our 
planet, each person in Switzerland will be contributing 
a little over one dollar every day.
Switzerland 
to 
decided 
to 
augment 
The post-2015 process provides us with the chance 
to transform the world’s challenges into opportunities. 
There must be a single agenda for universal sustainable 
development,  with  shared  objectives.  We  must  all  act 
to  ensure  that  they  are  truly  achieved.  If  all  nations 
are  genuinely  united,  it  lies  within  our  power  to 
make  certain  that  no  one  in  the  world  need  face  a 
future  of  destitute  poverty.  It  is  within  our  power  to 
make certain that the creation of jobs and wealth, and 
thus  also  companies  doing  business  contribute  to  the 
development of human rights and help to foster respect 
for the limited resources of this Earth.
Today  there  are  crises  that  cannot  wait  for  the 
outcome  of  discussions  on  an  agenda,  no  matter  how 
sustainable  it  may  be.  Switzerland  has  increased  its 
humanitarian  commitment  to  the  fight  against  the 
horror of Ebola. Swiss-based research centres, among 
the  best  in  the  world,  are  working  to  arrange  for  the 
clinical testing of vaccines. Similarly, we must also do 
all we can every day to protect the world’s youth from 
the  horrors  of  war.  The  place  of  children  and  young 
people is in school and with their families and not on 
the battlefield. Switzerland is intensifying its efforts to 
provide better health protection for women, especially 
young  girls,  and  has  also  launched  an  action  plan  to 
combat  the  phenomenon  of  child  soldiers,  who  are 
being deprived ofthe right to be simply children.
In order to meet these challenges we will need not 
only the common will of the United Nations but also an 
organization that functions in an effective, transparent, 
and democratic fashion. “We the peoples of the United 
Nations” are the opening words of the United Nations 
Charter.  They  are  a  reminder  that  the  United  Nations 
must first listen to and serve the people of this world. 
14-54835
5/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
In  concrete  terms,  this  means  that  it  must  strengthen 
bodies that are dedicated to the prevention of conflicts. 
Switzerland  applauds  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  strengthen  the  commitment  of  the  United 
Nations  to  human  rights,  particularly  in  sensitive 
regions.  My  country  has  launched  an  appeal  for  the 
allocation  of  additional  funds  for  those  important 
activities.
There is also a need to strengthen the United Nations 
special  political  missions  to  prevent  conflicts  and 
reinforce the activity of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
The  United  Nations  must  devote  all  its  energy  to  its 
work  in  the  field  to  serve  the  people.  It  must  avoid 
getting  lost  in  an  administrative  maze.  Together  with 
eight  other  countries,  Switzerland  has  commissioned 
a  group  of  experts  to  draft  recommendations  for  the 
reform of planning and budgeting processes.
Lastly,  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  be 
effective in dealing with the challenges it faces depends 
on the legitimacy it enjoys as well as its ability to be 
transparent and inclusive in the Security Council. The 
permanent members ought not to use their veto to block 
action  designed  to  prevent  or  put  an  end  to  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity,  or  war  crimes.  Switzerland 
welcomes 
initiative  for  a  voluntary 
agreement by the five permanent members to restrain 
their veto power in cases of mass atrocities.
the  French 
One day, many years ago, a young man travelling 
across the north of Italy was horrified by the suffering 
he witnessed on the battlefield at Solferino in the 1800s. 
The  young  man’s  name  was  Henri  Dunant.  With  the 
help of local women, he cared for the wounded soldiers. 
Later, when he returned home to Geneva, he dedicated 
himself to raising public awareness of the tragedy that 
had taken place. Through his commitment, the Red Cross 
Movement was born. Through his persistence, the first 
Geneva Convention was signed, 150 years ago in 1864. 
This document — which I am holding up here and will 
give to the President of the General Assembly — is a 
reproduction of the original, in which States committed 
themselves to providing assistance to wounded soldiers 
and ensuring respect for humanitarian principles. Thus, 
international humanitarian law was born.
Yet  today,  150  years  later,  humanitarian  law  is 
too  often  violated  or  ignored.  Switzerland  and  the 
International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross  were 
given  a  mandate  to  consult  States  and  to  issue 
recommendations. We will present next year a specific 
to  strengthen  respect  for  humanitarian 
proposal 
law  and  to  put  in  place  some  joint  machinery  and  an 
institutional  framework.  For  the  past  150  years,  the 
spirit  of  Geneva,  the  spirit  of  international  law,  has 
shone forth throughout the world like a beacon, a place 
of peace, a home to humanitarianism and a refuge for 
humankind. Geneva is a gift, both for Switzerland and 
for the world, and we would like to strengthen its role 
further by finding useful solutions for humankind. Like 
Malala and Damian, Henri Dunant dreamed of peace, 
freedom and prosperity for the world. His story — the 
story of the Red Cross and the Geneva Conventions — is 
a message of commitment. The action of each one of us 
can make a difference.
In a few days, Switzerland will rename one of the 
highest mountain peaks in the Alps. It will henceforth 
be  known  as  Dunant  Peak,  after  Henri  Dunant,  the 
first  recipient  of  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  Here,  where 
the  nations  come  together,  we  have  the  power  to 
move mountains, as long as we stand united, working 
together to make the dreams of Damian and Malala and 
all young people in the world a reality. We owe them 
a  better  world.  We  are  capable  of  building  that  world 
together,  if  we  find  the  will  to  work  as  nations  truly 
united in dialogue and action — united nations, whose 
Governments draw their strength from the people, for 
the  people;  united  nations  who  draw  their  inspiration 
from the youth for the youth.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Swiss Confederation 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Didier  Burkhalter,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the 
Republic of Chad
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chad.
Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the Republic of 
Chad was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the 
Republic  of  Chad,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Deby Itno (spoke in French): The sixty-
ninth session offers us a theme that invites us to deepen 
6/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
exchanges on the development model that we want for 
the  world  post-2015.  The  theme,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”, is perfectly in line with the theme of the sixty-
eighth  session,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting the stage”.
At  previous  sessions,  we  have  acknowledged  that 
development through the achievement the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has  not  produced  the 
expected  results  for  many  States.  Among  the  main 
causes for this are the weakness of solidarity in financing 
the  Goals;  their  poor  adaptation  to  the  concerns  and 
realities  of  Africa;  and  the  many  global  financial, 
food, environmental and security crises that arose. The 
unanimously welcomed drafting of a post-2015 agenda 
gave us the opportunity to review the MDGs in greater 
depth and to respond relevantly. Africa, for its part, has 
adopted a Common Position that requires the adherence 
of all States and their partners. This Common African 
Position is part of the Africa Vision 2063. That is why 
my  country,  Chad,  fully  supports  it  and  hopes  that 
this approach will figure prominently in the post-2015 
agenda.
Unfortunately,  we  note  that  on  the  eve  of  the 
important  post-2015  meeting,  the  same  security  risks 
remain.  Armed  conflicts  and  the  phenomenon  of 
terrorism  are  becoming  persistant  threats  in  several 
areas of Africa. They are aggravated by the migratory 
phenomenon that deprives our continent, Africa, of its 
workforce. We must therefore join our efforts to bring 
adequate and energetic responses to these phenomena, 
which  dangerously  compromise  the  future  of  our 
continent.
in  combating 
I  take  this  occasion  to  hail  the  upsurge  of 
solidarity  that  we  are  witnessing  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community 
terrorism 
and  underdevelopment.  Africa  remains  in  favour  of 
various strategies for security and development in the 
Sahel  initiated  by  the  United  Nations,  the  European 
Union and many other organizations. We hope that the 
implementation of these programmes will be effective 
so as to allow our continent to effectively combat these 
ongoing phenomena.
Beyond 
international  support, 
these  security 
challenges  require  African  countries  to  take  their 
security  into  their  own  hands  by  implementing  laws 
that  will  ensure  security  at  the  national,  regional  and 
continental levels. The countries of the Sahel — Burkina 
Faso,  Mali,  Mauritania,  the  Niger  and  Chad  —  have 
mobilized  through  the  Group  of  Five  countries  of  the 
Sahel  to  combine  their  efforts  in  building  a  strong 
system  of  resilience,  good  governance,  security  and 
peace. It is well known that the security of one country 
or region is directly linked to its development, that of its 
neighbours, and thereby to that of the entire continent.
The  terrorism  summit  convened  by  the  African 
Union  Peace  and  Security  Council,  over  which  we 
presided  on  2  September  in  Nairobi,  was  a  part  of 
these  constant  efforts.  It  sought  to  consider  in  depth 
the terrorist threat and to agree specific and concrete 
measures  to  consolidate  the  efficacy  of  collective 
actions against this scourge. The summit also gave us 
the opportunity to highlight our solidarity with Kenya 
in particular, and more generally with the East African 
region,  which  is  facing  the  threat  of  the  terrorist 
Al-Shabaab group.
The  decision  to  create  such  mechanisms  as  the 
African  Capacity  for  Immediate  Response  to  Crises 
or  the  African  regional  force  for  the  Sahel-Sahara 
and  Central  Africa,  was  the  fruit  of  this  regional 
and  continental  resolve  to  respond  appropriately  to 
terrorism,  which  is  progressively  gaining  ground  in 
Africa. We call on the countries of the Lake Chad Basin 
Commission  to  take  the  necessary  measures  to  bring 
the joint multinational force into operation in order to 
combat the terrorist activities of Boko Haram.
With respect to conflict resolution, Chad continues 
to  contribute  to  peace  and  reconciliation  in  Africa. 
This  goodwill  is  borne  out  by  the  organization  on  its 
territory, at Amdjarass in the north, of a forum of peace 
and  reconciliation  between  the  warring  brothers  of 
Darfur. Chad welcomes the holding of the Brazzaville 
forum on reconciliation and inclusive dialogue between 
Central African brothers, where it played an active part 
in seeking solutions to Central African crises.
My  country  welcomes  the  inter-Malian  dialogue 
towards a definitive return to peace and security in that 
country.  It  welcomes  the  reconciliation  process  under 
way  in  South  Sudan  to  persuade  the  South  Sudanese 
to  take  up  the  peace  pipe.  We  are  convinced  that 
sincere  dialogue  and  surpassing  ourselves  are  virtues 
that  can  assist  in  resolving  these  issues.  My  country 
will  continue  to  support  this  process  of  dialogue  and 
reconciliation.
Regarding the new Libya — a country that has barely 
begun to exist as a homogenous entity after the fall of 
the  Al-Qadhafi’s  regime  and  his  assassination  —  the 
14-54835
7/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
violence has intensified and the people live in constant 
fear.  Libya’s  neighbours  are  striving  to  assist  that 
brotherly  country  to  recover  its  stability.  The  entire 
international  community  is  called  upon  to  act  on 
the  severe  security  situation  in  that  country.  Libyan 
brothers  of  different  political  and  social  beliefs  must 
understand that peace can come only from the Libyans 
themselves. They must therefore resolutely commit to 
a  political  settlement,  the  only  proper  path  to  ensure 
peace, unity and territorial integrity for Libya.
Peace,  stability  and  development  are  intrinsically 
linked to respect for laws and universal shared values, 
of  which  justice  is  the  basis.  Nevertheless,  we  note 
with regret that these universal principles are not often 
respected, especially by the powerful of this world. This 
is the case for the International Criminal Court, which, 
instead  of  being  neutral,  impartial  and  independent, 
seems  more  to  practise  double  standards  and  only 
pursues  the  weak.  Some  90  per  cent  of  indictees  are 
Africans.
Chad, a neighbouring country of Libya, the Central 
African  Republic,  the  Sudan  and  Nigeria,  is  hosting 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons  who  have  fled  armed  conflicts  or  terrorist 
threats.  Since  2003,  we  have  welcomed  more  than 
500,000  refugees  from  these  neighbouring  countries 
and  more  than  200,000  Chadians  repatriated  from 
Libya  and  the  Central  African  Republic  for  security 
reasons, including displaced Chadians. A national plan 
for global response developed by the Government and 
its  technical  and  financial  partners  has  been  adopted 
and is being implemented, but it requires the financial 
and material support of the international community.
These various conflict situations are compounded 
by other, no less important challenges such as poverty, 
underdevelopment and illnesses. I note in particular the 
severe  Ebola  crisis  affecting  certain  countries  on  the 
African  continent,  ravaging  populations  and  gravely 
affecting  the  economies  concerned.  Chad  will  make 
its  financial  contributions  to  these  countries.  The 
international  community  must  act,  and  act  quickly, 
in a coordinated manner as the Ebola virus knows no 
borders.  I  commend  the  upsurge  of  solidarity  on  the 
part of the international community in containing the 
spread of this scourge.
Beyond  Africa,  we  call  for  a  peaceful  resolution 
to  the  conflicts  in  Ukraine  and  Syria,  and  between 
Israel  and  Palestine,  to  name  but  a  few.  On  Palestine 
specifically,  we  feel  that  the  disproportionate  use  of 
force  and  the  human  and  material  damage  incurred 
in  Gaza  are  unacceptable  and  challenge  the  human 
conscience.  It  is  extremely  urgent  to  find  a  solution 
to this conflict, which has lasted for far too long. We 
therefore call on all parties for restraint and dialogue in 
order to reach a just, global and lasting solution.
Regarding  the  embargo  to  which  Cuba  has  been 
subject for many years, we once again reiterate our call 
for it to be lifted, pure and simple.
The debate on the reform of the Security Council 
must be concluded, taking into account the interests and 
concerns of all States so that it reflects the actual makeup 
of the world. It is unjust that a billion inhabitants live in 
the only continent without a permanent representative 
in that organ.
At the national level Chad has a national development 
plan for 2013-2015 and a national programme for food 
security  which  seek  to  ensure  resilient  and  emerging 
development  by  2025,  supported  by  sustainable  and 
diversified  sources  of  growth  that  create  added  value 
and employment. The plan ensures that each Chadian 
has appropriate access to basic social services, decent 
housing  and  to  adequate  training  opportunities.  I 
again  thank  all  our  partners  who  announced  their 
participation in financing these two programmes at the 
Paris conference in June.
In  order  to  promote  a  serene  climate  in  national 
political  life  Chad  has  implemented  mechanisms  for 
political governance, the latest of which is the national 
framework for political dialogue created in April 2013. 
This  mechanism  is  better  adapted  to  current  political 
events  as  it  includes  civil  society  along  with  political 
parties.  These  mechanisms  have 
to  stability 
conducive  to  economic  and  social  development  in  a 
country where challenges remain considerable.
led 
To  improve  governance,  Chad  has  adhered  to  the 
monitoring  mechanism  of  the  African  Union  and  the 
Extractive  Industries  Transparency  Initiative.  That 
adherence clearly demonstrates our resolve to manage 
our national resources in complete transparency. Chad 
will continue to work to consolidate the rule of law and 
good  governance  through  substantial  reforms  of  its 
institutions, to combat unemployment by creating jobs 
for youth, and to combat poverty and food insecurity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chad 
for the statement he has just made.
8/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the Republic of 
Chad,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Estonia.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Ilves:  In  the  364  days  since  I  last  had 
the  honour  to  address  this  Assembly,  the  world  has 
changed dramatically. We have seen a profound change 
in the global security situation. We see unprecedented 
threats to peace and security in post-Second World War 
Europe and the world, while terrorism, climate change, 
human  rights  violations  and  the  spread  of  the  Ebola 
virus continue to be global challenges.
We  need  a  concerted  effort  to  achieve  peace  and 
stability in Europe and the Middle East, and to restore 
the  credibility  of  international  law.  No  circumstances 
can  ever  justify  terrorism  in  any  form.  By  signing 
United Nations anti-terrorism conventions States have 
promised to prevent and investigate terrorist crimes as 
well as to refrain from supporting or tacitly tolerating 
those crimes.
The  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL) 
poses a serious threat to the people of Iraq and Syria 
as  well  as  the  broader  Middle  East.  This  terrorist 
organization  executes  prisoners,  kills  civilians  and 
commits genocidal acts against religious and national 
minorities. Its brutality, barbarous crimes and extreme 
ideology  threaten  all  of  humanity.  It  challenges  the 
universal  human  values  enshrined  in  United  Nations 
documents.  We  must  stop  the  terrorists.  Estonia 
commends all global efforts to fight the ISIL and other 
terrorist  organizations  and  stands  ready  to  contribute 
to those efforts. I should like to welcome the adoption 
today  of  Security  Council  resolution  2178  (2014),  on 
foreign terrorist fighters.
A quarter of a century ago in the annus mirabilis 
1989,  Europe  and  the  democratic  world  celebrated  an 
historical  sea  change.  The  Berlin  Wall  fell.  The  Cold 
War that had divided the world into hostile camps for 
half a century ended. This year we should celebrate an 
anniversary of the triumph of freedom and democracy. 
Instead,  2014  has  turned  out  to  be  a  year  when  the 
international  order  as  we  have  known  it  since  the 
cold war, has been violated and put in doubt. Cynical 
geopolitics  in  international  relations  has  once  again 
come  to  the  fore.  The  international  agreements  upon 
which  the  stability  of  the  post-Second  World  War 
security architecture relied, have been compromised.
Let  me  recall  what  we  have  collectively  agreed 
upon.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  of  1945 
declares:
“All Members shall refrain in their international 
relations from the threat or use of force against the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of 
any state”.
In  the  Helsinki  Final  Act  of  1975,  all  trans-Atlantic 
countries  agreed  not  to  use  force  to  change  borders 
or  challenge  the  political  independence  of  any  State. 
States  agreed  to  regard  one  another’s  frontiers  as 
inviolable; to refrain from making each other’s territory 
the  object  of  military  organized  occupation.  No  such 
occupation or acquisition would be recognized as legal. 
In the 1990 Conference on Security and Cooperation in 
Europe (CSCE) Charter of Paris for a New Europe, all 
signatories, from Vancouver to Vladivostok, agreed to 
“fully recognize the freedom of States to choose their 
own security arrangements”.
By  annexing  Crimea  and 
invading  Eastern 
Ukraine, one of the signatories has violated all of these 
agreements.  Thus,  we  find  ourselves  in  a  completely 
new  and  unforeseen  security  environment.  We  must 
enforce  the  fundamental  agreements  upon  which  our 
peace and security rely.
The  Ukrainian  crisis  is  not  solely  a  conflict 
between two countries. It is not even solely a European 
issue. If instead of agreements and laws raw brute force 
will apply in international relations; if changing State 
borders by force will become an accepted norm, then the 
stability of the whole world is threatened. As President 
Obama said this morning, “This is a vision of the world 
in which might makes right” (A/69/PV.6, p. 11). And he 
added, “We believe that right makes might” (ibid.). So 
does Estonia. We believe that too.
14-54835
9/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
Such  developments  must  be  firmly  condemned. 
The  international  community  cannot  leave  Crimea  as 
it is now. We cannot accept frozen conflicts created for 
geopolitical  ends.  Referendums  that  are  in  agreement 
with international law cannot be arranged in two weeks in 
the presence of foreign armed forces. The results of such 
referendums cannot be considered valid. Independence, 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  must  remain  the 
fundamental rights of States and nations. That includes 
their right to direct their own future and to choose their 
allies, as stated in the CSCE Paris Charter. Such free 
choices by sovereign nations cannot be accepted as an 
excuse  for  aggression.  However,  it  was  not  Ukraine’s 
wish even to choose its security arrangements that was 
used as justification for aggression. Its mere desire to 
enhance trade and political relations with the European 
Union, which is not a security arrangement, led to the 
country’s dismemberment.
What  can  we  do,  then,  to  restore  the  validity  of 
international  agreements?  There  were  warning  signs 
of current events in Ukraine earlier. Alarm bells rang 
already six years ago in Georgia, but few bothered to 
hear the wake-up call. We must take, therefore, conflict 
prevention  more  seriously.  We  must  support  States  in 
their choice of democracy, the rule of law and human 
rights and decisions that follow from that. These recent 
developments force us seriously to reconsider the role 
of the United Nations. How can one of the fundamental 
goals of the United Nations, global peace and security, 
be  promoted  when  basic  international  agreements  are 
ignored, State borders are changed, and territories are 
annexed through force?
We cannot ignore that the Security Council has been 
paralysed as international justice has been manipulated 
and multiple crises have escalated. The Security Council 
needs to be reformed. Its work methods and principles 
must be revised, with special attention on the openness, 
accountability  and  transparency  of  its  processes.  The 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  bear 
enormous  responsibility  in  guaranteeing  international 
peace. No permanent member should abuse the veto to 
circumvent the principles of the United Nations Charter.
Human rights remain the most cherished of values 
of  the  United  Nations.  Unfortunately,  respect  for 
human rights can still not be assumed to be the norm. 
We  cannot  accept  arguments  that  for  some  countries 
human rights do not apply for cultural reasons. Human 
rights,  as  stated  in  the  Universal  Declaration,  are 
universal,  inalienable  and  inviolable.  They  are  based 
on the humanity and dignity of each and every person.
No  peace  or  justice,  stability  or  security  can 
be  guaranteed  unless  the  basic  rights  of  all  human 
beings  are  respected  and  protected  in  every  country 
by  all  Governments.  We  must,  moreover,  pay  special 
attention  to  the  rights  of  the  most  vulnerable  groups. 
Women’s  rights  must  be  protected  everywhere.  It  is 
crucial  that  empowering  women  and  action  against 
gender-based  violence  be  implemented  in  accordance 
with Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). We must 
respect the rights of children and minorities, as well as 
those  of  indigenous  people.  We  must  care  for  people 
with special needs.
Free  speech  remains  a  crucial  right.  Some  States 
have made efforts to stop the free flow of information 
on  the  Internet  and  to  divide  cyberspace  along  State 
borders. This we must avoid. The Internet must remain 
a  universal  platform  for  the  uninhibited  exchange  of 
information. Estonia is proud to be a founding member 
of  the  Freedom  Online  Coalition,  a  community  of  23 
nations committed to promoting free speech online, and 
the multi-stakeholder model of a free and open Internet. 
It is a global initiative that brings together Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations,  entrepreneurs  and 
think tanks.
In April, the Freedom Online Coalition gathered in 
our capital and issued the Tallinn Agenda, a statement 
expressing our strongly shared conviction that all people 
are entitled to the same rights and freedoms, online as 
well  as  offline.  This  is  not  a  lifestyle  question.  The 
Internet is a driver of economic growth and a key tool 
for development. Since the 1990s it has blossomed into a 
global network of nearly three billion users. Most of the 
next billion Internet users will come from developing 
countries.  The  United  Nations  post-2015  development 
agenda  should  recognize  the  importance  of  new 
technologies and e-services as a major contribution to 
the security and prosperity of the world. As we grow 
more dependent on digital services in our daily lives, 
we  become  more  vulnerable  to  cyberattacks.  Cyber 
security  is  essential,  not  just  for  protecting  rights, 
but  also  for  economic  prosperity.  Cyberattacks  can 
paralyse  crucial  services  or  infrastructure.  They  can 
cause enormous economic damage. Limiting access to, 
or  censoring  the  contents  of  the  Internet,  however,  is 
not the answer to cyber insecurity.
10/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
Achieving sustainable development is essential in 
order  to  tackle  some  of  the  challenges  we  face.  Even 
in  the  current  fragile  security  environment,  we  must 
take care of the future of the planet and work towards 
a  world  where  everyone  can  live  a  dignified  life, 
free  from  poverty,  violence  and  exclusion.  In  today’s 
interdependent  world,  this  is  hard  to  achieve  without 
peace and stability.
The  world  today  also  faces  the  outbreak  of  a 
deadly  virus.  This  is  no  longer  a  local  concern  of  a 
few  countries.  Ebola  has  become  an  international 
public health emergency. Despite efforts already made 
by  Governments  and  international  organizations  the 
outbreak  races  ahead.  We  support  the  efforts  of  the 
Global Ebola Response Coalition tasked to contain and 
stop the spread of the virus.
Climate  change  is  already  an  existential  threat 
to  some  countries.  It  has  a  dramatic  impact  on  their 
living  conditions  and  their  security.  The  small  island 
developing States are most vulnerable. If we do not act 
soon enough other countries will be threatened as well. 
We  must  see  this  problem  globally,  not  just  from  the 
perspective of short-term national or economic interest.
The risks of conflict, violence, insecurity, financial 
and economic collapse, climate change, lack of resources 
and natural disasters are inextricably intertwined and 
need to be addressed comprehensively. The new post-
2015  development  agenda  must  be  truly  universal. 
Sustainable  development  goals  are  best  addressed 
together. Progress in these fields will be guaranteed by 
good governance, transparency of decision-making and 
low corruption. Effective and accountable institutions 
are powerful enablers of sustainable development, and 
modern digital technology helps us to create them. In 
Estonia,  we  have  developed  an  e-governance  system 
that  increases  transparency  and  limits  corruption. 
We  have  been  sharing  the  system  with  all  interested 
partners and we continue to be willing to do so.
Since  8  May  1945,  we  have  believed  that  we  had 
been freed of certain ideological demons for good. Yet 
today we see the return of long-discredited ideas dating 
back  to  1938.  The  existence  of  co-ethnics  abroad  has 
been used as a justification to annex territory. This is in 
2014, not in 1938. So, too, we have seen a return to the 
ideologies of hatred, lies and propaganda. We must be 
clear in condemning extreme nationalism, homophobia, 
xenophobia and religious extremism. We need to recall 
and  reaffirm  the  values  that  the  United  Nations  was 
created to protect. The United Nations, a unique global 
instrument of security and peace, must succeed where 
the League of Nations once failed.
Let us not forget that 75 years ago, on 23 August 
1939,  a  pact  was  signed  between  Hitler’s  Germany 
and  Stalin’s  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics  to 
divide Eastern Europe into their spheres of influence. 
A week later, on 1 September, Hitler attacked Poland. 
On 17 September, two and a half weeks later, Hitler’s 
erstwhile ally, the Soviet Union, also attacked Poland, 
and the Second World War had begun.
The  date  of  31  August  this  year  marked  20  years 
since the occupation forces left Estonia — troops that 
were there as a result of that same Stalin-Hitler pact. Yet 
just a few days later on 5 September, an Estonian police 
officer  was  abducted  by  foreign  security  services  on 
Estonian territory and taken by force to Moscow, where 
he is still being held in the infamous Lefortovo prison.
We  cannot  allow  anyone  ever  to  divide  countries 
into spheres of influence. The community of nations is 
only secure when its smallest members can feel secure. 
We cannot and will not accept threats and intimidation 
in  twenty-first  century  international  relations.  We 
cannot have peace, security or prosperity in Europe, or 
in the world, unless we again find a way to enforce and 
revalidate the agreements that we have all signed and 
are parties to.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Estonia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
14-54835
11/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I  bring  with  me  to  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  greetings  of  peace,  friendship  and 
solidarity  from  the  people  of  Equatorial  Guinea  and 
the full readiness of their Government to contribute to 
our  common  task  of  maintaining  peace  and  stability 
throughout  the  world,  and  promoting  the  harmonious 
development of humankind.
strengthened and revitalized. The United Nations will 
never be able to find lasting solutions to these problems 
if  the  Security  Council  is  not  governed  by  rules  that 
respect  the  spirit  of  democracy  and  international 
justice. Ultimately, the United Nations will not be able 
to find satisfactory solutions to these problems as long 
as the current system of the rule of force in international 
relations persists.
Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on 
your brilliant election to preside over the work of this 
sixty-ninth ordinary session of the General Assembly. 
Your  well-deserved  election  is  justified  by  the  policy 
of  peace,  respect  for  the  principles  of  international 
law  and  the  promotion  of  development  advocated  by 
your  country,  the  Republic  of  Uganda.  Indeed,  your 
decision to devote this session of the General Assembly 
to  the  theme  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda” 
is 
testament  to  Uganda’s  interest  in  overcoming  the 
current problems of underdevelopment throughout the 
world.
Equatorial  Guinea  recognizes  the  relevance  and 
importance of the topics to be debated at the two high-
level meetings proposed for 2015 — one in February, 
to  consider  ways  of  implementing  the  post-2015 
development agenda, and the other in March, on gender 
equality and the empowerment of women.
We also wish to convey our sincere appreciation and 
congratulations to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
outstanding work at the head of the global Organization 
in  very  difficult  international  circumstances  marked 
by  terrorism,  piracy,  mercenary  activities  and  major 
epidemics affecting the world today. Indeed, this session 
of the General Assembly bears the heavy responsibility 
of  finding  solutions  to  the  problems  of  the  poverty 
and  hunger  prevalent  throughout  the  world,  violence 
and armed conflicts, terrorism, piracy and mercenary 
activity, and major epidemics, such as the recent Ebola 
epidemic  that  is  now  laying  waste  to  some  countries 
in  Africa.  Given  Ebola’s  deadly  effects  and  the  lack 
of adequate resources to combat it, on the occasion of 
the  award  of  the  second  UNESCO  Equatorial  Guinea 
International  Prize  for  Research  in  Life  Sciences,  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
announced a donation of $2 million to the World Health 
Organization to finance programmes to combat Ebola.
The United Nations will not be able to find solutions 
to these thorny problems unless the role of the General 
Assembly, which in recent years has grown routine, is 
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is therefore very 
concerned  by  the  proliferation  of  acts  of  intervention 
that  do  not  respect  the  principle  of  non-interference 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  States.  These  interventions 
interrupt  the  process  of  genuine  democracy  in  the 
affected  countries  in  that  they  ignore  the  essential 
characteristics  and  idiosyncracies  of  those  societies, 
thereby further fuelling divisions and the sociopolitical 
instability  of  nations.  We  must  distinguish  clearly 
between  support  for  a  genuine  internal  democratic 
process and interference perpetrated through pressures 
that lead to misunderstandings, intolerance, exclusion, 
resentment, hatred among citizens and fratricidal wars.
In  Equatorial  Guinea  we  say  that  democracy  is 
not  an  imported  product  and  cannot  be  designed  in 
the offices of other countries. Democracy is shaped by 
the application of the positive values characterizing a 
society, and only the people are entitled to define the 
model that best suits them and to beat their own path 
towards their own development. With this as our vision, 
in 1982 the Republic of Equatorial Guinea adopted the 
theory of democratic experimentation, which gave our 
own  citizens,  through  community  councils,  a  hand 
in  designing  their  own  political  development,  the 
implementation of which has given rise to the current 
climate  of  peace,  stability  and  economic  prosperity 
through successive political reforms.
The  latest  of  these  reforms  is  making  Equatorial 
Guinea  a  modern  democratic  State  in  which  popular 
participation and representational politics are ensured 
at  the  highest  possible  level.  The  transfer  of  power  is 
guaranteed  by  equal  rights  for  all  political  options. 
Public  affairs  are  administered  with 
the  utmost 
transparency,  accountability  and  responsibility,  and 
human  rights  are  protected  and  monitored  by  reliable 
institutions.
In  this  spirit  of  ensuring  the  participation  of  all 
citizens of Equatorial Guineans in the management and 
administration  of  public  affairs,  our  Government  has 
extended an invitation to all political parties — those 
within the country and those in the diaspora alike — to 
12/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
attend a national dialogue that will be held in November 
as  an  opportunity  to  strengthen  democracy  in  our 
country  as  a  positive  experience  in  our  democratic 
experiment, which has yielded fruit since its inception 
in 1982.
Concurrently with this political process, and thanks 
to the peace and political stability that we have achieved, 
our Government has undertaken economic initiatives to 
develop our natural resources and position Equatorial 
Guinea as an economically emerging country by 2020. 
On behalf of the people of Equatorial Guinea, I wish to 
thank those countries that have been cooperating with 
my Government in developing our economic and trade 
relations,  in  particular  the  United  States  of  America, 
the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Cuba, 
France, Brazil, Russia and Morocco.
In conclusion, and with the fervent wish to see the 
United  Nations  recover  its  leading  role  in  delivering 
peace,  security  and  global  development,  I  wish  the 
sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  every 
success.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial Guinea for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Rajapaksa:  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 
being elected as the President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  wish  you  success  and 
assure you of our fullest cooperation.
The  theme  for  this  session  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”,  is  timely.  The  world  has  undergone  many 
changes  since  the  United  Nations  was  created,  and 
since  the  year  2000  much  progress  has  been  made 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
However, there are multiple challenges that still remain 
to be addressed. The moral and practical importance of 
creating an equitable world and a sustainable planet for 
this purpose cannot be ignored.
The Commonwealth, of which Sri Lanka is the current 
Chair-in-Office,  accounts  for  more  than  one-quarter 
of the United Nations membership. In November 2013 
the  Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  agreed 
in  Colombo  to  contribute  to  the  process  of  evolving 
the  new  post-2015  global  development  agenda.  They 
have  endorsed  the  central  focus  on  the  eradication 
of  extreme  poverty  and  reaffirmed  commitments  to 
sustainable development. The perspective on the post-
2015  development  agenda  is  based  on  shared  values 
and principles contained in the Commonwealth Charter 
and 
individual  experiences.  The  Commonwealth 
leaders encourage others to approach the forthcoming 
intergovernmental negotiations in a collaborative spirit 
to achieve a balanced post-2015 development agenda.
Reducing  inequality  within  and  among  countries 
is one of the most transformative goals that have been 
proposed by the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development Goals. We hope that this goal will serve 
to enhance the voice and representation of developing 
countries  in  decision-making.  The  post-2015  agenda 
must 
the 
sustainable  development  goals  would  be  impossible 
without the political will and dedication of all countries. 
It  must  be  ensured  that  the  failure  of  the  developed 
countries to fulfil Millennium Goal 8 that called for a 
global partnership for development is not repeated. 
implementation.  Achieving 
focus  on 
the 
In  determining  goals,  countries  must  not  be 
deprived  of  policy  space  to  set  their  own  domestic 
priorities.  Instead  of  asking  countries  to  reprioritize 
domestic  spending, 
focus  should  be  on  a 
strengthened  partnership  between  developed  and 
developing countries, backed by sincere commitment. 
That  is  essential  for  countries  in  the  South  to  access 
financial resources and technology that are essential for 
capacity building.  
It  is  vital  that  we  also  address 
structural obstacles and political barriers that prevented 
the realization of the Millennium Development Goals, 
such  as  unfair  trade  and  investment  rules.  Creating 
14-54835
13/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
a  supportive  international  economic  environment, 
enhanced investment flows, including from multilateral 
development  banks,  and  an  open  multilateral  trading 
regime, are important.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  advancing 
international peace, security and prosperity is crucial 
in the contemporary world. However, in order to gain 
the  confidence  and  good  will  of  the  international 
community as a whole, one of the essential requirements 
is  consistency  of  standards  across  the  board  without 
any perception of selectivity or discrimination. It is in 
this context that the current functioning of the system 
needs examination in order to enhance its credibility. 
Human rights are used as a tool to implement motivated 
agendas  with  no  understanding  or  appreciation  of 
the  complexity  of  issues  in  the  countries  concerned. 
Human  rights  should  be  recognized  by  all  as  a  moral 
and  ethical  concept  rather  than  as  a  political  tool. 
External  intervention  without  adequate  consideration 
of  the  structures  in  a  society  and  cultural  traditions 
of  countries  where  such  intervention  takes  place, 
inevitably results in destabilization, which is very much 
in evidence today in most parts of the world.
Ms. Gunnarsdóttir (Iceland), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Post-conflict  Sri  Lanka  has  also  become  an 
unfortunate  victim  of  ill-conceived  agendas  of  some 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council  who  pay  scant  regard 
to  the  substantial  progress  achieved  by  Sri  Lanka  in 
reconstruction, rehabilitation and reconciliation within 
a  short  span  of  five  years.  There  is  an  obvious  lack 
of balance and proportion in the manner in which my 
country  is  being  targeted  today,  disregarding  these 
significant  achievements.  That  is  in  sharp  contrast  to 
the approach to deeply disturbing situations involving 
humanitarian emergencies elsewhere.
is 
If  multilateralism 
to  remain  relevant  and 
effective,  reform  of  the  institutions  concerned  is 
essential.  To  be  successful  this  process  must  involve 
de-politicization  of  the  United  Nations  systems  and 
mechanisms  and  they  must  stop  being  a  hostage  to 
different forms of funding. United Nations bodies must 
find ways to work with governments through dialogue, 
greater  understanding  of  situations,  and  cooperation, 
including assistance to strengthen national institutions. 
This approach, instead of strong-arm tactics, must form 
the  heart  of  multilateral  diplomacy  in  the  search  for 
sustainable solutions to global challenges.
The seventieth year of the United Nations in 2015 
also  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  2005  World 
Summit  where  global  leaders  agreed  to  support  early 
reform of the Security Council. Concrete results in this 
regard should be achieved next year at least.
Climate change is one of the defining challenges of 
our times. A robust global response needs to be arrived 
at  in  2015  on  the  basis  of  equity  and  the  principle  of 
common but differentiated responsibilities.
The  increase  in  violence  in  the  Middle  East  is 
deeply  distressing.  I  reiterate  Sri  Lanka’s  support  for 
the early realization of a sovereign, independent, viable 
and  united  State  of  Palestine,  existing  within  secure 
and  recognized  borders,  side  by  side  and  at  peace 
with  Israel.  We  look  forward  to  welcoming  Palestine 
as a full Member of the United Nations at the earliest. 
The  international  community  must  assist  Palestine  to 
rebuild the country.
Sri Lanka firmly believes in the need for solidarity 
between Asia and Africa. Admiring the efforts of the 
people of Africa to achieve socioeconomic development, 
Sri  Lanka  has  begun  a  process  of  reaching  out  to 
countries in Africa for an exchange of knowledge and 
expertise  in  areas  of  importance.  The  international 
community must strongly support the early eradication 
of deadly diseases in Africa.
Sri  Lanka  remains  committed  to  supporting  all 
multilateral efforts to counter terrorism deriving from 
extreme ideologies impacting on people across national 
frontiers. Terrorism continues to be a grave threat to the 
security and stability of nations throughout the globe. 
Having  suffered  at  the  hands  of  terrorism,  Sri  Lanka 
knows well its drastic impact on societies, communities 
and institutions founded on democratic traditions and 
ideals.  The  international  community  must  strengthen 
multilateral  action  on  terrorism,  including  the  early 
finalization  and  adoption  of 
the  United  Nations 
Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism.
Sri  Lanka  is  also  committed  to  supporting  all 
multilateral  efforts  to  counter  terrorism  financing, 
piracy and all forms of international organized crime. 
We  wish  to  recall  our  appeal  to  the  international 
community not to support terrorist groups in any way, 
either  directly  or  indirectly.  Sri  Lanka  expresses  its 
concern regarding bombings that kill innocent civilians 
and even unborn children in many situations across the 
world.
14/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
Sri  Lanka  expresses  deep  concern  regarding 
unilateral  economic  measures  against  developing 
countries and is a consistent supporter of the call of the 
General Assembly for an end to the unjust economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba. 
Unilateral sanctions of this nature, which impact on a 
country’s innocent population, are unethical.
Despite being affected by terrorism, Sri Lanka has 
achieved  most  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Sri 
Lanka has succeeded in being ranked ahead of all South 
Asian countries in the 2013 Human Development Index. 
Through  the  adoption  of  the  National  Development 
Strategy — the Mahinda Chinthana, or Vision for the 
Future — the Government of Sri Lanka embarked on 
an inclusive and rural-centric development programme. 
That  involved  bold  policy  decisions  connected  with 
of 
macroeconomic  management, 
agriculture, 
including 
roads and expressways, ports and airports, irrigation and 
water distribution, a strong telecommunication network 
and well-distributed urban and township development 
resulting in 7.8 per cent gross domestic product growth 
this  year  and  per  capita  income  of  $3,280  in  2013.  It 
is  also  a  matter  of  deep  satisfaction  to  recognize  that 
the economic and political empowerment of the people 
of  the  North,  supported  by  massive  investment  in 
infrastructure and livelihoods, have also contributed to 
this growth.
infrastructure  development, 
revitalization 
Sri  Lanka’s  information  technology  literacy  grew 
steadily  from  a  mere  3  per  cent  in  2005  to  almost 
50 per cent in 2014. Sri Lanka’s Nenasala Programme 
was  awarded  the  prestigious  Bill  and  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation  Award  as  the  best  rural  information 
technologyaccess programme in the world.
With the end of terrorism in May 2009, in keeping 
with my responsibilities to my people, large-scale post-
conflict reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement 
initiatives were implemented in the north in a relatively 
short period of four years. Most importantly, democratic 
structures  in  the  North  have  been  re-established. 
Elections to the Northern Provincial Council were held 
in September 2013 after a lapse of 28 years, upholding 
the democratic tradition in Sri Lanka which has been 
consistently protected since 1931, the year we attained 
universal franchise.
I recall in this context the visit to Sri Lanka of the 
Secretary-General  just  a  week  after  the  conclusion  of 
the conflict, when a new era of peace had dawned. That 
was a manifestation of the close cooperation between 
my country and the United Nations and our commitment 
to working together in the future.
We continue on a deeply satisfying and transformative 
journey in the interests of all the people of Sri Lanka. In 
carrying out this task we work in accordance with our 
traditional foreign policy of friendship towards all and 
enmity  towards  none.  We  hope  that  the  international 
community  will  reciprocate  and  assist  Sri  Lanka  in 
its  domestic  process  of  reconciliation  and  economic 
development without exerting undue pressure on us.
We  have  gained  inspiration  from  the  words  of 
Gautama the Buddha who said that the purpose of all 
human  endeavour  must  be  to  construct  order  out  of 
chaos  and  harmony  out  of  strife.  True  to  these  words 
of  wisdom,  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  remains 
committed to its objective of pursuing the processes of 
reconciliation  and  nation  building,  undeterred  by  ill-
motivated criticism.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, President 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros, 
President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Maduro  Moros  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the outset, as this is the first time that I am attending in 
my capacity as the President of the Bolivarian Republic 
of  Venezuela,  I  wish  to  thank  the  General  Assembly, 
all  its  representative  Governments  and  the  various 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system  for  the  heartfelt 
tribute that was paid simultaneously at United Nations 
Headquarters  in  New  York,  in  Geneva  and  other 
14-54835
15/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
places in the world to an extraordinary human being, 
Commander  Hugo  Chávez,  who  always  carried  the 
banners of peace, equality and respect for our peoples. 
That is the first thing I wish to convey from my heart 
on behalf of the people of Venezuela and to recall and 
invoke his spirit of tackling imperialism and injustice.
We have had debates for several decades now on the 
need to reform the Organization, and various Presidents 
that have presided over the Assembly. This morning, I 
strongly reminded Presidents Dilma Rousseff, Cristina 
Fernández,  Evo  Morales  Ayma  and  other  Presidents 
of  the  Americas  of  the  need  to  reorient,  readjust  and 
tweak  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  This  system 
has been in place for 70 years since the end of the so-
called Second World War, which took place in Europe 
and other parts of the world between 1939 and 1945.
The  United  Nations  Charter  is  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  poems  that  we  could  ever  read.  It  has  well 
and  truly  become  an  instrument  that  has  been  set 
aside, overlooked and consistently flouted in terms of 
its fundamental objectives are concerned. The United 
Nations is an historic human experiment that has become 
a  landmark  because  never  before  has  humankind  had 
a  forum  to  meet  to  address  issues  of  peace,  affecting 
life and death, and to negotiate solutions to conflicts. 
After  7,000  years  of  civilization  as  we  know  it  —  a 
review  of  which  reveals  a  history  of  empires  and  the 
ongoing battle to distribute the wealth and territory of 
the world — only with the establishment of this system 
in  1945  did  we  begin  to  get  a  glimpse  of  future  light 
at the end of a long tunnel of battles, wars and global 
conflicts.
We  call  for  the  renewed  relevance  of  the  United 
Nations,  above  and  beyond  any  criticism  that  may  be 
levelled  against  it.  Given  the  human  importance  of 
this  institution,  we  insist  on  the  need  for  an  in-depth 
transformation,  as  Commander  Hugo  Chávez  said  on 
many occasions right here in this Hall. In his famous 
statements  in  defence  of  the  causes  of  humankind, 
he  stressed  the  need  for  a  far-reaching  democratic 
overhaul  of  the  United  Nations  system.  As  President 
Jacob Zuma of our sister country South Africa said, we 
must democratize and overhaul the Security Council.
The  role  of  the  regions  today  is  different  from 
what it was in 1945. This is another world. The United 
Nations was born to deal with post-war reconstruction 
and  the  issues  that  had  given  rise  to  conflicts.  The 
United  Nations  has  to  deal  today  with  a  multicentric, 
multipolar  world  of  numerous  actors,  with  emerging 
countries  and  regions  that  have  their  own  thoughts, 
aspirations and desire to be respected in this world. The 
United Nations has to adapt and submit to the broader 
sovereignty of the peoples of this world, who are crying 
out for their voices to be heard, heeded and respected.
We  have  heard  speeches  today  at  the  start  of  this 
sixty-ninth session. We also believe in strengthening the 
role of the Secretary-General. As we have said so many 
times we must have a Secretary-General who represents 
all  of  us  and  who  has  the  political  and  institutional 
clout to find solutions to the world’s conflicts. We must 
reconfigure  the  system  and  functions  of  the  General 
Assembly. We must democratize it and give it a leading 
role to ensure that the great debates that take place here 
can always successfully address the major issues facing 
the world. That is why we believe that we must build a 
new United Nations in a bid for a new multipolar world 
of peace where there no empire can impose its will on a 
unipolar world. This is urgent for the entire world.
Above  and  beyond  what  officials  of  the  various 
Governments  represented  in  this  Hall  may  believe, 
we  already  have  another  world  where  we  all  wish  to 
speak,  think  and  decide  our  own  fate  and  to  achieve 
peace for our peoples. A new regionalism has come to 
the  fore.  In  the  late  1940s  and  the  1950s,  we  saw  the 
birth  of  the  European  Union  as  an  experiment  in  the 
new regionalism that is admired and emulated by many 
throughout the world. In the 1970s and 1980s, we saw 
the emergence of the Organization of African Unity, an 
extraordinary system to organize the brotherly African 
continent  to  address  the  issues  of  development  and 
life. Our mother Africa was one of the most suffering 
regions the world.
Now  as  we  embark  on  the  twenty-first  century, 
Latin  America  is  taking  its  place.  We  have  seen  new 
organizations arise in Latin America. On 14 December, 
we  will  commemorate  in  Havana,  Cuba,  a  heroic 
island  and  great  homeland,  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Americas.  We  have 
assumed  an  important  role  in  building  a  new  social 
and  economic  order  in  defence  of  such  major  causes 
as climate change. In existence for 10 years now, that 
youthful  organization,  partnership  or  alliance  is  now 
looking forward to the rest of the twenty-first century.
its 
18 brotherly member States. I hope I may be forgiven if 
I seem immodest, but PetroCaribe is a model that best 
shows how we can have a new world of peace, justice, 
solidarity,  cooperation  and  complementarity  among 
I  would  also  mention  Petrocaribe  and 
16/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
nations. To the powerful of the world, those who wield 
all the capital and all the economic power, I say that we 
can have another world. We are starting to build it in 
the Americas.
Also  emerging  is  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations  (UNASUR),  representing  a  new  southern 
regionalism that was founded on 16 April 2007 with the 
participation of new leaders in Latin America and our 
Commander Hugo Chávez. It is a most interesting and 
important bloc that is now starting to forge ties with the 
rest of the emerging world.
We recently held a very interesting and important 
meeting  for  the  remainder  of  the  decade  between  the 
BRICS  countries  —  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and 
South Africa, who represent the hope for development 
through new mechanisms — and UNASUR in Brasilia, 
and we decided to share our experiences. The BRICS 
Bank and the Banco del Sur would be a new financial 
architecture for the world that must emerge from this 
new  regionalism.  The  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States  (CELAC)  was  established  on 
3  December  2011  in  Caracas,  and  is  already  growing 
strong. We have held summits in Santiago de Chile and 
Havana and will hold another in San José in January. 
All of Latin America is coming together optimistically 
in this new regionalism.
Based  on  this  experience,  we  are  seeing  new 
structures  arise  towards  the  establishment  of  a  road 
map  for  overhauling  the  United  Nations  system.  Let 
the call for reform of the Organization not fall through 
the  cracks  here  in  this  Hall.  We  must  find  the  way. 
We must try to come up with a common road map for 
humankding because we need it if we are to tackle the 
major issues before us.
For  22  years,  the  United  Nations  has  customarily 
voted  with  record  insistence  for  a  cause  that  is  not 
just a cause of the Americas but one espoused by the 
peoples and Governments of this world. I speak of the 
rejection of the economic embargo against our brother 
Republic  of  Cuba  —  an  anachronistic  vestige  of  the 
Cold War. The President of Estonia spoke earlier about 
the anachronisms of the Cold War and the systems of 
economic persecution used to impose political regimes 
and  subjugate  peoples.  We  are  here  on  behalf  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to confirm our support 
for the 50-year struggle of the people and Government 
of Cuba against the criminal blockade. I ask President 
Obama:  When  will  you  seize  the  opportunity  to  go 
down in history by putting an end once and for all to the 
criminal economic and trade embargo and persecution 
of our brother country of Cuba?
We  also  see  new  causes  arise  in  the  current 
struggles facing our region. We have taken them on in 
unison. I wish here to recognize as a great step forward 
the decision taken by the General Assembly two weeks 
ago in support of the Argentine Republic and President 
Cristina Fernández in her struggle against the financial 
plundering of the vulture funds. We want to support her 
in every way we can to ensure that the General Assembly, 
in  accordance  with  the  proposal  of  the  Group  of  77 
and China and in as timely and efficient a manner as 
possible, drafts a high-quality document mandating the 
defence of the nations represented by the Organization, 
especially the poor countries of the developing world, 
against vulture funds that seek to plunder our economies 
and  impose  detrimental  economic,  institutional  and 
political systems. We confirm the full solidarity of the 
people of Venezuela with the people of Argentina, and 
indeed  the  solidarity  of  the  CELAC  countries.  Let  us 
move  towards  this  historic  decision.  We  received  124 
votes in favour last week.
As  we  did  at  the  CELAC  summit  in  Havana, 
Venezuela also calls on the United Nations to support as 
closely and warmly as it can and enforce the decisions 
calling on the United States of America to enforce and 
execute a decolonization plan for Puerto Rico. Puerto 
Rico was invited to join CELAC because it is Caribbean 
and it is ours. We raise our voice to make it heard in this 
Hall to call for the release of a man whose name many 
here will hear for the first time. President Jacob Zuma 
of  South  Africa  spoke  of  the  great  Madiba,  Nelson 
Mandela,  who  was  forgotten  for  many  years,  despite 
the  fact  that  many  now  claim  him  as  a  representative 
of their causes. That is fine. Nelson Mandela represents 
the human capacity of resilience and resistance enjoyed 
by  people  as  they  seek  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
justice and peace.
That is why I raise the name of a man who almost 
35  years  ago  was  imprisoned  and  has  been  subjected 
to  torture —  a  man  with  a  family,  a  man  from  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  a  man  like  us.  We  are 
talking about the Puerto Rican Oscar López Rivera, the 
longest-held political prisoner who remains in a United 
States  prison  to  this  day.  We  demand  his  immediate 
release. His only sin was to fight for independence and 
to defend the beautiful flag and star of the dignity of 
our sister country of Puerto Rico. These are the causes 
of this historic moment.
14-54835
17/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
Venezuela is in the midst of a people’s democratic 
revolution 
that  began  with  an  unimpeachable 
constitutional  event.  For  the  first  time  in  the  history 
of  our  country,  the  Constitution  of  the  Republic  was 
debated  by  the  people  and  approved  by  a  referendum 
with  the  participation  of  the  sovereign  vote  of  the 
people of Venezuela in 1999. Since then, we have been 
developing and carrying out a process of political and 
social liberation.
We  are  trying  to  overcome  poverty.  In  2015,  we 
will  have  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will be over. 
Through  great  effort,  the  Bolivarian  Venezuela  led 
by  our  Commander  Hugo  Chávez,  was  fortunately 
able  achieve  practically  all  the  MDGs.  We  have  an 
enrolment rate of more than 90 per cent in almost all 
schools, and we offer free, quality education from basic 
schools  through  to  universities.  We  have  lowered  the 
unemployment rate from 20 per cent five years ago to 
5.5 per cent at the end of last year. We have changed 
the  curves.  We  had  vulnerable  employment  to  the 
tune of 60 per cent; now, 60 per cent of those jobs are 
protected by social security, and are remunerated at a 
fair, regulated rate.
I could spend hours here talking of the progress we 
have  made  towards  the  MDGs.  We  have  been  able  to 
salvage our oil wealth. I am sure Members will know 
that  we  have  the  largest  oil  reserves  on  the  planet  in 
the beautiful Orinoco basin, and we have the largest oil 
fields there. For the first time in 90 years, we recovered 
full  control  over  our  own  petroleum  resources  as  the 
anchor  for  our  economic  and  social  development. 
Venezuela  has  had  to  suffer  ongoing  harassment  and 
persecution at the hands of the imperial forces and the 
allies  of  the  United  States  empire,  who  have  sought 
again and again to undermine our democracy. One such 
attempt was the attempted coup against Hugo Chávez. 
Following  his  death  on  5  March  2013,  those  forces 
resumed  their  activities  to  undermine  our  country.  I 
thank the Governments of the world for their solidarity 
with  Venezuela,  which  has  been  struggling  and 
resisting. They could not prevail against Hugo Chávez 
and they cannot prevail against us. We are still on the 
path towards revolution, democracy, independence and 
dignity, with our own voice speaking to the world.
There  are  major  problems  that  we  now  have 
to  address  at  this  point.  As  members  well  know, 
one  such  problem  —  perhaps  the  greatest  threat  of 
all — is the virus that causes Ebola haemorrhagic fever. 
If this world and our United Nations system had been 
somewhat  more  humane,  we  would  have  focused  on 
lending our support to tackling this real threat instead 
of  sending  drones,  missiles  and  bombs  to  destroy  the 
people of Gaza or to bomb the people of Iraq and Syria. 
The President of Chad announced that his country had 
decided  to  donate  $2  million  to  the  Ebola  fund.  The 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is going to be giving 
$5 million to the fund to support Africa and the needy 
people of the world.
Let  us  be  clear.  We  should  be  discussing  the 
scientific  reports  here  and  taking  decisions  based 
on  those  reports.  We  should  be  focused  on  another 
important issue affecting the survival of humankind on 
this Earth — climate change. A poem of the indigenous 
peoples of the Americas, which was read out yesterday, 
says  that  after  they  can  no  longer  poison  the  rivers, 
after  they  have  poisoned  our  lakes,  once  there  is  not 
even  one  fish  left  to  eat,  then  the  powerful  of  the 
world will have to eat each other. They want to create 
extraneous formulas when all they need to do is to make 
an  extraordinary  effort  and  recognize  climate  change 
as  a  climatic  emergency.  We  should  not  just  make 
speeches  and  vague  offers;  we  must  restore  sanity  to 
the Organization if we are to strengthen it, and place at 
the forefront of our agenda the real common problems 
facing us.
Today  in  the  Security  Council,  they  adopted  a 
series  of  decisions  in  a  bid  to  combat  terrorism.  Let 
us be clear: we must combat terrorism. The Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  has  been 
condemning  terrorism  for  more  than  a  year  and  a 
half. We are deeply pained by the murder of Western 
journalists and the dastardly acts of these terrorists, but 
a year and a half ago when boys and girls were captured 
by these terrorist and other groups in Syria, we were not 
that pained at that time. They were beheading women 
in mosques. The pain should be the same.
Should our pain be greater depending on the colour 
or  origin  of  the  skin  of  a  person  or  the  origin  of  that 
person? The loss of human lives should pain us all, and 
we  therefore  condemn  the  terrorist  attack  perpetrated 
by NATO and its allies to change the regime in Syria. 
I am here to say, with force of truth, on behalf of the 
Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America 
and my Government, that if the Government of Syria 
had been overthrown by those imperial attacks, today 
in that entire region of Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan 
we would see the power of those terrorists take root.
18/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
As painful as it may be, we have to say that President 
Bashar Al-Assad and the democratic and constitutional 
Government  of  Syria  has  always  combated  terrorism 
and has suffered thousands of deaths. We believe that 
instead  of  the  continual,  demented  bombing,  must 
strike  a  great  alliance  of  peace  against  terrorism, 
respecting  the  sovereignty  of  countries  and  sovereign 
Governments  throughout  that  region.  I  would  ask  the 
delegation of the United States take note of this message 
and convey it to President Obama.
Only  an  alliance  that  respects  the  sovereignty 
of  those  nations,  along  with  the  cooperation  of 
their  Governments,  peoples  and  armed  forces,  will 
overthrow  the  Islamic  State  and  the  terrorist  forces 
advancing  like  monster  against  the  West.  There  is  no 
other  way  to  overthrow  them  —  certainly  not  with 
bombs that kill mostly the innocent. They never kill the 
armed  forces;  they  always  kill  the  innocent.  After  so 
much death and bombing of the brotherly Arab people 
of Iraq, we have to invite the sovereign Governments 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, 
Jordan and Egypt and indeed the entire region to come 
up  with  a  comprehensive  political,  military,  cultural 
and communication strategy that can be supported by 
the Security Council. Anything else is crazy.
Let us consider what happened in Libya, as noted 
by the President of Chad. It only fomented hatred and 
an anti-Al-Qadhafi front. What is happening in Libya? 
It  has  become  a  territory  for  trafficking  in  arms  and 
explosives  by  terrorist  groups  fighting  for  scraps  of 
territory. We have seen the end of the beautiful history 
of  the  people  of  our  brother  country  of  Libya.  It  is  a 
crazy  race  towards  more  violence  and  terrorism.  A 
more dangerous world has emerged from the demented 
work  of  those  who  lead  and  make  decisions  in  the 
Organization.
We humbly lend our voice and our proposal to the 
table, and we do so with genuine love. That is how we 
show our solidarity with the people of Palestine. We in 
the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America 
will  continue  to  show  our  solidarity  with  them. 
Venezuela,  as  Members  know,  has  opened  a  modest 
air-bridge to provide logistical support, food, blankets 
and medicines in support of the people of Palestine who 
recently suffered a brutal attack. We want peace, total 
peace. Our Organization needs to be overhauled so that 
everyone  can  enjoy  total  peace.  It  is  not  through  the 
threat of the use of force, or the use of force, or internal 
competition  to  overthrow  Governments  such  as  the 
one that I lead, that we will have stable peace. No, it 
is respect for international law that will lead to stable 
peace and full security.
Lastly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  for 
its support. Next year, 2015, Venezuela, with members’ 
support,  will  assume  leadership  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement for the next three years. We humbly aspire 
to play a genuine role in mobilizing and revitalizing the 
entire  process  of  United  Nations  reform.  The  process 
must  include  the  elaboration  of  an  agenda  of  world 
priorities in which we will all have a voice and a vote, 
and  no  one  can  impose  their  will  on  the  others.  Next 
year,  delegations  from  throughout  the  world  will  be 
welcome  at  the  historic  Summit  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement in Caracas.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by The Right Honourable David 
Cameron, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The  Right  Honourable  David  Cameron,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and Northern Ireland, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency,  David  Cameron,  Prime 
Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern  Ireland,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Cameron  (United  Kingdom):  This  year  we 
face extraordinary tests of our values and our resolve. 
In  responding  to  the  aggression  against  one  of  our 
Member States, Ukraine; in seeking peace in the Middle 
East; in dealing with the terrifying spread of the Ebola 
virus in West Africa; and in overcoming what I want to 
focus on today, which is the mortal threat we all face 
14-54835
19/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
from the rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL) in Syria and Iraq. Deir ez-Zor is a province in 
eastern  Syria.  Home  to  the  Al-Sheitaat  tribe  it  was 
captured by ISIL last month. Seven hundred tribesmen 
were executed; many were beheaded. The vast majority 
were civilians, Muslims who refused to take an oath of 
allegiance to ISIL’s sick extremist world view and who 
paid for this with their lives. They are not alone. Across 
Syria  and  northern  Iraq  thousands  have  suffered  the 
same fate — Muslims, both Sunni and Shia; Christians; 
Yazidis; people of every faith and none.
ISIL is not a problem restricted to just one region. It 
has murderous plans to expand its borders well beyond 
Iraq and Syria and to carry out terrorist atrocities right 
across the world. It is recruiting new fighters from all 
over  the  world.  Five  hundred  have  gone  there  from 
my country, Britain, and one of them almost certainly 
brutally  murdered  two  American  journalists  and  a 
British aid worker. This is a problem that affects us all 
and we must tackle it together.
There is not one person in this Hall who will view 
this challenge without reference to the past, whether in 
Iraq or in Afghanistan. Of course it is absolutely right 
that we should learn the lessons of the past, especially 
what  happened  in  Iraq  a  decade  ago.  But  we  have  to 
learn  the  right  lessons  —  yes  to  careful  preparation; 
no  to  rushing  to  join  a  conflict  without  a  clear  plan. 
But we must not be so frozen with fear that we do not 
do  anything  at  all.  Isolation  and  withdrawing  from  a 
problem like ISIL will only make matters worse.
We  must  not  allow  past  mistakes  to  become  an 
excuse for indifference or inaction. The right lesson is 
that  we  should  act,  but  act  differently.  We  should  be 
comprehensive,  defeating  the  ideology  of  extremism 
that is the root cause of this terrorism, so that we win the 
battle of ideas and not just the battle of military might. 
We should be intelligent, supporting representative and 
accountable  Governments  and  working  with  them  at 
their request, not going in over their heads. We should 
be inclusive, working with partners in the region who 
are  prepared  to  be  part  of  the  solution,  potentially 
including  Iran.  We  should  be  uncompromising,  using 
all the means at our disposal, including military force, 
to  hunt  down  these  extremists.  Let  me  take  each  of 
these in turn.
The root cause of this terrorist threat is a poisonous 
ideology  of  Islamist  extremism.  This  has  nothing 
to  do  with  Islam,  which  is  a  peaceful  religion  that 
inspires countless acts of generosity every day. Islamist 
extremism on the other hand believes in using the most 
brutal  forms  of  terrorism  to  force  people  to  accept  a 
warped  world  view  and  to  live  in  a  quasi-mediaeval 
state. To defeat ISIL, and organizations like it, we must 
defeat this ideology in all its forms.
As  evidence  emerges  about  the  backgrounds  of 
those  convicted  of  terrorist  offences,  it  is  clear  that 
many  of  them  were  initially  influenced  by  preachers 
who claim not to encourage violence but whose world 
view  can  be  used  as  a  justification  for  it.  We  know 
this world view. The peddling of lies — that 9/11 was 
somehow a Jewish plot, or that the 7/7 London attacks 
were staged; the idea that Muslims are persecuted all 
over the world as a deliberate act of Western policy; and 
the concept of an inevitable clash of civilizations.
We  must  be  clear.  To  defeat  the  ideology  of 
extremism we need to deal with all forms of extremism, 
not  just  violent  extremism.  For  governments  there 
are  some  obvious  ways  we  can  do  this.  We  must  ban 
preachers of hate from coming to our countries. We must 
proscribe  organizations  that  incite  terrorism  against 
people  at  home  and  abroad.  We  must  work  together 
to  take  down  illegal  online  material  like  the  recent 
videos of ISIL murdering hostages. We must stop the 
so-called  non-violent  extremists  from  inciting  hatred 
and  intolerance  in  our  schools,  universities  and  even 
our prisons. Of course, some will argue that this is not 
compatible  with  free  speech  and  intellectual  inquiry. 
But  I  ask  “Would  we  sit  back  and  allow  right-wing 
extremists, Nazis or Ku Klux Klansmen to recruit on 
our university campuses?” No, so we should not stand 
by and just allow any form of non-violent extremism.
We need to argue that prophecies of a global war 
of religion pitting Muslims against the rest of the world 
are nonsense. We need Muslims and their Governments 
throughout  the  world  to  reclaim  their  religion  from 
these  sick  terrorists  as  so  many  are  doing,  and  quite 
rightly  doing,  today.  We  all  need  to  help  them  with 
programmes  that  channel  young  people  away  from 
these poisonous ideologues, and we need the strongest 
possible international focus on tackling this ideology, 
which  is  why  here  at  the  United  Nations  the  United 
Kingdom  is  calling  for  a  new  Special  Representative 
on extremism.
But  fighting  extremism  will  never  be  enough. 
Communism was defeated not simply by pointing out its 
flaws, but by showing that the alternative of economic 
freedoms, democracy and the rule of law could build a 
better  society  and  a  better  world.  Young  people  need 
20/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
to  see  the  power  of  a  different,  better,  more  open, 
more  democratic  path.  The  twentieth  century  taught 
us  the  vital  role  of  representative  and  accountable 
Governments in offering their people opportunity, hope 
and dignity.
Of  course  we  should  not  be  naïve.  Not  every 
country can move at the same speed or even reach the 
same destination. We should respect different cultures, 
traditions and histories. But let us be clear — the failure 
to  meet  people’s  aspirations  can  create  a  breeding 
ground where extremist and even terrorist insurgency 
can take root. Governments that only govern for some 
of  their  people  cause  deep  resentment.  In  Iraq,  the 
failure of the Al-Maliki Government to represent all of 
the people has driven some of them into the arms of the 
extremists.
Too often, people have been faced with a false choice 
between an autocratic and unrepresentative government 
on the one hand and a brutal insurgency, with religion 
misused as its rallying call, on the other. To combat this 
we must support the building blocks of free and open 
societies. In Iraq this means supporting the creation of 
a new and genuinely inclusive Government capable of 
uniting all Iraqis — Sunnis, Shia, Kurd, Christians and 
others. In Syria, it must mean a political transition and 
an end to Al-Assad’s brutality.
I  know  there  are  some  who  think  that  we  should 
do a deal with Al-Assad in order to defeat ISIL. But I 
think this view is dangerously misguided. Our enemies’ 
enemy is not our friend; it is another enemy. Doing a 
deal  with  Al-Assad  will  not  defeat  ISIL  because  the 
bias and the brutality of the Al-Assad regime were and 
are  one  of  the  most  powerful  recruiting  tools  for  the 
extremists. Syria needs what Iraq needs — an inclusive, 
representative,  democratic  Government  that  can  look 
after the interests of all its peoples.
To those who have backed Al-Assad or who have 
stood on the sidelines, I would say this: “We are ready 
to  join  with  you  in  a  new  political  effort  to  secure 
a  representative  and  accountable  Government 
in 
Damascus that can take the fight to ISIL”. It is simply 
not  credible  for  Al-Assad  to  lead  such  a  government 
although  we  are  prepared  to  look  at  every  practical 
option to find a way forward.
We must be inclusive, engaging the widest possible 
coalition of countries in this international effort. ISIL is 
a threat to us all, but the greatest threat is to the region. 
It  is  very  welcome  that  a  number  of  Arab  countries 
have already taken part in the action to degrade ISIL. 
They have shown courage and leadership. Iran should 
also be given the chance to show it can be part of the 
solution,  not  part  of  the  problem.  Earlier  today  I  met 
with President Rouhani. We have severe disagreements. 
Iran’s  support  for  terrorist  organizations,  its  nuclear 
programme, and its treatment of its people all need to 
change. But Iran’s leaders could help in defeating the 
threat  from  ISIL.  They  could  help  to  secure  a  more 
stable, inclusive Iraq, and a more stable and inclusive 
Syria.  If  they  are  prepared  to  do  this,  we  should 
welcome their engagement.
Finally,  when  the  safety  and  security  of  our 
people  are  at  stake,  we  must  be  uncompromising  in 
our  response.  That  starts  at  home.  For  our  part,  in 
the  United  Kingdom  we  are  introducing  new  powers 
to  strengthen  our  ability  to  seize  passports  and  stop 
suspects  from  travelling;  to  allow  us  to  strip  British 
identity  from  dual  nationals  and  temporarily  prevent 
some  British  nationals  getting  back  into  our  country; 
to  ensure  that  airlines  comply  with  our  no  fly  lists 
and  security  screening  requirements;  and  to  enable 
our  police  and  security  services  to  apply  for  stronger 
locational constraints on those in the United Kingdom 
who  pose  a  risk.  Here  at  the  United  Nations  we  have 
led in the adoption of a Security Council resolution to 
disrupt the flows of finance to ISIL, to sanction those 
who  are  seeking  to  recruit  to  ISIL  and  to  encourage 
countries to do all they can to prevent foreign fighters 
joining the extremist cause.
What about the role of our military? I do not believe 
that the treat of Islamist extremism will best be solved 
by Western ground troops directly trying to pacify or 
reconstruct Middle Eastern or African countries. But, 
pursuing  an  intelligent  and  comprehensive  approach 
should  include  a  place  for  our  military.  Our  military 
can  support  the  enormous  humanitarian  efforts  that 
are  necessary,  as  our  Royal  Air  Force  did  in  helping 
the millions of people who fled from ISIL. We should, 
together, do more to build the capability of the legitimate 
authorities  that  are  fighting  the  extremists.  That  can 
mean training, equipping and advising, and providing 
technology and the other assets necessary for success. 
Whether it is supporting action against Boko Haram in 
Nigeria, against Al-Shabaab in Somalia, against Ansar 
al-Sharia in Libya, or against Al-Qaida in Yemen, it is 
right to help those who are fighting on the front line for 
their societies, their countries and their freedom.
14-54835
21/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
Along with our European partners, we have already 
been  supplying  equipment  directly  to  Kurdish  forces. 
We  are  strengthening  the  resilience  of  the  military 
forces  in  neighbouring  Lebanon  and  Jordan,  and 
British Tornado and surveillance aircraft have already 
been helping with intelligence gathering and logistics 
support to help those taking on ISIL in Iraq.
We now have a substantial international coalition in 
place, including Arab nations, committed to confronting 
and defeating ISIL. We have a comprehensive strategy 
to do that, with the political, diplomatic, humanitarian 
and  military  components  that  are  needed  to  succeed 
over  time.  The  Security  Council  has  now  received  a 
clear request from the Iraqi Government to support it 
in its military action against ISIL. So we have a clear 
basis in international law for action, and we have a need 
to act in our own national interest to protect our people 
and our society. It is right that Britain should now move 
to a new phase of action. I am therefore recalling the 
British Parliament on Friday to secure approval for the 
United Kingdom to take part in international air strikes 
against ISIL in Iraq.
My message today is simple. We are facing an evil 
against which the whole world should unite. As ever, in 
the  cause  of  freedom,  democracy  and  justice,  Britain 
will play its part.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. David Cameron, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Prime 
Minister of Denmark
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Denmark.
Ms.  Helle  Thorning-Schmidt,  Prime  Minister  of 
Denmark, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Helle  Thorning-
Schmidt, Prime Minister of Denmark, and inviting her 
to address the General Assembly.
Ms.  Thorning-Schmidt  (Denmark):  Despite  our 
aspirations  to  create  a  more  just  and  peaceful  world, 
atrocities continue to take place. Every day we witness 
expressions  of  the  darker  side  of  human  nature: 
thousands of innocent civilians besieged on a mountain 
in northern Iraq by heavily armed extremists; a Syrian 
dictator  who  bombs  and  starves  his  own  people, 
leaving more than 10 million people in need of urgent 
humanitarian  assistance;  the  persecution  of  people 
because  of  their  religious  or  political  beliefs,  their 
gender  or  sexual  orientation;  disrespect  for  national 
borders, challenging the basic principles on which our 
rules-based international order is built; climate change 
causing great risks to human health, global food security 
and economic development and to the natural resources 
on  which  so  much  of  our  prosperity  depends;  and  a 
world of more than 7 billion people with an increasing 
demand for key resources and an unsustainable pattern 
of consumption and production.
The  challenges  we  face  are  complex.  There  are 
no  simple  solutions.  What  is  required  of  us  is  strong, 
collective  international  action,  not  only  to  manage 
the  crises  and  conflicts  of  today  but  to  prevent  the 
crises and conflicts of tomorrow. I am a true believer 
in  international  cooperation  and  in  the  virtues  of  the 
United  Nations,  but  as  the  world  changes  and  we  are 
faced with new challenges, we must find new ways to 
adapt.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
I am also confident that we will adapt, but only if 
we  have  a  strong  United  Nations,  and  only  if  we  act 
together. As Member States each one of us must fulfil 
our obligations under the Charter. That is our common 
commitment and our shared responsibility. I see three 
challenges  where  we,  the  United  Nations,  should  act 
and should act now. Urgency is key.
First,  we  need  stronger  international  cooperation 
and action on peace and security. Secondly, we have to 
reach an ambitious international agreement on climate 
change next year in Paris. Thirdly, we have to agree on 
the post-2015 agenda for sustainable development.
Of  the  three  challenges,  the  first  is  international 
peace  and  security.  This  past  year,  we  have  seen  the 
rise  of  a  violent  and  intensifying  conflict  fuelled  by 
extremism, in particular the horrific and brutal terrorist 
organization, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL).  ISIL  represents  a  distorted  political  ideology 
that must be confronted, degraded and defeated by the 
entire  international  community,  including,  of  course, 
countries in the region. As we are gathered this week, 
22/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
the States Members of the United Nations are sending a 
clear message that we utterly condemn ISIL’s cowardly 
acts  of  terror  and  that  we  are  unified  in  our  firm 
resolve to oppose and confront its violent and extremist 
ideology.  Let  it  be  clear  that  we  are  determined  to 
support the Iraqi Government in protecting its people.
Denmark will stand up for our common values as 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter, and Denmark 
will  support  the  victims  of  ISIL’S  atrocities.  We  are 
taking part in the humanitarian relief efforts in northern 
Iraq, and we will continue our active contribution to the 
international efforts to support Iraq in the fight against 
ISIL. To stop the advance of ISIL, it is imperative to end 
the flow of foreign fighters and financing from outside. 
That indeed is a common obligation. It is also critical 
that  we  address  the  root  causes  of  violent  extremism 
and improve the conditions in Syria that ISIL has been 
able to exploit.
The humanitarian situation in Syria continues to be 
of great concern. Though progress is difficult, we must 
spare no effort to seek a political solution leading to a 
transition from the current regime. There will always 
be  a  risk  that  political  transition  will  be  exploited  by 
violent extremists. Still, history shows that democratic 
and  inclusive  Governments,  open  societies  and  a 
fundamental respect for human rights remain the only 
viable  path  towards  stability,  security  and  prosperity 
for our citizens.
Bringing an end to the violence in the region will 
require  a  sustained  and  comprehensive  contribution 
from  every  one  of  us.  The  successful  removal  of 
Al-Assad’s  chemical  weapons  clearly  demonstrated 
what can be achieved when we join forces in decisive 
international action. A coalition of Denmark, Norway, 
Russia,  China,  Finland,  the  United  Kingdom  and  the 
United  States  effectively  secured  and  destroyed  those 
horrendous weapons of war.
Our united response is also required against another 
growing threat. The Ebola epidemic has become a severe 
humanitarian, social and economic crisis for countries 
in West Africa. If we fail to act now, it may develop into 
a global health crisis, impacting millions of people. If 
so, we will not only be confronted with a health crisis 
but also with a threat to international peace, prosperity 
and security. It is very clear that this challenge cannot 
be  tackled  by  any  one  nation  alone.  That  is  why  we 
must all lend our support. The United Nations and its 
Member States have a common responsibility to bring 
Ebola under control.
Ebola  is  not  just  a  regional  challenge;  it  has  now 
become a global crisis. Denmark is committed to that 
cause. We have already contributed to the international 
response, including the United Nations humanitarian air 
service, and we will now increase our support. Today, 
I can announce that Denmark will provide a maritime 
transport  capacity  to  the  United  Nations.  With  that, 
we  will  support  the  construction  of  needed  housing 
facilities  for  the  international  health  personnel  in  the 
affected  areas.  We  will  provide  additional  funding  to 
the World Health Organization. As the situation evolves, 
we will stand ready to consider additional steps.
The global community is based on international law. 
That law must be respected and not blatantly violated, as 
we have seen done in the past year. We have witnessed 
an  unacceptable  foreign  intervention  in  Ukraine. 
Fundamental  principles  of  national  sovereignty  and 
non-interference  have  been  disrespected.  The  recent 
ceasefire is an important step on the only viable way 
forward,  namely,  a  political  solution.  Yet,  we  have 
to  see  Russia’s  commitment  to  a  political  solution 
demonstrated in action, not only in words. Throughout 
the  conflict  Russia’s  self-proclaimed  support  to  the 
peace process has been in stark contrast to realities on 
the ground.
territorial 
respects  Ukraine’s 
We remain fully committed to a political solution 
that 
integrity  and 
sovereignty.  Respect  for  international  law  and  human 
rights  should  always  be  at  the  very  core  of  peace 
and  development,  as  should  the  rule  of  law  and  good 
governance.  That  is  why  Denmark  strongly  supports 
bold and significant new steps in the United Nations, 
such as the Secretary-General’s recent Rights Up Front 
initiative.
This  year  also  marks  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the adoption of the United Nations Convention against 
Torture  and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman  or  Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment. Together with Chile, Ghana, 
Indonesia  and  Morocco,  Denmark  has  launched  a 
long-term  initiative  for  the  universal  ratification  and 
implementation  of  that  Convention.  We  have  made 
significant  progress,  but  we  also  need  to  do  more  to 
protect men and women in all parts of the world from 
torture and ill-treatment.
My second point is about the need to advance our 
collective  answer  to  the  challenges  posed  by  climate 
change.  Earlier  this  year  I  had  the  privilege,  together 
with  the  Premier  of  Greenland,  of  hosting  a  visit  by 
the  Secretary-General  to  Greenland.  We  travelled 
14-54835
23/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
together  by  dog  sleigh  on  the  receding  ice,  and  we 
heard the stories told by the local population about how 
the  changes  are  affecting  local  livelihoods.  Climate 
change is painfully visible in the Arctic. That is beyond 
discussion. Let there be no illusion that climate change 
will have only regional impacts. The changes will affect 
each  and  every  one  of  us  on  this  planet.  That  is  why 
ambitious action is required of us now. One crucial step 
would be a binding global agreement to reduce carbon 
dioxide emissions in Paris next year.
Since  2010,  Denmark  has  dedicated  $350  million 
to  climate  action.  This  year  alone,  we  will  commit 
more  than  $100  million.  But  Governments  cannot  do 
this  alone.  We  need  to  engage  the  private  sector  and 
other partners to commit to action and ensure adequate 
climate  finance  and  foster  innovation  and  green 
solutions. Some still might fear that the green transition 
will  limit  economic  growth.  That  is  not  necessarily 
so.  For  example,  the  Danish  economy  has  grown 
by  40  per  cent  since  1990,  while  our  total  emissions 
have decreased by 20 per cent in that same period. In 
other words, it is possible to de-link economic growth 
from  increased  emissions.  At  the  Secretary-General’s 
Climate  Summit  yesterday,  world  leaders  expressed 
their commitment to address those issues. Now is the 
time to deliver on that commitment.
The  third  and  final  area  where  Denmark  sees  an 
urgent  need  for  action  is  on  the  post-2015  agenda  for 
sustainable  development.  As  stated  by  the  Secretary-
General:  “Ours  is  the  first  generation  that  can  wipe 
poverty  from  the  face  of  the  Earth”  (A/68/PV.5,  p.  1). 
That  is  not  a  message  based  on  wishful  thinking.  It 
is based on the facts. It is within our reach and it has 
to  be  done.  Over  a  20-year  period,  from  1990-2010, 
700  million  people  have  been  lifted  out  of  extreme 
poverty.  Child  mortality  has  been  reduced  by  almost 
50 per cent. Ninety per cent of children in developing 
regions  now  attend  primary  schools.  That  represents 
truly historic progress. But still we need to do more.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  were 
formulated almost 15 years ago, and the world has, as 
we  know,  developed  rapidly  since.  Clearly,  the  new 
set  of  sustainable  development  goals  must  address 
and integrate the economic, social, and environmental 
dimensions of development.
Another  important  factor  is  to  ensure  women’s 
empowerment, gender equality and the rights of women 
and girls. That includes sexual and reproductive health 
rights. In too many places those fundamental rights are 
still not observed. Women and young girls must have 
the  right  to  decide  freely  whether  they  want  to  have 
children, when, how many, and with whom.
All  young  people  must  have  access  to  proper 
education.  Two  hundred  years  ago,  compulsory 
education was introduced in my country. Education for 
the many and not just for the few has been a primary 
driver in transforming Denmark into a democratic and 
prosperous nation. Education has also been a driver of 
gender equality, and still is. That is one aspect of the 
post-2015 agenda that is particularly close to my heart. 
I  have  been  very  proud  to  be  one  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Champions  for  his  Global  Education  First 
Initiative. One of our key priorities must be to ensure 
quality  education  also  for  the  most  disadvantaged 
groups and in the most vulnerable countries.
As we look at the global landscape today, insecurity 
is  sadly  on  the  rise.  We  all  know  who  is  paying  the 
highest price. Today for the first time since the Second 
World  War,  more  than  50  million  people  throughout 
the  world  have  been  displaced  owing  to  conflict  and 
violence. Far too many of those people are children.
We  need  a  United  Nations  that  can  help  mediate, 
prevent  and  resolve  armed  conflicts  and  promote 
universal respect for human rights. We need a United 
Nations that is committed to act against climate change. 
And  we  need  a  United  Nations  that  can  help  deliver 
sustainable  development  for  all  and  provide  effective 
assistance to countries suffering from the Ebola virus.
But the United Nations can do nothing without the 
collective political will of all of us, its Member States. 
The world needs a United Nations that adapts to new 
challenges  and  reflects  the  changing  global  political 
realities. Denmark supports a reformed Security Council 
that fulfils its primary purpose and responsibility when 
peace  and  security  is  threatened.  We  need  a  United 
Nations  based  on  the  strong  values  and  obligations 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  More  than 
ever, we need a United Nations that acts.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Denmark  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.
Ms.  Helle  Thorning-Schmidt,  Prime  Minister  of 
Denmark, was escorted from the rostrum.
24/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
Address by Mr. Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Prime 
Minister of Ukraine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Ukraine.
Mr. Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I have great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Arseniy 
Yatsenyuk,  Prime  Minister  of  Ukraine,  and  inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Yatsenyuk (Ukraine): Ukraine, as a co-founder 
of the United Nations, knows why we established this 
Organization  —  for  peace  and  stability.  Do  we  have 
this peace and stability? No, and yet our global aim and 
global target is to do everything we can to protect our 
citizens and to deliver peace to our nations. The global 
agenda today consists of a number of things. Everyone 
has mentioned the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, 
everyone  has  mentioned  Ebola,  and  everyone  has 
mentioned Ukraine. Frankly speaking I would be happy 
not  to  be  in  this  situation,  but  we  are  a  country  that 
knows what terrorism means, and not in words but in 
deeds, in practice.
Let me remind Members of the origin of the conflict 
that is evolving in Ukraine. Is it a domestic conflict? 
No.  It  is  true  that  my  country  has  some  internal 
differences, but every country has differences and we 
are ready to handle and tackle those differences inside 
our  country.  The  origin  of  the  conflict  is  an  invasion 
by  the  Russian  Federation.  A  permanent  member  of 
the  Security  Council  has  violated  the  United  Nations 
Charter, which is absolutely and entirely unacceptable 
behaviour,  especially  on  the  part  of  a  permanent 
member of the Council. It would be better for Russia to 
be an “insecurity” member rather than a security one.
Twenty  years  ago,  Ukraine  abandoned  its  nuclear 
weapons.  We  possessed  the  third-biggest  arsenal  in 
the  world.  When  we  agreed  to  relinquish  our  nuclear 
power  arsenal  in  Budapest,  Ukraine  got  guarantees 
of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty.  Russia  was  a 
co-signer  of  and  co-contributor  to  that  memorandum. 
Instead  of  security  guarantees,  20  years  later  we 
received  Russian  military  boots  on  Ukrainian  soil.  It 
seems  that  it  is  difficult  to  convince  another  country 
to stop nuclear proliferation. We are committed to our 
nuclear  non-proliferation  programme,  but  we  need 
to  have  valid  guarantees  of  our  territorial  integrity, 
security and independence.
A  few  months  ago, 
the  Russian  Federation 
annexed  Crimea.  One  country,  which  is  a  Member 
State of the United Nations and a permanent member 
of the Security Council, a country that is armed to the 
teeth,  just  decided  to  grab  the  land  of  its  neighbour, 
independent  Ukraine.  Let  me  commend  the  efforts  of 
United  Nations  Member  States  that  overwhelmingly 
supporting  Ukraine’s 
supported 
territorial 
illegal 
annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. They 
moved  further.  For  today  we  can  state  that  Russian 
troops are deployed in the east of Ukraine. The Russian 
Federation  violated  a  number  of  bilateral  and 
multilateral international agreements, starting with the 
United Nations Charter and ending with the resolutions 
on  counter-terrorism  that  were  adopted  at  the  United 
Nations.
the 
integrity  and  condemning 
resolution 
the 
We know what terrorism means, and we urge Russia 
to pull back its forces, to pull back its artillery, to stop 
supplying Russian-led terrorists, to restore control over 
the  Ukrainian-Russian  border,  and  to  start  real  talks, 
peace talks. We are the country that needs peace. It is 
difficult to hammer out any kind of peace deal at the 
barrel of a gun made in Russia.
Let me remind members of a tragedy that happened 
because of the Russian invasion. A few months ago, a 
civilian aircraft, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17, was 
downed by a Russian-made surface-to-air missile, and 
298 innocent civilians were killed. Ukraine mourns the 
victims.  We  pray  together  with  the  families  from  the 
Netherlands, Australia, the United Kingdom, Malaysia, 
Indonesia,  the  Philippines  and  Germany.  Ukraine 
handed over the investigation to an independent body 
which  is  Dutch-led.  We  urge  everyone  to  help  us  to 
bring  to  justice  those  responsible  for  this  despicable 
crime, a crime against humanity.
Every  day,  despite  the  ceasefire,  we  are  losing 
Ukrainian  soldiers  and  civilians,  and  the  shelling 
is  still  going  on.  I  reiterate  once  again  that  we  need 
peace. What is the formula for this peace? The military 
option  is  definitely  not  the  best  option.  It  has  to  be  a 
comprehensive  approach  which  comprises  diplomatic, 
financial, political and, only at the last, military options.
the  European  Union 
imposed a number of sanctions against Russia. We do 
understand that sanctions are the way to start real talks 
The  United  States  and 
14-54835
25/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
and to hammer out a peace deal. We have no trust in 
words. We have trust only in deeds and actions. Once 
again we reiterate our commitment to restore law and 
order.  We  urge  the  Russian  Federation  to  stick  to  its 
international obligation to execute everything that was 
written  in  Minsk.  This  is  not  a  menu  where  one  can 
pick the cherry. It means that Russia is to execute all 
12 points of this memorandum. We ask our partners not 
to lift sanctions until Ukraine takes over control of its 
entire  territory,  starting  with  the  east  of  Ukraine  and 
ending with Crimea. Crimea was, is and will be a part 
of Ukraine.
Let  me  end  with  a  direct  message  to  the  Russian 
President.  Mr.  Putin  can  win  the  fight  against  the 
troops, but he will never win the fight against a united 
Ukrainian nation.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Ukraine for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rashid  Meredov,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkmenistan.
Mr.  Meredov  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
First,  I  have  the  honour  to  convey  words  of  greeting 
and  wishes  of  peace  and  prosperity  to  the  Member 
States  and  their  people  on  behalf  of  the  President  of 
Turkmenistan, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow. I should 
like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election 
to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-ninth  session  and  wish  him  success  in  his 
forthcoming  responsibilities.  I  should  also  like  to 
express  my  appreciation  to  Mr.  John  Ashe,  President 
at the sixty-eighth session, for his skillful and effective 
work in this post.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  taking  place  against  the  background  of  difficult 
processes that we see in various regions of the world. 
Assessment  of 
their  causal 
relationships may differ, but it is apparent that in view 
of prevailing conditions the world community needs to 
apply balanced, sober and a highly responsible approach 
to emerging and potential challenges and threats.
these  processes  and 
The peaceful resolution of these conflicts must be 
achieved  by  diplomatic  approaches.  It  is  an  objective 
and  imperative  requirement  of  our  times.  Experience 
once again vividly demonstrates that there is no military 
solution  to  the  international  and  internal  conflicts  in 
today’s world. It is our firm conviction that the role of 
the  United  Nations  is  acquiring  decisive  importance. 
The  United  Nations  must  play  the  leading  role  in 
reconciling contradictions, preserving global stability, 
and  strengthening  peoples’  faith 
international 
institutions and legal frameworks.
in 
The  Security  Council  is  called  on  to  assume  a 
special  responsibility.  Its  functions  and  authority 
under the United Nations Charter cannot be questioned 
or  used  to  satisfy  some  individual  or  group  interest. 
The  Security  Council  is  and  must  remain  the  only 
universal legitimate body for maintaining global peace 
and  stability  and  safeguardingthe  political  and  moral 
foundations of the modern global architecture.
Turkmenistan  has  unceasingly  and  consistently 
advocated  the  expansion  and  maximum  use  of  the 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  potential.  Today,  the 
need  for  this  is  especially  relevant.  Therefore,  our 
country  proposes  to  actively  begin  the  development 
of  common  approaches  with  a  view  to  reducing  and, 
in future, completely eliminating all potential risks of 
confrontation.
As  the  Assembly  will  recall,  the  President  of 
Turkmenistan  stated  at  the  sixty-sixth  session  that  it 
was  necessary  to  adopt  a  United  Nations  declaration 
on  the  priority  use  of  political  and  diplomatic  means 
to  solve  international  problems  and  their  further 
consideration  at  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  ready 
to engage in meaningful and constructive discussions 
with all interested parties on this issue.
The logic of the development of global processes in 
the sphere of security dictates the need for fundamental 
strengthening  of  regional  cooperation  mechanisms. 
For  Central  Asia,  such  cooperation  should  ensure 
favourable  conditions  for  preserving  and  maintaining 
lasting peace and stability and for successful responses 
to  terrorist  threats,  extremism,  organized  crime  and 
drug trafficking.
In this connection, we consider it relevant to create 
a  standing  mechanism  of  political  consultations  to 
coordinate steps aimed at maintaining security in this 
area,  as  well  as  preventing  and  neutralizing  conflict 
situations and combating new threats. We propose that 
serious consideration be given to the idea of convening 
a  forum  on  security  and  cooperation  in  Central  Asia 
26/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
under the auspices of the United Nations as a starting 
platform for further work in this area.
We  stand  ready  to  host  such  a  forum  in  2015  in 
Turkmenistan’s capital, Ashgabat. As the host country 
of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive 
Diplomacy  for  Central  Asia,  Turkmenistan  advocates 
multilateral support for its work, which has proven to 
be highly effective. It is not by chance that in August 
2012 the United Nations Security Council emphasized 
the  great  importance  of  preventive  diplomacy  and 
early  settlement  of  disputes  and  in  this  connection 
supported  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  Regional 
Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia. We 
are convinced that in the context of current and future 
developments  of  political,  economic,  environmental 
and humanitarian processes in the Central Asian region 
and neighbouring areas, the mandate of the Centre will 
be especially relevant and necessary. We therefore call 
for more active involvement of that Centre in various 
aspects  of  regional  problems  with  the  support  of 
Member States.
the  Regional  Centre  and 
Turkmenistan  also  believes  that  it  is  essential  to 
establish  a  more  focused  and  substantive  interaction 
between 
international 
organizations, including the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  European  Union,  the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Commonwealth 
of  Independent  States,  and  other  bodies,  with  a  view 
to  elaborating  common  approaches  to  such  current 
issues  as  transnational  threats,  terrorism,  illegal  drug 
trafficking, environmental challenges, management of 
transboundary water and energy resources, and regional 
security in the context of the situation in Afghanistan.
In  speaking  of  this,  I  wish  to  underline  that  the 
settlement  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  is  a  key 
factor  in  achieving  regional  peace  and  stability.  It  is 
essential  to  support  the  positive  processes  that  are 
taking place in this country and to provide the Afghan 
people with real assistance in achieving reconciliation 
and accord. That can be achieved only through peaceful 
negotiation. There are no other options here.
As a neutral country and Afghanistan’s immediate 
neighbour, Turkmenistan offered its political space for 
the organization of a broad-based inter-Afghan national 
dialogue under the auspices and active involvement of 
the United Nations. We already have joint experience 
in conducting negotiations in such a format. We believe 
that  it  could  be  used  today  as  well.  Such  dialogue, 
in  addition  to  purely  political  aspects,  implies  the 
discussion of a full set of measures aimed at providing 
specific  economic  support  to  Afghanistan  and  the 
involvement  of  that  country  in  regional  integration 
processes and future infrastructure projects.
For  many  years  Turkmenistan  has  provided 
assistance to its neighbour in building social facilities 
and  initiated  the  implementation  of  major  transport 
and  energy  projects  with  Afghanistan’s  participation. 
In particular, I note the project envisaging construction 
of 
the  Turkmenistan/Pakistan/India  gas  pipeline, 
preparations  for  which  are  nearing  the  final  stages. 
Another  major  project,  which  was  launched  in  May 
last year, involves the construction of a Turkmenistan/
Afghanistan/Tajikstan  railway.  We  consider 
these 
projects  to  be  key  in  rebuilding  the  economy  and 
social spheres of Afghanistan, and enabling it to make 
thetransition to a peaceful and creative existence.
For a number of years our country has consistently 
supplied  electric  power  to  Afghanistan  on  highly 
favourable  terms.  In  the  near  future,  thanks  to  the 
commissioning  of  new  power-generating  capacities 
in  Turkmenistan,  we  are  prepared  to  increase  the 
volume  of  power  supplied  to  Afghanistan  many-fold. 
As  in  the  past,  we  provide  purpose-oriented  training 
of  specialists  for  the  Afghan  economy,  health  care 
and  social  spheres.  We  will  continue  to  provide  all-
encompassing help to the fraternal Afghan people. It is 
our principled position.
Turkmenistan believes that the irreversible nature 
of  the  disarmament  process  is  the  most  important 
prerequisite for the peaceful and creative development 
of the region and the establishment of a climate of trust, 
openness and cooperation in Central Asia. Our country 
proceeds from the assumption that the inert model of the 
past century, which was based on the constant build-up 
of armaments, has become irrelevant in today’s world. 
Furthermore,  it  considerably  hampers  and  sometimes 
directly  undermines  efforts  by  States  towards  social 
and  economic  development, 
the  enhancement  of 
people’s  standards  of  living,  and  the  development  of 
successful  economic  cooperation.  It  is  our  conviction 
that the fewer weapons there are in the world, the more 
stable  and  peaceful  its  development  will  be,  and  the 
more  trust  and  understanding  among  countries  and 
peoples will deepen.
We call for consistent strengthening of international 
and  regional  cooperation  in  reducing  the  arsenals 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the  effective 
implementation  of  the  non-proliferation  regime.  As  a 
14-54835
27/29
A/69/PV.8 
24/09/2014
party to the basic disarmament treaties and conventions 
of the United Nations, Turkmenistan intends to continue 
to provide support to all the relevant processes.In this 
connection, while emphasizing the landmark nature of 
the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the 
2015  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons that was 
held  in  Vienna  in  2012,  Turkmenistan  believes  that  it 
is  key  to  continue  the  current  dialogue  on  measures 
aimed at expanding the international legal framework 
of non-proliferation.
In 
This dialogue becomes especially relevant in view 
of  the  practical  steps  that  are  being  taken  in  order  to 
implement the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 
in Central Asia. Our country stands ready to engage in 
constructive disarmament cooperation with the Office 
of the Deputy Secretary-General and to participate in 
the  implementation  of  a  number  of  initiatives  in  this 
regard. One of the practical steps in the implementation 
of measures for disarmament could be the improvement 
of  existing  United  Nations  structures. 
this 
context,  we  believe  that  it  will  be  useful  to  consider 
the  establishment  of  a  United  Nations  subregional 
disarmament centre in Central Asia.
forward 
logical 
continuation at this session of the broad-based dialogue 
on energy security as one of the fundamental elements 
of the United Nations sustainable development strategy 
initiated by the President of Turkmenistan. As is well 
known, in May 2013 the General Assembly unanimously 
adopted resolution 67/263 entitled “Reliable and stable 
transit  of  energy  and  its  role  in  ensuring  sustainable 
development  and 
international  cooperation”.  The 
resolution  was  sponsored  by  71  Member  States.  The 
adoption  of  the  resolution  was  yet  another  major  and 
consecutive step in advancing international cooperation 
in the sphere of energy. We believe that adherence to 
the letter and spirit of that document should acquire a 
substantive and purpose-oriented nature.
the 
Turkmenistan 
looks 
to 
In this connection, we call on Member States and 
the  Secretariat  to  actively  undertake  consultations  on 
the  practical  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 
resolution. In particular, we note the institutionalization 
of  the  work  of  the  international  group  of  experts  on 
energy  cooperation  and  nominating  representatives 
of  Member  States  to  that  group.  In  December,  the 
first  international  meeting  of  experts  will  take  place 
in  Turkmenistan.  It  is  designed  to  launch  systematic 
work on the establishment of a new legal framework of 
cooperation  in  sustainable  energy.  We  invite  Member 
States and all interested parties to take part in it.
that  approach.  Moreover,  Turkmenistan 
The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro,  entitled  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution 
66/288, annex), emphasizes the central role of transport 
and  mobility  in  sustainable  development.  We  fully 
share 
is 
convinced that it is high time to undertake systematic 
global cooperation and strategic planning in transport 
as a separate, long-term area of United Nations activity.
In early September, Turkmenistan’s capital hosted 
a  high-level  international  conference  dedicated  to 
the  role  of  transport  and  transit  corridors  in  ensuring 
international  cooperation,  stability  and  sustainable 
development.  The  Ashgabat  Declaration  adopted  at 
the end of the Conference reflects the need to develop 
new  modern  criteria  for  cooperation  in  this  sphere 
that  are  oriented  towards  diversification,  security, 
accessibility, environmental safety of the transportation 
infrastructure, and its maximum correspondence to the 
realities  of  current  global  development,  taking  into 
account  the  needs  of  developing  countries,  including 
landlocked  States.  As  the  President  of  Turkmenistan 
emphasized  in  his  address  to  the  participants  at  that 
conference, the global transport strategy of the twenty-
first  century  is  a  strategy  for  integration,  combining 
geographical  and  infrastructural  opportunities  with 
the technical and technological potentials of States and 
regions.
The very fact of the convening of that conference 
was  a  momentous  event,  signalling  a  comprehensive 
approach  to  the  development  of  transport  and  transit 
corridors based on constructive and real partnerships. 
Our  country  has  submitted  the  Ashgabat  Declaration 
to  the  Secretariat  for  its  distribution  among  Member 
States as an official document. We hope that it will be 
studied with interest and that there will be further use of 
this Declaration in international agreements, including 
those of the sixty-ninth session of the Assembly.
With  a  view  to  the  accelerated  development  of 
international  transport  infrastructure,  Turkmenistan 
advocates  closer  cooperation  and  partnerships  with 
specialized  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  first  and 
foremost  the  Economic  Commission  for  Europe  and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and 
the  Pacific.  We  are  convinced  that  such  cooperation 
corresponds  to  the  logic  of  modern  development  and 
28/29 
14-54835
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.8
international  cooperation  in  transport  in  the  Eurasian 
continent.
Turkmenistan  fully  supports  the  decisions  taken 
during  the  Summits  on  Climate  Change  held  in 
Copenhagen and Cancún, at the seventeenth Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  held  in  Durban,  and 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development. We look forward to the continuation of 
constructive international dialogue on these issues. We 
are convinced that it is necessary to consistently combine 
efforts at the international, regional and national levels. 
In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  implement  the  agreed-upon  decisions  and 
his  sense  of  utmost  responsibility  in  his  approach 
to  international  cooperation  with  respect  to  climate 
change issues. Our country recently launched a number 
of specific initiatives aimed at enhancing regional and 
global cooperation in this sphere.
I  wish  to  single  out  Turkmenistan’s  humanitarian 
efforts  as  a  member  of  major  United  Nations 
humanitarian  agencies.  Turkmenistan  takes  practical 
steps to ensure the rights and freedoms of its citizens. 
In  particular,  our  country  devotes  major  attention 
to  solving  issues  relating  to  the  rights  of  refugees, 
migrants  and  stateless  persons.  Last  June,  in  our 
capital,  the  Government  of  Turkmenistan,  along  with 
the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees,  organized  the  International  Conference 
on  Migration  and  Statelessness.  Upon  its  conclusion, 
the  Conference  adopted  a  declaration  that  spells  out 
urgent  tasks  to  improve  multilateral  cooperation, 
strengthen international legal frameworks, and reform 
national  legislation  on  migrants  andstateless  persons 
and their legal and social protection, material support 
and  adaptation.  Turkmenistan  will  endeavour  at  this 
session to translate the main provisions of this outcome 
document  into  reality.  We  reaffirm  our  desire  and 
readiness to continue close cooperation with the IOM, 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees, Member States and all stakeholders.
Our  country  views  the  sixty-ninth  session  as  a 
major step towards consolidating international efforts 
to resolve key issues on the global agenda, to reaffirm 
the  leading  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  maintaining 
and strengthening universal peace and stability and to 
agree  on  sustainable  development  goals.  We  reaffirm 
our strong commitment to cooperation with the United 
Nations,  our  readiness  to  actively  participate  and 
promote  its  peacekeeping,  political  and  diplomatic 
endeavours  and 
its  projects  and 
programmes  in  the  economic,  social,  environmental, 
humanitarian and other spheres.
implement 
to 
For  Turkmenistan,  partnership  with  the  United 
Nations has been and continues to be a strategic priority, 
a conceptual and practical foundation for our activities 
in the international arena.
The meeting rose at 10 p.m.
14-54835
29/29
