United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
47th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 111 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic 
and Social Council
The President: In accordance with rule 140 of the 
General Assembly’s rules of procedure, the Assembly 
will  now  hold  by-elections  to  elect  members  of  the 
Economic and Social Council.
Members  are  reminded  that  at  the  32nd  plenary 
meeting,  on  29  October  2014,  the  following  18  States 
were  elected  members  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  for  a  three-year  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1  January  2015:  Argentina,  Austria,  Brazil,  Burkina 
Faso,  Estonia,  France,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece, 
Honduras, India, Japan, Mauritania, Pakistan, Portugal, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda and Zimbabwe.
I would first like to draw the attention of members 
to a letter dated 30 September 2014 from the Permanent 
Representative of Switzerland to the United Nations.
In  the  letter,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Switzerland,  in  his  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Western European and Other States, announces that at 
the end of the year 2014, Canada will relinquish its seat 
on the Economic and Social Council for the remaining 
term  in  favour  of  Australia;  Denmark  will  relinquish 
its  seat  for  the  remaining  term  in  favour  of  Finland; 
and  New  Zealand  will  relinquish  its  seat  in  favour  of 
Switzerland.
As  a  result,  three  vacancies  will  occur,  and  new 
members must therefore be elected to fill the unexpired 
terms of office of Canada, Denmark and New Zealand, 
commencing  on  1  January  2015  and  expiring  on 
31  December  2015,  in  the  case  of  Canada,  and  on 
31  December  2016,  in  the  case  of  Denmark  and  New 
Zealand.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of resolution 2847 
(XXVI), of 20 December 1971, and taking into account 
that the vacancies will occur from among the Group of 
Western European and Other States, the new members 
should therefore be elected from that region.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
candidates  that  receive  a  two-thirds  majority  and  the 
greatest  number  of  votes  by  members  present  and 
voting will be declared elected. May I take it that the 
General Assembly agrees to that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the 
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret 
ballot, and there shall be no nominations. We shall now 
proceed accordingly.
I should like to inform members that, as of 1 January 
2015,  the  following  States  from  among  the  Group  of 
Western European and Other States will be represented 
on the Economic and Social Council: Austria, France, 
Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, San Marino, Sweden, 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland and the United States of America. The names 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-61597 (E)
*1461597*
A/69/PV.47 
10/11/2014
of  those  10  States  should  therefore  not  appear  on  the 
ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
I would like to remind members that, at this stage, 
they are voting in a by-election for three seats for the 
Western European and Other States.
Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  I  request 
representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot  papers  and 
to  write  on  them  the  names  of  the  States  for  which 
they  wish  to  vote.  A  ballot  will  be  declared  invalid 
if it contains more names of Member States from the 
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it. 
A ballot will also be declared invalid if all the names 
of the Member States on that ballot do not belong to the 
relevant region.
At the invitation of the President, Ms. Ling (Brunei 
Darussalam),  Mr.  Cabezas  (Chile),  Mr.  Cohen 
(Netherlands), Mr. Borje (Philippines), Mr. Stefanik 
(Poland) and Mr. Kayinamura (Rwanda) acted as 
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.30  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.15 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Group B — Western European and Other States
162
Number of ballot papers:  
0
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
162
4
Abstentions:  
158
Number of members present and voting:  
Required two-thirds majority:  
106
Number of votes obtained:
Finland  
Australia  
Switzerland  
Luxembourg  
155
154
149
1
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
the  following  three  States  were  elected  members 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  terms 
beginning  on  1  January  2015:  Australia,  for  a 
term  ending  on  31  December  2015;  and  Finland 
and Switzerland, for terms ending on 31 December 
2016.
The  President:  I  congratulate  Australia,  Finland 
and  Switzerland  for  having  been  elected  members  of 
the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 114.
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.
2/2 
14-61597
