United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
31st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 28 October 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Mrs. Al-Mughairy 
(Oman), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 40 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/98)
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speaker in explanation of vote, may I remind delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  King  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines): 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  69/5,  and  we  align  ourselves  fully  with  the 
statements  delivered  this  morning  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean  Community,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  the  Community  of 
Latin American and Caribbean States(see A/69/PV.30).
Previous  versions  of  this  resolution  have  been 
adopted  for  the  past  22  sessions  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  have  enjoyed  near-unanimous  support 
over  the  years.  Indeed,  today  was  no  different.  There 
is  no  other  example  of  the  international  community 
speaking  so  overwhelmingly  and  so  consistently. 
However, the embargo remains stubbornly in place, and 
its negative impacts have intensified.
The  embargo  has  been  and  continues  to  be  a 
violation  of  International  law.  It  is  contrary  to  the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  takes 
the  floor  to  re-emphasize  our  deeply  held  conviction 
that  the  ongoing  embargo  is  a  flagrant,  massive  and 
systematic  violation  of  the  rights  of  an  entire  people. 
Moreover,  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  not  merely  a 
bilateral matter, between Cuba and the United States, 
but,  due  to  its  extraterritorial  nature,  it  violates  the 
sovereign rights of many other States.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines believes that this 
blockade is not only illegal but morally unsustainable. 
Thomas Paine, in the introduction to his famed essay 
entitled “Common Sense”, wrote:
“A long habit of not thinking a thing wrong gives 
it a superficial appearance of being right and raises 
at first a formidable outcry in defence of custom. 
But  the  tumult  soon  subsides.  Time  makes  more 
converts than reason.”
And  so  it  is  today,  with  respect  to  this  blockade. 
Citizens  across  the  United  States  are  joining  the 
international community by increasingly voicing their 
disapproval and calling for the lifting of the unilateral 
sanctions.  Opposition  to  this  inhumane  policy  is  now 
almost  universal  in  nature.  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines therefore feels compelled to recall the words 
of President Barack Obama in his inaugural address to 
the  United  Nations  in  2009.  President  Obama  told  us 
then:  “The  world  must  stand  together  to  demonstrate 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59369 (E)
*1459369*
A/69/PV.31 
28/10/2014
that  international  law  is  not  an  empty  promise”  and 
that: 
“No one nation can or should try to dominate another 
nation. No world order that elevates one nation or 
group of people over another will succeed. ... The 
traditional divisions between nations of the South 
and the North make no sense in an interconnected 
world, nor do alignments of nations rooted in the 
cleavages of a long-gone cold war.
the  challenges 
the  old  arguments  are 
“The  time  has  come  to  realize  that  the  old 
irrelevant 
faced  by  our  peoples.”  
habits  and 
to 
(A/64/PV.3, pp. 11 and 10)
We believe that the time has indeed come for the 
right thing to be done. And as President Obama enters 
the  final  phase  of  his  presidency,  we  hope  that  his 
understanding of what is just will soon be accompanied 
by the requisite action to make it so.
The Cuban people have given freely of themselves 
in a manner that has touched the hearts of the people of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. No dollar amount can 
adequately reflect the value of their support, solidarity 
and partnership. Our appreciation cannot be overstated. 
We also join the international community in applauding 
the  Cuban  Government  for  its  response  to  the  Ebola 
virus  and  its  efforts  to  combat  it.  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines remains unequivocal in its call for the 
removal  of  this  constraint  on  the  development  of  our 
Caribbean neighbour.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea): It is the consistent policy of the Government 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
oppose  every  kind  of  sanction,  including  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargoes  on  sovereign 
States.  The  United  States  blockade  of  Cuba  is  a 
legacy  of  the  Cold  War,  designed  to  overthrow  the 
legitimate social system chosen by the Cuban people. 
The  unilateral  and  extraterritorial  embargo  imposed 
by  the  United  States  on  Cuba  constitutes  an  obvious 
infringement on Cuba’s sovereignty, in clear violation 
of the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law,  and  is  a  violation  of  human  rights  that  tramples 
on  people’s  right  to  life  and  development.  It  deserves 
to be condemned as strongly as possible by the United 
Nations and the international community.
The criminal policy of the imposition by the United 
States  of  an  embargo  on  Cuba  for  more  than  half  a 
century has caused economic and social losses to Cuba 
its  people’s  well-being.  This 
amounting to more than $1.1 trillion, as well as affecting 
third-party  countries  that  have  normal  economic  and 
trade  relations  with  Cuba,  and  thus  remains  the  main 
obstacle  to  the  country’s  socioeconomic  development 
and 
inhumane  and 
anachronistic  policy  should  therefore  be  terminated 
without  delay, 
relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  demands  of  the 
international community. Today the States Members of 
the United Nations - including Cuba, which aspires to 
sustainable  development  in  a  peaceful  environment  - 
have  unanimously  demanded  an  end  to  the  unilateral 
economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba 
by the United States.
in  conformity  with 
the 
Consistent with our customary stand in opposition 
to  any  kind  of  interference  or  sanctions  against 
sovereign  States,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  today  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  69/5,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba, as it has for 
similar resolutions in the past, and once again strongly 
urges  the  United  States  to  abandon  its  blockade  of 
Cuba immediately. The Government of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea fully supports the efforts of 
the Government and people of Cuba to end the United 
States  embargo,  and  will  continue  to  further  expand 
and develop its economic and trade relations with Cuba 
in the future.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  strong  support 
for  and  solidarity  with  the  struggle  of  the  Cuban 
Government  and  people  to  safeguard  their  national 
dignity  and  sovereignty  against  the  attempts  by  the 
United States to impose a unilateral blockade.
Mr. Elnor (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I 
would like to welcome the participation in this morning’s 
meeting (A/69/PV.30) of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
The  Sudan  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  this  morning  by  the  representatives  of 
Bolivia  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  (NAM),  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, and Saudi Arabia on behalf of the members of 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
We  voted  with  complete  conviction  today  in 
favour  of  resolution  69/5,  on  the  necessity  of  ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
2/8 
14-59369
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.31
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. 
Once more, and for the twenty-third time, the General 
Assembly  has  renewed  its  categorical  rejection  of  the 
unjust unilateral sanctions policy imposed by the United 
States on Cuba. Through today’s vote, the international 
community has spoken unanimously in expressing its 
total  condemnation  of  such  coercive  measures,  which 
are  contrary  to  international  law  and  the  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  marine  and 
trade freedoms, as well as the rules and customs that 
have traditionally regulated international economic and 
financial relations among States.
The  overwhelming  majority  –  188  countries 
–  voting  in  favour  of  the  resolution  highlights  the 
illegality  of  the  aggressive  United  States  policies 
against  Cuba,  which  have  continued  for  the  past  55 
years. It emphasizes Member States’ unity of support 
in  the  face  of  dictatorial  and  hegemonic  policies, 
interference in the internal affairs of another State and 
the imposition of coercive unilateral measures against 
another  nation  in  an  attempt  to  affect  their  national 
choices amd their social and economic systems. That is 
illegal, unacceptable and undemocratic, and it deserves 
the total condemnation of the international community. 
Year  after  year,  the  General  Assembly  renews  its 
rejection  of  individual  unilateral  coercive  measures 
that have a negative effect on the economic and social 
development of developing countries in particular and 
run counter to the outcome document of the 2012 United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  and  relevant  documents 
adopted  in  the  past  at  meetings  and  summits  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, NAM and developing countries 
as a means of settling political accounts.
Since  1997,  my  country  has  been  dealing  with 
a  unilateral  and  unfair  embargo  imposed  on  it  by  the 
United States and renewed last week. It has adversely 
affected every area of life, including bank transactions, 
access  to  loans,  the  ability  to  import  spare  parts  and 
cooperation  with  other  countries  seeking  to  meet  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  achieve  peace 
and security. For that reason, and through our expression 
of solidarity with the friendly Government and people 
of Cuba, we reject such illegal embargo policies, which 
have had an impact on every aspect of our lives, at the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels,  and  have 
had a serious impact on the poor and vulnerable.
We  wish  to  express  our  complete  solidarity  with 
Cuba as well as our appreciation for its humanitarian 
role  in  fighting  the  Ebola  epidemic  in  Africa.  We 
also express our solidarity with all nations, especially 
developing countries, that reject unilateral and illegal 
measures.  We  call  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  and 
sanctions on Cuba and oppose all similarly illegal and 
inhuman policies that weigh upon other countries.
Ms.  Carrion  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  presence  of 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla. 
Next, I would like to align my statement with the 
statements  made  on  behalf  of  the  Southern  Common 
Market,  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States and the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/69/PV.30).
As in previous years, Uruguay has voted in favour 
of  the  resolution  presented  by  the  delegation  of  Cuba 
(resolution 69/5) on the understanding that the embargo 
against  that  country  is  contrary  to  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
contravenes the rules of international law, in particular 
the  rules  governing  international  trade  and  those 
involving members of the World Trade Organization. 
Uruguay’s position fits into the broader context of 
defending  multilateralism,  non-intervention  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, which are fundamental 
principles of our diplomacy. In addition, this situation 
affects  another  fundamental  principle,  that  of  the 
legal  equality  of  States.  It  is  precisely  out  of  respect 
for that principle our country rejects any unilateral or 
extraterritorial coercive measure that violates the rules 
of  international  law  and  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  the  clearest  contemporary  example 
of which is the embargo unjustly imposed against the 
Republic of Cuba. 
The Eastern Republic of Uruguay has expressed on 
several  occasions  and  reiterates  at  this  time  its  direct 
opposition to the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba, which severely affects 
the welfare of the Cuban people. Indeed, the blockade, 
contrary  to  the  principle  of  justice  and  human  rights, 
represents  a  collective  punishment  of  the  Cuban 
people as it generates shortages, seriously damages the 
Cuban  economy  and  limits  and  retards  the  country’s 
development. 
Out  of  principle,  Uruguay  rejects  and  does  not 
recognize in its national legislation the extraterritorial 
application  of  domestic  laws  of  other  States.  In  that 
14-59369
3/8
A/69/PV.31 
28/10/2014
regard,  we  condemn  the  application  of  unilateral 
coercive measures by the United States against Cuba, 
which are a form of pressure and an obstacle to dialogue 
and  the  necessary  rapprochement  between  the  parties 
that  we  hope  to  see  resumed.  By  voting  in  favour  of 
resolution  69/5,  Uruguay  reiterates  its  commitment 
to  multilateralism  as  a  legitimate  instrument  for  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes between States and an 
effective tool for promoting international cooperation, 
human  rights,  security  and  understanding  among 
peoples.
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  I  would  like  first  to 
welcome  the  presence  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba. 
The  delegation  of  Indonesia  associates  itself  with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, the Islamic Republic of 
Iran and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, who spoke on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 
respectively (see A/69/PV.30).
Faithful to its history and to its national character, 
Indonesia is a country committed to peace, justice and 
equality.  For  that  reason,  Indonesia  stands  before  the 
General Assembly to once again declare our unstinting 
support for ending the embargo against Cuba. We must 
without delay overcome this relic of another time, for 
it  has  no  raison  d’être  in  the  millennium  that  we  are 
building together. I will give the Assembly four valid 
reasons bringing the embargo to an end.
First, it is against the very principles of the sovereign 
equality of all Member States and of non-intervention 
and non-interference in each others’ domestic affairs, 
as stipulated in the Charter of the United Nations. The 
Charter clearly sets forth the need for Member States 
to  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  against  the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of  any 
State.  The  continued  imposition  of  an  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba 
clearly  violates  the  Charter.  All  Member  States  are 
equal. None is above any other, as we are bound by the 
principles of friendly relations among nations under the 
Charter.  At  the  United  Nations,  dialogue  has  always 
been  the  form  put  forward  by  any  civilized  nation  to 
resolve differences. There should be cooperation rather 
than confrontation.
Secondly, the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba has caused significant 
economic  and  social  hardship  that  can  hardly  be 
justified on humanitarian grounds. It has caused years 
of  deprivation  for  the  people  of  Cuba,  especially  for 
vulnerable groups such as children, women and older 
persons. That is a great burden for a developing country 
whose  people  would  benefit  tremendously  from  the 
good  faith  of  developed  countries.  The  Assembly  has 
also  been  discussing  an  ambitious  vision  to  eradicate 
poverty  through  an  inclusive  post-2015  development 
agenda. That agenda would be inclusive only if those 
who are most vulnerable, including the people of Cuba, 
were involved in the process and were able to enjoy the 
benefits of development without any constraints being 
brought to bear by foreign hands.
Thirdly,  the  sanctions  are  a  counterproductive 
policy  that  has  curbed  opportunities  and  economic 
benefits  for  Cuba  and  other  countries,  including 
countries that hold economic and commercial ties with 
Cuba.  In  that  process,  the  sovereignty  of  other  States 
and  their  jurisdiction  in  national  legislation  has  been 
encroached  upon.  Cuba  is  not  the  only  victim.  We, 
developing  countries,  trade  partners  and  financial 
investors, are also victims of this undeserved embargo.
Fourthly,  our  regional  experience  in  South-East 
Asia  has  immensely  increased  our  confidence  in  the 
idea that engagement does more good than isolation in 
advancing the noble causes to which all States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  subscribe.  The  time  is  ripe  for 
relations between the parties involved to be transformed 
through constructive engagement. Cuba should be able 
to  exercise  its  right  to  develop  and  grow,  unhindered 
by restrictions to its trade and other business activities.
While  it  is  true  that  some  small  but  meaningful 
changes  have  occurred  in  recent  times,  such  as  the 
easing of restrictions on travel to Cuba and the removal 
of obstacles to the transfer of remittances, the preferred 
outcome  is  for  the  embargo  to  be  lifted  completely. 
Indonesia  urges  States  to  renounce  applying  laws  or 
measures  of  an  extraterritorial  nature  that  affect  the 
sovereignty of other States, the lawful interests of their 
subjects  or  of  other  persons  under  their  jurisdiction, 
and the freedom of trade and navigation.
Indonesia  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  69/5  and 
reiterates  the  call  for  the  immediate  cessation  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
4/8 
14-59369
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.31
Cuba. Our message is very simple. Our message is very 
clear. This embargo has to end.
can  be  left  alone  to  pursue  their  economic  and  social 
destiny.
Mr.  Shava  (Zimbabwe):  I  would  like  to  welcome 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, to this Hall. 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, Bolivia 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and Malawi on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.30).
Once again, Zimbabwe wishes to express its concern 
over  the  illegal  and  ruinous  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  of  Cuba  by  the  United  States. 
Zimbabwe is dismayed that, instead of being removed, 
the  embargo  is  actually  being  reinforced,  resulting 
in  greater  suffering  for  the  people  and  tremendous 
disruptions to Cuban business activities and financial 
transactions.  The  majority  of  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  have  continued  to  reject,  as  they  did 
today, the passing of national laws with extraterritorial 
impact  and  all  other  coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions,  which  are  mainly 
targeted  against  developing  countries  that  seek  to 
reassert  their  sovereignty.  Zimbabwe,  another  victim 
of  ill-conceived,  illegal  and  immoral  sanctions,  fully 
understands their impact. 
During the past 20 years, Zimbabwe has stated that 
the embargo against Cuba contravenes the fundamental 
norms of international law, international humanitarian 
law, the Charter of the United Nations and all the norms 
and  principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among 
States. The embargo is also a violation of the principles of 
the sovereign equality of States and of non-intervention 
and  non-interference  in  each  other’s  domestic  affairs. 
Those  principles  were  reaffirmed  in  the  Declaration 
of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels (resolution 67/1) adopted on 24 September 2012, 
in  which  Heads  of  State  and  Government  strongly 
urged States to refrain from promulgating and applying 
unilateral economic, financial and trade measures not 
in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the  Charter 
of the United Nations that impede the full achievement 
of  economic  and  social  development,  particularly  in 
developing countries.
Zimbabwe 
therefore 
in 
condemning the punitive embargo on Cuba, and calls 
for its unconditional lifting so that the people of Cuba 
joins  other  countries 
Mr.  Kihurani  (Kenya):  In  explanation  of  vote, 
Kenya  associates  itself  with  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representatives  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China;  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement;  and  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States (See A/69/PV.30). 
Kenya  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  69/5,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”.  As  in  previous  years,  Kenya 
remains  opposed  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  on 
Cuba, based on the fact that the application of unilateral 
and extraterritorial economic and financial embargoes 
violates  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  law.  Kenya  condemns  the 
use of economic coercive measures designed to prevent 
countries from exercising the right to decide their own 
political,  economic  and  social  systems.  Therefore,  it 
calls upon Member States not to recognize the embargo 
against Cuba, which has had a negative impact on the 
well-being of the Cuban people.
Kenya’s  consistent  opposition  to  the  embargo 
against Cuba is also based on the fact that Cuba remains 
an  integral  part  of  the  international  community,  and 
Kenya  maintains  bilateral  relations  and  cooperation 
with  Cuba.  Kenya  continues  to  engage  with  Cuba  in 
a  constructive  and  mutually  beneficial  manner.  In 
addition, Cuba, being an integral part of the international 
community,  should  not  be  isolated  or  excluded  from 
participation  in  regional  and  international  processes. 
Indeed, Cuba itself has always remained very engaged 
with the African continent. Few countries in the world 
have shown the solidarity that Cuba has shown towards 
Africa.  Its  contribution  has  been  and  continues  to  be 
manifested through the provision of military, education 
and  health  assistance,  as  well  as  in  a  variety  of  other 
fields.  Its  particular  focus  on  collaboration  in  the 
medical  field  has  also  seen  Cuba  provide  the  largest 
number of doctors from any country to assist Africa in 
tackling the Ebola epidemic. That is a demonstration of 
true  friendship  and  support  from  our  Cuban  brothers 
and sisters. We commend Cuba, we salute Cuba and we 
celebrate Cuba.
Various  United  Nations  agencies,  including  the 
United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations 
14-59369
5/8
A/69/PV.31 
28/10/2014
Development Programme, have drawn the attention of 
Member States to the negative impacts of the embargo, 
particularly to how the unilateral measures have harmed 
Cuban children and hampered Cuba’s ability to acquire 
necessary  technical  or  medical  equipment,  especially 
those materials that are under United States patent.
Kenya calls for the lifting of all unilateral measures 
that affect or alter free trade and regional socioeconomic 
cooperation.  The  embargo,  being  extraterritorial  in 
nature,  violates  international  law  and  international 
trade  rules  and  runs  counter  to  the  principle  of  trade 
liberalization.  It  has  constrained  the  efforts  of  the 
Government and people of Cuba to eradicate poverty, 
improve their living standards and achieve their desired 
level of economic and social development. 
In  Kenya,  we  believe  that  the  principles  of 
non-intervention  must  be  respected  and  upheld.  The 
embargo  represents  a  major  impediment  to  the  right 
of  development  of  sovereign  States  and  their  peoples. 
The right to development is a basic human, economic 
and cultural right. Therefore, the embargo remains an 
obstacle to the call for achieving the global development 
agenda  expressed  in  the  outcome  document  of  the 
Millennium Summit (resolution 55/2).
Despite  the  incredible  challenges  posed  by  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba, Cuba’s 
commitment  to  the  social  and  economic  progress  and 
well-being of other developing countries continues and 
is greatly appreciated. 
In  conclusion,  Kenya  reiterates  its  unwavering 
support for the right of the Cuban people to determine 
their social and economic development, in the manner 
deemed  most  beneficial  to  them.  The  embargo  must 
end.
Mr. Santa Rosa (Angola): Angola voted in favour 
of  resolution  69/5,  thereby  reiterating  its  appeal  for 
an  end  to  the  economic,  trade  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba, 
since  the  embargo  also  violates  international  law,  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the rules of free trade. The embargo stands as a clear 
violation  of  human  rights,  as  it  affects  the  material, 
psychological  and  spiritual  well-being  of  the  Cuban 
people, and imposes severe obstacles to their economic, 
cultural  and  social  development,  with  a  significant 
negative impact on sensitive sectors such as health care, 
education and food.
Angola  notes  with  concern  the  continuation  and 
resurgence of the extraterritorial nature of the embargo, 
since  it  amounts  to  interference  by  the  United  States 
in  the  affairs  of  the  sovereign  State  of  Cuba  and  the 
right  of  the  Cuban  people  to  freely  determine  their 
own  political  and  economic  system.  It  is  unfortunate 
that  the  United  States  has  maintained  its  position 
despite the visible progress that Cuba has achieved in 
various areas, particularly education and health, areas 
in  which,  in  the  context  of  international  cooperation, 
Cuba has helped several countries in need around the 
world. Angola is grateful for and continues to benefit 
from that valuable assistance, especially in the areas of 
education and health. A very recent example of Cuba’s 
assistance in health care is its valuable contribution to 
the global effort to combat the Ebola epidemic affecting 
the  region  of  West  Africa,  by  sending  a  number  of 
health professionals who have been doing a remarkable 
job with positive results.
The Republic of Angola recognizes and once again 
encourages the Secretary-General’s efforts to put an end 
to the economic, trade and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States on Cuba for more than 50 years. In 
that connection, we call on the international community 
to  continue  its  efforts  to  promote  a  results-oriented 
and  transparent  dialogue  between  the  two  countries, 
with  a  view  to  achieving  a  definitive  solution  to  the 
problem  and  normalization  of  the  relations  between 
them, which is long overdue. Cuba and its people and 
Government  can  no  longer  continue  to  be  prevented 
from participating fully in the development growth that 
is taking place in the economy of the Latin American 
and  Caribbean  region,  where  the  United  States  is  the 
key player and should thus engage fully and freely with 
all the countries south of its border.
In  calling  for  an  end  to  this  embargo  we  join  the 
great  majority  of  Member  States,  as  well  as  many 
prestigious  academic 
institutions  and  American 
citizens, who are opposed to the embargo and urge for 
a change in the current United States policy, in order 
to create an involvement that is conducive to peaceful 
coexistence,  constructive  bilateral  talks  and  peace  in 
the world.
Mr.  Zamora  Rivas  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  We  welcome  the  presence  in  the  Assembly 
today  of  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
El  Salvador  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Bolivia on behalf of the 
6/8 
14-59369
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.31
Group of 77 and China, and Costa Rica on behalf of the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(see A/69/PV.30).
I would like to make the following statement in the 
wake of El Salvador’s vote tiday in favour of resolution 
69/5,  on 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.
the  necessity  of  ending 
El Salvador has always respected the principles and 
purposes enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, 
international law and multilateralism. We reaffirm our 
rejection of the unilateral application of economic and 
commercial sanctions against another State that affect 
the free development of international trade. 
Today the members of the international community 
are both witnesses to and instigators of great change. 
We  are  living  at  a  crucial  time  in  the  evolution  of  a 
new generation of global opportunities and challenges, 
which  demands  that  we  define  a  new  paradigm  for 
development,  cooperation  and  solidarity  among  the 
peoples of the world that we hope will be embodied in 
the post-2015 development agenda. In that context, as 
President Sánchez Cerén of the Republic of El Salvador 
said in his address at the general debate in September,
“In our efforts in pursuit of peace and inclusive 
and  equitable  development,  there  is  no  place  for 
contempt for fundamental principles and freedoms. 
I  refer  here  to  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
blockade  against  our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba, 
which, in spite of that unilateral action against its 
people,  has  overcome  the  obstacles  and  adversity 
imposed on it”. (A/69/PV.12, p. 18)
The  blockade  ignores  the  principles  framed  in 
the Charter of the United Nations and in international 
treaties and the standards and customs of international 
law.  It  contravenes  international  trade  and  navigation 
regulations and the basic rules of peaceful coexistence 
and cooperation among nations. The embargo on Cuba 
is  not  only  a  unilateral  act  that  lacks  the  support  of 
the  international  community,  it  has  also  continued  in 
the  face  of  repeated  condemnation  on  the  part  of  the 
vast  majority  of  the  international  community,  as  this 
morning’s  vote  affirmed.  In  that  regard,  El  Salvador 
would like to emphasize the importance of compliance 
with  the  provisions  of  resolution  47/19,  adopted  on 
24  November  1992,  and  of  every  resolution  that  the 
General Assembly has adopted year after year between 
then  and  now  emphasizing  the  urgency  of  ending  the 
United States embargo on Cuba.
The  blockade  of  Cuba  has  had  a  concrete 
humanitarian  impact  by  limiting  access  to  medicines 
and  modern  medical  equipment  and  treatments,  as 
well  as  restricting  the  free  exchange  of  science  and 
knowledge  between  our  countries  and  the  right  of 
Americans  to  travel  freely  to  Cuba.  We  also  consider 
it  especially  harmful  and  unjust  that  the  Office  of 
Foreign Assets Control of the Treasury Department of 
the United States monitors any international financial 
transaction involving Cuba, including with multilateral 
cooperative  agencies,  and  thereby  generating  fines 
on  banks  and  other  countries  attempting  to  establish 
economic,  commercial,  financial  or  scientific  and 
technical relations with Cuba.
As  a  country  committed  to  working  for  peaceful 
coexistence among nations, El Salvador fully supports 
and  has  voted  in  favor  of  today’s  resolution.  In 
conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the  justice  of 
the Cuban cause in demanding an end to the embargo 
imposed by the United States and to reiterate the deep 
sympathy and solidarity of the people and Government 
of  El  Salvador  with  the  people  and  Government  of 
Cuba’s cause. 
I  would  therefore  like  to  end  by  expressing  three 
hopes of our people and Government. The first is that 
the Government of the United States will unilaterally 
lift the blockade, making a reality of the legal principle 
that an act should be reversed in the same way that it was 
originally carried out, and also respecting the universal 
call  that  it  should  do  so.  Secondly,  we  hope  that  any 
differences  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  can 
be resolved through dialogue and, thirdly, that after so 
many  years  the  people  of  the  four  Americas  –  North, 
South, Caribbean and Central – can sit around the same 
table while excluding no one.
Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
On behalf of the Republic of Ecuador, I am honoured 
to welcome the presence here of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  our  sister 
Republic of Cuba, and laud the overwhelming outcome 
achieved  today  in  favour  of  resolution  69/5,  which 
condemns the blockade imposed by the United States 
of  America  against  Cuba.  The  blockade  not  only 
contravenes  the  fundamental  norms  and  principles 
of  international  law;  it  is  also  unjust,  immoral  and  a 
form of aggression, a blatant example of the fact that 
14-59369
7/8
A/69/PV.31 
28/10/2014
“democracy”,  this  “democracy”,  is  an  empty  word 
whose  very  meaning  is  distorted,  a  virtual  game  that 
breaks its own rules.
It is perverse to continue to allow anyone to play 
with  human  lives  and  for  the  well-being  of  an  entire 
people to be subject to the whim of a country that does 
not  want  to  accept  the  reality  of  a  world  in  which  no 
State has a privileged voice and where no country can 
take unilateral action that runs counter to international 
norms  and  principles.  For  that  reason,  Ecuador  has 
always  voted  and  always  will  vote  in  favour  of  this 
resolution.
We would like also to note that the Cuban consulate 
in Washington, D.C., has been deprived of all financial 
services. Such blindness can do unspeakable harm. In 
contrast,  Cuba  gives  everything  it  has,  not  whatever 
it  has  left  over.  I,  as  an  Ecuadorian,  have  seen  this. 
My  country’s  successful  programme  for  people  with 
disabilities is due partly to Cuba. As a citizen of this 
planet, I have also witnessed Cuba’s quick, humane and 
outstanding response to the Ebola crisis.
For  the  twenty-third  time,  the  vast  majority  of 
Member  States  have  requested  that  an  end  be  put  to 
this  unjust  and  hostile  unilateral  embargo,  which  has 
no other solution than the United States abandoning its 
imperial intolerance. How much longer will we have to 
wait for this request to be granted, which will benefit 
international  peace  and  security?  It  is  high  time  that 
we confronted the shameful double standard evidenced 
here year after year when we speak of the rule of law, 
with some countries invoking their principles when it 
suits  them  and  denying  them  when  it  runs  counter  to 
their own interests.
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  I  am  taking  the  floor  to 
explain  my  delegation’s  position  on  resolution  69/5, 
which was adopted earlier today by an overwhelming 
majority of Member States. 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Bolivia  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  the  representative 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  
(see A/69/PV.30).
Since  the  resolution  was  first  introduced,  at  the 
forty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
1992, my delegation has taken the principled position 
of  joining  the  international  community  every  year  in 
calling  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  causes  huge 
economic losses and hardship to the Cuban people.
As a country having experienced similar unilateral 
sanctions  for  decades,  Myanmar  fully  understands 
from its own experience the degree of suffering caused 
by  the  sanctions,  which  directly  affect  the  innocent 
people of the country.
As  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
Myanmar  has  steadfastly  adhered  to  the  principled 
position  of  the  Movement  in  opposing  the  use  of 
unilateral  trade  and  economic  sanctions.  Therefore, 
Myanmar  strongly  supports 
final  document 
adopted  at  the  seventeenth  Ministerial  Conference  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in  Algeria  earlier 
this  year,  which  calls  for  an  end  to  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. The 
embargo is also contrary to the United Nations Charter 
as  well  as  to  international  law  and  the  principle  of 
good-neighbourliness.
the 
In line with previous United Nations resolutions on 
this item, we firmly believe that constructive dialogue 
is necessary to promote confidence and understanding. 
We also believe that the embargo and coercive measures 
should  be  replaced  by  dialogue  and  cooperation.  For 
those reasons, Myanmar has once again voted in favour 
of the resolution on the matter.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 40?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.55 p.m.
8/8 
14-59369
