United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
20th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 30 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Winston  Lackin,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Suriname.
Mr.  Lackin  (Suriname):  My  statement  today  is 
made  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Suriname, His Excellency Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse.
We  want  you,  Mr.  President,  to  be  assured  of 
our  support  in  these  turbulent  times  of  international 
politics.  Your  task  will  not  be  easy.  We  pay  tribute 
to  your  predecessor,  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  for  his 
excellent leadership during the sixty-eighth session of 
the General Assembly.
We also want to express our support to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  his  endeavour  to  steer  the 
United  Nations  vessel  through  the  rough  waters 
of  shifting  economic  forces  and  rapidly  changing 
political  arenas,  in  an  environment  where  violence 
and  intolerance,  whatever  the  root  causes,  seem  to 
prevail. Although interdependence, self-determination 
and non-interference should be the guiding principles 
of  the  international  community,  we  are  faced  with 
an  incredible  desire  for  domination  in  the  name  of 
undefined, so-called national interests.
We have examined some of the arguments used to 
invade Grenada and compared those to the arguments 
used  to  justify  the  military  involvement  in  Ukraine. 
What  striking  similarity!  We  have  tried  hard  to 
understand the value of a referendum in the case of the 
Malvinas and the value given to the referendum held in 
Crimea.
States  with  media,  military  and  economic 
vulnerabilities such as ours cannot but feel extremely 
uncomfortable  with  the  custom-made  slogans,  devoid 
of  any  genuine  moral  value,  that  are  imposed  on  our 
minds as precooked recipes.
We express our sincere wish that the United Nations 
should develop the muscles needed to restructure and 
democratize  itself  and  move  away  from  restrictive 
veto  powers  towards  inclusive  legal  institutions  that 
can  effectively  apply  and  monitor  adherence  to  the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. We see 
that  as  the  only  way  forward  to  achieve  the  ultimate 
goal of sustainable development, even for the smallest 
members  of  the  international  community.  The  real 
proof of civilization is total respect for the seemingly 
insignificant members of any social entity. Let us, then, 
become truly civilized.
In  sharp  contradiction  to  the  turbulence  and 
challenges mentioned, we want to draw the attention of 
this body to the Latin America and Caribbean region, 
which  is,  relatively  speaking,  a  unique  area  of  peace 
and tranquillity. It is important to answer the question: 
how is that region showing us the way forward? From a 
military point of view, it is an area of the world that is 
nuclear-free. The Treaty of Tlatelolco has proved to be 
an effective instrument to monitor and maintain Latin 
America and the Caribbean free from nuclear threat.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55200 (E)
*1455200*
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
Furthermore,  it  is  important  to  note  that,  at  the 
political level, interdependence has become the driving 
force  of  both  multilateral  and  bilateral  relations. 
Small  and  large  States  alike  interact  on  the  basis  of 
established  treaties  and  principles  of  mutual  respect, 
mutual concern and mutual benefit. The Union of South 
American Nations, the Community of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  and  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  in  particular  have  played  an  important 
role so far in furthering that cause.
The  third,  and  certainly  the  most  important, 
factor  that  ensures  durable  peace  in  our  region  is  the 
implementation  of  people-oriented  socioeconomic 
policies. We have seen such programmes developed in 
Brazil, Bolivia, Chile and my own country, Suriname, 
to  mention  a  few.  The  emphasis  on  policies  and 
programmes related to health care, education, youth and 
sports is rapidly changing the image of Latin America 
and the Caribbean. We invite the world community to 
take note of those positive realities in our functioning 
democracies, as they translate into regional integration 
processes with nothing less than a bright future.
Looking  at  the  positive  picture  at  the  national 
level,  we  must  also  address  the  challenges  of  dealing 
with  all  forms  of  transnational  organized  crime  in 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region.  Suriname 
fully  supports  all  initiatives  deployed  to  face  those 
challenges.
Having  said  that,  we  must  assess  two  areas  of 
concern  that  our  nation  faces  today.  Economically 
speaking,  the  latest  International  Monetary  Fund 
report indicates that Suriname has reached an average 
per capita income of approximately $10,000. Our gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  is  primarily  based  on  the 
mining  sector,  where  gold  mining  and  the  production 
of crude oil and derivatives represent 33 per cent of our 
national  output.  That  sector  is  responsible  for  90  per 
cent of our total export revenue.
We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  nature  of  that 
sector is extractive and, as such, is subject to depletion. 
In  order  to  ensure  the  sustainability  of  the  economy, 
the Government has developed a policy to ensure that 
the revenue from the non-renewable sectors is invested 
in developing human capital to ensure the full fruition 
of the capacities of the Surinamese people in their own 
interest and the interest of the entire nation.
To  ensure 
that  policy  will  materialize, 
President Bouterse announced, at the outset of his term, 
that 
a social contract that has been given substance in the 
following programme: a legal framework guaranteeing 
a  minimum  wage,  health-care  coverage  for  every 
citizen and pensions for the elderly.
In the past four years, Suriname has implemented 
new  programmes  to  promote  advanced  education  at 
all  levels,  including  after-school  care  programmes 
for  primary  and  secondary  students  and  scholarship 
programmes  for  higher  education.  Furthermore,  legal 
instruments are being prepared as part of a full safety 
net to prevent dropouts.
In  the  same  vein,  various  programmes  have  been 
developed in close cooperation with other CARICOM 
States  to  combat  the  incidence  of  non-communicable 
diseases.  Our  ultimate  goal  is  for  those  initiatives  to 
become  part  and  parcel  of  future  programmes  of  the 
Pan  American  Health  Organization  and  the  World 
Health Organization.
With  regard  to  the  imminent  threat  of  the  spread 
of  the  Ebola  virus,  the  Government  has  entered  into 
close  consultations  with  neighbouring  countries,  the 
subregion  and  the  global  community  to  design  and 
implement  programmes  to  coordinate  and  cooperate 
effectively  so  as  to  prevent  the  spread  of  the  deadly 
virus.
As  a  matter  of  course,  we  can  sustain  those 
initiatives  only  within  appropriate  fiscal  discipline. 
We  are  forced  to  strike  the  right  balance  between 
economic growth, socioeconomic concerns and respect 
for our natural environment. In doing so, Suriname has 
been  classified  as  an  upper-middle-income  country 
with an improved ranking in the 2013 United Nations 
Development Programme Human Development Report.
However,  that  classification  limits  our  access  to 
concessional financing, which hampers our aspirations 
and  endeavours  to  sustain  the  achievements  I  have 
mentioned.  Honestly  speaking,  we  are  experiencing 
that  decision  as  a  punishment  for  doing  well.  A 
classification solely based on statistics, and not on our 
socioeconomic reality, will never serve the objective of 
sustainable development based on human development. 
We  call  upon  the  multilateral  and  bilateral  funding 
institutions to adapt their policies to that approach.
There is another area of prime interest to which we 
want  to  draw  attention.  Suriname’s  territory  is  more 
than  90  per  cent  covered  with  forest,  which  annually 
absorbs  8.8  million  tons  of  carbon,  while  our  annual 
emissions  are  7  million  tons  of  carbon.  Suriname 
2/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
to 
thus  absorbs  1.8  million  tons  of  carbon  more  than  it 
emits  on  a  yearly  basis.  While  many  countries  work 
towards  becoming  carbon-neutral,  Suriname  already 
qualifies as a carbon-negative country. With an annual 
deforestation rate of 0.02 per cent and having dedicated 
13 per cent of the national territory to preserving and 
protecting vulnerable ecosystems, we are generating a 
national and global asset.
In  stark  contrast 
those  positive  realities, 
Suriname has, paradoxically, become one of the most 
vulnerable countries in the world as a result of climate 
change.  At  the  recently  held  2014  Climate  Summit, 
Suriname  indicated  that  sea-level  rise  will,  inter  alia, 
severely  damage  or  destroy  our  coastal  ecosystems, 
including  most  of  our  arable  land;  damage  or  destroy 
over  40  per  cent  of  our  GDP;  damage  or  destroy  the 
homes of over 80 per cent of our population; damage 
or  destroy  our  world  heritage-designated  capital;  and 
endanger  the  way  of  life  of  most  of  the  people,  who 
represent our cultural heritage and live along the coastal 
and river shores. Changes in rainfall patterns and rising 
temperatures  are  already  leading  to  increased  health 
risks  and  associated  costs,  decreased  hydropower 
production and reduced access to river pathways.
The  serious  absence  of  international  commitment 
to supporting us so that we can take the proper measures 
to  avoid  the  impending  disasters  is  disturbing,  and 
we  have  therefore  been  obliged  to  join  with  similar, 
vulnerable countries with strong environmentally active 
frameworks  and  a  history  of  respect  for  ecosystems. 
We call on the rest of the world both to become more 
proactive  in  support  of  the  measures  that  we  are 
compelled to take, and to ensure that the relevant issues 
have a place on the international agenda.
Suriname  would  like  to  emphasize  the  need  for  a 
fundamental restructuring of the United Nations, with 
the aim of making our Organization better equipped to 
deal  effectively  with  the  international  issues  at  hand. 
We would like once again to point to the experience of 
Latin America and the Caribbean as a shining example 
of how durable peace can be achieved. In that context, 
the economic blockade of the Cuban people should be 
considered to be a regional anomaly that must end now.
The  role  of  women  in  achieving  sustainable 
development,  at  the  level  of  both  civil  society  and 
political leadership, has proved an important factor in 
creating an atmosphere of tolerance in which we choose 
to use dialogue rather than resort to violence. We must 
continue to encourage our women — who make up more 
than half of the world’s population — to persist in their 
struggle  for  participation  and  inclusion  and  to  share 
the burden of responsibility for peace and sustainable 
development.
In  conclusion,  Suriname  is  ready  and  willing 
to  play  its  humble  part  in  helping  to  find  workable 
solutions to the global issues at hand. We reiterate our 
commitment  to  all  human  rights  and  to  a  policy  of 
interacting responsibly with the natural environment in 
our quest for sustained economic growth, as well as our 
commitment to peace through dialogue.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Osman  Mohammed  Saleh,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  At  the  outset,  Mr.  President, 
I would like to warmly congratulate you, my brother, 
on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  with  its  theme  of 
“Delivering on and implementing a transformative post-
2015  development  agenda”,  which  is  both  timely  and 
appropriate. I would also like to take this opportunity 
to  express  my  deep  appreciation  to  your  predecessor, 
Ambassador John Ashe, for a job well done.
Next year, 2015, marks the seventieth anniversary of 
the birth of the United Nations. The world has changed 
almost  beyond  recognition  since  1945.  Originally 
founded by 50 Members, the United Nations has seen 
three times that many nations join it in the intervening 
years. The demographic, economic, political and cultural 
realities of its Member States bear little resemblance to 
those  of  the  past.  The  challenges  of  the  time  and  the 
demands of the age are vastly different from those of 
the  period  following  the  Second  World  War,  or  even 
the  past  few  decades.  Change,  rapid  transformative 
change,  is  the  order  of  the  day.  And  yet  the  United 
Nations,  the  Organization  that  ostensibly  represents 
the entire community of nations and the peoples of the 
world, remains stuck in the past. It is still thoroughly 
dominated by a few countries and has marginalized the 
overwhelming majority. Its institutions and structures 
are an anachronism in the modern world.
More  crucially,  the  United  Nations  has  fallen 
far  short  of  playing  the  primary  role  in  pursuing  the 
fundamental  objectives  for  which  it  was  established. 
The maintenance of global peace and security was and 
remains one of its cardinal goals, and yet conflicts and 
wars — even simultaneous and multiple wars — have 
become a constant feature of our lives. Many of them 
14-55200
3/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
are waged in total disregard for the United Nations and 
its  mandate.  In  Africa  —  from  the  East  to  the  West 
and  in  the  North —  in  the  Middle  East  and  on  every 
other continent, extremism, terrorism and all forms of 
bigotry  and  intolerance  are  spreading.  The  record  on 
other  key  principles  and  aspirations  is  also  far  from 
satisfactory,  whether  the  issue  is  ending  poverty, 
ensuring  sustainable  development,  advancing  human 
rights,  preventing  epidemics,  respecting  sovereignty 
and non-interference in the affairs of others, ensuring 
justice  and  equality  or  protecting  the  environment. 
The  world  is  unquestionably  facing  a  very  grave 
and  dangerous  situation.  To  paraphrase  the  words 
of  the  Secretary-General,  this  is  a  terrible  time  “for 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations” (A/69/PV.6, p. 1).
In  order  to  restore  the  relevance  and  credibility 
of  the  United  Nations  —  to  turn  it  into  a  truly 
representative  institution  of  all  nations  and  peoples, 
where  all  nations,  no  matter  how  big  or  small,  have 
respect  for  its  Charter  and  for  international  law,  and 
where  all  nations  contribute,  each  according  to  its 
capabilities,  to  peace  and  security  and  to  the  welfare 
of  people  and  the  planet  —  it  is  imperative  that  we 
fundamentally restructure, democratize and rebuild the 
United Nations. The crucial and pressing need for that 
has been clear for several decades now, starting in the 
height of the Cold War and continuing through the past 
25 years, during which time the world has lived through 
an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  impose  a  unipolar  world. 
Consequently, United Nations reform has formally been 
on the agenda for close to two decades. No country has 
openly  disputed  the  importance  of  restructuring  the 
United  Nations,  and  many  workable  proposals  have 
been presented and thoroughly discussed. Yet we are no 
nearer to change, because of the stubborn and cynical 
opposition of the dominant Powers.
Given  the  determination  of  those  Powers  to 
maintain  their  control  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
unrepresentative  and  undemocratic  character, 
the 
chances  of  genuine  change  in  the  next  few  years  are 
indeed slender. It is therefore vital that all nations and 
peoples  —  as  well  as  the  political  and  social  forces 
that  stand  for  peace,  independence,  international  law, 
justice,  equity  and  sustainable  development  —  forge 
a  common  front.  They  must  consolidate  partnerships 
and  coordinate  their  efforts  on  the  basis  of  a  broad 
common  strategy  to  stem  the  threats  we  face  and  to 
build  a  better  and  more  equitable  world,  while  at  the 
same  time  containing  without  let-up  the  campaign  to 
restructure  the  United  Nations,  eradicate  poverty, 
prevent conflicts, address global warming and fight all 
forms of terrorism and extremism.
Eritrea’s perspective on the need for an overhaul of 
the United Nations system is informed not only by the 
shared experience of the majority of nations, but also 
by  its  own  history.  The  international  system  and  the 
dominant Powers have dealt the Eritrean people a raw 
deal. First, they were denied the right to decolonization 
and  independence  to  satisfy  what  the  then  United 
States  Secretary  of  State  John  Foster  Dulles  in  1952 
stated  were  in  “the  strategic  interests  of  the  United 
States in the Red Sea basin”. When the Eritrean people 
embarked  on  a  30-year  armed  struggle  for  national 
liberation and independence in order to advance their 
geopolitical  interests  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the 
Red  Sea  region,  the  super-Powers  supplied  arms  and 
advisers  to  their  client  States  to  crush  Eritrea’s  right 
to self-determination, and the United Nations ignored 
their  plight.  Even  after  achieving  independence  at  a 
tremendous  human  and  material  cost  and  joining  the 
community  of  nations,  the  Eritrean  people  are  still 
victimized. The United Nations once again has failed to 
uphold  an  internationally  endorsed,  final  and  binding 
arbitration of the border decision. In fact, to add insult 
to  injury,  it  has  imposed  unjust  sanctions  on  their 
country.
That travesty of justice has caused harm not only 
to  Eritrea  but  to  the  entire  Horn  of  Africa,  which  is 
now mired in endemic conflicts and instability. Once 
again  and  from  this  rostrum,  Eritrea  calls  on  the 
United Nations and the Security Council to redress that 
injustice by taking concrete measures to end the illegal 
occupation of sovereign Eritrean territory. The unjust 
and  unfair  sanctions,  for  which  everyone  now  agrees 
that there was and continues to be no justification, must 
also  unconditionally  and  immediately  be  lifted.  Such 
long-overdue  measures  would  contribute  positively  to 
the tireless efforts of the Eritrean people to build their 
nation, maintain peace, stability and harmony, improve 
their  livelihood,  lay  the  foundations  of  a  strong, 
equitable  national  economy,  create  opportunities 
for  youth  and  women,  and  advance  regional  and 
international engagement and cooperation.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Yousef  Bin  Al-Alawi  Bin  Abdulla, 
Minister  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Sultanate 
of Oman.
4/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Mr.  Abdulla  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  our 
pleasure,  Mr.  President,  to  congratulate  you  and  your 
friendly  country,  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  on  your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  are  confident  that  your 
vast  experience  in  diplomacy  will  steer  the  work  of 
this session to a successful outcome. I would also like 
to  assure  you  of  the  cooperation  of  the  delegation  of 
the  Sultanate  of  Oman  in  working  with  you  towards 
achieving  the  cherished  goals  and  objectives  of  the 
current session, at the forefront of which is enhancing 
international peace and security.
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, 
Mr. John William Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda, for the 
excellent manner in which he conducted the work of the 
previous  session.  We  would  also  like  to  reiterate  our 
confidence in Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
tireless efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations 
and improve its working methods so that it can respond 
in the best possible way to the hopes and aspirations of 
Member States.
The  Middle  East  is  going  through  a  difficult 
phase  as  it  grapples  with  several  crises  due  to  a  lack 
of international consensus. We believe that the overall 
situation in the Middle East requires a unified position 
to solve the crises, the most immediate of which is the 
Palestinian question, which no doubt lies at the core of 
regional conflicts. We note that while the Palestinians 
have  consistently  shown  willingness  to  enter  into 
a  genuine  partnership  in  peace  with  Israel,  based  on 
the concept of two States living side by side in peace, 
Israel  has  not  demonstrated  responsible  cooperation 
as  it  continues  to  resort  to  military  force  as  a  tool  to 
maintain its security.
Security and stability cannot be achieved through 
the use of excessive force and the insistence on inflicting 
heavy loss of life, injuries and destruction on the largest 
possible scale. The path to achieving the security and 
stability that underpins economic and social recovery 
can be realized only through the peaceful partnership 
of  the  Palestinians  and  Israelis.  We  now  believe  that 
there  is  a  chance  to  achieve  that  objective,  following 
the ceasefire agreement reached between the two sides, 
Palestinian and Israeli, in the Gaza Strip. We stress the 
importance of the two sides sticking to the agreement 
in words and in actions and avoiding violations under 
any justification or pretext. In that respect, we call upon 
Palestinians and Israelis alike to resume negotiations in 
order to reach a just and comprehensive settlement that 
would  provide  peace  and  security  for  Israel  and  that 
responds to the hopes and aspirations of the Palestinian 
people to regain their inalienable rights.
The  continuation  of  violence  in  the  brotherly 
Syrian Arab Republic and its serious implications for 
regional  and  international  peace  and  security  require 
us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  encourage  the  Syrian 
Government  and  the  National  Coalition  of  Syrian 
Revolutionary  and  Opposition  Forces  to  return  to  the 
negotiating  table,  based  on  the  Geneva  communiqué. 
The  two  parties  should  approach  negotiations  in  a 
positive manner by focusing on areas of consensus and 
avoiding  negative  aspects  and  positions  with  the  aim 
of  saving  the  Syrian  people  and  sparing  them  further 
suffering and tragedies.
While  we  applaud  the  role  of  humanitarian  relief 
organizations  and  agencies  in  helping  the  Syrian 
people  overcome  their  prolonged  ordeal,  we  also  call 
for  intensified  efforts  to  facilitate  access  by  relief 
agencies to all areas inside and outside Syria to provide 
the  necessary  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  affected 
people. In that respect, we look forward in confidence 
to the efforts of the United Nations Special Envoy for 
Syria, Mr. Staffan de Mistura, to encourage Syrian and 
international  stakeholders  to  reconvene  the  Geneva 
conference.  We  believe  that  the  current  situation  is 
more conducive than ever to this effort.
My country appreciates the efforts of the President 
of  Yemen,  Abd  Rabbuh  Mansour  Hadi,  to  achieve 
security and stability there. We welcome the agreement 
of  peace  and  partnership  signed  by  President  Hadi 
and  the  political  powers  in  Yemen,  and  we  call  upon 
all  political  partners,  particularly  Ansar  Allah,  to 
comply  with  its  provisions.  We  call  on  all  political 
entities  in  Yemen  to  renounce  violence  and  uphold 
the  outcome  of  the  National  Dialogue  Conference  as 
the  best  available  road  map  for  resolving  the  current 
crisis.  We  hope  that  the  Yemeni  presidency  will  take 
the  remaining  important  steps  in  the  Comprehensive 
National  Dialogue,  most  notably  the  referendum  on 
a  new  constitution  that  would  secure  the  rights  and 
interests of all Yemenis.
The  Sultanate  of  Oman  is  firm  in  its  principled 
position regarding the condemnation of terrorism in all 
its forms and manifestations, regardless of motives and 
justifications. In that context, we condemn the terrorist 
acts perpetrated by the so-called Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Levant (ISIL). We support the recommendations 
14-55200
5/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
of  the  Jeddah  and  Paris  conferences,  and  the  steps 
the  international  community  is  taking  to  extend  Iraqi 
authority over all ISIL-controlled areas. We emphasize 
the  importance  for  the  international  community  to 
stand united in freeing the Middle East from all forms 
of violence, extremism and terrorism. We also welcome 
Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) on the threats 
to  international  peace  and  security  posed  by  terrorist 
acts.
There are a number of ways to prevent violence and 
extremism.  These  include  the  consolidation  of  good 
governance and sustainable development, which would 
allow all sectors of society — especially young people, 
who  constitute  two  thirds  of  the  populations  of  Arab 
countries — to work, innovate and actively participate 
in the decisions affecting their daily life. On this basis, 
the Sultanate of Oman has established a complete and 
interlinked  system  encompassing  the  principles  of 
good  governance,  including  councils  and  institutions 
to  protect  society  and  young  people  and  ensure  their 
participation in the development process.
In  that  regard,  my  country  has  established  the 
Council  of  Oman,  composed  of  two  chambers,  the 
Shura  Consultative  Council  and  the  State  Council.  It 
has  also  created  municipal  councils,  whose  members 
are  popularly  elected,  to  oversee  local  issues  that 
affect  the  lives  of  the  people  in  the  economic,  social, 
educational and other fields, based on the principles of 
good governance and sustainable development.
The  Sultanate  of  Oman  has  also  come  a  long 
way in its national development. It has established an 
independent judiciary, which has become a key element 
of  the  development  and  modernization  process.  It 
has  also  established  the  Public  Prosecution  Office, 
which  stands  at  the  apex  of  the  independent  judicial 
system  in  the  Sultanate,  as  well  as  the  State  Audit 
Institution, whose role is to provide a secure and proper 
administration to ensure better management of public 
properties.
It has also redoubled its efforts to fight corruption 
and organized crime. In that respect, and in the context 
of its efforts to protect the country and its citizens, the 
Sultanate has acceded to the United Nations Convention 
against  Corruption,  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
the 
three  protocols  thereto.  This  system  of  institutions  is 
based  on  effective  public  participation  in  the  policies 
adopted and implemented by the Government in order 
to  enhance  good  governance  in  the  framework  of  a 
modern  civic  State,  based  on  institutions,  in  order  to 
achieve security, stability and sustainable development.
Regarding regional peace and security, my country 
supports  the  call  for  an  international  conference  to 
establish a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and 
weapons of mass destruction, in line with the resolution 
adopted at the 1995 Review and Extension Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons. My country calls upon States parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons, especially the depository States, to take the 
necessary  measures  to  achieve  this  goal  in  order  to 
spare  the  region  the  dangers  of  tension,  and  to  avoid 
confrontation.
In  closing,  we  would  like  emphasize  that  the 
Sultanate  of  Oman  has  come  a  long  way  towards 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in 
all  fields  and  within  the  specific  timelines  set  by  the 
United Nations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Vladimir  Makei,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Makei (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Humankind 
has  only  one  past,  but  many  options  for  the  future. 
History is such that we know only the consequences of 
those actions that have occurred, but not those that did 
not take place. What would our world look like today 
if,  a  century  ago,  that  memorable  shot  had  not  been 
fired  in  Sarajevo,  irrevocably  changing  the  course  of 
history? That shot set in motion a dynamic that has yet 
to be fully explained. For some key European countries 
the question of honour contained in that shot overrode 
both  common  sense  and  all  other  considerations. 
Millions  paid  with  their  lives  for  that  hypocritical 
honour.  Unfortunately,  the  tragedy  did  not  end  there, 
because  the  lessons  of  the  First  World  War  have  not 
been learned. As a consequence, other global carnage 
has claimed even more human lives. Thus, the shot in 
Sarajevo  marked  nothing  more  than  the  onset  of  the 
bloodiest period in the history of humankind.
For Belarus, this period was also the bloodiest in the 
history of its people. Located at the centre of Europe, in 
the very crucible of geopolitical interests, Belarus lost 
a third of its population during the Second World War. 
Even today, with 20 years of unprecedented successful 
and  stable  development,  we  have  not  recovered  from 
that immense loss, either physically, psychologically or 
emotionally.
6/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
This year, as the Republic of Belarus celebrates the 
seventieth anniversary of its liberation from the Fascist 
occupiers,  is  very  important  and  symbolic  for  the 
country.  Belarus  remembers  all  the  victims  who  paid 
with their lives for the freedom of the nation. Against 
this  background,  we  do  not  understand  and  strongly 
condemn  some  attempts  to  revise  the  outcome  of  the 
Second World War, downplaying the significance of the 
Great Victory or desecrating the memory of the fallen 
heroes.  The  world  community  must  not  allow  this  to 
happen. Indeed, the verdict of history is unequivocal; 
if  humankind  fails  to  learn  the  lessons  from  past 
tragedies, we are bound to repeat them in the future.
Let us ponder the the immediate and distant future, 
and indeed the present, as we mark the centenary of the 
outbreak of the First World War. What do current global 
trends tell us about the future? Undoubtedly, a multitude 
of  factors  determine  the  dynamics  of  contemporary 
global politics. We would identify the resistance of the 
majority of the world’s population to the imposition of 
external influences as one of the key factors. Indeed, 
much like in the past, the mighty of the world persist in 
believing that only their vision and their development 
model  stand  as  universal.  Therefore,  they  do  not  ask 
others  whether  they  like  or  dislike,  for  instance,  so-
called liberal democracy or the Washington consensus. 
Others are just forced to choose — either they accept 
our recipes or face the consequences, such as threats, 
sanctions and colour revolutions.
To  be  honest,  we —  that  is,  the  majority —  have 
grown  accustomed  to  alien  political  and  economic 
models being foisted upon us. We know what is going 
here. Someone wants our nations to feed transnational 
corporate  capital,  not  ourselves.  If  we  resist,  we  are 
punished.  The  pretext  is  always  contrived  —  alleged 
violations  of  human  rights  by  unruly  States.  Having 
been  subjected  to  external  attacks  for  many  years, 
countries  such  as  Belarus,  Cuba,  Iran  and  Venezuela 
feel such pressure especially acutely.
No  less  dangerous,  however,  is  another  factor. 
Similar attempts at imposition have been made recently 
against our identity. Indeed, some have been doing their 
best  to  impose  on  us  extraneous  cultural  preferences. 
For  example,  we  are  being  forced  to  renounce  the 
values  of  a  traditional  family  and  recognize  instead 
the diversity of that institution’s forms. In other words, 
they are striving to strip us of our own soul. That may 
be just another way to subdue those who dissent against 
capital by turning them into soulless slaves.
We  are  convinced  that  nothing  will  come  out  of 
it,  however.  The  reason  why  the  world  is  developing 
is because it is diverse. It is diversity itself that gives 
rise  to  healthy  competition  and  creativity,  which,  in 
turn,  drive  human  progress.  Do  we  need  uniformity 
and the ensuing trivial, soulless world? Of course we 
do not. In that regard, I appeal to those who persist in 
compelling others to do something that they find alien 
and unpleasant to give up their meaningless and futile 
policy. It is a road to nowhere. Their efforts only divide 
us. We have too many problems on our plate that require 
us to be united.
Today,  two  approaches  determine  international 
relations: the ability to effect change and the ability to 
stand in its way. Indeed, on the one hand, one or even 
several countries can easily paralyse the international 
community  in  its  activities;  on  the  other,  no  State  or 
group of States, however powerful, can alter the status 
quo  without  cooperating  with  the  rest  of  the  world. 
That is the paradox of globalization. We have become 
too  intertwined  and  too  interdependent.  Sadly,  the 
same holds true for global challenges — they too have 
become intertwined. It is impossible in today’s world to 
succeed in one area without making headway in others. 
There is, for instance, no simple solution to the threat 
of  human  trafficking  unless  we  effectively  tackle  the 
problem of poverty.
In  short,  strategies  and  policies  to  counter  all 
contemporary threats will be effective only if they are 
comprehensive in scope and focus. Let us be realistic 
and acknowledge that we will never solve the world’s 
problems all at once. Our collective goal must therefore 
be to reduce the extent of the threat they pose to society 
through our constant, unswerving attention.
It is precisely that attitude that must underpin our 
collective  effort  aimed  at  developing  the  post-2015 
United  Nations  development  agenda.  That  agenda 
should  be  both  comprehensive  and  realistic.  Its  main 
goal  should  be  to  make  globalization  more  even  and 
equitable than it has been up to now. When people in 
different countries take to the streets to protest against 
globalization,  they  are  not  calling  for  a  return  to 
parochial nationalism. Rather, they seek a strengthened 
globalization; they want to make it sustainable and they 
want it to result in a win-win situation.
Rising  inequality  in  the  world  is  the  biggest 
scourge.  We  face  a  paradox.  Having  recently  made 
significant  progress  in  strengthening  various  forms 
of  equality,  such  as  gender,  race  and  ethnic  equality, 
14-55200
7/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
we are seeing a stubborn rise in economic inequality. 
The international community must do whatever it takes 
to reverse that trend. Otherwise, we will not eradicate 
poverty.  Climate  change  is  another  major  challenge. 
It  is  inextricably  linked  to  such  issues  as  energy 
consumption,  food  security  and  water  resources.  We 
need  to  fully  reflect  this  complex  issue  in  the  future 
agenda.
in 
To  be  sure,  many  other  sectors  must  also  be 
represented 
this  comprehensive  document.  In 
that  context,  Belarus  attaches  particular  importance 
to  the  struggle  against  human  trafficking  and  the 
strengthening of the institution of the traditional family. 
In the light of the significant and recognized advances 
we have made at the national level, we propose for the 
consideration of our partners specific, effective, long-
term solutions to those vital issues at the global level.
We  need  to  be  thinking  right  now  about  how  we 
will implement the future agenda. We are certain that 
it  should  be  carried  out  through  the  tool  of  thematic 
global  partnerships.  In  this  day  and  age  of  multiple 
actors and multiple threats, only effective partnerships 
among States, international organizations, civil society 
and the private sector can deliver success in addressing 
global problems. The State must, of course, remain the 
central pillar among all other partners. Moreover, what 
is  needed  is  a  powerful  and  responsible  State.  Only 
such a State can achieve the long-term complex goals 
arising from the post-2015 United Nations development 
agenda.
A  powerful  State  often  frightens  people  on  the 
grounds that it may potentially abuse its power and harm 
the people. But let us take us a look at the other side of 
that coin. How do people feel when they do not have a 
powerful  State,  when  there  is  no  one  to  protect  them 
from resulting chaos, lawlessness and excess? I believe 
that  both  the  people  of  Belarus  and  their  neighbours 
can soberly assess arguments like these and draw the 
right conclusions. It is no wonder, then, that the world 
community selects stable and internally coherent States 
like  Belarus  to  serve  as  a  stage  for  addressing  acute 
international crises. The people of Belarus very much 
value  stability  and  successful  development.  We  are 
convinced that those factors make us a fully responsible 
stakeholder in the implementation of the future global 
development agenda.
The  United  Nations  should  play  a  special  role  in 
implementing  the  agenda.  It  is  this  universal  forum 
where Governments and their partners seek to implement 
it. We are convinced that the Organization will be able 
to cope with the task at hand if it successfully adjusts 
to the constantly emerging realities of life. The issue of 
the reform and revitalization of the United Nations is 
as acute as ever, not just in its traditional institutional 
dimension but also in conceptual terms.
As  far  as  the  latter  is  concerned,  we  believe  it 
necessary  to  give  a  serious  thought  to  two  problems. 
First, we need to look for practical solutions to numerous 
situations  where  certain  United  Nations  principles 
contradict  each  other.  Secondly,  there  is  the  problem 
of  negative  consequences  arising  from  purportedly 
benign international activities that are often undertaken 
under  a  United  Nations  mandate.  Far  too  often,  those 
activities  seek  to  advance  someone’s  political  goals, 
and  the  sponsors  care  little  for  the  consequences, 
including  chaos,  lawlessness  and  refugee  flows.  Iraqi 
Kurdistan, for instance, stands as a typical example of 
such  egotistical  policy  when  it  comes  to  the  issue  of 
refugees. We hope that the issue will be tackled ahead 
of the next United Nations global summit.
As we look to the future, we would all be well advised 
to take to heart the words of the great internationalist who 
lived  during  the  First  World  War,  American  President 
Woodrow Wilson, who said: “The interests of all nations 
are  our  own  also.  We  are  partners  with  the  rest.  What 
affects mankind is inevitably our affair.”
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
Mr.  Elrington 
(Belize):  On  behalf  of 
the 
Government and the people of Belize, it is with great 
pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, on your election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
register  Belize’s  thanks  to  your  predecessor,  our  own 
son of Caribbean soil, Mr. John Ashe, who performed 
his  duties  superbly  this  past  year  and  leaves  the 
Organization a legacy of lasting value.
for 
theme 
Mr.  President,  your  chosen 
this 
implementing 
year’s  session,  “Delivering  on  and 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”, 
is  ambitious,  hopeful  and  challenging,  and  Belize 
commends you on its selection. In the next 12 months, 
we  will  closely  monitor  and  contribute  to  its  crafting 
and  evolution.  The  stated  goal  of  the  new  agenda  is 
to  promote  sustained  and  inclusive  economic  growth, 
safeguard  the  future  of  our  planet  and  lead  to  the 
8/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
achievement  of  sustainable  development,  with  the 
eradication of poverty and hunger at its core.
Belize  views 
those  outcomes  as  more 
than 
aspirational.  For  us  they  are  imperatives.  Failure  to 
attain them will have dire consequences for our nation 
and people. They call for a transformative mobilization 
of our societies at the organic level. For that to happen, 
we must inspire and equip every actor in our societies 
with the requisite tools for tackling their responsibilities 
and partaking in the dividends of sustainable economic 
growth with equity and social justice.
The experiences we have had in seeking to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  however,  make 
us less than sanguine that we will have more success 
with  the  post-2015  development  agenda  than  we  have 
had  in  meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
We  are  mindful  that  the  support  that  some  developed 
Member States pledged to provide for our efforts with 
the Millennium Development Goals did not materialize 
in the amounts that were pledged and needed. On the 
whole, small countries like my own are disadvantaged 
by  their  lack  of  the  resources  and  human,  financial, 
scientific  and 
that  are 
prerequisites  for  succeeding  with  such  ambitious  and 
complex  initiatives.  Without  cooperation  and  support 
for  addressing  those  needs  from  the  developed  States 
Members of the United Nations and other multilateral 
agencies and, crucially, through reform of the policies 
of  the  international  financial  institutions,  Belize’s 
attainment  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  will 
be severely hampered.
technological  capacities 
the  Assembly’s  adoption  at 
Looking  to  the  future,  Belize  welcomes  and 
supports 
its  sixty-
eighth  session  of  resolution  68/304,  “Towards  the 
establishment  of  a  multilateral  legal  framework  for 
sovereign  debt  restructuring  processes”,  and  hopes 
it  will  result  in  a  robust  multilateral  treaty  that  will 
increase  the  efficiency,  stability  and  predictability 
of  the  international  financial  system.  In  the  wake  of 
the world’s financial meltdown in 2008 and the many 
disasters  that  have  occurred  around  the  world  over 
the past six years, necessitating large outlays of donor 
funding  to  assist  the  victims  of  such  disasters,  there 
are  unmistakable  and  troubling  indications  of  donor 
fatigue  and  a  tendency  towards  isolationism  and  self-
centredness in our global environment, a trend that does 
not augur well for financing the post-2015 development 
agenda.
Belize  nonetheless  remains  cautiously  optimistic. 
We are encouraged by the pilgrimage to this Hall over 
the past week of world leaders from nations large and 
small, friends and foes, allies and enemies. Each spoke 
from this very rostrum, and each in essence voluntarily 
reaffirmed the conviction of their respective countries 
that collective action under these United Nations offers 
our  world  the  only  true  hope  of  dealing  successfully 
with 
the  myriad  problems  currently  afflicting 
mankind,  whether  climate  change,  the  dreaded  Ebola 
virus,  religious  fanaticism,  or  persistent  poverty  and 
underdevelopment.
Of those maladies, Belize regards climate change as 
the most pernicious. While a global consensus seems to 
have finally been reached as to the causes, as well as the 
cure, for this apocalyptic phenomenon, the political will 
of the major emitters to take immediate, concerted and 
decisive action to combat it is still absent. Indeed, just as 
our international community was grievously dilatory in 
taking prompt collective action to prevent the genocidal 
massacre in Rwanda or the current spread of the Ebola 
virus in Africa, so the major emitters are being dilatory 
in  confronting  the  challenges  of  climate  change.  It  is 
evident that the threats that epidemics, pandemics and 
terrorism pose to our planet and humankind pale into 
insignificance when compared to the existential threats 
of  climate  change.  Furthermore,  it  is  equally  evident 
that  it  would  not  be  hyperbole  to  opine  that  time  is 
not on our side. Horrendous devastation — caused by 
extreme  droughts,  huge  conflagrations  in  our  forests, 
intense rainfall, floods, hurricanes, melting snowcaps, 
warming  seas  and  sea-level  rises,  and  an  awful  and 
frightening  increase  in  pestilence  and  diseases  —  is 
already occurring around the world.
Among  other  things,  my  own  country,  Belize,  is 
already  experiencing  coral  bleaching,  coastal  erosion 
and flooding, and it is forecast that next year the entire 
country will be visited by severe drought. The cost of 
mitigating the damage that is already being done to my 
country and of adapting to climate change is prohibitive. 
It is time for the large competing emitters to put aside 
their  mutual  suspicion  and  commit  to  capping  global 
warming at 1.5°C above preindustrial levels. While my 
country appreciates the pledges that have already been 
made to the Green Climate Fund, the amount of money 
needed  to  address  global  warming  is  exponentially 
larger. We do, however, remain optimistic that a robust 
climate  change  agreement  will  be  signed  in  Paris  in 
2015.
14-55200
9/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
The  development  and  security  needs  of  nations 
large and small in this era of globalization have hastened 
the  imperative  of  regional  integration.  Indeed,  today 
it  is  virtually  impossible  for  any  nation  to  function 
successfully on its own in any sphere of activity. In my 
own  country’s  case,  the  measure  of  development  and 
security we have enjoyed over the past 33 years, since 
gaining independence, must be credited in large part to 
the good relations we continue to have with our partners 
in the various regional integration groupings to which 
we  belong  and  the  excellent  cooperation  programmes 
we  share  with  our  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners, 
prominent  among  which  are  the  various  agencies  of 
the United Nations. However, even as we acknowledge 
with  gratitude  the  tremendous  contributions  of  our 
partners  to  our  nation’s  security  and  development, 
our  Government  is  ever  mindful  that  the  primary 
responsibility  for  it  rests  with  our  Government  and 
people.  In  that  conviction,  and  given  our  limited 
resources,  our  Government  has  had  to  prioritize  its 
areas of intervention. It has concentrated on providing 
our nation’s basic needs — security, housing, education, 
health care, employment and wealth generation.
Highest on that list of priorities is the importance 
of  safeguarding  our  country’s  security  and  territorial 
integrity.  Successive  Belizean  Governments  have 
invested  heavily  in  efforts  to  bring  about  a  peaceful 
resolution of the Guatemalan territorial claim over our 
country. Our Government is unalterably wedded to the 
peaceful resolution of this claim by adjudication at the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  We  have  enlisted  the 
support of all our international friends and partners for 
that decision, and the Guatemalan Government is also 
committed, through the Special Agreement of 2008, to 
the  resolution  of  the  claim  by  the  International  Court 
of Justice.
We  are  convinced  that  wars  and  rumours  of  war 
and any kind of international conflict will only bring 
grief and cause pain, hardship and devastation. That is 
why we keep working assiduously with our neighbours 
in the region to cement friendly, peaceful, collaborative 
and productive relations in order to achieve development 
for  our  people.  Belize  is  very  pleased  by  the  recent 
designation  by  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and Caribbean States of our entire region as a zone of 
peace. We also welcome your own call, Mr. President, 
for  the  intensification  of  efforts  towards  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
Domestically,  Belize  has  enjoyed  uninterrupted 
peace  and  harmony  for  the  past  33  years.  Our 
Government  acts  with  alacrity  and  sensitivity  to 
defuse  any  situation  that  has  the  potential  for  civil 
strife and disorder, and we invest substantially in our 
security  forces,  in  terms  of  both  capacity-building 
and  equipment  and  transportation.  In  our  quest  for 
wealth  generation,  job  creation  and  the  attainment  of 
sustainable  development,  Belize  is  pursuing,  inter 
alia,  the  prescriptions  articulated  in  our  Horizon 
2030  national  development  plan.  In  that  regard,  our 
Government is working in close concert with economic 
development experts from the International Monetary 
Fund, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development 
Bank and other institutions.
Among  the  initiatives  we  are  pursuing  is  a 
comprehensive  programme  of  infrastructure  works 
throughout our country, which includes the upgrading 
and expanding of major highways; the paving of streets 
in  cities  and  towns;  the  installation  of  new  drains  in 
flood-prone areas; and the construction and upgrading 
of  sporting  stadiums  and  recreational  community 
buildings. Those programmes are being executed at a 
total cost of $100 million.
Thanks  to  the  collaboration  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  and  the  tremendous  support 
we  receive  through  the  Petrocaribe  initiative,  our 
Government  has  been  able  to  invest  in  infrastructure 
and social programmes to the benefit of all our citizens. 
Our  Government  is  cognizant  of  the  importance  of 
good  infrastructure  to  our  economic  development. 
Belize is a major exporter of primary products. All our 
agri-products  are  transported  by  road  from  the  farms 
to  the  factories  and  then  to  the  sea  ports  for  export. 
The  aquaculture  products  and  petroleum  products  we 
produce are also transported by road to our seaports. All 
our archaeological sites and many of our tourist resorts 
are  also  only  accessible  by  road.  It  is  the  expectation 
of our Government that, with the enhancement of our 
network of streets and roads, our country will become 
more attractive to both residents and foreigners, be they 
tourists or investors, and that this will translate into a 
rapid expansion in productivity, economic growth and 
wealth generation.
With  a  view  to  ensuring  that  as  many  Belizean 
workers  as  possible  obtain  employment 
the 
infrastructure works being carried out, the Government 
has  requested  all  contractors  who  successfully  bid 
for  the  works  to  utilize  manual  labour  wherever  it  is 
in 
10/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
feasible to do so. The works are providing employment 
for many Belizean youth, both male and female.
Ms.  Rambally  (Saint  Lucia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
As  a  further  initiative  to  stimulate  economic 
development,  our  Government  inaugurated  the  very 
first National Bank of Belize one year ago. The Bank 
started  out  modestly.  It  commenced  operations  by 
providing loans primarily to finance the acquisition of 
homes for middle-class Belizeans. Though the Bank is 
limited  in  its  offerings,  its  establishment  has  resulted 
in an immediate and dramatic reduction of the interest 
rates being charged by commercial banks in the country 
on  similar  loans.  That  is  a  welcome  development  and 
a  goal  that  our  Government  had  tried  for  many  years 
to  achieve  without  success.  The  new  Bank  is  rapidly 
building  up  its  customer  base  and  has  now  started  to 
accept  deposits.  The  prospect  for  young  employed 
Belizeans  to  own  their  own  homes  at  affordable 
mortgages  is  now  greatly  increased.  Very  many 
Belizeans are already landed property owners, thanks 
to an ongoing programme by successive Governments 
to make land available to them at minimal costs.
Our  Government  is  also  aggressively  promoting 
investment.  We  have  successfully 
foreign  direct 
attracted 
extraction, 
agribusiness,  renewable  energy,  tourism  and  business 
processes outsourcing.
investment 
in 
petroleum 
On  our  Independence  Day,  21  September  1981, 
Belize  inherited  an  educational  system  that  was 
designed to educate citizens for the needs of a remote 
colonial  outpost  in  the  industrial  age,  the  primary 
economic  activity  of  which  was  the  export  of  timber 
and  sugar.  We  have  since  been  making  strenuous 
efforts  to  transform  that  system  into  one  capable  of 
satisfying  the  needs  of  an  independent  nation  in  this, 
the twenty-first century and the information age. That 
is proving to be a task fraught with great difficulty. It 
is also an exceedingly expensive one. Our Government 
currently spends 26 per cent of our national budget on 
the education sector. However, that is not nearly enough 
to  cover  the  cost  of  the  training  and  education  needs 
of our young nation. We appreciate, however, that the 
quality of our workforce will be a great determinant in 
our future development, and that we must therefore do 
all in our power to make our workforce the very best it 
can be regardless of the cost and without heeding the 
sacrifices we will undoubtedly have to make.
To  that  end,  our  Government  is  engaged  in  a 
number of initiatives aimed at training and educating 
our  population.  Among  those  is  a  comprehensive 
teacher  training  and  certification  programme.  We  are 
resolved  to  have  only  teachers  trained  in  pedagogy 
and in the various subject areas that they are expected 
to  teach  in  our  classrooms.  Simultaneously,  we  are 
assiduously expanding our education coverage from the 
pre-primary to the tertiary levels. Indeed, more young 
people today than at any other time in the history of our 
nation can afford to obtain an education and can find 
space in an educational institution near their homes. We 
are also placing increasing emphasis on vocational and 
technical education and training and on the teaching of 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We 
are in the planning stage for a new institute of science 
and technology, and we are expanding the presence of 
centres for employment training across the country.
Because we possess only two young universities, we 
make strenuous efforts to gain access to universities and 
other advanced educational institutions abroad for those 
of our students who successfully attain the matriculation 
requirements  for  entry  into  those  institutions.  We 
have  been  very  successful  in  that  initiative.  The  vast 
majority  of  our  students  attend  those  universities  on 
scholarships, thanks to the generosity of our cooperation 
partners.  Every  Belizean  student,  male  and  female, 
who  attains  the  requisite  matriculation  requirement 
has an equal opportunity to win a scholarship. Current 
data  indicate  that  our  female  students  are  much  more 
successful  at  winning  scholarships  than  their  male 
counterparts. Our initiatives in the education sector are 
contributing greatly to the increase in the competence 
of  our  workforce  at  every  level,  thereby  enabling  it 
to produce goods and services that are competitive in 
the world markets. In order to continue our efforts in 
that regard, we will need the continued support of the 
United Nations and its formidable network.
Belize  currently  spends  over  13  per  cent  of  the 
national budget on the health sector. We seek to develop 
and maintain a healthy and productive population. To 
that  end,  our  Government  is  expanding  school  food 
programmes  countrywide  and  programmes  that  allow 
parents of low-income families to purchase food items 
at concessionary rates. We know that regular, balanced 
meals are vital to the health of our population and that 
it is much less expensive to keep our population healthy 
than it is to cure it when it is ill.
14-55200
11/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
We continue to strengthen our primary health-care 
network.  We  continuously  upgrade  facilities  in  our 
hospital and clinics with modern diagnostic equipment. 
Our  flagship  public  hospital  is  now  benefiting  from 
a  significant  technological  upgrade.  We  also  recently 
inaugurated a brand-new neonatal wing at that hospital. 
For  the  first  time  in  our  country’s  history,  a  state-of-
the-art facility to cater exclusively to the health needs 
of  our  physically  challenged  children  has  been  built. 
This facility is the brainchild of the wife of our Prime 
Minister, who serves as a Special Envoy for Women and 
Children in Belize. She spearheaded both the raising of 
the finances for its construction and the supervision of 
its construction.
We  take  this  opportunity  also  to  applaud  the 
efforts of our Special Envoy who, just a few days ago, 
hosted  one  of  the  largest  gatherings  of  First  Ladies 
and Spouses of Heads of State and Government on the 
subject of the empowerment of women and girls, here at 
the United Nations. That special event was a universal 
call to action on the financial health of women and girls 
based  on  the  Beijing  Platform  for  Action.  We  call  on 
all  Governments  and  international  organizations  to 
support that worthy cause.
Belize  expanded 
the  coverage  of  our  health 
insurance scheme in the last budget year and, through 
our cooperation agreement with the Republic of Cuba, 
we  are  significantly  increasing  the  number  of  our 
health-care personnel. Indeed, only some three weeks 
ago  we  welcomed  a  contingent  of  some  35  newly 
trained  Belizean  doctors  —  the  largest  contingent  of 
doctors ever to return to our country in a single year. 
Our  citizens  are  our  nation’s  most  valuable  resource. 
We  are  resolved  to  invest  in  them,  to  enhance  their 
competences  and  to  ameliorate  the  quality  of  life  of 
each and every one of them.
The  victims  of  global  strife  and  global  tragedies 
are invariably human beings. The United Nations was 
founded on the determination that no other generation 
would have to suffer the scourge of war, which we all 
know brings nothing but death, destruction and sorrow 
to humankind. Our compact is to promote and protect 
fundamental human rights and the dignity and worth of 
the human person — all human persons of all nations, 
large and small.
The  devastating  Ebola  virus 
increasing 
exponentially  and 
frighteningly.  While  we  are 
disappointed that international health agencies did not 
respond  more  vigorously  and  with  greater  alacrity  to 
is 
the Ebola outbreak many months ago, Belize welcomes 
the  Secretary-General’s  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Ebola Emergency Response.
Belize  endorses  without  reservation  the  call  for 
the Republic of Taiwan to be permitted to participate 
in  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
this  modern  day  and  age,  it  is  incomprehensible  that 
we should want to deny ourselves the benefit of their 
expertise in dealing with global issues.
If we are to remain true to the principle of inclusion 
as  enshrined  in  our  Charter  and  as  promoted  in  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  we  must  continue  to 
advocate  for  the  right  of  the  Sahrawi  people  for  self-
determination.
The 
indiscriminate 
killing,  maiming 
and 
destruction recently meted out to innocent Palestinian 
civilians,  especially  helpless  women  and  children, 
and  their  possessions,  were  an  affront  to  decency, 
morality  and  humanity.  We  reiterate  our  support  for 
the  resolution  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  by 
diplomatic means and for the coexistence of the State 
of Israel and the State of Palestine in peace and security 
in  their  respective  pre-1967  international  borders,  as 
recognized by the international community.
Belize is convinced that any discussion of a future 
development  agenda  must  include  the  removal  of 
unilateral  harmful  practices  that  stifle  and  stagnate 
development, wherever they occur. In that respect, we 
join the rest of the international community in calling 
for an end to the anachronistic embargo against Cuba.
that 
Belize 
recognizes 
foremost  among  our 
development priorities is to ensure the sustainability of 
the environment, in keeping with our flagship status as 
a  haven  for  democracy,  the  promotion  and  protection 
of  human  rights  and  environmental  conservation.  We 
embrace  the  principle  that  economic  growth  should 
not  come  at  any  cost.  However,  neither  should  our 
people have to forgo development to protect the natural 
environment.  We  firmly  believe  that  it  is  a  false 
dichotomy to pit development against the environment. 
That is why we fully welcome and embrace the principle 
of sustainable development. Our future and the world’s 
depend  on  the  entire  globe  embracing  the  sustainable 
development approach.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Maxine  Pamela  Ometa  McClean,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
12/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  It  is  indeed  a  distinct 
privilege  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa on behalf of the Government and the people of 
Barbados  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  It  is  appropriate 
that  I  also  commend  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  the  aplomb  with  which  he  guided 
the deliberations of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session.
implementing  a 
The theme of this year’s Assembly — “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”  —  is  both  timely  and  critical. 
Fourteen years ago, world leaders placed the Millennium 
Development Goals, a set of time-bound and measurable 
goals and targets, at the heart of the global development 
agenda. Today, we stand on the cusp of the unveiling of 
a future global agenda for development. This must be an 
ambitious, long-term project to improve people’s lives 
and  protect  the  planet  for  future  generations.  The  17 
goals and targets proposed by the Open Working Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  must  form  the 
basis for the elaboration of the post-2015 development 
agenda. This is especially so if we are to create a truly 
transformative global programme anchored in the three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development,  with  poverty 
eradication  as  its  central  objective  and  overarching 
goal.
The  special  vulnerabilities  faced  by  small  island 
developing States (SIDS) and which serve to constrain 
our  development  are  well  known.  As  such,  the 
international community recognized SIDS as a special 
case  in  sustainable  development  in  Agenda  21  —  a 
recognition that is echoed in the Barbados Programme of 
Action; the Mauritius Strategy, the outcome document 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20); 
and, most recently, the Small Island Developing States 
Accelerated Modalities of Action (Samoa Pathway).
Despite  that  recognition,  the  Rio+20  outcome 
document indicated that SIDS have made less progress 
than  most  other  groupings,  or  even  regressed,  in 
economic 
terms  of  poverty 
reduction  and  debt  sustainability.  This  finding  was 
repeated  in  the  Samoa  Pathway.  The  International 
Monetary Fund has also acknowledged that, in the past 
10 years, SIDS have slid down the ladder of progress.
terms,  especially 
in 
In design, delivery and implementation, therefore, 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  must  as  a  priority 
address  the  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  and 
challenges  of  small  island  developing  States.  It  must 
foster  the  resilience  of  SIDS  as  a  key  objective  of 
global efforts. A development agenda that ignores the 
integration of SIDS-specific issues would be incomplete 
and of questionable validity.
The post-2015 development agenda must also make 
provisions  for  countries  like  Barbados,  which  is  both 
a small island developing State and a highly indebted 
middle-income  country.  We  continue  to  suffer  the 
devastating impact of the global economic and financial 
crisis and have limited scope, capacity, fiscal flexibility 
or policy space to respond effectively to them. We face 
declining  export  demand  and  decreased  investment 
and  demand  for  services  upon  which  our  economy  is 
dependent,  including  tourism.  Fiscal  and  financial 
stresses have forced us to make significant adjustments 
to our expenditure programmes. Against that backdrop, 
we face the daunting challenge of continuing to provide 
adequate social safety nets for the most vulnerable of 
our citizens in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Debt  servicing  and  debt  unsustainability  far  too 
easily undermine the advances that we desire to make 
towards  our  sustainable  development.  Too  often,  the 
plight  of  middle-income  countries  is  overlooked  on 
the  presumption  that  by  virtue  of  our  gross  domestic 
product (GDP) per capita we do not require international 
assistance. Barbados emphatically restates that GDP per 
capita cannot be the sole defining criterion for access 
to concessionary financing. The social, economic and 
environmental vulnerability of countries such as ours 
must be taken into account.
Barbados  is  therefore  pleased  to  see  that  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme’s  Human 
Development Report 2014, entitled “Sustaining Human 
Progress:  Reducing  Vulnerabilities  and  Building 
Resilience”,  incorporates  the  concept  of  vulnerability 
and  places  emphasis  on  strengthening  the  resilience 
of  people,  communities  and  countries.  It  is  our  hope 
that those factors will give a more accurate picture of 
the challenges that developing countries face. On that 
issue,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  Mr.  Freundel 
Stuart, stated in his address at the Third International 
Conference on Small Island Developing States, held in 
Samoa in September, that
“the  time  has  come  for  new  approaches  to  be 
designed to assist middle-income countries which 
have  been  graduated  from  access  to  concessional 
resources”.
14-55200
13/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
I  echo  that  call  today.  I  implore  the  international 
community  to  address  the  needs  of  middle-income 
countries in the elaboration of a post-2015 development 
agenda.  Accordingly,  Barbados  welcomes  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
to be held in Addis Ababa in July next year. The outcome 
of the Conference must make provisions for the special 
needs of SIDS and middle-income countries.
Barbados  is  fully  cognizant  of  the  responsibility 
that  developing  countries  themselves  bear  towards 
achieving their development goals. However, the reality 
is that, in seeking to meet those goals, the developing 
countries  are  forced  to  do  so  on  an  uneven  playing 
field.  The  global  financial  and  economic  system  and 
the governance process that accompanies it continue to 
operate in an exclusionary manner. Barbados reiterates 
its  call  for  a  more  transparent  architecture  that  is 
supportive of development objectives.
Barbados has developed and implemented a cross-
sectoral Green Economy Initiative, which is predicated 
on  the  fragility  of  our  small  island  ecosystems.  The 
Initiative  prioritizes  natural 
resource  protection 
intervention,  business  and  investment  choice,  human 
development programming and the facilitation of export 
market  development  strategies.  Barbados  continues 
to  partner  with  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  and,  more  recently,  the  United  Nations 
Industrial  Development  Organization  to  promote  a 
transition  to  a  resource-efficient  green  economy.  We 
have  taken  action  to  enact  a  series  of  incentives  in 
support of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
Our  efforts  to  transition  to  a  green  economy  will 
be undone if the international community does not take 
immediate and urgent action to address climate change. 
The  most  recent  findings  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change  underscore,  yet  again,  the 
vulnerability  of  SIDS,  particularly  to  the  effects  of 
climate change, sea-level rise, ocean acidification and 
extreme  weather  events.  Together,  they  represent  an 
existential  threat  to  SIDS.  We  therefore  urge  major 
carbon emitters to take all necessary actions.
Barbados  welcomed  the  holding  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Climate  Summit  2014  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  on  23  September.  We  hope  that  the 
momentum  from  the  Summit  will  inject  urgency  into 
the  proceedings  of  the  upcoming  twentieth  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 20), 
to  be  held  in  Lima  in  December.  We  also  hope  that, 
beyond  COP  20,  it  will  ultimately  galvanize  political 
will to conclude the negotiation of an ambitious, legally 
binding  international  climate  agreement  in  Paris  in 
2015.
If  SIDS  are  to  have  an  impact  internationally, 
particularly  at  this  crucial  moment  during  the  design 
and  construction  of  a  new  global  architecture  for 
sustainable  development,  we  must  ensure  that  our 
voices are heard. We must be guided by the concept of 
a  SIDS  collectivity  that  recognizes  strength  in  unity. 
We SIDS must speak with one voice at the international 
level.
Any  discussion  on  the  creation  of  a  new  global 
sustainable  development  agenda  must  have  at  its  core 
the  means  of  implementation.  Indeed,  the  means  of 
implementation  must  be  the  foundation  on  which 
the  agenda  is  based.  We  know  that  MDG  8,  global 
partnership for development, remains one of the least 
fulfilled of all of the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  international  community  can  therefore  ill  afford 
to  let  the  new  development  agenda  fail  as  a  result  of 
a  lack  of  adequate  and  reliable  means  to  implement 
it.  The  means  of  implementation  must  encompass 
far  more  than  financing.  As  we  use  the  sixty-ninth 
session  to  complete  the  framework  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda, it is incumbent upon us to ensure 
that  definitive  and  durable  partnerships  are  made  to 
facilitate the following elements — first, the provision 
of  adequate  financial  and  other  resources;  secondly, 
fair  trade  and  market  access;  and  thirdly,  technology 
transfer and capacity-building, particularly in the area 
of data collection and statistical analysis.
My country sees peace and security as enablers and 
indicators of sustainable development. They constitute 
indispensable  prerequisites  for  human,  social  and 
economic  development,  as  well  as  for  progress  and 
prosperity.  Barbados  therefore  views  the  continuing 
crises  and  armed  conflicts,  including  those  in  the 
Central African Republic, South Sudan, Syria, Iraq and 
Ukraine,  with  grave  concern.  Indeed,  we  view  them 
with grave alarm. Armed non-State actors and terrorist 
groups continue to destroy lives, destabilize nations and 
threaten national and international peace and security.
In  the  face  of  such  hostilities  and  blatant  acts  of 
aggression,  the  Security  Council  has  been  paralysed. 
Barbados will continue to be actively engaged within 
the Caribbean Community in negotiations on the reform 
of the Security Council. We applaud Ambassador Ashe, 
former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  for  his 
14/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
initiative to move discussions on the issue forward. We 
also  welcome  the  summary  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  prepared  by 
the Chair of the Open-ended Working Group. Barbados 
calls on all Member States to work assiduously during 
the  current  session  to  make  substantial  progress,  if 
not  to  finalize,  the  decades-long  project  of  Security 
Council reform.
My country reiterates its commitment to democracy 
and  the  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.  We  welcome  the  discussions  that  will  take 
place during this session on the responsibility to protect. 
Our position is motivated by principle and objectivity, 
and we have no desire to see the issue politicized.
The  Ebola  outbreak  constitutes  a  public-health 
emergency  of  international  concern  and  a  threat  to 
global security. It also threatens the peacebuilding and 
development  gains  of  the  countries  most  affected.  It 
is our sincere hope that the recently adopted Security 
Council resolution 2177 (2014) and General Assembly 
resolutions 69/1 and 69/3 will accelerate the mobilization 
of resources to assist the affected countries and halt the 
epidemic.
Barbados  has  long  supported  a  negotiated  two-
State solution to the question of Palestine, the right of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination  and  their 
right to live in peace and security in a Palestinian State 
within  pre-1967  borders.  Barbados’s  position  is  that 
the State of Israel has a right to exist and the people of 
Israel have a right to live in security and to do so with 
the  full  and  undisputed  recognition  of  the  rest  of  the 
world.  The  Palestinians  are  also  entitled  to  enjoy  the 
fruits  of  prosperity  within  their  own  sovereign  State. 
This  year’s  unprecedented  escalation  of  the  crisis  in 
Palestine revealed, yet again, the urgent need to reach a 
durable, negotiated solution, and we call on all parties 
to rededicate themselves to achieving that aim.
The  long-standing  economic  embargo  on  Cuba 
continues  to  be  of  serious  concern  to  Barbados.  The 
Government  of  Cuba  has  always  demonstrated  a 
willingness  to  assist  the  Caribbean,  and  indeed  the 
developing world, in our quest for development. We join 
with the overwhelming majority of States Member of the 
United  Nations  in  opposing  that  unilateral  action  and 
look forward to a time — the sooner, the better — when 
it will be relegated to the pages of history.
In  closing,  Barbados  believes  that  there  is  an 
inextricable  link  among  development,  international 
peace  and  security.  As  we  stated  in  1993,  within  the 
context of an “Agenda for Peace”,
“Where access to food, clothing, shelter, education, 
health and the opportunity for gainful employment 
is denied, democracy cannot flourish” (A/48/PV.26, 
p. 11).
We  also  hold  the  converse  to  be  true.  There  can 
be  no  real  development  without  respect  for  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  democracy.  We  hope  that 
much of the time and energy of this body at its sixty-
ninth  session  will  be  spent  on  delivering  a  post-2015 
development agenda that will redound to the benefit of 
us all. Barbados will continue to be in the vanguard of 
that effort.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Samuel  Santos  López,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr. Santos López (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): 
We are proud to have our African brother, Sam Kutesa, 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Uganda — a 
member country of the African Union — presiding over 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. We are 
fully confident that during his tenure he will advocate 
for and advance the most pressing issues of our peoples. 
He can count on Nicaragua’s support.
We  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  previous  session,  a 
brother  from  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  Ambassador  John  Ashe  of  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  and  his  entire  team  for  their  dedicated 
leadership and unstinting effort to realize an agenda for 
the benefit of our peoples.
We  live  in  a  world  of  many  interconnected  and 
related  crises  that  reveal  the  unjust  and  inequitable 
development policies prevailing among various peoples 
and  nations.  The  existing  unjust  economic  order, 
resulting  from  imperialism  and  its  contemporary 
model  —  global  capitalism  —  has  failed  to  respond 
to  the  growing  and  increasingly  frequent  crises.  The 
numbers of the world’s poor increase daily in both the 
South and the North, in flagrant violation of the most 
basic human rights. We must work together to overcome 
and  eradicate  poverty,  hunger,  malnutrition,  disease, 
war  and  conflict,  regime  change  politics  and  coups, 
violence  against  women  and  children,  the  arms  race, 
the negative impacts of climate change, and emerging 
social and slavery plagues, including drug trafficking, 
14-55200
15/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
organized crime and human trafficking, among others, 
as soon as possible.
Social  justice,  solidarity,  unity,  complementarity 
among  peoples,  and  brotherhood  and  respect  among 
nations  must  prevail.  The  eradication  of  poverty 
remains  the  greatest  challenge  facing  the  world. 
We  will  begin  negotiations  on  the  post-2015  agenda 
with  the  central  concern  of  not  having  achieved 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  all 
developing  countries.  It  is  urgent  to  redouble  efforts 
and  create  an  international  environment  conducive  to 
facilitating  developing  countries’  implementation  of 
the MDGs, including appropriate financing.
social  development, 
The  post-2015  agenda  will  provide  a  new 
opportunity  to  strive  for  a  just  world  order.  It  should 
promote  sustained  economic  growth,  inclusive  and 
participatory 
environmental 
protection and human dignity, with sufficient flexibility 
to  respond  to  the  needs,  priorities  and  specificities 
of each country and region, conscious of the fact that 
no single model or recipe for development exists. The 
agenda should involve an intergovernmental, open and 
transparent  process,  based  on  the  results  of  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development.
Developing  countries  suffer  the  most  from  the 
adverse  effects  of  climate  change,  whose  extreme 
meteorological phenomena are ever more frequent and 
intense. Despite our economic limitations and prioritized 
focus on poverty and sustainable development and with 
no obligation under the Convention, we are assuming 
the costs of the adaptation and mitigation efforts.
We  must  urgently  achieve  a  binding  agreement 
in  2015,  containing  strong,  ambitious  and  balanced 
commitments  on  all  its  provisions  and  based  on  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change and its principles and provisions, particularly 
equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, 
in  order  to  address  the  climate  crisis  and  protect  the 
ecosystems that sustain life on our Mother Earth.
No  country  that  is  part  of  the  international 
community can claim the right to use or threaten the use 
of force in its international relations. Such exceptionalist 
policies not only do not resolve conflicts; rather, they 
stir things up, as has been seen in recent years. Dialogue 
and negotiation are the only means to resolve conflict. 
Based on its Charter, the United Nations must assume 
its  role  as  the  main  organ  responsible  for  ensuring 
world  peace  and  must  reject  war-mongering  policies, 
war  and  confrontation.  Given  the  challenges  we  are 
dealing  with,  thorough  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
is  becoming  increasingly  imperative,  and  particularly 
reform of the Security Council, which should recognize 
contemporary  realities  by  including  the  voices  and 
votes of developing countries in the categories of both 
permanent and non-permanent members.
We  consider  it  vital  that  we  have  a  nuclear-
weapon-free world with total and complete disarmament. 
We welcome the designation last year of 26 September 
as  the  International  Day  for  the  Total  Elimination 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  initiated  by  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement at Cuba’s suggestion.
In the face of the growing Ebola epidemic, Cuba, 
our sister in solidarity, has once again made its human 
and  scientific  resources  available  to  work  alongside 
our  African  brothers  who  are  fighting  the  deadly 
virus.  Meanwhile,  that  same  sister  nation  of  Cuba 
continues to resist the criminal economic and financial 
embargo imposed on it by the United States. Nicaragua 
emphasizes its unconditional solidarity with Cuba and 
demands an end to a blockade that violates international 
law  and  the  human  rights  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  We 
demand  the  immediate  and  unconditional  release  of 
the five anti-terrorist Cuban patriots. And we condemn 
the  role  that  the  United  States  arrogates  to  itself  in 
putting countries on its unilateral and arbitrary list of 
State sponsors of international terrorism, and demand 
that Cuba be removed from the list. We condemn such 
anachronistic  United  States  policies,  as  well  as  the 
intensification of the blockade and its extra-territorial 
nature.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  and  its 
Bolivarian revolution continue to suffer from harassment, 
interference and external aggression. Nicaragua offers 
its  unconditional  support  to  Venezuela’s  people  and 
Government,  led  by  our  comrade  Nicolás  Maduro 
Moros, in their defence of their revolutionary liberation 
process.
We must bring to an immediate end Israel’s illegal 
occupation  of  Palestinian  territory  and  prevent  Israel 
from  continuing  its  aggression  and  brutal  attacks 
on  the  men,  women  and  children  of  Palestine.  The 
Security Council should once and for all live up to its 
obligations and demand that Israel end such practices 
and  policies  in  order  to  clear  the  way  for  a  sovereign 
and  independent  State  of  Palestine,  based  on  its 
16/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
pre-1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
and  with  two  States,  Palestine  and  Israel,  living  side 
by side in peace. Nicaragua reiterates its absolute and 
unconditional solidarity with the State of Palestine in 
its fight for freedom and its inalienable rights.
We  also  stress  our  total  solidarity  with  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Syria  in  their  fight 
against international terrorism and in defence of their 
sovereignty and territorial integrity. We emphasize the 
importance of achieving a negotiated political solution 
among  Syrians  and  ending  foreign 
intervention, 
including  the  financing  and  supplying  of  weapons  to 
terrorist  groups.  When  confronted  by  such  conflicts, 
rather  than  opting  for  dialogue  and  negotiation  to 
settle  them,  the  NATO  countries  take  unilateral 
decisions,  measures  and  action  outside  the  United 
Nations  framework  and  in  violation  of  international 
law,  including  aerial  bombardment  in  territories  of 
sovereign countries.
Nicaragua  has  frequently  expressed  its  rejection 
and condemnation of actions aimed at regime change, 
which rupture constitutional order, lead to widespread 
violence, encourage the use of force and open the door to 
coups d’état that can overthrow legitimate Governments 
elected  by  the  will  of  the  people.  That  is  the  kind  of 
policy  that  we  have  witnessed  in  Ukraine;  it  has  led 
to  loss  of  life  and  the  displacement  of  populations, 
and  created  a  humanitarian  crisis  with  unpredictable 
consequences.  Because  we  want  peace  and  believe  in 
the prevention and resolution of conflicts by peaceful 
and  inclusive  means,  we  reject  such  policies,  as  well 
as the imposition of unilateral measures and economic 
sanctions that violate international law.
Nicaragua recognizes the cooperation of China on 
Taiwan  with  developing  countries,  particularly  in  the 
area of food and social inclusion programmes, and we 
reiterate  our  support  for  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
China on Taiwan for greater participation in the United 
Nations specialized agencies, one that accords with the 
requirements and needs of its population of 23 million.
We  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the  legitimate 
rights  of  the  Republic  of  Argentina  in  the  dispute 
over  the  sovereignty  of  the  Malvinas  Islands,  the 
South Sandwich Islands and the adjacent islands. The 
United Kingdom should comply immediately with the 
relevant United Nations resolutions and initiate direct 
negotiations with Argentina. Similarly, we support and 
consider  ourselves  part  of  Argentina’s  fight  against 
vulture funds.
Puerto Rico continues to labour under the colonial 
yoke and now more than ever needs our solidarity and 
active  support  in  its  struggle  for  independence  and 
self-determination.  The  United  States  should  free  the 
world’s longest-imprisoned political captive, the Puerto 
Rican patriot Oscar López Rivera. We also commend 
and remain in solidarity with the struggle of the people 
of  Western  Sahara  under  the  leadership  of  the  Frente 
Polisario.
Nicaragua,  a  small  country  whose  policies  are 
based on Christian values, socialist principles and the 
practice of solidarity, works proactively in our complex 
global environment, through various international and 
regional forums, to promote policies of peace, unity and 
understanding among nations, political and negotiated 
solutions  to  conflicts  and  the  right  of  our  peoples  to 
achieve sustainable development and well-being.
The  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America,  of  which  Nicaragua  is  a  member,  has  been 
a  factor  in  improving  unity,  complementarity  and 
economic integration in our region. In turn, it promotes 
other forums such as Petrocaribe, which groups together 
20  countries  of  our  region  and  has  had  an  immediate 
and concrete positive impact on the well-being of our 
peoples as one way of overcoming poverty, hunger and 
inequality. On 14 December, we will celebrate the tenth 
anniversary of its founding, resulting from the unifying 
vision  of  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  leaders 
Hugo Chávez Frias and Fidel Castro Ruz.
These  steps  towards  regional  integration  have 
borne fruit with the creation of the Community of Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  through  which  we 
continue to deepen our process of political, economic, 
social and cultural integration, respecting diversity and 
building unity. We have declared our region a zone of 
peace. Within the framework of the Central American 
Integration System, we are strengthening integration in 
all fields and working together to fight the scourges of 
drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime  and  to  turn  the 
Gulf of Fonseca into a zone of peace and development.
Our  Government  of  Reconciliation  and  National 
Unity, under the visionary leadership of our President, 
Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra, continues to work 
to  restore  the  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights  of  all  Nicaraguans.  Nicaragua  has  become  the 
leading country in the region in terms of public safety. 
Our  fight  against  drug  trafficking,  organized  crime 
and human trafficking has been recognized as the most 
vigorous  and  effective  in  the  region.  Our  economic 
14-55200
17/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
growth is consistent and rising and is among the highest 
of  our  region.  We  are  reducing  poverty  and  extreme 
poverty, attaining the Millennium Development Goals 
and empowering women through political and economic 
participation. Indeed, we rank very highly in the world 
in  terms  of  female  ministers,  parliamentarians  and 
mayors.
We combat violence against women and girls head 
on,  with  strict  laws  and  social  programmes  targeting 
both groups, and with police stations for women in all 
municipalities of the country. Education and health care 
are prioritized and are provided free for all Nicaraguans, 
and  early  childhood  care  programmes  and  maternity 
homes can be found throughout the country.
In our Caribbean autonomous regions, in addition 
to  the  restitution  of  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples 
and  people  of  African  descent,  the  autonomy  process 
is  growing  in  strength  every  day,  with  the  recent 
completion  of  the  land  ownership  process  in  the 
indigenous  and  Afro-descendant  communities.  All 
these  efforts  of  our  people  and  Government,  together 
with  our  policies  of  inclusion  and  social  justice,  won 
immediate  recognition  and  support  from  our  people, 
who have taken ownership of them, and they have been 
held up as examples of good practice by all the agencies, 
projects and programmes of the United Nations system.
In conclusion, we note that the work of the General 
Assembly  at  the  present  session  and  in  the  coming 
years will be crucial for developing countries and the 
rest of the world. Let us unite from this very moment 
to achieve the urgent and necessary changes needed to 
attain a better world and better lives for our peoples.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Mohamad  Waheed,  former  President  and  Special 
Envoy of the President of the Republic of Maldives.
Mr. Waheed (Maldives): Allow me to extend warm 
greetings  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
upon  the  assumption  of  his  duties  at  the  sixty-ninth 
session. I also recognize the exemplary stewardship of 
Mr. John Ashe, the outgoing President, and record our 
appreciation of the Secretary-General’s stewardship of 
the Organization during these difficult times.
What  defines  the  great  communities  of  our  times 
is  their  ability  to  overcome  the  unexpected  and  to 
persevere and adapt to changing realities — from the 
daunting effects of climate change and the ever-pressing 
challenges  of  poverty  and  want  to  the  uncontrollable 
spread of disease. Communities everywhere are striving 
to  overcome  such  obstacles.  When  communities  are 
subject to challenges that are impossible to bear, they 
think  beyond  the  realm  of  possibilities  and  begin 
seeking different answers to the same questions. That 
is  when  they  nurture  their  ability  to  bounce  back 
from  adversity,  shock  and  threats.  The  ultimate  goal 
of fostering resilience is to overcome the unexpected. 
Sustainability  is  about  managing,  but  resilience  is 
about thriving.
For the past eight decades, the Maldives has been 
on  a  journey  to  consolidate  democracy.  Last  year, 
our  democracy  faced  unprecedented  challenges.  Yet 
we  were  able  to  overcome  those  hurdles  entirely  by 
peaceful  means.  Even  though  it  sometimes  felt  as  if 
we were quite alone in this fight, we are proud of what 
we  have  achieved.  We  take  pride  in  the  fact  that  our 
democracy  is  home-grown.  Our  systems  are  organic. 
Our  young  institutions,  as  in  the  older  democracies 
of  the  world,  are  gradually  settling  into  patterns  and 
traditions that are unique to our string of islands and in 
harmony with our Islamic heritage and our traditions.
Our experience clearly shows that holding elections 
or  introducing  a  multiparty  political  system  does  not 
instil  democratic  values  in  a  society.  Democracy 
cannot  be  traced  in  the  pages  of  laws.  The  only  way 
for a new home-grown democracy to achieve resilience 
is  to  shift  the  way  its  people  think.  A  transformation 
in their normative framework is necessary. Democratic 
values  need  to  find  a  place  in  the  hearts  and  minds 
of  the  people.  The  Government  of  President  Abdulla 
Yameen Abdul Gayoom and the people of the Maldives 
are  determined  to  achieve  a  modern  and  authentic 
Maldivian democratic State.
Promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  is  central 
to  Maldivian  democracy.  Our  Constitution  is  very 
clear on what those rights entail. Yet with every right  
come responsibilities. It has been a daunting challenge 
to  make  human  rights  a  way  of  life.  That  is  why  the 
Maldives advocates cultivating a culture of respect for 
human rights. Policies need to be rights-based. People 
need to be rights-minded.
People  must  lie  at  the  heart  of  every  decision  we 
make and every policy we adopt. The ultimate goal of 
every action must be to improve the lives of our people. 
The  Government  of  President  Yameen  has  embarked 
on  an  ambitious  programme  aimed  at  realizing  the 
full  potential  of  our  young  people.  The  goal  of  the 
Government is to create opportunities that would help 
to unleash their creativity. Young people are the future 
18/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
of any country, and, without the full realization of their 
productive capabilities, countries cannot prosper.
A  few  days  ago,  the  United  Nations  marked  an 
important  milestone:  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference on Population and Development. Today, we 
celebrate the achievement of many of the goals of that 
Programme —  most  notably,  low  maternal  and  infant 
mortality rates, gender parity in school enrolment and 
equal pay for equal work.
the 
Next  year,  we  will  celebrate 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  another  important 
document, the Beijing Platform for Action. It is a fact, 
not  mere  speculation,  that  for  building  resilience  and 
building  sustainable  societies,  women’s  contributions 
are  a  necessity.  Women  have  achieved  remarkable 
progress since the Beijing Platform. Maldivian women 
are  among  the  most  emancipated  in  South  Asia,  with 
no  structural  barriers  to  education,  employment  or 
mobility.  Still,  much  remains  to  be  achieved.  Just  as 
an  example,  I  ask  the  Assembly  to  think  back  over 
the  past  week  of  general  debate.  How  many  women 
spoke at this rostrum? How many countries can claim 
to  have  achieved  parity  between  men  and  women 
at  decision-making  levels?  In  the  Maldives,  we  are 
committed to empowering women and have adopted a 
zero-tolerance policy towards violence against women.
The resilience of our people in overcoming adversity 
in their lives is rooted in their ability to rise up from 
the fear of want and the fear of need. The Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  were  framed  to  do  just 
that.  The  MDGs  committed  to  a  new  partnership  to 
reduce extreme poverty, halt the spread of HIV/AIDS 
and provide primary education for all. The MDGs set 
benchmarks  and  gave  targets  to  Governments.  Those 
targets  enabled  them  to  plan  effectively.  The  MDGs, 
though remarkable for their time, were limited and are 
now reaching their expiry date. We ardently believe that 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  must  be  inclusive, 
transparent and people-centred. The new development 
agenda should succeed where the MDGs failed.
At  times,  the  violence,  bloodshed,  conflict  and 
upheaval  that  we  witness  on  a  daily  basis  seem 
unbearable.  In  July  2014,  we  watched  with  grief  the 
horrendous  attack  on  the  Gaza  Strip  —  another  in  a 
countless cycle of aggression and brutality. Our hearts 
bleed for the countless children who lost their lives, the 
mothers who lost their children, the nation and the State 
of  Palestine,  which  lost  countless  citizens.  After  the 
global outcry and the outpouring of condemnation, the 
guns have stopped firing and the bombs have stopped 
dropping. The world seems to have moved on to the next 
crisis. The news cycles have found their next headline.
Yet, we recall here again, the siege is not over. The 
blockade has not ended. Gaza has been destroyed and 
its development set back several years. Palestinians are 
still  being  denied  their  right  to  a  sovereign  nation  of 
their own, to their own lands and to the fruits of their 
labour. Palestinian children are being denied a right to 
determine their own destiny. Are we willing to let that 
continue? We must do more to help realize the dream 
of peace in the Middle East and a two-State solution. 
We must resume peace talks with a clear goal and an 
endpoint in mind.
The biggest challenge to our development and our 
way  of  life  is  ignorance,  violence,  subjugation  and 
perpetual  poverty.  Misinformed  yet  talented  young 
people can easily be lured into fanaticism, radicalism 
and  extremism.  Islam’s  identity  as  a  religion  that 
supports  innovation,  knowledge  and  scholarship  is 
slowly eroding away. The golden era of our religion is 
almost forgotten.
Today, the world has a choice to make. Should we 
allow extremists to shape our future? Or should we take 
decisive actions to defeat the extremist ideologies? Our 
answer to those questions will define the way in which 
we  deal  with  the  so-called  Islamic  State  and  other 
terrorist groups. Not only are those groups un-Islamic, 
they are anti-Islamic. They are terrorist organizations, 
not  religious  groups.  Islam,  our  great  religion  of 
peace, compassion and tolerance, is being hijacked by 
radical  and  extremist  elements  to  perpetuate  hatred 
and  violence.  We,  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Maldives, condemn in the strongest terms those groups, 
their ideologies and their activities. We join our fellow 
Muslims around the world in saying “not in my name”.
The  unique  challenges  faced  by  small  island 
developing  States  are  well  known.  Climate  change 
exacerbates those challenges. We remain hopeful that 
a legally binding treaty will be agreed to next year in 
Paris.  The  Maldives  stands  ready  to  do  all  it  can  to 
make  this  hope  a  reality,  for  the  sake  of  our  children 
and our nation.
Earlier  this  month,  we  agreed  to  a  new  highway 
for  development,  the  Small  Island  Developing  States 
Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway. We commend 
Samoa for its leadership in setting the vision for a new 
14-55200
19/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
gateway  for  small  States.  To  make  the  partnership 
enduring, we need the small island developing States to 
make their voices heard and to be united in the quest. 
The  Maldives  has  therefore  been  inspired  to  take  the 
lead in forming the Alliance of Small Island States for 
the purpose of facing the challenges of post-2015 and 
beyond. We call on others to join us in that journey.
commitments in that regard. In addition, we deposited 
our instrument of ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty 
(ATT), which helped to bring the number of countries 
to  50  and  so  caused  the  Treaty  to  enter  into  force. 
Furthermore, in the margins of the session, we signed 
a memorandum of understanding with the International 
Organization for Migration.
Nine  days  ago,  on  21  September,  we  celebrated 
49  years  of  membership  in  the  United  Nations.  The 
Maldives  joined  the  United  Nations  a  mere  58  days 
after  independence  —  we  were  the  smallest  Member 
State  at  the  time.  As  we  look  forward  to  celebrating 
50 years of membership in 2015, the Maldives is happy 
to note that the United Nations has served us well. We 
joined the United Nations in 1965, amid questions over 
the viability of small States. In the past 49 years, the 
Maldives has taken the lead in showing the world that 
small States are not only viable, but in fact valuable in 
finding common solutions to common problems. Today, 
at the United Nations, we continue to prove that small 
States  can  also  lead  and  that  it  is  not  size  but  smart 
ideas that make a nation’s destiny.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Frederick A. Mitchell, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Immigration of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr.  Mitchell  (Bahamas):  Kamalesh  Sharma,  the 
Secretary  General  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Nations, 
said to us at a gathering here in New York a few days 
ago:  “Do  not  be  demoralized  by  your  income,  be 
inspired  by  your  outcome”.  That  should  be  a  driving 
principle as all countries, particularly the small island 
developing  States,  seek  to  determine  what  the  post-
2015  development  agenda  will  be.  The  obstacles  are 
many. The lip service is evident. We have hope, and our 
moral case is strong. We are inspired by the potential 
outcomes of this new development agenda.
We  must  be  people-focused  and,  in  that  regard,  I 
remember a story told by a colleague, a Minister from 
the Far East, who explained his absence to a constituent 
at home as dealing with many of the world’s problems. 
“Yes”, said the constituent to him, “but the water pump 
in  the  village  has  not  been  fixed”.  It  is  a  reminder 
of  whom  we  really  work  for  in  this  body  —  not  for 
ourselves, but for that villager who needs the pump at 
home to be fixed.
At  this  session,  our  Prime  Minister  gave  a 
comprehensive  statement  on  climate  change  and  the 
need for developed countries to honour their financial 
There are no higher priorities for the Bahamas than 
these  matters:  the  environment,  fighting  crime  and 
containing  illegal  immigration.  They  go  to  the  very 
root of our existence. If we do not resolve the climate 
change issues, there will be no Bahamas. Solving the 
crime problem in the Bahamas is key to our domestic 
peace and economic survivability. No Bahamian doubts 
that  the  control  of  illegal  immigration  is  central  to 
our survivability as a country, central to our national 
identity, and central to our national security. We have 
only  to  see  today  how  illegal  immigration  drains  our 
financial resources, and we do not have to look far to 
see how unchecked immigration in other countries has 
been a recipe for civil strife within their borders. We 
do not intend for that to happen to us. All of the efforts 
related to the three main themes I have just mentioned 
are  buttressed  by  our  work  to  ensure  that  we  have  a 
robust, strong and sustainable economy.
Tourism  is  by  far  the  number-one  economic 
activity  for  the  Bahamas.  The  environment  is  central 
to that business. It should therefore be no surprise that 
the Bahamas has adopted or established the following: 
the National Environmental Policy, 2005; the National 
Environmental  Management  and  Action  Plan  for  the 
Bahamas, 2005; the Bahamas National Wetland Policy, 
2007;  the  Bahamas  Protected  Areas  Fund,  2013;  and 
the  Forestry  Amendment  Act,  2014.  We  believe  that 
those  policies  and  programmes  will  all  help  with  the 
issue of climate change. We also believe that the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is 
the primary international, intergovernmental forum for 
negotiating the global response to climate change. We 
believe that it should be completed with dispatch.
The  Bahamas  is  committed  to  the  small  island 
developing  States  processes  at  the  United  Nations. 
The  Bahamas  welcomes  the  convening  of  the  World 
Conference  on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  next  year  in 
Japan.
The Bahamas is appalled by the practice of killing 
sharks simply for their fins. We must make the fishing 
of  sharks  a  sustainable  practice,  as  these  creatures 
are a vital part of the global ecosystem. The Bahamas 
20/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
therefore  assumed  the  chairmanship  of  the  United 
Nations Save Our Sharks Coalition in December 2013. 
The  aims  of  the  Coalition  resonate  with  us,  and  we 
believe that we can help save the shark from extinction.
The  Bahamas  has  been  grappling  with  serious 
crimes  in  our  society,  related  largely  to,  first,  the 
inability  of  young  males  to  settle  disputes  without 
recourse  to  violence  and,  secondly,  the  resulting 
proliferation  of  gang  activity  and  trafficking  in  illicit 
drugs, small arms and light weapons, and ammunition. 
The  Bahamas  therefore  became  actively  involved  in 
the  negotiations  leading  to  the  successful  adoption  of 
the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  considered  its  adoption 
a  landmark  accomplishment  for  the  United  Nations 
(resolution  67/234  B).  The  Government  believes  the 
entry  into  force  of  the  ATT  will  contribute  to  peace 
and  security  in  the  Bahamas  and  throughout  our 
region. We deposited the instrument of ratification of 
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas to the Arms Trade 
Treaty  on  25  September.  We  continue  to  fight  the 
illegal drug trade and trafficking in persons, and we are 
investing  in  social  intervention  programmes,  like  the 
award-winning Urban Renewal Programme, in order to 
fight crime.
the 
International  Organization 
I spoke earlier of the memorandum of understanding 
signed  with 
for 
Migration. This is one part of a multifaceted strategy 
to  stop  the  flow  of  undocumented  non-nationals  into 
Bahamian  territory.  New  policies  and  measures  are 
now  in  place,  and  there  will  be  stricter  adherence  in 
the future to them to stop this trafficking. A new fleet 
of vessels has been purchased to support our work to 
stop  migrant  smuggling.  In  the  last  few  months,  the 
Bahamas  has  entered  into  important  agreements  with 
our  immediate  neighbours  —  Cuba,  the  Dominican 
Republic and Haiti — to come to terms with the vexing 
situations that impact our good relations. Those accords 
are on fishing and on migration. Let there be no doubt 
that we mean to bring illegal migration under control.
Nevertheless,  our  relations  with  neighbouring 
countries  remain  good.  This  is  all  the  more  reason 
why we believe that the continued economic embargo 
by  one  neighbour  against  another  in  our  region  is 
counterproductive  to  the  peace  and  good  order  of  the 
region.  We  continue  to  keep  matters  with  regard  to 
the governance issues in our neighbour, the Turks and 
Caicos Islands, under review.
The  Bahamas  looks  forward  to  the  forthcoming 
launch of the International Decade for People of African 
Descent,  which  will  have  as  its  theme  “People  of 
African descent: recognition, justice and development”. 
That theme could also be linked to the efforts of States 
members of the Caribbean Community in seeking the 
restorative  justice  due  from  the  legacy  of  400  years 
of slavery. We were heartened by the unveiling of the 
winning design for the permanent memorial to honour 
the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. 
We reaffirm our support for that important project.
The  Bahamas 
The Bahamas welcomes the convening of the third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
to be held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in July 2015. We 
plan to participate in that conference, which we expect 
will provide a forum to address the need to demystify 
and  replace  the  view  that  gross  domestic  product 
is  the  sole  indicator  of  sustainable  development  —  a 
replacement that needs to be converted into policy — as 
well  as  the  matter  of  international  cooperation  in  tax 
matters.  In  that  regard,  the  Bahamas  reaffirms  the 
important  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  addressing 
matters related to international tax cooperation, given 
its universality and legitimacy.
reaffirms 
to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms for all people, regardless of their 
station or status in society. These rights and freedoms 
are neither negotiable nor peripheral. As a demonstration 
of  its  commitment  to  human  rights,  I  am  pleased  to 
report that the Bahamas has passed national legislation, 
the  Persons  with  Disabilities  (Equal  Opportunities) 
Act, which will ensure its ratification of the Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  in  due 
course. In addition, four bills have been introduced in 
Parliament with a view to amending the Constitution of 
the Bahamas to bring about full equality between men 
and women in law. This event will mark a significant 
opportunity for the people of the Bahamas to usher in a 
new era of equality for men and women.
its  commitment 
The  Bahamas  looks  forward  to  the  process  of 
elaborating  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  to 
actively participating in the intergovernmental process 
that will lead to the adoption of this agenda in September 
2015. Our vision for the post-2015 development agenda 
is creative, inclusive and transformative.
The Bahamas endorses the idea of Security Council 
reform.  As  we  look  around  at  the  tens  of  millions  of 
dollars that have been, and are being, spent to bring the 
physical structure up to code and into the twenty-first 
century, why cannot we ensure that the organs of the 
14-55200
21/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
United  Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council,  also 
reflect twenty-first-century realities?
and that we are far from realizing the world envisaged 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
Last year, the Bahamas celebrated its fortieth year 
of independence. In addressing the General Assembly 
last year (see A/68/PV.19), the Right Honourable Perry 
Christie,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Bahamas,  renewed 
the  commitment  of  our  country  to  playing  its  part  in 
making  our  planet  a  more  peaceful  and  prosperous 
place, characterized by cooperation, mutual respect and 
support.  We  believe  that  each  country  has  a  primary 
responsibility for its own development, and, throughout 
my  statement,  I  have  indicated  our  achievements  and 
challenges in that regard. I repeat that the environment, 
crime  and  illegal  migration  are  issues  of  existential 
significance to our country. However, despite the many 
challenges, we are inspired by the possible outcomes. 
We therefore exhort the Members of the United Nations 
to stay motivated and committed, for each new effort 
undertaken and each achievement registered brings us 
nearer to our development goals. Now, more than ever, 
we need the United Nations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Lyonpo  Damcho  Dorji,  Minister  of 
Home and Cultural Affairs of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Mr. Dorji (Bhutan): I wish to begin by conveying 
the warm greetings of His Majesty the King of Bhutan. 
It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  be  present  in  this  grand 
assembly of nations. Great men and women of our time 
have  graced  this  rostrum.  Yet  the  magnitude  of  the 
challenges  we  are  called  on  to  address  today  remains 
formidable — greater than any person or any country 
we represent.
The  United  Nations  was  founded  to  unlock  the 
potential  of  our  collective  endeavour  to  promote  the 
peace, prosperity and progress of succeeding generations 
of  humankind.  As  we  approach 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  our  Organization, 
the  considerable  gains  we  have  made  on  the  social, 
economic and political fronts give us many reasons to 
be hopeful. However, we continue to be confronted by 
grave challenges. They include the festering wounds of 
age-old  conflicts  that  threaten  to  spin  out  of  control; 
new tensions and the resurgence of violent extremism; 
the irrefutable evidence of the menace posed by climate 
change  to  life  on  our  planet;  and  the  unconscionable 
inequities and injustices that contribute to the fact that 
millions are deprived of such basic needs as food and 
shelter. All of these are compelling issues that remind 
us that we have yet to heed the tragic lessons of the past, 
We  commend  the  President  for  his  choice  of 
the 
theme  for 
this  session,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”.  This  is  an  opportune  moment  to  redefine  a 
new era in international development and cooperation, 
one that can build on the successes and shortcomings 
of  more  than  three  decades  of  internationally  agreed 
development  goals,  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals in particular. The process must activate real and 
meaningful  change  for  all  countries  if  it  is  indeed  to 
be transformative. For this to happen, the agenda must 
be anchored to the need for breakthroughs to address 
the hard realities on the ground in individual countries, 
especially  with  regard  to  capacity  and  financing  for 
development.
Accordingly,  a  collaborative  approach,  based 
on  an  appreciation  of  the  unique  circumstances  and 
experience of each country and driven by the desire for 
true working partnerships among and within countries, 
will be vital. Such an approach would require changes 
in our development paradigm, in our beliefs regarding 
the  sustainability  of  the  world’s  current  trajectory, 
and  in  our  behaviour  as  individuals,  which  shape  our 
national character and our destiny as an international 
community of nations.
A small, least developed, landlocked country like 
mine, with many less-than-ideal indicators, has to get 
its  development  priorities  right.  Given  our  small  size 
and  unique  circumstances,  the  lessons  Bhutan  has 
learned  are  not  universal,  but  certain  principles  may 
have relevance. It is in a spirit of humility and modesty 
that we share our experience and aspirations.
First  and  foremost,  we  believe  that  development 
must  be  guided  by  a  clear,  home-grown  vision.  Ours, 
championed by successive monarchs, identifies people’s 
welfare and happiness as its central objective. Secondly, 
it  takes  good  governance  to  unlock  the  full  potential 
of a country and its people in the pursuit of effective 
development  and  peace.  Thirdly,  within  the  broader 
development objective, the eradication of poverty must 
remain an overarching aim. Eliminating the scourge of 
poverty must therefore form the central purpose of the 
post-2015 development agenda.
Fourthly,  strong  partnerships  are  the  key 
to 
delivering  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In 
our  experience,  nurturing  and  maintaining  strong 
22/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
partnerships with our donors, based on trust and mutual 
respect, has been critical to our progress. Last but not 
least,  there  is  the  conservation  of  the  environment, 
which  is  related  to  the  issue  of  sustainability.  A 
decent  standard  of  living,  with  adequate  education, 
health  care  and  employment,  is  essential  for  people 
to  live  with  self-respect,  dignity  and  hope.  But  if  the 
most  basic  necessities  of  life,  air,  water  and  food  are 
polluted and contaminated, a decent standard of living 
is  unsustainable.  The  wanton  exploitation  of  natural 
resources, without any care for the health of our planet, 
clearly cannot go on.
In a world riven by challenges of epic proportions, 
the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  only  truly 
global  organization  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Yet 
efforts to reform its highest organ, the Security Council, 
remain deadlocked. While a consensus-based decision 
is  the  most  desirable  way  forward  in  multilateralism, 
we  cannot  allow  its  absence  to  obstruct  progress 
indefinitely, especially in the crucial area of peace and 
security.
We  are  heading  into  a  momentous  year  during 
which  the  international  community  will  craft  a  new 
development  agenda  that  will  lay  the  framework  for 
transformational change and shared prosperity. In the 
final  analysis,  no  matter  what  brilliant  concepts  we 
introduce  and  breakthroughs  we  achieve  on  paper, 
nothing  of  lasting  value  can  be  achieved  without  a 
transformation  of  mindsets  and  hearts.  It  is  there, 
perhaps, in our hearts and minds that we really need a 
paradigm shift.
In the words of His Majesty the King of Bhutan:
“This  is  a  world  that  is  shared,  not  between 
Governments  and  nations  but  among  the  peoples. 
No  nation  today  can  stand  alone  in  achievement. 
There can be no lasting national progress if it does 
not fit into a future of global peace, harmony and 
prosperity. The world must progress together or fail 
together.”
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Alva  Romanus  Baptiste,  Minister  for  External 
Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint 
Lucia.
Mr. Baptiste (Saint Lucia): Exactly one year ago, 
on 30 September 2013, I had the unsurpassed glory of 
delivering my maiden address to the General Assembly 
(see A/68/PV.21), and I used that occasion to pay homage 
to the great architects of world peace who fostered the 
birth and initial dynamics of our United Nations. In so 
doing, I used the principles set out in the Charter of the 
United  Nations  as  a  ready  compass  to  set  my  course 
as  I  navigated  the  issues  that  occupied  the  forefront 
of  our  attention  at  that  time,  under  the  captaincy  of 
former President John Ashe, who successfully piloted 
our Organization of peace through the turbulent seas of 
global uncertainty.
The  issues  that  commanded  the  attention  of  the 
international community then included global terrorism 
and  the  tensions  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Korean 
peninsula.  Those  were  compounded  by  concerns 
around  geopolitical  conflicts  and  unresolved  trade 
issues, as well as trade and macroeconomic approaches 
that favoured industrialized countries to the detriment 
of developing nations.
Given 
that 
in  nature’s 
irreversible  onward 
march,  unresolved  problems  are  brought  forward  and 
compounded  by  succeeding  problems,  this  year  the 
General Assembly has convened at a time of increased 
turmoil.  Since  our  discussions  last  September,  it  is 
undoubtedly  the  case  that  dissension  and  conflict 
have  increased  in  the  Middle  East  —  the  arena 
that  inevitably  sets  the  price  for  petroleum  and  its 
associated products, which are utilized by the peoples 
of  the  global  community,  rich  or  poor.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  benefits  expected  from  the  end  of  the  Cold 
War, with the potential for normalizing relations on the 
European continent and in lands and regions far distant 
from  Europe,  now  seem  to  be  doubtful  of  fulfilment, 
as  signs,  tensions  and  pressures  once  associated  with 
the  Cold  War  are  evolving,  bringing  about  renewed 
concerns for the international community as a whole.
When such tremors emerge, it is much harder for 
small States like ours to get the attention of the major 
Powers  with  regard  to  the  evaluation  and  discussion 
of  our  own  issues  and  objectives.  Those  can  be 
successfully resolved only if the dominant members of 
the international community can relate to them, without 
the positions and tensions that emphasize allegiance on 
the  part  of  small  Powers  to  this  or  that  side.  That  is 
why we, from our small corner of the globe, venture to 
express the view, in this most significant of international 
forums,  that  the  tensions  and  the  tendencies  towards 
war now emerging should be subordinated to the search 
for solutions in which the principles and objectives of 
the  Organization,  particularly  its  preference  for  the 
negotiated  resolution  of  conflicts,  are  pursued  as  far 
as  practicable.  The  escalating  conflicts  have  negative 
14-55200
23/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
effects  on  the  access  of  small  States  to  the  attention 
of larger Powers, and therefore they retard the positive 
contribution of the international community to our own 
concerns.
In  that  connection,  we  have  observed,  with  a 
certain  disquiet,  tendencies  in  Europe  that  indicate  a 
possible resumption of the Cold War on that continent. 
We  believe  that  that  can  only  be  disadvantageous  to 
small  countries  like  ours,  because  in  forums  such  as 
this we tend to find a return to demands for automatic 
commitment to one side or the other. As a small country, 
we have called for negotiations to prevail in the pursuit 
of the rearrangement of continental European relations, 
following  the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  the 
Warsaw Pact. Despite being a small country far away 
from  the  situation  in  Europe,  we  have  long  had,  and 
continue  to  have,  an  integral  relationship  with  that 
continent. It is particularly on that basis that we call for 
diplomacy to prevail, and we have been gratified to see 
recent signs indicating that that is likely to be the path 
pursued on the European continent.
We  are  relieved  to  see  that  the  contentions  in  the 
Middle  East,  specifically  in  respect  of  the  Palestine 
issue, have returned to the negotiating table. That is in 
concert with earlier developments relating to contentions 
between  the  NATO  Powers  and  Iran,  as  the  various 
parties were able to adopt postures of mutual discussion 
and engagement. That has led recently to what seems to 
be jointly negotiated stances to the extremely complex 
situation in Syria and to the emergence of the so-called 
Islamic  State,  which  has  been  spreading  disorder  and 
contention in the wider Middle East.
From our perspective, we can only express the wish 
that  negotiations  and  cooperation  among  the  larger 
Powers  and  between  themselves  and  other  Middle 
East countries continue, even as some members of the 
international community felt it necessary to resort to the 
use of force in the area. We reaffirm, even in the midst 
of great global complexity, our country’s commitment 
to the peaceful resolution of disputes.
While  many  developments  in  our  world  hold  the 
seeds of our region’s continued marginalization, we also 
want to accentuate the more positive trends emerging 
in the international community that are leading to the 
creation  of  space  in  our  global  arena.  Consequently, 
Saint  Lucia  is  encouraged  by  the  possibility  of 
enhanced 
in  decision-making  being 
permitted to members of the international community 
via the emergence of large, developing States in such a 
flexibility 
manner that they are now characterized as increasingly 
significant  actors  in  decision-making  relating  to  the 
resolution of global issues.
When I addressed the Assembly last year, I referred 
to  the  emergence  of  institutions  such  as  the  Union 
of  South  American  Nations,  which  includes  some 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
and to the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our 
America  — Peoples’ Trade Agreement (ALBA). They 
have opened up opportunities for assisting our countries 
to meet the Millennium Development Goals, to which 
we are all committed.
Saint  Lucia  reiterates  its  appreciation  for  the 
work  of  ALBA,  an  institution  committed  to  assisting 
countries  without  requiring  ideological  commitment 
to this or that position but recognizing the priority of 
economic  and  social  development  and  preferring  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes above all other concerns. 
In  consonance  with  that  posture,  we  commend  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for its contribution to 
the Ebola eradication budget, and Cuba for its dispatch 
of  156  doctors  to  West  Africa  to  assist  in  the  fight 
against the deadly Ebola virus.
Saint  Lucia  welcomes  the  initiative  by  Brazil, 
India,  China  and  South  Africa,  along  with  Russia,  to 
extend  and  deepen  the  assistance  available  to  other 
developing  countries,  thereby  widening  the  scope 
for  their  advancement  towards  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Specifically, 
we  would  mention  the  establishment  of  the  New 
Development Bank, which further facilitates the efforts 
of  developing  countries  for  economic  reconstruction. 
The establishment of the World Trade Organization and 
the single-minded immediacy with which it has pursued 
international  trade  liberalization  have  threatened  the 
very  foundations  of  our  economies,  particularly  in 
agriculture,  which  has  suffered  sudden  and  certain 
destruction.  From  our  perspective,  therefore,  another 
dimension has been added to the efforts of small States 
such  as  Saint  Lucia  to  navigate  the  consequences  of 
sudden 
liberalization  and 
globalization.
international  economic 
In that context of the emergence of new balances of 
economic and political power and new flexibilities in 
the use of diplomacy, including within our hemisphere, 
Saint Lucia once again reiterates its plea for the removal 
of the blockade imposed against the Republic of Cuba. 
More specifically, my Government calls for the removal 
24/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
of Cuba from the so-called terrorist watch-list. That is a 
residual effect of the Cold War, which is over.
Given  the  scourge  of  the  traffic  in  narcotics  in 
particular,  we  call  for  further  cooperation  among  all 
countries in the hemisphere and a setting aside of the old 
Cold War postures as necessary conditions for balanced 
development  and  peace.  A  specific  example  of  where 
that applies relates to our efforts in pursuing collective 
arrangements  and  unimpeded  cooperation  against 
the menace of the movement of narcotics through the 
Caribbean Sea and their decimating march across the 
moral,  social  and  economic  fabric  of  our  region.  The 
drug  barons  make  no  ideological  distinctions  among 
countries  as  they  continue  to  exploit  weaknesses 
deriving from outmoded political stances that impede 
effective  regional  cooperation.  As  we  all  know,  those 
pursuing  the  sale  of  narcotics  make  special  efforts 
to  attract  the  youth  of  our  countries,  compromising 
the  essential  resource  base  for  our  future  economic 
development and social stability.
Once  again,  I  draw  the  attention  of  this  body 
to  Saint  Lucia’s  firm  and  consistent  belief  that  the 
historical  anomalies  of  the  Cold  War  still  in  our 
international  system  should  not  be  allowed  to  inhibit 
the contribution of countries desirous of participating 
in,  and  enhancing,  the  advancement  of  developing 
countries simply because there are issues surrounding 
their particular status.
In that connection I would refer, as I did on behalf 
of  the  Government  of  Saint  Lucia  last  year,  to  the 
participation of Taiwan in international organizations, 
particularly those that focus on technical arrangements 
or  the  resolution  of  important  issues  that  are  of 
value  to  the  international  system  as  a  whole  or  to  its 
member  States.  My  country  again  makes  a  plea  for 
fuller  participation  by  Taiwan,  particularly  in  the 
World Health Organization and the International Civil 
Aviation  Organization.  Taiwan  has  the  experience 
of  engaging  in  a  technological  revolution  that  has 
enhanced its economic development and the welfare of 
its people, and in many respects that State has become 
a viable economic development model for small States. 
Hence  we  believe  that  the  Government  and  people  of 
Taiwan have much to offer developing countries, and so 
we would support any institutional initiative that would 
allow that country to make a contribution through those 
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  that  are  devoted 
to  solutions  to  issues  of  technological,  economic  and 
social development.
I  shall  now  turn  to  the  theme  of  this  year’s 
General  Assembly,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”, 
to  navigate  two  issues  of  paramount  importance  to 
Saint  Lucia  as  a  small  island  developing  State.  At 
this juncture, I must congratulate the President of the 
Assembly  and  his  country,  Uganda,  on  this  theme, 
which  is  charged  with  invaluable  significance  for 
my  region  and  for  Africa,  as  we  are  challenged  in 
building  an  impregnable  substratum  of  economic  and 
technological  self-determination  to  successfully  deal 
with the development challenges of our times.
First, speaking of Africa and the Caribbean region 
in  that  context,  I  come  to  a  matter  of  great  historical 
and contemporary concern to the people of Saint Lucia 
and  the  Caribbean  Community  as  a  whole,  which  I 
adumbrated in my address to this body last year. It is 
the  issue  of  the  need  for  the  metropolitan  Powers  to 
come to terms with the manner in which the Caribbean 
States were historically created and organized and the 
consequences of that for their standing and situation in 
today’s world. Specifically, at their meeting in July 2014, 
the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community 
decided that a case for reparations should be elaborated 
beyond  the  relationship  between  ourselves  and  the 
relevant  European  Governments  and  that  Caribbean 
States  should,  in  seeking  support  for  that  objective, 
“advance the reparations case during the sitting of the 
United Nations General Assembly in 2014”.
I  carry  out  that  mandate  now  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Saint  Lucia,  who,  in 
concordance  with  the  peoples  of  other  CARICOM 
member  States,  seek  the  award  of  reparations  as  a 
specific  way  in  which  those  who  in  centuries  past 
held  the  reins  of  power  without  accountability  can 
now  in  recompense  make  a  specific  contribution  to 
the  nation-building  programmes  of  our  Governments 
beyond existing commitments. In that regard, we make 
a case for reparations as a matter of principle.
Secondly,  Saint  Lucia  has  welcomed 
the 
deliberations of the third International Conference on 
Small Island Developing States, held in Samoa earlier 
this month, and the efforts made in that regard by the 
United Nations. The recent Samoa Pathway conclusions 
have 
the  persistent  and  peculiar 
problems  inhibiting  the  development  of  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS).  In  the  words  of  the  recent 
SIDS  declaration,  there  is  an  insistence  that  “small 
island  developing  States  remain  a  special  case  for 
re-emphasized 
14-55200
25/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
sustainable development”, without which “success will 
remain  difficult”.  As  the  Commonwealth  Secretariat 
recently pointed out, research has shown that countries 
most  exposed  to  preference  loss  are  mainly  SIDS, 
such as Saint Lucia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, 
Jamaica, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. From 
our regional point of view, the Caribbean Community’s 
continental  States  of  Belize  and  Guyana  are  included 
in that list.
The  Commonwealth  Secretariat  has  also  shown 
that,  while  the  compound  annual  growth  rate  of  per 
capita  income  of  SIDS  between  1970  and  2000  was 
0.73  per  cent,  that  of  the  world  economy  was  almost 
three  times  higher,  at  2.07  per  cent;  and  that,  in  the 
period  between  2002  and  2012,  SIDS  had  one  of  the 
lowest compound annual growth rates, at 1.23 per cent, 
as compared to 4.96 per cent for developing countries, 
4  per  cent  for  least  developed  countries  and  3.23  per 
cent for sub-Saharan Africa.
The  Saint  Lucia  Government  wants 
the 
recommendations of the Samoa Conference to be given 
the  international  attention  that  they  deserve.  That  is 
critical, considering the fact that along with the specific 
problems  that  have  been  identified  as  continuing  to 
inhibit  sustainable  development,  the  instability  of  the 
present  international  economic  system  only  serves  to 
aggravate  the  precarious  position  of  small  States.  In 
that connection, we stress, as we did when addressing 
the  Assembly  last  year,  the  importance  of  assistance 
arrangements,  including  further  development  of  the 
Adaptation  Fund  so  that  our  countries  can  cope  with 
the negative effects of sea level rise.
In  view  of  Saint  Lucia’s  urgent  requirements, 
we  also  emphasize  assistance  for  the  construction  of 
facilities that can protect our countries against untimely 
natural  disasters  due  to  climate  change.  Losses  from 
disasters  in  SIDS  continue  unabated  and  continue  to 
outstrip  our  capacity  to  cope.  Over  the  past  decade, 
many SIDS have lost considerable momentum in their 
development progress by having to contend with post-
disaster rehabilitation and reconstruction costs, which 
invariably have brought increased debt. The Caribbean 
has  been  a  particular  victim  of  those  events  since  I 
spoke  here  last  year,  and  we  hope  that  following  the 
recent  Samoa  Conference,  a  certain  urgency  will  be 
attached to the matter.
Saint Lucia would like to reiterate a few points.
First, we emphasize the persistent use of diplomacy 
as  a  prime  instrument  for  the  pursuit  of  normalized 
relations among all States.
Second, the rapidly changing nature of international 
relations  mandates  the  need  to  subject  the  United 
Nations  system  to  new  levels  of  critical  examination, 
with the central objective of strengthening the internal 
machinery of our Organization and reforming it to truly 
reflect today’s geopolitical reality.
Third, we must as an international community do 
all within our power to ensure that the Cold War does 
not  resume  even  though  the  post-Cold  War  dividends 
have not yet materialized for much of humankind. Now 
is an excellent time to divest ourselves of any residual 
effects of the Cold War, such as the blockade imposed 
on our sister island of Cuba and to remove Cuba from 
the so-called terrorist watch list.
Fourth, we make a plea for reparations as a matter 
of principle.
Fifth, we must take advantage of new, meaningful 
opportunities  for  cooperation  and  partnership,  not 
only  with  traditional  partners  but  also,  setting  aside 
long-standing geopolitical contentions, with a range of 
non-traditional partners, such as Taiwan.
Sixth, developed countries should not pursue trade 
and macroeconomic approaches that are detrimental to 
the well-being of small island developing States.
Seventh,  we  must  determine  a  clear  and  effective 
strategy by which SIDS can translate the outcomes of 
the Samoa Conference into concrete results — results 
that  build  on  existing  international  commitments  and 
include  the  means  of  implementation  to  support  the 
national  and  regional  development  efforts  of  SIDS. 
Without that, the Samoa Conference could be construed, 
in the words of the late Martin Luther King, Jr., “as a 
meaningless drama on the stage of history ... shrouded 
with the ugly garments of shame”.
Eighth, Saint Lucia stands for freedom, democracy, 
non-discrimination,  sustainable  development,  poverty 
eradication  and  special  and  differential  treatment  for 
SIDS,  all  of  which  are  important  ingredients  of  our 
most  precious  pursuits  and  aspirations:  peace  and 
prosperity  for  our  people,  the  recovery  and  resilience 
of  our  Caribbean  region  and  stability  and  security  in 
our world.
26/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Finally, it is fitting and opportune that as we ponder 
the  possibilities  of  “Delivering  on  and  implementing 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”, 
we  deliberate  carefully  on  the  opportunities  and 
alternatives  to  the  current  world  order.  We  must  look 
to our past to understand our present, and we must plan 
our  future  by  analysing  our  present  and  applying  the 
lessons of our past. It is in that connection that I feel 
compelled to conclude by inviting careful consideration 
of  the  words  of  the  late  United  States  President 
Woodrow  Wilson,  who  asserted  America’s  historical 
leadership and commitment to international democracy 
and  freedom  in  these  words:  “We  shall  fight  ...  for  a 
universal dominion of right by such a concert of free 
peoples as shall bring peace and safety to all nations”.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Rimbink Pato, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Trade 
and  Immigration  of  the  Independent  State  of  Papua 
New Guinea.
Mr.  Pato  (Papua  New  Guinea):  Allow  me,  on 
behalf  of  the  Government  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  to 
congratulate Mr. Sam Kutesa on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session. 
Papua New Guinea supports his leadership as we work 
with him on the ambitious theme of “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute 
to  Ambassador  John  Ashe  for  his  strong  leadership 
in  setting  the  stage  for  enhancing  the  sustainable 
development  agenda  of  Member  States,  especially 
of  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS).  We  also 
commend the Secretary-General for his leadership and 
untiring commitment to advancing the cause of global 
peace  and  security  to  enhance  the  multidimensional 
global development agenda.
It has been a long and sometimes hard road for the 
people  of  Fiji  over  the  past  eight  years.  We  therefore 
warmly congratulate the people of Fiji for their return 
to  constitutional  and  democratic  rule  following  their 
general elections this year. We welcome the return of 
Fiji  to  the  Commonwealth  and  to  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum. In wishing the people of Fiji well, Papua New 
Guinea will continue to stand ready to assist them, as 
it has done in the past, along with other major Pacific 
partners, in areas where such assistance can be effective 
as Fiji embarks on its new path forward.
The recent third International Conference on Small 
Island  Developing  States,  held  in  Samoa,  was  a  great 
success. We commend the adoption of the Small Island 
Developing  States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action/
Samoa  Pathway,  which  reiterated 
the  sustainable 
development  priorities  of  SIDS,  which  has  been 
affirmed by the international community.
But the impacts of climate change continue to pose 
a  serious  challenge  to  the  sustainable  development 
of  SIDS.  The  full  range  of  damaging  events  —  such 
as  rising  sea  levels,  coastal  erosion,  salinization  of 
the  fresh  water  table,  prolonged  and  severe  droughts, 
flooding  and  other  extreme  weather  and  loss  of  and 
damage  to  vital  infrastructure  —  remains  a  constant 
concern for SIDS. Many SIDS, especially in the Pacific, 
have reached a tipping point. While the right thing for 
us  to  do  is  to  respond  to  the  challenges  by  working 
smarter and harder to improve the livelihoods of people 
at risk, the bigger and advanced countries of the world 
must not only do likewise; they must also redouble their 
efforts in partnering with us.
As  part  of  our  support  to  Pacific  SIDS,  Papua 
New  Guinea  has  launched  the  Pacific  Development 
Assistance  Programme,  which  is  aimed  at  assisting 
Pacific  SIDS  in  critical  areas  of  development  such  as 
education,  health,  capacity-building,  climate  change 
and  the  reconstruction  of  important  infrastructure 
after  natural  disasters.  We  reiterate  our  call  on  the 
international community, including the United Nations, 
to work together with SIDS in the spirit of genuine and 
durable partnership.
last  week. 
We commend the Secretary-General for convening 
the  successful  Climate  Summit 
In 
supporting the outcomes, we must build on the political 
momentum  generated  as  we  move  towards  Lima  this 
year  and,  importantly,  towards  Paris  in  2015,  where 
the  international  community  must  conclude  a  legally 
binding  agreement  in  order  for  us  to  collectively 
address the adverse impacts of climate change.
The 
international  community 
stands  at  an 
important  crossroads.  The  imminent  deadline  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the 
transition  to  the  post-2015  development  agenda  have 
rightly  become  the  centre  stage  of  the  global  agenda. 
We  support  a  people-centered  and  transformative 
post-2015  development  agenda  underpinned  by  global 
partnerships 
that  support  national  ownership  of 
sustainable development.
We welcome the adoption by the General Assembly, 
by resolution 68/309, of the report of the Open Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals (A/68/970), 
14-55200
27/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
which recommended 17 goals. We must chart a realistic 
path, with goals that are attainable given the necessary 
means of implementation. We also commend the work 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing,  which  is  critical 
to  the  successful  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
In that respect, the Pacific island developing States 
note  with  appreciation  the  inclusion  of  the  important 
proposed  stand-alone  goals  on  oceans  and  seas, 
sustainable  energy  and  climate  change.  Along  with 
the other proposed goals, those goals should form the 
basis for the intergovernmental negotiations that are to 
take place. Papua New Guinea will participate in those 
negotiations.
My Government remains fully committed to those 
efforts  because  we  have  experienced  the  galvanizing 
impact of the MDGs, which has helped us take national 
ownership  and  develop  a  home-grown  sustainable 
development  paradigm.  While  my  country’s  MDG 
scorecard remains a work in progress, my Government 
has  undertaken  various  initiatives  to  redress  the 
situation. We have retailored the MDGs to our national 
priorities,  with  88  indicators  connecting  them  to  our 
national development plans.
A  recent  report  by  the  United  Nations  country 
office on progress to achieve the MDGs was optimistic 
and positive. The report found that Papua New Guinea 
had  made  important  strides  towards  achieving  the 
MDGs, especially since the general elections in 2012. 
They  include  the  bold  decision  to  run  budget  deficits 
until  2017,  which,  the  report  notes,  has  enabled  the 
nation to invest in essential areas.
My  Government  is  implementing  a  policy  of  free 
education  for  all  primary-school  children,  resulting 
in  an  increase  in  school  enrolments  by  as  much  as 
80  per  cent  in  some  areas.  We  now  have  around 
2  million  children  in  schools.  In  the  health  sector, 
we  are  witnessing  a  reduction  of  rates  in  early  child 
and maternal mortality, HIV/AIDS, malaria and other 
communicable  diseases.  More  mothers  and  children 
are getting access to health care as a result of our free 
health-care  policy.  Our  infrastructure  development 
programme is improving Papua New Guinea’s business 
environment and creating opportunities for our people 
to participate meaningfully in national development.
A  key  cornerstone  of  our  development  road  map 
is  a  people-centred  focus  on  population  management 
and stabilization. It entails empowering individuals to 
take leadership and full responsibility to improve their 
livelihoods through appropriate measures. Our economy 
has grown over the last decade at an average rate of 6 to 
8 per cent per annum, and is projected to reach 20 per 
cent in 2015. That growth is transforming our country, 
especially with revenue from the completion of our first 
liquefied natural gas project and its exports.
This  is  a  new  economic  and  development  age  for 
our  economy.  The  unprecedented  and  transformative 
economic  progress  will  coincide  with  the  pursuit  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  are  clearly 
focused on actively participating in the process and in 
its implementation at the national and regional levels. 
Our Government is fully committed to ensuring that we 
manage  the  transformation  carefully  and  effectively. 
Our challenge is to ensure that the growth delivers the 
maximum benefit to our citizens.
Recently, our Government launched a $100 million 
initiative with our leading national bank, the Bank of 
the South Pacific, to make home loans more affordable 
for  our  citizens.  We  are  also  facilitating  financial 
inclusion services for our people. We are grateful to our 
development  partners,  including  the  United  Nations, 
Australia, New Zealand, the United States, Japan, China 
and  the  European  Union.  My  Government  has  helped 
with the capital for the first national women’s bank and 
for microcredit schemes to help our people at the grass-
roots level become owners and drivers of their future 
well-being. In addition, we are giving priority to small 
and medium enterprises to drive national development.
Furthermore,  my  Government  is  developing  a 
national statistics development strategy to provide a road 
map for Papua New Guinea to continually improve and 
update the collection and management of its statistical 
information  in  order  to  improve  decision-making. 
That  includes  embarking  on  a  national  biometric 
identification  card  system  to  record  and  maintain  the 
population information of our citizens.
Despite our economic growth, social issues remain 
a  challenge.  My  Government  values  our  women  and 
girls,  who  constitute  half  of  our  population,  as  equal 
development partners. We are making sure that gender 
empowerment and equality continue to be a cornerstone 
of  our  responsible  sustainable  development.  We 
therefore support the work of UN-Women.
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  my 
funding  of 
Government  has  committed 
record 
28/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
$10 million this year for various initiatives, including 
partnering  with  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
to  make  available  40,000  contraceptive  implants  as 
important  intervention  measures  for  the  health  of  our 
women  and  girls  of  child-bearing  age.  That  will  be 
scaled  up  to  $20  million  by  2015.  My  Government, 
in  partnership  with  our  development  partners,  is  also 
investing  in  upgrading  vital  midwifery  skills,  along 
with enhancing our health referral systems to address 
complicated pregnancies. As a member of the Executive 
Board of UNICEF, we will promote and participate in 
the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child.
My Government welcomes and pledges our support 
for  the  President’s  timely  agenda  for  strengthening 
international  peace  and  security.  As  a  responsible 
Member  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  committed 
to  fostering  global  peace  and  security.  As  such,  my 
country  is  deploying  a  modest  level  of  troops  to  the 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  the  Sudan 
and South Sudan. As our capacity grows, we intend to 
contribute more.
We  are  concerned  about  the  increasing  conflicts 
and  tensions  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  particularly 
those  involving  non-State  actors.  An  unacceptable 
heavy  toll  of  destruction  is  exacted  upon  millions  of 
innocent  children,  women  and  men,  often  uprooted 
from  their  homes,  dislocated  and  downtrodden  and 
their  dignity  humiliated.  We  must  rebuke  and  unite 
against the rising tide of intolerance, bigotry and hatred 
under various banners.
in 
all 
again 
condemn 
We 
terrorism 
its 
manifestations.  We  join  the  international  community 
to combat that global threat. Our support for Security 
Council resolution 2178 (2014) against terrorism, which 
was recently adopted, is a reaffirmation that inhuman 
atrocities committed cannot and should not be condoned 
by the international community. Those responsible for 
such inhuman atrocities must be held accountable.
We  are  also  concerned  by  the  rising  tensions 
between  and  within  certain  countries  and 
the 
re-emergence  of  the  ugly  head  of  another  potential 
arms  race.  The  world  does  not  need  that;  rather,  we 
must recommit our efforts for global disarmament that 
supports  a  transformative  development  agenda  that 
brings  long-lasting  improvement  in  the  livelihoods  of 
people everywhere.
The Ebola crisis is a concern that is not limited just 
to West Africa. It is an international crisis, one which 
we, the international community, must address together 
as we have done with severe acute respiratory syndrome 
and  HIV/AIDS.  Those  diseases  and  pandemics  do 
not  recognize  national  sovereign  borders.  Like  other 
countries,  Papua  New  Guinea  has  taken  appropriate 
measures to address the potential spread of Ebola.
We  note  with  concern  that  progress  in  the  Third 
International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism 
has  been  slow.  We  need  to  strengthen  efforts  to 
complete  that  process.  Papua  New  Guinea  urges  the 
implementation  of  the  report  and  conclusions  of  the 
United Nations visiting mission to New Caledonia this 
year, and thereby calls on the United Nations and the 
international community, particularly the administering 
Power, to support the process of decolonization under 
the  Noumea  Accord.  The  Summit  of  the  Melanesian 
Spearhead  Group  in  June  2013  supported  through 
a  declaration  the  efforts  of  the  Front  de  libération 
nationale kanak et socialiste in New Caledonia.
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Papua  New  Guinea  strongly  believes  that  the 
international  community  is  a  better,  more  secure  and 
harmonious  place  because  of  the  United  Nations. 
Certainly there are areas in the United Nations where 
reform  is  required,  as  is  the  case  with  any  large 
organization.  We  need  to  recommit  ourselves  to  the 
areas where the Organization has been successful, and 
in other areas we need to build adequate systems. Our 
ultimate objective must be to promote a more effective, 
more  accountable,  more  responsive  and  more  caring 
United Nations — a United Nations capable of meeting 
the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Papua New Guinea therefore shares the President’s 
intention to further reform, rejuvenate and strengthen 
the Security Council to allow for equitable geographic 
representation. Regrettably, that important organ does 
not reflect today’s geopolitical realities. We again join 
many other Member States in calling for the reform of 
the Security Council in both categories of membership.
At  this  time  next  year  we  will  be  celebrating 
40 years of nation-building in Papua New Guinea, just 
as  the  United  Natons  commemorates  its  seventieth 
anniversary. We continue to be a proud, united country 
of  many  diverse  cultures  and  peoples  speaking  more 
than 800 languages. We are also rapidly transforming 
14-55200
29/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
our traditional way of life to that of a modern country 
in just one generation.
In conclusion, I recommit my country to the ideals 
of the Charter of the United Nations and pledge to work 
closely with all other Member States to collaborate on 
solutions to the many issues we all face as humankind.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Leonardo  Arizaga,  Vice-Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and Political Integration of Ecuador.
Mr.  Arizaga  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  What 
an  honour  it  is  to  be  at  the  General  Assembly  and  to 
represent  Ecuador  and  our  citizens’  revolution.  I 
would  like  to  begin  by  congratulating  President  Sam 
Kutesa  on  his  election  to  lead  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  want  him  to  know  that  he 
will have the full support of the delegation of Ecuador 
during his tenure. Similarly, I want to express Ecuador’s 
appreciation and gratitude to our brother John Ashe for 
his work at the head of the General Assembly. I wish 
to  convey  the  brotherly  greetings  and  solidarity  of 
President Rafael Correa, Minister Ricardo Patiño and 
the citizens’ revolution.
Four  years  ago 
today,  Ecuador  suffered  an 
attempted  coup  d’état  in  which  there  was  an  attempt 
against the life of the President of the Republic, Rafael 
Correa Delgado. Four years ago, democracy in Ecuador 
was  threatened,  but  it  prevailed.  The  international 
community’s condemnation was immediate. Countries, 
particularly those in the region, and the United Nations 
and  other  international  organizations  supported  the 
millions  of  Ecuadorians  who  took  to  the  streets  and 
squares of my country, condemning the use of violence, 
rejecting  the  coup  d’état,  channelling  the  aspirations 
of  all  sectors  of  the  population  and  consolidating 
democracy in my country.
like 
I  would 
to  convey  my  appreciation 
to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  immediately 
made  statements  bringing  that  issue  to  the  world’s 
attention  and  sent  a  special  mission  to  Ecuador  to 
assess  the  situation.  The  effective  work  of  Assistant 
Secretary-General  Oscar  Fernandez-Taranco  and  his 
team deserves to be remembered and appreciated.
Democracy in Ecuador was strengthened, the coup 
plotters  were  isolated  and  the  law  and  the  will  of  the 
people,  as  expressed  at  the  ballot  box,  prevailed  over 
the  interests  of  small,  but  powerful,  groups,  which 
were  then  left  behind  in  history.  On  the  night  of 
30 September 2010, all the Heads of State of the Union 
of South American Nations (UNASUR) met in Buenos 
Aires  to  support  the  Ecuadorian  Government  and 
President Rafael Correa. As a result of that meeting, the 
12  countries  of  South  America  adopted  an  additional 
protocol to the Constitutive Treaty of UNASUR, which 
added  a  democratic  clause  that  seeks  to  discourage  a 
breakdown of, or threat to, democracy in the region. In 
Ecuador and in South America we are not returning to 
the past; we cannot return to the past. The use of force 
as a means of expression and of resolving differences 
will  not  return.  That  became  clear  on  30  September 
2010. We have chosen the path of law and dialogue to 
build a better world and future for our peoples.
is 
therefore 
internationally 
The  Government  of  Ecuador  —  the  Government 
of  the  citizens’  revolution  —  has  suggested  the 
implementation  of  a  radical  change  in  the  State’s 
structures  and  its  political  and  development  model. 
Ecuador’s  position 
in 
line  with  that  reality.  “Sumak  Kawsay”,  which  in 
the  language  of  our  ancestors  means  “living  well”,  is 
built on a daily basis through a new model based on a 
socially  inclusive  and  supportive  economy,  supported 
through  a  citizen-based  democracy  and  sustained  in 
its planning. The changes made by the Government of 
the  citizens’  revolution  in  Ecuador  are  clearly  in  line 
with the Millennium Development Goals and the post-
2015 agenda and reflect the values encapsulated in the 
Human Development Index of the United Nations. Let 
me  briefly  mention  some  of  the  achievements  of  the 
citizens’ revolution over the past seven and a half years.
Approximately  1,136,000  Ecuadorians  —  10  per 
cent of the population — have been lifted out of poverty. 
We reduced the rate of unemployment to 4.9 per cent in 
2013,  which  is  the  lowest  in  Latin  America.  We  have 
maintained  a  policy  of  wage  increases,  and  Ecuador 
now has the highest rates in real values   in the region. 
Moreover,  Ecuador  is  the  leader  in  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean  in  reducing  inequality,  which  is  a 
major  problem  afflicting  our  region.  The  country’s 
competitiveness is no longer based on labour scarcity or 
exploitation, but rather on public investment in roads, 
ports, airports, telecommunications, power generation 
and  systems  of  justice  and  security  for  our  citizens. 
Public  investment  in  Ecuador  is  the  highest  in  the 
continent, at 15 per cent of our gross domestic product 
(GDP)  in  2013  —  three  times  the  Latin  American 
average.  Thanks  to  that  effort,  we  have  moved  up 
15 places in terms of our competitiveness, according to 
the World Economic Forum.
30/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
We  have  universal  basic  education,  which  fulfils 
one of the 2015 Millennium Development Goals. Child 
and  youth  labour  have  been  substantially  reduced. 
There are 82 public schools that have been registered 
with the International Baccalaureate Organization, and 
it is expected that, by 2017, 500 schools will offer the 
International Baccalaureate. Thanks to the educational 
changes under way in Ecuador, 179,290 students have 
moved from the private education system to the public 
education system. In other words, in the past two years, 
19 per cent of students left private schools to study in 
State  schools.  As  I  said,  we  are  experiencing  a  true 
revolution in education.
Ecuador has invested some 2 per cent of our GDP 
in  higher  education,  which  is  more  than  double  the 
average  for  Latin  America.  In  the  seven  and  a  half 
years it has been in office, the Government of Ecuador 
has  funded  8,000  scholars  abroad,  most  of  whom  are 
enrolled  in  masters  and  doctoral  programmes  at  the 
best  universities  in  the  world.  That  represents  the 
largest investment in scholarships in terms of GDP in 
Latin America.
I  have  mentioned  all  those  achievements  of  our 
citizens’  revolution  —  and  many  more  exist,  but  I 
cannot mention them owing to a lack of time — because 
those  achievements  were  at  stake  on  30  September 
2010, four years ago today. Those advances were made 
possible because democracy prevailed and because the 
Government of Ecuador continues to work for the well-
being of its people.
The most important challenge facing the Ecuadorian 
State, along with the fight against poverty, is changing 
its  economy,  and  that  means  changing  the  production 
matrix of our country. To ensure sustainability in our 
domestic  and  production  model,  we  are  committed  to 
boosting our productive development, trade flows and 
non-speculative  foreign  direct  investment  in  target 
sectors, such as technology transfers and the financing 
of  strategic  projects.  The  fundamental  objective 
of  Ecuador’s  foreign  policy  is  therefore  to  assist  in 
promoting  the  internal  development  of  the  country, 
balancing  that  with  its  international  relations.  That 
means  expanding  its  political,  trade,  economic  and 
social networks with an alternative and complementary 
view  of  the  integration  scheme  that  the  country  has 
traditionally had at the global level.
Ecuador  reiterates  its  concern  with  regard  to 
the  challenge  of  global  warming.  As  we  change  our 
production and energy model, my country is promoting 
the generation of renewable energy sources with fewer 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  into  the  atmosphere,  the 
mass use of induction cookers and the optimization of 
the  use  of  raw  materials,  reducing  waste  as  much  as 
possible. However, the ability of developing countries 
to  meet  the  goals  of  a  post-2015  development  agenda 
is  directly  proportionate 
to  developed  countries’ 
continuing provision of resources aimed at the timely 
implementation  of  plans  and  projects  for  addressing 
natural disasters caused by weather events exacerbated 
by human activity, based on the principle of common 
but differentiated responsibilities.
My  country  was  grateful  for 
the  Secretary-
General’s  invitation  to  the  Climate  Summit  held  here 
on  23  September.  We  are  pleased  with  the  decisions 
some developed countries have made on their national 
plans  for  mitigating  and  adapting  to  climate  change, 
particularly  the  announcement  by  some,  including 
France, that they would be increasing the capitalization 
of the Green Climate Fund. Despite those efforts, the 
Fund will not reach its target of $15 billion by the end 
of the year. We, the developing world, would like to see 
more ambitious national plans and policies on the part 
of the developed countries if the global consequences 
of this irrefutable scientific reality are to be addressed.
Ecuador’s foreign policy is now making it a priority 
to strengthen South-South relations with a view to the 
sovereign  integration  of  our  peoples  and  the  creation 
of  new  areas  for  regional  governance.  In  that  regard, 
Ecuador  is  working  to  achieve  harmonious  South 
American  and  Latin  American  integration,  to  build  a 
multipolar world and to democratize our international 
organizations, with the goal of creating a more just and 
equitable world order. We are promoting multilateralism 
and  working  on  innovative  integration  processes, 
cooperation for development and a harmonious political 
dialogue.  In  that  context,  UNASUR,  the  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  and  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC)  are  very  relevant  entities  and  are  national 
priorities in our efforts to create improved integration 
mechanisms.
Regarding  UNASUR,  I  am  pleased  to  announce 
that its new headquarters will soon open in Quito, at the 
centre of the world, the point where two hemispheres 
and the South American brotherhood meet. In January 
2015  Ecuador  will  take  over  the  rotating  chairship  of 
CELAC, with the purpose of reinvigorating the regional 
integration agenda in Latin America and the Caribbean 
14-55200
31/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
and 
furthering  our  political  cooperation,  while 
continuing to base integration on respect for pluralism 
and  States’  diversity.  The  Government  of  Ecuador 
initiated  the  creation  of  this  integration  mechanism, 
and  it  has  been  a  major  undertaking.  CELAC  does 
not  exclude  any  Latin  American  or  Caribbean  State; 
we  have  firmly  rejected  unilateral  embargoes  and 
sanctions,  and  our  ongoing  struggle  is  about  fighting 
inequality and poverty.
We must overcome and end injustice. It is therefore 
unacceptable  that  the  United  States  of  America’s 
blockade  of  our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba  has  been 
going on for more than 50 years, and that despite the 
fact that Cuba has been supported by the Assembly for 
21 years. We also condemn Cuba’s inclusion in the list 
of countries that sponsor terrorism.
We would like to reiterate once more that we must 
call for a settlement through dialogue of the conflict over 
Argentina’s  Malvinas  Islands.  The  United  Kingdom 
should  comply  with  the  more  than  40  resolutions 
adopted by the Assembly on the subject. We also support 
Argentina in its efforts to address the pernicious effects 
of  speculative  hedge  funds.  Argentina  is  not  alone  in 
that fight, and it can count on the backing and solidarity 
of Ecuador and our entire region.
Concerning Palestine, I would like to state that on 
17 July the Government of Ecuador firmly condemned 
Israel’s  military  incursion  into  Palestinian  territory 
and  called  for  an  immediate  end  to  Israel’s  military 
operations  and  the  indiscriminate  attacks  on  the 
civilian population in the Gaza Strip. My country has 
appealed  to  the  international  community  to  shoulder 
its  responsibility  for  preventing  such  indiscriminate 
attacks  in  the  interests  of  saving  innocent  lives  and 
maintaining international peace and security. As proof 
of  our  support  for  the  Palestinian  cause,  Ecuador 
decided  to  establish  a  diplomatic  presence  there,  and 
it  is  now  up  and  running  in  Ramallah.  Meanwhile, 
just a few days ago we sent humanitarian assistance to 
Gaza, and we will shortly send a second humanitarian 
assistance  convoy  there  for  the  use  of  the  Palestinian 
national authorities.
In  2016  Ecuador  will  host 
the  Africa-South 
America Summit, a responsibility requiring considerable 
preparation  and  providing  an  opportunity  to  draw 
up  joint  policies  that  unite  us  with  our  African 
brothers. The time has come to further strengthen the 
relationship  between  Africa  and  Latin  America,  and 
Ecuador has therefore decided to open new embassies 
in Algeria, Nigeria and Angola in the near future. We 
will also strengthen our existing embassies in Africa, 
and we will be opening additional diplomatic missions 
there  in  a  second  phase.  We  intend  to  work  with  our 
African  brothers  for  our  mutual  benefit  and  shared 
opportunities.
For  Ecuador,  it  is  a  source  of  pride  and  a  heavy 
responsibility  to  be  hosting  the  forthcoming  third 
United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable 
Urban Development, Habitat III, in 2016. Thus in one 
year,  2016,  we  will  host  the  meetings  of  the  CELAC 
Heads of State, the Africa-South America Summit and 
Habitat III.
For over a year, we have undertaken intensive work 
to  address  the  main  issues  stemming  from  the  rapid 
urban growth that we have seen in our countries, issues 
that were raised at the most recent World Urban Forum, 
last April in Medellín, Colombia. We hope to continue 
to generate synergies in order to move towards a new 
global  agenda  for  sustainable  urban  development  that 
we will take up at Habitat III.
The Government of Ecuador, in its efforts to build 
a just and equitable society, has sought in recent years 
to  implement  a  system  of  rights  in  terms  of  habitat 
and  urban  development.  The  principle  guiding  its 
action — “the right to the city” — is understood not as 
a unitary right, but as a set of interrelated rights linked 
to the land. Policies for habitat, human settlements and 
housing  are  expressions  of  the  State’s  aspiration  to 
build, as I mentioned, a society of living well, through 
public regulation in line with the concept that Ecuador 
promotes,  namely,  harmony  with  nature.  Ecuador 
is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  sets  forth  in  its 
Constitution “the right to nature”.
With  respect  to  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
system, Ecuador has actively and constructively made 
profound  and  comprehensive  proposals  for  change 
in  some  international  organizations,  with  a  view  to 
making them more efficient, democratic, participatory 
and  inclusive.  We  aspire  to  their  universalization  and 
transparency,  as  well  as  to  increased  and  equitable 
representation, consultation and decision-making on the 
part of all States, especially the developing countries. 
Consistent  with  that,  the  Government  of  Ecuador  has 
advocated the reform of the global governance system, 
in order to democratize decision-making and improve 
transparency  in  the  management  of  all  multilateral 
organizations. Many Members of this Organization join 
us in that approach.
32/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Ecuador  proposes  marking  a  turning  point  with 
respect to the United Nations system, as with its current 
structure it is not addressing the international tensions 
and  disputes  or  the  troubled  international  situation. 
Ecuador  seeks  to  democratize  the  Security  Council, 
which  should  be  composed  of  clusters,  in  order  to 
find a balance, ensure representativity and protect the 
principle  of  the  equality  of  States.  Only  in  that  way 
can the Council play its role in maintaining peace and 
international security.
We are at the threshold of the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations. We have a historical obligation 
to  modernize  and  democratize 
the  Organization, 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
such  decision-making  as  the  election  of  judges  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  election  of  the 
Secretary-General.
At  present,  we  are  concerned  that,  despite  the 
progress made in 2014, a great many threats continue 
to loom over humankind. Situations of armed conflict, 
humanitarian  crises,  violations  of  human 
rights 
and  breaches  of  international  law  threaten  entire 
populations,  demanding  an  urgent  response  from  the 
international community. The Government of Ecuador 
has  expressed  its  conviction  regarding  the  need  to 
respect  international  law  and  reach  negotiated  and 
peaceful  solutions.  It  has  totally  rejected  all  forms 
of  interference  and  unilateral  action  that  violate  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, trample 
on human rights or disregard international law. We also 
strongly condemn all terrorist acts, whether perpetrated 
by irregular groups or in the name of a State. Ecuador 
has condemned the actions of the Islamic State in both 
Iraq and Syria.
Those  global  challenges  must  be  dealt  with  by 
the  United  Nations,  as  the  most  appropriate  forum  to 
address and respond to the difficult situations that we 
are facing. It will surely have the support and solidarity 
of all Member States.
Let us endeavour to ensure that international law is 
the standard that governs our actions. A few months ago, 
in this very Hall, Member States adopted a resolution 
which called for respect for the right to privacy in the 
digital  age  (resolution  68/167).  The  same  label  has 
been  applied  to  another  abuse —  global  surveillance. 
Once  again  we  are  in  a  situation  where  we  are  being 
monitored  and  spied  on.  Ecuador,  along  with  several 
other  countries,  co-sponsored  a  draft  resolution  put 
forward by Germany and Brazil and, with the adoption 
of  that  legal  instrument,  a  new  process  for  defining 
human rights — the right to privacy — was initiated. 
The  resolution,  adopted  by  consensus,  constitutes  a 
rejection of an abusive posture. The abuse was brought 
to our attention by an Australian citizen who felt that 
the  world  should  know  what  was  being  done  with 
sovereignty.
The  decision  of  that  Australian  citizen  led  to 
the  harshest  persecution,  which  caused  him  to  seek 
protection for his life in the light of the real threats he 
had received. I am referring to Julian Assange, who is 
now associated with Ecuador because, after reviewing 
the  merits  of  his  case,  we  granted  him  asylum.  Two 
years have passed in the new life of Mr. Assange, two 
years  without  freedom  of  movement,  two  years  in 
which  he  has  been  confined  to  a  small  space  waiting 
for justice. There it is again, Sir, that dream of justice.
When  asylum  is  granted,  it  is  primarily  by 
immediate  recognition  and  respect  for  a  fundamental 
human right — the right to life. What has been difficult 
is convincing the counterpart  — the United Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  —  that  in  this 
situation  the  fundamental  human  rights  of  Julian 
Assange  should  be  taken  into  account.  Ecuador  will 
continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  find  a  solution  in  this 
case. To that end, we hope to have the support of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and the Kingdom of Sweden.
I  appeal  to  the  Kingdom  of  Sweden  to  enforce 
one of the most important legal principles recognized 
internationally  and  by  the  Swedish  legal  system: 
effective  judicial  protection.  After  four  years,  the 
Prosecutor’s  Office  of  that  country  has  been  unable 
to  take  statements  from  Julian  Assange,  even  though 
under Swedish law this could have been done in another 
country,  even  though  Ecuador  repeatedly  offered  its 
judicial cooperation, and even though Julian Assange’s 
lawyers expressed their willingness to cooperate.
Turning  to  another  subject,  and  with  this  I  will 
conclude  my  statement,  I  would  like  to  speak  about 
transnational corporations. In recent years, there have 
been  increased  demands  brought  by  transnational 
corporations in international arbitration courts against 
the States and peoples of the South. Those multimillion 
dollar  disputes,  such  as  the  Chevron-Texaco  case  in 
Ecuador, threaten the tax resources and jeopardize the 
validity and legitimacy of the national jurisdiction of the 
States concerned. The scale of the problem could even 
compromise the development plans of the countries of 
14-55200
33/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
the  South,  in  Latin  America  and  other  regions  of  the 
world.
Mr.  Thomas  Boni  Yayi,  has  asked  me  to  deliver  this 
message to the Assembly on his behalf.
In that context, we are also establishing, within the 
framework  of  UNASUR,  a  regional  arbitration  centre 
that will, inter alia, provide legal advice in investment 
disputes.  We  are  also  creating  a  code  of  conduct  for 
arbitrators  and  mediators  within  UNASUR.  And  we 
are  establishing,  with  other  regions  of  the  world,  an 
observatory on transnational corporations. All of that is 
aimed at creating support mechanisms that can analyse, 
monitor and respond to States’ requests so as to prevent 
and solve investment disputes. Ecuador, together with 
South  Africa,  has  also  submitted  a  proposal  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council  aimed  at  creating  a  binding 
instrument to impose international human rights legal 
obligations  on  transnational  corporations.  For  the 
time  being,  a  working  group  is  being  established  to 
consider  that  initiative.  My  country  attaches  special 
importance to the matter, and we will work to reach an 
understanding with States because that is an extremely 
important issue. We are confident that we will have the 
States’ full support.
Finally, I wish to reiterate to the Secretary-General 
Ecuador’s gratitude for the appointment of the former 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Lenín  Voltaire 
Moreno  Garcés,  as  Special  Envoy  on  Disability  and 
Accessibility.  Ecuador  will  continue  to  support  all 
initiatives of the Organization to promote and protect 
the rights of people with disabilities and their families.
At  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  I  pointed  out 
some  achievements  of  the  citizens’  revolution  in  the 
past seven and a half years. The changes brought about 
have had a profound impact and have caused a historic 
transformation. My country also wishes to work with all 
Member States to achieve a true transformation of the 
United  Nations.  We  have  enormous  challenges  ahead 
to  promote  development,  maintain  peace  and  reduce 
inequality  and  poverty.  Ecuador  is  fully  committed 
to  working  together  on  that  historic  task.  I  hope  to 
see fellow Member States in the Hall next year at the 
seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  when  we 
can  then  celebrate  important  decisions  that  we  have 
taken.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jean-Francis Régis Zinsou, chair of the delegation 
of the Republic of Benin.
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke 
in  French):  The 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  His  Excellency 
At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Sam 
Kutesa  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  pay  tribute 
to  the  country  of  Uganda  for  its  leadership.  I  would 
also like to congratulate the outgoing President of the 
General  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe, 
whose  enthusiasm  enabled  consensus  to  be  reached 
on important issues considered during the Assembly’s 
sixty-eighth session. Without a doubt, he successfully 
fulfilled  his  mandate,  laying  the  groundwork  for  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  in  particular  with  the 
successful conclusion of the work of the Open Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals. My gratitude 
also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for his continuing efforts to strengthen the role of the 
United Nations as an effective force for stability, peace, 
collective security and the promotion of human dignity 
and sustainable development. I would like to express to 
him my firm support for his initiatives aimed at easing 
tensions and settling conflict situations in order to pave 
the way to building a world that is more just, based on 
equality, justice, respect for human rights and solidarity 
among peoples, and to curb climate change.
The theme of the current session, “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”, is of prime importance for the least developed 
countries  (LDCs),  a  group  for  which  Benin  serves  as 
Chair through September 2015. It clearly describes the 
major work to be done and on which we should focus 
our  energies  throughout  the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth 
session  in  order  to  forge  consensus  around  actions  to 
be  taken  to  make  “The  future  we  want”  a  reality.  In 
that  regard,  the  post-2015  development  agenda  must 
take into account the lessons learned and experiences 
acquired  throughout  the  15  years  we  have  just  gone 
through in the implementation phase of the Millennium 
Development Goals. Efforts must therefore be pursued 
to eliminate extreme poverty, promote more equal and 
inclusive  economic  growth,  establish  transparent  and 
responsible  institutions  that  are  able  to  stimulate  the 
process  of  sustainable  development,  bring  about  the 
professionalization of young people, and create decent 
jobs  for  the  long  term  through  the  implementation  of 
integrated social protection schemes that cover all forms 
of  vulnerability.  Once  adopted,  the  implementation 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  should  receive 
stepped up attention and energy so that no one will be 
left behind. The High-level Panel of Eminent Persons 
34/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  have  sent  the 
Secretary-General 
the 
programme.
recommendations  on 
their 
The  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for Development should be prepared with an open mind 
towards  innovation.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to 
create strategies and find the means to implement them 
in order to accelerate structural transformations in the 
least developed countries so as to reduce the gap that 
separates them from developed countries, notably with 
regard  to  access  to  the  benefits  of  modernity,  and  in 
order  to  meet  basic  needs,  which  should  now  be  seen 
as a fundamental right to be guaranteed to all human 
beings. It is necessary to put an end to exclusion in all 
its forms and at all levels and to integrate all countries 
affected  by  marginalization  into  the  global  economic 
growth  by  re-establishing  the  balance  that  has  been 
disrupted  among  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development,  namely,  economic  efficiency,  social 
stability and environmental preservation.
I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  Istanbul  Action 
Programme set as a major goal halving the number of 
LDCs  by  2020.  The  Programme  made  the  productive 
capacity-building of LDCs one of its foremost priorities 
in order to achieve that goal. With a view to mobilizing 
the international community to implement that effective 
programme,  in  its  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Global 
Coordination Bureau of the Group of Least Developed 
Countries,  Benin  took  the  initiative  to  organize  the 
Ministerial  Conference  on  New  Partnerships  for 
Productive Capacity-Building in LDCs, held in Cotonou 
from 28 to 31 July.
In  its  resolution  68/224,  of  20  December  2013, 
the General Assembly expressed its expectations with 
regard to the outcomes of the Ministerial Conference. 
Today,  I  can  report  those  outcomes  to  the  Assembly. 
The  Ministerial  Conference  adopted  the  Cotonou 
Agenda  for  productive  capacity-building  in  LDCs.  It 
advocated  innovative  approaches  in  that  area  through 
specific  recommendations  both  for  LDCs  and  for 
their  development  partners.  It  also  requested  that  the 
General Assembly include on its agenda for the sixty-
ninth session the issue of productive capacity-building 
in LDCs.
The President took the Chair.
On behalf of the Government and people of Benin, 
I  would  like  to  thank  our  partners,  in  particular, 
Turkey,  Germany,  the  Netherlands,  Norway,  Spain 
and  Italy,  for  their  contribution  to  the  success  of  that 
Conference, which is of historic importance to LCDs, 
since  it  affects  a  crucial  aspect  of  their  development 
and of their integration into the world economy. I would 
also  like  to  thank  Belgium,  co-Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Friends  of  LDCs,  and  the  European  Union,  which 
assisted  in  implementing  the  initiative.  The  Office 
of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  the  United  Nations 
Office  for  South-South  Cooperation, 
the  United 
Nations  specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector  provided  valuable 
technical support for the knowledgeable preparation of 
the  Ministerial  Conference.  The  Cotonou  Agenda  for 
productive  capacity-building  in  LDCs  will  clearly  be 
a  road  map  for  promoting  the  implementation  of  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action.
In 2015, we will undertake a comprehensive review 
of the major efforts undertaken and the results achieved 
in  all  areas  targeted  by  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  The  most  recent  performance  assessments  put 
Benin,  my  country,  among  the  leading  20  countries 
for  the  greatest  progress  made  in  absolute  terms  of 
the  proportion  of  their  population  that  has  emerged 
from poverty. Benin, my country, is singled out by the 
introduction of free kindergaren and primary education 
and  the  provision  of  facilities  at  the  secondary  and 
higher  education  levels  for  pupils  and  students  in 
need, thereby allowing a significant increase in school 
enrolment, in particular among girls.
improved 
In the area of health, the actions of my Government 
have 
the  management  and  provision 
of  services  for  the  prevention  of  mother-to-child 
HIV/AIDS 
transmission,  nutrition,  water  supply, 
hygiene and sanitation. On the basis of the established 
health-care  infrastructure  network,  the  Government 
was  able  to  launch  a  universal  health  insurance  plan, 
which  provides  a  level  of  social  protection  to  people 
at  an  affordable  cost.  The  provision  by  the  State  of 
Caesarean  operations,  as  well  as  free  health  care  to 
children under 5 years of age, have also been life-saving 
measures  for  thousands  of  Beninese  families.  Also, 
efforts  have  been  made  by  the  Government  of  Benin 
to  alleviate  poverty  by  providing  substantial  support 
to microcredit institutions. That has had a significant 
impact  on  improving  the  living  conditions  of  many 
rural populations.
14-55200
35/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
The  willingness  of  development  partners 
to 
support Benin in its vision for long-term development 
and in underpinning the progress made in the areas of 
policy and administrative governance, the management 
of  social  justice  and  the  economic  governance  was 
strengthened  by  the  very  encouraging  results  of  the 
round table on Financing for Development in Benin, held 
in Paris from 17 to 19 June, with funding commitments 
to the tune of approximately $12 billion over a period 
of five years.
levels  and 
The  facts  demonstrate  every  day  that  peace, 
security,  good  governance  at  the  national  and  the 
international 
the  flawless  exercise  of 
sovereign  functions  by  States  are  the  best  guarantees 
for  international  peace,  security  and  stability.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  urgent  to  strengthen  the  effectiveness  of 
the  United  Nations  with  regard  to  efforts  to  ensure 
better conflict prevention and to combat injustice and 
the various forms of criminality rampant in the world. 
In  that  connection,  with  regard  to  Africa,  in  general, 
and  the  Sahel  region,  in  particular,  it  is  necessary  to 
improve  the  United  Nations  support  mechanism  in 
order  to  prevent  further  conflict  and  to  promote  the 
necessary stability for the development of the States of 
the region.
There is a crucial need to address the root causes of 
conflicts, which, at the global level, are used as a pretext 
for  extremism  and  terrorist  organizations.  I  would 
like  to  welcome  the  mobilization  of  the  international 
community and the steadfastness of the United Nations 
in response to the actions of those armed groups. Thanks 
to the effectiveness of the actions undertaken, the main 
theatres  of  conflict  in  Africa  are  seeing  an  easing  of 
tension. Benin will continue to provide its modest but 
quality contribution to United Nations peacekeeping in 
that regard.
Coastal  African  States,  in  particular  those  in  the 
Gulf  of  Guinea,  also  face  piracy  and  armed  robbery 
at sea, as well as transnational organized crime. That 
greatly  hampers  their  economic  growth.  The  steps 
taken to address such criminality have clearly produced 
encouraging  results.  However,  we  need  to  further 
strengthen  those  steps  through  the  ongoing  vigilance 
and greater support of the international community in 
order to rapidly implement the measures adopted on the 
basis of the outcome of the ministerial meeting held in 
Cotonou on 18 and 19 March 2013 and the summit held 
in Yaoundé on 24 and 25 June 2013 with regard to the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  2018 
(2011) and 2039 (2012).
Moreover, the tranquillity of West African nations 
has been shaken for some months by the outbreak of the 
Ebola virus, whose rapid spread has already caused more 
than  3,000  deaths,  half  the  number  of  those  infected. 
The scale of the phenomenon requires the deployment 
of  a  coordinated  health  mechanism  throughout  the 
countries of the region in order to contain it.
From this rostrum, I commend the diligence shown 
by  the  Secretary-General  and  by  the  World  Health 
Organization  in  leading  the  international  community 
to  take  measures  commensurate  with  the  challenge 
to  humankind  and  to  establish  a  series  of  emergency 
measures  to  counter  and  to  contain  that  global  threat 
beyond the affected States. The crisis underscores the 
need  to  promote  human  security  and,  in  particular, 
health  security  in  order  to  increase  the  resilience  of 
populations.
The state of the world is undoubtedly taking a very 
worrying turn. Humankind is at a crossroads. It is more 
necessary than ever that the United Nations affirm its 
leadership so as to reverse the alarming trends. In that 
regard, it is urgent to find a negotiated solution to the 
situation in the Middle East, which has continued for 
too long. Maintaining the status quo is untenable in all 
respects.  The  recognition  of  Palestine  as  a  sovereign 
State and a full Member of the United Nations, living 
in harmony with Israel, cannot be delayed any longer. 
Such recognition will clearly facilitate the momentum 
for reducing tensions in the Middle East and establish 
favourable conditions for a just and lasting settlement 
of the other conflicts and complex problems afflicting 
that region.
Benin deplores the escalation of violence in Ukraine 
and the radicalization of the parties to the conflict, which 
is leading to increase in the loss of human lives and the 
damage  suffered  by  the  affected  civilian  populations. 
I would also urge the United Nations to work towards 
the settlement of that conflict in the higher interest of 
international peace and security.
In  addition,  Benin  advocates  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  existing  disputes  in  the  context  of  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  call  for  the 
mobilization  of  the  international  community  with 
regard  to  the  holding  and  the  success  of  the  next 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
36/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapon, with an African 
Chair.  We  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  issue 
of  the  funding  for  the  preparations  for  the  Review 
Conference,  the  responsibility  for  which  cannot  rest 
solely with the upcoming Chair, particularly since that 
country is an LDC.
The universality, indivisibility and interdependence 
of all human rights are fundamental values   for Benin. 
We  are  strongly  committed  to  human  dignity  and  the 
sacred nature of human life. For that reason, out of a 
national  belief,  Benin  acceded  to  the  international 
instrument for the abolition of the death penalty. That 
enables  us  to  join  the  countries  at  the  forefront  of 
the  global  campaign  for  the  abolition  of  that  form  of 
punishment. We welcome that commitment.
That campaign must continue so that the idea that 
the  death  penalty,  far  from  serving  justice,  instead 
represents a failure of justice is more broadly shared. 
The  increasing  number  of  countries  that  support  the 
moratorium  or  have  acceded  to  it  by  law  or  in  deed 
strengthens  our  hope  for  the  universal  abolition  of 
the death penalty. In the context of that campaign, the 
Government of Benin, in cooperation with the African 
Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, organized 
a  regional  conference  on  the  abolition  of  the  death 
penalty  in  Africa  in  Cotonou  from  2  to  4  July.  The 
conference called on African States to abolish the death 
penalty throughout the continent.
My Government remains committed to strengthening 
the principles of democracy and the rule of law and the 
implementation of effective development policies. That 
is why my Government strives daily to find ways and 
means  of  strengthening  those  norms  in  Benin,  which 
requires the creation of jobs and opportunities for all. 
That  noble  goal  can  be  achieved  only  by  effectively 
combating corruption.
inter-faith  dialogue  and, 
The  difficult  times  that  the  world  is  currently 
experiencing  require  both  globally  and  nationally  a 
united front in support of the values   of mutual respect, 
solidarity, 
in  particular, 
ongoing  talks  between  Muslim  and  Christian  leaders 
in  order  to  establish  a  common  space  of  friendship, 
essential  to  the  flourishing  of  peoples.  Taking  into 
account the seriousness of that problem in Africa, my 
Government  decided  to  support  an  initiative  of  the 
Pan-African Social Prospects Centre, headquartered in 
Benin, to hold an international symposium on Islamic-
Christian  dialogue  in  Cotonou  in  March  2015.  That 
multifaceted  project  seeks  to  promote  education  on 
peace and development among peoples in the context of 
a harmonious coexistence of religions. I encourage all 
people of goodwill to respect such ideals and to support 
Benin’s initiative.
In  conclusion,  I  recall  the  need  for  intensified 
negotiations  to  achieve  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular,  the  Security  Council.  Benin 
strongly hopes that in 2015, the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  Organization  will  be  marked  by  the  adoption 
of  significant  measures  commensurate  with 
the 
challenges and opportunities of the new era in order to 
make  the  composition  of  the  Council  fairer  and  more 
representative and its working methods more inclusive 
so that it can fulfil its mandate more effectively.
Moreover, all our efforts must seek to achieve our 
shared desire to see the United Nations regain its full 
capacity to promote an inclusive, transparent and more 
effective global governance in the context of productive 
multilateralism  so  as  to  build  a  balanced  world  order 
that promotes stability and harmony to the clear benefit 
of our peoples. In such conditions, all Member States 
would be able to take the virtuous path of sustainable 
development  and  shared  prosperity  so  that  equality, 
peace,  brotherhood  and  the  effective  solidarity  of 
nations lead to that better world for which we yearn.
The President: I now give the floor to the chair of 
the delegation of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  people  of  Solomon  Islands,  I  extend 
warm  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  the  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Uganda,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.  My  delegation  reaffirms  the  core  function  of 
the General Assembly as the chief deliberative body on 
all global issues. We look forward to working with you 
in  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015 development agenda”, which is the theme that 
you have chosen for this session.
My  delegation  pays  tribute  to  your  predecessor, 
Mr. John Ashe, who has done a sterling job in setting 
the  stage  for  a  post-2015  development  agenda.  Under 
his  watch,  he  convened  four  high-level  events  and 
two thematic debates in shaping the new development 
paradigm.  President  Ashe  also  guided  the  work  of 
the  Open  Working  Group  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  developing 
universal  sustainable  development  goals 
(SDGs). 
Today,  we  have  17  carefully  crafted  and  delicately 
14-55200
37/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
balanced SDGs, accompanied by 169 targets. A means 
of  implementation  is  attached  to  each  goal,  which,  if 
honoured,  will  trigger  a  seismic  shift  in  the  way  that 
we do business.
We  look  forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s  post-
2015  synthesis  report  later  this  year.  That  report  will 
provide a structure for our post-2015 negotiations. My 
delegation  is  mindful  of  the  fact  that  the  outcome  of 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  scheduled  for  mid-2015,  will  feed  into 
the negotiation process. Solomon Islands commits itself 
to ensuring that our people own and buy into the post-
2015 development agenda.
The Solomon Islands’ scorecard on the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) remains mixed across all 
eight Goals. We are on track for achieving some of them, 
off track for others and in the process for three Goals. 
However,  we  remain  committed  to  consolidating  our 
MDG gains and are beginning to build the foundation 
for integrating a new development agenda nationally at 
all levels.
If sustainable development is to grow roots in any 
country, it needs to be nurtured in a politically stable 
environment. The Solomon Islands National Parliament 
passed the Political Party Integrity Bill in May. The act 
allows political parties to develop and to operate in a 
regulated  and  systematic  manner,  thereby  instilling  a 
predictable and stable political atmosphere, which is an 
essential condition for development.
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that, under the 
leadership of the Prime Minister, the Honourable Gordon 
Darcy  Lilo,  the  ninth  Solomon  Islands  Parliament 
concluded  its  four-year  term  early  this  month.  As  the 
people anxiously look forward to exercising their right 
to vote in the forthcoming national general election, we 
will do so using the biometric voter system for the first 
time. As a young democratic State, we are constantly 
improving our governance system and correcting past 
election irregularities. We could not have achieved that 
without  international  support  and  partnership.  To  our 
partners, I convey once again the deep appreciation and 
gratitude of Solomon Islands.
Solomon  Islands  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to congratulate both Fiji and New Zealand 
on  their  newly  elected  Governments  and  Parliaments. 
We  stand  ready  to  strengthen  our  bilateral  relations 
with  our  two  neighbours  and  to  address  issues  of 
mutual concern. We also convey our best wishes to the 
Kingdom  of  Tonga  for  its  November  national  general 
elections.
Solomon  Islands  has  continued  to  serve  on  the 
Executive  Board  of  UN-Women.  Gender-based 
violence is a major economic leakage in any country’s 
development.  It  reduces  women’s  productivity  in  all 
three dimensions of sustainable development. Gender-
based violence also imposes a cost on the wider society. 
Last  month,  the  Solomon  Islands  National  Parliament 
met  its  international  obligation  under  the  Committee 
on  the  Elimination  of  Discrimination  against  Women 
and  adopted  family  protection  legislation.  The  act 
protects  families  from  domestic  violence,  deals  with 
perpetrators and provides practical support to victims 
of violence. The legislation has received strong national 
visibility  and  promotes  gender  equality.  Solomon 
Islands  wishes  to  acknowledge  UN-Women’s  Markets 
for Change project in the country. The project aims to 
improve  market  governance  and  on-site  services  for 
women. It recognizes and addresses our rural women’s 
challenges and will, hopefully, encourage more women 
to engage in economic activities.
The  year  2015  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  Platform  for  Action  of  the  Fourth  World 
Conference  on  Women.  Solomon  Islands  conducted  a 
national  review  on  its  implementation  of  the  Beijing 
Platform  for  Action  and  has  identified  three  areas  of 
achievements:  recognition  of  gender  equality,  the 
economic  empowerment  of  women  and  awareness  of 
gender-based  violence.  We  believe  in  the  notion  that 
progress  for  women  is  progress  for  all.  We  remain 
committed to implementing the Platform for Action.
The 
third  International  Conference  on  Small 
Islands Developing States (SIDS), convened in Samoa, 
reaffirmed  SIDS  as  a  special  case  for  sustainable 
development  given 
their  unique  and  particular 
vulnerability.  The 
once-in-a-decade  Conference 
adopted  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
Pathway,  which  outlines  19  priority  areas.  The 
outcome  document  (A/CONF.223/3,  annex)  calls  for 
a  comprehensive  review  of  United  Nations  support  to 
SIDS.
In  that  connection,  Solomon  Islands  seeks  closer 
relations  with  the  United  Nations.  We  would  like 
to  see  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
Subregional  Office  in  Solomon  Islands  upgraded  to 
the  status  of  country  office.  After  more  than  three 
decades  of  the  United  Nations  managing  Solomon 
38/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Islands  relations  from  abroad,  it  is  time  to  invest  in 
such relations in my capital.
With  regard  to  a  related  matter,  Solomon  Islands 
continues to be underrepresented in the composition of 
United Nations staff. However, we are grateful for and 
welcome the United Nations annual recruitment drive 
in  Solomon  Islands  and  hope  to  fill  our  employment 
quota soon, with Solomon islanders joining the diverse 
United Nations staff.
Health  remains  a  precondition  for  sustainable 
development.  Solomon  Islands  has  continued 
to 
demonstrate its commitment to improving the health of 
its people. In July, the first 20 Solomon Islands doctors 
graduated  from  medical  schools  in  Cuba.  Solomon 
Islands would like to thank Cuba for the scholarships 
awarded to the doctors, as well as to the remaining 80 
Solomon  Islands  medical  students.  This  year  alone, 
we will witness more than 30 new doctors joining our 
health  services.  It  is  the  vision  of  the  Government  to 
double  the  number  of  doctors  in  the  country  in  the 
next  two  years,  to  continue  to  strengthen  our  health-
care  infrastructure,  putting  in  place  health  and  social 
protection systems, and to work towards making health-
care coverage in Solomon Islands universal.
Solomon Islands joins the international community 
in calling for the lifting of the economic and financial 
blockade imposed on Cuba by our friend and partner, 
the  United  States  of  America.  After  more  than  five 
decades  of  sanctions  on  Cuba,  it  is  time  to  reset 
relations  between  the  two  neighbours  on  the  basis  of 
good-neighbourly  relations  and  respect  for  territorial 
integrity and political sovereignty.
One  of  the  principles  of  the  SDGs  is  that  we 
must  not  leave  anyone  behind.  There  are  States 
knocking  at  the  door  of  the  United  Nations,  ready  to 
take  on  multilateral  responsibilities.  The  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan  continues  to  seek  full  and  effective 
participation  with  three  United  Nations  specialized 
bodies,  namely, 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the World 
Health Organization (WHO) and the International Civil 
Aviation Organization (ICAO).
Those  United  Nations  bodies  deal  with  urgent 
global issues in which we all have an interest — from 
climate change to the evolving health challenges. ICAO 
works  to  keep  our  travelling  public  and  air  services 
safe. I wish to note that 45 million passengers passed 
through  the  Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  in  2012.  We 
do  not  have  the  luxury  of  time  to  turn  a  blind  eye  to 
the required cooperation. The global challenges before 
us  are  too  great  for  narrow  interests  to  adopt  a  wait-
and-see  approach  and  to  keep  postponing  action  that 
is needed.
The  Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  is  a  country  that 
has transformed itself from a developing country into 
an  industrialized  one.  It  is  the  twenty-seventh-largest 
economy in the world and has experience, technology 
and  capability  from  which  our  shared  agenda  can 
benefit.  We  have  all  to  gain  and  nothing  to  lose  by 
inviting the Republic of China, Taiwan, to become the 
195th member of the UNFCCC, the 192nd member of 
ICAO and the 195th member of the WHO.
The Solomon Islands partnership with the Pacific 
Islands Forum, under the Regional Assistance Mission 
to  the  Solomon  Islands,  continues  to  create  positive 
conditions,  allowing  the  country  to  begin  a  limited 
rearmament  of  its  police  force.  The  private  sector 
and  the  international  community  have  responded  to 
the  changing  environment,  with  the  European  Union 
upgrading  its  representation  in  my  capital,  Honiara, 
and more and more non-traditional partners accrediting 
their  envoys  to  Solomon  Islands.  A  new  commercial 
bank  was  incorporated  and  entered  the  Solomon 
Islands market, making it the fourth commercial bank 
to provide financial services to our vibrant population.
Sustainable  development  for  Solomon  Islands,  as 
a  coastal  State,  includes  its  seabed  resources  beyond 
its  1.3-million-square-kilometre  exclusive  economic 
zone.  The  Solomon  Islands  has  registered  a  number 
of  continental  shelf  claims  with  the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
(CLCS). My delegation is pleased to see that one of the 
claims is now being examined by the Subcommission of 
the CLCS. We look forward to further engagement with 
the Subcommission during the course of this session.
The world is facing a series of crisis and conflicts 
in  Africa,  the  Middle  East  and  now  in  Europe.  In 
dealing with conflicts, we must exert greater effort in 
seeking  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  We  must 
collectively  counter  extremism,  terrorism  and  crimes 
against  humanity,  and  protect  civilians,  operating 
within the letter and spirit of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
As  the  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the  Security  Council  must  be  part  of  that  solution. 
14-55200
39/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
Despite the call of world leaders for the speedy reform 
of  the  Security  Council  in  2005,  nine  years  on  we 
are still working at it. At the tenth intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform in July, there 
was overwhelming support for the expansion of Security 
Council membership and for making the Council more 
representative  and  accountable  in  terms  of  improving 
its working methods. An advisory group mandated by 
your predecessor, Mr. President, produced a non-paper. 
It  provided  structure  to  the  last  session’s  discussions 
and can be used as a basis for negotiations during this 
session. We look to you for leadership on that.
Turning  now  to  the  recent  outbreak  of  Ebola, 
the  gravity,  scale  and  spread  of  the  Ebola  virus  in 
West  Africa  is  unprecedented  and  demands  urgent 
international cooperation. The Ebola disease has halted 
services  and  disrupted  the  lives  of  many  people  in 
the  affected  countries.  The  Solomon  Islands  supports 
our Secretary-General’s action to establish the United 
Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response, 
and  acknowledges  global  efforts  in  mobilization  of 
resources to combat the disease as a matter of urgency.
As  stated  by  other  delegations,  decolonization 
remains an unfinished business of the United Nations. 
If we are to deliver on the Third International Decade 
for  the  Eradication  of  Colonialism,  we  will  need  the 
cooperation of all parties — including the administering 
Powers, 
the  Non-Self-Governing  Territories,  and 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  —  to  honour 
their  commitments  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  1960  Declaration  on  the  Granting  of 
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.
The  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  (MSG),  made 
up  of  Fiji,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Vanuatu,  Solomon 
Islands  and  the  Front  de  libération  nationale  kanak 
socialiste,  continues  to  follow  the  question  of  New 
Caledonia  in  the  United  Nations  Special  Committee 
on  Decolonization  (Committee  of  24).  The  Group 
welcomed  the  Committee’s  visit  to  New  Caledonia 
in  March,  and  noted  its  concerns  relating  to  the 
Territory’s electoral process and needed legislation in 
keeping within the spirit of the Nouméa Accord. Those 
issues  have  implications  in  preparing  for  a  credible 
referendum process, consistent and in conformity with 
the  universally  accepted  principles  and  practices  of 
self-determination, as defined by resolution 1514 (XV) 
and other relevant resolutions of the Assembly.
My delegation would also like to acknowledge the 
diligent work of the Committee of 24 in examining the 
question of French Polynesia. Solomon Islands continues 
to reaffirm its support for the inalienable rights of the 
people  of  French  Polynesia  to  self-determination,  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. It is 
our hope that the Decolonization Committee will soon 
visit the Non-Self-Governing Territory, in cooperation 
with the administering Power.
Solomon  Islands,  as  a  member  of  the  MSG,  is 
working  in  collaboration  with  Indonesia  on  human 
rights  concerns  in  Papua  and  West  Papua,  the  two 
easternmost  provinces  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia. 
On  21  May,  Solomon  Islands  established  its  Embassy 
in Jakarta with the genuine intention of continuing to 
cooperate with Indonesia on many important issues of 
mutual concern, including those taken up together by 
MSG members.
Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  World  Conference 
on  Indigenous  People.  More  than  90  per  cent  of  our 
population are indigenous Melanesians and Polynesians 
speaking more than 87 different languages. Our diverse 
cultures are under threat due to forced relocation from 
ancestral lands as a result of sea-level rise. Their right 
to live in harmony with nature is being threatened by 
the declining health of the planet.
Climate  change  remains  the  greatest  challenge  of 
our time. It calls for the widest possible international 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  all.  This  month,  Solomon 
Islands  ratified  the  second  commitment  period  under 
the  Kyoto  Protocol  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC).  We 
encourage parties to the Protocol that have not ratified 
the  amendment  to  do  so  as  soon  as  possible.  It  is  in 
our  collective  interest  to  see  the  Protocol  enforced. 
We  remain  deeply  concerned  on  the  slow  progress  of 
climate-change negotiations, and hope that the General 
Assembly  will  invite  the  UNFCCC  to  conduct  its 
negotiations  in  New  York,  where  diplomats  from  all 
parties to the Convention are located all year round. We 
need to accelerate the pace of negotiations. This must 
be  done  while  working  with  our  technical  experts  in 
the process.
In looking at the 2015 Climate Change agreement, 
Solomon Islands would like to see a credible agreement 
that  will  guarantee  the  survival  of  the  SIDS  and  the 
least developed countries (LDCs). The agreement must 
be  comprehensive  in  scope,  addressing  mitigation, 
adaptation, finance and technology transfer. It must be 
inclusive, and respect and respond to the special needs 
of  SIDS  and  LDCs.  The  agreement  must  be  flexible 
40/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
enough  to  respond  to  the  changing  science  and  be 
adequately resourced.
Climate-change  risk  remains  at  the  forefront  of 
our sustainable development path. The flash floods of 
great magnitude and intensity that occurred in Solomon 
Islands in April claimed lives and destroyed homes and 
infrastructure.  Damages  and  losses  are  equivalent  to 
9.2 per cent of Solomon Islands’ gross domestic product. 
This has created pressure in the form of new expenses, 
prompting  the  Government  to  borrow  and  secure 
grants  externally.  Solomon  Islands  remains  grateful 
to  its  neighbours  —  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Nauru, 
Tuvalu,  Samoa  and  Papua  New  Guinea  —  as  well  as 
Turkey, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Botswana, 
Sri Lanka and the Republic of China on Taiwan, among 
others, that have supported our national rehabilitation 
and recovery efforts.
Despite  the  disaster  challenges,  Solomon  Islands 
remains  determined  to  build  a  resilient  society.  We 
are  on  track  in  building  two  hydro-projects  in  two 
provinces, in partnership with the World Bank and the 
Asian  Development  Bank.  In  partnership  with  Japan, 
we  are  expanding  our  port  facilities  to  promote  and 
enable domestic, regional and international trade. I am 
pleased  to  say  that,  since  the  sixty-eighth  session,  a 
number of domestic airports and 18 bridges have been 
constructed,  further  uniting  our  scattered  population. 
This would not have been possible without the support 
of  Australia,  New  Zealand  and  the  European  Union, 
and we express our gratitude to our traditional partners.
The  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change 
(IPCC)  confirms  that,  without  additional  mitigation 
actions, we are heading towards a 3.7-4.8°C world. The 
fifth  IPCC  assessment  report  indicates  that  by  2030, 
89  per  cent  of  coral  reefs  are  projected  to  experience 
severe coral bleaching, with the temperature increasing 
by  1.5°C.  By  2050,  at  2°C  we  are  looking  at  100  per 
cent  coral  reef  bleaching.  These  developments  will 
occur  in  our  generation  and  will  have  an  impact  on 
tourism industries and fish stocks, potentially driving 
households in the SIDS and LDCs into poverty traps.
We call on the international community to respect 
the principles of fairness and justice and to put SIDS 
and LDCs at the heart of international cooperation. In 
that connection, my delegation welcomes the Secretary-
General’s  Climate  Summit,  held  last  week.  We  also 
support  your  proposal,  Mr.  President,  of  convening  a 
high-level debate on climate change during the course 
of this session. We do so because our lives depend on it.
inclusive  world.  Implementing 
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  the  commitment 
of the Solomon Islands to striving for a just, equitable 
and 
the  post-2015 
development agenda provides us with our first and last 
line of defence in guaranteeing a sustainable future for 
our current and future generations.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Milan Jaya Nyamrajsingh Meetarbhan, 
Chair of the delegation of the Republic of Mauritius.
Mr. Meetarbhan (Mauritius): The year 2015 will be 
a crucial one for the United Nations and the international 
community.  In  the  coming  year,  we  will  reach  the 
deadline  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  adopt  a  post-2015  development  agenda, 
which will include our sustainable development goals. 
In 2015, we should adopt a new, legally binding global 
climate  agreement.  And  the  international  community 
will  also  commemorate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the founding of the United Nations.
At  this  juncture,  we  have  to  ask  ourselves  to 
what extent we have achieved the ideals set out in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  what  is  still  to  be 
done. We must also ask to what extent the institutional 
framework laid down almost 70 years ago is still valid 
today.  Inequality,  both  among  and  within  nations,  is 
still a matter for great concern. In spite of the constant 
references to the rule of law at national and international 
levels,  we  still  do  not  always  have  the  possibility  of 
recourse  to  machinery  adequate  to  resolving  legal 
disputes between States. 
Within  the  United  Nations  itself,  the  principle 
of  equality  is  not  always  honoured,  whether  in  its 
constitutional framework or in practice. The twin pillars 
of peace and security, on the one hand, and development, 
on the other, as established by the Charter, have been 
undermined by the ascendancy of political issues at the 
expense of those of development, which are still often 
seen largely in terms of safeguarding dominant interests 
rather  than  from  a  perspective  of  global  cooperation. 
Inequality  and  vulnerability  are  increasing  in  rich 
and  poor  countries  alike.  Unemployment,  precarious 
employment, lack of social protection, access to human 
development  services  and  financial  services  are  still 
matters of universal concern.
The post-2015 development agenda cannot be only 
about human rights — civil, political, economic — at 
the national level; it must also ensure that the right to 
development is upheld at the international level. As we 
14-55200
41/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
work  on  a  new,  comprehensive  development  agenda, 
we must ensure that no right is ignored and no one is 
left behind. The United Nations System Task Team on 
the  Post-2015  United  Nations  Development  Agenda 
has proposed that the transformative efforts to achieve 
inclusive,  people-centred  sustainable  development 
be  guided  by  three  fundamental  principles  —  human 
rights,  equality  and  sustainability  —  and  have  four 
social  development, 
core  dimensions: 
environmental 
inclusive  economic 
development  and  peace  and  security.  Mauritius 
is  in  broad  agreement  with  those  core  principles 
and  dimensions,  as  outlined  in  the  Team’s  report 
Realizing the Future We Want for All, for guiding this 
transformation  at  both  the  national  and  international 
levels. 
inclusive 
sustainability, 
The  war  against  Ebola  demands  robust  action 
from  all  of  us  and  requires  exceptional  international 
cooperation.  We  welcome  the  initiatives  announced 
last week, and we commit ourselves to giving our full 
support to addressing this global challenge.
The water we drink, the food we eat and the energy 
we  require  are  vital  to  meaningful  development.  It  is 
estimated that by 2025, 1.8 billion people will be living 
in  countries  or  regions  with  absolute  water  scarcity, 
and two thirds of the world’s population could be living 
under  water-stress  conditions.  One  in  eight  people  in 
the world today — 842 million — are undernourished. 
Approximately  2  billion  suffer  from  micronutrient 
deficiencies. In 2030, it is estimated that food demand 
will have increased by more than 50 per cent. In that 
regard, Mauritius supports the Secretary-General’s call 
for  a  Zero  Hunger  Challenge.  Promoting  sustainable 
agriculture must therefore be an essential component of 
the new development framework. 
It  is  also  estimated  that  by  2035,  global  energy 
demand  will  have  increased  by  at  least  33  per  cent. 
Currently, 1.2 billion people have no access to electricity. 
Those  growing  demands  will  make  water,  food  and 
energy  crucial  issues  not  only  on  the  development 
agenda  but  also  in  the  wider  context  of  international 
peace and security. The international community should 
support  developing  countries,  particularly  vulnerable 
countries  such  as  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS),  in  their  efforts  to  promote  water  governance 
and  integrated  water  resources  management,  increase 
the share of renewables in the energy mix and improve 
energy conservation and efficiency.
In  order  to  support  global  development,  it  is 
crucial  that  we  have  an  international  regime  based 
on structured global cooperation designed to promote 
technology  facilitation,  and  a  technology  facilitation 
mechanism  established  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations could play a central role in that regard. 
It  is  also  important  that  the  international  community 
recognize the vital role of women and young people and 
their enhanced participation and leadership in all areas 
of sustainable development. Promoting gender equality 
and women’s empowerment should be a core issue on 
the post-2015 development agenda. All sections of the 
population  should  be  at  the  heart  of  a  people-centred 
vision of sustainable development.
for  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
of  Experts 
The  contributions  of  all  the  initiatives  launched 
at the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20),  including  the  Open  Working 
the 
Group 
Intergovernmental  Committee 
on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing,  and  options  for 
a technology facilitation mechanism, should feed into 
the preparations for a 2015 development summit. They 
should  also  be  included  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
synthesis  report.  The  deliberations  of 
the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  mandated  by  the  Rio+20  outcome  document 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  should  be  reflected  in  the 
synthesis report and the post-2015 development agenda.
Since  accountability  is  essential  to  assessing 
progress,  the  post-2015  development  agenda  should 
also  include  an  accountability  framework  that  would 
be  universal  but  flexible  enough  to  take  into  account 
different capacities and responsibilities. And we need 
more  accountable  and  equitable  global  economic 
governance 
inclusive 
participation in decision-making. The United Nations, 
given 
its  universal  membership,  should  assume 
leadership  and  a  proactive  role  in  promoting  sound 
and  equitable  governance  in  a  more  resilient  global 
economic architecture.
that  ensures  wider,  more 
Beyond  those  immediate  concerns,  there  are  a 
number  of  longer-term  threats  that  may  dramatically 
affect all of us, particularly SIDS. One of them is climate 
change. Climate risks are real and must be addressed. 
From  melting  glaciers  to  more  frequent  wildfires  and 
intense cyclones, flash floods, extreme heatwaves and 
ocean  acidification,  the  challenges  are  not  a  future 
threat;  they  already  exist.  The  latest  report  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change,  Climate 
42/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability, 
made it clear that an increase in the world’s temperature 
of 2°C would be dangerous, while one of 4°C would be 
catastrophic. 
Climate  risks  are  global  challenges  that  require 
global solutions. Climate change poses risks to global 
economic prosperity, development and security as well 
as to the environment. We must build on the momentum 
of the Climate Summit and use the opportunity of the 
20th  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, to be held in Lima, to raise the level of ambition 
in the lead-up to a new universal climate agreement in 
Paris next year.
The  strong  connections  between  climate  change 
adaptation  and  disaster  risk  reduction  should  be 
recognized. No country is immune to natural disasters, 
but it is the most vulnerable countries and people who 
are hit the hardest. Mauritius looks forward to a renewed 
and ambitious international framework for disaster risk 
management that establishes disaster risk reduction as 
a  key  element  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
We  also  believe  that  the  exogenous  risks  of  climate 
change and natural disasters should be integrated into 
mainstream  economic  thinking  and  assessment  of 
macroeconomic risks.
We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  most  recent 
Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  meeting  to 
establish a Commonwealth climate finance skills hub, 
to be hosted by Mauritius. It will address critical gaps 
in  building  the  capacity  of  SIDS  and  least-developed 
countries  to  identify,  access  and  manage  climate 
finance. The special circumstances, vulnerabilities and 
low resilience of SIDS should be taken into account with 
regard to financing and trade issues. SIDS need special 
and  differential  treatment  to  access  concessionary 
sources  of  financing  for  sustainable  development 
and  to  effectively  participate  in  multilateral  trade. 
Mauritius  strongly  supports  SIDS-SIDS  partnerships. 
SIDS  can  build  on  their  commonality  of  interests  to 
share experiences, pool resources and act collectively 
in commissioning technology or formulating legal and 
regulatory frameworks, for instance.
The  oceans  are  the  new  frontier  for  economic 
development.  For  SIDS  in  particular,  they  are  the 
best  scope  for  expanding  economic  space.  Following 
a  national  dialogue  on 
the 
Government of Mauritius has published the Road Map 
for the Mauritian Ocean Economy. The Road Map sets 
the  ocean  economy, 
out the vision, goals and strategies for the development 
and expansion of a new pillar of our economy. In order 
to provide the best possible conditions for investors to 
operate and create wealth, Mauritius is putting in place 
an  enabling  environment  that  will  support  our  ocean 
economy through an integrated and holistic approach to 
ensure coherence and balance among economic growth, 
social development and environmental protection.
Promoting  the  ocean  economy  will  unleash  the 
potential  for  SIDS  with  respect  to  all  ocean-related 
economic activities, both onshore and offshore. It will 
also enable them to enhance their nations’ food security, 
harness  the  winds  and  waves  for  their  energy  needs, 
develop new ocean-related industries and services that 
will  create  opportunities  for  entrepreneurs  and  youth 
employment.
It  is  essential  that  we  strike  a  balance  between 
the various uses of the oceans and the need to protect 
our  oceans.  At  the  third  International  Conference  on 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  held  in  Samoa,  the 
international community agreed to build upon existing 
partnerships and promote new ones in order to expand 
the economic space of large ocean States. We wish to 
reiterate our call for the United Nations to adopt a global 
oceans strategy that will be the operational counterpart 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea (UNCLOS). While it will be for individual States 
to  decide  on  their  own  ocean  economy  policies,  the 
global ocean strategy will provide an overall vision and 
framework  for  the  sustainable  development  of  ocean-
related economic activities for policymakers, investors 
and all stakeholders.
The situation in the Middle East and in certain parts 
of  Africa  could  not  only  have  dramatic  consequences 
for the people of these regions, but also impact on global 
development  and  peace.  We  urge  the  international 
community  to  spare  no  effort  in  resolving  the  plight 
of the people of Palestine. Mauritius supports the two-
State solution to the conflict. The people of the State 
of Palestine have suffered for too long from the grave 
injustice done to them, and must be allowed to live in 
dignity and peace within recognized borders.
If it is to remain credible and play the constructive 
role  it  can  and  must  play  in  the  new  world  order, 
the  United  Nations  must  respond  to  the  call  of  its 
membership  for  reform.  We  have  a  duty  to  engage  in 
meaningful  discussions  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, the revitalization of the General Assembly and 
the  working  methods  of  our  Organization.  Mauritius 
14-55200
43/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  African  Common 
Position  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should 
include expansion in the permanent and non-permanent 
categories alike. The historical injustice done to Africa 
should  be  redressed,  and  Africa  should  be  accorded 
permanent  representation  on 
the  Council.  Latin 
America  also  deserves  permanent  representation,  and 
the  SIDS  should  be  entitled  to  a  seat  on  the  Council. 
Mauritius  further  reiterates  its  support  for  India’s 
rightful  aspiration  to  a  permanent  seat  in  a  reformed 
Security Council.
In  the  mid-1960s,  when  a  wave  of  decolonization 
was  sweeping  across  the  world,  the  United  Kingdom 
purported  to  create  a  new  colony,  the  so-called 
British  Indian  Ocean  Territory,  by  carving  out  part 
of  the  territory  of  Mauritius.  Thus,  part  of  Mauritian 
territory remains under colonial rule. As long as part 
of Mauritian territory remains under colonial rule, the 
decolonization  of  Africa  will  still  remain  incomplete. 
The dismemberment by the United Kingdom of part of 
the  territory  of  Mauritius  prior  to  independence  was 
and continues to be a blatant breach of international law 
and total disregard of United Nations resolutions.
Speaking before the Assembly last week, President 
Obama said that there was
“one  vision  of  the  world  in  which  might  makes 
right”  [but  that]  “America  stands  for  something 
different. We believe that right makes might, that 
bigger nations should not be able to bully smaller 
ones” (A/69/PV.6, p. 10).
This  is  why,  last  year  in  this  very  forum  (see 
A/68/PV.18),  Mauritius  urged  the  United  States  to  be 
on the right side of history, and not condone illegal acts 
by maintaining its presence on Diego Garcia under an 
unlawful  arrangement  with  the  United  Kingdom  that 
has no valid title to the island, but and instead to ensure 
that, in the future, the United States presence is on the 
right side of the law.
Both  the  United  States  and  the  United  Kingdom 
should  recognize  the  sovereignty  of  Mauritius  over 
the  Chagos  archipelago,  and  engage  in  meaningful 
discussions  with  Mauritius 
faith  over 
arrangements  to  be  made  in  that  regard.  Following 
the  statements  we  have  heard  over  the  past  year  with 
regard  to  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  there 
should not be one set of standards for one part of the 
world and a different one for another part of the world. 
Those who show no respect for fundamental principles 
in  good 
across  the board lose all  moral  authority  to  preach  to 
the  rest  of  the  world.  Following  bilateral  discussions 
on  Tromelin,  which  forms  an  integral  part  of  the 
territory of Mauritius, Mauritius and France agreed on 
interim measures without prejudice to the sovereignty 
of  Mauritius.  An  agreement  reached  in  a  spirit  of 
cooperation and dialogue is a step in the right direction.
As we embark on a new session that could herald 
a  new  chapter  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations, 
we  should  renew  our  commitment  to  multilateral 
cooperation for peace, development and prosperity for 
all nations in the new agenda to be adopted next year.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  José 
Antonio  Dos  Santos,  Chair  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Republic of Paraguay.
Mr.  Dos  Santos  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  allow  me,  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of 
Paraguay, to offer you, Mr. President, our best wishes 
for success in your delicate and important tasks at the 
helm of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. 
I also wish to express my delegation’s appreciation to 
Mr. John Ashe, President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session, for his significant achievements.
The  Government  of  Paraguay  is  attending  the 
general debate to reaffirm the importance and call for 
the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  forum 
capable  of  representing  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States  in  our  urgent  search  for  a  more  just,  united 
and  equitable  world,  guaranteed  by  the  full  force  of 
international law. At the same time, and as we approach 
the  seventieth  year  since  the  creation  of  the  most 
important debating forum in the history of humankind, 
we believe it right to recall that our Organization, the 
United  Nations,  was  created  precisely  as  a  forum  for 
peace among peace-loving nations, as expressed at the 
various international conferences that led to its creation.
That  reminder  seems  even  timely  and  relevant  to  us, 
since the concept of peace is now more necessary than 
ever in various parts of the world such as the Middle 
East and the Black Sea region.
The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its commitment 
to ensuring that all social issues are addressed. In that 
regard,  the  Government  of  President  Horacio  Manuel 
Cartes Jara is dealing decisively with the development, 
execution  and  implementation  of  social  policies  that 
address  various  demands,  with  special  emphasis  on 
the  needs  of  the  most  vulnerable  and  disadvantaged 
sectors  of  our  population,  including  the  elderly,  the 
44/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
rural  population,  indigenous  communities,  migrants, 
children, adolescents and women. We have an obligation 
to  enable  members  of  those  groups  to  be  included  as 
full citizens.
In that regard, I would make a special reference to 
the  World  Conference  of  Indigenous  Peoples,  held  at 
Headquarters a few days ago, which was convened to 
listen  to  the  true  thoughts  and  feelings  of  our  native 
and  indigenous  peoples.  Indigenous  cultural  heritage 
has been and remains one of the key elements shaping 
Paraguay’s cultural identity and has led to miscegenation 
as  the  main  social  factor  unifying  the  native  Guarani 
population and the European conquerors. Our country 
is proud of the linguistic, cultural and political character 
of Paraguay, which boasts the native Guarani language 
of our ancestors as its everyday language.
In  line  with  the  efforts  made  by  the  Government 
since it took office in August 2013, we believe solidarity 
and partnership is necessary among countries, whether 
developing  or  developed,  and  international  financing 
institutions.  We  also  take  into  account  the  fact  that, 
often, vulnerability stems from other areas, such as a 
lack of decent jobs, educational opportunities, access to 
international markets and timely cooperation and from 
issues for which responsibility does not lie exclusively 
with  the  State  but  also  with  the  private  sector,  as  it 
generates  wealth  and  decent  employment.  In  that 
regard, we call on the United Nations bodies that work 
for  cooperation  to  further  strengthen  their  presence 
in  Paraguay  and  support  national  policies  aimed  at 
strengthening democracy and social justice.
For the first time since its inception nearly a decade 
ago,  my  country  is  aspiring  to  secure  a  seat  on  the 
Human Rights Council for the 2015-2017 period. For the 
Republic of Paraguay, the protection and promotion of 
human rights are the foundation for effective democracy. 
They  are  fundamental  values  that    are  enshrined  and 
guaranteed 
in  our  Constitution,  which  expressly 
states  that  international  human  rights  treaties  cannot 
be  rejected  except  through  the  procedures  governing 
amendments to our Constitution. On the basis of those 
constitutional  assurances  and  commitments,  we  are 
confident  that  we  can  play  more  than  a  constructive 
role and thus consolidate the actions of the Council to 
effectively strengthen the promotion and protection of 
human rights around the world.
Paraguay,  in  accordance  with  its  Government’s 
policy,  will  continue  to  continuously  support  and 
follow  issues  in  the  United  Nations  relating  to  the 
promotion of youth participation in social and economic 
development,  persons  with  disabilities,  migrant 
workers,  the  elimination  of  violence  against  women, 
the rights of the child, the elimination of discrimination 
on  the  basis  of  religious  beliefs  and  the  protection  of 
human rights and their relation to extreme poverty.
In  Paraguay,  we  support  the  globalization  of 
democracy through social development. We also believe 
in universal security based on respect for human rights 
as an unwavering commitment to the dignity of human 
life. We therefore hope to build a regional and global 
community that, hand in hand and in solidarity, devotes 
its efforts to eradicating hunger and poverty, effectively 
cooperating  to  promote  the  participation  of  all,  in 
prosperity, through quality education and a system of 
inclusive social protection.
As  a  sign  of  Paraguay’s  desire  to  respond  to  the 
changing times, our President recently promulgated the 
Law on Free Access by Citizens to Public Information 
and  Government  Transparency  as  an  important  tool 
enabling  every  citizen  to  act  as  comptroller  of  public 
expenditures.  The  Law,  which  was  recently  adopted, 
states that all institutions must disseminate information 
as widely as possible. The Law also guarantees access 
by every citizen to all public information.
We  in  Paraguay  believe  that  the  concept  of 
development  should  include,  as  a  sine  qua  non,  the 
principle  of  social  inclusion.  The  major  challenge  of 
achieving  development  that  overcomes  asymmetries 
leads  inevitably  to  efforts  promoting  and  achieving 
an  optimal  quality  of  life  for  all  our  citizens  without 
exception. We must give a human face to our growth. 
Our  citizens  deserve,  and  have  the  right  to,  a  more 
dignified life and overall well-being.
We are currently working to establish a post-2015 
development agenda that is sustainable and has a focus 
on poverty, education, health and social inclusion. We 
have learned that the Millennium Development Goals 
have  been  and  are  important  but  not  sufficient,  and 
that humankind should be the focus of policy. In that 
context, we believe that, for the post-2015 development 
agenda to be successful, it must be accompanied by a 
better distribution of international financial resources.
Paraguay  needs  international  cooperation  that 
is  aligned  with  its  socioeconomic  priorities,  the 
development  and  strengthening  of  its  institutions  and 
preferential  treatment  for  its  most  vulnerable  sectors. 
We  hope  that  the  opening  of  developing  countries 
14-55200
45/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
helps bridge inequalities and that the same restrictions 
that  the  more  developed  economies  are  demanding 
in  the  process  of  their  own  development  will  not 
be  applied.  Paraguay’s  position,  like  that  of  many 
developing  countries,  is  that  South-South  cooperation 
is not a substitute for but a complement to North-South 
cooperation  and  triangular  cooperation.  We  believe 
that the United Nations, as the universal forum, should 
play a central role in ensuring success in our efforts to 
achieve better international coordination and coherence 
in the economic and financial spheres.
As the high-level Climate Summit was also held a 
few  days  ago  here  at  Headquarters  in  New  York,  we 
believe it is necessary to recall that Paraguay is aware 
that climate change poses a serious and complex threat 
to  the  world,  as  highlighted  by  the  growing  negative 
impacts  we  are  experiencing  due  to  the  resulting 
droughts, floods and other adverse phenomena, which 
spread  poverty,  cause  forced  displacements  and  may 
affect international peace and security.
This situation urgently requires a coordinated and 
responsible  global  response  in  order  to  find  ways  to 
mitigate, alleviate and reverse climate change’s tragic 
and  devastating  consequences.  In  addition,  Paraguay 
supports  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities,  on  the  basis  of  which  countries  that 
have  contributed  more  to  the  historical  and  current 
levels  of  pollution  must  shoulder  correspondingly 
greater responsibilities. That principle should be used 
as  an  objective  criterion,  and  its  implementation  will 
contribute  to  efforts  to  mitigate  the  global  impact  of 
climate change.
The  issue  of  landlocked  developing  countries  is 
of  fundamental  importance  for  Paraguay’s  foreign 
policy.  The  asymmetries  and  disadvantages  that  that 
geographical situation brings about will be offset only 
if  there  is  international  recognition  of  the  need  for  a 
special  and  differential  agreement  on  the  country’s 
integration into the globalized world. Paraguay, along 
with other landlocked developing countries in the world, 
of which there are over 30, faces difficulties in terms of 
open access to international markets, mainly owing to 
the restrictions on free transit through transit countries 
and  the  lack  of  special  and  differential  treatment, 
which would allow them to engage in greater and more 
competitive participation in world markets.
This year is particularly important for us because 
in November the second United Nations Conference on 
Landlocked Developing Countries, to be held in Vienna, 
will  review  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  While 
the condition of being a landlocked developing country 
is a disadvantage for Paraguay, we are convinced that 
we  can  overcome  that  adversity.  We  are  working  so 
that our territory can become, in the very near future, a 
favourable environment for integration and productive 
communication  between  the  two  major  oceans,  the 
Atlantic and the Pacific. The new programme of action 
to be adopted at the Vienna Conference should be the 
framework for mutually beneficial cooperation between 
landlocked developing countries and transit countries.
Disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control 
are not just key factors to ensure international peace and 
security,  but  also  guarantee  that  the  most  vulnerable 
countries  can  achieve 
socioeconomic 
development.  Only  by  securing  a  strong  multilateral 
system  with  strict  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  and  national  levels  can  we  ensure  our 
mutual  security.  We  are  convinced  that  universal 
and  binding  international  instruments  in  the  area  of 
disarmament  and  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  which  will 
enter into force in the near future, will help improve the 
effectiveness of existing regional initiatives to prevent 
irresponsible actors from gaining access to weapons.
sustained 
to 
Again,  we  urge  Israel  and  Palestine 
lay 
the  foundation  for  social,  political  and  economic 
reconstruction,  which  should  enable  both  peoples 
to  live  in  peace  and  harmony.  Today  more  than  ever, 
we must promote the negotiation process between the 
parties, which can lead to lasting peace so that Israel 
and Palestine can live side by side with secure borders 
and in peace.
thanks 
I  also  wish  to  note  that  Paraguay  recognizes 
and  welcomes  the  participation  and  contributions 
of  the  Republic  of  China  (Taiwan)  to  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies, 
to  a  rapprochement 
between  the  two  parties  of  the  Taiwan  Strait.  In  a 
world  beset  by  conflicts,  my  Government  welcomes 
the  efforts  made  by  the  Republic  of  China  (Taiwan) 
to  reduce  tensions  across  the  Taiwan  Strait,  which 
have  contributed  significantly  to  ensuring  peace  and 
stability.
The Republic of Paraguay reiterates its commitment 
to  international  peace  and  security.  In  that  context, 
we reaffirm the political will to increase, to the extent 
practicable, our contribution of troops to peacekeeping 
operations  and 
train  and  equip 
peacekeeping  forces  in  accordance  with  standards 
established by the United Nations, so as to progressively 
to  continue 
to 
46/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
increase our participation in those missions. Regionally, 
we  recognize  the  progress  achieved  by  the  United 
Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti,  where  the 
presence of specialized personnel in Paraguay’s armed 
forces, working with other countries in our region, have 
played a significant role in humanitarian assistance and 
infrastructure  engineering  projects  and  in  improving 
the  long-term  standard  of  living  to  benefit  many 
generations of Haitians.
Since its inception, the United Nations has focused 
all  its  efforts  on  constantly  evolving  so  that  it  can 
become  a  global  structure  capable  of  meeting  the 
current  needs  of  Member  States.  It  is  in  the  desire 
for  such  evolution  that  Paraguay  supports  the  reform 
process for the Organization, thereby strengthening the 
General  Assembly,  which  will  lead  to  the  restoration 
of  functions  entrusted  to  that  body  by  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  as  the  Assembly  is  the  sole  body 
with universal representation. On the issue of Security 
Council  reform,  we  urge  that  such  reform  be  done  in 
accordance with the primary purpose of creating a more 
democratic Council. We can no longer delay expansion 
of  that  body.  The  Council  must  be  more  equitable, 
inclusive  and  democratic,  reflecting  the  number  of 
members  of  our  Organization.  We  must  improve  its 
working  methods  and  ensure  greater  transparency  in 
its management.
As  we  commemorate  in  2015  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, 
we hope to celebrate concrete results in the work of the 
Organization  that  transcend  the  mere  celebration  of 
the passage of time. We believe that consolidating the 
substantive post-2015 development agenda should lead 
to effective and real development for future generations. 
That is the greatest legacy we can leave.
Finally,  we  urge  the  General  Assembly  to  find 
more equitable and just means for establishing the list 
of speakers of Heads of State and Government for next 
year’s general debate.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Fernando Jorge Wahnon Ferreira, Chair 
of the delegation of the Republic of Cabo Verde.
Mr.  Ferreira  (Cabo  Verde)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  with 
great  pleasure,  Mr.  President,  that  we  participate 
in  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
under  your  presidency.  My  delegation  joins  previous 
delegations  in  congratulating  you  on  your  election, 
which simultaneously pays tribute to our sister nation of 
Uganda and recognizes your personal and professional 
qualities  as  an  experienced  diplomat.  We  wish  you 
success in carrying out your term and assure you, Sir, 
of the Cabo Verde delegation’s support and cooperation.
To your predecessor, the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador John Ashe, we would like to and express 
our recognition of and appreciation for the dedicated, 
dynamic and able manner in which he guided the work 
of  the  previous  session.  We  would  also  like  to  take 
this opportunity, on behalf of the Government of Cabo 
Verde,  to  congratulate  and  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts in seeking peace 
and  global  solutions  for  the  challenges  that  currently 
confront  us  and  require  shared  political  will  in  the 
pursuit of global solutions.
As a small island State, Cabo Verde is particularly 
grateful to the Secretary-General and the international 
community for convening, and the success achieved in, 
the  third  United  Nations  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States, held in Samoa. We also congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  initiative  in  convening 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Summit  2014,  as  the 
issue of climate change is of particular importance to 
island  States,  due  to  our  specific  vulnerabilities.  For 
us, finding solutions to the adverse effects of climate 
change  is  not  just  an  option,  but  a  matter  of  survival 
and territorial integrity, making it essential to mobilize 
the  political  will  and  international  cooperation  with 
respect  to  that  issue.  The  strategies  recently  agreed 
upon  in  Samoa  point  to  paths,  modalities  of  action 
and  effective  implementation  that  will  increase  those 
States’  resilience  and  make  them  better  equipped  to 
deal with the consequences of climate change.
Cabo  Verde  is  pleased  with  the  adoption  of 
urgent  measures  to  face  climate  change  as  one  of  the 
sustainable  development  goals.  The  achievement  of 
that goal requires development strategies and policies 
that will help create a more resilient planet Earth and 
strengthen the means of their implementation.
The data recently released in the fifth assessment 
report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
focus  our  attention  on  alarming  scenarios  resulting 
from the persistent increase in global warming, which 
will  put  the  more  vulnerable  countries  in  situations 
that  may  threaten  their  development.  It  should  be 
noted  that,  in  addition  to  other  consequences,  there 
will  be  an  increase  in  tropical  cyclones,  drought  and 
14-55200
47/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
desertification,  rising  sea  levels,  ocean  acidification, 
loss  of  biodiversity,  weak  agricultural  production  and 
food  insecurity.  For  the  Government  of  Cabo  Verde, 
it  is  important  to  ensure  that  the  negotiations  that 
will  take  place  next  December  in  Lima  translate  into 
significant progress with respect to the content of the 
new agreement to be signed in Paris in December 2015.
Raising  awareness  regarding  the  need  to  reduce 
the levels of global warming and to foster low-carbon 
economies  must  also  be  taken  into  consideration.  We 
support reducing global warming to under 1.5°C, which 
is both economically feasible and a basic requirement 
for sustainable global development. We also hope that, 
as we work towards the conversion of our interests, the 
foundational  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility  will  be  respected.  A  compensation 
mechanism  for  the  effective  and  full  implementation 
of  the  Warsaw  International  Mechanism  for  Loss  and 
Damage should be considered. We are convinced that, 
if  nothing  is  done,  the  consequences  resulting  from 
climate  change  will  affect  us  all  and  that  we  all  will 
pay  for  our  inaction.  As  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations likes to say, we are all in the same boat.
International  cooperation,  both  with  respect  to 
climate change and in other areas, is key. In order to be 
effective, it must be more consistent and pragmatic in 
national systems and international structures alike, and 
development financing for countries must be based on 
criteria reflecting their real needs and vulnerabilities.
We  hope  that  clear  directives  and  commitments 
are agreed upon in the next Conference on Financing 
for  Development,  to  be  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  July 
2015,  and  that  they  lead  the  way  to  achieving  the 
unfinished business of Millennium Development Goal 
8.  We  hope  that  they  will  ensure  the  redefinition  of 
the  criteria  for  the  allocation  of  financial  resources 
for  development  based  on  the  principles  adopted  in 
Paris  and  reaffirmed  in  Busan.  For  Cabo  Verde,  a 
country  that  recently  graduated  into  middle-income 
status,  albeit  lower-middle-income,  it  is  important 
that innovative mechanisms be designed to provide for 
greater  consistency  in  development  financing  and  to 
support economic sustainability.
The previous session of the General Assembly was 
convened under the theme “The post-2015 development 
agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  The  theme  chosen  for 
this  session  is  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”.  We 
are thus asked to take the next step — that is, to work 
on  the  adoption  of  a  people-centred  agenda  aiming 
to  eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  reduce  inequalities 
among  nations.  That  request  is  made  in  a  complex 
and  difficult  international  environment.  In  our  view, 
it  will  be  achievable  only  if  there  is  solidarity  and  if 
the  international  community  joins  forces  to  promote 
sustainable development.
The  results  achieved  under  the  framework  of  the 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
which conducted its work during the previous session of 
General Assembly, point to possible actions and options 
for  a  truly  transformative  post-2015  agenda.  With 
respect to Cape Verde, our country is close to achieving 
all  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  For 
us,  the  post-2015  agenda  must  reflect  all  lessons  and 
assessments  of  the  MDGs  and  other  internationally 
agreed goals, and the goals for 2030 must provide for 
the acceleration of the development process.
We would also like to briefly note that the twenty-
ninth  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
follow-up to the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference on Population and Development was held on 
22 September. The lesson that we can take away from 
that important event is that the post-2015 agenda must 
place people at the centre of the objectives and goals to 
be agreed upon, which also means rigorous respect for 
human  rights.  On  the  other  hand,  the  common  good, 
progress and the well-being of all citizens must be goals 
to  be  pursued  by  all  Governments  as  we  develop  and 
implement our development policies and programmes.
In  addition  to  being  a  matter  of  social  justice, 
ensuring gender equality and equity also turns out to be 
a smart choice, as no country can aspire to develop and 
establish  social  peace  and  cohesion  while  excluding 
a  significant  portion  of  its  population  —  that  is,  the 
female population.
is 
Gender-based  violence 
an  unacceptable 
phenomenon  in  our  societies.  The  Government  of 
Cabo Verde is committed to changing the reality in our 
country in a significant and positive way, even as we 
are aware that there still is much to do in that regard.
The issues related to international security and the 
threats  against  peace  that  they  represent  are  matters 
of  particular  concern.  The  recent  upsurge  in  acts 
of  terrorism  is  a  genuinely  dangerous  threat  to  the 
territorial  integrity  of  States  and  to  the  stability  of 
entire regions. The systematic and massive violation of 
human rights and the barbarism that has come with it are 
48/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
altogether unacceptable. The international community 
cannot allow this challenge to the humanistic values of 
our civilization, which are also enshrined and promoted 
by the United Nations. The Government of Cabo Verde 
therefore  vigorously  condemns  all  forms  of  terrorism 
and  calls  on  the  international  community  to  urgently 
take  appropriate  measures  to  stop  such  attempts  to 
wreak havoc and mete out suffering to innocent people.
recent 
developments  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  We 
believe  that  States  have  the  moral  obligation  and 
collective  duty  to  fight  against  the  subversion  of  the 
universal principles of peace, tolerance and respect for 
differences. We believe that the United Nations has an 
important role to play when it comes to respect for the 
principles  set  out  in  its  Charter  and  in  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
We  are  particularly  concerned  with 
Cabo  Verde  is  a  peace-loving  nation  that  favours 
dialogue  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes.  We 
believe in and defend the principles of the Charter, as 
well as observance of the standards of international law, 
respect for human rights and the promotion of human 
dignity.  As  a  result,  we  understand  that  no  State  or 
organization can replace the United Nations in playing 
its  fundamental  role  of  maintaining  global  peace  and 
security and that any use of force can be tolerated only 
when exercised within the framework of the principles 
set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
Cabo  Verde  sees  urgency  in  finding  a  solution 
for  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and  believes  that 
there  is  no  justification  for  the  deaths  of  thousands 
of  innocent  people,  the  unwarranted  suffering  of  an 
entire population and the desolation and destruction of 
infrastructure in the Gaza Strip. We therefore urge the 
parties to begin negotiations that lead to lasting peace 
and that allow both States, Israel and Palestine, to live 
side by side in security. We also consider it important 
to find a negotiated means to end the conflict in Syria 
and to open humanitarian aid corridors.
We  are  concerned  with  the  conflicts  that  persist 
on our continent, such as in Libya, the Central African 
Republic  and  the  Great  Lakes  region,  as  well  as  the 
actions of terrorist groups in Somalia, Mali and Nigeria. 
We  support  and  stand  side  by  side  with  the  African 
Union in finding solutions to the problems that affect 
peace  and  security  in  those  sister  nations  and  on  the 
continent in general.
In the context of Africa, we also wish to commend 
the  progress  achieved  in  the  Republic  of  Guinea-
Bissau,  its  return  to  constitutional  order  and  the 
re-establishment  of  democracy.  We  wish  our  sister 
nation the greatest success in the pursuit of peace and 
development.
In the West African subregion, the issue of security 
in  general  and  maritime  security  in  particular  is  of 
particular  concern  to  the  authorities  of  Cabo  Verde. 
Our  country  is  located  at  the  confluence  of  routes 
connecting  the  African,  European  and  American 
continents,  which  places  us  in  a  vulnerable  situation, 
as these routes are also used by transnational organized 
crime,  resulting  in  a  direct  threat  to  the  stability  of 
States and their democracies.
Cabo  Verde,  in  association  with  other  States 
and  organizations  in  the  United  Nations  system, 
has  attempted  to  combat  the  illegal  activities  that 
have  unfairly  punished  this  part  of  the  West  African 
subregion,  such  as  the  trafficking  in  drugs,  arms  and 
human  beings,  maritime  piracy,  terrorism  and  illegal 
fishing.  As  those  are  phenomena  of  a  transnational 
nature,  we  believe  that  no  country  in  the  subregion 
is  in  a  position  to  effectively  combat  them  without 
greater international cooperation and the combination 
of  efforts,  means  and  strategies.  Therefore,  we  would 
like  to  count  on  more  consistent  support  from  the 
international community.
The  Security  Council  has  rightly  determined 
that  the  current  Ebola  epidemic  in  West  Africa  is  a 
threat  to  international  security.  The  situation  in  the 
three  countries  most  affected  by  the  epidemic  should 
prompt the international community to engage in more 
organized and coordinated actions to provide aid, more 
effectively  save  lives  and  prevent  the  spread  of  the 
disease to neighbouring countries, to the rest of Africa 
and to the world.
Cabo  Verde  welcomes  and  supports  the  efforts 
made  by  all  nations  and  organizations  involved  in 
that  struggle,  particularly 
the  Secretary-General’s 
initiatives in that regard. The inclusion of this issue in 
the Security Council agenda, the adoption of resolution 
2177 (2014) by unanimity, and the debate that followed 
(see  S/PV.7268)  are  an  unequivocal  expression  of  the 
international  community’s  awareness  of  the  priority 
that must be given to the efforts to halt and control the 
epidemic, which could have catastrophic consequences 
for our affected sister nations, particularly the Republics 
14-55200
49/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
of  Guinea,  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia,  to  which  Cabo 
Verde offers its friendship and solidarity.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate.
Two Member States have asked to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first intervention and five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Pavlichenko  (Ukraine):  First  of  all,  I  would 
like to thank the delegations of the Member States that 
strongly  supported  the  sovereignty  and  the  territorial 
integrity  of  Ukraine  in  the  most  difficult  time  in 
our  history.  By  their  courageous  positions,  they  not 
only  support  Ukraine  but  also  uphold  key  principles 
embodied in the Charter of the United Nations.
As  a  sign  of  our  deep  appreciation,  we  have 
presented to each delegation a personalized multimedia 
album  dedicated  to  the  events  in  Ukraine.  We  hope 
that the albums will help foster a better understanding 
of the very nature of the recent events in my country 
and demonstrate how important the role of the United 
Nations  could  be  for  preserving  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  its  Member  States,  particularly 
when we all stand united.
We were surprised by some statements made by the 
delegation of the Russian Federation in this Hall during 
the general debate as well as at some other high-level 
events  at  the  margins  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is 
trying to convince others that the occupation of Crimea 
and the aggressive actions in the east of Ukraine were 
provoked by Western countries and that what is going 
on  in  Ukraine  is  a  mere  reflection  of  a  confrontation 
between the West and Russia.
That  is  a  very  strange  position.  The  truth  is  that 
Ukraine has never been the victim either of Europe or 
of the United States. It was the Kremlin leaders whose 
ambitions caused the barbaric aggression and violence 
against its neighbouring nation. It was Moscow, not the 
Western States, that grabbed part of our territory and 
now is trying to justify its deeds by referring to some 
ambiguous historical justice while fragrantly violating 
clear  norms  of  international  law,  including  bilateral 
treaties  with  Ukraine  on  friendship  and  borders 
between States.
The Kremlin unleashed the brutal war not against 
the  Western  world  but  against  formerly  friendly 
Ukraine, a country that is economically and militarily 
weak, a country whose budget had been systematically 
and shamelessly plundered by the now-toppled regime 
of a corrupt and kleptocratic authoritarian leader. The 
mere  reason  for  this  brutal  war  was  the  sovereign 
choice of people of Ukraine to be part of the European 
family  of  nations,  with  a  democratic  and  responsible 
Government  respecting  and  protecting  human  rights 
and freedoms.
Therefore,  we  find  quite  cynical  the  Moscow 
authorities’  initiative  to  have  voted  in  favour  of  a 
General  Assembly  declaration  on  the  inadmissibility 
of  interference  into  domestic  affairs  of  sovereign 
States and non-recognition of coups d’état as a method 
of  changing  power.  Perhaps  I  am  disappointing 
some  people  by  referring  to  the  Declaration  on  the 
Inadmissibility of Intervention and Interference in the 
Internal Affairs of States (resolution 36/103), which the 
General Assembly adopted so long ago.
The  Declaration,  which  the  Assembly  adopted  in 
1981, inter alia provides for the clear duty of States to 
refrain in their international relations from the threat or 
use of force in any form whatsoever and to refrain from 
armed intervention, subversion, military occupation or 
any other form of intervention and interference, overt 
or covert, directed at another State or group of States 
or any of military, political or economic interference in 
the internal affairs of another State.
We  do  not  think  there  is  a  need  to  reinvent  the 
wheel.  Rather,  it  is  time  to  start  respecting  and 
observing the decisions taken by the General Assembly 
and  the  binding  standards  of  international  law.  We 
believe that time will put everything into perspective, 
and will reaffirm that despite the Moscow authorities’ 
aggressive  campaign  against  my  country,  the  Russian 
and  Ukrainian  peoples  will  remain  friends  and  share 
common civilized values.
Mr.  Zagaynov 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  The  statement  we  just  heard  by  the 
representative of the Ukrainian delegation once again 
reiterated  unfounded  accusations  directed  at  Russia. 
It  is  regrettable  that  Ukraine  persists  in  its  efforts  to 
use the various forums of the United Nations, including 
the  General  Assembly,  to  repeat  its  fabrications  and 
an  interpretation  of  events  that  is  wildly  distant  from 
reality.  The  Ukrainian  delegation’s  rhetoric  is  badly 
50/52 
14-55200
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.20
out  of  line  with  the  spirit  and  logic  of  the  ceasefire 
agreement  reached  in  September  on  the  basis  of  the 
initiative of the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia.
Russia’s  assessment  of  what  has  happened  in 
Ukraine  and  is  happening  now  was  laid  out  in  detail 
in the statement delivered by the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Russian Federation on 27 September (see 
A/69/PV.15),  and  I  will  not  repeat  it.  I  would  merely 
like to direct the Assembly’s attention to his words on 
the necessity of establishing peace and political order in 
Ukraine on the basis of a broad national dialogue, and 
to Russia’s readiness to assist in establishing that order, 
including  within  the  framework  of  the  exceedingly 
useful Minsk process. I would once again like to urge 
the Ukrainian delegation to work actively to achieve the 
Minsk agreement.
Statement by the President
The President: Throughout the past week we have 
gathered  here  in  this  very  newly  renovated  Hall  to 
share our hopes and visions for the future. We reflected 
collectively  on  the  challenges  confronting  us,  as  well 
as  the  opportunities  we  must  take  advantage  of,  both 
as  individual  societies  and  members  of  the  greater 
world community. I thank each and every speaker who 
participated  in  the  general  debate  for  taking  the  time 
to address the Assembly at this pivotal moment in the 
history  of  our  Organization.  The  participation  of  117 
Heads of State and Government, three Vice-Presidents, 
eight  Deputy  Prime  Ministers,  56  Ministers,  seven  
Heads of delegation, one Head of State and one Head 
of  Government  of  Observer  States  and  one  observer 
attests to the importance and value that Member States 
and observers attach to the Organization.
I would like to briefly highlight some of the major 
issues examined during the debate that will deserve our 
attention over the next 12 months.
Many speakers focused on the theme of this year’s 
general  debate,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”.  They 
stressed  the  importance  of  building  on  the  successes 
and  momentum  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  formulating  an  ambitious,  inclusive  and 
transformative  development  agenda  that  can  produce 
tangible  benefits  and  improve  the  livelihoods  of  all 
peoples.  They  highlighted  the  importance  of  placing 
the eradication of poverty and hunger at the core of the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  and  underscored  the 
need for adequate means of implementation for the new 
fulfilling 
overseas 
development 
development  agenda,  in  terms  of  financial  resources, 
capacity-building  and  technology  development  and 
transfer.  Several  speakers  stressed  the  importance 
of 
assistance 
commitments  and  called  for  an  enhanced  global 
partnership  for  development.  The  important  role  that 
the  private  sector,  civil  society  and  multi-stakeholder 
groups  should  play  was  also  emphasized.  Many 
delegations  called  for  a  fairer  global  trading  regime 
and  for  continued  reform  of  the  global  economic 
governance and international financial institutions, in 
order to make them more responsive to the needs of all 
nations, especially developing countries.
Peace  and  security  issues  featured  prominently 
in  the  debate,  with  many  speakers  expressing  grave 
concern about the increasing threat posed by terrorists 
and extremist groups such as the Islamic State in Iraq 
and  Syria,  Al-Qaida,  Al-Shabaab,  Boko  Haram  and 
others.  Underlining  the  importance  of  addressing  the 
danger  posed  by  terrorists,  world  leaders  called  for  a 
unified  global  response  to  combat  them  effectively. 
Many  speakers  emphasized  that  such  groups  did  not 
merely  constitute  a  regional  challenge  but  were  a 
serious  danger  to  international  peace  and  security, 
and  stressed  the  importance  of  further  strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  subregional  organizations  in  order  to  optimize 
synergy and their respective capacities.
On  health  issues,  the  rampant  spread  of  Ebola  in 
West  Africa  was  prominent  during  the  debate,  with 
many  speakers  urging  immediate,  coordinated  action 
to  stem  the  outbreak.  Delegations  expressed  serious 
concern  about  the  catastrophic  loss  of  life  caused  by 
Ebola as well as the unrest, social tension and negative 
impact on political and socioeconomic progress it has 
produced in the affected countries of Guinea, Liberia 
and  Sierra  Leone.  The  devastation  that  Ebola  has 
inflicted on already fragile health-care systems in the 
affected  countries  was  of  particular  concern.  Leaders 
pledged 
the  Secretary-General’s 
newly  established  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola 
Emergency  Response,  and  welcomed  the  national, 
regional  and  international  efforts  to  combat  Ebola. 
Many  delegations  stressed  the  importance  of  paying 
greater  attention  to  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
and  tuberculosis  as  well  as  other  communicable  and 
non-communicable diseases.
their  support 
to 
High  unemployment  rates  were  also  a  key  focus 
in  the  debate,  with  many  expressing  concern  about 
14-55200
51/52
A/69/PV.20 
29/09/2014
the  destabilizing  effects  of  persistent  unemployment. 
Many  speakers  said  that  the  increasing  levels  of 
unemployment  among  young  people  were  especially 
troubling, and called for strategies and policies aimed 
at creating more job opportunities.
their  accomplishments,  ambitions,  hopes  and  fears. 
The general debate is indeed the world’s premier global 
political  stage.  It  serves  as  a  unique  opportunity  to 
recall the intrinsic value of our mutual engagement in 
the work of the Organization.
speakers  underscored 
While  recognizing  that  some  progress  had  been 
made  in  promoting  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment,  many 
the 
importance  of  greater  attention  to  and  action  on 
those  issues.  A  number  of  delegations  stressed  that 
without  women’s  active  participation  in  all  facets  of 
life, societies would continue to fail to reach their full 
potential.  Improving  the  safety  and  equality  of  girls’ 
access to education was another common theme.
On  the  environment,  speakers  stressed  the  need 
for  comprehensive  action  on  climate  change,  calling 
for  a  unified  approach  to  the  issue,  since  time  was 
running  out  for  addressing  threats  such  as  pollution, 
rising sea levels, desertification and land degradation. 
Many  delegations  welcomed  the  Secretary-General’s 
Climate Summit initiative and called for a commitment 
to  concluding  a  global  agreement  in  2015  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change.
The  importance  of  promoting  the  rule  of  law, 
good  governance  and  respect  for  human  rights  as 
prerequisites for the achievement of sustainable growth 
and  development  was  emphasized.  Delegations  noted 
that respect for international law, norms and principles 
were  critical  to  international  peace  and  security.  On 
human rights, several speakers emphasized the central 
role of human rights as one of the United Nations pillars, 
noting that discrimination based on religion, gender or 
any other consideration should not be tolerated.
Many  delegations  called  for  Security  Council 
reform and the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
Speakers emphasized that Security Council membership 
did  not  adequately  reflect  today’s  realities  and  called 
for a more representative Council.
The  general  debate  continues  to  serve  as  an 
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  come 
together under one roof to explore the world’s current 
state  of  affairs.  It  is  a  one-of-a-kind  opportunity  for 
Member  States  to  share  with  a  worldwide  audience 
I would like to suggest that in future we consider 
rationalizing  the  number  of  meetings  and  side  events 
held  in  the  margins  of  the  general  debate  to  enable 
greater focus on the matters being discussed here in the 
General Assembly Hall.
Let me take this opportunity to urge each and every 
member to approach our work over the next year with 
a  spirit  of  cooperation  and  optimism,  inspired  by  the 
belief  that  together  we  can  make  a  difference.  As  we 
have seen during the general debate, we certainly have 
our  work  cut  out  for  us.  Most  important,  we  need  to 
formulate  an  ambitious  and  inclusive  transformative 
agenda and accompany it with adequate means for its 
implementation. Let us take on that responsibility and 
all the challenges we must address with a wholehearted 
belief  that  as  a  unified  body  we  can  make  real  and 
meaningful  change  in  the  livelihoods  of  humankind 
and the health of our planet.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
8?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 136 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Letter from the Secretary-General (A/69/374/Add.1)
The President: In his letter, the Secretary-General 
informs  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  that, 
since the issuance of his communication contained in 
document A/69/374, the Central African Republic has 
made the payment necessary to reduce its arrears below 
the amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes 
note of the information contained in that document?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3 p.m.
52/52 
14-55200
