United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
51st plenary meeting
Friday, 14 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Agenda items 13 and 115
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
(a) Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Draft resolution (A/69/L.6)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/201)
The  President:  In  relation  to  the  report  of  the 
Intergovernmental Committee of Experts on Sustainable 
Development Financing, submitted under sub-item (a) 
of agenda item 13 and agenda item 115, and circulated 
in  document  A/69/315,  a  dedicated  plenary  meeting 
will be held at a later date to consider the report.
Mrs.  Daniel  (Nauru):  Nauru  has  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States 
(AOSIS). We align ourselves with the statement to be 
delivered by the representative of Bolivia on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China.
At 
the  outset,  I  would 
to  once  again 
congratulate the Government and the people of Samoa 
on  hosting  the  very  successful  Third  International 
Conference on Small Island Developing States (SIDS). 
like 
As 
We  also  acknowledge  the  leadership  and  efforts  of 
those  who  contributed  to  and  played  an  instrumental 
role in achieving a strong outcome document, the SIDS 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway 
(Samoa  Pathway).  The  Samoa  Pathway  has  made  its 
place in the United Nations history books as the first-
ever United Nations conference to close its negotiations 
in New York and thereby allow the time in Samoa to be 
used to deepen discussions on partnerships.
the  General  Assembly  adopts 
the  outcome  of 
the  draft 
resolution  containing 
the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States  (A/69/L.6),  allow  me  to  highlight  a  few  key 
points. Despite progress in addressing our challenges, 
SIDS  still  experience  gaps  in  the  implementation  of 
the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius 
Strategy  for 
the 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of Small Island Developing States. The Samoa Pathway, 
if fully implemented, will set the course for a shift in 
the way we collaborate on development.
the  Further  Implementation  of 
The  Samoa  Pathway  is  a  concise,  focused  and 
action-oriented document that requires us to move away 
from the business-as-usual approach. Providing a road 
map and an implementable strategy is only a first step. 
The question now is: How can we effectively implement 
the Pathway and deliver on the commitments made to 
SIDS? And how do we make sure that no SIDS are left 
behind in the post-2015 development agenda?
First,  meeting  the  sustainable  development  needs 
of SIDS requires efforts from all of us. The theme of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-62672 (E)
*1462672*
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
that  commitments  have  been  made 
the Conference — the sustainable development of SIDS 
through genuine and durable partnerships — highlighted 
the  fact 
to 
strengthen international cooperation at all levels. The 
Conference  stressed  that  such  partnerships  should  be 
based on mutual trust and accountability and that SIDS 
should be equal partners in them. Genuine and durable 
partnerships are key for supporting the implementation 
of our concrete targets and goals. They must involve the 
private sector, civil society, youth, women, persons with 
disabilities  and  older  persons.  Capacity-building  and 
institution-strengthening for SIDS, rather than endless 
workshops, are critical for SIDS to take ownership of 
their sustainable development and build their resilience.
For our partners, more discipline will be required 
to  fulfil  long-standing  promises  in  the  form  of 
commitments  that  give  us  the  tools  and  resources 
we need to plan for the future. For our part, we must 
exercise more discipline when it comes to identifying 
where  we  most  need  support  and  demonstrating  that 
investments  are  put  to  good  use.  The  international 
and  regional  systems  must  build  an  implementation 
mechanism that ensures that our goals are met and that 
makes corrections if we start to veer off course.
In  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  we  welcome  the 
approximately  300  partnerships  registered  in  Samoa 
that address key SIDS priorities: sustainable economic 
development,  climate  change  and  disaster 
risk 
management,  oceans,  seas  and  biodiversity,  social 
development  in  SIDS,  health  and  non-communicable 
diseases, youth and women, sustainable energy, water 
and sanitation, food security and waste management.
effective 
partnerships 
and 
Secondly, 
implementation 
requires 
sufficient and predictable means, including financing, 
capacity-building, technology transfer, data collection 
and  management, 
technical 
cooperation,  and  institutional  support.  The  provision 
of adequate means of implementation will help deliver 
on  all  commitments.  In  this  connection,  we  stress 
the  importance  of  including  SIDS  priorities  in  the 
discussions and future outcome of the third international 
conference  on  financing  for  development,  which  will 
be  one  of  the  important  inputs  regarding  means  of 
implementation for the post-2015 development agenda.
Thirdly,  we  need  to  track  progress.  We  need  a 
robust  global  monitoring  system  that  strengthens 
accountability  at  all  levels  in  the  follow-up  to  the 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, 
the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
of the Barbados Programme of Action for Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  and 
the Samoa Pathway.
The review of the United Nations system’s support 
to SIDS, which was agreed in Apia, will most certainly 
contribute to improving accountability and improving 
the delivery of commitments made for the sustainable 
development  of  SIDS.  This  will  allow  the  United 
Nations  system  to  be  more  effective  as  a  key  partner 
and  may  also  require  the  SIDS  to  ready  themselves 
for  global  development  shifts.  We  should  prepare  to 
transform  the  Samoa  Pathway  into  action  including 
through  national  sustainable  development  strategies 
and goals. We look forward to the Secretary-General’s 
recommendations  on  parameters  for  this  review.  The 
role  of  the  high-level  political  forum  in  the  follow-up 
to the implementation of the Samoa Pathway is critical. 
We reiterate our strong request that the adequate time 
of a full day be allocated to the follow-up on the Samoa 
Pathway in the body’s meetings.
Lastly,  the  Samoa  Pathway  is  a  fundamental  and 
critical  road  map  for  us  SIDS.  However,  it  will  not 
deliver  on  its  objective  of  achieving  our  sustainable 
development  if  it  is  not  integrated  in  the  relevant 
processes  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  An 
inclusive post-2015 development agenda must address 
the  needs  and  priorities  of  countries  in  particular 
situations,  such  as  SIDS.  Not  addressing  climate 
change or ocean degradation, which are two of the main 
development inhibitors for SIDS, will result in leaving 
many behind.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  sincere 
gratitude to our colleagues and partners who have heard 
SIDS’ concerns throughout the process and have made 
efforts  in  reaching  consensus.  It  is  my  sincere  hope 
that the next international conference of SIDS will not 
include a section entitled “Implementation gaps”.
Mr.  Tupouniua  (Tonga):  I  am  honoured  to  be 
speaking  on  behalf  of  the  12  Pacific  small  island 
developing States (SIDS) present at the United Nations, 
namely,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji, 
Kiribati,  the  Republic  of  Marshall  Islands,  Nauru, 
Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Samoa,  Solomon  Islands, 
Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own country Tonga.
At the outset, the Pacific SIDS would like to align 
themselves with the statement just delivered on behalf 
of the Alliance of Small Island States. 
2/12 
14-62672
14/11/2014 
A/69/PV.51
I 
take 
to  profoundly 
this  opportunity 
thank 
and  congratulate  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa on the memorable hosting 
of the Third International Conference on Small Island 
Developing States, in September this year. Also, as the 
region that played host to the Conference for the first 
time ever, we are particularly proud of its success. Our 
gratitude also extends to the co-Chairs, New Zealand 
and Singapore, the members of the bureau, the United 
Nations Secretariat and all participants that contributed.
The  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA)  Pathway  (Samoa  Pathway),  which  we  look 
forward to adopting, reaffirms the special case of SIDS 
and  the  vulnerabilities  and  challenges  they  face  with 
regard    to  the  effects  of  natural  disasters  and  climate 
change, among other things, and stresses the continued 
importance  of 
international 
community in pursuit of sustainable development.
the  support  of 
the 
The Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States  is  a 
crucial blueprint for broad-based improvements to the 
welfare of populations in all islands. It recognizes that 
for sustainable development to be possible, islands must 
take requisite actions in all three dimensions — social, 
environmental  and  economic.  The  plan  elaborates  a 
detailed road map — based on actions across 20 different 
headings,  from  climate  change  to  marine  resources, 
tourism to trade, and health to culture — that is one of 
the more detailed and valuable outputs that has resulted 
from cooperative action among small island developing 
States in all regions.
acknowledge 
However,  Pacific  SIDS 
that 
implementation of the Mauritius Strategy has at times 
been  uneven.  Some  islands  especially  affected  by  the 
global  economic  recession  have  regressed.  In  spite  of 
the  considerable  efforts  of  Pacific  States,  many  have 
been  unable  to  attain  internationally  agreed  goals 
and targets, including those set out in the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  These 
shortfalls  are  best 
understood as a reflection of the enormous challenges 
faced by Pacific SIDS and by SIDS globally. With low 
agricultural capacity, a small base of natural resources 
and  some  unique  infrastructure  challenges,  often 
compounded by geographic remoteness, SIDS face a set 
of  additional  hurdles  in  efforts  to  promote  sustained, 
inclusive,  and  equitable  economic  growth.  And  these 
challenges are compounded by the reality of escalating 
adverse  impacts  of  climate  change.  Extreme  weather 
events, rising sea levels and ocean acidification, among 
other impacts, will make it harder to accomplish gains 
in sustainable development.
in  Samoa,  whose 
These issues were emphasized by the International 
Conference 
theme  was  “The 
sustainable  development  of  small  island  developing 
States  through  genuine  and  durable  partnerships”. 
The  Samoa  Pathway  follows  the  Mauritius  Strategy 
in  specifying  actions  that  SIDS,  together  with  their 
partners, can undertake in a variety of areas to further 
all  three  pillars  of  sustainable  development.  As  the 
theme  of  the  SIDS  Conference  stressed,  partnerships 
and  the  support  of  the  international  community  are 
critical  to  success.  Pacific  SIDS  welcome  the  annual 
adoption by consensus of resolutions on this topic as an 
important signal of that continued genuine and durable 
partnership.
Now  the  time  for  implementation  has  come. 
Already  we  are  working  in  the  Second  Committee  to 
follow up on three key areas: first, how to monitor the 
success  of  the  partnerships  announced  in  Samoa,  as 
well as future partnerships; secondly, how to continue 
the conversation in future United Nations deliberations, 
including the high-level political forum; and thirdly, how 
United Nations support for SIDS can be strengthened. 
How  we  define  the  follow-up  will  determine  how  the 
commitments made will be translated to success on the 
ground.
Finally, we Pacific SIDS reiterate our commitment 
to  taking  ownership  and  leadership  and  to  working 
with  relevant  stakeholders  at  all  levels  in  ensuring 
that  the  Samoa  Pathway  attains  the  success  that  it 
deserves, while also laying a solid foundation that will 
serve  as  a  springboard  that  complements  the  pursuit 
of the sustainable development goals set by the global 
community.
Mr. Rattray (Jamaica): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the 14 States members of the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM). CARICOM aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Nauru on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States.
At  the  outset,  CARICOM  wishes  to  reiterate  its 
gratitude to the Government of Samoa for hosting the 
successful  Third  International  Conference  on  Small 
Island  Developing  States.  The  pride  of  the  Samoan 
people  permeated  every  aspect  of  the  Conference  in 
Apia.  We  wish  also  to  acknowledge  the  support  of 
14-62672
3/12
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
Member States and the United Nations system during 
the preparatory process and the Conference itself. 
The  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  faced 
by  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS),  which 
constrain  our  development,  are  well  known.  As  such, 
the  international  community  recognized  SIDS  as  a 
special case for sustainable development in Agenda 21. 
That recognition is echoed in the Barbados Programme 
of  Action,  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  and  now 
the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) 
Pathway (Samoa Pathway).
For CARICOM, the Third International Conference 
on  Small  Island  Developing  States  and  its  outcome 
document,  the  Samoa  Pathway,  embody  a  renewed 
global commitment to supporting SIDS in their efforts 
to  achieve  sustainable  development.  The  outcome 
document,  by  building  on  the  lessons  learned  since 
the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius 
Strategy,  provides  SIDS  with  a  renewed  vision  and 
road  map  for  sustainable  development.  Accordingly, 
the  need  for  the  full  and  effective  implementation 
of  the  Samoa  Pathway  cannot  be  overstated.  In  that 
regard,  CARICOM  member  States  look  forward  to 
working  with  stakeholders  at  the  national,  regional 
and  international  levels.  We  also  look  forward  to  the 
creation of the partnership framework, as called for in 
paragraph 101 of the Samoa Pathway, which will play 
an integral role in ensuring the effective follow-up and 
review of the 300 partnerships and initiatives registered 
in Samoa, with a total value of $1.9 billion reflected in 
pledges.
The  adoption  of  the  Samoa  Pathway  comes  at 
a  critical  moment  for  us,  as  we  find  ourselves  on  the 
cusp  of  deliberations  on  the  elaboration  of  a  post-
2015 development agenda that must set the world on a 
sustainable development course for current and future 
generations.  That  agenda  must  be  underpinned  by  a 
strong  commitment  to  an  inclusive,  transformative, 
people-centred  development  agenda  with  poverty 
eradication  at  its  core.  The  post-2015  development 
agenda  must  also  recognize  the  differences  among 
countries  and 
those 
differences within the context of the new development 
agenda.
to  accommodate 
the  need 
CARICOM firmly believes that the Samoa Pathway 
constitutes  a  foundational  input  to  shape  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  taking  into  consideration 
the  unique  and  particular  challenges  that  SIDS  face, 
including areas such as access to concessional financing 
for  development,  debt  relief,  poverty  eradication,  the 
scourge  of  non-communicable  diseases,  challenges 
in  the  development  and  management  of  statistics  and 
statistical  systems,  climate  change  adaptation  and 
mitigation,  and  technology  transfer  and  capacity-
building.  We  call  on  Member  States  to  integrate 
SIDS  priorities  into  the  elaboration  of  a  post-2015 
development agenda.
CARICOM  also  recognizes  the  role  of  the  high-
level  political  forum  on  sustainable  development  in 
providing oversight for the SIDS agenda. In that regard, 
we  reiterate  the  call  for  priority  to  be  given  to  SIDS 
issues  on  the  forum’s  agenda  and  for  the  forum  to 
provide the necessary monitoring and follow-up of the 
Barbados Programme of Action, the Mauritius Strategy 
and the Samoa Pathway.
Mr. Neo (Singapore): At the outset, Singapore aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Nauru on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States 
(AOSIS).
Just  over  two  months  ago,  Samoa  hosted  the 
highly  successful  Third  International  Conference 
on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  in  Apia,  from 
1  to  4  September.  Our  warmest  congratulations  and 
heartfelt  thanks  go  to  the  Government  and  people  of 
Samoa for their wonderful hospitality and for ensuring 
that the Conference was a resounding success.
The  adoption  of  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities 
of Action (SAMOA) Pathway (Samoa Pathway) by the 
Conference  was  the  culmination  of  many  months  of 
hard  work  by  all  stakeholders  involved.  It  was  also  a 
testament  to  the  goodwill  and  spirit  of  international 
cooperation that were so evident during the negotiation 
process.  As  co-Chair  of  the  Preparatory  Committee 
of  the  Conference,  Singapore  was  privileged  to  play 
a  small  role  by  ensuring  that  the  negotiations  on  the 
Samoa Pathway were concluded in a timely fashion in 
New York, ahead of the Conference itself.
Now  that  the  Conference  is  over,  we  need  keep 
up the momentum to focus on the full implementation 
of  the  Samoa  Pathway  and  the  many  partnerships 
launched at the Conference. In that regard, Singapore 
4/12 
14-62672
14/11/2014 
A/69/PV.51
sees the adoption of the Samoa Pathway by the General 
Assembly  as  a  crucial  milestone.  It  will  signal  the 
international community’s continuing commitment and 
resolve to ensure the full implementation of the Samoa 
Pathway.
Singapore  is  happy  to  do  its  part  to  implement 
the  Samoa  Pathway  and  has  prepared  a  dedicated 
three-year  technical  cooperation  package  for  small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS)  under  the  Singapore 
Cooperation  Programme.  The  package  will  provide 
further customized technical assistance and fellowships 
in  areas  that  are  relevant  to  the  capacity-building 
needs of SIDS. That includes customized programmes 
for  senior  SIDS  officials  in  areas  such  as  sustainable 
development and climate change, disaster management, 
public  health  and  non-traditional  security.  Singapore 
will also offer 150 civil aviation fellowships for courses 
at the Singapore Aviation Academy and 30 fellowship 
awards  for  the  Maritime  Public  Leaders’  Programme 
conducted  by  the  Maritime  and  Port  Authority  of 
Singapore. We hope that those programmes will make 
a  meaningful  contribution  to  the  implementation  of 
the  Samoa  Pathway  through  capacity-building  and 
increased  resilience.  Singapore  stands  ready  to  work 
with our fellow SIDS and our partners in making the 
Samoa Pathway a reality.
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  We  welcome  the  outcomes  of  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  in  Apia.  We  thank  the  Government  and  people 
of Samoa for their superb organization of that important 
meeting and for their hospitality. We view the outcome 
document  of  the  Conference,  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action 
(Samoa 
Pathway), as a key benchmark for international efforts 
to ensure the sustainable development of that category 
of  countries  and  as  a  much-needed  contribution  to 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  post-2015 
development agenda.
(SAMOA)  Pathway 
to  small 
its  donor  assistance 
Guided  by  friendly  relations  and  responsible 
partnership,  the  Russian  Federation  has  consistently 
increased 
island 
developing  States.  Our  overall  assistance  to  that 
category of countries for the past four years stands at 
about $20 million. We focus our assistance on existing, 
critically  important  areas,  in  particular  modernizing 
infrastructure,  strengthening  public  administration 
mechanisms,  developing  trade  potential,  improving 
educational 
systems  and  health  care,  ensuring 
energy  security  and  enhancing  resilience  to  natural 
disasters.  Our  goal  is  to  draw  on  existing  capacities 
and  experience  in  practical  cooperation  to  ensure 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  Samoa  Pathway 
programme. As a first step, we are currently exploring 
the possibility of collaborating with the United Nations 
Development Programme on a major long-term project 
to  improve  disaster  preparedness  for  small  island 
developing States.
To conclude, allow me to say that we support the 
adoption by the General Assembly of draft resolution 
A/69/L.6, on the Samoa Pathway.
Ms.  Chen  Yingzhu  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
China  welcomes  the  Third  International  Conference 
on  Small  Island  Developing  States  (SIDS),  which  was 
successfully  held  from  1  to  4  September  in  Apia.  We 
also  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  outcome  document, 
the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA) 
Pathway (Samoa Pathway). We would like to express our 
appreciation to the United Nations and the host country  
Samoa for their work.
We support the proposal adopted at the Conference 
on the establishment of effective long-term partnerships 
to promote the sustainable development of small island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  and  focus  attention  on  the 
development concerns of SIDS. In China’s view, looking 
forward, we should concentrate on the following areas. 
First, we should take on the challenge of climate change 
together. Secondly, we should formulate the post-2015 
development agenda as scheduled. Thirdly, we should 
earnestly  implement  our  commitment  to  international 
cooperation  for  development.  Fourthly,  we  should 
establish  a  more  rational  international  system  of 
governance.
In  recent  years  China  has  furthered  its  practical 
cooperation with SIDS and has proved itself an honest, 
lasting and reliable partner for them. Since the beginning 
of  this  year  China  has  provided  23  SIDS  with  235 
assistance projects amounting to a total of ¥1.5 billion. 
In November 2013, our Government announced that it 
would provide ¥1 billion in concessional loans to SIDS 
of  the  region.  Meanwhile,  the  China  Development 
Bank  has  announced  a  $1-billion  special  loan  to 
support 
infrastructure  development,  water  supply 
facilities, small hydropower stations, ecological farms 
and  bio-gas  technologies  in  SIDS.  We  are  focusing 
on  helping  these  countries  remove  the  bottlenecks  in 
their sustainable development.  In the future China will 
work  with  the  countries  concerned  on  implementing 
14-62672
5/12
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
the Samoa Pathway and will continue with its efforts to 
help them achieve sustainable development.
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States”.
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker 
in the debate on these items. We shall now proceed to 
consider draft resolution A/69/L.6.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): In connection 
with  draft 
resolution  A/69/L.6,  entitled  “SIDS 
Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway”, 
I  wish  to  put  on  the  record  the  following  statement 
of  financial  implications  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-
General,  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraphs  101,  119  and 
124 (b) of the outcome document, which is annexed to 
draft resolution A/69/L.6, the General Assembly would 
request  the  Secretary-General,  in  consultation  with 
Member States, to present recommendations, including 
through the use of intergovernmental mechanisms, for 
a partnership framework to monitor and ensure the full 
implementation  of  pledges  and  commitments  through 
partnerships for small island developing States (SIDS). 
The  framework  should  ensure  that  partnerships  focus 
on  the  priorities  of  small  island  developing  States, 
identify new opportunities to advance the sustainable 
development  of  and  ensure  the  full  implementation 
of  the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action,  the  Mauritius 
Strategy  and  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  (Samoa  Pathway).  The 
recommendations  should  be  presented  to  the  General 
Assembly for consideration and action at its sixty-ninth 
session.
The  Assembly  would  request  that  the  Secretary-
General conduct a comprehensive review of the United 
Nations  system’s  support  for  small  island  developing 
States with a view to enhancing the overall effectiveness 
of such support and the respective roles in supporting 
the development of small island developing States, and 
would  invite  the  General  Assembly,  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session,  to  determine  the  parameters  of  the  review. 
The  Assembly  would  also  request  the  Secretary-
General, building on previous reports, to provide to the 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  the  findings  of  the 
review and his recommendations thereon in his regular 
report  entitled  “Follow-up  to  and  implementation  of 
the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
The  Assembly  would  request  the  Department  of 
Economic  and  Social  Affairs  to  continue  to  maintain 
a  partnerships  platform  focused  on  the  small  island 
developing  States  and 
the 
inter-agency  consultative  group  to  report  on  the  full 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, 
the  Mauritius  Strategy  and  the  Samoa  Pathway,  with 
adequate and timely analysis based on relevant targets 
and  indicators  relevant  to  small  island  developing 
States, in order to ensure accountability at all levels.
to  regularly  convene 
The  Samoa  Pathway  calls  on  the  United  Nations 
system to continue to support small island developing 
States  in  pursuing  their  sustainable  development  and 
implementation  of  the  Samoa  Pathway.  It  assigns 
enhanced responsibilities to the Department of Economic 
and  Social  Affairs  (DESA).  While  interdepartmental 
collaboration  will  be  pursued  whenever  possible,  the 
Department of Economic and Social Affairs will take 
the  lead  in  coordinating  implementation  and  follow-
up  to  the  outcome  document,  keeping  Member  States 
informed,  through  solid  analysis  and  data,  as  well  as 
monitoring  and  reporting  on  implementation  and  the 
partnerships that were announced before and during the 
Samoa Conference.
Pursuant 
is  undertaking 
to  paragraph  101  of 
the  outcome 
document,  DESA 
the  necessary 
consultations with Member States. At the end of 2014, 
it will conduct a survey to elicit Member States’ views 
on the kind of partnership framework that would best 
enable monitoring and ensure the full implementation 
of  commitments  made  through  partnerships.  It  will 
also consult other stakeholders engaged in partnerships 
through expert group meetings and other channels. 
In  September  2015,  the  General  Assembly  is 
expected to provide further guidance on the framework, 
based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-
General. The framework is expected to include, among 
other  elements,  a  Web-based  partnerships  platform, 
for  which  the  Department  has  already  developed  a 
prototype. Linking the follow-up to partnerships from 
Samoa with the track following up on the 2012 United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  will  allow  the  SIDS  partnership  framework 
to benefit from lessons learned and synergies with the 
Rio+20 partnership follow-up.
6/12 
14-62672
14/11/2014 
A/69/PV.51
With regard to the request contained in paragraph 
119, the General Assembly is invited to determine the 
parameters  of  the  review  of  United  Nations  system 
support  to  SIDS  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  It  should 
be  noted  that  in  paragraph  9  of  draft  resolution 
A/C.2/69/L.24,  which  is  under  consideration  by  the 
Second  Committee,  the  Assembly  would  request  the 
Joint  Inspection  Unit  to  provide  recommendations  to 
assist  the  Assembly  in  determining  the  parameters 
of  the  review.  Given  that  consultations  regarding  the 
partnership  framework  and  the  system-wide  review 
are ongoing among Member States, it is not possible at 
this  stage  to  determine  the  resource  requirements  for 
paragraphs  101  and  119.  When  the  consultations  with 
Member  States  are  completed  and  the  parameters  of 
the review have been identified, the Secretary-General 
will  revert  to  the  General  Assembly  with  budgetary 
implications,  if  any,  in  accordance  with  established 
procedures.
Pursuant  to  operative  paragraph  124  (b),  DESA 
will,  first,  develop  a  road  map  for  implementation  of 
the Samoa Pathway; secondly, support and coordinate 
the  development  of  targets  and  indicators  for  the 
outcome document and, thirdly, carry out research and 
analysis of national, regional and international actions 
being undertaken by a range of stakeholders. The work 
on  targets  and  indicators  will  focus  on  the  specific 
provisions contained in the Samoa Pathway. It will also 
be closely related to the targets being identified by the 
General  Assembly  for  the  follow-up  to  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
The  work  on  developing  targets  and  indicators, 
as  well  as  further  in-depth,  analytical  and  research-
oriented  work,  will  allow  DESA  to  ground  policy 
recommendations  on  SIDS,  on  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
high-level  political  forum,  in  scientific  analysis  and 
sound data. DESA will mobilize its various divisions with 
expertise in SIDS, data and statistics, and vulnerability. 
It will work in collaboration with the Office of the High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States  and  experts  in  the  United  Nations 
system  and  beyond,  seeking  complementarity  with 
other ongoing processes.
requirements arising from the additional mandate will 
involve  developing  appropriate  targets  and  indicators 
for Samoa Pathway implementation, with emphasis on 
data  and  evidence-based  reporting,  and  ensuring  the 
science-policy interface. That will include developing 
a  number  of  targets  and  indicators  to  assess  progress 
on  the  main  provisions  of  the  Samoa  Pathway.  Those 
targets and indicators will need to be consistent with the 
targets and indicators being developed in the context of 
the post-2015 development agenda.
In  that  regard,  a  new  sustainable  development 
officer  post  at  the  P-4  level  in  the  SIDS  Unit  would 
be  required  to  undertake  substantive  analysis  and 
research  on  thematic  issues,  with  emphasis  on  data 
and  evidence-based 
the 
science-policy interface, including the development of 
targets and indicators for each relevant paragraph of the 
Samoa Pathway.
reporting  and  ensuring 
The  substantive  analytical  work,  which  will  be 
undertaken  on  a  recurrent  basis,  will  ensure  support 
to  the  effective  follow-up,  monitoring  and  reporting 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Samoa  Pathway,  filling 
a  critical  gap  in  the  support  for  SIDS  with  respect  to 
the development of quantitative targets and indicators 
for  each  thematic  chapter  of  the  Pathway,  leading  up 
to  the  mid-term  review  in  five  years.  The  cycle  will 
then  continue  until  the  convening  of  the  next  SIDS 
conference, which, based on the current cycle, will be 
in 10 years.
Should the General Assembly adopt draft resolution 
A/69/L.6,  additional  resources  in  the  total  amount  of 
$470,100  would  be  required  for  the  establishment  of 
one  temporary  post,  starting  2016,  at  the  P-4  level, 
under  section  9,  “Economic  and  Social  Affairs”,  to 
the  amount  of  $358,000;  section  29D,  “Office  of 
Central  Support  Services”,  to  the  amount  of  $73,500; 
and  section  37,  “Staff  Assessment”,  to  the  amount  of 
$38,600,  for  which  consideration  will  be  made  in  the 
context  of  the  proposed  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2016-2017.
Accordingly,  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.6  would  not  give  rise 
to  any  financial 
implications for the programme budget for the biennium 
2014-2015.
In  order  to  implement  the  requests  contained 
in  paragraph  124  (b)  of  the  outcome  document, 
DESA  will  need  to  undertake  substantial  analytical, 
quantitative  and  coordination  work.  The  additional 
The  President:  The  Assembly  shall  now  take  a 
decision on draft resolutions A/69/L.6, entitled “SIDS 
Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway”. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt it?
14-62672
7/12
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
Draft  resolution  A/69/L.6  was  adopted (resolution 
69/15).
The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolution  just 
adopted, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mrs. Robl (United States of America): The United 
States would like once again to thank the Government 
and  people  of  Samoa,  and  the  United  Nations  offices 
and agencies and the intergovernmental organizations 
that  have  worked  in  partnership  with  Samoa  to  host 
a  very  successful  conference.  We  were  very  pleased 
to  be  closely  involved  in  the  negotiations  at  United 
Nations  Headquarters,  in  New  York,  that  produced 
the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) 
Pathway (Samoa Pathway), which we have just adopted 
(resolution 69/15, annex), and we join in applauding it.
While  we  are  pleased  to  hear  that  there  are  no 
programme budget implications for the current budget 
cycle,  we  find  the  Secretariat’s  oral  statement  in  that 
regard  to  go  beyond  what  is  needed  to  support  the 
outcome document, and we question the rationale for the 
numbers, as they have not been adequately considered 
by Member States in any appropriate forum. We request 
that the Secretariat evaluate its resources and staffing 
in light of budgetary constraints among Member States, 
and the imperative to work smarter and more effectively 
as we face development and other challenges. We look 
forward to discussions in the appropriate forums, and 
thus our adoption of the resolution should not be read 
as an endorsement of the anticipated budget estimates.
Separate  from  the  budgetary  issues,  the  United 
States  has  submitted  a  written  statement,  already 
included in the formal record of the Third International 
Conference  on  Small 
Island  Developing  States, 
explaining  its  position  on  a  few  other  aspects  of  the 
outcome document.
As  we  pause  today  and  remember  fondly  the 
hospitality and leadership of Samoa and the impressive 
success of the Conference, the United States takes this 
opportunity  again  to  emphasize  that  it  deeply  values 
its  long-standing  relationship  with  the  small  island 
developing States (SIDS) and that we are committed to 
working in partnership with all stakeholders to promote 
the  sustainable  development  of  SIDS  in  all  regions 
through the implementation of the SAMOA Pathway. 
Mr. Sekiguchi (Japan): My delegation would like 
to make an explanation of position after the adoption of 
resolution 69/15. 
First,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  co-Chairs  and  co-facilitators  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee for their hard work throughout the process. 
I also extend my gratitude to the host country, Samoa, 
for its hospitality and diligent work.
Japan 
is  determined 
to  continuously  support 
the  efforts  of  the  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS)  to  implement  the  outcome  document  of  the 
SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA) 
Pathway  (Samoa  Pathway).  Japan  is  pleased  to  join 
the  consensus  on  the  Samoa  Pathway  on  achieving 
sustainable development through genuine and durable 
partnerships. This is a priority to which Japan attaches 
great importance.
It is, however, deeply regrettable that the estimates 
on  the  proposed  programme  budget  2016-2017  were 
not  issued  until  last  evening.  Japan  believes  that  cost 
information should be made available to Member States 
well  in  advance  of  the  adoption  of  a  resolution.  My 
delegation has many questions and reservations about 
the oral statement, including the basis of its estimations 
regarding paragraph 124 (b) of the outcome document. 
Let  me  clarify  that  the  costs  related  to  the  resolution 
should be considered in the process of the consideration 
of the programme budget of the next biennium, in due 
course. The oral statement is not by any means binding 
on Japan.
Ms.  Wierenga 
(Canada):  Canada  welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  important  outcome  document 
of 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Small 
Island  Developing  States  (resolution  69/15,  annex). 
However,  with  regard  to  the  oral  report  on  budgetary 
implications,  we  are  concerned  with  the  Secretariat’s 
interpretation  of  resource  requirements,  which  goes 
beyond what we understood was needed to support the 
outcome document. Furthermore, Canada is disquieted 
by the approach taken by the Secretariat in raising this 
request. We ask that the Secretariat carefully analyse its 
resource requirements on the basis of what the General 
Assembly  needs  and  introduce  them  in  the  approach 
forum at the appropriate time. We would stress that the 
adoption of today’s resolution is no way an endorsement 
or commitment to the financial requirements mentioned 
in the oral statement.
8/12 
14-62672
14/11/2014 
A/69/PV.51
Mr. Neelam (Australia): Australia was pleased and 
proud to support the Third International Conference on 
Small Island Developing States in Samoa in September 
this  year  and  to  contribute  to  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  (Samoa 
Pathway) outcome document (resolution 69/15, annex). 
At the outset, Australia would like to once again thank 
and  congratulate  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  hosting  such  a 
successful conference.
Although Australia is not a small island, most of our 
neighbours are. The interests of small island developing 
States  (SIDS)  are  vitally  important  to  my  country,  in 
particular  because  Australia  sees  the  stability  and 
prosperity  of  SIDS  in  our  region  as  integral  to  that 
of our own, but also because we want to see all small 
islands  in  the  Pacific  and  beyond  thrive  and  prosper 
and  realize  their  full  potential  for  the  benefit  of  their 
peoples.
Critical  to  that  prosperity  is  the  promotion  and 
realization  of  economic  growth  and  the  sustainable 
management  of  oceans.  One  of  the  strengths  of  the 
Samoa Pathway is the prominence it gives to those vital 
issues. We are also very pleased with the focus in the 
Samoa  Pathway  on  women’s  equality  and  economic 
empowerment and the importance of sound governance. 
Those priorities align well with those of Australia’s aid 
programme, built as it is on the experience of decades 
of work with SIDS partners.
As we move forward, we need to work together in 
partnership to implement this important document. We 
also need to forge a post-2015 development agenda that 
takes action on issues identified in the Samoa Pathway, 
including economic growth, oceans, women’s equality, 
peaceful societies and effective institutions. Australia 
is pleased to warmly welcome the formal adoption of 
the  Samoa  Pathway,  and  we  look  forward  to  working 
together in partnership with SIDS towards its effective 
implementation.
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker 
in explanation of position. I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
our  commitment  to  supporting  SIDS’  efforts  aimed 
at  achieving  their  sustainable  development,  including 
through  the  full  and  effective  implementation  of 
the  Samoa  Pathway,  in  particular  the  setting  up  of  a 
partnership framework.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
proud  of  our  long-standing  tradition  of  partnership 
with  SIDS.  We  have  long  supported  their  efforts  to 
address  their  specific  vulnerabilities.  We  have  been, 
and remain, a leading donor and key trading partner for 
SIDS. The time has come for the EU and SIDS to move 
our  traditional  donor-recipient  relationship  forward 
towards a more comprehensive relationship.
The Samoa Conference was an opportunity for us 
to  strengthen  existing  partnerships  and  help  establish 
new ones founded on SIDS ownership, mindful of the 
local context, inclusive of all relevant stakeholders, and 
based on trust, mutual respect, transparency and mutual 
accountability,  while  pursuing  measurable  objectives 
and  tangible  results.  We  also  express  our  profound 
gratitude  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa for the excellent facilities, 
staff and services provided, for the arrangements made 
in  hosting  the  Conference,  and  for  the  hospitality 
extended to the participants.
We were very surprised, however, to be presented 
with an oral statement from the Programme Planning 
and  Budget  Division  on  resolution  69/15.  We  see  no 
justification  for  generating  an  oral  statement  and 
disagree with some of the rationale given. We understand 
that  the  numbers  were  only  estimates  presented  in 
accordance with an extensive interpretation of rule 153 
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
We  stress  that  the  estimates  presented  today  do 
not prejudge the Secretary-General’s submission to the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Question and the Fifth Committee on a proposed budget 
for the 2016-2017 biennium. We also believe that some 
estimates can factually be excluded from consideration 
as requirements under the present resolution. Overall, 
these estimates should not be perceived as having been 
endorsed by Member States today.
Mr.  Devanlay  (European  Union):  The  European 
Union (EU) and its member States are pleased to join 
the  consensus  on  the  outcome  document  of  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA)  Pathway  (Samoa  Pathway).  We  reiterate 
We are particularly concerned that those estimates 
came  unexpectedly, 
long  after  negotiations  were 
over  and  on  the  eve  of  the  adoption  by  the  General 
Assembly. They do not seem to fully reflect the spirit 
of negotiations, especially as regards paragraph 124 (b). 
That paragraph was negotiated in good faith, and at the 
14-62672
9/12
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
time  of  the  informals  no  reference  was  made  to  the 
need for additional Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs resources so that it could “continue to maintain 
a partnerships platform... and to regularly convene the 
inter-agency consultative group”.
Finally,  we  strongly  believe 
increased 
transparency  regarding  estimate  budgetary  figures 
for  the  current  or  upcoming  budget  cycles  should 
be  provided  during  the  negotiation  process,  in  full 
accordance with the relevant rules of procedure.
that 
The President: I now give the floor to the Minister 
of  Communications  and  Information  Technology  of 
Samoa.
Mr. Aveau (Samoa): On behalf of the Government 
and the people of Samoa, it is my privilege and honour 
to  place  on  record  our  deepest  appreciation  to  you, 
Sir,  for  your  sterling  and  considerate  leadership  in 
providing  an  avenue,  in  our  Assembly’s  busy  agenda, 
for  facilitating  the  adoption  of  the  Small  Island 
Developing  States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA) Pathway (Samoa Pathway). On behalf of all 
small island developing States (SIDS), our partners and 
the  whole  membership  of  the  Organization,  we  thank 
you for your support and understanding, as evidenced 
in today’s adoption by consensus of the Samoa Pathway 
(resolution  69/15,  annex).  Further,  the  bureaux  of  the 
preparatory  meetings  and  of  the  Third  International 
Conference  on  Small 
Island  Developing  States 
deserve special mention for steadying and guiding our 
deliberations efficiently and with professionalism.
But  our  thanks  would  not  be  complete  without 
mentioning  the  unwavering  support  of  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who is always advocating 
for SIDS issues and leading by example. The Conference 
would  not  have  achieved  the  success  it  enjoyed,  were 
it  not  for  the  steadfast  leadership  of  the  Conference 
Secretary-General, Mr. Wu Hongbo, and the supportive 
secretariat he ably led. And to all who contributed to 
turning the Samoa Pathway into to what it is today, we 
offer our deepest admiration.
The  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Samoa  Pathway  is  a  momentous  occasion  and  a  high 
point in the enduring efforts of small island developing 
States  to  focus  world  attention  on  their  sustainable 
development  needs  as  a  United  Nations-recognized 
group 
facing  special  circumstances  and  having 
inherent vulnerabilities, not of their choice but due to 
factors  completely  outside  of  their  control.  But  every 
journey in life has a point of reference. Today, we are 
celebrating another chapter in SIDS’ evolving existence 
that began 29 months ago, when the outcome document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, 
annex),  called  for  the  convening  in  2014  of  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States.
That call was not lost on Samoa’s Prime Minister, 
who, in his statement to the Rio Conference on 22 June 
2012,  offered  Samoa  to  host  the  SIDS  conference. 
According  to  his  vision,  hosting  a  global  conference 
is  a  rare  privilege  that  comes  once  a  decade,  but  the 
real  honour  and  motivation  lies  in  the  opportunity  to 
have  the  spotlight  of  international  attention  fall  on 
SIDS’  challenges  and  realities  and  to  share  with  the 
international  community  Samoa’s  story  about  the 
primacy  and  importance  of  successful  partnerships 
firmly  rooted  in  mutual  trust  and  respect,  which,  for 
over  five  decades,  have  been  the  foundational  pillars 
of  Samoa’s  journey  as  an  island  nation.  It  was  also 
important  to  demonstrate  that  being  SIDS  or  least 
developed  countries  should  not  discourage  poor  and 
vulnerable  nations  from  stepping  forward  to  achieve 
economic, social and political progress.
When we started the process, it was a leap of faith 
into  uncharted  waters.  Useful  signposts  along  the 
way  included  General  Assembly  resolution  67/207  of 
December  2012,  welcoming  Samoa’s  offer  to  host  the 
Conference;  the  Assembly’s  decision  67/558  of  May 
2013, on the dates for the Conference; the Assembly’s 
subsequent endorsement of the modalities, in December 
2013,  in  resolution  68/238;  and  the  approval  of  the 
outcome  document  by  the  Preparatory  Committee  in 
July 2014, seven weeks before the Conference. To cap 
it  all,  the  Conference  adopted  the  SAMOA  Pathway 
outcome document on 4 September.
At times, those milestones appeared untenable, far-
fetched  and  unachievable.  Some  of  us  at  home  began 
to question whether we had made the right decision to 
host  the  Conference  in  the  first  place,  and  there  was 
always  a  lingering  doubt  about  whether  we  had  the 
perseverance and determination to pull off that national 
undertaking.  But  persevere  we  did,  determined  we 
were, and compromise we practiced. Flexibility became 
the norm, but being resolute and principled became our 
moral compass.
True to our collective sense of obligation to Pacific 
countries for their trust in us as the host for our region, 
10/12 
14-62672
14/11/2014 
A/69/PV.51
to  our  SIDS  constituency  for  its  continuous  support, 
and to our partners for their confidence by rallying and 
rendering every assistance imaginable to ensure that no 
one  felt  let  down,  we  continued  to  navigate  our  way 
through and to tell our story as truthfully as we saw it, 
untroubled  by  whether  people  thought  foul  of  us  and 
our motives. But there was no ulterior goal at all other 
than to share the truth with the rest of the world about 
our special case, our challenges and realities, and the 
imperative to build and enhance our overall resilience. 
After  all,  some  of  our  islands  have  the  high  moral 
ground  to  insist  on  having  their  stories  told  from  the 
lens of their experiences, untainted by power politics, 
world agendas, misplaced assumptions and unfounded 
concerns.
Looking back now, any doubts we might have had 
about  a  successful  outcome  are  truly  water  under  the 
bridge.  We  have  the  benefit  of  hindsight  and  actions 
about  which  we  can  speak.  Through  the  unanimous 
adoption  of  resolution  69/15 
the  General 
Assembly has rewarded the SIDS’ resolve with its trust 
and repaid our fortitude with its confidence and faith. 
For those partners who believed and stood by us from 
day one through the thick and thin of the negotiations 
and  the  almost  endless  logistical  preparations,  no 
reward  suffices,  because  none  is  expected.  In  the 
Assembly,  Samoa  and  SIDS  have  found  genuine  and 
durable friends.
today, 
Resolution  69/15  is  brief,  but  it  belies  the  level 
of  detailed  discussions  necessary  to  arrive  at  such  an 
outcome.  The  Samoa  Pathway  is  a  finely  balanced 
intergovernmental  agreement  that  has  the  zeal  and 
stamp of approval of the United Nations membership. 
It  is  the  blueprint  for  SIDS  sustainable  development 
for  now  and  in  the  immediate  future.  We  hope  that 
the increased understanding and appreciation of SIDS 
issues  and  challenges  gained  at  the  Conference  will 
not  be  forgotten  or  relegated  in  priority  due  to  the 
competing agendas of more influential Member States.
The  international  community  has  a  very  full 
agenda.  The  follow-up  to  the  SIDS  Conference  will 
be  part  of  that  agenda  and  we  hope  that,  amid  all 
the  demands  —  political,  economic  and  other  —  the 
realities  of  SIDS  so  clearly  spelled  out  in  the  Samoa 
Pathway  will  be  able  to  retain  the  attention  of  the 
wider international community. We took seriously the 
commitments given for SIDS at the Conference, and we 
will remain deeply mindful of how those commitments 
are turned into actions.
So as we approach the new post-2015 development 
agenda, we must ensure that, while a single-framework 
approach is important, it does not equate to one-size-fits-
all  for  purposes  of  implementation,  monitoring  and 
evaluation. It is important that the agreed sustainable 
development goals and post-2015 development agenda 
take into account groups like SIDS so as to ensure that 
the  indicators  developed  are  also  applicable  to  their 
situations.  Similarly,  we  want  the  upcoming  United 
Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, 
to  be  held  next  year  in  Japan;  the  third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development, to be held 
in  Lima;  and  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference,  to  be  held  in  Paris,  to  use  our  Samoa 
Pathway as an authoritative source from which to draw 
inspiration for their respective outcomes.
I  cannot  resist  restating  what  my  Prime  Minister 
said in his closing remarks at the SIDS Conference in 
Apia:
“I hope the Samoa Pathway will not be viewed 
as an end in itself to be used only as a reference point 
until  the  next  SIDS  conference.  Much  investment 
in  genuine  goodwill  by  SIDS  and  their  partners 
went into agreeing to the SAMOA Pathway as the 
blueprint  for  SIDS  sustainable  development  for 
now and the immediate future.”
We  need  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  SIDS-
specific  United  Nations  institutions  responsive  and 
supportive to SIDS in our collective efforts to address 
their  sustainable  development  aspirations  in  the  post-
2015 development agenda and beyond. We also call for 
the establishment of a robust global monitoring system 
that  will  strengthen  accountability  at  all  levels  and 
ensure an adequate and timely analysis and update of 
the implementation of the Samoa Pathway.
As composer of the Conference theme song “There 
Is Hope”, I appeal to all Member States to help us turn 
SIDS island voices into global choices so that there will 
indeed  be  hope  for  SIDS  today,  tomorrow  and  in  the 
future.  Let  me  reminisce  and  admit  that  Samoa  will 
never  be  the  same  again,  because  we  invited  close  to 
4,000 representatives to our shores, and at the end we 
had to say good-bye to 4,000 genuine friends of Samoa. 
An  enduring  momento  that  will  live  on  forever  with 
our people is the fact that when the Secretary-General 
arrived,  he  was  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  yet  when  he  left 
he  was  bestowed  the  Samoan  princely  title  of  Afioga 
Tupua Ban Ki-moon.
14-62672
11/12
A/69/PV.51 
14/11/2014
To  conclude,  I  say  to  all  those  who  made  it  to 
Samoa,  our  people  were  privileged  to  be  the  host  for 
the  SIDS  Conference.  We  continue  to  treasure  the 
memories of their presence in our small paradise, and 
it is my sincerest wish that their memories of their brief 
sojourn in my country be as pleasant as ours.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 13 and its 
sub-item (a) and of agenda item 115.
The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.
12/12 
14-62672
