United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
52nd plenary meeting
Monday, 17 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 63
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/69/53 
and A/69/53/Add.1)
The  President:  In  connection  with  this  item,  I 
would  like  to  recall  that  the  General  Assembly,  at  its 
2nd plenary meeting, on 19 September 2014, decided to 
consider agenda item 63 in the plenary meeting and in 
the Third Committee, pursuant to resolution 65/281, of 
17 June 2011.
I  welcome  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baudelaire  Ndong 
Ella,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and 
commend him for his leadership of the Human Rights 
Council.
Since  its  establishment  in  2006,  the  Council  has 
continued  to  gain  prominence  as  the  main  United 
Nations organ dedicated to the promotion and protection 
of human rights, one of the three pillars of the United 
Nations.  By  responding  to  human  rights  violations, 
the Council is instrumental in encouraging respect for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms for everybody, 
everywhere.  In  this  regard,  the  Council’s  active  and 
sustained  response  to  human  rights  situations  around 
the  globe  is  commendable.  With  creative  working 
methods  and  a  variety  of  tools,  such  as  commissions 
of  inquiry,  special  procedures  and  panel  discussions, 
the  Council  has  assisted  Member  States  in  fulfilling 
their  human  rights  obligations.  The  Council  has  also 
put  the  spotlight  on  widespread  and  systemic  human 
rights violations, ensuring that complex human rights 
situations remain high on the United Nations agenda.
I  would  like  to  underscore  the  importance  of  the 
universal  periodic  review  (UPR),  which  is  now  well 
into its second cycle. By providing universal coverage 
and  guaranteeing  the  equal  treatment  of  States,  that 
mechanism  has  become  a  cornerstone  of  the  United 
Nations human rights system. It is essential to preserve 
the  UPR’s  founding  principles,  and  I  encourage 
Member  States  to  continue  cooperating  with  that 
important  mechanism  and  ensuring  follow-up  of  the 
recommendations accepted during their review.
The  Council  has  not  only  been  prompt 
in 
addressing  country-specific  issues,  it  has  also  been 
active  in  promoting  the  entire  spectrum  of  human 
rights,  including  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural rights and the right to development. Through 
its various mandates and mechanisms, the Council has 
given  a  voice  to  the  most  vulnerable  and  those  most 
likely to suffer discrimination and denial of their basic 
rights. From the rights of women and children to those 
of persons with disabilities, from internally displaced 
persons to victims of sexual violence, the Council has 
worked  to  strengthen  the  fundamental  rights  of  all 
people.
The work of the Human Rights Council reaffirms 
the  fundamental  principle  that  every  human  being  is 
entitled  to  a  life  of  dignity  and  the  full  enjoyment  of 
human rights. The support of the Assembly is therefore 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-63039 (E)
*1463039*
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
essential to ensure that the Council fulfils its important 
mandate.
El  Salvador,  Ghana,  India,  Indonesia,  Latvia,  the 
Netherlands, Nigeria, Paraguay, Portugal and Qatar.
In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281,  of  17  June 
2011, I now give the floor to Mr. Ndong Ella, President 
of the Human Rights Council.
Mr. Ndong Ella (Gabon), President of the Human 
Rights Council (spoke in French): It is truly a privilege 
and  an  honour  to  present  the  report  of  the  Human 
Rights Council (A/69/53) to the Assembly. The Council 
was established eight years ago — some of those here 
were present in this Hall at that time — to replace the 
Commission on Human Rights, following the adoption, 
on 15 March 2006, of resolution 60/251. The Assembly 
thereby entrusted the Human Rights Council with the 
mandate of
“promoting universal respect for the protection of 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, 
without  distinction  of  any  kind  and  in  a  fair  and 
equal manner” (resolution 60/251, para. 2).
Over the years, the Council has acquired importance, 
renown  and  credibility,  particularly 
its 
special  procedures  and  universal  periodic  reviews. 
The  Council,  unlike  the  now-defunct  Commission  on 
Human Rights, guarantees fair and equal treatment and 
the non-politicization of its discussions.
through 
On  behalf  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  it  is 
my  honour  to  submit  the  report  on  its  activities  to 
the  Assembly  this  morning.  Before  continuing,  I 
wish  to  express  my  sincere  congratulations  to  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  splendid  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session. 
I  welcome  the  coincidence,  by  which  I  mean  this 
extraordinary  meeting  seemingly  orchestrated  by 
the god of the universe to enable the President of the 
Human  Rights  Council,  who  hails  from  an  African 
country, to present the Human Rights Council’s report 
to the President of the General Assembly, who also hails 
from  an  African  country.  It  is  a  precedent  that  some 
may consider a sign of the times. For my part, I wish 
you, Mr. President, every success during your mandate. 
I am convinced that your character and rich experience 
are undeniable assets for the success of your tenure. I 
am certain that the adoption of this report will also be a 
step towards that success.
Allow me also to congratulate the 15 States elected 
by  the  Assembly  to  join  the  47-member  Council: 
Albania,  Bangladesh,  Bolivia,  Botswana,  the  Congo, 
The  eighth  cycle  of  the  presidency  of  the  Human 
Rights Council is taking place in a difficult human rights 
context  characterized  by  many  crises  and  conflicts, 
often involving non-State actors. The Council held three 
regular sessions, as stipulated in the Council’s rules of 
procedure, contained in the annex to Council resolution 
5/1. In that period, over 138 meetings were organized, 
averaging about 46 meetings per session, exceeding the 
normal  threshold  of  32  meetings.  Each  session  had  a 
particularly heavy programme of work, with meetings 
running all day, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., without a lunch 
break.  More  than  252  reports  were  examined  under 
various agenda items. Fifty-seven interactive dialogues 
were  organized  with  the  special  procedures  mandate 
holders on thematic issues and on country issues.
The  Human  Rights  Council  organized  22  high-
level  panels  on  current  topics  and  various  crisis 
situations.  Among  them  I  note  the  discussions  on  the 
promotion of preventive approaches within the United 
Nations  system,  the  protection  of  the  family,  good 
practices  in  combating  female  genital  mutilation, 
the  safety  of  journalists,  the  rights  of  persons  with 
disabilities,  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples,  access 
to justice for children, the rights of women, the use of 
drones in military antiterrorist operations, the right to 
privacy  in  the  digital  age,  the  human  rights  situation 
in eastern Ukraine, the fight against sexual violence in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the human 
rights situation in South Sudan.
Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  16/21, 
the  General  Assembly 
requested,  in  its  resolution  65/281,  that  the  Council 
hold a half-day high-level panel discussion once a year 
on mainstreaming human rights in all United Nations 
agencies  and  funds.  During  its  twenty-fifth  regular 
session, in March, the Council organized a high-level 
panel  entitled  “The  protection  and  promotion  of  the 
human rights of migrants”. Among other issues, it dealt 
with the loss of lives of numerous African migrants in 
the area around the Italian island of Lampedusa. More 
than  8,000  representatives  participated  in  the  three 
regular  sessions,  with  around  130  dignitaries  coming 
from various parts of the world. More than 500 parallel 
events were organized on the sidelines of our work.
During  its  twenty-fifth  session,  the  Council  was 
particularly honoured to welcome a Head of State, His 
2/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
Excellency  Mr.  Moncel  Marzouki,  President  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia. We also hosted Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon; the President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  His  Excellency  Mr.  John 
Ashe; the Vice-President of the Republic of Colombia, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Angelino  Garzón;  and  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Vanuatu,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Moana 
Carcasses Kalosil. And those are just some examples.
to 
I would like to emphasize the effective participation 
of  the  least  developed  countries  and  small  island 
developing  States  in  the  work  of  the  Council,  which 
contributes 
the  principle  of  universality.  The 
trust  fund  established  by  the  Council  to  support  the 
participation  of  least  developed  countries  and  small 
island  developing  States  allowed  a  dozen  delegations 
from  those  countries  to  attend.  Indeed,  I  encourage 
more States to contribute to that trust fund so that in 
future  the  Council  can  continue  to  facilitate  greater 
participation.
The  Human  Rights  Council  held  three  special 
sessions to respond urgently to certain situations where 
human rights and international humanitarian law were 
being  seriously  violated.  At  the  request  of  Ethiopia, 
on behalf of the Group of African States, the Council 
met on 20 January to consider the serious human rights 
violations in the Central African Republic linked to the 
civil war and intercommunal violence in that country. 
Following  that  special  session,  the  Council  appointed 
an  independent  expert,  Mrs.  Marie-Thérèse  Keita 
Bocoum, to follow up on the situation of human rights 
and to support the stabilization and pacification efforts 
of  the  transition  authorities  in  the  Central  African 
Republic.
On  23  July,  the  Council  met  at  the  request  of 
Pakistan,  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation  and  the  Group  of  Arab  States,  on  the 
situation of human rights violations and violence in the 
Palestinian  territories  occupied  since  1967,  including 
East Jerusalem and Gaza. The Council decided to appoint 
a  commission  of  inquiry  tasked  with  investigating 
allegations  of  serious  human  rights  violations  and 
international  humanitarian  law  perpetrated  by  all 
parties in the occupied Palestinian territories, including 
East Jerusalem and Gaza. In spite of certain difficulties, 
I was able to appoint the members of the commission 
of inquiry, which began its preliminary investigations 
under the chairmanship of Professor Schabas. The three 
members of the commission — Mr. Schabas of Canada, 
Mr. Diène of Senegal and former judge Ms. Mary Davis 
of  the  United  States  of  America  —  visited  me  some 
days ago and provided a first update of their mission.
On 1 September, the Council held a special session 
on the situation of human rights in Iraq linked to the 
violations and abuses perpetrated by the terrorist group 
known as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. The 
Council faced a problem that is both special and new 
concerning  violence,  crimes  and  serious  violations  of 
human rights perpetrated by a non-State actor. It decided 
to send, on an urgent basis, a mission of inquiry from 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights to shed light on the situation in the 
north of Iraq.
Regarding the universal periodic review, the Council 
adopted the reports of the 57 countries considered this 
year  at  the  beginning  of  the  second  cycle.  Indeed,  at 
its  eighteenth,  nineteenth  and  twentieth  sessions,  the 
Working  Group  on  on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
reviewed  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  15  African 
countries,  15  Asian  countries,  10  Latin  American 
countries, five Western European countries, six Eastern 
European countries and three Pacific countries. There 
were 5,040 recommendations made, of which 3,931 were 
accepted  and  831  simply  noted.  Since  the  beginning 
of  the  second  cycle  of  the  universal  periodic  review, 
more than 20,000 recommendations have been made, of 
which more than 16,000 were accepted and under 4,000 
simply noted. I wish to reassure the Assembly that my 
presentation is not intended to be a mathematics course. 
I  am  just  trying  to  demonstrate  the  workload  of  the 
Council in the framework of that important mechanism.
The  participation  of  reviewed  countries  was 
100  per  cent,  and  delegations  were  represented  at 
least at the ministerial level. As you have emphasized, 
Mr.  President,  that  mechanism  is  gaining  importance 
and  credibility  and  henceforth  will  constitute  an 
essential  pillar  of  the  system  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights.
Regarding  the  decisions  and  resolutions  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  the  cycle  just  finished  was 
once again productive. The Council adopted 114 texts, 
including  106  resolutions,  six  presidential  statements 
and two decisions. Sixty-five per cent of those decisions 
and resolutions were adopted by consensus and 35 by 
vote.  The  current  thematic  subjects  linked  to  human 
rights  were  dealt  with  in  resolutions  concerning  the 
use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in the 
framework of counter-terrorism operations, protection 
of human rights defenders in the framework of peaceful 
14-63039
3/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
protests,  the  promotion  of  the  right  to  a  private  life 
in  the  digital  age,  the  protection  of  the  family,  the 
establishment  of  an 
intergovernmental  working 
group  with  a  mandate  to  elaborate  a  legally  binding 
international instrument for multinational corporations, 
violence  and  discrimination  against  persons  based  on 
their sexual and gender orientation, and abolition of the 
death penalty.
The Council renewed the appointments of special 
procedures  mandate-holders.  The  decisions  on 
appointments had to do with several special rapporteurs, 
including  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
human rights defenders, the Special Rapporteur on the 
situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories 
occupied  since  1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  promotion  and  protection 
of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, and 
the Special Rapporteur on the right to health. The large 
number of mandate-holders appointed — 31 out of the 
53  existing  ones  —  made  the  task  quite  difficult.  In 
order for the advisory group and I to be able to submit 
draft  decisions  that  are  sufficiently  acceptable  to  the 
Council, it would be desirable to consider the possibility 
of  having  a  more  appropriate  periodic  appointment 
process.  Moreover,  new 
thematic  mandates  were 
established,  including  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
rights  of  persons  with  disabilities  and  the  Special 
Rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral coercive 
measures on the enjoyment of human rights.
As  I  stated  at  the  beginning  of  my  presentation, 
the  Council  had  recourse  to  the  establishment  of 
complementary  mechanisms  to  provide  emergency 
responses to situations of serious violations of human 
rights.  That  was  the  case  regarding  the  decision  to 
establish a commission of inquiry on serious violations 
of  human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  following  the 
military operations in the Gaza Strip, and a commission 
of  inquiry  to  investigate  human  rights  violations  in 
Eritrea.  That  also  pertained  to  the  decision  to  deploy 
a  team  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
to investigate the situation of human rights violations 
in  Iraq  linked  to  abuses  and  violence  of  the  so-
called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant and to the 
establishment of a structure of the Office of the High 
Commissioner to follow the human rights situation in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and in Sri 
Lanka.
Regarding the country situations, during its three 
regular  sessions  the  Council  carefully  followed  the 
situation of human rights in Eritrea, in the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Belarus,  Myanmar,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and the Syrian Arab Republic 
under  item  4  of  its  agenda.  Other  country  situations 
were  also  taken  up  under  agenda  item  2,  mainly  the 
situations  in  Iraq  and  in  Sri  Lanka.  Along  the  same 
lines,  the  Council  renewed  the  mandate  of  a  certain 
number  of  independent  experts  on  the  human  rights 
situation 
technical 
cooperation  and  technical  assistance  programmes  to 
strengthen  capacities  in  human  rights  under  item  10. 
That  concerns  Mali,  the  Sudan,  the  Central  African 
Republic,  Somalia,  Yemen  and  Côte  d’Ivoire.  The 
Council  supported  the  decision  to  renew  the  mandate 
of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights  in  Cambodia  and  to  provide  follow-up  on  the 
human rights situations in Libya, Guinea, South Sudan, 
Ukraine and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
in  countries  benefiting 
from 
Some  months  ago,  we  were  pleased  to  witness 
an  unprecedented  international  mobilization  against 
the  terrorist  Islamist  group  Boko  Haram,  following 
the kidnapping of 200 schoolgirls in the north-east of 
Nigeria, under the slogan Bring Back Our Girls.
Another  even  more  devastating  and  very  deadly 
threat, the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, is of concern 
to  all  of  us  today.  The  loss  of  human  life  since  the 
beginning  of  the  epidemic  demonstrates  that  it  is  a 
threat to both human life and the human condition. At 
its twenty-seventh session, the Human Rights Council 
adopted  a  presidential  statement  on  the  Ebola  virus 
epidemic, thereby demonstrating its ability to respond 
on  an  emergency  basis  to  the  seriousness  of  that 
situation.  The  Council  sought  to  encourage  workers, 
agencies and non-governmental organizations working 
in  the  humanitarian  sphere  in  the  fight  against  the 
epidemic.
The Council has also been worried for some time 
now about accessibility to its work and documents by 
persons with disabilities. It therefore created a special 
task force that is making several specific improvements, 
in  particular  by  providing  a  guide  on  accessibility  to 
the Council for persons with disabilities and reserving 
seats for individuals with disabilities in the Council’s 
meeting  room.  Each  Council  meeting,  aside  from  the 
annual  debate  on  persons  with  disabilities,  has  also 
been made accessible to persons with disabilities, with 
4/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
international sign language, subtitling and the option of 
printing statements in Braille upon request.
On  the  agenda  item  concerning  financial  and 
budgetary issues, allow me to highlight the fact that the 
114 documents adopted by the Human Rights Council 
during  its  regular  and  special  sessions  account  for 
about $30 million. That is about 60 to 75 per cent more 
than the budget for 2013. As the Assembly knows, the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights devotes more than half of its resources 
to mandates from the Council and has not had enough 
resources for several years now.
thematic 
items,  combined  with 
However, the number of new mandates on country-
specific  and 
the 
activities requested by Member States, has tripled over 
the past three years. This is demonstrated by the number 
of  decisions  and  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Council, 
which went from 60 in 2006 to 114 today, the number 
of reports considered and round tables and interactive 
debates  held,  and  the  record  number  of  participants 
and dignitaries. I would like to call the attention of the 
Assembly to the need to provide additional resources to 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights so as to allow the Council to carry 
out its mandate effectively and respond to emergency 
situations in every region of the world.
The Human Rights Council is now a victim of its 
own success. The number of resolutions and decisions, 
high-level panels and interactive dialogues is constantly 
increasing.  The  workload  has  increased  and  has 
become a matter of concern for the Council’s various 
stakeholders.  During  the  twenty-seventh  session,  the 
Bureau of the Council, with the help of the secretariat, 
was  forced  to  make  certain  adjustments  so  as  to 
accommodate  the  large  workload.  Therefore  the  time 
allotted to statements was reduced for Member States 
and observers speaking during round-table discussions 
and interactive debates, as well as for special procedures 
mandate-holders presenting reports.
Other solutions to improve the working methods of 
the Council could be considered without undermining 
the  current  balance  and  mass  participation  of  civil 
society  representatives.  The  participation  of  civil 
society  in  the  activities  of  the  Council  should  be 
facilitated  and  strengthened,  as  it  helps  preserve  the 
credibility and neutrality of the Human Rights Council 
within the United Nations system. Resolution 24/24, on 
cooperation with the United Nations, its representatives 
and  mechanisms  in  the  area  of  human  rights  —  the 
adoption of which had been deferred by my predecessor 
at  the  time  of  the  presentation  of  the  report  last 
year — from this point of view merits the support of 
this  Assembly.  It  would  be  desirable  if  the  elements 
that had blocked the adoption of that resolution could 
be resolved in a definitive manner at the current session 
of the General Assembly.
We should consider updating the working methods 
of the Council so as to take on board the contingencies 
and new situations. Some delegations would indeed like 
to encourage such an initiative in Geneva so as to ensure 
that  it  is  resolved  in  2016,  as  the  most  recent  update 
took place in 2011. Several aspects could be considered, 
in  particular  the  Council’s  agenda,  the  number  of 
resolutions,  the  number  of  panels,  the  functioning  of 
some  groups  linked  to  the  activities  of  the  Council, 
the  role  of  special  procedures,  and  the  participation 
of non-governmental organizations in the work of the 
Council and treaty bodies.
On the other hand, there is a need to continue the 
trend of integrating the issue of human rights into the 
agencies and programmes of the United Nations system. 
Human  rights  should  in  that  respect  be  given  proper 
priority in the discussions under way on the post-2015 
development  agenda.  Economic,  cultural  and  social 
rights,  including  the  right  to  development,  should  be 
considered on equal footing with cultural and political 
rights.
During  my  presidency,  I  have  participated  in 
over 1,000 activities, which have been divided among 
meetings  and  hearings  with  high-level  officials 
and  bilateral  consultations  with  Member  States, 
representatives  of  international  and  domestic  human 
rights institutions, special procedures mandate holders 
and  human  rights  advocates.  I  took  the  initiative  to 
visit  New  York  after  every  session  of  the  Council  so 
as to exchange views with all stakeholders and update 
them  on  the  Council’s  work.  Given  the  international 
situation  and  the  Council’s  composition,  I  understand 
that  this  tenure  has  been  the  most  difficult  since  the 
establishment  of  the  Council  in  2006.  I  would  also 
like  to  emphasize  that  every  day  the  Council  seems 
threatened by a risk of politicization and polarization in 
its debates, and I have very often encouraged dialogue 
and cooperation.
I  would  like  to  thank  all  delegations  for  their 
support and the confidence they have placed in Gabon. 
Under the leadership of His Excellency Mr. Ali Bongo 
Ondimba, President of the Republic and Head of State, 
14-63039
5/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
the  country  has  placed  peace,  human  rights  and  the 
people’s  well-being  at  the  heart  of  its  development 
strategy,  which  is  aimed  at  lifting  the  country  to  the 
status of an emerging country by 2025.
We  must  consolidate  the  current  credibility  and 
authority of the Council, always being mindful of the 
reasons that the Commission on Human Rights ceased 
to  exist.  For  my  part,  this  mandate  has  reinforced 
my  belief  that  now  more  than  ever  we  need  strong 
institutions such as the Council to promote and protect 
human rights across the globe.
The President: I thank the President of the Human 
Rights Council.
I now give the floor to the observer of the European 
Union.
Mr. Mayr-Harting (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The candidate countries the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and  potential  candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as 
well  as  Ukraine  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with 
this statement.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  for  presenting  the  Council’s 
ninth annual report to the General Assembly (A/69/53). 
We also appreciate the opportunity to hold an interactive 
dialogue  with  the  Human  Rights  Council  President 
at  the  Third  Committee,  and  I  would  add  that  we  are 
particularly  grateful  for  the  dialogue,  here  during 
his  mandate,  with  major  groups  in  the  Organization, 
including ours. In the interests of time, I will abridge 
my statement a little bit and ask delegations to look at 
the written version for the full text.
The  European  Union  remains  a  strong  supporter 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  a  position  held  since 
its  establishment.  The  Council,  as  the  main  United 
Nations  body  devoted  purely  to  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  all  human  rights,  has  strengthened  the 
ability of the United Nations to ensure that all persons 
enjoy their human rights. We attach great importance to 
both the credibility and the effectiveness of the Council 
and  will  continue  to  make  every  effort  to  ensure  that 
it  is  able  to  address  situations  of  violations  of  human 
rights,  including  gross  and  systematic  violations,  to 
respond  promptly  to  human  rights  emergencies,  and 
also  to  improve  human  rights  standards  and  their 
implementation  worldwide  through  systematic  work 
on various thematic issues. In that context, we strongly 
oppose  any  attempts  to  undermine  the  institutional 
position of the Council within the system of the United 
Nations.
In that connection, the European Union is pleased to 
note that the Human Rights Council has maintained its 
leadership in addressing human rights situations. The 
Council’s ongoing response to the crisis in the Syrian 
Arab  Republic  remains  highly  important,  including 
by  extending  through  to  its  twenty-eighth  session 
the  mandate  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry,  currently 
the  only  international  investigative  mechanism  on 
human  rights  violations  and  abuses  in  the  country. 
The  Council  has  also  demonstrated  its  commitment 
to  provide  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building 
to  the  Governments  of  Afghanistan,  Cambodia,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  Haiti,  Mali,  Somalia, 
the Sudan and Yemen with a view to promoting human 
rights, and we welcome the continued support that has 
been  rendered  to  the  Central  African  Republic,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Libya,  the  Republic  of  Guinea  and  South 
Sudan. The European Union hopes that the Council will 
continue to closely monitor situations where technical 
assistance and capacity-building can make a difference 
and that it will take action where necessary.
On  21  October,  the  General  Assembly  elected 
15 new members to the Human Rights Council. Serving 
as a Council member entails important responsibilities; 
resolution 60/251 provides in paragraph 9 that “members 
elected to the Council shall uphold the highest standards 
in the promotion and protection of human rights”. We 
encourage all to pay full attention to the human rights 
records  and  human  rights  commitments  of  States 
throughout their membership.
We highly value the work of the special procedures 
and are firmly convinced that they play a crucial role in 
advancing the human rights agenda. All States members 
of  the  European  Union  have  extended  a  standing 
invitation  to  the  special  procedures,  and  the  EU  calls 
upon  all  United  Nations  Members  to  do  likewise  and 
to  actively  cooperate  with  those  procedures.  In  order 
to  allow  special  procedures  to  fully  carry  out  their 
mandates, it is crucial that they be able to independently 
assess and draw the Council’s attention to human rights 
situations  and  issues.  The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  growing  participation  of  mandate-holders  in  the 
Council.
6/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
Given the situation in the countries concerned, the 
European Union welcomes the extension of the country-
specific  mandates  of  the  Special  Rapporteurs  on  the 
situation of human rights in Belarus, Eritrea, Myanmar, 
the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, as well as the appointment of the Independent 
Expert on the situation of human rights in Somalia. We 
also welcome the establishment of the new mandate of the 
Independent Expert on capacity-building and technical 
cooperation with Côte d’Ivoire and the extension of the 
mandates of the Independent Experts on the situation 
of human rights in the Central African Republic, Haiti, 
Mali and the Sudan. We also support the establishment 
of a commission of inquiry on the situation of human 
rights in Eritrea and stand fully behind the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR) investigation in Sri Lanka, which is currently 
under  way.  Finally,  we  also  encourage  cooperation 
with  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  set  to  investigate  all 
violations  and  abuses  of  international  humanitarian 
law and human rights law in the occupied Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem.
through 
Thematic  special  procedures  play  an  equally 
important  role, 
their  research,  country-
specific  visits  and  valuable  contribution  to  the  better 
understanding  of 
the  content  of  specific  human 
rights  and  their  contribution  to  the  enhancement  and 
realization of human rights standards. Among the many 
thematic special procedures, the European Union would 
like to highlight the mandate of the Special Rapporteur 
on  freedom  of  religion  or  belief,  who  plays  an  active 
role in identifying existing and emerging obstacles to 
the  enjoyment  of  the  right  to  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief and in presenting recommendations to overcome 
such obstacles.
The European Union remains strongly committed 
to  the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR),  a  truly 
universal  and  unique  mechanism  within  the  United 
Nations, which seeks to address all human rights and is 
applicable to all States Members of the United Nations 
without distinction or discrimination and continues to 
contribute  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  on  the  ground. 
Preserving  the  universality  of  the  UPR  process  is  of 
paramount importance, and in that regard the Council 
has been successful. Ultimately, the quality of the review 
recommendations  and  the  commitment  to  implement 
them are key to the outcome of the process. Therefore, 
we would like to refer to the Council President’s letter 
of 18 September 2013 and stress that the equal treatment 
of  all  countries  is  an  underlying  element  of  the  UPR 
mechanism  and  needs  to  be  maintained  throughout 
each cycle.
The  European  Union  wishes  in  particular  to 
important 
highlight  and  welcome 
following 
developments during the reporting period.
the 
First, the Council rendered necessary attention to 
the safety of journalists, holding a panel discussion on 
the subject.
Secondly, the enjoyment of human rights by women 
and  girls  has  continued  to  figure  as  a  major  theme 
on  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  agenda  during  the 
period  under  review.  The  Council  held  another  panel 
discussion  on  preventing  and  eliminating  child,  early 
and forced marriage, as well as on the identification of 
good practices in combating female genital mutilation.
Thirdly,  the  Council  addressed  the  issue  of  the 
death penalty through a high-level panel discussion as 
well as initiatives.
Fourthly,  the  Council  continued  its  crucial  work 
on the rights of the child, with a full-day annual panel 
discussion,  presented  jointly  by  the  European  Union 
and the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States 
and  dedicated  to  access  to  justice  for  children.  The 
Council also adopted a resolution on the topic.
Fifthly,  the  Council  also  held  a  panel  discussion 
on  the  importance  of  the  promotion  and  protection 
of civil society space, focusing on the promotion of a 
constructive,  interactive  partnership  between  States 
and civil society and underlining the important role of 
civil society, including human rights defenders, in the 
promotion and protection of human rights.
The  European  Union  reiterates 
its  strongest 
involving  reprisals  against 
condemnation  of  acts 
and 
intimidation  of  civil  society  representatives 
who  attend  Human  Rights  Council  meetings  and 
cooperate  with  human  rights  mechanisms  and  the 
OHCHR.  Contributions  by  civil  society  organizations 
and  national  human  rights  institutions  are  extremely 
valuable  to  the  work  of  the  Council.  Their  ability  to 
interact with the Council must be preserved.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  reiterate  our  ongoing 
commitment to contributing to the work of the Human 
Rights Council and to further strengthening its role in 
the development of international human rights law. We 
will continue to systematically uphold and ensure the 
14-63039
7/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
implementation  of  existing  international  norms  and 
standards,  to  strongly  advocate  for  the  universality 
of human rights and to promote the observance by all 
States of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr. Alibrahim (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): Today 
the  General  Assembly  is  considering  one  of  the  most 
important items on its agenda. In that regard, I would 
like to thank the Human Rights Council for its annual 
report,  contained  in  documents  A/69/53  and  A/69/53/
Add.1,  which  summarizes  the  work  of  the  Council 
in  promoting  human  rights  internationally  and  its 
continuing endeavour to uphold and defend them.
The report discusses many issues relating to human 
rights and their promotion, focusing on the role of the 
relevant  international  human  rights  institutions  and 
their efforts to enhance cooperation of every kind with 
various countries around the world. It also touches on 
many  important  issues,  including  human  trafficking, 
the rights of persons with disabilities and the need to 
strengthen  efforts  aimed  at  eliminating  intolerance, 
extremism, discrimination and violence against women 
in  any  form.  The  report  includes  the  outcomes  of  the 
universal  periodic  review  for  many  countries,  and  in 
that  regard,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the  fact  that 
the  full,  practical  implementation  of  human  rights  is 
the responsibility of the States concerned and requires 
concerted  effort  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community.
The concept of human rights is directly linked to 
the achievement of development goals, since prosperity 
for  nations  and  peoples  is  measured  in  part  by  their 
commitment  to  the  principles  of  human  rights.  The 
Charter of the United Nations also urges us to uphold 
human rights and basic freedoms. In that context, I would 
like to affirm that the State of Kuwait is committed to 
observing the criteria and standards for human rights. 
Our  Constitution  reflects  human  rights  agreements, 
instruments  and  conventions.  We  have  established 
rights  such  as  the  right  to  freedom  of  expression  and 
the right to life. Article 7 of our Constitution stipulates 
that freedom, equality and justice are the pillars of our 
society,  as  are  cooperation  and  harmony  among  our 
citizens.
Since  the  submission  in  2010  of  its  first  report 
to  the  universal  periodic  review  mechanism,  Kuwait 
has  worked  hard  to  implement  the  outcomes  of  that 
exercise.  We  have  formed  a  committee  to  coordinate 
national  efforts  in  implementing  voluntary  pledges 
and  country-specific  recommendations.  Those  efforts 
have been translated into a draft bill for establishing an 
office for human rights, based on the Paris Principles on 
the status of national human rights institutions. Kuwait 
will present its second national report to the universal 
periodic review in January 2015.
Regarding  international  conventions,  we  recently 
ratified  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons 
with  Disabilities.  We  have  also  established  national 
mechanisms  designed  to  strengthen  human  rights, 
including a commission within the National Assembly 
of  Kuwait  for  the  defence  of  human  rights.  We  have 
also  established  national  authorities  for  combating 
corruption  and  supervising  the  workforces  in  various 
sectors.
including 
international, 
Kuwait  provides  a  great  deal  of  humanitarian 
assistance  through  non-governmental  organizations, 
national  and 
the  United 
Nations  Human  Rights  Council.  We  believe  that  it  is 
important to strengthen peace, security and respect for 
human rights around the world. To that end, we hosted 
the  first  and  second  donor  conferences  in  support 
of  humanitarian  work  in  Syria,  aimed  at  easing  the 
suffering of the brotherly people of that country. In that 
regard,  we  have  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  in  the 
Third  Committee  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in 
Syria, which strongly condemns the grave, widespread 
violations  there  of  international  humanitarian  and 
human rights law.
In the context of this discussion of human rights and 
the importance of respecting individuals’ humanity, we 
strongly  condemn  Israel’s  continued  and  oppressive 
policies  and  practices,  which  continue  to  violate  the 
basic  principles  with  regard  to  the  human  rights  of 
the unarmed Palestinian people living in the occupied 
territories.  We  call  on  the  international  community 
to  continue  to  shoulder  its  responsibilities  by  forcing 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  comply  with  the 
relevant resolutions on international legitimacy, to end 
its  aggressive  and  expansionist  policies,  and  to  abide 
by international law and the principles of human rights.
In  conclusion,  Kuwait  would  like  to  affirm  its 
respect for all international human rights conventions 
and  instruments.  We  also  encourage  all  efforts  to 
uphold human rights. We believe that it is essential to 
work to cooperate in that area in order to achieve the 
goal that we all desire, which is the advancement and 
prosperity of our peoples and nations.
8/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council for his report (A/69/53).
Civil  society’s  participation  in  the  work  of  the 
United Nations is fundamental and particularly crucial 
to  the  functioning  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
Switzerland is concerned, however, about the growing 
number of instances of intimidation and reprisals against 
members  of  civil  society  while  they  exercise  their 
fundamental rights in providing first-hand information 
to  the  representatives  of  United  Nations  mechanisms. 
While  protecting  such  people  is  itself  a  priority,  it 
should be even more so considering that civil society’s 
participation  at  every  level,  international,  national  or 
local, is essential to enabling United Nations organs to 
fulfil their mandates. Switzerland calls on all Member 
States  to  work  together  to  deal  with  that  worrisome  
development in order to put an end to reprisals against 
those key partners of the United Nations system.
Switzerland  welcomes  the  efforts  to  improve  the 
Human  Rights  Council’s  working  methods  launched 
under  the  current  President’s  leadership,  for  example 
by  putting  strict  limits  on  delegations’  speaking  time 
during  interactive  dialogues.  We  note  with  regret, 
however,  that  on  two  occasions  the  nomination  of 
special  procedures  mandate-holders  of  the  Council 
had  to  be  postponed.  The  necessity  of  improving  the 
Council’s working methods is a direct result of the major 
increase  in  the  Council’s  activity  during  its  sessions, 
whether  owing  to  the  creation  of  new  mandates  or 
the launch of new initiatives. While positive in itself, 
that development nonetheless results in problems with 
resources,  particularly  with  regard  to  financing  such 
activities. The fact is that, despite the fact that human 
rights  constitutes  one  of  the  three  basic  pillars  of 
the  United  Nations,  it  receives  only  3  per  cent  of  the 
Organization’s regular budget.
It was for that reason that Switzerland, together with 
Mexico,  Morocco,  Norway  and  Turkey  and  on  behalf 
of 50 other States, addressed a letter to the Secretary-
General  dated  15  July  expressing  its  concern  about 
the chronic underfunding of the human rights pillar of 
the United Nations. The outline of the draft budget for 
the 2016-2017 biennium is due to be introduced in the 
General Assembly’s Fifth Committee on Wednesday. In 
that context, Switzerland will maintain its commitment 
to improving the financing of the activities of the Office 
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights through 
the regular budget.
Switzerland  is  pleased  to  note  that  during  its 
current  presidency,  the  Council  has  done  justice 
to  one  of  the  most  important  duties  of  its  mandate, 
namely,  addressing  situations  in  the  world  where  the 
worst violations of human rights are taking place. We 
welcome the fact that under the current presidency the 
crises  in  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  and  Iraq  have  been  examined  in 
special sessions and that the tragic situations in Syria 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  have 
also come under the Council’s scrutiny.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  assure  the  President  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  of  Switzerland’s  full 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  institutions  based  in 
Geneva,  particularly  the  Human  Rights  Council,  in 
their ongoing efforts to carry out their essential tasks 
of protecting and promoting human rights.
Mr.  Barriga  (Liechtenstein):  We  welcome  the 
President of the Human Rights Council, Mr. Baudelaire 
Ndong Ella, and thank him for presenting the Council’s 
report  today  (A/69/53).  The  report  illustrates  once 
again the Council’s relevance and its ability to address 
emerging  human  rights  challenges.  The  universal 
periodic  review  (UPR)  also  continues  to  be  a  very 
valuable  mechanism,  and  we  are  pleased  to  see  that 
its  universal  nature  has  been  safeguarded.  The  added 
value  of  the  UPR  lies,  in  particular,  in  the  effective 
follow-up and implementation of recommendations that 
States  accept  in  their  dialogues  with  their  peers.  The 
coming years will therefore be decisive for proving the 
mechanism’s effectiveness.
At  the  time  of  his  election,  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  emphasized  his  support  for 
efforts aimed at protecting people who have cooperated 
with  human  rights  bodies.  This  is  a  central  challenge 
for the United Nations human rights machinery, and we 
therefore fully supported the adoption of Human Rights 
Council resolution 24/24 last year on ending reprisals 
against individuals or groups cooperating with the United 
Nations. When human rights defenders face retaliation 
for  speaking  up,  not  only  are  their  individual  rights 
violated, but the human rights mechanisms themselves 
are under attack. It is unfortunate that that resolution 
still awaits implementation pending action in the Third 
Committee,  which  is  contrary  to  the  understanding 
established  of  the  institutional  relationship  between 
the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council. 
Mr.  President,  we  look  forward  to  your  leadership  in 
that respect.
14-63039
9/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
In Human Rights Council resolution 27/31, on civil 
society space, the Council underlined the significance 
of a safe and enabling environment for civil society and 
in  particular  for  persons  belonging  to  minorities  and 
vulnerable  groups.  We  commend  the  Council  on  that 
important decision and are particularly pleased that it 
was  adopted  by  consensus.  The  resolution  promotes 
fundamental freedoms that are very important for the 
work of the Council and the United Nations in general. 
Liechtenstein therefore strongly supports it and hopes 
that it will be implemented shortly.
An  increasingly  important  tool  of  the  Human 
Rights Council are the commissions of inquiry that it 
has  established  in  connection  with  some  of  the  most 
serious  human  rights  crises,  including  those  in  Syria 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
the Syrian Arab Republic has carried out valuable work 
in  gathering  evidence  of  mass  atrocities.  Regrettably, 
it  has  not  been  able  to  galvanize  the  political  action 
necessary to put an end to those atrocities — quite the 
contrary, relevant efforts were stymied in the Security 
Council earlier this year by a double veto.
We  believe  therefore  that  the  Commission  should 
focus  more  strongly  on  gathering  and  preserving 
information  in  such  a  way  that  it  can  be  used  in  a 
court at a later stage. Those who have perpetrated the 
most  serious  crimes  under  international  law  must  not 
be  able  to  run  out  the  clock  on  justice.  Liechtenstein 
continues  to  believe  that  the  International  Criminal 
Court would be the appropriate institution to deal with 
the situation in Syria. At the same time, complementary 
accountability  tracks  will  be  necessary,  owing  to  the 
sheer  scale  of  the  crimes  committed  and  the  number 
of  perpetrators  involved.  We  must  therefore  continue 
exploring all viable options to ensure accountability for 
those crimes.
The  Council  has  also  expressed  itself  again  on 
the  right  to  privacy,  an  issue  that  is  also  high  on  the 
agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  digital  era  has 
allowed States to pursue law enforcement in a manner 
that greatly challenges the right to privacy. We believe 
that  it  is  high  time  that  we  discuss  surveillance 
practices — both at the individual level and on a larger 
scale — from a human rights perspective. In doing so, 
we must preserve the spirit of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant 
on  Civil  and  Political  Rights.  Fighting  all  forms  of 
crime, including terrorism and transnational organized 
crime, are, of course, legitimate aims that may justify 
surveillance.
But 
just  because  electronic  surveillance  has 
become  an  easy 
tool,  States  must  not  become 
complacent  in  making  the  sometimes  difficult  call 
as  to  whether  the  value  produced  by  the  surveillance 
would  be  proportionate  to  the  negative  effect  caused 
by  the  interference  with  privacy.  Mass  surveillance 
certainly seems almost impossible to justify from that 
perspective.  That  and  many  other  complex  questions 
regarding the right to privacy in the digital age require 
further discussion and study, which is why we support 
the establishment of a special procedure on that topic.
the  Office  of 
Finally,  Liechtenstein  notes  with  deep  concern 
the  underresourcing  of 
the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR).  That 
issue  is  of  obvious  concern  for  the  work  of  Human 
Rights Council, because a considerable amount of the 
very limited regular budget resources allocated to the 
Office is spent on servicing the Council and activities 
attached  to  it.  In  a  letter  signed  by  Liechtenstein  and 
54 other Member States in July 2014 and addressed to 
the Secretary-General, we emphasized that the United 
Nations regular budget for the OHCHR should at least 
cover all costs of the activities mandated by the Human 
Rights Council. Sufficient funding of the human rights 
pillar of the United Nations is not only crucial for the 
Human Rights Council, it is essential for the whole of 
the United Nations.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
President of the Human Rights Council, my colleague, 
Ambassador  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella.  I  can  assure  the 
Assembly  that  we  are  determined  to  continue  our 
constructive  cooperation  with  him  in  order  to  ensure 
the protection of human rights in all Member States in 
a fair and equitable manner and in accordance with the 
Human Rights Council’s mandate. We intend to do so 
without any of the politicized and unbalanced measures 
or double standards that have led to the failure of many 
of the actions undertaken in New York and Geneva.
We have taken note of the Council’s report (A/69/53) 
with  a  great  deal  of  interest.  We  have  also  made 
ourselves familiar with their contents and we have taken 
note of the many important issues to which the Council 
has referred, in particular the human rights violations 
that have occurred in the occupied Arab territory of the 
Syrian  Golan  and  the  Palestinian  territory.  Forty-six 
years after the beginning of the unjust Israeli occupation 
10/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
in the Syrian Golan and despite the demands voiced by 
the  Human  Rights  Council  that  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power, implement the resolutions of all United Nations 
bodies  and  agencies,  Israel  continues  to  challenge 
Member States by refusing to implement the provisions 
of those resolutions. There have been dozens of United 
Nations  resolutions  on  that  matter,  as  the  Assembly 
is  well  aware.  Israeli  perpetrators  of  war  crimes  and 
crimes  against  humanity  enjoy  full  impunity  and  are 
not subject to any accountability, sanctions or penalties 
whatsoever  for  their  crimes.  Israeli  leaders  are  not 
being  held  to  account  or  prosecuted.  They  blatantly 
disregard all the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  rules  of  international  law,  including 
the Hague Conventions of 1907, as well as the Geneva 
Conventions of 1949.
Unfortunately, a group of Member States with great 
influence in this international Organization continues 
to  try  to  transform  the  Human  Rights  Council  into  a 
private  domain  that  serves  specific  non-humanitarian 
political agendas. That runs counter to the spirit under 
which the Human Rights Council was created and to its 
mandate. We saw that very clearly with the adoption of 
a  number  of  resolutions  that  had  political  dimensions 
and objectives.
The Human Rights Council condemns human rights 
violations in some countries, but it does not condemn 
the same violations in others. Furthermore, the Council 
remains  silent  on  some  mechanisms  that  deal  with 
human  rights  situations  and  violations  in  a  racist, 
ethnically biased and xenophobic way, discriminating 
against 
indigenous  people  and  foreign  migrants. 
Foreign migrants and workers, detainees and refugees 
are  treated  inhumanely  in  certain  countries.  Certain 
countries  have  even  carried  out  military  invasions 
of  other  States  Members  of  the  Organization.  There 
are  militias,  agents,  ignorant  people  and  extremists, 
as  well  as  a  whole  range  of  groups,  that  flout  the 
right  to  development  by  adopting  unilateral  coercive 
economic  measures  against  developing  countries  and 
by sponsoring terrorism. The list is long.
The Syrian Government has offered a full range of 
cooperative measures with United Nations mechanisms 
in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the  national  crisis  in  the 
Syrian Arab Republic in its political and humanitarian 
dimensions. We regret that the Human Rights Council 
has  not  sent  any  positive  signals  with  respect  to  the 
Syrian  Government’s  great  efforts  to  cooperate  with 
United  Nations  entities,  or  acknowledging  that  the 
Syrian  Government  has  assumed  its  responsibility  to 
act in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations 
and international law. My Government has assumed its 
responsibilities  with  respect  to  those  various  groups 
and  has  taken  measures  to  protect  the  country  from 
terrorists, terrorism and chaos.
Yet  we  see  that  States  members  of  the  Council, 
including whole blocs, continue unrelentingly to seek to 
undermine other countries, especially with respect to the 
political and humanitarian situation, and to perpetuate 
the shedding of Syrian blood. My country is facing a 
very difficult humanitarian situation, and that bloc of 
countries is determined to adopt a series of unilateral 
and politicized resolutions that will adversely impact my 
country and condemn its Government. They are trying 
to  force  my  country  to  surrender  its  sovereign  rights 
over  its  territory  through  a  campaign  of  colonialism 
and  ethnic  cleansing.  Through  that  campaign,  Israel 
is also trying to divide the countries of the region by 
exploiting  religious,  ethnic  and  sectarian  differences, 
among  others.  That  runs  counter  to  the  principles  of 
modern  States  and  reflects  a  weak  and  vulnerable 
position based on ethnic cleansing, discrimination and 
non-peaceful coexistence. It represents a trend through 
which international human rights law and international 
humanitarian law are flouted.
Again, 
the  Council  has  adopted  biased  and 
politicized  resolutions  against  my  country,  Syria.  My 
country therefore believes that such resolutions, which 
are introduced in the Council every few months, do not 
give other States a chance to understand what is really 
happening  in  Syria.  Sometimes  the  sponsors  of  such 
resolutions  do  not  take  such  issues  as  terrorism  into 
account. The Syrian Government and its people play a 
key regional role.
The resolutions do not reflect my country’s reality. 
They  deny  the  existence  and  presence  of  terrorist 
and  extremist  groups  in  Syria.  The  international 
community is closing its eyes to the gruesome scenes 
and assassinations perpetrated in Syria by the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the Al-Nusra Front 
and groups linked to Al-Qaida. Those entities refuse to 
recognize that my country’s natural resources, including 
petroleum, fuel and other resources, are being sold in 
Europe  by  Turkish  intermediaries,  in  violation  of  the 
provisions  of  presidential  statement  S/PRST/2014/14, 
of  July  2014,  as  well  as  Security  Council  resolutions 
2170 (2014) and 2178 (2014). There is such an influx of 
terrorists into Syria from neighbouring countries that 
14-63039
11/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
those groups are now spreading to other States in the 
region, threatening all of them and the rest of the world.
Assistant  Secretary-General   Toyberg-Frandzen 
referred to that situation in his 17 November briefing 
to the Security Council on the situation in the Middle 
East (see S/PV.7312). He described the members of the 
Al-Nusra  Front  and  its  activities  along  the  separation 
line in the Syrian Golan as belonging to the Syrian armed 
opposition. The Al-Nusra Front is a terrorist group. All 
the elements to which the Assistant-Secretary-General 
referred are led by a Jordanian terrorist who kidnapped 
personnel  from  the  Fiji  unit  serving  with  the  United 
Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon,  took  photographs 
with them and identified himself.
How is it possible for opposition elements that are 
led  by  a  Jordanian  to  be  Syrian?  That  is  the  result  of 
funds  arriving  every  day  from  other  countries,  such 
as Qatar. Every day, reference is made to elements of 
the  Syrian  armed  opposition,  which  means  that  there 
is  an  error  in  the  Organization’s  approach.  It  is  an 
inaccurate interpretation of the situation in the Syrian 
Arab Republic. Today, more than three years after the 
terrorist  incursion  in  Syria,  we  have  seen  a  number 
of  draft  reports  introduced  against  my  country.  The 
danger of terrorism has spread to the countries of the 
region and around the world. The presence of terrorist 
groups in Syria has finally been recognized in the most 
recent resolution.
The 
independent 
international  commission  of 
inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic lacks credibility, 
because it is subjective and totally biased. It supports 
the  agenda  of  a  handful  of  wealthy  countries  that 
belong  to  a  certain  group,  which  means  that  the 
Commission has changed its position. The Commission 
acknowledged the existence of terrorist elements in the 
country. However, some countries refuse to recognize 
that because it does not serve their interests.
The Commission has issued a paper on the crimes 
and  violations  committed  by  ISIL  in  Syria,  entitled 
“Rule  of  terror:  living  under  ISIL  in  Syria”.  Despite 
the  flagrant  violations  committed  by  ISIL  in  Syria, 
as  described  in  the  paper,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
report does not demand that Qatar and the Saudi regime 
cease  their  support  for  the  flow  of  foreign  terrorists 
from  Turkey  into  Syria  across  our  common  borders; 
that  the  Qatari  and  Saudi  regimes  stop  financing  the 
terrorists;  or  that  the  United  States,  France  and  other 
Western  States  abide  by  their  commitments  under 
Security  Council  resolutions  2170  (2014)  and  2178 
(2014).  However,  paragraph  11  of  the  Commission’s 
report notes that
(spoke in English)
“The  external 
support  provided 
in  Syria  has  contributed 
to  all 
to 
the 
belligerents 
armed  groups,  ultimately 
radicalization  of 
ISIS.  Charity  organizations  and 
benefitting 
wealthy individuals funded radical entities willing 
to promote their ideologies and serve their agendas. 
Arms  and  support  provided  to  armed  groups 
deemed as moderate have repeatedly fallen into the 
hands of more radical actors, including ISIS.”
(spoke in Arabic)
Those are the words of the report. Today we have heard 
that  the  United  Arab  Emirates  authorities  have  listed 
83  groups  that  deal  with  Muslims  and  the  Islamic 
religion  as  terrorist  organizations,  transforming  that 
religion  and  its  individual  followers  into  commercial 
products, notably in the Gulf States.
Unfortunately,  the  new  resolutions  have  come  a 
little  late,  which  has  led  to  the  loss  of  many  lives  in 
Syria, Lebanon and Egypt. The politicized resolutions 
against the Syrian Government adopted by the Council 
have undermined the Syrian people and increased their 
suffering, because the resolutions have sent the wrong 
messages to the terrorists and those who sponsor them. 
The effect of these resolutions is to protect those people 
and offer them impunity for crimes in the future.
The  resolutions  have  also  frustrated  international 
efforts to ensure that the Human Rights Council is able 
to address all violations of human rights throughout the 
world within clear frameworks that apply to all without 
discrimination, as noted by Mr. Baudelaire Ndong Ella 
earlier. The Council is a body that is run with funding 
from  Qatar  and  Saudi  Arabia,  and  by  hegemonic 
Powers  that  toy  with  human  rights.  Its  resolutions 
had  been  blocked  for  many  years  and  have  in  turn 
hampered the cooperation and openness that Syria has 
recently demonstrated in dealing with the international 
commissions. Those are now well-known issues. They 
are not negotiable or open to question. There is no doubt 
about the situation.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  recall  to  Member 
States that the primary motivation for the establishment 
of 
the  shared 
understanding that a number of influential States had 
politicized human rights in the work of the Comission 
the  Human  Rights  Council  was 
12/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
to 
them.  The  so-called 
on  Human  Rights  and  had  sought  to  adopt  agendas 
convenient 
international 
community therefore came together to try to transform 
the  Commission  into  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
to adopt a follow-up mechanism, the universal periodic 
review, so as to address all human rights matters on an 
equal footing — that is, to deal with all Governments 
in  an  equitable  manner  without  any  distinction 
or  politicization.  That  is  a  dream  that  has  not  yet, 
unfortunately, become a reality, with adverse impacts 
on the great hopes expressed by all and entrusted to the 
United Nations to protect and promote human rights.
Mr.  Jiddou  (Mauritania):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of African 
States.  The  African  Group  welcomes  the  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Mr.  Baudelaire  Ndong 
Ella, to the General Assembly and wishes to extend our 
appreciation for the opportunity to engage in a general 
debate  on  the  activities  of  the  Council,  as  presented 
in  document  A/69/53  and  its  addendum.  The  Group 
commends  the  Council  President  for  his  leadership, 
his  commitment  to  the  work  of  that  body  during  his 
tenure,  his  professionalism  and  the  constructive  and 
transparent way in which he conducts the work of the 
Council.  The  Group  wishes  to  express  its  continuous 
support for his endeavours.
to  reaffirm 
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The  African  Group  wishes 
the 
Council’s  mandate,  as  contained  in  resolution  60/251, 
in  promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of 
all  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all, 
without distinction of any kind and in a fair and equal 
manner,  and  to  make  recommendations  thereon.  It 
is  on  that  basis  that  the  Group  has  been  consistently 
supportive of the work of the Council. The Group views 
the  principles  underpinning  the  Council’s  mandate 
as  extremely  important,  particularly  with  respect  to 
the  principle  of  cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue 
aimed at strengthening the capacity of Member States 
to  comply  with  their  human  rights  obligations.  It  is 
therefore incumbent upon the Council, in discharging 
its mandate, to firmly ground its work on universality, 
objectivity and non-selectivity in the consideration of 
human rights issues.
The  Group  is  of  the  view  that  the  universal 
participation  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  is 
of  paramount  importance.  In  that  regard,  the  Group 
warmly  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  Voluntary 
Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance to support 
the  participation  of  the  least  developed  countries  and 
the  small  island  developing  States  in  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  The  Group  further  welcomes 
the steps taken for the operationalization of the Fund, 
including the facilitation of the participation of experts 
from  member  countries  in  the  Council  sessions.  The 
Group would like to encourage the President to ensure 
that more African countries benefit from the Fund.
The African Group is convinced that the universal 
periodic  review  (UPR)  remains  the  most  distinct 
mechanism  of  universal  application  to  assist  States 
in  fulfilling  their  human  rights  obligations.  In  our 
view,  the  mechanism  remains  relevant  and  is  key  in 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  The 
Group would like to reaffirm the need to preserve the 
mechanism’s  cooperative  nature  and  the  principle  of 
dialogue.  The  Group  firmly  believes  that  it  is  critical 
that  the  United  Nations  Voluntary  Fund  for  Financial 
and Technical Assistance for the implementation of the 
UPR  recommendations  be  properly  resourced  for  the 
purpose  of  assisting  States  to  develop  their  national 
capacity  and  expertise  for  the  implementation  of  the 
accepted recommendations.
While  the  African  Group  reiterates  its  support 
for  the  mechanism  and  the  special  procedures  of  the 
Council  and  the  important  work  they  undertake  in 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms, the Group believes that there is 
a need for the rationalization of the mechanism and the 
special procedures so as to ensure their effectiveness. 
The Group would also like to emphasize the need for 
the procedures to comply with the institution-building 
package,  the  code  of  conduct  of  mandate-holders  and 
the terms of reference of their respective mandates.
In  recent  times,  the  Council  has  faced  challenges 
relating to governance, particularly with regard to the 
erosion  of  the  provisions  of  the  institution-building 
package,  which  is  the  solid  foundation  on  which  the 
Council’s mandate rests. The Group is concerned that 
this erosion could, in the long run, present credibility 
gaps in the Council’s work.
While the Group has also noted the immense amount 
of  work  that  the  Council  undertakes  at  each  session, 
the  challenges  presented  by  a  shortage  of  funding 
remains  unresolved.  The  African  Group  believes, 
therefore, that those funding shortages will affect the 
implementation of the decisions and resolutions of the 
14-63039
13/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
Council. We also wish to recognize the key role played 
by  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  as  the  secretariat  of  the  Council,  in  ensuring 
that appropriate support is given to the Council, in line 
with the framework of resolution 48/141. The African 
Group  takes  note  of  the  High  Commissioner’s  appeal 
made  during  the  general  debate  at  this  session.  The 
Group would therefore like to underline the necessity 
for activities mandated by the Human Rights Council 
to be funded from the regular budget.
The  annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
presents  in  a  comprehensive  manner  the  resolutions 
that  were  adopted  by  the  Council  during  its  yearly 
deliberations.  The  Group  is  also  cognizant  of  the 
provisions  of  paragraph  5  (i)  of  resolution  60/251, 
which  provides  for  recommendations  to  be  made 
by  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  Group 
therefore supports having the universal membership of 
the  General  Assembly  deliberate  on  those  important 
matters.
This year has been marked by preparations for the 
twentieth anniversary of the International Year of the 
Family, which the General Assembly will celebrate this 
year on 3 December. The preparations for its observance 
have centred on the themes of poverty, work and family, 
and intergenerational solidarity, as well as the various 
and multidimensional challenges facing the family.
The African Union adopted the African Union Plan 
of Action on the Family in Africa in 2004, and in 2012 
adopted  the  African  Common  Position  on  the  Family 
for the twentieth anniversary of the International Year 
of the Family. The Group reaffirms that the family is 
the natural and fundamental group unit of society, and it 
plays a critical role in the development and the mending 
of the social fabric. In that regard, the Group reaffirms 
its call to the United Nations Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals to include the important 
role  of  the  family  in  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development  goals.  We  must  continue  directing  our 
efforts toward strengthening and protecting the family 
by  relieving  the  plight  of  members  of  every  African 
family, particularly women and girls living in poverty.
In  that  regard,  the  African  Group  welcomes  the 
adoption of Human Rights Council resolution 26/11 on 
the protection of the family on 26 June 2014, and looks 
forward to the summary report on the panel discussion 
held  in  September  2014  on  the  challenges  and  best 
practices  relating  to  the  protection  of  the  family.  We 
urge  Member  States,  the  United  Nations  system  and 
non-governmental organizations to continue to devote 
special  attention  and  resources  to  protecting  the 
family as “the natural and fundamental group unit of 
society,” in accordance with article 16 of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The  African  Group  is 
strongly concerned by attempts to impose new notions 
and  concepts  in  that  regard  that  are  not  referenced  in 
international human rights law.
The  principle  of  non-discrimination  and  equality 
are two faces of the same coin. They are indeed cross-
cutting  principles  in  the  vast  areas  related  to  the  full 
realization  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  for  all.  Such  principles  are  well  entrenched 
in the Charter of the United Nations and internationally 
agreed human rights instruments, as they all reaffirm 
the  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights,  in  the  dignity 
and worth of the human person, and in the equal rights 
of men and women, without distinction.
In  that  context,  we  are  seriously  concerned  at 
the  attempt  to  introduce  into  the  United  Nations 
some  notions  that  have  no  legal  foundations  in  any 
international  human  rights  instrument.  We  are  even 
more  disturbed  at  the  attempts  to  focus  on  certain 
persons on the grounds of their sexual preferences and 
behaviours, while ignoring the fact that intolerance and 
discrimination, regrettably, exist in various parts of the 
world, be it on the basis of colour, race, sex or religion, 
to mention only a few.
The adoption of Council resolution 27/32, entitled 
“Human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity,” 
adopted  on  26  September,  is  an  illustration  of  such 
attempts.  The  Group  is  therefore  concerned  that 
non-internationally-agreed  notions,  such  as  sexual 
orientation  and  gender  identity,  are  given  attention  to 
the detriment of issues of paramount importance, such 
as the right to development and the racism agenda. The 
Group  particularly  deplores  the  obstacles  impeding 
the advancement of the work of the Intergovernmental 
Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the 
Working Group on the Right to Development.
Our  alarm  does  not  merely  stem  from  concerns 
about  the  lack  of  legal  grounds,  or  that  the  said 
resolution  delves  into  matters  that  fall  essentially 
within  the  domestic  jurisdiction  of  States,  contrary 
to  the  commitment  in  the  United  Nations  Charter 
to  respect  the  sovereignty  of  States  and  the  principle 
of  non-intervention.  More  importantly,  our  concern 
arises  from  the  ominous  usage  of  those  two  notions: 
14/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
sexual orientation and gender identity. We affirm that 
those  two  notions  are  not,  and  should  not  be,  linked 
to  existing  international  human  rights  instruments. 
We  believe  that  people  are  not  inherently  vulnerable, 
but  some  individuals  and  groups  find  themselves  in 
vulnerable  situations  owing  to  a  number  of  factors, 
including the socioeconomic setting they live in. Such 
individuals  and  groups  include,  for  example,  women, 
children, the elderly, persons with disabilities, peoples 
under foreign occupation, refugees, asylum seekers and 
internally displaced persons.
We  deplore  all  forms  of  stereotyping,  exclusion, 
stigmatization,  prejudice,  intolerance,  discrimination 
or  violence  directed  against  peoples,  communities  or 
individuals  on  any  grounds  whatsoever  and  wherever 
they occur. We also reaffirm article 29 of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the right of Member 
States  to  enact  laws  that  meet  the  just  requirements 
of  morality,  public  order  and  general  welfare  in  a 
democratic society.
We recognize that the rights listed in the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  have  been  codified  in 
subsequent  international  legal  instruments.  We  note 
with  concern,  however,  the  attempts  that  have  been 
made  to  create  new  rights  or  standards  through  the 
misinterpretation  of  the  Universal  Declaration  and 
international treaties to include notions that were never 
articulated or agreed by the general membership. Such 
attempts not only undermine the intent of the drafters 
and signatories of those human rights instruments, they 
also seriously jeopardize the entire international human 
rights framework.
We therefore call on all Member States to refrain 
from  attempting  to  give  priority  to  the  rights  of 
certain  individuals,  which  could  result  in  negative 
discrimination  at  the  expense  of  other  internationally 
agreed rights and thus run counter to the principles of 
non-discrimination and equality. We call on all Member 
States to continue with and step up their efforts aimed 
at  the  total  elimination  of  all  forms  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  examples  of 
intolerance.  We  also  urge  all  States  and  the  relevant 
international  human  rights  mechanisms  to  intensify 
their  efforts  to  consolidate  their  commitment  to  the 
promotion and protection of the human rights of all, on 
an equal footing and without exception.
In conclusion, the African Group wishes to assure 
the President of the Human Rights Council of its support 
in the Council’s preparations for its ninth cycle year.
Mrs.  Smaila  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  warmly 
welcomes the President of the Human Rights Council, 
Ambassador  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella,  to  New  York  for 
this  important  event,  namely,  the  presentation  of  the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/69/53).  We 
commend  and  thank  Ambassador  Ndong  Ella  for  his 
leadership  of  the  Council,  as  we  also  commend  and 
thank  his  predecessor,  Ambassador  Henczel,  for  his 
contributions to advancing the Council’s work.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by  the  representative  of  Mauritania  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States.
Nigeria,  as  a  democratic  country,  attaches  great 
importance to respect for human rights and fundamental 
freedoms,  not  only  within  our  country  but  across  the 
world. It is for that reason that we are actively engaged 
with  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  are  interested  in 
seeing  that  the  Council  fulfils  the  mandate  given  to 
it  by  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  to  promote  and 
protect fundamental human rights. That is also why we 
sought re-election to the Council this year. We thank all 
Member States for supporting our candidature.
We  are  pleased  to  note  the  substantial  effort  that 
the  Council  has  put  into  fulfilling  its  mandate.  The 
fact that it meets in three regular sessions each year, as 
well as special sessions, enables it to devote attention 
to global human rights issues in a timely and effective 
manner. The Council’s various special procedures are 
also significant in that regard. The wide range of issues 
covered in the report of the Council, and even the report’s 
sheer volume, reflects the complexity and multiplicity 
of issues that the Council has to deal with. We urge that 
the Council’s work continue to be guided by resolution 
60/251  and  be  solidly  grounded  in  the  fundamental 
principles  underpinning  the  Vienna  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action on human rights. While we see 
the  Council  as  a  unique  tool  for  the  protection  and 
promotion of all human rights, whether civil, political, 
economic, social or cultural, we also hold the view that 
a focus on economic, social and cultural rights might be 
the Council’s own contribution to helping States attain 
the Millennium Development Goals.
The universal periodic review (UPR) has proved to 
be quite successful so far. It is remarkable that, since 
the  first  session  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
Working  Group  in  February  2008,  the  mechanism 
has  attracted  a  high  degree  of  participation  on  the 
part  of  States.  Its  second  cycle  has  unquestionably 
reinforced  the  importance  of  the  UPR  mechanism  as 
14-63039
15/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
a  means  of  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights 
across the world. We are pleased to note the substantial 
increase in the number of standing invitations issued to 
special-procedures  mandate-holders,  and  the  growing 
number of States that are ratifying the core humanrights 
instruments.  Nigeria  is  one  of  the  countries  that  has 
issued  such  a  standing  invitation  in  a  demonstration 
of our commitment to working with the Council as it 
pursues its mandate.
The  considerable  number  of  resolutions  adopted 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  the  past  year  is  a 
reflection of the wide array of issues that the Council 
deals with. However, it is a fact that those resolutions 
come with programme-budget implications that create 
funding  challenges.  Nigeria  therefore  supports  the 
call to the General Assembly to significantly improve 
funding  for  the  Council’s  work.  We  also  call  on  the 
Assembly to address the financial constraints that the 
special-procedures  mandate-holders  appointed  by  the 
Council face in carrying out their mandates.
Nigeria  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  fact  that 
people around the world expect the United Nations to 
protect their human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
We  see  evidence  of  that  in  the  active  participation 
of  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  in  the 
activities of the Human Rights Council. We welcome the 
Council’s engagement with NGOs as a way of allowing 
the  people’s  voice  to  be  heard.  We  would  also  like  to 
see  the  Council  pay  greater  attention  to  the  human 
rights  situations  in  all  non-self-governing  territories, 
particularly in order to hold the administering Powers 
to their commitment to prepare such territories for full 
independence.
We  note  with  concern  the  growing  number  of 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
that  include  issues  that  are  not  part  of  universally 
agreed human rights norms. We caution the Council to 
remain within the boundaries of a discussion of agreed 
human rights issues and not to stray into areas that are 
intrinsically divisive and controversial and do not reflect 
well on the Council’s integrity and esteem. The Council 
should  remain  a  respected  and  cherished  instrument 
for  promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of 
all  agreed  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
Its  reports  should  therefore  be  free  of  any  issues  that 
could reflect divisive opinions or impose obligations on 
Member  States  that  they  cannot  faithfully  implement 
because they conflict with their peoples’ values.
Finally, we would like to underscore the importance 
of  States’  cooperation  in  advancing  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  and  we  take  this  opportunity 
to affirm our unwavering commitment to cooperating 
with  all  States  in  that  regard.  We  look  forward  to 
the  Assembly’s  commemoration  on  10  December  of 
International Human Rights Day and the launching of 
the International Decade of People of African Descent.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  warmly 
welcomes  Ambassador  Baudelaire  Ndong  Ella, 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and  his 
statement to the General Assembly and his presentation 
of the Council’s report (A/69/53). Malaysia appreciates 
the leadership role played by Ambassador Ndong Ella, 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Gabonese  Republic 
to  the  United  Nations  in  Geneva,  in  carrying  out  his 
mandate to support the work of the Council.
interdependent  and 
Malaysia reaffirms that human rights are universal, 
indivisible, 
interrelated.  The 
international  community  must  treat  human  rights 
globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing 
and  with  the  same  emphasis.  Those  basic  principles 
underpin international human rights. Countries should 
not pick and choose which rights they wish to highlight 
or  how  those  rights  should  be  enjoyed,  nor  should 
they  seek  to  impose  on  others  differing  emphases  on 
various  human  rights  or  different  degrees  of  urgency 
derived from their own domestic political expediency 
or external pressures.
Malaysia is pleased that the Human Rights Council 
has continued to make progress within the mandate of 
resolution  60/251  and  within  the  institution-building 
mechanism  of  its  own  resolution  5/1.  After  almost  a 
decade  since  the  Council’s  establishment,  Malaysia 
believes that it has proved its competence and relevance. 
It is increasingly capable of addressing complex human 
rights  issues  and  effecting  changes  on  the  ground 
through  its  decisions.  The  discussions  within  the 
Council are, in our view, a healthy process towards the 
realization  of  the  highest  standards  of  human  rights 
as  enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.
Events around the world, particularly in the Middle 
East and Africa, highlight the magnitude of the work 
that the Council faces. We have seen that the Council, 
notwithstanding the increasing number of agenda items 
before  it,  has  continued  to  focus  its  attention  on  the 
human rights situation of Palestinians in the occupied 
16/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
territory  controlled  by  Israel.  Malaysia  welcomes  the 
Council’s  deliberations  on  that  issue  and  urges  the 
Council to continue to press ahead so as to ensure that 
the Palestinians are afforded their basic rights as human 
beings, including their right to an independent State.
This year, the Council adopted a number of specific 
resolutions  concerning,  inter  alia,  the  situation  of 
human  rights  of  Palestinians,  including  the  right  of 
Palestinians  to  self-determination;  Israeli  settlements 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  and  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan;  the 
human  rights  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem; ensuring respect for 
international law in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including East Jerusalem; and follow-up to the report 
of the United Nations Independent International Fact-
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict. Those resolutions 
reflect the grave situation affecting Palestinians in the 
occupied territory of Palestine.
Malaysia  reiterates  its  call  for  the  realization  of 
the  rights  of  Palestinians  through  a  final  settlement 
to  the  conflict,  which  would  see  the  creation  of  two 
States living side by side in peace and security based 
on the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as the capital 
of  Palestine.  In  addition  to  the  issue  of  Palestine,  my 
delegation also wishes to briefly touch on a few matters 
discussed by the Council.
First,  we  would  like  to  mention  the  universal 
periodic review (UPR). The UPR is a primary human 
rights mechanism whose premise is the equal treatment 
of all countries. In that regard, we are pleased to inform 
the  Assembly  that  Malaysia  presented  its  final  UPR 
report for adoption by the Human Rights Council at its 
twenty-fifth session, on 20 March 2014. After thorough 
consideration,  the  Government  of  Malaysia  accepted 
64.6 per cent, or 150 of the 232 recommendations made 
on various human rights issues. In that regard, Malaysia 
has  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  the  UPR  process 
through its efforts to implement the recommendations 
received.
Secondly,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  belief  that  the 
right to development remains a cornerstone of human 
rights. We urge the international community to devote 
particular consideration to the right to development in 
the  elaboration  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Collectively,  we  must  acknowledge  the  need  to  strive 
for greater acceptance, implementation and recognition 
of the right to development at the international level.
Thirdly,  the  increasing  work  of  the  Council  has 
spurred  a  tremendous  increase  in  the  number  of 
activities  assigned  by  mandate  of  the  Council  to  the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
(OHCHR).  We  have  recently  witnessed  a  remarkable 
surge  of  demands  from  Member  States  for  support 
and expertise from that Office. However, only 45 per 
cent  of  the  OHCHR’s  resources  for  2013  came  from 
the regular budget. In that regard, we reiterate our call, 
made jointly with 54 other delegations in July, for the 
exploration of options that would allow Member States 
to  gradually  increase  resources  for  the  human  rights 
pillar  and  better  align  OHCHR’s  mandated  activities 
with adequate funding through the regular budget.
The final point we wish to stress today concerns the 
process  of  strengthening  and  enhancing  the  effective 
functioning of the human rights treaty body system. In 
view of the complexity of human rights issues, Malaysia 
believes  that  the  intrinsic  responsibility  to  promote 
and protect human rights requires deeper cooperation 
among stakeholders. While human rights treaty bodies 
exist  to  oversee  compliance  by  States  parties  and  to 
monitor  their  efforts  to  improve  human-rights-related 
situations, it is clear that significant residual issues still 
need to be addressed in order to enable human rights 
treaty bodies to meet their objectives. Malaysia remains 
committed to continuing its support for efforts aimed at 
strengthening the human rights treaty bodies.
To  conclude,  we  wish  to  acknowledge  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has,  in  many  respects,  been 
successful.  That  positive  development  has  continued 
under the leadership of the current President. We hope 
that  the  Council  will  carry  on  with  its  good  work  in 
promoting and protecting human rights for all. Malaysia 
would  also  like  to  underscore  that,  despite  the  many 
achievements to date, we believe that more can be done 
to enhance and uphold the rights of victims of human 
rights  violations.  Malaysia  is  committed  to  that  goal 
and will continue to strongly support the work of the 
Council.
Mr.  Viktorov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): I would like, first of all, to congratulate and 
support the States that have been elected members of the 
Human Rights Council at the sixty-ninth session of the 
General Assembly. In 2014, the Russian Federation was 
once again a member of the Human Rights Council. The 
fact  that  Russia’s  candidature  received  the  support  of 
92 per cent of the States voting demonstrates the broad 
recognition  of  the  effectiveness  of  Russia’s  approach, 
14-63039
17/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
which is based on frank and equitable dialogue on the 
issues involved in ensuring fundamental human rights 
and freedoms.
We note that the work of the Council has recently 
shown an increasing bias towards the settling of political 
scores and the unjustified mentoring and ostracizing of 
States for political reasons. We believe that the primary 
task of the Human Rights Council should be to restore 
the  mutually  respectful  nature  of  intergovernmental 
dialogue.  We  believe  that  the  fundamental  principles 
of the Council’s work should be cooperation: equitable 
cooperation  among  States  based  on  respect  for  their 
sovereignty.
In  order  to  make  the  Council’s  activities  more 
effective,  we  need  to  focus  on  the  issue  of  providing 
technical assistance to States, with, however, their direct 
consent. The ongoing attempts to impose upon States 
various  monitoring  procedures  that  often  duplicate 
each other are unfortunate. Their proliferation is a true 
burden to the United Nations budget, and the ends in 
that regard rarely justify the means. We call upon States 
to conscientiously approach the financial impacts of the 
draft  resolutions  they  sponsor  and  seriously  consider 
the budget issue relating to the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights.
We are concerned about the clear trend of using the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  include  various  politically 
charged matters on the agenda of the General Assembly 
with  a  view  to  further  mulling  over  those  topics.  We 
are  worried  about  increased  attempts  to  refer  human 
rights  country  files  to  the  Security  Council  and  the 
International Criminal Court. We think that today the 
only objective mechanism for monitoring the upholding 
of human rights is the universal periodic review, which 
is dependent upon the goodwill of States to follow the 
procedure  and  to  accept  and  implement  the  majority 
of  recommendations  they  subsequently  receive.  We 
think that all participants in the review process and the 
implementation  of  recommendations  should  spare  no 
effort in ensuring that the process remain objective and 
impartial.
We  also  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  a  number 
of  States  attempt  to  bring  matters  into  the  work  of 
the  Council  that  have  no  direct  ties  with  human 
rights  nor  fall  within  the  purview  of  the  Council  as 
established by resolution 60/251. That is demonstrated 
by ongoing attempts to include on the Council’s agenda 
issues  pertaining  to  the  responsibility  to  protect.  We 
believe  that  the  Council,  in  broadening  all  human 
rights — namely, civil, political, economic, social and 
cultural  rights  —  should  discuss  those  rights  on  an 
equal  footing.  Unfortunately,  the  issues  of  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights  continue 
to  garner  a 
disproportionately small amount of attention.
The  Council’s  system  of  special  procedures 
continues to expand. As the process is extremely costly, 
the additional duplication of functions is problematic. 
That  was  made  clear  during  the  dialogue  with  the 
Special  Rapporteurs  and  Independent  Experts  of  the 
Council  and  the  Third  Committee.  In  that  context, 
the  added  value  was,  unfortunately,  not  very  clear. 
We believe that the authors of Human Rights Council 
resolutions should avoid instructing special rapporteurs 
to  send  reports  to  the  General  Assembly,  as  it  would 
seem  the  Assembly  should  decide  for  itself  which 
special procedures reports it should take on board.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  note  that  Russia 
continues  to  support  the  work  of  the  Council.  It  is 
important in our view to ensure that the Council not lose 
the credibility lent to by the General Assembly in 2006. 
The  growing  politicization  in  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, the strengthening of its quasi-judicial 
or monitoring aspects as well as shrinking cooperation 
with it could drag the Council back to the state of the 
Commission on Human Rights that we saw in the 1990s 
and early 2000s, which would once again discredit the 
work of the United Nations in promoting and protecting 
human rights. We stand ready to continue to assist in 
efforts aimed at ensuring that such a turn of events not 
take place.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for his statement made under agenda item 63, “Report 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council”.  It  is  significant  that 
we  are  considering  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  (A/69/53)  at  this  meeting  today,  as  the  sixty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  beginning 
preparations to mark the seventieth anniversary of the 
United Nations in 2015.
The  Human  Rights  Council  was  created  with  a 
mandate given by our leaders at the sixtieth anniversary 
summit  of  the  United  Nations  in  2005  and  came  into 
existence  in  2006.  As  we  draw  closer  to  completing 
a decade in the life of the Human Rights Council, we 
must  remain  mindful  of  the  reasons  for  its  creation 
and reflect our assessment in the outcome of the 2015 
summit.
18/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
The  Council  must  continue  to  perform  its  role  in 
constructive  international  dialogue  and  cooperation 
in solving international problems within a framework 
of  friendly  relations  among  States.  Of  all  the  various 
mechanisms  of  the  Council,  the  universal  periodic 
review  (UPR),  which  is  in  its  second  cycle,  has  had 
remarkable success in encouraging States to recognize 
and resolve gaps in human rights protection. Indeed, it 
has  emerged  as  the  most  positive  and  constructive  of 
processes  and  is  accepted  and  valued  by  all  Member 
States.  We  believe  that  the  strength  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  lies  in  its  adherence  to  the  principles 
of universality, transparency, impartiality, objectivity, 
non-selectivity and constructive international dialogue, 
and the success of the UPR process stands testimony to 
that fact.
The indivisibility, interrelatedness and interdependence 
of all human rights, including the right to development, 
have  been  reiterated  time  and  again  by  the  General 
Assembly. We value the role of the Council in advancing 
the promotion and protection of fundamental rights and 
freedoms  and  appreciate  the  work  accomplished  by  it 
in  addressing  a  wide  range  of  thematic  issues  despite 
funding  shortfalls.  At  the  same  time,  the  increase  in 
the  workload  of  the  Council  must  not,  in  our  view, 
create problems for the participation of Member States, 
particularly  the  smaller  Member  States,  namely,  the 
developing countries.
The  Human  Rights  Council’s  special  procedures 
are  an  important  Council  mechanism  for  a  genuine 
dialogue  for  strengthening  the  capacity  of  Member 
States.  It  is  therefore  of  fundamental  importance 
that  mandate-holders  remain  truly  independent  and 
impartial and carry out their tasks with responsibility 
and sensitivity in accordance with their mandates. Their 
recommendations  should  be  specific,  constructive 
and relevant to the country — and they should not be 
ideologically driven — in order to enable Governments 
to take note of their reports and engage in any follow-
up actions.
Sweeping  generalizations  by  special  procedure 
mandate-holders  does  not  in  any  way  contribute  to 
that  mutually  desired  objective.  Any  reinterpretation 
of  the  Council’s  code  of  conduct  or  departure  from 
their mandates would weaken the important functions 
entrusted  to  them  and  erode  their  credibility.  The 
effectiveness  of  special  procedure  mandate-holders 
would,  in  our  view,  be  seriously  compromised  if  the 
process  of  selecting  these  individuals  was  mired  in 
controversy.
In the context of prevention, serious attention needs 
to be paid on how information related to human rights 
situations is analysed and reported. Modern technology, 
especially the Internet, has transformed the speed and 
reach of information, and one needs to be mindful of 
the  damaging  power  of  misinformation.  The  focus 
should be on advocacy and consensus-building through 
promotion  of  better  understanding  of  human  rights 
issues among Member States and all stakeholders. This 
is  obviously  an  arduous  task  that  requires  investment 
both in terms of time and resources.
We  congratulate  the  new  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Al  Hussein,  and 
would  like  to  extend  our  full  cooperation  to  him  for 
the  successful  discharge  of  his  mandate.  We  value 
the  efforts  and  expertise  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights 
(OHCHR)  in  assisting  States  in  capacity-building.  In 
that  regard,  one  cannot  overemphasize  the  need  for 
balanced representation in its staffing patterns not only 
in terms of gender but also of geography and culture. 
That will only enhance the OHCHR’s understanding of 
the complexities of the world we live in. We reiterate 
our support for an increase in the OHCHR’s financial 
resources  from  the  regular  budget  and  emphasize  the 
importance of greater transparency in the management 
of the extrabudgetary resources.
strategic 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Greater synergy, dialogue and cooperation between 
the Human Rights Council and the OHCHR, particularly 
in 
framework, 
Programme 20, the OHCHR strategic management plan 
and thematic strategies will, in our view, enhance the 
trust of Member States in the OHCHR and advance our 
common endeavour. It would be more effective if such 
linkages were developed within the framework of the 
General Assembly, which is the only organ mandated to 
oversee the work of the Human Rights Council and the 
High Commissioner.
Human  rights  are  recognized  as  one  of  the  three 
pillars  of  the  United  Nations  system,  the  other  two 
being development and peace and security. Without a 
secure and peaceful environment, universal adherence 
to human rights standards will remain an elusive goal. 
Similarly,  the  right  to  development  is  an  inalienable 
human  right  central  to  the  purpose  and  mission  of 
the  United  Nations.  While  we  strive  to  identify  more 
14-63039
19/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
cooperative  methods  for  strengthening  the  normative 
framework for human rights within the United Nations 
system,  it  is  imperative  that  we  ensure  full  respect 
for  the  sovereign  equality,  territorial  integrity  and 
political independence of all Member States, which are 
the  core  principles  of  Article  2  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  specific  situation  and  context  of 
each State must be kept in mind. The commitment to 
the  capacity-building  of  States  should  be  matched  by 
adequate resources and that support should be provided 
based on the request of national Governments and on 
mutual agreements, based on their national priorities.
India remains firmly committed to the idea of a just 
and equitable society through upholding the principles 
enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights of 10 December 1948. It is in that spirit that we 
reiterate our commitment, and express our happiness, 
at being overwhelmingly re-elected by the Assembly in 
October to serve on the Human Rights Council for the 
next three years, from 2015.
Mr.  Laram  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like  at  the  outset  to  thank  Mr.  Baudelaire  Ndong 
Ella,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for  his 
participation  and  for  presenting  the  annual  reports 
(A/69/53) that represent the Council’s efforts to uphold, 
preserve and defend human rights. We wish him every 
success in his efforts to lead the Council.
We  greatly  value  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  We  firmly  believe  that,  eight  years  after 
its  establishment,  the  Council  has  an  important  and 
vital  role  to  play.  The  Council  is  the  cornerstone  for 
strengthening  human  rights  and  basic  freedoms  for 
all,  without  discrimination  and  in  a  fair  and  just 
manner. The State of Qatar attaches great importance 
to the promotion, respect and strengthening of human 
rights.  That  is  the  basis  of  our  national  policy.  It  is  a 
strategic  option  that  we  have  chosen  in  the  context 
of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  State  of  Qatar.  It 
was a key element in the Qatar National Vision 2030, 
which  includes  the  important  fields  of  education,  the 
environment, health, the empowerment of women and 
the  rights  of  children,  with  a  view  to  building  a  safe 
and  stable  society  based  on  the  principles  of  justice, 
equality and the rule of law.
The  State  of  Qatar  plays  an  effective  and 
constructive    role  in  strengthening  human  rights  at 
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  In 
that  context,  we  participated  actively  during  our 
membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council.  As  we 
approach our third term, we affirm our obligations in 
respect of and commitment to human rights. We look 
forward  to  continuing  to  support  and  cooperate  with 
the United Nations human rights mechanisms in every 
way possible to guarantee respect for human rights and 
basic freedoms throughout the world.
The  second  national  report  presented  to  the 
Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review was 
an important opportunity to introduce Qatar’s important 
policies in the area of the promotion and protection of 
human rights and the relevant progress achieved. Qatar 
has renewed its open invitation to all special procedures 
mandate-holders  within  the  framework  of  the  Human 
Rights Council.
The State of Qatar has also implemented many of 
the  recommendations  that  were  first  presented  in  the 
framework of the first interactive session in the context 
of  the  first  universal  periodic  review  report,  namely, 
the amendment of the criminal code and the adoption 
of a law on trafficking in persons for the protection of 
victims and the promotion of international cooperation. 
In  addition,  Qatar  has  established  a  national  human 
rights  committee  to  protect  victims  of  conflicts  in 
the  framework  of  the  implementation  of  international 
humanitarian law.
The  State  of  Qatar  has  strengthened  its  efforts  in 
the legislative and institutional framework to promote 
human  rights  awareness  and  basic  freedoms  for 
persons  with  disabilities.  We  have  launched  the  One 
Billion Strong global initiative, which seeks to provide 
adequate and decent living conditions for persons with 
disabilities. We have also given much consideration to 
the health and education sectors. We issued Law No. 6 
of 2013 on health and education, which seeks to provide 
sustainable  financial  resources  to  support  education 
and  medical  services.  We  also  provide  special  care 
for the elderly, as an essential segment of society, and 
do all that is necessary to enhance their status in our 
society. That is an important part of our Constitution, 
as we support the family, motherhood, children and the 
elderly.
We  are  concerned  about  the  situation  of  human 
rights  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  in 
other occupied Arab territories. I refer in particular to 
Human Rights Council resolution 25/29 on the illegality 
of  the  seizure  of  land  by  force  and  the  attempt  to 
dismember Palestinian land, including East Jerusalem, 
by  continuing  to  build  settlements.  The  resolution 
expresses  concern  with  regard  to  Israel’s  practices  in 
20/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
terms of its violations of the Palestinian people’s human 
rights, including through the excessive use of force and 
its  military  operations,  which  have  led  to  the  injury 
and  victimization  of  many  innocent  women,  children 
and peaceful demonstrators. The Council has indicated 
that  all  such  practices  should  end  immediately  and 
the  Palestinian  people’s  human  rights  should  be  fully 
respected.
The  Human  Rights  Council’s  response  to  the 
continuing  humanitarian  crisis  in  Syria  is  of  the 
utmost  importance,  particularly  in  the  light  of  the 
serious  deterioration  of  the  human  rights  situation 
and  the  killing  and  targeting  of  civilians,  which  are 
violations of international humanitarian law and of all  
principles. Human Rights Council resolution 27/16 has 
condemned the Syrian regime for not cooperating with 
the  independent  international  commission  of  inquiry 
on  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic.  It  has  also  condemned 
all  random  attacks,  including  those  involving  the  use 
of  explosive  barrels  in  residential  areas  and  against 
civilians  and  civil  institutions.  The  resolution  also 
affirmed the responsibility of the Syrian regime for the 
cases of forced disappearances and demanded that the 
Syrian regime assume its responsibility with regard to 
the  protection  of  Syrian  civilians.  In  the  light  of  the 
deteriorating humanitarian situation in Syria, we would 
like  to  reaffirm  the  importance  of  full  accountability 
and  that  the  international  community  should  take  all 
the necessary measures to protect the human rights of 
the brotherly Syrian people.
In  conclusion,  we  affirm  the  need  to  continue  to 
promote  and  strengthen  human  rights  and  to  pursue 
cooperation  with 
international  organizations  and 
relevant United Nations entities so that human rights are 
protected and upheld, in cooperation with the Human 
Rights Council and its special mechanisms and entities.
Mr.  Khan  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  providing  us  with  the  Council’s  reports  (A/69/53) 
on its twentieth, twenty-first and twenty-second special 
sessions,  as  well  as  its  twenty-fifth,  twenty-sixth 
and  twenty-seventh  sessions.  My  delegation  is  very 
appreciative of the role of the President of the Council 
and  attaches  high  importance  to  the  significant  work 
that he and the Council have been carrying out.
Indonesia  greatly  values  the  Council  as  a  key 
intergovernmental  body  in  the  work  of  strengthening 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  around 
the  globe.  For  almost  three  years  now,  Indonesia  has 
been  serving  as  a  member  of  the  Council,  working 
constructively  with  other  countries 
to  address 
humanrights violations and produce recommendations.
We  should  recall  that  the  General  Assembly 
decided to establish the Human Rights Council as part 
of  its  effort  to  tackle  the  political  manipulations  and 
double standards that were often practised in the name 
of promoting and protecting human rights. We firmly 
believe  that  the  Council  should  carry  out  its  noble 
task  of  improving  the  protection  of  all  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction, 
and in a fair and equitable manner, in accordance with 
the mandates set out in resolution 60/251, of 15 March 
2006.
Against  that  backdrop,  Indonesia  would  like  to 
highlight  the  following  crucial  points.  First,  as  of 
1  October,  the  Council  has  seen  a  record  number 
of  53  special  procedures  with  thematic  and  country 
mandates. While some may consider that trend necessary, 
my delegation would like to underline the need for the 
Council  to  avoid  duplication  and  politicization  and  to 
prioritize an equitable representation of each regional 
group in establishing special procedures. My delegation 
also wishes to reiterate how critical it is that the special 
procedures receive the necessary political and financial 
support  and  are  able  to  discharge  their  mandates 
in  a  coherent,  effective,  objective,  independent  and 
non-politicized manner.
Secondly,  in  addressing  specific  human  rights 
situations, it is important that the Council engage with 
the countries concerned in a spirit of genuine partnership 
and constructive dialogue. No country is truly immune 
to  human  rights  violations.  Every  situation  requires 
careful  observation  if  a  long-term  and  sustainable 
solution is to be found. We would also like to underline 
the  critical  role  of  the  universal  periodic  review 
(UPR)  as  a  peer  review  among  countries  on  an  equal 
footing, and an important mechanism for strengthening 
efforts  to  foster  the  values  of  democracy  and  human 
rights. We stress the importance of the UPR process in 
creating realistic and implementable recommendations 
for  addressing  specific  human  rights  situations.  As  a 
developing  country,  we  would  also  like  to  highlight 
the  need  to  provide  more  technical  assistance  in  the 
preparation of the report and in implementing the UPR 
recommendations.
Our third point is that the Council should respect 
and  be  sensitive  to  different  values,  norms  and 
traditions,  and  should  exercise  restraint  in  promoting 
14-63039
21/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
certain  values,  behaviours  and  practices  that  do  not 
enjoy international consensus or acceptance. Since we 
all see the Human Rights Council as the main United 
Nations mechanism for addressing global human rights 
concerns,  Indonesia  would  like  to  encourage  it  not  to 
engage in unclear or controversial subjects that tend to 
be  divisive  and  lacking  in  recognition  of  the  various 
values, norms, cultures and traditions of others.
For its part, Indonesia is always ready to strengthen 
its  engagement  with  human  rights  mechanisms, 
especially  in  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Just  a  few 
weeks  ago,  Indonesia  was  re-elected  to  the  Council. 
We are truly grateful for all the support we have been 
given. I would like once again to reiterate Indonesia’s 
commitment to continuing to work with others to make 
the  Council  more  effective  and  ensure  that  its  work 
benefits all States Members of the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  Indonesia  would  again  like  to 
thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
his updates and reports. It is our fervent hope that the 
Council’s deliberations will continue to help to support 
our efforts in the field of human rights and in achieving 
a tangible impact on the ground.
Mr. Ahsan (Bangladesh): I would like to begin by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  his  presentation  of  the  Council’s  annual  report 
(A/69/53).  We  greatly  appreciate  his  leadership  in 
taking the work of the Council forward.
The  Office  of 
In  the  short  period  of  time  since  its  inception  in 
2006, the Human Rights Council’s work has proliferated 
immensely.  Guided  by  the  principles  of  universality, 
impartiality,  objectivity  and  non-selectivity,  it  has 
covered considerable ground in assisting Member States 
in  meeting  their  obligations  regarding  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights. During this year it has 
adopted  a  total  of  105  resolutions  and  47  decisions, 
while also holding a huge number of panel discussions.
for 
Human  Rights  has  also  successfully  discharged  the 
responsibilities  entrusted  to  it  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  The  universal  periodic 
(UPR), 
the  Council’s  ubiquitous  peer-review  mechanism, 
has  proved  its  worth,  too.  With  universality  and 
non-selectivity  as  its  strengths,  the  mechanism  has 
made countries face scrutiny regardless of their region, 
size, influence or level of development. As a founding 
member of the Council, Bangladesh has been supportive 
of the UPR. We have already been through our second 
the  High  Commissioner 
review 
cycle of the review and have accepted as many as 164 
recommendations.
that 
We  also  believe 
the  system  of  special 
procedures  is  important  to  pursuing  the  effective 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  If  those 
mechanisms are to succeed, their credibility, objectivity 
and  impartiality  must  be  upheld.  We  should  also  be 
careful that efforts aimed at realizing human rights do 
not violate the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations — the principles of respect for State sovereignty 
and non-interference in countries’ internal affairs.
While  the  Council  is  engaging  in  new  areas  of 
concern, we are still struggling to adequately address 
some areas of long-standing gross violations of human 
rights. We remain concerned about the continuing denial 
of the rights of the Palestinian people in the occupied 
territories.  The  Council  must  make  more  serious  and 
sincere  efforts  to  address  such  gross  violations  of 
human rights.
Climate  change  is  the  greatest  environmental 
challenge  facing  the  world  today.  The  international 
community  has  a  moral  obligation  to  support  the 
populations  of  countries  that  are  victims  of  climate 
change. This is a global problem. From Alaska to the 
Pacific Islands, climate change affects a large majority 
of  countries  to  varying  degrees  and  in  different 
patterns. However, its impact is felt more acutely by the 
populations  of  developing  countries,  who  are  already 
in a vulnerable situation, mostly for economic reasons. 
We  are  therefore  particularly  happy  with  the  Human 
Rights Council’s adoption by consensus of a resolution 
on human rights and climate change. We look forward 
to the panel discussion on the subject to be held during 
the March session of the Council.
things, 
During  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  held  in  October  2013 
(see  A/68/PV.25  through  A/68/PV.28),  States  agreed, 
among  other 
to  effectively  promote  and 
protect  the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
of  all  migrants,  regardless  of  their  migration  status, 
to respect and promote the rights of migrants in their 
workplaces,  and 
labour-mobility 
programmes.  We  have  yet  to  witness  any  effort  or 
political  will  to  implement  those  commitments.  It  is 
alarming that the plight of migrants around the world, 
which  is  rooted  in  their  status  in  most  cases  and 
amplified  by  the  discrimination  and  xenophobia  that 
migrants  increasingly  face,  continues  unabated.  We 
are equally disturbed by the continued manifestation of 
to  cooperate  on 
22/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
racial  crimes,  intolerance,  Islamophobia  and  religious 
profiling. Such acts and all related forms of intolerance 
must continue to be forcefully combated, as prescribed 
in the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action.
The  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  cannot  be 
possible unless the challenges of development are met. 
That requires concerted national and international efforts 
to eliminate economic deprivation, hunger and disease 
in all parts of the world. Due to inherent socioeconomic, 
environmental and demographic situations, developing 
countries,  including  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs), face a number of impediments in their efforts 
to ensure the full enjoyment of human rights, including 
the right to development for all its citizens. Some key 
challenges  include  poverty  and  income  inequality, 
resource constraints, capacity deficits, the gap between 
national  priorities  and  donor  policies,  the  impact  of 
climate  change  and  gaps  in  legal  enforcement.  Those 
challenges can be overcome by seeking solutions from 
within countries — keeping in view the particularities 
of  each  situation  and  the  priorities  set  by  national 
Governments, based on national interest — and not by 
imposing  ideas,  policies  and  strategies  from  outside, 
which  may  undermine  national  priorities,  sovereignty 
and independence.
Technical  cooperation  that  is  in  line  with  the 
aforementioned  principles  and  premised  on 
its 
conception  as  a  right,  not  a  charity,  is  crucial  in  that 
regard.  It  should  recognize  the  essential  right  to 
development  and  be  supported  by  the  principles  of 
equality at all levels, non-discrimination, participation, 
transparency  and  accountability  for  all.  Technical 
cooperation  should  be  aimed  at  the  maintenance  of 
stable  and  sustained  economic  growth.  This  must  be 
supported  by  simultaneous  actions,  such  as  offering 
increased  concessional  assistance 
to  developing 
countries,  including  LDCs,  and  eliminating  trade 
barriers and resolving the debt crisis.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  thanking  Member 
States  for  electing  Bangladesh  as  a  member  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  term  2015-2017.  The 
Government of Bangladesh remains deeply committed 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  universal  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  at  the  national  and 
international levels. As a new member of the Council, 
we look forward to remaining constructively engaged 
with the work of the Council.
Mr.  Tesfay  (Eritrea):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
welcome  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and takes note of his briefing. Eritrea associates itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Mauritania  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States. 
I should like to take advantage of the presence of the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  express 
Eritrea’s  view  on  certain 
the 
Council’s activities.
issues  concerning 
First,  concerning  the  principles  and  procedures 
for handling human right issues, Eritrea believes, and 
as  it  is  strongly  stressed  by  the  African  Group,  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  and  other  regional 
groups, the universal periodic review (UPR) remains a 
valid  mechanism  for  enhancing  constructive  dialogue 
and cooperation among Member States. This has been 
and remains a novel approach in which every country, 
rich or poor, big or small, has its human rights record 
put  under  scrutiny.  Objectivity  and  impartiality  must 
be the guiding principles.
Article  2  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
clearly  stresses  that  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of States must also be a guiding principle of the 
Organization,  including  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
Human  rights  is  a  universal  concept.  As  clearly 
articulated by the African Group and NAM, selectivity, 
naming and shaming, and country-specific resolutions 
must  be  rejected.  It  is  because  those  principles  were 
violated  and  abused  by  certain  countries  for  political 
expediency  that  in  2006  the  Commission  on  Human 
Rights  was  dismantled  and  replaced  with  the  Human 
Rights Council.
We were sure that we were establishing a new body 
with  higher  standards  of  principles  and  procedures 
than the defunct Commission on Human Rights, which 
had  not  been  up  to  that  level.  Yet  today,  history  is 
repeating  itself.  The  Human  Rights  Council  is  once 
again becoming a forum that some countries are using 
to  advance  their  interests  and  geopolitical  agendas, 
including that of regime change. Naming and shaming 
declarations  and  country-specific 
resolutions  are 
becoming the norm rather than the exception. That has 
to stop.
The Human Rights Council should not allow itself 
to be used by any country, big or small, rich or poor. 
Eritrea  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  current  behaviour 
of some Member States in the Human Rights Council 
in the implementation and interpretation of the rules of 
procedure  of  the  Council.  This  is  a  serious  challenge 
that has to be addressed by the Human Rights Council 
in order to uphold its credibility and legitimacy. I hope 
14-63039
23/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
that  when  the  Council  President  returns  to  Geneva, 
he  will  ask  the  Council  to  verify  the  credibility  and 
reliability of the allegations and the accusers.
Secondly,  concerning 
the  disbursement  and 
rationalization  of  funding,  every  year  the  number  of 
country  mandate  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Human 
Rights  Council  grows.  The  proliferation  of  country 
mandates  ought  to  be  reviewed  as  a  way  of  limiting 
expenditures and rationalizing the work of the Human 
Rights Council. For example, the establishment of the 
post of Special Rapporteur and a commission of inquiry 
for  the  same  issue  and  the  same  country,  in  this  case 
Eritrea, is not only redundant, but also a waste of time 
and resources that cannot be justified and rationalized.
Given  the  fact  that  there  are  no  nations  or 
Governments that do not have human rights issues and 
problems, it is not possible to create country mandate 
holders for all States Members of the United Nations. 
The Fund allocated for such redundant activities could 
be utilized for enhancing other important activities in 
which the Human Rights Council is engaged, such as 
technical  assistance  and  capacity-building.  Given  the 
fact  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  facing  major 
financial  constraints  to  fully  implement  its  mandated 
activities, this is an area where unnecessary expenditure 
can be cut.
The Human Rights Council must avoid overlapping 
mandates  and  activities.  Before  asking  for  extra 
funding,  it  must  address  issues  of  redundancy  and 
duplication seriously. It must clearly articulate, justify 
and rationalize its expenditures before coming up with 
lump-sum amounts. The Fifth Committee, the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
and other concerned United Nations bodies must have 
a thorough discussion on whether the Council’s request 
is justifiable and cost-effective.
Thirdly,  on  the  modus  operandi,  or  rules  of 
engagement,  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Eritrea 
strongly believes that the Council must follow a clear 
procedure that will safeguard it from certain politically 
motivated resolutions and from being railroaded under 
the  pretext  of  human  rights  violations,  in  particular 
when this is done at the last minute while the concerned 
State  is  going  through  the  UPR  process.  The  Human 
Rights  Council,  which  is  mandated  by  the  General 
Assembly to make sure that all types of human rights are 
respected and protected, must implement the letter and 
spirit of the rule of law. It must provide an opportunity 
for the concerned and accused State to defend itself and 
explain the human rights situation in the country. The 
dictum  that  one  is  innocent  until  proven  guilty  must 
be  respected  by  all  Member  States,  as  well  as  by  the 
Council.  The  Council  must  constantly  be  reminded 
that, according to the Charter, it does not have the right 
or  the  mandate  to  intervene  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
any  Member  State.  The  political  independence  and 
sovereignty of every Member State must be respected.
The Council must base its decisions and resolutions 
on  concrete  information  and  evidence,  rather  than 
on  politically  motivated,  sweeping  statements  or 
allegations compiled by one or two individuals in the 
name of a special rapporteur or commission of inquiry. 
To depend on a report by one or two individuals is not 
only procedurally wrong; it is also a substantial travesty 
of justice.
The  members  of  the  Council  should  thoroughly 
interrogate  the  country  mandate-holders  to  ascertain 
the  facts.  The  Council  must  look  into  each  country’s 
specific situation and stage of development. Its analysis 
of  the  Eritrean  situation,  in  this  case,  is  not  only  off 
the mark; it also does not take into consideration that 
certain parts of Eritrea’s sovereign territory, including 
the town of Badme, are occupied. Unjust sanctions have 
been imposed on the people of Eritrea.
There are human rights issues that the Human Rights 
Council must deal with. Eritrea’s right to development 
must be respected. The Human Rights Council, as the 
body mandated to enhance and promote human rights, 
must be reminded that its decisions and resolutions can 
have  serious  financial  and  political  ramifications.  Its 
noble  mandate  should  not  be  compromised  under  any 
pretext or circumstance.
In conclusion, Eritrea is fully committed to human 
rights  values  and  principles.  To  cite  some  of  those, 
women’s  rights  are  fully  respected.  They  have  the 
right  to  own  property.  They  earn  equal  pay  for  equal 
work. Female genital mutilation has been criminalized. 
Under the motto “education for all”, education is free 
for all from kindergarten to the tertiary level. Eritrea 
has achieved Millennium Development Goals 4, 5 and 
6 and is on track to achieve Goals 2, 3 and 7. Eritrea 
is  the  most  peaceful  country  in  the  volatile  Horn  of 
Africa and the Red Sea region. It must be commended, 
not targeted. Once again, Eritrea’s right to development 
must be respected.
Mrs.  Natividad  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
thanks Mr. Baudelaire Ndong Ella for his report on the 
24/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
2014 sessions of the Human Rights Council (A/69/53), 
in  which  the  Philippines  was  privileged  to  take  part. 
In our participation as a member of the Human Rights 
Council,  the  Philippines  has  been  guided  by  the 
directive  of  resolution  60/251,  to  the  effect  that  the 
work  of  the  Council  should  be  based  on  universality, 
impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity, constructive 
international dialogue and cooperation.
It is in this light that we wish to continue to underline 
the  primacy  of  the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR) 
as  the  foremost  mechanism  for  reviewing  the  human 
rights records of Member States. By affording States a 
singular opportunity to engage in dialogue with other 
States  and  stakeholders,  including  civil  society,  the 
UPR ensures that best practices and recommendations 
are  exchanged,  processed  and  filtered  through  to 
the  domestic  level.  We  therefore  take  heart  that  the 
second cycle of the UPR has achieved not just 100 per 
cent  participation,  but  also  high-level  participation, 
illustrating the commitment of States to the process.
The  year  2014  saw  the  establishment  of  three 
new  mandates  in  the  special  procedures:  a  Special 
Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, a 
Special Rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral 
coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights 
and  an  Independent  Expert  on  capacity-building  and 
technical  cooperation  with  Côte  d’Ivoire  in  the  field 
of  human  rights.  We  laud  the  hard  work  and  passion 
of  our  special  procedures  mandate-holders.  Even  as 
our  delegation  recognizes  the  vital  role  of  the  special 
procedures, we continue to assert, as we have done in 
previous sessions, that the performance of the mandates 
must always be in accordance with resolution 60/251, 
which  recognizes  that  the  promotion  and  protection 
of  human  rights  should  be  based  on  the  principles 
of  cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue,  and  aimed  at 
strengthening the capacity of member States to comply 
with their human rights obligations.
In  the  review  of  States’  human  rights  records, 
mandate-holders  often  speak  of  accountability,  but 
they  must  also  show  responsibility.  They  ask  for 
openness,  but  they  must  also  provide  balance.  And 
most  importantly,  they  must  inspire  trust  among  all 
stakeholders,  for  the  effective  performance  of  the 
special procedures can be achieved only if there is trust 
on the part of the States and all stakeholders concerned, 
and such trust can exist only when States are assured 
that special procedures are faithful to and respectful of 
their mandates, as expressly defined by the resolutions 
creating them.
The  growing  number  of  special  procedures 
mandates,  commissions  of  inquiry  and  fact-finding 
missions,  together  with  the  multitude  of  resolutions 
adopted  this  year  by  the  Human  Rights  Council,  is 
illustrative  of  the  increasing  complexity  and  breadth 
of human rights issues in today’s world. Those are not 
stand-alone issues, but are interdependent, cross-cutting 
and part of what High Commissioner for Human Rights 
Prince  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al  Hussein  refers  to  as  a  complex 
web of violations of economic, social, cultural, civil and 
political rights requiring solutions that can come only 
from more emphatic and comprehensive protection of 
human rights.
We could not agree more. Indeed, we must closely 
examine  and  understand  the  hows  and  whys  of  these 
crises so that we can learn to prevent and address them. 
Our delegation believes that the integration of human 
rights  concerns  into  the  shaping  of  the  sustainable 
development goals is a step in that direction. Equally 
critical  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  Council’s  mandate  to 
promote  advisory  services,  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building,  in  consultation  with  and  with  the 
consent of States concerned.
On 8 November, the Philippines and the international 
community  marked  the  first-year  anniversary  of  the 
devastating  typhoon  Haiyan.  We  are  thankful  for  the 
continuing assistance provided to us in the rebuilding of 
Tacloban and the other areas destroyed by Haiyan. The 
typhoon  showed  all  of  us  the  necessary  link  between 
sustainable  development  and  human  rights,  and  we 
welcome  in  that  regard  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
discussions on the promotion and protection of human 
rights, including the development of a repertoire of best 
practices, in post-disaster situations.
As the Philippines concludes its membership of the 
Council  this  year,  we  congratulate  the  newly  elected 
members  of  the  Council  and  wish  them  strength  and 
fortitude  as  they  continue  the  Council’s  directive  of 
helping States build an enabling environment to better 
promote the human rights of their peoples.
Mr.  Mahmoud 
(Egypt):  Egypt  aligns 
itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Mauritania  on  behalf  of  Group  of  African  States.  At 
the outset, I wish to welcome Ambassador Baudelaire 
Ndong Ella, President of the Human Rights Council, to 
14-63039
25/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
this debate on the report of the Council (see (A/69/53), 
in accordance with resolution 65/281.
In that resolution, the General Assembly affirmed 
that the Council is a subsidiary organ of the Assembly, 
and  that  the  discussion  on  the  report  of  the  Council 
shall  take  place  in  the  Third  Committee,  where  the 
President of the Council will present an annual briefing 
on  the  report  of  the  Council  to  the  Committee,  and  a 
briefing on the activities of the Council to the General 
Assembly.  Although  the  resolution  on  the  review  of 
the  Council  consolidated  important  practices  and 
principles pertaining to the Council’s working methods 
and reaffirmed its subsidiary status, the adoption of the 
resolution  by  a  recorded  vote  undermined,  without  a 
doubt,  the  main  objective  of  the  Council,  which  is  to 
promote respect for all human rights.
The Human Rights Council has an important role to 
play in supporting the efforts of Member States, which 
have the primary responsibility for the protection of all 
human rights. The Council should work to ensure the 
promotion  and  realization  of  those  rights  and  provide 
greatly needed support to national efforts. In this field, 
while  maintaining  a  balanced  approach  to  avoid  the 
challenges  that  hindered  the  work  of  the  Commission 
on Human Rights, such as politicization, selectivity and 
double standards, the annual report of the Council on 
its regular and special sessions presented in documents 
A/69/53  reaffirm  that  the  Council  plays  an  important 
role  in  building  national  capacities,  monitoring  the 
human  rights  situation  in  the  world  and  promoting 
economic, social, cultural, civic and political rights on 
equal footing.
The  Council  has  also  played  an  important  role 
with  regard  to  the  protection  of  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  those  living  in  the  occupied 
Arab  territories,  and  strengthened  the  international 
community’s  efforts  to  combat  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerances and to promote all 
human rights through the universal periodic review, the 
complaint mechanisms, the Forum on Minority Issues 
and mandate holders. The latter should carry out their 
duties and work in accordance with the clear mandates 
given to them by the Council and with full respect for 
the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Special  Procedures  Mandate 
Holders of the Human Rights Council.
Despite the efforts of the members of the Council 
during  its  early  years  to  work  in  accordance  with 
the  principles  of  understanding,  cooperation  and 
transparency,  and  to  avoid  confrontation,  selectivity, 
and politicization in dealing with human rights issues, 
those efforts seem to be waning and will result in the 
Council  facing  similar  challenges  to  those  faced  by 
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  in  the  past.  We 
have a responsibility to avoid repeating past mistakes 
by  addressing  the  following  important  challenges: 
politicization  of  Council  resolutions 
that  do  not 
necessarily  conform  to  efforts  to  ensure  respect  for 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms; attempts 
to  use  the  Council  to  uphold  certain  controversial 
notions, such as sexual orientation and gender identity, 
in  the  absence  of  an  international  consensus  in  a  bid 
to  legitimize  them;  and  systematic  attempts  to  use 
the  Council  as  a  tool  to  legitimize  Security  Council 
interference  in  situations  of  human  rights  around  the 
world in a manner that undermines the effectiveness of 
the role of the Human Rights Council and the roles of 
the principal organs of the United Nations as set forth 
in the Charter.
Such  challenges  are,  inter  alia,  driving  us  away 
from cooperation and towards a path of confrontation. 
The international community has the responsibility to 
ensure that the Council carries out its responsibilities 
and  functions  within  a  transparent  and  cooperative 
framework,  avoid  turning  the  Council  into  a  political 
tool  to  enforce  the  trusteeship  of  the  few  on  human 
rights issues, or enforce controversial notions that have 
no legal foundations in international humanitarian and 
human rights law in complete disregard of the diversity 
of social, cultural, legal and religious values of Member 
States.
Egypt reaffirms its commitment to supporting the 
work of the Council to promote respect for all human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  by  supporting  the 
implementation of the recommendations of the universal 
periodic  review  by  all  States  without  distinction  in 
collaboration with non-governmental organizations and 
civil  society,  by  encouraging  interaction  of  all  States 
with  mandate-holders  who  should  fully  respect  their 
mandates and the Code of Conduct, and by establishing 
a  dialogue  with  the  Member  States  on  the  basis  of 
transparency  and  mutual  cooperation.  Furthermore, 
the  international  community  has  a  responsibility  to 
strengthen the role of the Council by ensuring the full 
cooperation of all Member States.
Ms.  Murillo  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
thank the President of the Human Rights Council for his 
briefing and welcome the report on the essential work 
performed by this body (A/69/53). Costa Rica is pleased 
26/28 
14-63039
17/11/2014 
A/69/PV.52
with the progressive consolidation of the Council, the 
fulfilment of its mandates and the strengthening of its 
working methods.
My country has had the honour of being a member of 
the Council for the period 2011-2014 and has contributed 
to  its  strengthening  by  actively  participating  in  the 
forging of purposeful partnerships with countries from 
different  regions,  fostering  dialogue  in  negotiations 
and helping to build agreements. Our participation has 
been based on our deep conviction that the vision set 
forth by General Assembly in 2006 when it created the 
Human Rights Council — to endow a body responsible 
for promoting universal respect for and protection of all 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons, 
without  distinction  of  any  kind  and  in  a  fair  and 
equitable  manner,  guided  by  impartiality,  objectivity, 
non-selectivity, dialogue and cooperation — should be 
realized. The Council was created to serve as a forum 
for dialogue on thematic issues on all human rights, to 
maintain a system of special procedures, expert advice 
and a complaint procedure, and to address situations in 
which human rights are violated, in particular through 
serious and systematic violations.
In  order  to  strengthen  Member  States’  capacities 
to fulfil their obligations with regard to human rights, 
based on the principles of cooperation and constructive 
international  dialogue,  we  note  with  satisfaction  the 
progress  seen  in  the  universal  periodic  review  (UPR) 
mechanism, which puts all States on an equal footing 
by analysing their situation in that area. The exercise 
enhances  dialogue,  the  sharing  of  good  practices  and 
can help improve human rights in all Member States, if 
used constructively.
Convinced  of  the  importance  of  the  UPR,  my 
country  has  contributed  to  its  ongoing  validity  by 
actively participating in more than 100 sessions and by 
making constructive and respectful recommendations. 
Furthermore,  in  May  we  presented  the  results  of  our 
second UPR, which we considered to be an opportunity 
for accountability and assess progress and challenges as 
a nation. The preparation of the UPR was done within 
the  framework  of  the  Inter-agency  Commission  for 
Monitoring and Implementation of International Human 
Rights  Obligations,  which  comprises  21  institutions 
of  the  executive  branch  of  our  national  Government, 
representatives  of  the  judiciary,  the  legislature,  the 
Supreme  Electoral  Tribunal  and  the  Office  of  the 
Ombudsperson, which was a step forward in terms of 
strengthening  inter-agency  coordination  and  dialogue 
with civil society.
Without undermining the importance of the UPR, 
as  stated,  the  Council  also  has  the  responsibility  to 
look into specific situations that, by their seriousness, 
require  a  particular,  country-specific  approach. 
Therefore, we actively participate in the negotiation of 
country resolutions and in special meetings convened 
in the context of special sessions.
During its membership of the Council, Costa Rica 
has  promoted  important  initiatives  for  human  rights. 
We  continue  our  traditional  work  in  human  rights 
education and, for the past three years, we have been 
working  in  conjunction  with  the  Platform  for  Human 
Rights  Education  and  Training,  in  order  to  promote 
continuity  with  the  Global  Programme  in  that  area. 
We  are  gradually  outlining  the  approach  of  the  third 
phase  of  the  Programme  for  2015-2019,  dedicated  to 
journalists  and  other  media  workers,  with  a  view  to 
approving  the  plan  of  action  during  the  session  last 
September.
We  have  also  been  taking  the  lead  on  other 
important  Council  resolutions,  such  as  those  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
context  of  peaceful  demonstrations,  on  which  we  are 
working with Switzerland and Turkey; on conscientious 
objection to military service, with Croatia and Poland; 
and  on  the  establishment  of  a  special  rapporteur  on 
human rights and the environment, with such countries 
as Switzerland, Slovenia, the Philippines and Maldives.
Similarly, Costa Rica has been intensely involved 
in several working groups and processes. We actively 
participate  in  the  review  process  of  the  work  and 
functioning  of  the  Council,  which  signalled  a  new 
stage  in  the  work  of  that  body.  We  have  also  shown 
leadership in and contributed to the consolidation of the 
complaint mechanism, occupying the chairmanship of 
the Working Group on Situations for two years, during 
which  we  introduced  group  decisions  by  consensus, 
held  periodic  information  sessions  on  the  functioning 
of  our  discussions,  and  institutionalized  an  annual 
exchange meeting with the Advisory Group’s Working 
Group on Communications.
Costa  Rica  also  assumed  the  chairmanship  of  the 
working group tasked with drafting a declaration on the 
right to peace. That process has continued to develop 
in  a  favourable  manner.  A  new  dynamic  of  trust  has 
evolved  that  has  strengthened  dialogue,  and  links  to 
14-63039
27/28
A/69/PV.52 
17/11/2014
academia have been established that have also yielded 
new  contributions.  We  are  working  on  reaching  a 
common understanding in order to finalize the process 
and the draft proposal for the declaration.
Our  country  is  a  good  example  of  the  way  in 
which the Council’s special procedures help to advance 
human  rights.  With  respect  to  the  past  triennium,  we 
should take special note of the cooperation we received 
from  the  former  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples,  James  Anaya.  Mr.  Anaya  made 
a  number  of  visits  and  supported  State  authorities 
and  the  indigenous  peoples  of  Costa  Rica  in  the 
consultative process regarding a hydroelectric dam in 
the south of our country. As a result, an open forum was 
established; work continues on the bases established in 
those talks. Moreover, in 2013 we received a visit from 
the  Independent  Expert  on  the  issue  of  human  rights 
obligations  relating  to  the  enjoyment  of  a  safe,  clean, 
healthy and sustainable environment, whose mandate, 
as  I  have  already  stated,  we  support.  Costa  Rica  also 
highly values the assistance of the Office of the High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, with whose support 
we developed our national policy for a society free of 
racism, racial discrimination and xenophobia.
Finally, we call on all Member States to demonstrate 
their commitment to the Council as a central organ of 
the  Organization  on  the  issue  of  human  rights  and  to 
safeguard its important work.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
28/28 
14-63039
