United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
10th plenary meeting
Thursday, 25 September 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Address by Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of 
the Republic of the Gambia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of the Gambia.
Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of the Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Al  Hadji  Yahya  Jammeh,  President  of  the 
Republic of the Gambia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Jammeh:  Thanks  be  to  the  almighty 
Allah  for  giving  me  another  opportunity  to  address 
this global body at a time when human civilization is 
teetering  on  the  brink  of  a  major  catastrophe.  Before 
going  further,  let  me  convey  our  warm  felicitations 
to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  While 
wishing you success, I would like to assure you of the 
support  and  cooperation  of  the  Gambia  during  your 
tenure as President of the Assembly. I would also like 
to commend your predecessor, Mr. John William Ashe, 
for  his  able  stewardship  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.
It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  injustice,  iniquities, 
exclusion  and  greed  all  contribute  to  the  creation  of 
international  tensions  that  can  lead  to  catastrophic 
consequences,  conflicts,  wars,  death  and  destruction. 
Today  we  witness  lamentable  inertia  on  the  part  of 
the  United  Nations,  as  powerful  Member  States  take 
undue advantage of weaker Members; unjust economic 
and financial sanctions are imposed on other Member 
States;  others  are  bullied  and  their  natural  resources 
looted;  or  wars  are  waged  against  still  others,  simply 
in the name of democracy, freedom and regime change. 
All of those actions are based on false pretences.
That  is  not  the  scenario  that  the  noble  and 
distinguished  gentlemen,  the  founders  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  Charter,  envisaged.  What  those  great 
founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  intended  over 
half  a  century  ago  was  a  world  body  committed  to 
promoting the principles and ideals of peace and security 
and  advancing  the  causes  of  justice  and  equality; 
freedom  for  all;  and  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
the territorial integrity of States, rich or poor, black or 
white, big or small; and respect for the social, spiritual, 
religious and cultural values of all peoples. Therefore, 
in order to uphold the founding principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  Member  States  must  avoid  the 
promotion  of  all  forms  of  aggression,  confrontation 
and dangerous tension by exercising maximal restraint 
in the pursuit of their individual or collective national 
interests at the expense of others. In fact, the pursuit of 
one’s interest at the expense of the legitimate interests 
and security of others is criminal.
Invariably, when major tensions erupt into conflicts 
or  wars,  the  world  economy  as  a  whole  suffers,  with 
major  disruptions  or  reversals  in  the  developing 
countries.  That  has  been  evident  in  the  wake  of  past 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54847 (E)
*1454847*
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
regional or international conflicts, when oil prices, for 
example, surged, with the developing countries bearing 
the brunt of the debilitating consequences. In short, the 
United  Nations  must  be  seen  not  as  a  prejudicial  but 
rather as an all-embracing global body that stands for 
the interests of not only the few and the powerful but all 
its Member States.
The  Gambia  acknowledges  with  satisfaction  the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development,  entitled  “The  future  we 
want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  and  the  resulting 
establishment of the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  associated  consultative 
forums,  including  the  African  regional  consultations 
on  the  sustainable  development  goals.  While  the 
Gambia appreciates the proposals of the Open Working 
Group  on  the  post-2015  development  framework,  it  is 
hoped that the goals and targets outlined thus far will 
reflect  an  integrated  and  transformative  agenda  that 
would ultimately build upon the gains made from the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  in  order  to  fully  address  the  many  difficult 
challenges that we face today.
It is in that connection that we welcome the choice 
of the theme for this session, namely, “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”. That theme is indeed pertinent and timely, as 
it gives fresh impetus to our ardent desire to identify 
a  set  of  global  priorities  to  steer  the  international 
development  agenda,  once  the  MDGs  expire  at  the 
end of 2015. However, in launching that new initiative 
for  transformative  change,  we  must  not  allow  novelty 
to  mask  any  shortcomings  of  the  MDGs  experiment. 
There is a need to take stock of the achievements and 
failures  of  those  Goals  and  indeed  to  renew  support 
to  those  developing  countries,  particularly  the  least 
developed, landlocked and island developing countries, 
that may still have difficulties in meeting their critical 
MDG targets before the end of 2015.
At  a  time  when  the  world  is  facing  multiple  and 
complex challenges, there is a need to pay attention to 
the commanding role that the United Nations should be 
playing in advancing international peace and security, 
justice and the fundamental rights and freedoms of all 
peoples.  The  attainment  of  the  post-2015  sustainable 
development  goals  will  be  elusive,  unless  the  United 
Nations begins to execute its core mandate in earnest 
and exercises its commanding role in dealing with the 
host of local and international crises that are disruptive 
to development. A few current issues stand out on which 
the United Nations has yet to be seen to be playing a 
leading role.
First,  there  is  Ebola,  a  deadly  haemorrhagic 
fever  that  has  claimed  more  than  2,000  lives  in  West 
Africa,  mostly  in  the  severely  affected  countries  of 
the  Republics  of  Guinea,  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia. 
The World Health Organization has warned that, if no 
major efforts are made immediately, more lives will be 
lost  and  the  economies  of  those  countries  will  come 
under  serious  strain.  Already,  the  World  Bank  and 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  have  projected  that, 
owing to disruptions in the labour force and productive 
sectors  of  the  economies  of  those  countries,  declines 
in  their  respective  economic  growths  could  range 
from 1.5 to 3.5 percentage points, if current conditions 
remain unchecked.
For  those  affected  countries,  all  development 
efforts  are  now  on  hold  as  they  grapple  with  that 
contagious  and  deadly  disease.  It  is  encouraging  that 
the  United  States  Government  has  committed,  rather 
belatedly,  some  funds  and  military  assets  to  curb  the 
spread  of  that  disease.  That  gesture  is  more  than  just 
humanitarian aid. It is also, as President Obama said, 
in  the  national  security  interest  of  the  United  States. 
That  is  true  because  in  a  globalized,  interconnected 
world, infectious diseases can easily spread to any part 
of the world. It is for that reason that the United Nations 
should take the lead in mobilizing international support 
to fight Ebola, which is an evident danger not only to 
West Africa but to the world at large. On that note, we 
want to thank the Russian Federation for being one of 
the  first  major  Powers  to  respond  to  the  outbreak  of 
deadly Ebola by providing scientific and medical teams 
to some of those countries as soon as the outbreak was 
announced.
Secondly,  for  some  time  now,  the  world  has  been 
witnessing  the  bloodiest  and  most  heinous  form  of 
terrorism,  unleashed  by  satanic  and  sadistic  human 
vermin disguised as Islamic militants, who are acting 
ostensibly  in  the  name  of  Islamic  purity.  In  reality, 
those sons of infamy and their shameless and deceitful 
claims of devotion to the peaceful and noble religion of 
Islam are, in fact, an insult not only to all true Muslims, 
but to our Prophet and humankind in general.
Before the emergence of the mujahideen in Iran and 
later in Afghanistan in the 1980s, which was a movement 
subsequently  associated  with  Islamic  terrorism  by 
the  Western  mainstream  media  in  total  disregard  for 
2/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
its  creation  and  sponsorship  by  the  Western  Powers 
to  fight  proxy  wars  against  the  Islamic  revolution  in 
Iran  and  the  Soviets  in  Afghanistan,  there  existed  no 
Islamic terrorism. Islam in its entire history has never 
been  associated  with  violence  or  terrorism,  as  those 
activities are haram, or forbidden, for a Muslim. Islam 
is a religion of peace and tolerance and has nothing to 
do  with  the  activities  of  those  anti-Islamic  bands  of 
dangerous  criminals,  who  spread  nothing  but  deep-
seated hatred for human life and whose sole intention is 
to desecrate and defame Islam.
Consequently, 
those  various 
treacherous  hate 
groups cannot be associated with Islam, as our Islamic 
religion  is  pure  and  unique  and  cannot  therefore  be 
classified into varying degrees such as moderate Islam, 
democratic  Islam,  extreme  Islam  or  violent  Islam. 
Simply  put,  Islam  is  a  pure  religion  that  encourages 
the  best  of  human  behaviour  and 
interpersonal 
relationships,  among  other  virtues,  as  prescribed 
by  Allah,  the  almighty  creator.  In  other  words,  the 
adherents  of  those  lunatic  fringe  groups  of  bandits 
and gangsters, such as Boko Haram, the Islamic State 
in  Syria  and  Al-Qaida,  are  dangerous  criminals  and 
enemies  of  human  civilization  and  development  and 
should  therefore  be  wiped  off  the  face  of  the  Earth, 
because we do not need them.
Thirdly,  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  remains 
highly  volatile,  and  the  United  Nations  has  been 
watching  the  cycle  of  violence  in  the  region  rather 
helplessly.  In  the  most  recent  conflict  between  the 
Palestinians  and  Israelis,  approximately  2,000  people 
from  Gaza,  mostly  women  and  children,  died  at  the 
hands of the Israeli army, and approximately 70 Israelis, 
all of them soldiers except for three children, lost their 
lives.  The  continuing  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements 
on Palestinian land, despite repeated calls for restraint 
by the international community, is unacceptable, as it 
undermines any prospects for a two-State solution. The 
United States Government has played a very strategic 
and  useful  mediating  role  in  the  past,  but  the  United 
Nations  must  now  take  up  its  commanding  role  in 
seeking a peaceful settlement that is just, durable and 
acceptable to all the Members of the United Nations.
Fourthly, as part of its core mandate in promoting 
global  peace  and  security  and  greater  understanding 
among peoples of different backgrounds and cultures, 
the United Nations must do more to advocate a culture 
of peace, tolerance and understanding, not only among 
the  world’s  great  religions  but  also  among  Member 
States themselves. That is important, as we continue to 
witness  a  growing  propagation  of  disinformation  and 
misrepresentation,  especially  by  the  Western  media, 
about Islam in general and the application of sharia law, 
particularly  in  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  Saudi 
Arabia  is  the  birthplace  of  Islam,  and  sharia  is  the 
legal system in Islam and the only divine Constitution 
for  not  only  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  but  all 
Islamic States. Therefore, the incessant criticisms and 
misrepresentations  of  the  application  of  sharia  law  in 
Saudi  Arabia  or  anywhere  else  are  disrespectful  and 
abhorrent. It is an insult to all true Muslims to describe 
sharia  law  as  barbaric.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  most 
barbaric laws are those that are not based on any divine 
teachings. Sharia is the legal system that the almighty 
Allah has prescribed for all Muslims, and we will apply 
it to the letter.
In the same vein, the General Assembly should be 
commended for the designation, two years ago, of World 
Interfaith  Harmony  Week.  It  urged  Member  States  to 
designate the first week of February each year as World 
Interfaith Harmony Week, when messages of goodwill 
and  tolerance  are  spread  through  mosques,  churches 
and  other  places  of  worship.  While  that  was  a  good 
beginning  for  promoting  peace  and  harmony  among 
religions  and  peoples  of  different  belief  systems,  the 
United Nations must do more to counter the continuing 
attacks  on  Islam,  in  particular  by  people  who  do  not 
even  believe  in  the  existence  of  a  supreme  creator 
called Allah. Those infidels have no moral high ground 
to describe any religion — because they do not believe 
in God, and religion belongs to God — much less say 
anything about a religion as pure, authentic and noble 
as Islam.
Finally,  the  United  Nations  must  play  its  central 
role  in  addressing  the  injustices  associated  with  the 
unilateral  or  bilateral  application  of  economic  and 
financial  sanctions  by  one  Member  State  against 
another as a coercive tool of foreign policy, because that 
contravenes the fundamental principles of international 
law, international humanitarian law and the principles 
and  norms  governing  peaceful  coexistence  among 
sovereign  States.  In  that  regard,  the  Gambia  calls  on 
the  United  States  Government  to  unconditionally  end 
the  long-standing  United  States  embargo  on  Cuba, 
which has brought about untold hardship for the Cuban 
people.  Is  it  not  ironic  that  the  Power  talking  today 
about  respecting  Ukrainian  sovereignty  and  freedom 
to choose their own way of life is the same Power that 
has  maintained  a  system  of  unjustifiable  collective 
14-54847
3/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
punishment  against  the  Cuban  people  for  almost  five 
decades,  thereby  devastating  their  economy,  simply 
because, just as the Ukrainians today, Cubans decades 
ago opted for a system of governance of their choice?
That  brings  me  to  the  subject  of  climate  change. 
Climate change and development are inextricably linked. 
The  impact  of  climate  change  is  felt  in  all  countries, 
particularly  developing  countries,  as  it  undermines 
their ability to achieve sustainable development. While 
Africa is not responsible for the pollution and the other 
factors causing climate change, it stands to suffer the 
most.  With  96  per  cent  of  Africa’s  agriculture  being 
dependent on rainfall and 50 per cent of the fisheries-
related jobs estimated to be lost by 2050, climate change 
poses dire consequences for livelihoods in Africa. The 
Gambia  firmly  believes  that  mitigating  the  adverse 
effects of climate change requires a timely and decisive 
global response. It is a challenge that should unite us, 
not  divide  us.  In  that  regard,  the  Gambia  joins  other 
countries affected by climate change and like-minded 
groups  in  urging  the  developed  countries  that  are 
parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change to fully implement their commitments 
under the Kyoto Protocol.
In 1974, the Assembly adopted the Declaration on 
the  Establishment  of  a  New  International  Economic 
Order  (resolution  3201  (S-VI)),  which  was  designed 
to  address  some  legitimate  concerns  of  developing 
countries,  such  as  improving  their  terms  of  trade 
and  other  issues  relating  to  the  promotion  of  a  more 
equitable  international  economic  system.  Many  of 
the political, economic and social issues that inspired 
the  new  international  economic  order  still  remain 
unresolved, four decades after that historic declaration. 
As  the  post-2015  agenda  attracts  our  attention  today, 
we must not relegate those old concerns of developing 
countries to the dustbin of history. In a nutshell, their 
old  concerns,  as  well  as  their  new  aspirations,  must 
no  longer  be  set  aside.  To  that  end,  the  foundation  of 
any transformative agenda should logically begin with 
genuine  reform  of  the  global  governance  institutions, 
particularly the United Nations system.
Given  the  current  membership  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  reform  of  that  important  organ  of  the 
world  body  is  long  overdue.  We  African  leaders  have 
for a very long time been calling attention to the need 
to restore the effectiveness and legitimacy of the United 
Nations  by  allocating  two  permanent  Seats  with  full 
veto  powers,  as  well  as  two  non-permanent  seats  on 
the  Security  Council  to  reflect  current  geopolitical 
realities.
If  the  demands  for  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council in the interest of equity and justice cannot be 
accommodated, then concrete action must be taken for 
the General Assembly to assume all the powers of the 
Security Council and its responsibilities, including the 
power to impose sanctions. Under such an arrangement, 
all decisions of the General Assembly would have to be 
voted for by all Members and endorsed by the majority 
of  its  membership,  thus  ensuring  a  more  democratic 
and transparent global body called the United Nations.
On a final note, I want to call the attention of the 
General Assembly and the Security Council to the very 
frequent and mysterious sinking and capsizing of boats 
carrying  mostly  black  African  migrants  looking  for 
greener  pastures  in  the  West,  only  to  end  up  in  body 
bags  on  European  shores.  Strangely  enough,  those 
countries,  which  pretend  to  love  Africans  so  much 
that  they  are  always  preaching  to  African  leaders 
about  good  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect 
for human life and rights, have been eerily quiet about 
the  very  dangerous,  racist  and  inhuman  behaviour  of 
deliberately  causing  boats  carrying  black  Africans  to 
sink,  selecting  only  a  few  lucky  ones  to  be  rescued 
and sent to concentration camps, called asylum-seeker 
camps. Those camps are as bad as Nazi concentration 
camps,  and  nobody,  no  country  or  human  rights 
institution in the West has ever raised the alarm to that 
sort of genocide in the twenty-first century.
If  earlier  Africans  who  received  the  European 
explorers  before  colonialism  had  treated  them  the 
same  way,  Africa  would  not  have  been  colonized  for 
400 years. The European explorers were nothing short 
of  people  seeking  greener  pastures  for  their  fellow 
Europeans,  as  Europe  had,  at  the  time,  turned  into 
brown pastures. After 400 years of colonial looting and 
misrule in Africa, Africa today is reduced from green 
to brown pastures, owing to overgrazing. Now African 
explorers are not only unwelcome, but are greeted with 
instant death on European soil. That is unacceptable.
The  United  Nations  must  therefore  conduct  a 
full  and  impartial  investigation  into  that  man-made 
catastrophe, namely, the sinking or capsizing of boats 
carrying young Africans to Europe. If those boats are 
able to cross the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean 
Sea, only to sink on European coasts, we must find out 
what  deadly  mysterious  force  exists  on  the  European 
Mediterranean coasts that causes boats carrying young 
4/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
Africans to disintegrate and sink upon arrival. Racism, 
greed and hatred can only breed hatred, violence and 
disastrous  confrontation  between  races.  We  African 
leaders should stand up together, I hope, to protect those 
young Africans from mass murder on European coasts. 
I hereby call on the United Nations to commission such 
an investigation as a matter of priority and urgency in 
order to avert a major racial confrontation. We have the 
right as Africans to defend our black people, wherever 
they are. As we welcomed all races to Africa, we will 
not  accept  that  Africans  should  be  treated  like  dogs, 
with  impunity.  That  is  unacceptable.  If  the  United 
Nations  fails  to take action,  we will take  action.  And 
the action we take will be determined by us.
In  the  Gambia  we  do  not  attack  people  because 
they  are  white  or  black,  or  because  of  their  religion. 
No foreigner in the Gambia would say, “I was attacked 
because  I  am  a  foreigner”.  If  a  foreigner  comes  into 
contact with the police, it is because he has committed 
an  offence  for  which  even  a  Gambian  would  be 
arrested. If we cannot tolerate each other, the world will 
never  see  peace,  because  nobody  can  stop  migration. 
The Almighty Allah created this world for us to move 
around, the same way Europeans moved around when 
Europe  was  bankrupt.  Europeans  came  to  Africa  for 
400 years. We never killed them. They overstayed, and 
some of us had to fight to get them out. Now they have 
overgrazed our land. We also want greener pastures, but 
Europeans  cannot  accept  us.  Let  them  send  Africans 
back, but do not kill them. Europeans have no right to 
kill them.
Out  of  the  hundreds  of  European  explorers  who 
came to the Gambia in those days, only one European 
died  on  the  River  Gambia  over  a  span  of  400  years. 
Today,  over  a  span  of  five  years,  more  than  500 
Gambians  have  lost  their  lives  on  European  coasts. 
That is unacceptable. Enough is enough, and the United 
Nations must intervene, and intervene quickly, or else 
we will all live to regret our failure to take appropriate 
action at the right time.
Geopolitical  realities  have  changed.  Let  the  West 
accept  that,  and  with  us  endeavour  to  change  along 
with  those  realities,  as  we  move  together  towards 
the  peaceful,  brighter  future  we  want.  The  so-called 
military  super-Powers  must  know  that  humankind 
would be sent back to a pre-Stone Age should they be 
reckless enough to unleash World War III.
We cannot have our cake, eat it as we please, and 
at the same time dictate to others how, when and where 
they  should  eat  theirs.  In  the  twenty-first  century, 
humankind has a need only for super-Powers of peace 
and  development,  not  for  mediaeval  European-style 
warmongers.  Why  can  we  not  accept  the  diversity  of 
the human race and its attendant diversity in cultures, 
religions and ways of life as each of its diverse groups 
deems fit?
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Gambia for the statement he has just made.
Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of the Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, President 
of the Republic of Poland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of 
the Republic of Poland, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Komorowski  (spoke  in  Polish;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  first  like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.
In  the  opening  sentences  of  our  Charter,  we  read 
that the United Nations was set up to save succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  to  reaffirm 
faith  in  fundamental  human  rights  and  in  the  equal 
rights of nations large and small. In the year marking 
the  100th  anniversary  of  the  start  of  the  First  World 
War  and  the  seventy-fifth  of  the  start  of  the  Second 
World War, those words hold a particular resonance for 
us — for Poles, Europeans and every society affected 
by  those  tragedies.  Both  wars  were  waged  partly  on 
Polish territory; the second began with Nazi Germany’s 
aggression in collaboration with the Soviet Union. Our 
past compels us to reflect on the Charter’s words and 
those events of twentieth-century history, which form 
the  backdrop  to  our  decision-making  at  the  national 
14-54847
5/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
level, and similarly bind together the entire international 
community gathered here at the United Nations.
existence, the United Nations has had a track record of 
amazing achievements, but also many failures.
One result of the First World War was to foster the 
dream of a world without war. That belief and general 
desire  bore  fruit  in  the  League  of  Nations,  the  first 
collective  security  system  in  history.  It  included  all 
the factors needed to make a positive mark on history 
and  to  maintain  peace  and  security.  It  functioned  on 
a  foundation  of  important  rules  that  prohibited  war 
and encouraged the peaceful settlement of disputes. It 
had  shared  bodies,  disarmament  conferences  and  an 
international judiciary.
Despite  all  those  institutions,  however,  we  were 
unable  to  make  a  world  without  wars.  The  League 
eventually  became  an  easy  target,  if  not  an  object  of 
ridicule. Yet it was not the League itself that failed. It 
was failed by its members, and chiefly by the Powers 
that had been entrusted with special responsibility for 
implementing its principal task. They failed their test in 
the face of the expansion of totalitarian regimes on both 
the left and the right. The emergence of communism, 
national  socialism  and  many  militaristic  dictatorships 
was in part due to the First World War. Those systems 
fed on conflict, because ideological war and war against 
other peoples — against other men — were part of their 
identity.
Those  threats  could  have  been  resisted  in  time, 
but  the  democratic  world  failed,  choosing  a  short-
sighted  policy  of  appeasement  and  the  satisfaction  of 
dictatorships’ appetites at the expense of weaker States. 
The price paid for that negligence was the Second World 
War,  and  the  whole  of  humankind  had  to  pay  a  price 
that  would  once  have  been  unimaginable.  It  is  from 
the  horrible  experience  of  that  war,  of  the  Holocaust, 
that  the  legal  notion  of  genocide  stems.  Its  originator 
and  the  author  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention 
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide was a Polish 
lawyer, Raphael Lemkin, who understood the criminal 
nature of both kinds of totalitarianism even before the 
war.
After  the  hecatombs  of  the  war,  the  international 
community  decided  once  again  to  build  a  system  of 
collective security. I am glad that next year we will be 
celebrating the seventieth anniversary of the foundation 
of  the  United  Nations.  There  are  very  few  now  who 
remember  the  world  without  our  Organization,  and 
it  would  be  difficult  to  imagine  the  world  without 
its  activity.  During  the  nearly  seven  decades  of  its 
the  situation 
Today,  however, 
is  especially 
worrying,  as  symptoms  of  the  problems  that  once 
brought down the League of Nations are reappearing. 
We are witnessing a rebirth of the super-Power, a return 
to  the  thinking  that  divided  the  world  into  categories 
of geopolitical zones of influence and that has already 
led  the  international  community  into  a  morass  of 
hatred, confrontation and conflict. The United Nations 
should remain vigilant in the face of a return to such 
attitudes—  it  should  tolerate  no  departure  from  the 
principles  of  security  and  international  relations  laid 
down in the Charter. Tolerance of such attitudes always 
ends badly and not infrequently leads to catastrophe.
We  cannot  overemphasize  that  the  occupation 
of  Crimea  and  the  aggression  in  Ukraine  violate 
the  standards  of  international  law  and  trample  on 
the  fundamental  values  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
ideological  background  of  the  conflict  is  a  return  to 
the  rhetoric  of  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century, 
a return to the logic of zones of influence, of might is 
right,  and  of  ruthless  imperial  domination  of  weaker 
neighbours, which are apparently obliged to be obedient 
satellites of a Power redesigning the foundations of the 
civilized international order.
The  Security  Council, 
the  organ  responsible 
for  peace,  proved  to  be  ineffective  when  faced  with 
conflicts  in  Ukraine  and  other  regions  of  the  world, 
partly due to its rules of operation. We are threatened 
by a further descent into powerlessness if such rules are 
not amended. It is salutary that the General Assembly 
rose  to  the  challenge  when,  in  resolution  68/262,  of 
27 March 2014, it took the side of the weaker party that 
was being targeted in an act of imperial aggression.
I  feel  all  the  more  sad  and  concerned  uttering 
the  foregoing  words,  since  we  are  celebrating  the 
joyful  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  abolishment 
of  communism  and  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  bloc 
in  Poland,  which  is  also  being  celebrated  in  other 
countries  of  the  region.  That  “spring  of  nations”,  the 
second  in  the  history  of  Europe,  brought  freedom  to 
the nations of Central and Eastern Europe and respect 
for human rights and good democratic governance. At 
the time, changes for the better took place throughout 
Europe, and even worldwide. The Iron Curtain fell and 
so did the bipolar division of the world. The Cold War 
confrontation and its accompanying threats of nuclear 
conflict became things of the past.
6/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
That  historical  change  began  in  Poland  with  the 
establishment  of  the  10  million-strong  Solidarity 
movement,  a  peaceful  opposition  movement  against 
totalitarian  oppression  and  the  violation  of  nations’ 
rights. The victorious parliamentary elections of 4 June 
brought  about  the  formation,  on  12  September  1989, 
of the first non-Communist Government in our part of 
Europe since the Second World War, the Government of 
Tadeusz Mazowiecki.
Just  two  weeks  later,  on  25  September,  precisely 
25 years ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in that 
new  Government,  Professor  Krzysztof  Skubiszewski, 
addressed  the  Assembly  from  this  very  rostrum  (see 
A/44/PV.4) and proclaimed that the new Poland would 
not respect the logic of zones of influence. He further 
revealed  that  we  would  respect  existing  treaties  and 
obligations,  as  well  as  the  security  interests  of  other 
States, and none of that would result in any limitations 
with  respect  to  choosing  or  changing  the  system  of 
polity.
That  new  logic  of  international  relations  has 
been  most  beneficial  for  Europe,  where  a  great  wave 
of  unification  has  been  set  in  motion  thanks  to  the 
strengthening of the mechanisms of integration of the 
European  Community  and  its  expansion  to  include 
many  new  States.  In  our  region,  the  European  Union 
is  a  synonym  for  peace.  It  was  established  so  that 
there  would  be  no  more  wars  on  a  continent  that  had 
previously  been  notorious  for  them.  And  indeed,  the 
European  Union  has  become  a  significant  force  for 
peace  in  Europe  and  far  beyond  its  borders,  to  which 
Poland has contributed in a highly active way.
We had the right to hope that the benefits of the end 
of divisions in Europe and of the logic of imperial zones 
of influence would be shared by a growing number of 
States and nations — and not only in Europe — and that 
they would be able to decide their fate democratically 
and build their lives in peace and prosperity, free from 
external  domination.  We  have  hoped  and  continue  to 
hope  for  a  democratic  modernization  of  Russia.  But 
what  happened  six  months  ago  in  Eastern  Europe 
dealt  a  blow  to  that  hope  and  threatened  security 
on  our  European  continent.  In  our  part  of  Europe, 
people  are  again  asking  themselves  whether  war  as  a 
method  of  obtaining  a  political  goal  will  also  be  the 
long-term  European  reality.  We  cannot  acquiesce  to 
the brutalization of international life anywhere in the 
world — far less so in Europe, where the wounds of two 
World Wars are still healing.
Yet wars and conflicts are also continuing in other 
parts of our globe and are creating countless victims, 
suffering and destruction. We have all been surprised 
by  the  rapid  development  of  the  so-called  Islamic 
State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL).  The  brutality  of 
the  actions  of  its  fighters,  who  are  murdering  and 
persecuting people of every faith, including those who 
profess Islam, must inspire terror and trigger a response 
from the international community. ISIL’s barbarism is a 
challenge for all of humankind, irrespective of religion, 
ethnic  origin  or  political  viewpoint.  We,  the  States 
faithful to the United Nations Charter, cannot shirk our 
responsibility for providing security. We are responsible 
for  protecting  those  threatened  by  cruel  violence.  Yet 
everything must be done to ensure that the actions we 
take do not contravene the United Nations Charter.
We  express  our  concern  and  sympathy  for  the 
civilian victims of the conflicts and tragedies in Syria, 
Libya, Israel, the Gaza Strip and many African States. 
All those conflicts, and to an even greater degree the 
civil wars in some African countries, are accompanied 
by  humanitarian  catastrophes.  The  United  Nations, 
and  especially  the  super-Powers  that  can  influence 
the participating parties, should do everything to stop 
them.
Nobody  could  ever  take  the  place  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  agencies  in  providing  aid  to  refugees 
and  other  victims  of  humanitarian  tragedies.  On 
behalf  of  Poland,  I  hereby  express  appreciation  for 
them. and recognition for the thousands of courageous 
members  of  humanitarian  organizations,  United 
Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations 
who, amid all the dangers and frequently at the cost of 
their  own  lives,  hurry  to  the  aid  of  those  who  suffer 
persecution. They help those whose security and health 
is  threatened  —  those  left  alone,  without  a  roof  over 
their  heads,  who  are  far  away  from  homes  to  which, 
due to destruction, many will never be able to return. 
An ever-increasing number of people are experiencing 
suffering  and  cruelty  linked  to  military  conflicts. 
That horrifying trend must be stopped by our common 
efforts.
The fact that, in so many places, we are witnessing 
conflicts  that  entail  human  tragedy  and  the  deaths 
of  thousands  of  people  is  due,  as  a  general  rule,  to  a 
failure  to  observe  fundamental  human  rights.  Entire 
communities  and  nations  are  denied  influence  over 
political  decisions.  Power  without  control  is,  in  most 
cases,  corrupt  and  self-loving,  incapable  of  lifting 
14-54847
7/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
countries  out  of  underdevelopment  and  poverty.  That 
is  the  background  to  the  conflicts  and  rebellions  in 
Ukraine, Iraq, Libya and many other places in the world. 
That  is  why  we  must  increase  our  efforts  to  help  by 
offering development assistance to bring about social, 
economic and political transformation. Otherwise, the 
only alternative to dictatorship will be chaos.
Poland  is  especially  attached  to  the  role  of 
democracy  in  the  life  of  nations,  their  development 
and international activity. We know how much we lost 
because of the absence of democracy under communism, 
and we know how much we gained when we returned to 
democracy as a means of achieving our civic aspirations 
and  an  expression  of  our  national  sovereignty.  It  was 
for that purpose that a broad international initiative by 
the Community of Democracies was born in Warsaw in 
2000. That is precisely why my country established the 
international Lech Wałęsa Solidarity Award for activity 
in support of democracy and fundamental freedoms.
Poland 
that 
steadfastly  believes 
sustainable 
development cannot be achieved without the rule of law 
and  respect  for  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  for 
all. We will strive to attain the appropriate inclusion of 
those questions in the new United Nations development 
agenda.  Through  our  experiences  over  the  past  few 
decades in our history, we have learned the importance 
of  solidarity,  responsibility  and  involvement  —  the 
triad of principles in the United Nations system we are 
faithful to.
We  fully  acknowledge  the  involvement  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  improvement  of  the  social  and 
economic situation in those regions of the world where 
conditions  are  the  most  difficult.  Poland  actively 
participates in the definition of the priorities and means 
of implementation of the new development agenda that 
will  replace  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  of 
2000, and we will purposefully participate in making 
it a reality. The new development agenda should fully 
and  coherently  integrate  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental dimensions of sustainable development, 
while  at  the  same  time  focusing  on  the  reduction  of 
poverty and protection of the natural environment.
Reaching  an  international  understanding  on  that 
matter is a task that is as ambitious as it is difficult — yet 
it is necessary and feasible. The output of the previous 
Assembly  session,  worked  on  by  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  under 
the  highly  efficient  co-chairmanship  of  Kenya  and 
Hungary,  defines  the  course  of  further  discussion  on 
the matter. Poland will continue its active involvement 
in a dialogue that should bring about the development of 
a new, ambitious and universal post-2015 development 
agenda.
It  is  vitally  important  to  halt  any  further  global 
climate  change  caused  by  the  development  of  human 
civilization and to adjust to the changes that are already 
irreversible.  Here  lurk  existential  issues  pertaining 
to  security,  the  problems  of  economic  development, 
the  maintenance  of  biological  diversity  in  the  Earth’s 
ecosystem  and  quality  of  life.  In  its  capacity  as  host 
of the United Nations Climate Change Conference held 
in Warsaw in November 2013, and as we still hold the 
presidency of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
Poland  remains  committed  to  achieving  a  successful 
conclusion  to  the  negotiations.  We  believe  that  it  is 
possible  to  achieve  an  understanding  in  a  manner 
that  is  fair  to  countries  at  various  levels  of  economic 
development.  Agreement  is  possible,  and  I  hope  such 
an understanding will be arrived at in the near future. 
I would like to reiterate that, despite the hardships and 
costs of economic transformation, Poland has decreased 
its greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 30 per 
cent since 1988  — that is, it has greatly exceeded the 
reduction obligations stipulated in the Kyoto Protocol.
Poland  is  deeply  involved  in  various  fields  of 
activity  covered  by  this  Organization,  ranging  from 
human  rights  to  disarmament.  That  is  why  we  know 
perfectly  well  that  nothing  can  replace  the  United 
Nations  system,  which  is  continuously  improvable. 
Poland  is  currently  assuming  an  increasing  measure 
of  responsibility  for  cooperation  in  development, 
humanitarian  aid  and  climate  protection.  We  are 
ready  to  share  our  experience  and  our  ideas  as  a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 
period 2018-2019. We intend to support a reform of that 
body that will increase its representative character and, 
in parallel, reinforce its efficiency. The reform should 
primarily concern the Council’s mandate in situations 
involving the principle of the responsibility to protect, 
which  was  approved  by  our  community  in  2005.  The 
idea must be to develop a mechanism that will provide 
the Council with the capacity to act in such situations, 
while at the same time making it impossible to use the 
mandate  of  the  Council  for  purposes  other  than  the 
discharge of that responsibility.
8/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
I  have  raised  that  idea  from  this  rostrum  twice 
already. It should perhaps be combined with a broader 
reform of the Council, the outlines of which were given 
shape  before  the  historic  summit  held  in  2005.  The 
situation is unchanged from nearly 70 years ago — we 
want to save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of war and reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights 
and the rights of nations, large and small.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Poland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Latvia.
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Latvia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Bērziņš:  As  we  enter  a  crucial  session 
of the General Assembly, we will define our post-2015 
direction. Our way ahead must be based on the triangle 
of  security,  development  and  human  rights.  If  one  of 
those elements is not present, the other two will fail.
This year, we commemorated the grim anniversaries 
of the First and Second World Wars. Both wars began 
in  Europe,  but  quickly  spread  throughout  the  world, 
destroying the lives of countless millions. The League 
of  Nations  and  the  United  Nations  were  built  on  the 
ashes of those wars.
Today  again,  global  security  and  peace  are 
challenged  by  forces  willing  to  rewrite  the  history 
and rules of the international order. The aggression of 
Russia against Ukraine has defied the basic principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  uprooting  the  very  foundation 
of  the  international  system.  It  has  grabbed  part  of  a 
sovereign  European  country,  using  previously  unseen 
tactics  of  warfare  and  immense  propaganda  against 
its  neighbour.  It  enabled  the  tragic  shooting  down  of 
a  civilian  airplane.  It  has  shown  that  agreements  and 
commitments  do  not  matter,  and  it  wantonly  ignores 
and  manipulates  international  opinion.  Those  actions 
cannot be qualified otherwise than as a threat to global 
peace  and  security.  The  world,  including  the  General 
Assembly, has supported Ukraine’s territorial integrity. 
The  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea  and  Sebastopol  by 
Russia has been condemned and will not be recognized 
by the international community.
Russia has a vital role to play in security and stability 
in Europe and should be part of the solution — not part 
of the problem. Latvia hopes that the ceasefire agreed 
to on 5 September will be implemented in a sustainable 
manner. Latvia therefore calls on Russia to immediately 
withdraw its armed forces from Ukrainian territory and 
stop sending weapons and mercenaries to the terrorist 
groups. We call upon Russia to return to respecting its 
international commitments and upholding international 
law.
the  decay  of 
Seventy-five  years  ago, 
the 
international  system  proved  fatal  to  the  Baltic  States. 
Two  totalitarian  regimes  —  one  under  Hitler  and  the 
other under Stalin — divided Europe, and we lost our 
freedom for 50 long years. Twenty-five years ago, more 
than 2 million people joined hands and formed a human 
chain across Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The Baltic 
way clearly illustrated the people’s demand for freedom 
and  restoration  of  their  statehood.  The  Baltic  people 
made their choice. The Ukrainian people have the same 
right to choose their own democratic path, human rights 
and fundamental freedoms.
Latvia  supports  the  complementarity  of  efforts 
among international organizations at both the global and 
regional levels to use all instruments at their disposal to 
prevent the emergence of a frozen conflict in the eastern 
region  of  Ukraine;  to  help  and  support  Ukraine;  to 
uphold agreements and commitments and demand their 
fulfilment by all parties, including Russia; to maintain 
unity and reject attempts to divide Ukraine by reviving 
spheres of influence and establishing hidden support to 
terrorists as part of the new norms of Europe.
There  is  no  alternative  to  an  international  order 
based  on  the  rule  of  law,  democracy  and  respect 
for  human  rights  and  providing  the  foundation  for 
long-term  peace  and  security.  The  resolution  of  the 
protracted  conflicts  in  Transnistria,  Abkhazia,  South 
Ossetia and Nagorno Karabakh should remain high on 
the international agenda.
14-54847
9/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
In  addition,  the  security  situation  in  the  wider 
Middle  East  is  very  fragile.  A  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict is paramount in order to establish 
lasting stability in the region. Following the escalation of 
violence in recent months, the international community, 
including Latvia, has helped to address the emergency 
humanitarian  needs  of  the  people  of  Gaza.  We  hope 
that  the  current  ceasefire  will  be  fully  respected  by 
both sides. However, only an agreement on a two-State 
solution,  achieved  through  direct  negotiations,  will 
accomplish those goals.
We  welcome  the  elimination  of  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons  and  related  materials.  While  easing  the 
continuing human suffering of Syrians is the immediate 
goal,  the  international  community  must  continue 
political  efforts  to  find  a  solution  to  that  horrific 
conflict. Those responsible for war crimes and crimes 
against humanity in Syria must be held accountable by 
the International Criminal Court.
The  limited  ability  of  the  Security  Council  to 
address  the  urgent  situations  in  Syria  and  Ukraine  in 
a timely manner underlines the need to move forward 
with  reform  of  the  Council.  Latvia  supports  the 
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  categories 
of membership. At the same time, the French initiative, 
aimed at restricting the use of the veto, merits our joint 
attention.
The  completion  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  mission  in  Afghanistan  this  year 
will  be  an  important  step  towards  assumption  by  the 
people  of  full  responsibility  for  peace  and  stability 
in  the  country.  Despite  all  the  challenges,  the  legacy 
of  the  mission  is  clear.  Peace  and  security  have  been 
strengthened,  including  greater  respect  for  human 
rights and greater opportunities for the Afghan people 
than ever before.
The  recent  presidential  elections  clearly  showed 
the will of the Afghan people to live in a peaceful and 
democratic  society.  The  people  of  Afghanistan  will 
not  be  abandoned  after  2014.  International  support 
to  Afghanistan,  including  security  protection,  will 
be  continued.  I  am  convinced  that  cooperation  and 
confidence-building  between  Afghanistan  and 
its 
neighbours,  including  in  Central  Asia,  will  be  key  to 
long-term security solutions in the region.
The growing negative impact of violent extremist 
ideologies  in  Syria,  Iraq  and  other  countries  is 
alarming. Militant fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Sham (ISIS) have exploited instability in those 
countries and now pose a threat to ethnic and religious 
communities. In that context, Latvia joined the United 
States  in  coordinated  efforts  by  the  international 
community to counter ISIS. We strongly welcome the 
adoption of Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) on 
foreign  fighters.  Latvia  has  already  begun  to  prepare 
measures to prevent the recruitment of and support to 
foreign fighters.
Latvia is concerned about the safety of journalists 
during  political  unrest  and  conflict.  All  imprisoned 
journalists  must  be  released.  Freedom  of  the  media 
and  free  access  to  information,  including  online,  are 
essential components of any democracy.
Armed  conflicts  in  Africa  have  an  impact  upon 
stability and the sustainable development of the people. 
Latvia  takes  part  in  peace  and  security  operations 
in  Mali  and  the  Central  African  Republic  in  order  to 
contribute  to  conflict  settlement  and  to  improve  the 
security  situation  in  those  regions.  Latvia  is  ready  to 
commit  itself  to  strengthening  United  Nations  global 
peacekeeping.
Latvia  welcomes  the  ongoing  dialogue  between 
the E3+3 countries and Iran, which aims to negotiate a 
comprehensive agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme. 
The  parties  involved,  in  particular  Iran,  must  make 
every  effort  to  use  the  extended  time  frame  to  find  a 
solution. We must work towards revitalizing the global 
disarmament and non-proliferation agenda. The success 
of  the  2015  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
depends on re-establishing trust and a common purpose 
among  the  States  parties.  Latvia  was  one  of  the  first 
States to sign and to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty. We 
urge all United Nations Members to do the same.
Peace and security are both enablers of sustainable 
development and objectives in their own right. Without 
peaceful  societies,  we  cannot  achieve  sustainable 
development. Each country has its own responsibility 
for  achieving  that  goal.  Our  societies  need  honest 
and  accountable  Governments  that  protect  them  from 
violence and crime and ensure fundamental freedoms 
and sustainable economic growth.
Fourteen  years  ago,  we,  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations,  made  a  historic  commitment  to 
eradicating extreme poverty and to improving the health 
and welfare of the world’s people within 15 years. The 
new  development  agenda  should  go  further.  We  must 
10/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
address global challenges, such as conflicts, terrorism, 
inequalities,  the  absence  of  the  rule  of  law,  climate 
change and natural disasters. The social, economic and 
environmental  dimensions  of  sustainability  should  be 
addressed in a balanced way.
Ms. Gunnarsdóttir (Iceland), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  personal 
engagement  in  bringing  together  representatives  of 
Governments,  business,  industry,  finance  and  civil 
society  to  discuss  climate  change  this  week.  Latvia 
supports  the  initiatives  of  the  Secretary-General.  The 
post-2015  agenda  must  be  consistent  with  all  human 
rights and be underpinned by the rule of law. It should 
address  inequalities  and  discrimination,  including 
by  means  of  the  advancement  of  information  and 
communications  technology.  Those  are  key  enablers 
for  all  spheres  of  development.  Gender  equality  is 
essential to shaping respectful and equal relationships 
in  society.  Those  values  are  important  for  Latvia.  As 
an aspiring member of the Human Rights Council for 
the term 2015-2017, we will continue to promote such 
values globally. Last but not least, the post-2015 agenda 
should  be  built  on  strong  accountability  mechanisms 
and  a  strengthened  global  partnership.  That  requires 
the  active  engagement  of  Governments,  civil  society, 
the private sector and the United Nation system.
In  the  first  half  of  2015,  Latvia  will  assume  the 
presidency  of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union. 
Europe  needs  the  world  as  much  as  the  world  needs 
Europe. That is why the Latvian presidency will focus 
on  strengthening  the  European  Union’s  involvement 
globally.  We  will  actively  work  to  promote  Europe’s 
cooperation with its neighbours and with the countries 
of  Central  Asia.  I  affirm  my  country’s  commitment 
to  actively  engaging  in  efforts  to  shape  our  common 
future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Latvia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of 
the Gabonese Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Gabonese Republic.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba, 
President of the Gabonese Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Bongo  Ondimba  (spoke  in  French): 
I  would  first  of  all  like  to  extend  my  sincere 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. I assure him of the full support of my country. 
The  remarkable  work  of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  John 
William Ashe, during the sixty-eighth session deserves 
our  recognition.  The  same  goes  for  the  commendable 
and tireless efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
as head of the Organization.
At the previous session, we deplored and condemned 
the cowardly terrorist attacks on the shopping centre in 
Nairobi. Now, inevitably, the current session takes place 
in  an  equally  worrisome  context,  marked  by  serious 
threats to international peace and security. First, there 
is  the  advance  of  the  elusive  Boko  Haram  terrorist 
network,  which  is  extending  its  area  of  influence  to 
the  border  of  the  neighbouring  countries  of  Gabon, 
wreaking  havoc  and  killing  without  discrimination. 
Then,  there  is  the  recurrence  of  the  epidemic  of  the 
Ebola  haemorrhagic  fever,  with  an  unprecedented 
incidence  of  infection,  which  is  plunging  Africa  into 
mourning.  Allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of 
those who have lost their lives trying to help those who 
are ill. I also pay solemn tribute to the men and women 
who risk their lives in their daily fight to eradicate the 
pandemic.
Given that the threat of Ebola is worldwide, national 
responses  should  be  replaced  by  a  comprehensive 
mobilization  at  the  global  level.  In  that  regard,  my 
country  welcomes  the  recent  steps  taken  by  the 
African Union and the United Nations, as well as the 
many  national  initiatives  that  have  been  announced. 
I welcome the United Nations decision to dispatch an 
emergency medical mission to fight the Ebola epidemic 
in the affected countries. My country, which prevailed 
in  its  fight  against  several  Ebola  crises  in  the  past, 
intends to make available the International Centre for 
Medical Research Centre in Franceville. The Centre’s 
expertise in treating that disease has been proven.
14-54847
11/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
I am pleased that this session allows us to debate a 
topic that concerns all of us, namely “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”. For Gabon, the report recently adopted by the 
General  Assembly  on  sustainable  development  goals 
(A/68/970)  is  a  solid  foundation  in  the  development 
of  that  agenda.  My  country  welcomes  the  fact  that 
African priorities, including the eradication of extreme 
poverty,  the  promotion  of  sustainable  agriculture  and 
industrialization, and the protection of the environment, 
all figure prominently in that report.
I would like to recall here that Gabon entered the 
post-2015  development  agenda  process  when  it  began 
to  implement  the  Strategic  Plan  for  an  Emerging 
Gabon. The plan is based on a vision, an approach that 
has  led  us  to  define  a  bold  development  programme. 
That programme, of course, incorporates the concerns 
reflected in the Millennium Development Goals, as well 
as the challenges of climate change and food security. 
It gives pride of place to everything that promotes the 
maximization  of  our  youth  potential.  The  strategy 
implemented by Gabon aims to accelerate the structural 
transformation of its economy by moving from a rentier 
economy to an economy of industries and services with 
high added-value in the near future.
In 
implementing 
the  current  phase  of 
that 
programme,  special  attention  is  being  devoted  to 
competitiveness  factors,  such  as  the  formation  of 
human  capital  and  the  construction  and  upgrading  of 
development infrastructure, including the development 
of a digital economy and the strengthening of energy-
production capacities. Over the short term, we intend to 
devote greater efforts to education and training in order 
to  improve  the  performance  of  our  basic  education 
system. The goal here is to enhance the employability 
of our workforce, provide a qualified labour force for 
our  labour  market  and  accelerate  the  integration  of 
young people into the workforce. The development of 
agriculture,  livestock,  fisheries  and  aquaculture,  as 
well  as  food  security,  continues  to  receive  sustained 
attention  from  my  Government.  Those  are  all  areas 
where  we  thought  it  best  to  anticipate  our  leap  in  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
It is common knowledge that all those efforts can 
truly  thrive  only  in  a  political,  economic  and  social 
environment marked by good governance. To that end, 
Gabon has established various institutional instruments, 
such as the National Commission for the Fight against 
Illicit Enrichment, whose overall mission is to ensure 
transparency and accountability in the management of 
public funds. Since then, I have made the fight against 
corruption  a  priority  strategic  objective.  Right  now, 
large-scale  inspection  and  verification  missions  are 
under  way  throughout  the  country  with  substantial 
results.  I  remain  firmly  convinced  that,  in  order  to 
establish a solid foundation for our post-2015 agenda, 
we  need  to  tailor  our  economic  environment,  so  as 
to  ensure  that  transparency  guides  the  awarding  of 
public contracts and licenses, that investments produce 
a  good  return,  and  that  economic  actors  respect  their 
obligations vis-à-vis the State.
Gabon’s  commitment  to  the  fight  against  climate 
change  remains  constant,  given  the  seriousness  of 
the problem. Indeed, as has already been pointed out, 
the  latest  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate  Change  draws  attention  to  the  harsh  reality 
of  the  damage  caused  by  climate  change.  It  would  be 
wrong on our part to remain insensitive in the face of 
what is transpiring before our very eyes. That is why I 
welcome the commitments made by the heads of State 
and Government at the end of the Climate Summit held 
here on 23 September.
I reiterate Gabon’s determination to bear its share 
of  our  common  duty.  Gabon’s  objective  is  to  reduce, 
by 2025, more than half the greenhouse gas emissions 
per  capita  produced  by  every  Gabonese.  My  country 
wishes  to  strengthen  its  contribution  to  the  efforts  of 
the international community aimed at the adoption of a 
more binding agreement to succeed the Kyoto Protocol. 
That is the purpose of the meeting that we will organize 
in  Libreville  from  18  to  19  March  2015,  our  “South 
Climate Initiative.” As part of that initiative, which will 
take  place  after  the  important  Lima  Conference,  we, 
the countries of the South, want to make a structured 
contribution  for  the  success  of  the  Paris  Conference. 
The  scale  of  climatic  upheavals  caused  by  global 
warming  shows  that  climate  change  is  a  vital,  even 
existential question. Given the extreme seriousness of 
the danger confronting us, we must unite. We need to 
work hand in hand towards the same goal, namely, to 
save the planet in Paris in December 2015.
In just one year, our Organization will celebrate its 
seventieth anniversary. That maturity should enable it 
to better respond to the multifaceted challenges that it 
faces.  The  effective  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda must also be tackled. That is why 
we  must  continue  our  efforts  to  resolve  crises  and 
hotbeds of tension in various parts of the world.
12/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
Regarding  the  Central  African  Republic,  Gabon 
continues  to  actively  participate  in  the  efforts  of  the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  the 
African Union, the United Nations and the rest of the 
international  community  in  seeking  to  stabilize  the 
political, security, economic and humanitarian situation 
on the ground.
In  that  connection,  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Brazzaville  Forum  for  National  Reconciliation  in  the 
Central  African  Republic,  which  concluded  with  the 
signing  of  a  ceasefire  agreement.  Moreover,  Gabon 
welcomes  the  effective  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic,  which  took 
over  from 
the  African-led  International  Support 
Mission  to  the  Central  African  Republic.  Regarding 
Mali, Gabon supports the peace process that has been 
launched and supports the mediation efforts by Burkina 
Faso, Algeria and Morocco aimed at achieving a lasting 
peace.  In  South  Sudan,  Gabon  supports  the  efforts 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development 
and  the  African  Union  in  the  search  for  a  negotiated 
political solution between the two parties.
the 
Regarding 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict, 
I 
welcome  the  signing,  under  Egyptian  mediation,  of  a 
ceasefire  agreement  between  Israel  and  Hamas.  My 
hope is that that truce lasts and promotes the resumption 
of  direct  negotiations  to  achieve  the  widely  shared 
vision of creating a viable Palestinian State existing in 
harmony alongside Israel in peace and security, within 
secure and internationally recognized borders.
Regarding  Western  Sahara,  Gabon  welcomes  the 
efforts  based  on  dialogue  and  negotiations  agreed  to 
by our Organization. My country wants to reiterate its 
support for the Moroccan initiative, which we consider 
to be a courageous and realistic proposal that could lead 
to a lasting settlement. Finally, in terms of the embargo 
against Cuba, Gabon reiterates its position in favour of 
lifting it, because of its negative impact on the welfare 
of the population.
Never  has  the  terrorist  threat  been  as  strong 
as  in  recent  times,  jeopardizing  the  survival  of  the 
institutions  of  the  countries  affected  by  that  terrible 
phenomenon. In Africa, Boko Haram’s activism pushes 
entire populations to live far from their homes and in 
terror, poverty and despair.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  so-called  Islamic  State 
has  extended  its  gruesome  reign  from  eastern  Syria 
to  northern  Iraq.  Its  establishment  there  has  been 
accompanied by a lengthy sequence of rape, summary 
executions, decapitations and punishments of all types 
inflicted upon all those who, in the eyes of the extremists, 
symbolize the rejection of their radicalization.
As  no  nation  is  now  spared  the  murderous  folly 
of  those  negative  entities,  the  fight  against  terrorism 
needs to be more concerted and organized. My country 
reiterates its support for international efforts undertaken 
to  that  end  and  reaffirms  its  firm  condemnation  of 
terrorist acts in all their forms and manifestations. In 
seeking  to  meet  the  security  challenge  of  terrorism, 
we  need  to  strengthen  the  operational  capacities  of 
our defence and security forces in conformity with the 
spirit of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy.
Our  concerns 
for  peace  and 
security  are 
compounded by other cross-cutting threats, notably the 
poaching of and illicit trafficking in protected species. 
That  growing  phenomenon,  especially  in  Central 
Africa, constitutes a threat at three levels: ecological, 
economic and security. My country therefore remains 
wedded to the London initiative of February 2014. We 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  opposing  poaching  and 
to  implementing  a  moratorium  on  the  ivory  trade.  To 
that end, Gabon and Germany will organize tomorrow, 
26 September, a side event on the issue.
My  country  is  more  determined  than  ever  to 
cooperate  further  with  other  States  in  formulating 
a  development  tool  that  would  take  into  account  the 
global concerns of our populations. That will involve, 
inter alia, achieving progress in the reform of the United 
Nations system. It is from that perspective that Gabon, 
like  other  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
adheres to the “Delivering as one” initiative. Currently 
at the very core of United Nations reform, that approach 
aims at improving the coherence of the United Nations 
system’s operational development activities.
Respect  for  human  dignity  and  for  fundamental 
freedoms  remains  at  the  heart  of  my  Government’s 
concerns.  That  factor  underpins  our  chairmanship 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  which  we  are  holding 
in  a  very  difficult  international  context  marked  by 
numerous  human  rights  violations.  Despite  all  those 
challenges,  the  Council  has  been  able  to  react  and  to 
respond with solutions to emergency situations caused 
by  such  violations.  Gabon’s  leadership  has  allowed 
constructive  debate  and  has  in  particular  prevented 
a  lapse  into  politicized  and  polarized  discussions.  I 
14-54847
13/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
should like to reiterate my gratitude to those countries 
that have lent us their support to ensure the success of 
our mandate.
From this rostrum, I encourage the inclusion of the 
human rights dimension in the current consideration of 
the post-2015 agenda. Gabon urges such inclusion, and 
suggests that particular emphasis be placed on the link 
between  human  rights  and  sustainable  development. 
Given all this, Gabon remains committed to engaging, 
alongside  other  States,  in  seeking  collective  solutions 
adapted to current challenges in preparation for a better 
world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Gabonese 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela 
Rodríguez, President of the Republic of Panama, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At the outset, I wish to congratulate Mr. Sam Kutesa, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uganda, on his election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session.
I am from a region that, in my youth, lived through 
challenging  conflicts.  That  inspired  me  to  go  into 
public  life,  which  in  turn  has  allowed  me  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  in  my  capacity  as  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama  at  a  time  when  the  world  is 
enduring conflicts and very serious situations that call 
for  all  of  us  to  take  action.  I  am  speaking  on  behalf 
of  a  noble,  wholesome  and  peaceful  people,  whom  I 
greet and warmly embrace from this rostrum. Panama 
is  a  peace-loving  country  that  has  granted  me  the 
opportunity to lead a Government that is steering our 
country  to  a  foreign  policy  of  unity  and  consensus, 
based  on  our  geographic  location  and  the  mandate  of 
being a champion of peace and the common good of all 
the inhabitants of this beautiful planet.
Despite the serious conflicts raging throughout the 
world today, America is at peace. The major challenges 
we face today are inequality, the fight against organized 
crime  and  drug  and  human  trafficking,  and  the  need 
to  regulate  migration  flowing  out  of  necessity  into 
countries  with  more  developed  economies.  Those 
challenges are being addressed by our Governments, but 
they require further coordination. As leaders, we must 
understand that in order to achieve and maintain peace 
throughout  the  world,  we  must  first  lead  our  nations 
along  the  same  path.  This  is  why  I  am  committed  to 
social justice, to strengthening the rule of law, and to 
leading an honest, humane Government that is in touch 
with  the  people  and  whose  strength  is  based  on  the 
principle that public office is solely for the service of 
others, putting our country’s resources at the service of 
the people of Panama, the region and the world.
Fourteen  years  ago,  the  Heads  of  State  and  of 
Government  of  the  international  community  gathered 
in  the  General  Assembly  to  approve  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which  defined  a  global 
development  agenda 
to  address  various  common 
challenges and improve the standards of living of our 
peoples. Despite their differences of the time, countries 
were able to agree and to reach a consensus to respect the 
priorities of each nation, focusing on the achievement 
of fundamental goals aimed at guaranteeing the human 
potential of our citizens.
Today,  nearly  a  decade  and  a  half  after  that 
historic  Declaration,  all  countries  without  exception, 
through  different  Governments,  have  made  important 
progress  in  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Nonetheless,  not  only  have  many  of 
the  challenges  defined  in  the  MDGs  not  been  met, 
but  new  ones  have  arisen  that  require  us  to  build  a 
new  consensus  and  to  establish  goals  at  the  regional, 
hemispheric and global levels. That is why, on behalf 
of the people and the Government of Panama, I would 
like to reiterate our commitment to being a facilitator 
of  dialogue  that  allows  for  bringing  the  international 
community together anew so that we may redefine the 
post-2015 global development agenda.
For the past five centuries, the isthmus of Panama 
has  been  the  transit  route  of  civilizations.  Today,  our 
14/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
country is still committed to that role. This year, as we 
mark the centennial of the Panama Canal, we reiterate 
our commitment to being a nation at the service of the 
international  community,  with  the  Canal,  our  logistic 
system, ports, airports and our heartfelt embrace of all 
countries of the world.
As  they  do  in  this  building,  the  United  Nations 
Headquarters,  all  the  worlds’  flags  come  together 
in  the  Panama  Canal,  and  that  is  a  source  of  pride 
and  satisfaction  for  all  Panamanians.  It  makes  us 
a  country  of  convergence,  and  we  therefore  have  a 
great  responsibility  to  the  Panamanian  people  and 
the  international  community.  Furthermore,  Panama 
has  assumed  the  challenge  of  completing  the  Canal 
expansion  project,  which  we  will  do  with  firmness, 
determination  and  the  support  of  professionals  and 
workers from Panama and various other nations.
Panamanians 
responsibility 
feel  a  great 
to 
contributing to the search for understanding in order to 
maintain  social  peace,  promote  international  security 
and  join  efforts  towards  the  solution  of  common 
problems that affect us. That is why we reaffirm today 
our vocation as a country of dialogue, ready to fulfil the 
responsibility  of  uniting  the  Americas  and  the  world 
within the framework of the United Nations and in every 
opportunity we have to mediate in disputes that hinder 
us from reaching agreements towards tackling the new 
global challenges. In April 2015, our country will host 
the  Summit  of  the  Americas,  and  we  are  working  on 
this event that will bring together all the Heads of State 
and Government of our hemisphere in order to promote 
integration and social peace with equity and prosperity.
The  193  countries  of  the  world  have  different 
political  systems,  beliefs,  religions  and  cultures  that 
must  be  respected.  In  spite  of  those  differences,  we 
all  face  common  challenges.  That  is  why,  in  order  to 
secure the well-being of our citizens, our Governments 
are  called  to  find  unity  of  criteria  for  strengthening 
multilateral  systems,  which  must  be  engaged  with  all 
the strength of States in order to combat shared threats 
and problems.
Within conflicts and difficult situations at the global 
level,  there  are  strong  messages  of  hope —  volunteer 
medical  doctors  from  all  over  the  world  are  making 
progress to fight Ebola in Africa, and several countries 
are united in the fight against terrorists whose atrocious 
crimes affect innocent people and threaten international 
peace  and  security.  Panama  is  aware  of  those  efforts 
and supports them. We express our solidarity with all 
victims and their families.
I am convinced that the men and women we elect 
to public office must serve only the people who elected 
us and manage public power temporarily granted to us 
with the purpose of improving the quality of life of our 
population. Politics is one of the strongest expressions 
of public service because it is the search for the common 
good. The greatest legacy, which I will strive to build 
during the next five years, is to leave the Panamanian 
people a functional democracy, to strengthen the rule 
of law, where public servants are accountable only to 
the nation, with strong institutions, accountability and 
without  impunity,  with  a  view  to  guaranteeing  that 
public administrations are honest and transparent. All 
Governments  have  the  obligation  to  ensure  that  State 
resources  are  used  exclusively  in  the  service  of  our 
citizens, and that all public works and projects have the 
people’s interests in mind.
Committed to that mission and to the achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals, I became President 
of my country on 1 July and formed a Government that 
will  continue  to  foster  the  economic  growth  enjoyed 
by Panama, while giving priority to public investment 
that  has  greater  impact  on  the  quality  of  life  of  all 
Panamanians.  With  an  average  domestic  economic 
growth  of  7  per  cent,  increasing  foreign  investment, 
legal  security,  low  inflation  and  unemployment  rates, 
and a consolidated democratic system, we are making 
good on the proposals for which I was elected.
During our mandate, we have taken strong measures 
to curb speculation in the cost of food. We are working 
to  ensure  that  Panamanian  families  have  adequate 
housing with access to drinking water, basic sanitation, 
water supply, sewage systems and treatment plants for 
waste water and solid waste. We have launched major 
social projects for our youth so that they grow up in safe 
neighbourhoods with better opportunities, jobs, sports 
facilities and cultural centres to keep them away from 
crime.
Our  public  schools  will  have  adequate  facilities 
and teachers trained in the English language, in order 
to  promote  a  bilingual  education.  Our  social  welfare 
programmes will allow all students to finish high school 
and  senior  citizens  to  live  with  dignity.  Our  students 
will have the opportunity to go to college or study at 
newly  established  higher  technical  institutes  that  will 
prepare  them  for  the  new  jobs  that  our  economy  is 
creating in the areas of logistics and tourism, inter alia.
14-54847
15/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
Our public health system will be unified, and the 
resulting savings will be used to strengthen preventive 
health programmes, ensuring better medical care, and 
premium  quality  treatments  and  medication.  We  are 
building  a  modern  and  efficient  public  transportation 
system with the new projects to add second and third 
lines to the Metro of Panama City, thereby improving 
the quality of life of our people. We will develop tourism 
and  support  air  connectivity  to  and  from  principal 
cities in the United States, Canada, Latin America, the 
Caribbean  and  Europe.  We  will  protect  our  logistical 
and financial systems to prevent organized crime and 
gangs from gaining access to them, and we shall tackle 
organized  crime  and  gangs  with  the  full  force  of  the 
State in order to defeat them and keep them away from 
our youth and our neighbourhoods.
Our Government will work tirelessly to prepare our 
young  people  to  be  responsible  citizens  of  the  world 
and  care  for  our  natural  resources  in  order  to  ensure 
sustainable development. We will work closely with the 
private sector and civil society in order to fulfil those 
national goals, the Millennium Development Goals and 
the new challenges of the global agenda.
We live in a diverse world, with different cultures, 
religions and political systems, but we can always find 
common ground in the well-being of our citizens. That 
was  the  approach  that  led  to  the  successful  adoption 
of the Millennium Declaration, and it will be the key 
to  defining  and  fulfilling  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
Panama is a country that is respectful of others and 
willing  to  serve  as  a  bridge  to  understanding,  on  the 
basis of respect for diversity, tolerance, pluralism and 
human rights. Above all, the Assembly can be assured 
that Panama’s Government is a Government of men and 
women  who  respect  the  law  and  are  willing  to  share 
experiences,  learn  from  best  practices  and  contribute 
to  global  peace,  socio-economic  development  and  the 
well-being of all peoples.
I would like to conclude by sharing a statement that 
has been with me since my youth: “The time has come 
to  put  our  capacity  to  use  in  service  of  others.”  May 
God give us the strength to continue to build together a 
better world for our citizens and for future generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Panama for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange, 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French):  I 
am  delighted  to  be  here  today  to  once  again  make  a 
contribution, on behalf of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo, to the debate on the present and future of 
humankind.  I  am  especially  delighted  as  this  sixty-
ninth session of the General Assembly is taking place 
at a time when the international situation is particularly 
delicate. If we are not careful, three of its phenomena in 
particular will surely delay us in achieving our agreed 
goals.  I  am  referring  to  the  issues  of  terrorism,  the 
resurgence of Ebola in Africa and the many threats to 
peace in various areas around the globe.
Despite  the  commendable  efforts  of  States  and 
international organizations, terrorism, an extreme form 
of human intolerance, continues to claim victims — as 
many  in  number  as  they  are  innocent  —  around  the 
world.  Africa,  which  was  once  spared  this  type  of 
senseless violence, is today at its epicentre. The people 
of Libya, Mali, Kenya, Somalia, Nigeria and many other 
countries  in  Europe,  America  and  Asia  are  regularly 
bereaved  by  attacks,  hostage-taking  and  summary 
executions.  All  States  Members  of  our  Organization 
must face the threat collectively, as a moral obligation 
and  the  only  effective  strategy  to  eradicate  this 
barbarism surely and quickly.
Since the previous session of the General Assembly, 
a major public health problem has also hindered Africa 
on its path towards development, namely, through the 
loss in human lives caused by Ebola in some countries of 
sub-Saharan Africa. In less than six months, the disease 
has claimed over 2,000 lives, including approximately 
16/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
40 in my own country. Africa is leading a heroic battle 
against the virus. It deserves support.
I am grateful to the international community, which 
is aware that, beyond the affected African populations 
today, all of humankind is under threat and which has 
extended  its  touching  and  effective  solidarity  to  the 
affected countries. I thank the international community 
for its significant technical and logistical support in the 
response against the epidemic. In the future, I hope to 
see  this  fine  example  of  human  brotherhood  prevail 
over the blind competition we see so often, and for it to 
occur with equal fervour in other sectors.
As  for  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
which  is  being  touched  for  the  seventh  time  by  this 
scourge, we have not only managed to contain this new 
epidemic at its origin — in Boende territory, Equateur 
province  —  but  also  provided  support  to  the  fight 
against the epidemic in West Africa. Now that we have 
all  but  mastered  the  situation  within  the  country,  the 
Democratic Republic of Congo is ready to once again 
send its experts to the other affected countries.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  announce  from  this 
rostrum  that,  on  the  basis  of  its  over  30  years  of 
experience  in  the  management  of  Ebola  outbreaks,  in 
October  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  will 
set up multidisciplinary training centres to train health 
personnel  to  respond  adequately,  in  terms  of  quality 
and quantity of care, to the needs of African countries 
that have been or could in the future be affected by such 
an epidemic.
As for the wars that are engulfing various parts of 
the world, including the Middle East, Ukraine, Syria, 
Iraq,  Libya  and  the  Central  African  Republic,  we 
should first recall that the United Nations was created 
following a world war, in order to establish mechanisms 
capable of preventing, or at least managing, situations 
that  bring  the  world  only  grief  and  despair;  and  then 
we  should  ask  ourselves  why  at  this  point,  decades 
after the San Francisco Conference, humankind seems 
unable to maintain and guarantee peace. Knowing that 
in this area any contribution is welcome, I would like to 
reaffirm the commitment of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo to working tirelessly for peace and stability 
in Africa and around the world. That is the reason for 
the presence of Congolese troop and police contingents 
in the Central African Republic.
The 
is  fundamental  because, 
without  it,  humankind  cannot  realize  or  implement  a 
issue  of  peace 
transformative development programme, as the central 
theme of this session has it. Nor can that goal be achieved 
as  long  as  terrorism  is  not  contained  and  epidemics 
such  as  Ebola  are  not  defeated.  From  experience,  we 
Congolese know that there is no challenge that cannot 
be  met  provided  there  is  the  will,  the  way  and  the 
determination.  We  all  know  where  my  country  was 
barely 13 years ago. Today I am happy to say that the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  standing  on  its 
feet once more. It is a country where a newfound peace 
is consolidated a little more every day; a country whose 
economy is one of the most dynamic on the continent, 
with an inflation rate close to zero, a growth rate that 
has exceeded the African average for almost a decade, 
and  steadily  increasing  foreign  exchange  reserves;  a 
country  undergoing  total  reconstruction,  with  roads, 
schools, hospitals and much other infrastructure being 
built at an unprecedented rate and speed.
On  the  political  front,  consolidating  democracy 
and  strengthening  national  cohesion  remain  our  top 
priorities.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  confirm  that  our 
forthcoming  elections  will  soon  be  held  according  to 
the schedule set by the relevant national institution, the 
Independent  National  Electoral  Commission.  Every 
effort  is  bring  made  to  ensure  that  our  country  will 
emerge  from  them  stronger,  more  peaceful  and  more 
united.
Regarding  security,  through  the  application  of  a 
judicious  mix  of  political  dialogue,  diplomacy  and 
military action we have moved steadily closer to the goal 
we have set ourselves of banishing negative forces from 
our land and thus helping to bring peace to the eastern 
part of the country and to our neighbours. In order to 
consolidate peace and improve social conditions for the 
people, we are working to improve the business climate 
so  as  to  stimulate  investment,  promote  greater  added 
value locally and create more jobs.
As can be seen, my country has resolutely taken the 
road of reconstruction, development and re-emergence 
and the defeat of poverty, injustice and inequality. It is 
an undeniably daunting task, and we still have some way 
to go to achieve our ultimate goal. But the people of the 
Congo are tackling it with enthusiasm and selflessness, 
determined as never before to make our march towards 
progress irreversible and to propel the country to a level 
of development commensurate with its potential. To do 
that, we must preserve stability at all costs, and that is 
what we will put the majority of our efforts into from 
14-54847
17/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
now on. And we count on the support of our partners in 
prioritizing everything that may involve.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to 
reiterate  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo’s 
continuing  plea  for  Africa  to  be  fairly  represented  in 
the  decision-making  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  Security  Council.  The  fact  is  that  it 
does not make sense that Africa, a continent with six 
of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world today, 
whose growth rate and youthful population are portents 
of  future  demographic  power  and  whose  forests, 
freshwater reserves and arable lands make it essential 
to  the  implementation  of  sustainable  development 
strategies,  does  not  have  a  permanent  seat  within  the 
entity responsible for ensuring peace and international 
security. It is high time that this changed. It is a question 
of fairness, and it is also a condition of our collective 
effectiveness.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Bulgaria.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President 
of the Republic of Bulgaria, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Plevneliev: Let me congratulate Mr. Sam 
Kutesa of Uganda on his assumption of the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I 
also extend my warmest gratitude to Mr. John Ashe for 
his work as President of the sixty-eighth session.
Over the past few months, Bulgaria and the Balkans 
have  suffered  unprecedented  floods.  Thousands  of 
people  lost  their  homes,  crops  were  ruined  and  many 
innocent  people  died.  The  heavy  storms  were  no 
longer news but a part of daily life. Nature once again 
reminded us that today, political statements alone were 
not  sufficient.  For  the  sake  of  our  children  and  our 
planet, it is time to act. As a wise man once said, we did 
not inherit the Earth from our fathers; we borrowed it 
from our children. Climate change needs to be urgently 
addressed. I would like to thank Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  for  having  organized  the  Climate  Summit. 
Bulgaria  will  actively  support  the  completion  of  the 
negotiations on the new, universal and legally binding 
climate agreement in 2015.
Bulgaria contributed to the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  development 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  through  its 
successful  participation  in  the  Open  Working  Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The  Group  has 
fulfilled  its  mandate.  The  Group’s  report,  together 
with the report of High-level Panel of Eminent Persons 
on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  (A/67/890, 
annex),  will  be  the  leading  documents  for  our  future 
discussions as we enter the critical phase of the debate 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  It  is  crucial 
that all sides stay engaged and committed to the final 
goal — an ambitious and forward-looking framework. 
No real transformative post-2015 development agenda 
will be possible unless we address the loopholes of the 
current Millennium Development Goals and build upon 
the  lessons  learned.  The  new  framework  should  be 
founded on the principles of respect for human rights, 
inclusiveness,  good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law. 
Youth-specific targets in the areas of education, health 
care and employment are of paramount importance as 
well.
Development  is  unthinkable  without  peace  and 
security.  The  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea  by  the 
Russian Federation and the conflict in eastern Ukraine 
have become one of the most serious threats to peace 
and security in Europe since the Second World War. The 
security environment in the Black Sea region has been 
seriously  affected.  The  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea 
undermines  the  international  order.  After  the  Second 
World War, we built our world on the clear principles 
embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  They 
were shattered to pieces in a matter of weeks. Bulgaria 
strongly supports the sovereignty, unity and territorial 
integrity  of  Ukraine.  My  country  does  not  recognize 
the  illegal  referendum  in  Crimea  and  condemns  the 
18/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
annexation by Russia as a violation of international law. 
Bulgaria  joined  the  numerous  sponsors  of  resolution 
68/262 on the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
My country welcomes the ceasefire agreement and 
is looking forward to the implementation of the peace 
plan.  Bulgaria  commends  all  international  efforts  for 
the peaceful resolution of the conflict. We welcome the 
strong engagement of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
and  the  initiatives  of  the  European  Union  and  the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, 
as  well  as  the  efforts  of  the  trilateral  contact  group. 
Russia  should  stop  arming  and  supporting  separatists 
in Ukraine.
In  a  few  days,  Ukrainians  will  vote  for  a  new 
parliament.  They  have  every  right  to  choose  their 
own  future.  I  sincerely  hope  that  those  elections  will 
be a major step forward in building a democratic and 
prosperous Ukraine. The signing and ratification of the 
European  Union  Association  Agreements  of  Ukraine, 
Moldova and Georgia represent an important milestone 
in  the  process  of  the  European  integration  of  those 
countries.  The  positive  change  witnessed  today  in 
the Balkans would not have been possible without the 
engine of the European integration.
The  escalation  of  violence  and  the  humanitarian 
situation  in  Syria  continue  to  be  a  source  of  grave 
concern. Millions of refugees have fled their homeland 
in  pursuit  of  peace  in  the  neighbouring  countries. 
Hundreds of thousands have lost their lives. More than 
10,000  refugees  have  sought  asylum  in  Bulgaria.  A 
lasting solution to the conflict in Syria can be achieved 
only through an inclusive political process. We call on 
the Security Council to unite. The unity of the Security 
Council is crucial in order for the conflict to be resolved.
The  Syrian  crisis,  along  with  the  outbreak  of 
violence and sectarian tensions in Iraq, has exacerbated 
the  security  and  humanitarian  situation  in  the  entire 
Middle  East  region.  Bulgaria  strongly  condemns  the 
armed attacks and killings perpetrated by the Islamic 
State terrorist organization against religious and ethnic 
minorities  and  denounces  the  brutal  execution  of 
innocent people. Bulgaria is an integral part of the broad 
international coalition against terrorism. A member of 
the European Union and of NATO, my country lends its 
political support, as well as humanitarian and material 
aid, within the scope of its possibilities. We welcome 
the adoption of Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) 
on foreign terrorist fighters.
Combating radicalization, supporting State-building 
in  Iraq  and  cooperating  with  regional  partners  are 
essential.  We  welcome  the  election  of  Mr.  Haider  Al 
Abadi as Prime Minister of Iraq. We hope that, under 
his  leadership,  a  Government  of  broad  representation 
will be established in order to preserve the territorial 
integrity and sovereignty of the country.
Bulgaria greatly values the role of the United Nations 
in Iraq and appreciates the contribution of Mr. Nickolay 
Mladenov, former Bulgarian Foreign Minister, Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and  Head 
of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq. 
We  stand  for  a  just  and  lasting  settlement  of  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  based  on  the  two-State 
solution formula. That is possible only through direct 
negotiations  with  no  preconditions  and  in  conformity 
with the relevant international obligations. Any durable 
ceasefire should address both Israeli security concerns 
and  Palestinian  demands  to  abolish  the  Gaza  closure 
regime.
The adoption of the Arms Trade Treaty was a major 
achievement of the international community. Just over a 
year later, the threshold of 50 ratifications was reached 
this  morning.  I  am  glad  that  my  country  is  among 
those 50 States that have made the entry into force of 
that  important  legal  instrument  a  reality.  The  Arms 
Trade  Treaty  fills  a  serious  gap  in  international  law. 
It establishes regulations for the trade in conventional 
arms  at  the  global  level.  Now  its  implementation  and 
universalization are of the utmost importance.
Twenty-five years ago, the Berlin Wall fell and the 
democratic  transitions  in  Central  and  Eastern  Europe 
began. My country Bulgaria chose to become a modern 
European democracy. We put our country back on the 
path  of  freedom,  independence,  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect  for  human  rights.  Our  society  has  proved  its 
firm commitment to democratic values and principles. 
We  have  witnessed  similar  political  changes  across 
South-East Europe. The Balkan countries have become 
partners, sharing the same values and projects for the 
future.  We  have  built  bridges  of  trust,  friendship  and 
mutual  respect.  We  are  working  together  to  improve 
links  and  competition  in  order  to  increase  prosperity 
in the Balkans.
Human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law 
are  at  the  heart  of  my  country’s  foreign  policy. 
Bulgaria’s commitment to advancing the human rights 
agenda  throughout  the  United  Nations  system  was 
further  strengthened  under  the  successful  Bulgarian 
14-54847
19/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
chairmanship of the Social, Humanitarian and Cultural 
Committee  during  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Bulgaria  is  determined  to  further 
contribute  to  promoting  and  upholding  human  rights 
internationally  as  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council for the period 2019-2021, and will rely on its 
partners’ valuable support of its candidature.
My  country  welcomes 
the  appointment  of 
Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Husein  of  Jordan  as  the 
new  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights — an excellent choice by the Secretary-General. 
We  wish  Prince  Zeid  all  success  in  fulfilling  his 
mandate.
We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  Rights  Up 
Front  Action  Plan  to  safeguard  human  rights  around 
the  world.  Bulgaria  commends  Deputy  Secretary-
General  Jan  Eliasson  for  his  insightful  vision  and 
global leadership with regard to that initiative and his 
valuable  contribution  to  advancing  the  human  rights 
agenda throughout the United Nations.
Bulgaria is concerned about the anti-Semitic attacks 
that  have  taken  place  recently,  especially  in  Europe. 
As  a  country  that  saved  48,000  Bulgarian  Jews  from 
deportation  during  the  Second  World  War,  Bulgaria 
strongly  condemns  the  recurring  trend  of  brutal  and 
disgusting manifestations of anti-Semitism.
This  year, 
the 
international  community 
is 
celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  which 
set a universal standard for the effective promotion of 
children’s rights. Bulgaria commends UNICEF for its 
enormous  contribution  during  that  time  to  improving 
children’s lives and advancing the child agenda around 
the world. As a member of the Bureau of the UNICEF 
Executive  Board  this  year,  my  country  supports 
and  actively  participates  in  all  efforts  aimed  at  child 
protection and achieving results for children.
My  country  is  convinced  that  the  United  Nations 
reform  process  should  continue  in  order  to  enhance 
the  efficiency,  representativeness  and  transparency  of 
the  entire  system,  and  to  make  it  more  adequate  and 
responsive  to  the  new  realities.  As  a  member  of  the 
Eastern European regional group, Bulgaria reiterates its 
position in favour of allocating at least one additional 
non-permanent seat to the Group in an enlarged Security 
Council. Bulgaria aspires to serve as a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council for the 2018-2019 term.
At  the  end  of  2016,  the  second  term  of  office  of 
the  current  and  highly  respected  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  will  come  to  an  end.  My  country 
greatly  values  his  outstanding 
leadership  and 
commitment.  Bulgaria  expects  that,  when  the  time 
comes, the States Members of the United Nations will 
be able to elect a worthy successor. To that end I would 
like to recall the relevant General Assembly resolution, 
which states that,
“[i]n  the  course  of  the  identification  and 
appointment  of  the  best  candidate  for  the  post  of 
Secretary-General, due regard shall continue to be 
given  to  regional  rotation  and  shall  also  be  given 
to gender equality” (resolution 51/241, annex, para. 
59).
Bulgaria is convinced that the time has finally come 
for the East European regional group to be represented 
at the helm of the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Bulgaria for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Bujar Nishani, President of the 
Republic of Albania
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania.
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Bujar Nishani, President of 
the Republic of Albania, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Nishani: It is a great pleasure for me to 
address the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. 
First,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the 
Assembly on his election to that post and to assure him 
of the full support of my country during this session. 
I believe that, under his leadership and given his prior 
experience, he will further advance the achievements of 
his predecessor, who worked with dedication to achieve 
concrete results.
20/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to 
express our deep appreciation to the Secretary-General 
for his vision and leadership at the helm of the United 
Nations  and  his  continuing  efforts  to  revitalize  and 
reform the Organization.
many other initiatives on Syria, the effort was vetoed 
in the Security Council. We reiterate and reaffirm that 
the  perpetrators  of  atrocities  in  Syria  must  be  held 
accountable and that the people of Syria deserve relief 
and justice.
Albania 
is  committed 
to  an  efficient  and 
coherent  United  Nations,  fit  for  its  purpose  as  a 
multidimensional system. We support its strengthened 
role and contribution to efforts to preserve peace and 
security,  eradicate  poverty,  inequality  and  disparity, 
achieve sustainable human and economic development, 
and promote respect for and protect human rights as a 
universal  value  of  humankind.  A  more  fitting  United 
Nations,  with  the  ability  to  swiftly  respond  to  man-
made  or  natural  crises  and  effectively  use  available 
human  and  financial  resources,  is  key  to  achieving 
those objectives in view of an increasingly chaotic and 
hungry world.
Maintaining,  restoring  and  strengthening  peace 
and  security  constitute  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations.  With  so  many  resources 
and  so  much  knowledge  and  manpower  invested  in 
dealing with the various and complex crises around the 
globe, it is simply impossible to ignore the contribution 
the  Organization  has  made  to  the  world,  year  upon 
year,  decade  upon  decade.  Yet  in  2014  the  challenges 
to  peace,  security  and  human  values  have  continued, 
necessitating  more  responsive,  coordinated  and  swift 
reactions on the part of the United Nations.
We  deplore  the  events  in  South  Sudan,  where 
tragedies  have  been  played out and continue  to shake 
human  consciences.  Fighting  along  ethnic 
lines 
has  brought  far  too  much  suffering  to  the  innocent 
population.  Only  a  negotiated  political  solution  that 
considers,  protects  and  respects  the  rights  of  all  the 
communities  concerned  can  help  rebuild  trust  and 
understanding, turning the page on a better future for 
the youngest country in the world.
It is hard to find the words to describe the situation 
in Syria. After more than three years of deadly fighting, 
the  country  is  barely  liveable.  Every  kind  of  horrible 
act  has  happened  there.  More  than  170,000  people 
have died, millions are refugees, and large parts of the 
country are in ruins. With fighting and mass atrocities 
being committed every day, any hope of ending the war 
is a remote dream for those still trapped there. Albania 
joined the initiative taken by some 60 States Members 
of the United Nations to refer the situation in Syria to 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Unfortunately,  like 
The events this year in Ukraine have been deeply 
worrying.  What  we  thought  was  behind  us  once  and 
for all, what we believed belonged to the history books 
and would serve as a lesson for today’s generation and 
those  of  the  future  —  acts  violating  the  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  another  country,  blatantly 
infringing and undermining the Charter of the United 
Nations  —  was  unfortunately  exhumed  by  a  Member 
of  the  United  Nations,  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security Council, the Russian Federation.
Despite  all  the  propaganda  that  Russia  spewed 
forth,  the  Ukrainian  crisis  had  nothing  to  do  with 
protecting  the  rights  of  ethnic  Russians.  It  was  much 
simpler — from the first, it was about the ambition of a 
more powerful country to redraw another’s borders in 
order to satisfy its appetite for its neighbour’s territory. 
Although the Security Council has been unable to act on 
this issue, the General Assembly voted overwhelmingly 
not  to  accept  Russia’s  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea. 
The States Members of the United Nations, including 
Albania,  made  clear  their  support  for  the  territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty  of  Ukraine  and  their  full 
respect  for  the  norms  and  principles  of  international 
law, and we reiterate that international relations must be 
governed by full respect for the principles and norms of 
international law and the Charter. The case of Ukraine 
is no exception.
the  world  spiraling 
With  these  crises  and  disasters  erupting  in  a 
frightening  pattern  and 
into 
insecurity,  development  has  also  been  under  stress. 
The  United  Nations  has  contributed  to  raising  global 
awareness of the challenges facing development and the 
sustainable solutions that can bring economic growth, 
social inclusion and environmental protection and put 
our planet on a sustainable path.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
created one of the most successful global anti-poverty 
drives  in  history.  Covering  poverty,  hunger,  maternal 
and  child  health,  gender  equality,  education  and  the 
environment, the MDGs have seen important progress 
at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  and  have 
improved the lives of millions. The number of people 
living in extreme poverty has been halved since 2005, 
14-54847
21/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
but with the deadline just months away, a lot remains 
to be done.
But  another  ambitious  long-term  sustainability 
agenda,  designed  to  succeed  the  MDGs,  is  in  the 
making.  Albania  has  been  an  active  participant  in 
the  global  consultations  focused  on  making 
the 
people’s  voices  part  of  the  formulation  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda. Albania has agreed to test a 
proposed development goal on governance and the rule 
of  law  designed  to  help  countries  achieve  sustainable 
development.  We  hope  our  experience  in  monitoring 
governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  effective,  capable 
institutions will help to inform the upcoming post-2015 
agenda of the United Nations.
Terrorism  remains  a  major  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security,  and  the  fight  against  terrorism  is 
a priority that requires a greater commitment. We are 
aware that this global threat can be countered only with 
collective  action  and  a  powerful  response.  Albania 
condemns  in  the  strongest  terms  all  terrorist  attacks 
by terrorist groups and organizations in Iraq and Syria, 
including and especially by the Islamic State in Iraq and 
the Levant (ISIL). Conscious that terrorism is a threat 
without borders, a threat to human values and principles 
as well as to individual countries and regions, Albania 
has  joined  the  recently  created  international  coalition 
aimed at deterring and eventually defeating ISIL.
European 
integration  and  cooperation 
in  our 
region,  and  the  geopolitical  and  security  situation  in 
Europe,  have  changed  significantly  in  recent  months. 
The Western Balkans, of which my country is part, is 
an  important  geo-strategic  European  region  and  one 
that  recently  committed  fully  to  a  path  of  increased 
political  stability,  economic  progress  and  sustainable 
development,  with  strengthened  cooperation,  security 
characterized  by  good  relations  with  its  neighbours, 
and peace consolidation. The European route is the best 
guarantee for achieving these objectives in our region.
We  are  committed  to  resolving  various  bilateral 
issues as soon as possible, in the interests of our people 
and  our  neighbourly  relations.  We  are  fully  aware 
that we must enact a number of measures to eradicate 
corruption  and  organized  crime.  Like  every  country 
in  the  region,  we  have  expressed  our  willingness 
to  conduct  joint  reforms  that  will  bring  increased 
economic stability and prosperity for our citizens and 
that will open markets and attract foreign investment.
The Republic of Kosovo is one of the members of 
our  Western  Balkan  community,  the  youngest  State 
in the region. In less than six years as an independent 
State, Kosovo has managed, through a transformative 
development  agenda,  to  enjoy  wide,  uninterrupted 
international recognition and to successfully integrate 
into  international,  regional  and  global  organizations, 
such  as  the  World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund,  the  European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development,  the  European  Bank  for  Development, 
the  Venice  Commission,  the  South-East  European 
Cooperation Process and others. Kosovo has become an 
important factor for peace and stability in the region, 
and Albania fully supports its overall development, as 
well  as  its  stability  and  territorial  integrity  within  its 
current borders.
Kosovo’s  progress,  the  new  atmosphere  in  the 
region, and the need for the region as a whole to move 
towards  more  cooperation  and  prosperity  have  led 
down the path to successful European Union-sponsored 
talks between Kosovo and Serbia as two equal partners 
in  seeking  concrete  solutions  to  technical  issues  of 
importance  to  their  citizens.  Time  has  shown  that 
engaging in dialogue was a wise decision. Dialogue has 
produced  concrete  results,  brought  the  two  countries 
closer  to  each  other,  and  facilitated  and  sped  up  the 
European  Union  integration  path  for  both  States. 
Albania fully supports the process of dialogue and calls 
for the full implementation of the agreements reached.
To date, Kosovo has been recognized by 108 States 
Members of the United Nations, representing more than 
half  of  the  United  Nations  membership.  Recognition 
has without doubt been an important factor in Kosovo’s 
progress. That is why, as before, we call on the countries 
that have not yet recognized Kosovo to do so, since in 
so doing they would not only help the people of Kosovo 
advance  towards  their  future  but  also  contribute  to 
peace and stability in the region.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
We  remain  convinced  that  the  quick  and  full 
implementation  of  the  Ohrid  Framework  Agreement 
represents a condition indispensable to the sustainable 
stability  of  Macedonia, 
the  consolidation  of 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  to  fulfilling  and 
realizing the rights of Albanians. Albania encourages 
the  continuation  of  dialogue  between  the  Belgrade 
authorities and the Albanians of the Presheva valley to 
to 
22/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
promote  their  rights  in  accordance  with  international 
standards,  focusing  especially  on  solving  economic, 
social, educational and cultural problems.
During  the  past  two  decades,  Albania  has  been 
transformed from a totalitarian State into a functioning 
democracy. Progress is evident, above all, in the field 
of  human  rights.  The  protection  and  promotion  of 
human  rights  are  one  of  the  national  priorities  and 
part  of  Albania’s  foreign  policy.  Albania  offers  a 
valuable  model  of  respect  for  diversity,  tolerance  and 
coexistence for the Balkan region and beyond. For the 
Albanian people, tolerance and hospitality are inherent 
values derived from our national tradition.
The  presentation  of  Albania’s  candidacy  for 
membership  on  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
2015-2017  term  is  only  a  logical  consequence  of 
our  road  towards  building  a  society  based  on  human 
rights. We are confident that Albania has accumulated 
valuable  experience  in  democracy  over  the  years  that 
it can share with other member countries of the United 
Nations.  Moreover,  by  reaffirming  the  universality, 
indivisibility  and  interdependence  of  human  rights, 
Albania  is  committed  to  bringing  a  national  and 
regional  perspective  into  the  Council’s  deliberations 
and advocacy of human rights worldwide.
We are aware that our membership in the Council 
for  the  2015-2017  term  is  a  challenge  bearing  great 
responsibility  to  justify  the  confidence  of  Member 
States.  On  the  other  hand,  Human  Rights  Council 
membership would serve as an impetus for my country 
to  further  democratization  and  to  raise  human  rights 
standards.  Therefore,  Albania,  after  obtaining  the 
endorsement of the group of Eastern European States, 
would welcome and appreciate the support of all other 
Member States for its candidacy to the Council.
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
to  reiterate  Albania’s 
determination  to  continue  its  support  of  the  United 
Nations agenda and strengthening the role of the United 
Nations globally.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Albania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Hungary.
Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  János  Áder,  President  of 
Hungary, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Áder (spoke in Hungarian; interpretation 
provided by the delegation): “If you seek peace, prepare 
for  war.”  Those  are  the  words  of  Publius  Flavius 
Vegetius  Renatus’  fourth-  or  fifth-century  tract  De 
Re Militari, written more than 1,600 years ago. People 
have quoted that saying numerous times and in many 
circumstances.  If  the  Assembly  believes  after  all  this 
that  I  am  going  to  speak  about  the  wars  and  armed 
conflicts  raging  throughout  the  world,  it  is  mistaken. 
Instead, I would like to speak to the Assembly about a 
war and a battle that we seem to be losing. It is a war we 
are  waging  against  our  own  natural  environment  and 
against our own human nature.
Two  days  ago  here  in  the  General  Assembly 
Hall,  many  heard  the  words  of  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  and  President  Obama  about  the  dire 
consequences  of  climate  change  (see  A/69/PV.6).  We 
heard very detailed statistics illustrating the gravity of 
the situation and the need for us to pool our efforts. And 
we have been preparing for that for a long time.
When did we first notice signs of trouble with the 
environment? Few people may know that the first clear 
signal came in 1896, when a Swedish scientist wrote that 
an increase in the atmospheric level of carbon dioxide 
would lead to a temperature rise; 60 years later, we had 
precise  measurements  to  substantiate  his  statement. 
Another 30 years had to pass before here, in the United 
Nations, it was understood that some type of treaty or 
agreement would be necessary in the future to deal with 
the issue. Another 10 years had to pass before the Kyoto 
Protocol was signed. Between the first realization and 
the Kyoto agreement a century had passed.
After  Kyoto,  a  number  of  conferences,  scientific 
meetings and political gatherings were held. In recent 
decades, many people have spoken on many occasions 
about the consequences of climate change and the need 
to  do  something.  Still  the  situation  has  continued  to 
deteriorate. Let me cite one statistic. Since 1990 — that 
14-54847
23/25
A/69/PV.10 
25/09/2014
is, during the past 25 years — despite all the resolve, 
the Kyoto agreement and all the promises, we have seen 
a 30 per cent increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide.
Despite  the  fact  that  Mother  Nature  has  warned 
us again and again, adverse climate events continue to 
occur one after the other. Allow me to mention a few 
examples from the past year. In 2013 in the state of Uttar 
Pradesh in India, there were freezing temperatures in 
January, which was unprecedented. At the same time, 
in Lapland in Finland — not exactly the Mediterranean 
region  —  in  May  the  temperature  had  reached  31°C, 
while Bethlehem experienced a white Christmas that no 
one remembered having seen before. In Australia, over 
the  course  of  90  days  last  summer,  123  temperature 
records were set.
The  Danube  is  the  largest  river  in  Europe  and  it 
has warned us again and again. Allow me to report a 
Hungarian  example.  Since  before  the  Second  World 
War,  the  Danube  River  has  flooded  many  times,  but 
until recently it had never risen to the level of 8  metres, 
even at the flood’s highest point. In the past four years, 
the Danube has risen above 8 metres on four separate 
occasions. In fact last year, it rose close to 9 metres.
Floods, typhoons and other adverse meteorological 
events  are  taking  place  in  regions  where  they  have 
never  occurred  before  and  at  unprecedented  times  of 
the year. We are meeting here in New York. Two years 
ago here in New York, Hurricane Sandy caused damage 
valued  at  $20  billion,  and  more  than  40  people  died. 
This all took place despite the fact that for years on end 
the  New  York  City  leadership  had  been  cautioned  by 
scientists that trouble would occur and that protection 
for embankments, among others, must be strengthened. 
A few hundred million dollars would have been spent to 
that end; instead, the damage caused by Sandy cost far 
more. That is why, two days ago, the Assembly heard 
the Mayor of New York speak of the next 35 years and 
the  desire  to  reduce  New  York’s  emissions  by  80  per 
cent.
In recent days, we have spoken on many occasions 
about  our  preparations  for  the  2015  Paris  conference 
and  the  desire  to  reach  an  agreement  there.  I  believe 
that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  needs  to  be 
recognized in that regard. He has truly done his utmost 
to  ensure  that  we  can  reach  a  common  conclusion  in 
Paris in 2015. The question is, are we Member States 
doing all we can? Will we do all that we can to ensure 
success in Paris?
The speeches I have heard over the past few days 
have not made me optimistic. The speeches I have heard 
deflected responsibility and reflected a type of political 
narrow-mindedness that is not terribly promising. Why 
can  we  not  listen  to  the  wisdom  and  advice  of  our 
scientists?  Why  can  we  not  accept  scientific  results 
that today appear evident? Why can we not accept the 
signals being dispatched by our planet? Why can we not 
learn from all of the lessons provided by Mother Nature? 
Why are we not learning from our own example?
There  is  one  good  example  that  we  could  learn 
from.  It  involves  chlorofluorocarbon  gases  and  the 
damage they cause to the ozone layer. Basically, those 
gases were first used in the 1950s. It took only 30 years 
for the ozone layer to be reduced by 40 per cent in the 
area above Antarctica. That was also enough time for 
people  in  every  country  to  understand  the  medical 
consequences. I note, among others, the high incidence 
of dermatological cancers. It was basically only at the 
very  last  moment  in  Montreal  that  an  agreement  was 
struck, as a result of which we banned those gases. After 
35 years, last week we saw the first report discussing a 
regeneration of the ozone layer.
Regarding  political  narrow-mindedness,  we  saw 
examples  of  that  in  the  past.  I  will  cite  one.  United 
States  President  Reagan’s  Secretary  of  the  Interior, 
Donald Hodel, said that one way to protect against the 
thinning  ozone  layer  was  to  purchase  wide-brim  hats 
and  wear  dark  sunglasses.  Why  must  we  wait  for  the 
concentration  of  atmospheric  carbon  dioxide  to  result 
in  a  situation  as  serious  as  that  involving  the  ozone 
layer? Why can we not, late next year, make Paris as 
successful as Montreal?
I  believe  that  the  problem  is  larger  than  we 
imagine. Scientists already agree that the desired and 
often articulated objective of limiting the temperature 
increase  to  2°C  has  become  increasingly  elusive. 
Only a few days ago, we read that the carbon dioxide 
concentration has never been higher than it was last year. 
We may well have reached the point at which, whether 
or  not  we  come  to  an  agreement  today  or  tomorrow, 
scientists  will  tell  us  that  all  the  consequences  of 
irresponsible decisions past and present would still be 
felt in the future in the form of floods, typhoons and 
other adverse climate events.
We  have  to  come  to  terms  with  the  idea  —  and 
I  would  say  that  it  will  be  very  difficult  —  that  the 
coming  generation,  our  children’s  generation,  will 
24/25 
14-54847
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.10
unfortunately  have  to  live  with  that  situation.  We 
will  have  to  pay  a  dear  price  for  our  irresponsible 
environmental policies.
Today it is no longer enough to reduce emissions. 
It  is  no  longer  enough  to  agree  to  reduce  emissions. 
We have to prepare for more and more serious natural 
events  and  disasters.  We  have  to  heed  the  advice  of 
Nicholas  Stern,  who  said  eight  years  ago  that  if  we 
did not spend 1 per cent of our gross domestic product 
(GDP)  on  prevention,  then  the  environmental  damage 
we  would  suffer  could  amount  to  as  much  as  20  per 
cent of GDP.
I have just cited the example of New York City. A 
few hundred million dollars would have been enough to 
mitigate damages totaling several billion. The New York 
example  tells  us  that  we  are  not  in  the  twenty-fourth 
hour, but in the twenty-fifth. The tragedy endured by 
this metropolis, the host of our meeting, again justifies 
the  words  of  Vegetius,  somewhat  amended  to  the 
situation — if you seek calm, prepare for disaster.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Hungary for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
14-54847
25/25
