United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
4th plenary meeting
Monday, 22 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.4
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
World Conference on Indigenous Peoples
Agenda item 65
Rights of indigenous peoples
High-level plenary meeting of the 
General Assembly to be known as the 
World Conference on Indigenous Peoples
Draft resolution (A/69/L.1)
The  President:  The  World  Conference  on 
Indigenous  Peoples,  the  first  ever  convened,  is  truly 
a  historic  event.  It  is  a  great  privilege  and  honour  to 
welcome  everyone  present  in  the  General  Assembly 
today.
At the outset, let me pay tribute to the indigenous 
peoples of this land — the Haudenosaunee, also known 
as  the  Six  Nations  or  Iroquois.  I  also  wish  to  send  a 
warm embrace to indigenous peoples around the world. 
I  am  truly  honoured  to  preside  over  this  Conference, 
which must focus on the challenges facing indigenous 
peoples  and  on  renewed  commitments  by  Member 
States to address them.
The  World  Conference  on  Indigenous  Peoples 
is  a  culmination  of  the  dynamic  interface  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  indigenous  peoples  of  the 
world  over  the  past  50  years.  The  process  leading  to 
this Conference has been unprecedented in the history 
of  the  Organization,  as  it  has  involved  the  active 
participation  of  indigenous  peoples  in  its  preparation 
as  well  as  cooperation  between  Member  States  and 
indigenous  peoples  in  the  preparation  of  the  draft 
outcome  document.  We  are  indeed  heartened  by  the 
inclusive  nature  of  the  preparatory  process,  which 
bodes well for the implementation of post-Conference 
commitments.
For more than 30 years, indigenous peoples’ issues 
have  been  a  preoccupation  at  the  United  Nations. 
Negotiations  between  Member  States  and  indigenous 
leaders,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
Working  Group  on  Indigenous  Populations,  were 
indeed long and protracted, but they eventually led to 
the General Assembly’s adoption of the United Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  in 
2007.
Most important, the Declaration represents a global 
consensus  on  indigenous  peoples’  rights  and  affirms 
their right to self-determination. Furthermore, it accords 
pre-eminence  to  collective  rights  in  international 
human rights law and serves to galvanize international 
attention  on  the  protection  of  both  the  individual  and 
collective rights of indigenous peoples.
It  is  important  to  note  the  valuable  contributions 
of  the  institutional  arrangements  that  have  served  to 
translate the objectives of the Declaration into reality 
and fostered specific policies on how the United Nations 
should  engage  with  and  support  the  aspirations  of 
indigenous peoples. Particularly, I would like to mention 
the  contributions  of  the  United  Nations  Permanent 
Forum on Indigenous Issues, the Inter-Agency Support 
Group  on  Indigenous  Peoples’  Issues,  the  Special 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54394 (E)
*1454394*
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
level, 
At  a  national 
Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples and the 
Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
there  have  been  many 
declarations  of  commitments,  policies  and  legislative 
actions to improve the conditions of indigenous peoples. 
Yet there continues to be a deep chasm between those 
commitments and reality. The World Conference should 
serve as a turning point for translating the Declaration 
into concrete action.
The draft outcome document, which we will adopt 
today, is another pact between indigenous peoples and 
Member  States  that  builds  on  the  Declaration.  It  is 
carefully  crafted  and  comprises  many  action-oriented 
commitments  directed  towards  addressing  the  gaps 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Declaration.  Included 
among  the  commitments  are  a  system-wide  action 
plan to ensure coherence in the various efforts towards 
realization of the provisions of the Declaration, as well 
as a call for enhancing the participation of indigenous 
peoples  and  their  representative  institutions  at  the 
United Nations.
This  World  Conference  is  an  opportunity  for 
Member States to engage indigenous peoples in a more 
strategic  and  beneficial  manner.  That  will  require 
Member States to make greater efforts to translate the 
draft outcome document into reality and to demonstrate 
resolve  in  addressing  inequities  that  adversely  affect 
indigenous  communities.  Member  States  must  also 
follow through on capacity-building commitments that 
will  allow  indigenous  peoples  to  manage  their  own 
affairs.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  urge  Member  States, 
intergovernmental organizations, civil society and the 
private sector to make a renewed commitment towards 
strategic partnership with indigenous peoples to help in 
their quest for a sustainable future,
I now give the floor to Secretary-General Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  I  wish  to  thank  those 
attending  for  coming  to  the  United  Nations  for  this 
historic,  first-ever  World  Conference  on  Indigenous 
Peoples. I am going to greet the General Assembly in 
a  few  indigenous  languages.  I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot 
speak in every language represented in the Assembly, 
but  please  consider  this  my  way  of  welcoming  each 
person.
Takahi  (Taíno  —  Latin  America),  Aweh  (South 
Africa),  Kia  ora  (New  Zealand),  Buorre  beaivvi
(Saami — Norway and Sweden), Hao (Lakota — North 
America), Kopisanangani (Dusun-Sabah, Malaysia).
This is the most important week of the year at the 
United Nations, and this Conference is one of our most 
important  events  because  it  connects  so  much  of  our 
most  critical  work.  Indigenous  peoples  are  concerned 
about issues that top the global agenda. They are deeply 
connected to Mother Earth, whose future is at the heart 
of the Climate Summit opening tomorrow. Indigenous 
peoples  are  central  to  our  discourse  on  human  rights 
and global development. The Assembly’s deliberations 
and decisions will reverberate across the international 
community  with  concrete  effects  in  the  lives  of 
indigenous  people.  The  success  of  this  Conference  is 
integral to progress for all humankind.
(spoke in Spanish)
In  order  to  prepare  myself  for  this  Conference,  I 
met with many indigenous leaders to listen to the things 
they  were  concerned  about  and  to  learn  from  their 
experiences.
In  June,  I  went  to  Bolivia,  a  country  that  has 
made  enormous  progress  in  the  areas  of  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples.  President  Morales  was  a  decisive 
driving force for this conference.
The  people  of  El  Torno  were  very  warm  and 
generous. I was very much impressed by their wealth 
of  culture.  They  taught  me  about  the  relationship  of 
respect  between  indigenous  peoples  and  nature.  This 
could be summed up in the expression that I adopted in 
Bolivia: “Good living,” which means to live well, but in 
a simpler way.
(spoke in English)
In  July,  I  held  talks  with  indigenous  leaders  in 
Costa  Rica.  The  former  Permanent  Representative  of 
Costa  Rica,  Eduardo  Ulibarri,  also  actively  promoted 
this conference. We had a meaningful, open discussion. 
I listened closely to what the indigenous leaders had to 
say. They were worried about land, resources and their 
rights.  I  repeated  my  pledge  to  address  the  exclusion 
and  marginalization  facing  many  indigenous  peoples 
around the world.
Earlier this month, I was in New Zealand, where I 
travelled to Taupo to spend a day with Maori leaders. 
They were using their great respect for nature to build 
2/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
prosperity. I was impressed by their multimillion-dollar 
horticulture, waste-management and energy-production 
companies. I will never forget how every bit of waste 
is fed to worms that create very rich organic fertilizer. 
That is sustainability in action. It showed how much the 
world can learn from indigenous peoples.
I will continue visiting indigenous communities and 
hearing from their leaders, and they will always have a 
home at the United Nations. I am proud that the General 
Assembly  adopted  the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples (resolution 61/295) during my first 
year  in  office.  That  set  minimum  standards  for  the 
survival, dignity and well-being of indigenous peoples. 
More and more countries are reflecting those principles 
in their laws and constitutions. United Nations agencies 
have also developed specific policies to guide our work 
for indigenous peoples, and we are joining forces with 
indigenous peoples to reach our common goals.
I  am  pleased  to  welcome  representatives  of  our 
leading  experts,  the  Permanent  Forum  on  Indigenous 
Issues,  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  and  the  Expert 
Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. I am 
sure they would agree that it is important to get pledges 
from Governments — but it is even more important to 
see actions. That is why I am encouraged that the draft 
conference  outcome  document  (A/69/L.1)  contains 
action-oriented commitments to bridge the gap between 
promises and results. I thank all the indigenous peoples 
and  Governments  that  cooperated  in  good  faith  to 
produce that draft. And I expect Member States to meet 
their commitments, including by carrying out national 
action plans to realize our shared vision.
I welcome the outcome document’s direct requests 
to me. I will also consult the rest of the United Nations 
system on the way forward. We will work closely with 
all  of  the  indigenous  peoples  and  the  Member  States. 
The  outcome  document  also  requests  that  I  develop 
concrete  proposals  to  enable  indigenous  peoples  and 
their  institutions  to  more  directly  participate  in  our 
United Nations activities. That is critical for indigenous 
communities  —  and  for  our  world.  The  outcome 
document also asks me to appoint a high-level official 
on indigenous peoples. I will give that my most serious 
consideration. The United Nations will do everything 
possible to support indigenous peoples — and we count 
on  their  engagement  in  our  global  drive  for  a  more 
sustainable future.
I  began  with  greetings  in  a  few  indigenous 
languages. I know there are thousands of others. Some 
of  them  are  in  danger  of  extinction.  I  am  proud  that 
the Declaration has been translated beyond the United 
Nations’ six official languages into 50 other languages. 
I  hope  we  can  add  many  more  to  the  long  list.  At 
the  same  time,  I  count  on  the  indigenous  peoples  to 
speak with one voice. A long-time indigenous activist 
and  former  member  of  the  Permanent  Forum,  Tonya 
Gonnella Frichner, once said: “Indigenous peoples all 
speak many different languages but in our meetings, we 
are speaking one language. Our relationship to Mother 
Earth is identical.”
I urge the indigenous peoples to join their voices in 
a harmonious chorus to secure their rights and protect 
our planet. The United Nations stands with them in this 
struggle.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his multilingual statement.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  offer  special  wishes  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, to the President of the General Assembly, to 
all the representatives of States Members of the United 
Nations  and  to  the  representatives  of  the  indigenous 
peoples  of  the  world  who  are  here  and  those  who  are 
listening to this first World Conference on Indigenous 
Peoples.
First, on behalf of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, 
I would like to thank and congratulate the Secretary-
General  for  having  ensured  for  us  the  convening  of 
this  first  official  summit  of  the  United  Nations  on 
indigenous peoples. I would like to say to all here, and 
to those listening, that the fundamental principles of the 
indigenous movement are life, Mother Earth and peace. 
Those  fundamental  principles  of  indigenous  peoples 
throughout  the  world  are  constantly  being  threatened 
by a system, the capitalist system, a model of how one 
can put an end to life and Mother Earth itself. That is 
why I want to say to all of my brothers and sisters that 
I have come here to share with them some experiences 
that I have had during my short period of ruling Bolivia 
as  a  President  who  comes  from  the  social  movement, 
the indigenous people’s movement.
In  the  history  of  Bolivia,  indigenous  people  have 
been the most hated, humiliated, vilified, marginalized 
and  discriminated  against.  Thanks  to  the  struggle 
and awareness of my brothers, not just the indigenous 
14-54394
3/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
movement but also the social movements have had an 
opportunity to share experiences in order to defend life 
and change the models that so threaten life and nature 
itself.
I would like to tell the Assembly first of all that, 
historically  in  Bolivia,  the  indigenous  movement  was 
able only to vote, but not to govern. In this short time, 
we have shown that the indigenous movement does not 
exist  simply  to  vote  in  elections,  but  also  to  govern. 
Thanks to the struggle of social movements, politics is 
no  longer  a  business  or  a  reward.  Politics  now  means 
service,  commitment  and,  beyond  that,  sacrifice  on 
behalf of our peoples.
Secondly, those who govern the world need to govern 
by obeying their people and by working in collaboration 
with their people and with social movements. Our people 
and nations cannot be governed by bankers, powerful 
businessmen  or  multinational  corporations.  Bolivia 
is the first and only country to have incorporated the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples into its legislation. The Declaration was given 
legal  status  in  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  in 
2007. Likewise, the rights of indigenous peoples were 
incorporated into our Constitution, which was approved 
by referendum in 2009.
Thirdly, 
the  natural  resources  so  generously 
bestowed upon us by our Mother Earth should benefit 
all.  Bolivia’s  oil  revenues  in  2005,  before  I  became 
President,  totalled  $300  million.  This  year,  following 
the  nationalization  of  petrochemicals,  oil  revenues 
will exceed $6 billion. Quite frankly and with all due 
sincerity, I would like to let Members know that neither 
I nor our Vice-President nor the Cabinet realized how 
quickly  the  economic  situation  of  our  country  would 
change.  By  nationalizing  hydrocarbons,  we  freed 
ourselves  economically  from  the  gendarmes  of  the 
world economy, by which I mean the World Bank and, 
especially,  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Before, 
our economic policy was decided by those international 
institutions, which follow a model whose primary aim 
is the exploitation of our natural resources.
Fourthly,  another  important  theme  is  climate 
change,  which  has  become  one  of  the  most  serious 
problems  for  the  planet  and  for  humanity.  The  best 
way to combat climate change is through the policies, 
experience and traditions of the indigenous movement, 
which  are  based  on  solidarity,  complementarity  and, 
most  important  of  all,  a  lifestyle  in  harmony  with 
Mother  Earth.  For  indigenous  peoples,  the  paradigm 
of living well means living well with oneself, with our 
communities and in harmony with nature.
Fifthly, indigenous peoples need to be the actors of 
change, in accord with their own models of development, 
with  respect  for  the  social,  cultural,  economic  and 
judicial plurality of all peoples. We need to strengthen 
the links that unite us and to draw on our shared energy 
to build a culture of brotherhood, peace and life.
it 
imperative  for 
the 
Finally, 
Sixthly,  we  need  to  tend  and  protect  the  world’s 
agricultural  lands  and  forests  in  order  to  promote  the 
full  productive  potential  of  our  territories,  above  all 
those  that  belong  to  indigenous  peoples.  Indigenous 
peoples  must  likewise  strengthen  our  capacity  to 
feed all the nations of the world with our organic and 
ecological products.
is 
indigenous 
peoples  of  the  world  to  achieve  the  full  exercise  of 
their individual and collective rights to their land and 
territories. We need to overcome our limitations with 
regard  to  development  through  access  to  education, 
health care, water, waste disposal and all basic services. 
Thanks  to  the  economic  improvement  in  my  country 
and to the satellite systems we have installed, some of 
our  brothers  and  sisters  from  isolated  places  —  men 
and  women  who  had  never  even  seen  the  capital  city 
of  their  province  —  are  now  better  served  and  better 
connected, although not all of their demands have been 
fully met. It is difficult to meet everyone’s demands in 
a short time frame, but change has begun to come to the 
various communities of Bolivia. Before, there was no 
telephone, no potable drinking water and no electricity. 
There was no television and no radio. Now, more than 
80  per  cent  of  our  provinces  and  communities  have 
potable  water.  Telecommunications  reach  more  than 
90  per  cent.  The  major  weakness  remains  the  lack  of 
irrigation  systems.  Meeting  that  need  remains  one  of 
our responsibilities.
It  is  critical  for  all  the  world’s  Governments  to 
further  the  process  of  overcoming  and  eradicating 
the  conditions  of  extreme  poverty  and  discrimination 
that still affect indigenous peoples, as well as to find 
solutions  to  the  structural  problems  of  poverty  that 
many of those peoples still face. We have reduced the 
poverty rate from 38 per cent to 18 per cent, a historic 
record for Bolivia in terms of eradicating poverty.
Indigenous peoples have continuously resisted the 
processes  of  colonization  in  our  countries  and  have 
always preserved the culture of life. We have learned 
4/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
to live in harmony and equilibrium with Mother Earth, 
and  we  are  humanity’s  moral  reserve.  This  global 
conference should be the starting point for defining our 
collective  action  in  defence  of  life  and  for  launching 
a  process  of  transformation  and  change  based  on  the 
wisdom and science of our indigenous peoples, working 
directly  in  concert  with  the  technology  and  scientific 
advances of our time.
from country to country, but in all cases the objective 
should be to reach consensus in good faith. In Finland 
authorities are obliged by law to negotiate with the Sami 
Parliament,  the  representative  body  of  the  indigenous 
Sami people. Recently, the Finnish Government worked 
together with the Sami Parliament to expand the scope 
of the obligation to consult. The proposed reform spells 
out the concept of free, prior and informed consent.
Brothers and sisters, it is important, in the interest 
of  our  collective  freedom,  for  me  to  share  our  small 
experience after taking on the responsibility of working 
for  my  country.  We  have  to  free  ourselves  politically 
in order to free ourselves economically. The Assembly 
knows perfectly well that throughout history there have 
been various empires that have sought to dominate us 
politically in order to steal from us for their own gain. 
Happily, political liberation through a democratic and 
cultural  revolution  has  been  crucial  for  our  economic 
liberation  and  has  enabled  us  to  meet  our  people’s 
demands. I am grateful to the United Nations and the 
General  Assembly  for  the  opportunity  to  participate 
in  this  international  event  for  the  world  indigenous 
movement.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia for his statement.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic 
of Finland, who will speak on behalf of the Group of 
Western European and other States.
President Niinistö: I am honoured to address the 
first United Nations World Conference on Indigenous 
Peoples.  The  participation  of 
representatives  of 
indigenous  peoples  in  this  Conference  and  in  its 
preparations  makes  this  event  special  for  all  of  us.  It 
reinforces our joint commitment to the United Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples 
(resolution 61/295).
In  addition,  this  Conference  marks  an  important 
step in fulfilling a key recommendation made in Alta, 
Norway,  a  year  ago.  Indigenous  peoples  should  have 
the right to participate in matters concerning them at 
the United Nations. We look forward to the Secretary-
General’s proposals in that regard. In that context, we 
must express our concern over the reported attempts to 
prevent the representatives of indigenous peoples from 
Russia from joining us today.
Indigenous peoples’ participation in decision-making 
is vital also at the national level. Procedures may vary 
Today, as we recall the words of former Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan,  “Let  us  ensure  that  all  young 
people  have  every  opportunity  to  participate  fully 
in  the  lives  of  their  societies”,  we  are  witnessing  the 
important  role  being  played  in  this  Conference  by 
young  indigenous  delegates.  Indigenous  youth  must 
have the right, means and support to participate in their 
societies. To that end, access to education, information 
and  the  means  of  communication  is  essential.  In 
Finland  Sami  youth  have  taken  significant  steps  to 
improve 
their  cultural  and  political  participation 
through the establishment of the Sami Youth Council. 
Measures  to  revive  indigenous  languages,  including 
“language-nest” activities for children, have proved to 
be an efficient way to strengthen the identity of young 
indigenous people.
Finland’s  role  in  the  Arctic  is  defined  by  our 
geography,  and  our  Arctic  expertise  by  our  emphasis 
on 
sustainable  development  and  environmental 
considerations,  and  by  international  cooperation.  It 
is  essential  to  secure  the  welfare  of  people  living  in 
the  Arctic.  We  are  convinced  that  that  contributes  to 
economic  stability  and  enhances  competitiveness. 
Climate change has consequences for us all. We must 
address them together.
Industries  such  as  fishing,  herding,  hunting  and 
tourism  are  vital  to  Arctic  business  development  and 
to the livelihoods of the peoples in the Arctic. Finland 
is  very  pleased  with  the  establishment  of  the  Arctic 
Economic Council, two weeks ago in Iqaluit, Canada. 
Arctic  business 
indigenous  peoples 
are  working  together  to  facilitate  Arctic  business-
to-business  activities  and 
responsible  economic 
development.  Traditional  knowledge,  stewardship  and 
a focus on small businesses will play a central role in 
that work, which Finland will continue to support going 
forward. 
leaders  and 
The  Nordic  countries  have  a 
tradition 
the  Sami  and  Greenlandic 
of  cooperating  with 
cooperation 
representative 
is  vital  for  finding  common  solutions  to  common 
long 
bodies.  Cross-border 
14-54394
5/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
challenges. Internationally, we work together on issues 
such  as  biodiversity.  Cooperation  between  different 
stakeholders  is  not  without  challenges.  Only  true 
dialogue  with  all  the  relevant  stakeholders  will  yield 
solid results that are beneficial for all. For that reason, 
the voices of indigenous peoples must be heard also at 
the United Nations.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Finland for his statement.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  The  Honourable  Henri 
Djombo,  Minister  of 
the  Forest  Economy  and 
Sustainable Development of the Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Djombo  (Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in 
French): I have the honour of delivering this statement 
on behalf of the Group of African States.
I would like, at the outset, to express the African 
Group’s  congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kahamba  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
The  African  Group  is  delighted  to  see  that  the 
meetings of this important World Conference dedicated 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples  are  being  led  by  Uganda,  which, 
along  with  other  African  countries,  has  adopted  a 
comprehensive  and  progressive  approach  to  matters 
that concern indigenous peoples. We are also indebted 
to the President of the General Assembly at its previous 
session, His Excellency Mr. John Ashe. His persistence 
and leadership have ensured that this important meeting 
is  taking  place  under  the  most  favourable  possible 
conditions.
We wish to emphasize that the process that led to 
this important meeting was a constructive and inclusive 
one  and  that  it  upheld  the  relevant  provisions  of 
resolution 66/296, of 17 September 2012, which called 
in particular for active participation in this Conference.
The African Group would like at this point to convey 
its deep appreciation for the important contribution of 
indigenous peoples to the preparatory process for this 
World Conference. Since indigenous peoples are both 
the subject of the Conference and key players in it, their 
active participation has contributed to draft resolution 
A/69/L.1, to be adopted today and which reflects their 
valuable  contributions  and  recommendations.  How 
could we not recognize, in the large numbers of us in 
the General Assembly Hall, the very affirmation of our 
shared faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity 
and value of the human person and in the equality of 
the rights of men and women? Beyond those numbers, 
our common will to uphold the commitments contained 
in  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples is also illustrated here.
It is clear that the discussions we have had throughout 
the  preparatory  process  for  this  conference,  and  even 
before, revealed the richness of sympathies surrounding 
indigenous issues. In Africa, the indigenous issue that 
brings us together today could be aptly discussed in the 
light of the continent’s history, because the history of 
indigenous peoples varies from one region of the world 
to another and from one country to another. Today, the 
collective awareness has finally recognized the need to 
provide special protection to those communities, which 
have long been ostracized by discrimination.
For  nearly  a  decade,  African  countries  have 
embraced the cause of indigenous peoples and provided 
a  new  assurance  of  their  commitment  to  that  cause. 
We  recall  that  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  61/295),  of 
13  September  2007,  was  adopted  with  broad  support 
from  African  countries.  That  was  undoubtedly  a 
victory for justice and human dignity, after more than 
two  decades  of  negotiations  between  representatives 
of Governments and indigenous peoples. The African 
Group views its effective participation in this conference 
along the same lines.
Since then, the situation of indigenous peoples has 
gradually improved, and several African countries now 
acknowledge  the  existence  of  indigenous  peoples  in 
their territories as First Peoples groups, but ones who 
have historically been marginalized. Our Governments 
are  working  to  ensure  their  social  integration  and  to 
promote and protect their rights as full-fledged citizens, 
able to fully participate in the life of our nations with 
due respect for their culture and language. Protection 
and social integration are now a reality.
Following a consultative process that identified the 
factors,  causes  and  effects  of  discrimination  suffered 
by  indigenous  peoples  of  the  Congo,  the  Congolese 
Government  developed  a  domestic  law  standard  that 
reflects  the  Government’s  desire  to  implement  the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples. That is the law for the promotion and protection 
of indigenous peoples of 25 February 2011. Now, three 
years after its adoption, the effects of that law, seen as 
6/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
revolutionary and exemplary on the African continent, 
are noticeable.
In  order  to  flesh  out  the  law,  in  August  2013  the 
Congolese Government adopted a new national action 
plan to improve the quality of life of indigenous peoples. 
To  ensure  that  they  enjoy  the  dividends  associated 
with  the  use  of  natural  resources,  the  text  provides 
for  consultative  and  participatory  approaches  to  take 
into  account  the  free,  prior  and  informed  consent  of 
the  local  indigenous  populations  with  regard  to  the 
use of those resources. The standing provisions of that 
text  guarantee  the  strict  adherence  to  the  sustainable 
exercise of rights and cultural activities by indiginous 
peoples.
As we know, the way of life and practices of indigenous 
peoples  contribute  to  the  care  and  maintenance  of 
forest ecosystems and carbon sequestration. Therefore, 
my country calls on the international community and 
Governments  to  mobilize  the  necessary  means  to 
invest in the development of basic infrastructure near 
indigenous communities. That approach should include 
the  promotion  of  income-generating  activities  and 
payment for environmental services.
Moreover,  in  order  to  give  indigenous  peoples 
a  way  to  share  their  knowledge  and  their  skills,  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo  initiated  and  institutionalized 
the  International  Forum  on  Indigenous  Peoples  of 
Central  Africa  as  a  platform  for  integration  and 
cooperation in the Congo Basin on indigenous issues. 
That institution, which is located in northern Congo in 
the Likouala department, has become an integral part of 
the operational bodies of the Economic Community of 
Central African States. As elsewhere in Africa, through 
the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples, the 
objective  of  my  country  remains  the  establishment 
of  the  rule  of  law,  free  from  discrimination  based  on 
origin, ethnicity, way of life or culture.
The path of equality among the peoples is of course 
laborious  and  must  be  maintained  by  the  strong  will 
of  our  Governments.  African  countries  are  engaging 
in  that  effort  and  will  continue  to  work  with  the 
United Nations system and all initiatives aimed at the 
development of those marginalized peoples. Africa will 
continue to participate in the efforts of the international 
community to combat any affront to human conscience 
and will spare no effort to contribute to the promotion 
and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples. That 
is the commitment of our Governments.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the 
Republic of Estonia.
President  Ilves:  It  is  an  honour  to  address 
this  high-level  meeting  dedicated  to  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples.  As  a  member  of  an  indigenous 
people — Estonians have lived on our present territory 
for several thousand years — I am especially happy to 
see  among  participants  here  so  many  of  those  whom 
the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples is about. 
Therefore,  we  can  discuss  issues  faced  by  indigenous 
people together.
We  have  stood  on  both  sides  —  as  an  oppressed 
indigenous people and now as a Member of the United 
Nations.  We  know  what  indigenous  peoples  face. 
I  would  like  also  to  flag  at  the  very  outset  that  it  is 
unfortunate that the participation of indigenous peoples 
in United Nations forums is constantly questioned. It is 
incomprehensible,  if  not  to  say  bizarre  and  shameful, 
that some States attempt to hinder the participation of 
indigenous  peoples  and  offer  no  explanation  for  their 
actions. We hope that this will soon be a thing of the 
past  and  that  indigenous  peoples  will  have  a  strong 
voice in the international community.
I  recall  that  the  indigenous  peoples,  those  most 
directly  affected  by  the  provisions  of  the  outcome 
document  (draft  resolution  A/69/L.1)  we  are  to  adopt 
today,  could  not  participate  in  the  negotiations  on  it 
in  the  very  last  stages.  However,  I  believe  that  their 
input in the earlier stages provided a good basis for the 
joint ownership of the document. I am pleased that in 
the outcome document that we are about to adopt, we 
can  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples. 
It  includes  clear  deliverables  to  further  improve 
indigenous peoples’ rights, including stronger action by 
the United Nations. I hope that the outcome document 
will  serve  as  a  basis  for  the  way  ahead,  and  we  are 
looking forward to its swift implementation.
The rights of indigenous peoples must be respected. 
The great majority of States do so, voicing their support 
for the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. 
Estonia  has  also  voiced  such  respect.  Unfortunately, 
however,  in  many  countries,  material  gains  are  often 
prioritized  over  fundamental  rights.  It  is  crucial  to 
understand  that  the  cultural  heritage  of  indigenous 
peoples  is  a  form  of  wealth  that  clearly  outweighs 
14-54394
7/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
the  economic  profit  gained  by  the  extensive  and 
unsustainable exploitation of natural resources.
The reckless pursuit of profit at the expense of the 
cultures of peoples is precisely what we have witnessed 
in  many  Finno-Ugric  areas.  For  Estonians,  the  future 
of  Finno-Ugric  peoples,  with  whom  we  are  linked 
in  kinship  and  language,  is  particularly  close  to  our 
hearts.  We  know  and  have  felt  the  fear  of  extinction. 
We  have  observed  with  concern  that  Finno-Ugric 
populations  have  decreased,  while  the  sociopolitical 
activism  needed  to  improve  their  position  has  not 
always  corresponded  to  the  major  challenges  in  that 
area.  The  worst-case  scenario,  in  our  view,  would  be 
that  national  organizations  vanish,  their  leaders  be 
marginalized and the countries where they live become 
indifferent, claiming that, as such, indigenous peoples 
have  no  “perspective”,  to  use  a  phrase  that  we  know 
from the Soviet era. 
Urbanization, 
industrialization,  world  wars, 
deportations  and  extensive  migration  have  all  left 
deep  wounds  within  many  indigenous  populations, 
including,  for  example,  the  Votic  population,  our 
Finno-Ugric  cousins.  A  few  years  before  the  turn  of 
the  millennium,  the  construction  of  the  large  port  of 
Laugasuu  began.  It  is  being  built  on  traditional  Votic 
lands, where our cousins have lived for as long as we 
Estonians have lived on ours. That construction poses a 
great danger to the last three remaining Votic villages: 
Luutsa, Liivtšülä and Jõgõperä. 
The  construction  of  the  port  of  Laugasuu  is  in 
conflict  with  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples, but the current situation 
faced by the Votes is hardly unique. We all know that 
there is a long list of indigenous peoples living in the 
most challenging conditions. For example, side by side 
with the Votes lives another small Finno-Ugric nation, 
the Izhorians, who are especially threatened by the plan 
to erect a chemical plant right next to their villages of 
Rutsi and Viistina. If the chemical plant is erected and 
the environment devastated, the nation and the culture 
of  the  Votes  will  be  endangered  and  may  even  be 
destroyed. Mankind will grow ever poorer. 
To  support  our  kindred  nations,  the  Estonian 
Government launched the Kindred Peoples Programme 
in 1999. It is a Government aid programme to support 
the  indigenous  Uralic  languages  and  cultures.  It 
provides  support  in  five  different  fields  —  education 
and training courses, research, culture and information 
exchange,  health  care  and  the  protection  of  the 
environment.  For  many  years,  Estonian  experts  have 
contributed  to  the  Permanent  Forum  on  Indigenous 
Issues.  Our  Government  has  also  provided  financial 
support  to  the  United  Nations  Voluntary  Fund  for 
Indigenous Populations, and we shall continue to do so 
in the future. 
I  would  like  to  acknowledge  New  Zealand  for 
always including the Maori peoples in their delegation 
and meetings. I would like to thank Finland, Norway and 
Sweden  for  ensuring  the  presence  of  a  representative 
Saami  delegation  at  all  United  Nations  meetings  on 
indigenous peoples and for voicing their sincere concern 
about the future of indigenous peoples. I would like to 
associate myself with the statement made earlier by the 
President of Finland with regard to the inability of the 
Kola Saami to attend this meeting.
I  would  like  to  thank  Ukraine  for  supporting  the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples  (resolution  61/295)  and  for  recognizing  the 
Crimean Tatars as an indigenous people. I would like 
to  thank  the  many  other  countries  that  are  taking 
steps  to  improve  the  situation  of  indigenous  peoples. 
We  are  obliged  to  do  everything  that  we  can  to 
support  indigenous  peoples,  to  respect  their  past  and 
to  grant  them  a  future.  All  indigenous  peoples  must 
be  acknowledged,  no  matter  where  they  live,  be  it  in 
the  Leningrad  oblast,  Crimea,  Amazonas  State,  New 
Zealand, Arizona or the Scandinavian peninsula. Let us 
learn to listen to the voices that have been silenced for 
too long and that too often continue to be so. We cannot 
allow the persistence of a colonialist mentality to cover 
up  crimes  committed  against  indigenous  peoples,  nor 
can we continue to deny indigenous peoples the right to 
have a say over their own futures. 
In  conclusion,  the  former  Estonian  President,  the 
beloved writer and film-maker Lennart Meri, was one 
of those individuals who dared to listen to and to film 
such  peoples.  I  would  like  to  invite  members  to  the 
opening of an exhibition of photographs from his film 
and his journeys to the Finno-Ugric indigenous nations 
in the Conference Building today at 6 p.m. It is a fitting 
tribute to a great film-maker and a man who devoted 
his  life  to  showing  how  indigenous  peoples  live  and 
how they have suffered.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Estonia for his statement.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the United Mexican States.
8/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
President  Peña  Nieto  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
President  of  Mexico  and  as  the  representative  of  a 
multicultural  nation,  originally  founded  on  the  basis 
of  its  indigenous  peoples,  it  is  a  great  honour  for  me 
to participate in this World Conference. I come to this 
plenary meeting to affirm the ongoing commitment of 
Mexico to the protection and recognition of the rights 
and freedoms of indigenous peoples in all regions and 
countries of the world. I express my highest appreciation 
to the General Assembly for its decision in 2010 to hold 
this historic event, which is the first high-level meeting 
dedicated  exclusively  to  the  well-being  of  indigenous 
peoples. 
For Mexico, Latin America and the Caribbean, the 
indigenous issue is at the root of our identities and our 
historical, social and political circumstances. I mention 
that  because  of  the  linguistic  diversity  and  the  high 
number of indigenous peoples in Latin America and the 
Caribbean, who account for nearly 45 million people. 
However, I say it, above all, because of the commitment 
and  leadership  that  indigenous  women  and  men  have 
shown over the years to the recognition, protection and 
promotion of their rights.
For Mexico, it has been a great honour to contribute 
to  the  preparation  of  this  World  Conference  and  the 
negotiation  of  its  outcome  document  (A/69/L.1).  The 
major  objective  is  to  achieve  the  effective  exercise  of 
the rights of indigenous peoples in all nations. That is a 
very significant achievement and the result of an open, 
inclusive  and  constructive  dialogue  between  Member 
States  and  indigenous  representatives.  We  have  also 
taken care to ensure that their recommendations are in 
line with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights 
of  Indigenous  Peoples.  Mexico  trusts  that  the  final 
document will be a road map enabling us to reposition 
indigenous  issues  on  the  international  agenda  and 
to  give  renewed  impetus  to  the  actions  of  the  United 
Nations in that area.
The Mexican delegation appreciates the incorporation 
of several of the approaches it presented in favour of the 
indigenous  of  the  world,  including  the  following:  the 
post-2015 development agenda should ensure the rights 
of indigenous peoples; the participation of first peoples 
in the work of the United Nations should have a status 
distinct from that of non-governmental organizations; 
national  laws  should  be  harmonized  in  the  spirit  of 
the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples; 
and  the  Human  Rights  Council,  in  consultation  with 
indigenous  peoples,  should  monitor,  evaluate  and 
improve the implementation of the Declaration in each 
Member  State.  Mexico  would  like  to  see  those  ideas 
translated into concrete benefits for the estimated 5,000 
indigenous peoples in the world.
We have to continue working together. Inequality, 
injustice and discrimination against indigenous peoples 
are still, unfortunately, a grim reality. To eradicate those 
practices and enable indigenous peoples to assert their 
rights, we need to strengthen international cooperation 
and,  above  all,  intensify  actions  within  each  country. 
In Mexico, our Constitution recognizes and guarantees 
the  right  of  indigenous  peoples  and  communities 
to  self-determination  and  thus  to  the  autonomy  to 
decide  their  internal  forms  of  coexistence  and  social, 
economic,  political  and  cultural  organization.  It  also 
recognizes  their  right  to  preserve  and  promote  their 
culture,  traditions  and  customs  in  an  environment  of 
equality and non-discrimination.
For the more than 15 million indigenous people of 
Mexico  to  fully  exercise  those  rights,  the  State  relies 
on  a  cross-cutting  policy,  aimed  at  improving  their 
quality of life and the creation of greater opportunities 
for development. That policy includes specific actions 
to eradicate hunger and overcome extreme poverty in 
indigenous municipalities as well as the construction of 
basic infrastructure in their communities. Furthermore, 
the main programme to fight poverty, which serves more 
than 6 million persons of indigenous origin, has been 
redesigned  and  strengthened.  We  are  also  determined 
to support their integration in public education, health- 
care services and adequate housing. We also encourage 
their  access  to  justice  and  their  efforts  to  increase 
production and marketing of their products and crafts, 
with a focus on sustainability.
In  short,  the  Government  of  Mexico  supports 
indigenous  peoples  so  that  they  can  achieve  real, 
inclusive  development  and  improve  their  income  and 
quality of life, without losing their cultural identity or 
compromising the natural heritage of the country. In that 
regard, in accordance with international commitments, 
we  have  established  a  respectful  and  direct  dialogue 
with  various  indigenous  communities  in  order  to 
guide public policy and infrastructure projects in their 
areas  of  influence.  We  are  thus  ensuring  effective 
participation in the design of actions that promote their 
comprehensive development, with full respect for their 
self-determination.
The development initiatives of the United Nations 
deserve  the  combined  skills  and  experiences  of  all 
14-54394
9/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
countries,  because  only  together  can  we  realize  the 
goal  of  building  a  better  future  for  all  humankind.  It 
is  with  abiding  conviction  that  Mexicans  continue  to 
act with global responsibility within this international 
Organization, since it is the forum that best represents 
the  diversity  of  nations  and  the  shared  aspiration  to 
peace, development and prosperity for all the peoples 
of the world.
In  Mexico,  we  are  determined  to  build  a  true 
society of rights, in which all people, regardless of their 
ethnic origin, can exercise in their daily lives the rights 
and  freedoms  guaranteed  by  our  Constitution  and 
international treaties.
The President: I thank the President of the United 
Mexican States for his statement.
Pursuant to sub-paragraph 3 (b) of resolution 66/296, 
we will now hear statements by three representatives of 
indigenous peoples.
I now give the floor to Chief Oren Lyons, Chief of 
the Onondaga Nation Council of Chiefs.
Chief Oren Lyons: As we say in Onondagan, “Thank 
you  for  being  well”.  And  your  answer,  Mr.  President, 
is  “Yes,  what  you  say  is  true.”  The  responsibility  for 
speaking on behalf of indigenous people has been given 
me again. I shall do the best that I can on their behalf.
I  am  so  glad  to  see  all  the  people  here.  It  has 
been a long journey. I greet the Assembly with peace 
and  friendship,  and  a  question.  How  do  you  instruct 
7 billion people as to their relationship with the Earth? 
Until  they  learn  that  relationship,  we  are  imperilled 
as  a  species.  That  relationship  is  fundamental  to  our 
existence, and we have to understand that Nature is the 
authority and the final word. We are subject to every 
natural force in this world — water, for example, which 
is the first law of life.
We now have 7 billion people, soon to be 8 billion, 
soon  to  be  9  billion,  and  soon  to  be  10  billion.  Our 
children  are  going  to  suffer  the  consequences  of 
decisions that are made here today. The responsibility 
to future generations has been given to us; it was told to 
us many hundreds of years ago. We were set — we were 
advised — by the Great Peacemaker, when He said, 
“In  your  Council  for  the  welfare  of  the  people, 
think not of yourself nor your family nor even your 
generation. Make your decisions on behalf of seven 
generations hence”.
Those  layers  and  layers  of  humankind  awaiting 
their turn on Earth will be determined; their fate will 
be  determined  by  we  who  sit  here  today.  I  think  that 
the current generation is the generation that is going to 
make the decision as to whether or not we survive as a 
species.
Today 
I  bring  participants  greetings 
from 
indigenous people around the world. Let me repeat: we 
are the keepers of traditions, ceremonies, histories and 
the future of nations, and we are the ones who escaped 
your proselytization. We survived with the wisdom of 
the old ones. We are pleased to add our voices to others 
in the Assembly in this great effort for common sense 
and peace among nations.
I bring a most urgent message that was brought to 
our annual gathering of the Traditional Circle of Elders 
and Youth. This message was brought by a runner from 
the North, a traditional person from Greenland. He said: 
“The ice is melting”. He informed us that years ago  they 
had  noticed  trickles  of  water  coming  down  the  sheer 
face of Glacier Mountain, and that trickle has grown to 
a roaring river of ice water pouring out of the mountain 
into the Atlantic Ocean. Thousands of feet of ice have 
been  lost,  and  it  continues  to  melt  at  an  accelerating 
pace.  I  remind  the  Assembly  that  the  acceleration  is 
what we are dealing with. The compounding effect is 
that we are now fully engaged.
In  the  Assembly,  as  leaders  of  the  world,  as  a 
collective  voice,  we  join  this  mission  of  peace.  We 
add  our  presence  in  support  of  this  great  effort  for 
reconciliation between peoples and nations. We agree 
that there must be parity and equity between rich and 
poor  nations,  between  white  people  and  people  of 
colour,  and  rich  people  and  poor  people,  with  special 
attention  to  women,  children  and  indigenous  peoples. 
We, in our collective voices, add that there must be a 
reconciliation between peoples and the natural world, 
between  nation  States  and  the  forests  that  sustain  us, 
between corporations and the resources that they mine, 
the fish that they catch and the water that they use.
Indigenous  nations  and  peoples  believe  in  the 
spiritual  powers  of  the  universe.  We  believe  in  the 
ultimate  power  and  authority  and  limitless  energy 
beyond  our  comprehension.  We  believe  in  the  order 
of the universe. We believe in the laws of creation and 
that all life is bound by these natural laws. We call this 
essence the spirit of life. This is what gives the world 
the  energy  to  create  and  procreate  and  becomes  the 
10/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
ponderous and powerful law of regeneration — the law 
of the seed.
We,  in  our  collective  voices,  speak  to  this  to 
remind everyone that spirit and spiritual laws transcend 
generations.  We  know,  because  this  has  sustained 
us.  Religion  and  spirituality  are  vital  to  survival  and 
moral  law.  It  is  a  faith  that  has  sustained  our  human 
spirit  through  our  darkest  hours.  It  has  sustained  our 
human  spirit  in  times  of  crisis  during  the  times  we 
suffered  through  the  grinding  measures  of  inexorable 
persecutions 
that  have  spanned  generations  and 
continue today. Yet here we are today, adding our voices 
to this plea for sanity in leadership and responsibility to 
the future generations whose faces are looking up from 
the Earth, each awaiting their time of life here.
The collective voices of indigenous people add that 
we are saddened by the absence of many of our brothers, 
not allowed to be in the Assembly today. However, we 
believe  that  reconciliation  should  begin  at  the  United 
Nations because peace is an inclusive term. We include 
everyone, and peace and reconciliation is the purpose 
of  this  summit.  Peace  is  dynamic  and  requires  great 
effort  of  spirit  and  mind  to  attain  unity.  Leaders  of 
peace must step forward and take responsibility for a 
paradigm change in the direction of current lifestyles 
and  materialistic  societies.  The  human  species  has 
become  the  most  voracious  and  abusive  consumer  of 
Earth’s resources. We have tipped the balance against 
our children and their future and we imperil all life.
Despite  all  of  our  declarations  and  all  of  our 
proclamations,  no  matter  how  profound  they  may  be, 
the ice is melting in the North. We see the accelerations 
of the winds. We see the fires that are raging around the 
world,  insects  moving  northward,  the  Lyme  tick.  We 
are dealing with all this. And we see that the sun’s rays 
that provide us with light, energy and the very essence 
of  life  are  now  causing  sickness  among  our  people, 
blinding  animals  and  killing  the  plankton  of  the  sea. 
This is only the beginning and we are helpless already. 
We will now see the real power, the spiritual power of 
the Earth.
There can be no peace as long as we wage war upon 
our  mother,  the  Earth.  Responsible  and  courageous 
actions must be taken to realign ourselves with the great 
laws of nature. We must meet this crisis now, while we 
still have time. We offer these words as common peoples 
in support of peace, equity, justice and reconciliation. 
As we speak, the ice continues to melt in the North.
There  is  an  addendum  to  this.  I  gave  this  speech 
14  years  ago  in  this  very  Hall.  So,  what  have  we 
learned?  This  effort  for  me  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
indigenous  people,  I  thought,  well,  what  will  I  write 
now? I said, I do not need to write. I just need to repeat 
what we said to the Assembly 14 years ago — precious 
years that we have lost. So I urge the Assembly, I urge 
Member States, to listen to our voice. We are the pulse 
of  Mother  Earth.  We  have  experience  and  we  have  a 
lot  of  knowledge,  so  keep  our  languages.  The  United 
Nations might have to call on us again.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Aili 
Keshkitalo, President of the Sami Parliament of Norway.
Ms. Keshkitalo: It is indeed a great honour for me, 
as the President of the Sami Parliament of Norway, to 
address the General Assembly on this historic occasion 
today,  the  opening  of  the  World  Conference  on 
Indigenous Peoples. It has been a long journey for all of 
us: from December 2010, when the General Assembly 
decided that the World Conference should be held, until 
today’s  actual  opening  of  the  World  Conference.  The 
arduous journey within the United Nations to promote 
and  advance  indigenous  peoples’  rights  has  been 
an  inspirational  one,  and  yet  one  that  is  grounded  in 
pragmatism.
I sincerely thank all concerned who were involved 
in  the  process,  particularly  indigenous  peoples  in  the 
seven  indigenous  regions,  including  the  Indigenous 
Global Coordinating Group and Member States, for their 
tireless  efforts,  their  wisdom  and  their  collaborative 
spirit. We have had challenges in the process, including 
with  regard  to  indigenous  peoples’  participation,  due 
to reasons related to the rules of procedure and other 
matters.
Today,  my  thoughts  also  go  to  those  indigenous 
representatives  who  played  an  instrumental  role  in 
the  process  but  have  since  passed  away.  They  were 
our siblings, our teachers, our parents and our friends. 
Their contributions lie deep in our hearts, and we pay 
respect  to  their  memories.  I  am  sure  that  their  spirits 
are with us during these momentous days.
Indigenous  peoples  have  been  marginalized, 
discriminated against and ignored; but we have not lost 
heart,  struggling  for  many  decades  until  September 
2007,  when  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  was  finally  adopted 
by  this  apex  world  body.  It  was  a  historic  milestone 
and  a  triumph  for  justice  and  human  dignity.  The 
14-54394
11/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
challenge  now  remains  to  implement  the  provisions 
of  the  Declaration  by  closing  the  gap  between  theory 
and practice, between inspiration and reality, between 
commitment and implementation and between politics 
and good faith and sincerity.
Every  single  indigenous  regional  and  thematic 
caucus  has  contributed  to  that  process,  drawing  upon 
their respective struggles to halt the ongoing usurpation 
of  our  lands,  territories  and  resources;  eliminate 
discriminatory practices sometimes aimed at destroying 
our  cultures;  craft  solutions  to  halt  climate  change  in 
order to prevent the imposition of development models 
that destroy the life-giving capacities and integrity of 
Mother Earth; and maintain our identities, cultures and 
dignity and our social and political integrity.
One  gathering  in  a  small  city  in  the  traditional 
Sami  territory  within  Norway  became  the  epicentre 
of  the  indigenous  peoples  preparatory  process  —  the 
Global Indigenous Preparatory Meeting, held in Alta in 
June 2013. It was a gathering attended by approximately 
600 indigenous representatives from around the world, 
as  well  as  some  Governments  —  a  gathering  that  my 
Parliament was honoured to host. The Alta conference 
was momentous. It was the culmination, the end result, 
of a process that started at local and national levels, then 
went  regional  and  finally  global.  Indigenous  peoples 
from around the world mobilized resources and support 
and unanimously agreed on their common priorities.
The  city  of  Alta  is  significant.  It  is  where  many 
of  the  leaders  of  the  Sami  Kautokeino  Rebellion  of 
1852  were  sentenced  to  death  and  executed.  It  is  also 
the birthplace of Norway’s modern indigenous policy. 
The dispute about the hydroelectric development of the 
Alta-Kautokeino watercourse in the 1980s highlighted 
the  need  to  clarify  the  State’s  relationship  to  Sami 
people, including our legal position. That was the start 
of  a  process  that  led  to  the  State’s  recognition  of  the 
Sami as an indigenous people and the establishment of 
the Sami Parliament.
Indigenous  peoples  have  been  fighting  for  a 
very  long  time  to  be  recognized  as  “peoples”  under 
international law. As we know, article 3 of the United 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples (resolution 61/295) mirrors common article 1 of 
the two international human rights covenants of 1966. 
The right to self-determination is a fundamental right 
of  all  peoples,  which  includes  the  right  of  peoples  to 
decide  for  themselves  how  they  wish  to  engage  with 
other  peoples  and  with  the  international  community. 
The  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples 
recognizes that indigenous peoples are free and equal 
to all other peoples and that they have the right to be 
free from any kind of discrimination. We are not there 
yet, but we are slowly moving in the right direction.
I welcome the fact that the outcome document of the 
World Conference recognizes the urgent need to ensure 
that  indigenous  peoples’  representatives  and  their 
representative institutions are able to participate at the 
United  Nations  on  issues  affecting  them.  Indigenous 
peoples are ready to engage in discussions about how 
that can be achieved, and we look forward to studying 
the Secretary-General’s report on this matter during the 
seventieth session of the General Assembly.
I believe that the process leading up to the World 
Conference has demonstrated that indigenous peoples 
make important contributions to the work of the United 
Nations.  We  are  reliable  partners  that  engage  in  the 
work of the United Nations, and we do so in good faith 
and  expect  the  same  in  return  from  States  and  the 
United Nations. Make no mistake; indigenous peoples 
are here to help strengthen societies, by advancing our 
collective  rights  and  the  rights  of  our  elders,  women, 
youth,  children  and  disabled.  When  humankind 
harnesses the potential of indigenous peoples, we will 
all be more harmonious, more successful and more just.
If  there  is  anything  all  of  us  in  this  great  Hall 
should  learn  from  the  past  three  years,  it  is  that  the 
relationship among indigenous peoples, Member States 
and  the  United  Nations  can  be  mutually  respectful 
and  beneficial  when  carried  out  in  good  faith  and  in 
the  spirit  of  cooperation.  Indigenous  peoples  have 
suffered  —  and  still  do  —  from  historic  injustice  as 
the result of discrimination, colonization, invalid legal 
doctrines  and  dispossession  of  our  lands,  territories 
and resources, all of which has prevented us from fully 
exercising our rights, including our right to development 
in accordance with our own needs and aspirations. That 
is why we work so hard to advocate for our rights.
A Sami proverb says that “The night is not so long 
that  the  day  never  comes”,  which  essentially  means 
that  all  bad  things  will  eventually  come  to  an  end. 
The  adoption  of  the  outcome  document  of  the  World 
Conference  is  a  small  but  important  step  towards  the 
dawn of the day of indigenous peoples. What we have 
not  achieved  in  this  process,  we  will  pursue  in  the 
12/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
future,  at  the  national  and  international  levels,  with 
great determination in the spirit of cooperation.
We are committed to continuing to build a just and 
sustainable future for our coming generations. We shall 
advocate for what matters in the lives of our peoples, 
including  by  increasing  our  efforts  to  start  a  new 
chapter  of  international  cooperation  that  recognizes 
and  advances  our  rights,  while  fully  respecting  the 
rights  of  others.  This  is  the  time  when  we  —  States, 
indigenous peoples and other sectors of society — have 
no other, wiser choice but to continue to work together. 
This is the time when we must persist in realizing our 
common aspirations for human rights, justice, dignity, 
integrity,  cultural  identity  and  a  better  future  for  the 
entire world community.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Luis 
Evelis, Member of the Senate of Colombia.
Mr.  Evelis  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  wish 
to convey a very fraternal greeting to the President of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General,  Heads 
of State and Government, the various delegations and 
the indigenous peoples and their representatives at this 
Conference.
I  also  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
to  ensure  a  participatory  process  for  all  the  peoples 
and bodies that were invited to build a document that 
would establish a plan of action designed to ensure the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on 
the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  61/295). 
I  also  wish  to  highlight  the  work  done  by  the  Global 
Coordinating  Group,  particularly  the  important  role 
played in that process by Ms. Mirna Cunningham and 
Mr. Les Malezer.
I thank the members of the Andean Coordinator of 
Indigenous Organizations for giving me the honour of 
participating in this Conference. I would also point out 
that the outcome document of this summit (resolution 
69/2) is the result of an ongoing struggle of organizations 
and indigenous peoples and of their considerable ability 
to  debate  and  come  together.  I  therefore  urge  that  we 
pursue this dialogue not only at the national level, but 
also at the international level and in the United Nations 
framework.
I recognize the progress made by and the willingness 
of certain States and Governments to incorporate into 
their national legislation all international instruments, 
including the United Nations Declaration on the Rights 
of Indigenous Peoples. I also urge that all agreements 
reached  and  the  outcome  document  be  incorporated 
into  and  implemented  through  public  programmes 
and  policies  and  explicit  budgets  to  ensure  that  the 
indigenous peoples of Latin America and the world can 
enjoy their rights.
I would also like to state that while it may be true 
that  there  has  been  important  progress  made  in  the 
United Nations, it is necessary to make the aspirations 
of indigenous peoples much more concrete and to adopt 
their  paradigms  for  coexistence,  peace,  development 
and  well-being.  It  must  also  be  said  that  there  are 
great  lacunae  that  are  cause  for  much  concern.  As 
certain United Nations agencies and other international 
organizations have noted, indigenous peoples continue 
to be the poorest of the poor, despite so much legislation 
and some very advanced constitutions in certain parts 
of the world.
Indigenous  peoples  suffer  the  greatest  effects  of 
climate  change.  They  are  also  victims  of  and  suffer 
from all the consequences of a development model that 
leads to illiteracy, poverty and hunger. In many parts of 
the world, above all in our region, indigenous peoples 
have the most limited access to quality health care and 
education.  In  some  countries,  indigenous  peoples  are 
threatened  with  physical  and  cultural  extermination. 
We  have  also  seen  some  States  implement  reforms  to 
lower international standards with respect to indigenous 
rights,  particularly 
regarding  prior  notice,  self-
determination and free, prior and informed consent. 
We  note  that  some  sectors  within  indigenous 
groups  are  more  vulnerable,  including  women,  young 
people  and  children.  We  are  also  seeing  an  increased 
exodus of indigenous peoples to major cities, owing to 
a lack of opportunity in many countries. Against that 
background and recognizing the feelings of the Indian 
populations in some countries of the world, I want to 
suggest  the  following  recommendations  on  behalf  of 
the indigenous peoples of Latin America.
States  should,  after 
the  outcome  document 
contained 
in  draft  resolution  A/69/L.1  has  been 
adopted  and  on  the  basis  of  the  Declaration  and  the 
international  instruments  on  the  subject,  proceed  to 
incorporate all the relevant instruments and adopt them 
in their national legislatures. That should lead to public 
policy  initiatives  that  are  inclusive  as  well  as  capable 
of  distinguishing  and  attempting  to  resolve  the  gaps 
14-54394
13/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
that have been referred to by speakers and in the very 
valuable outcome document that we will approve today.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
In addition, States in the United Nations system and 
the international community must listen to indigenous 
peoples  and  pay  attention  to  their  paradigms  for 
development,  because  those  peoples  are  well  rooted 
in their relationship with Mother Earth and know that 
nature  itself  has  rights.  If  we  do  not  understand  that, 
I would be pessimistic as to the future well-being not 
just of indigenous peoples, but also of all of humanity. 
We  also  recommend  that  we  design  different  policies 
to  deal  with  all  of  the  difficulties  of  exclusion  that 
the  women,  young  people  and  children  of  indigenous 
communities suffer in all parts of the world. We need 
to  make  progress  in  terms  of  self-determination; 
free,  prior  and  informed  consent  is  necessary  for  any 
proposed  action.  It  is  important  that  we  not  just  look 
for economic growth indicators in those States, but that 
growth  also  be  reflected  in  living  well,  as  the  major 
indicator of overcoming poverty and of the well-being 
of indigenous peoples.
I  would  also  like  to  recommend  that  the  United 
Nations  system  continue  to  play  an  important  role  in 
building consensus when it comes to defining strategies, 
bringing  together  the  international  community,  the 
private  sector  and  multilateral  sectors  to  address  all 
situations of exclusion suffered by indigenous peoples. 
Indigenous  peoples  within  their  organizations  must 
themselves  be  encouraged  to  continue  to  fight  and 
work  to  put  forward  proposals,  because  the  future  of 
humanity is not just the future of the powerful and of 
Governments;  it  is  also  a  future  that  is  in  our  hands. 
Together  we  have  to  save  the  planet.  We  all  have  the 
opportunity to achieve that; there is room for everyone.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of resolution 66/296, I 
now give the floor to Mr. Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, High 
Commissioner for Human Rights.
Mr. Al Hussein: It is a great honour for me to join 
the General Assembly today at the World Conference 
on Indigenous Peoples. I see this as both a celebration 
and  a  call  for  action.  We  are  here  to  celebrate  the 
contributions  that  indigenous  peoples  make  to  our 
societies, as well as the progress that we have achieved 
towards the full recognition and respect for their rights, 
including  through  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples  (resolution  61/295).  But  we  are  also  here  so 
that States can commit to stronger action to close the 
gaps in implementation, gaps that continue to diminish 
the  impact  of  the  Declaration  and  other  human  rights 
standards and so that we can take action to strengthen 
our fight against the discrimination, exclusion and land 
grabs  that  indigenous  peoples  still  experience  in  all 
regions of the world. That action must demonstrate that 
our resolve to advance the rights of indigenous peoples 
is not simply rhetorical, but real.
A  proverb  of  the  Native  American  Hopi  tribe 
states,  “One  finger  cannot  lift  a  pebble”.  It  reminds 
us  that  alone,  we  can  achieve  very  little  —  perhaps 
hardly  anything  of  significance.  So  I  am  heartened 
by the strong and high-level engagement of numerous 
States  and  other  parties  in  the  preparations  for  this 
Conference and, in particular, by the very impressive 
commitment on the part of so many indigenous peoples. 
Their in-depth contributions, especially to the outcome 
document (A/67/994, annex) of the Global Indigenous 
Preparatory  Conference  in  Alta,  have  been  crucial.  I 
very much hope that in the future the United Nations 
will open its doors even wider to accommodate the full 
participation of indigenous peoples.
Many  representatives  in  the  Hall  today  have 
travelled from remote corners of the world. Some of the 
beneficiaries of the United Nations Voluntary Fund for 
Indigenous Peoples have travelled for up to seven days, 
taking  several  boats  and  flights  to  attend  this  event, 
in order to highlight the challenges their communities 
face,  for  many  challenges  remain.  Seven  years  after 
the adoption of the Declaration, specific disaggregated 
data on indigenous peoples are lacking. But the harsh 
imprint  of  poverty  and  marginalization  suffered  by 
indigenous peoples is clearly visible in all the available 
statistics.
In  developed  countries, 
the  percentage  of 
indigenous people in prison is highly disproportionate 
to their numbers. In one country, indigenous children 
were  25  times  more  likely  to  be  in  detention  than 
other  children.  In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
indigenous  children  are  three  times  more  likely  than 
others  to  have  no  access  to  education,  safe  drinking 
water  or  housing.  In  Africa  and  Asia,  indigenous 
young  adults  are  more  likely  to  be  deprived  of  their 
right to education, especially if they are female. In the 
Arctic,  the  Pacific  and  South-East  Asia,  indigenous 
women  are  at  greater  risk  of  dying  during  pregnancy 
14/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
or childbirth than women from other communities, and 
their newborns and young children are also more likely 
to die. Such stark statistics translate into thousands of 
human tragedies — thousands of violations of human 
rights.
This World Conference and its outcome document 
constitute the stepping stones that will bring our work 
on indigenous peoples’ rights to a new level. And as we 
do so, we must also recall the past. Recently, I learned 
about a story that I found very moving. For centuries, 
an  enormous  rock  that  resembled  a  large,  pale  bison 
stood by the South Saskatchewan River in Canada. It 
was a sacred gathering place for indigenous peoples on 
the vast plains. But in 1966, in order to accommodate 
the  construction  of  a  dam  and  an  artificial  lake,  that 
monumental rock was blown apart with dynamite. The 
waters rose and the jagged, broken pieces were covered 
in darkness. But last month, after a patient search, those 
pieces were found, deep under the waters. Once again, 
as their ancestors had done for generations, indigenous 
peoples  could  touch  the  remains  of  the  rock  and  feel 
through it their connection to their past.
The rock could not be reconstituted; its pieces will 
remain  under  water.  But  the  discovery  will  bring  the 
rock’s  story  to  life.  Generations  to  come  will  know 
where it is and what it has meant and continues to mean 
to  their  community.  Through  this  story,  I  understand 
that  what  has  been  done  is  done.  Often  it  has  been 
bitterly unjust. But the indigenous peoples of the world 
have shown us their strength, persistence and depth of 
wisdom. They possess clarity and knowledge. Standing 
here together we can look forward and build societies 
based on partnership, mutual respect and human rights.
At  this  World  Conference,  I  urge  Member  States 
to  once  again  pledge  to  ensure  that  the  human  rights 
and dignity of all indigenous peoples are acknowledged 
and fully protected, in line with the Declaration on the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples. I am confident that the 
draft  outcome  document  of  this  Conference  will  be 
adopted and will provide strong human rights tools to 
promote the full application of the Declaration.
The  constant  and  vigorous  engagement  of  human 
rights  mechanisms  is  vitally  important.  We  must 
also  make  sure  that  indigenous  peoples’  rights  are 
fully  embedded  in  all  other  international  initiatives 
that  affect  them.  The  new  post-2015  sustainable 
development  goals  must  be  explicitly  rooted  in  those 
rights, so that indigenous rights, lands and cultures can 
no longer be sacrificed in the name of skewed concepts 
of  development.  Indigenous  peoples’  concerns  and 
recommendations  will  also  be  vital  for  tomorrow’s 
Climate  Summit  and  for  the  2015  World  Conference 
on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction.  Natural  disasters  and 
the  effects  of  climate  change  are  often  borne  by 
indigenous peoples — and those peoples may also hold 
the traditional knowledge that can help mitigate these 
disasters.
But,  ultimately,  the  meaning  and  value  of  all  the 
international processes can be measured only in terms 
of  their  real  impact.  The  commitments  that  we  make 
here  and  at  other  conferences  must  be  followed  up 
decisively at the national and local levels with resources 
and political will that match the ambitions expressed in 
speeches. It is easy to be brave from a distance, as the 
proverb says. We need real impact.
I look forward to seeing national action plans and 
strategies in line with the objectives of the Declaration 
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, plans and strategies 
that  include  all  of  the  Declaration’s  principles:  self-
determination;  free,  prior  and  informed  consent;  the 
rights of indigenous women; respect for treaty rights; 
the rights of indigenous persons with disabilities; and 
many more.
I  call  on  States  to  develop  such  plans  in  full 
cooperation  with  indigenous  peoples.  There  must  be 
an  immediate  halt  to  the  intimidation,  persecution, 
violence  and  sometimes  death  that  advocates  for 
indigenous peoples continue to face in some countries 
when  they  take  up  the  legitimate  defence  of  their 
communities’ rights and lands. All those who seek to 
cooperate with the United Nations in the field of human 
rights must be free to do so. I am also very concerned 
about reports that some indigenous representatives have 
been  prevented  from  taking  part  in  this  conference. 
My Office, including its field presences, stands ready, 
together with our United Nations partners, to support the 
efforts of the international community and indigenous 
peoples,  building  on  the  work  that  we  are  already 
undertaking  in  close  cooperation  with  Governments 
and indigenous peoples in all regions.
This  World  Conference  has  the  potential  to  be  a 
milestone  in  our  quest  to  ensure  full  respect  for  the 
rights of indigenous peoples. I encourage all present to 
set  out  clear  goals  and  renewed  commitment,  so  that 
that quest can move forward.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of resolution 66/296, I 
14-54394
15/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
now give the floor to Ms. Dalee Sambo Dorough, Chair 
of the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous 
Issues.
to  uphold  the  Charter’s  purposes  and  principles  and 
thereby  strengthen  the  international  human  rights 
system as a whole.
Ms.  Dorough  (United  Nations  Permanent  Forum 
on  Indigenous  Issues):  First,  I  want  to  acknowledge 
the Onondaga Nation, original inhabitants of this land, 
and  thank  them  for  the  welcome  on  their  territory 
once again. I would also like to echo the comments of 
concern made by the Presidents of Finland and Estonia 
and,  just  now,  by  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  concerning  any  and  all  actions  to  disallow 
indigenous  peoples’  participation  in  this  gathering 
today. Hopefully, such actions will not continue in the 
future.
On behalf of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous 
Issues, I, too, want to welcome each of the participants 
to  the  United  Nations  and  this  significant  two-day 
high-level plenary meeting — a meeting that should be 
considered important for all indigenous peoples across 
the  globe.  Since  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption  of 
resolution  66/296  and  the  initial  discussions  by  the 
Government  of  Bolivia,  the  Forum  has  concerned 
itself  with  the  full,  effective  and  equal  participation 
of indigenous peoples in the preparatory processes for 
this  event.  Many  will  agree  that  the  preparations  for 
this gathering had a very slow start, causing indigenous 
peoples, including those who serve voluntarily as expert 
members of the Forum, to become deeply concerned at 
the uncertainty that was generated by lack of concrete 
United Nations action.
However, since 2011, the Forum’s expert members 
have generously provided space in the Forum’s agenda 
in order to build a spirit of partnership, inclusiveness 
and respect between Member States, indigenous peoples 
and United Nations agencies, funds and programmes. I 
believe  that  without  the  generosity  of  the  Forum  this 
process would not have taken the form or momentum that 
has collectively propelled us to this opening ceremony 
and our substantive programme for the afternoon and 
tomorrow.  I  genuinely  hope  this  spirit  of  partnership 
continues at the regional and national levels, and, more 
importantly, at the indigenous community level.
Indigenous peoples have spent the past few decades 
building genuine cooperation with States in good faith, 
consistent  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples is a strong testament to what can be achieved 
when  States  and  indigenous  peoples  strive  together 
At this moment, it is highly important for all of us 
not just to underscore the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations, but also to be mindful of 
the pertinent international legal obligations of Member 
States  in  relation  to  all  peoples,  including  indigenous 
peoples.  Specifically,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
peremptory norms of international law and in particular 
the  principle  of  and  right  to  self-determination,  as 
affirmed  in  the  Charter,  the  International  Covenants, 
the 1970 Declaration on Principles of International Law 
concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among 
States  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  (resolution  2625  (XXV))  and,  of  course,  the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples (resolution 61/295, annex).
Furthermore,  I  must  stress  that  even  though  the 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, as a 
whole, is not an expression of customary international 
law,
“some  of  its  key  provisions  can  reasonably  be 
regarded as corresponding to established principles 
of general international law, therefore implying the 
existence  of  equivalent  and  parallel  international 
obligations  to  [sic]  which  States  are  bound  to 
comply with ...
international 
“The  relevant  areas  of  indigenous  peoples’ 
rights  with  respect  to  which  the  discourse  on 
customary 
law  arises  are  self-
determination,  [the  right  to  self-determination  of 
indigenous peoples] autonomy or self-government, 
cultural rights and identity, land rights as well as 
reparation, redress and remedies.”
In addition to the objectives of the hastily negotiated 
outcome  document,  contained  in  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.1,  with  the  limited  and  carefully  controlled 
participation  of  indigenous  peoples  from  around  the 
globe, the peremptory norms of international law and 
customary international law principles remain essential 
and  constant  parameters  for  all  future  dialogue, 
negotiation  and  implementation  of  the  individual 
and  collective  human  rights  of  indigenous  peoples. 
Furthermore, the articulation of the right to free, prior 
and informed consent, and the continuing importance 
of indigenous peoples’ rights to their lands, territories 
and resources, remain urgent and necessary features for 
16/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
the  survival,  sustainability  and  vitality  of  indigenous 
peoples, nations and communities.
For  all  future  dialogue,  at  the  local,  national  and 
especially  international  level,  we  must  recognize  that 
consensus loses its validity if it is used to undermine 
the principles of justice, democracy, respect for human 
rights,  equality  and  non-discrimination,  as  well  as 
good  faith.  Good  governance  becomes  a  casualty  if 
a  few  States,  or  even  one  State,  can  undermine  such 
essential rights and principles at the international level. 
We must recognize that indigenous peoples are among 
the  most  vulnerable  and  disadvantaged  in  the  world. 
It  is  therefore  a  huge  injustice  if  they  are  severely 
undermined  by  a  highly  questionable  practice  that 
allows the lowest common denominator to prevail.
In  1993, 
former  Secretary-General  Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali underlined that “human rights constitute 
the  common  language  of  humanity”.  The  human 
rights  of  indigenous  peoples  must  not  be  politicized 
or  otherwise  undermined  by  local,  regional  and 
national State interests and agendas. They must rather 
be  respected  and  recognized  by  local,  regional  and 
national  Governments.  These  principles  and  human 
rights  are  universal.  They  do  not  stop  at  the  borders 
between  so-called  developed  and  developing  States. 
All States must consult and cooperate with indigenous 
peoples,  consistent  with  their  right  to  free,  prior  and 
informed consent, as well as related State international 
obligations,  including  those  pertaining  to  human 
rights,  the  environment  and  sustainable  and  equitable 
development.  This  high-level  plenary  meeting  should 
be remembered for its contribution through a principled 
outcome  document  —  a  document  that  must  be 
interpreted  against  the  backdrop  of  international  law, 
customary international law principles and in particular 
the  human  rights  affirmed  in  the  United  Nations 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
In conclusion, I call on Member States, guided by 
a  spirit  of  solidarity  and  partnership  with  indigenous 
peoples  and  consistent  with  their  international  legal 
obligations, as well as their political capacity, to provide 
support  for  effective  implementation  of  the  outcome 
document and its mutually agreed terms for cooperation 
within the framework of the United Nations Declaration 
on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples.  Finally,  let  us 
ensure that we are guided not only by legal imperatives 
and  international  legal  obligations  but  also  by  moral 
imperatives.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the opening session of the high-
level  meeting.  I  should  now  like  to  consult  members 
with a view to giving the floor to the indigenous leader 
and  Nobel  laureate  Ms.  Rigoberta  Menchú.  If  there 
is no objection, may I take it that it is the wish of the 
General Assembly, and without setting a precedent, to 
invite Ms. Menchú to make a statement at this meeting?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with the decision just taken, I now give the 
floor to Ms. Menchú.
Ms. Menchú (spoke in Spanish): Today is a sacred 
day in the Mayan calendar, celebrating the seven energies 
of  Ahau  Ahpu.  Ahpu  is  the  strength  of  the  human 
being, of every man and woman living on our planet. 
Ahpu  reminds  us  that  we  are  also  children  of  oxygen 
and Mother Earth, and with that observation I begin my 
contribution to the General Assembly at its first high-
level  meeting  on  indigenous  peoples.  I  would  like  to 
thank the Secretary-General for enabling the Assembly 
to host this meeting, and I hope it will culminate in the 
adoption of a draft resolution (A/69/L.1) that promotes 
the rights and dignity of indigenous peoples.
First,  it  was  in  1923  that  our  brother  Deskaheh 
travelled to the League of Nations to ask to be able to 
participate fully and actively within the organization. 
He did not succeed, but he set a precedent. 
Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  23,  I  had  the  good 
fortune  to  participate  in  the  inaugural  meeting  of  the 
Working  Group  on  Indigenous  Populations,  at  which 
indigenous  peoples  began  a  strong  petition  within 
the  United  Nations.  We  are  grateful  to  that  Working 
Group, to which we pay tribute today, for having moved 
forward the debate on the rights of indigenous peoples. 
Since 1982, when the Working Group began its work, 
the United Nations has seen hundreds of thousands of 
delegations of men and women. As a result, we saw the 
establishment  of  the  Permanent  Forum  on  Indigenous 
Issues,  which  led  to  the  adoption  of  the  Indigenous 
and  Tribal  Peoples  Convention,  1989  (No.  169),  by 
the  International  Labour  Organization.  That  gave 
rise  to  the  participation  of  indigenous  peoples  at  the 
World  Conference  on  Human  Rights,  held  in  Vienna 
in  1993,  where  a  programme  of  action  that  provided 
for the establishment of the first International Decade 
of Indigenous Peoples. I recall all the aforementioned 
events  because  we,  as  indigenous  peoples,  remember 
14-54394
17/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
everything that we have been through, and the history 
of the world is reflected in our intensive efforts and the 
many United Nations resolutions.
Today, we are once again witnessing extraordinary 
progress,  not  only  in  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples 
but also in the common language to define those rights. 
That is why we fully support the adoption of the draft 
resolution  at  this  World  Conference  on  Indigenous 
Peoples  (A/69/L.1),  which  will  once  again  strengthen 
not  only  our  struggles  but  also,  above  all,  the  action 
plans for, on the one hand, indigenous peoples and, on 
the other, for nations or nation States. We would like to 
say  that  the  progress  made  with  regard  to  indigenous 
peoples  has  made  it  possible  for  many  millions  of 
indigenous  peoples  to  reaffirm  their  identity,  their 
rights and their existence.
Today,  however,  I  speak  on  behalf  of  the  young 
people,  the  children  and  those  thousands  of  millions 
of  our  brothers  who  still  suffer  from  hunger,  poverty 
and  malnutrition  and  the  effects  of  the  daily  violence 
that they experience in their communities, villages and 
lands in order to protect their seas, rivers, waters and 
land. I am here because I believe that indigenous peoples 
and their young people and children have the right to a 
future. That is why we need once again to agree on the 
outcome document that we hope the General Assembly 
will adopt in a few minutes.
For  us,  peace  means  freedom,  mutual  respect, 
common  interest  and  consultation.  For  us,  peace  is 
listening to the various views, because we are part of 
one diversity. As has already been noted, it is a great 
responsibility  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  indigenous 
peoples  today.  That  is  why  I  also  appeal  to  all 
indigenous peoples and their leaders to ensure that they 
act with full responsibility and that, above all, we set as 
a priority the fundamental interests of our communities 
and our peoples.
We  therefore  have  gathered  today  to  celebrate 
such progress. We can see the future. We have success 
stories.  That  is  why  there  is  the  Declaration  on  the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples,  which  has  also  been 
discussed  for  several  decades.  I  would  like  to  pay 
tribute to the hundreds of thousands of indigenous men 
and women who have lost their lives since the debate on 
their rights began in the United Nations in August 1982. 
Since that time, indigenous communities have suffered 
the  most  serious  human  rights  violations,  including 
genocide,  ethnic  crimes,  fratricide  and  gender-based 
crimes.  Those  concepts  are  still  not  included  in  the 
draft resolution. However, we must set a precedent so 
that in the Assembly we can strengthen the observance 
and monitoring of international mechanisms, above all, 
those  that,  together  with  members  and  the  peoples  of 
the world, we have established and adopted.
Uncertainty  still  prevails  among  our  peoples 
in  the  area  of  health,  because  health  is  essential  for 
all  humankind.  However,  for 
indigenous  peoples 
in  particular,  health  means  their  overall  well-being 
and  does  not  relate  only  to  pain  and  suffering  in 
one  part  of  the  body.  We  must  include  the  existing 
technologies  of  indigenous  peoples  in  comprehensive 
development  plans.  It  is  essential  to  incorporate  the 
science  and  knowledge  of  indigenous  peoples  in  the 
area  of  education.  Today,  we  need  to  adopt  a  new 
approach  to  education  in  a  multicultural  context,  not 
merely  an  education  that  reproduces  the  paradigms 
of  colonialism  or  subjugation.  We  need  to  combat 
racism and discrimination head on, because racism and 
discrimination are emotional habits and mental ills that 
undermine the integrity of the human being. We must 
also strengthen our legitimate, full, active and focused 
participation in programmes of work that are relevant 
to us, both within the bodies of the United Nations and 
in public policies at the national level.
We  congratulate  our  brothers  and  sisters  who 
first  courageously  came  to  speak  to  the  international 
community. They denounced crimes against humanity. 
They made it clear that humankind breathes the oxygen 
of  our  Mother  Earth.  Without  them,  our  overall  well-
being would have been completely undermined.
During the 34 years that I have had the good fortune 
to  be  connected  with  the  United  Nations,  I  have  seen 
not  only  developments  but  also  frustration,  since  the 
greatest problems can be found among the millions of 
indigenous people living in mountainous areas and in 
communities that are still not connected by roads. They 
still have access only to a small amount of information, 
not the technology that humankind talks about today.
We  peoples,  like  all  peoples  who  have  suffered 
from  slavery  and  subjection,  are  like  all  men  and 
women  who  have  suffered  violence  against  their  own 
flesh.  Nevertheless,  they  have  the  strength  to  shine  a 
light and share it with others. If indigenous peoples are 
able to achieve their freedom and, above all, their self-
determination, then all international norms will lead to 
dignified policies at the national level. It is not possible 
to understand indigenous rights if you do not see them 
as being part of the daily life of our populations. That 
18/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
is why this is a new opportunity for us to open common 
space for reciprocity, mutual respect, the fullness of life 
and the future of all of humankind.
Declaration  and  to  report  to  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventieth session, through the Economic and Social 
Council, on progress made.
I see a lot of young faces here. These young people 
greatly inspire us. They come from the various nations 
of  the  world,  and  they  include  many  young  leaders.  I 
pay tribute to Mexico, which has gone to great lengths 
to  promote  the  draft  resolution  that  we  are  going  to 
adopt, but I would also pay tribute to our brother Evo 
Morales,  who  leads  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia 
and  very  many  other  fights  that,  in  years  past,  when 
we  were  younger,  seemed  to  be  impossible  to  fight. 
I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  young  people  in  the  various 
diplomatic missions here at the United Nations. When 
I  walked  through  the  United  Nations  corridors  with 
a  police  escort,  a  lot  of  those  present  here  were  a  lot 
younger than they are now.
I am a Nobel Peace Prize laureate. I was the first 
Ambassador of the first International Year of Indigenous 
Peoples  in  1993,  I  was  appointed  by  the  Secretary-
General  at  the  time,  Mr.  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  and 
he  gave  me  the  opportunity  to  visit  the  29  nations  of 
the  world  where  indigenous  people  live.  Today  I  see 
them represented here, and I am very proud of that fact, 
because I can see that the way is open. We have to build 
it together. Peace is life. Peace is education and peace 
is culture.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/69/L.1. I now give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat.
Mr. Gettu (Department for General Assembly and 
Conference  Management):  In  connection  with  draft 
resolution A/69/L.1, entitled “Outcome document of the 
high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
known  as 
the  World  Conference  on  Indigenous 
Peoples”, I wish to put on record the following statement 
of  financial  implications  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under the terms of paragraphs 31 and 40 of draft 
resolutions  A/69/L.1,  the  General  Assembly  would, 
first, request the Secretary-General, in consultation and 
cooperation with indigenous peoples, the Inter-Agency 
Support  Group  on  Indigenous  Peoples’  Issues  and 
Member  States,  to  begin  the  development,  within 
existing  resources,  of  a  system-wide  action  plan  to 
ensure a coherent approach to achieving the ends of the 
Secondly, it would request the Secretary-General, 
in  consultation  with  the  Inter-Agency  Support  Group 
and Member States, and taking into account the views 
expressed  by  the  indigenous  people,  to  report  to  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  on  the 
implementation  of  the  draft  resolution  and  present 
options  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session,  through  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
including  recommendations  regarding,  first,  using 
modified  and 
improved  existing  United  Nations 
mechanisms to achieve the aims of the United Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  People; 
secondly,  ways  to  enhance  a  coherent,  system-wide 
approach to achieving the ends of the United Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples;  and 
thirdly,  concrete  proposals  to  enable  the  participation 
of indigenous peoples’ representatives and institutions, 
building on the Secretary-General’s report on ways and 
means of promoting participation in the United Nations 
of  indigenous  peoples’  representatives  on  the  issues 
affecting them (A/HRC/21/24).
The  requested  activities  referred  to  in  the  draft 
resolution  related  to  paragraph  1  of  the  biennial 
programme plan and priorities for the period 2014-2015 
(A/67/6/Rev.1) and section 2 of the programme budget 
for  the  biennium  2014-2015,  “General  Assembly  and 
Economic  and  Social  Council  affairs  and  conference 
management”.
Pursuant  to  paragraphs  31  and  40  of  the  draft 
resolution, 
the  request  for  documentation  would 
constitute an addition to the documentation workloads 
of the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management  of  two  pre-session  documents  of  8,500 
words  each  in  all  six  languages.  This  would  entail 
additional  requirements  in  the  amount  of  $100,800 
for  documentation  service  in  2015.  As  additional 
conference- 
requirement  of  $100,800 
for  2015  under  section  2,  “General  Assembly  and 
Economic  and  Social  Council  affairs  and  conference 
management”, would be required under the programme 
budget  for  the  biennium  2014-2015  to  implement  the 
additional  workload.  No  provision  has  been  made  in 
the  programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2014-2015 
for  the  implementation  of  the  activities  requested 
under  paragraphs  31  and  40  of  the  draft  resolution. 
At  the  current  stage,  it  is  not  possible  to  identify 
servicing 
14-54394
19/21
A/69/PV.4 
22/09/2014
activities within the section of the programme budget 
for  the  biennium  2014-2015  that  could  be  terminated, 
deferred, curtailed or modified during the biennium. It 
is therefore necessary that additional resources in the 
amount of $100,800 be provided through an additional 
appropriation for the biennium 2014-2015.
It  may  be  recalled  that,  under  the  procedures 
established by the General Assembly in its resolutions 
41/213  and  42/211,  a  contingency  fund  is  established 
for  each  biennium 
to  accommodate  additional 
expenditures  derived  from  legislative  mandates  not 
provided for in the programme budget for those years. 
If additional expenditures were proposed that exceeded 
the resources available from the contingency fund, the 
activities concerned will be implemented only through 
the redeployment of resources from low-priority areas 
or  the  modification  of  existing  activities.  Otherwise, 
such additional activities would have to be deferred to 
later in the biennium.
Should the General Assembly adopt draft resolution 
A/69/L.1, it is estimated that an additional appropriation 
of $101,800 would be required. It is anticipated that this 
requirement  cannot  be  met  from  within  the  resources 
of the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015. 
Accordingly,  the  General  Assembly  is  requested  to 
approve  an  additional  appropriation  representing  a 
charge  against  the  contingency  fund  in  the  amount 
of  $101,800  under  section  2,  “General  Assembly  and 
Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference 
Management,”  in  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2014-2015.
The attention of the General Assembly is therefore 
drawn  to  the  present  statement  of  programme  budget 
implications.  During  the  main  part  of  the  sixty-
ninth  session,  the  Fifth  Committee  will  examine 
both  a  detailed  statement  of  the  programme  budget 
implications  arising  from  the  draft  resolution  and  the 
report  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions thereon.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/69/L.1,  entitled  “Outcome  document  of  the  high-
level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known 
as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples”. May I 
take it that the General Assembly wishes to adopt draft 
resolution A/69/L.1?
Draft resolution A/69/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
69/2).
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give the 
floor to the observer of the Observer State of the Holy 
See for a statement.
Monsignor  Urbanczyk  (Holy  See):  First,  I  wish 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  convening  this  high-
level plenary meeting of the General Assembly, known 
as  the  World  Conference  on  Indigenous  Peoples.  My 
delegation has worked hard in a constructive way and 
in a spirit of goodwill to make the outcome document 
(resolution  69/2)  a  success.  On  the  other  hand,  my 
delegation would be remiss in its duty if it did not point 
out areas where it strongly disagrees with the text. In 
that regard, my delegation wishes to make the following 
reservations on paragraph 13 of the resolution.
With  reference  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
and  so-called  reproductive  rights  and  other  language 
on  which  the  Holy  See  registered  reservations  at  the 
United Nations International Conference on Population 
and  Development  (ICPD)  and  at  the  Fourth  World 
Conference on Women, we reiterate these reservations 
as set out more fully in the report of the ICPD and in 
the  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action.  In 
particular,  the  ICPD  rejects  recourse  to  abortion  for 
family planning and denies that it creates any new rights 
in this regard. My delegation will continue to respect 
and promote the rights of the indigenous peoples.
Finally,  my  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate the long-standing commitment of the Holy See 
to promoting the integral development of the more than 
370 million indigenous people in the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  wish 
to express my sincere thanks to Ms. Marjon Kamara, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Liberia,  and  Mr.  Andrej 
Logar,  Permanent  Representative  of  Slovenia,  who 
so  ably  and  patiently  conducted  the  discussions  and 
complex  negotiations  in  the  informal  consultations  in 
order  to  bring  them  to  a  successful  conclusion.  I  am 
sure that members of the Assembly join me in extending 
our sincere appreciation.
Representatives  are  reminded  that  the  first  and 
second interactive round tables will be held concurrently 
this  afternoon  at  3  p.m.  in  Conference  Room  4  in 
the  General  Assembly  Building  and  the  Trusteeship 
Council Chamber, respectively.
Interactive round table 1, entitled “United Nations 
system  action  to  implement  the  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples”,  will  be  co-chaired  by  Her  Excellency 
20/21 
14-54394
22/09/2014 
A/69/PV.4
Mrs.  Edita  Hrdá,  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Czech Republic to the United Nations, and Mr. Ghazali 
Ohorella,  Representative  of  the  Pacific  Indigenous 
Region.
Interactive  round  table  2,  entitled  “Implementing 
the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  at  the  national  and 
local  level”,  will  be  co-chaired  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. David Choquehuanca, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  and  Mr.  Joseph 
Ole Simmel, Representative of the African Indigenous 
Region.
The third interactive round table and the interactive 
panel  discussion  will  be  held  concurrently  tomorrow 
afternoon  at  3  p.m.  in  the  North  Lawn  Building  in 
Conference  Room  4  and  the  General  Assembly  Hall, 
respectively.
Interactive  round  table  3,  entitled  “Indigenous 
peoples’  lands,  territories  and  resources”,  will  be 
The 
interactive 
co-chaired  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pita  Sharples, 
Minister of Maori Affairs of New Zealand, and Ms. Joan 
Carling, Representative of the Asia Indigenous Region.
entitled 
“Indigenous  priorities  for  the  post-2015  sustainable 
development agenda” will be co-chaired by Ms. Patricia 
Balbuena,  Vice-Minister  for  Interculturality  of  Peru, 
and Ms. Jannie Lasimbang, Representative of the Asia 
Indigenous Region.
panel 
discussion 
I wish participants profitable discussions.
I  would  like  to  express  special  thanks  —  I  think 
we  all  do  —  to  two  people:  Ms.  Mirna  Cunningham 
and Mr. Les Malezer, who have been at the service of 
this historic meeting. They have been at the service of 
all representatives of indigenous peoples. Once again, I 
wish participants very profitable discussions.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
14-54394
21/21
