United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
18th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 September 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Masood Khan 
(Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Djibrill Ypènè Bassolé, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Regional Cooperation of Burkina Faso.
I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  thoughtful  focus  on 
peace and social and economic development around the 
world, especially in Africa. In that regard, I welcome 
his  initiative  in  holding  last  week’s  Climate  Summit 
in New York, aimed at persuading Heads of State and 
Government  and  representatives  of  local  authorities, 
the  private  sector  and  civil  society  of  the  urgent  and 
compelling need for them to declare their contributions 
to the fight against climate change in firm and concrete 
terms.
Mr. Bassolé (Burkina Faso) (spoke in French): Every 
year, the General Assembly gives us the opportunity to 
get together to discuss our concerns in the various parts 
of  the  world.  Here  we  are,  meeting  again  to  evaluate 
what  has  been  accomplished  and  to  consider  new 
solutions to the many challenges confronting our shared 
responsibility.  And  Burkina  Faso  is  committed,  as 
always, to participating in this important get-together, 
the symbol of international solidarity.
Burkina  Faso  also  reiterates  its  commendation  of 
the  joint  visit  to  the  Sahel  by  the  Secretary-General, 
the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, the 
President of the World Bank, the President of the African 
Development  Bank  and  the  European  Commissioner 
for  Development  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations integrated strategy for the Sahel, which aims to 
promote  security,  good  governance,  development  and 
human rights as factors of peace and stability.
like 
I  would 
to  express  our  gratitude 
to 
President  Kutesa’s  predecessor,  Ambassador  John 
Ashe, for his positive record during his tenure. I also 
heartily  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election, 
and I am confident that his wealth of experience with 
international  and  development 
issues  will  enable 
him  to  effectively  guide  our  work  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda, in order to formulate an ambitious 
new framework for development aimed at bringing our 
peoples growth, fairness and a better life. 
Lastly,  Burkina  Faso  welcomes  the  Assembly’s 
adoption  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Ebola  initiative 
(resolution  69/1)  and  welcomes  his  appointment  of 
Mr.  David  Nabarro  as  Senior  United  Nations  System 
Coordinator for Ebola Virus Disease and Mr. Anthony 
Banbury as his Special Representative and Head of the 
United Nations Mission on Ebola Emergency Response. 
These  steps  will  certainly  help  the  West  African 
subregion  to  strengthen  its  public-health  systems  in 
order  to  eradicate  the  epidemic,  whose  spread  could 
permanently  compromise  the  area’s  social  cohesion, 
development  and  economic  integration.  Burkina  Faso 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55187 (E)
*1455187*
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
would like to express its sympathy and solidarity with 
the affected countries, and it reiterates its commitment 
to  participating  in  the  quest  for  a  collective  solution 
that can ensure effective protection for the people and 
for health personnel, as well as the free movement of 
people and goods within the Economic Community of 
West African States (ECOWAS).
Today we can celebrate the progress made in efforts 
to achieve and maintain peace, as well as to achieve our 
development  goals,  despite  the  fact  that  there  is  still 
work to be done to speed up improvement of our people’s 
living conditions. In Burkina Faso, notwithstanding our 
unfavourable geographical and climatic conditions and 
a difficult international economic environment, we are 
committed, with determination and realism, to building 
development. In the last few decades, therefore, we have 
established  and  implemented  strategic  development 
programmes  and  plans  designed  to  put  our  country 
firmly  on  the  road  to  emergence.  Poverty  reduction, 
the  empowerment  of  women  and  full  employment  for 
young  people  are  some  of  our  main  objectives.  For 
several years consecutively those efforts have enabled 
Burkina Faso to record average annual growth rates of 
around 5 per cent and achieve significant investments 
in  a  number  of  areas  that  include  health,  education, 
agriculture, and water, road and energy infrastructures.
Clearly, development efforts cannot thrive without 
a  stable,  peaceful  environment.  To  that  end,  our 
President, Mr. Blaise Compaoré, and the Government 
of Burkina Faso continue to work to entrench a culture 
of  tolerance  and  peaceful  coexistence  that  seeks  to 
establish,  through  dialogue  and  consultations,  the 
essential  elements  of  social  cohesion,  a  strengthened 
democratic  process  and  respect  for  individual  and 
collective liberties. 
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Burkina  Faso  continues  to  set  a  good  example  by 
making  the  promotion  and  defence  of  human  rights  a 
major focus of its Government policy on improving the 
people’s welfare. That has been the context for the work 
of Mrs. Chantal Compaoré, a goodwill ambassador for 
the  Inter-African  Committee  on  Traditional  Practices 
Affecting  the  Health  of  Women  and  Children,  whose 
commitment to dealing with the issue of female genital 
mutilation is an important contribution to global efforts 
to protect the rights of women and girls. Burkina Faso 
welcomes the Human Rights Council’s recent adoption 
of a draft resolution on “Intensifying global efforts and 
sharing good practices to effectively eliminate female 
genital mutilation” , submitted by the African Group at 
Burkina Faso’s initiative.
We  are  following  with  concern  the  crises  and 
conflicts  that  unfortunately  continue  to  plague  parts 
of  the  world,  particularly  the  African  continent. 
However, under the auspices of ECOWAS, we welcome 
the  significant  progress  made  over  recent  months 
in  restoring  peace  and  democracy  in  West  Africa, 
especially in Guinea-Bissau and Mali. 
With respect to Mali, ECOWAS mediation brought 
about  the  restoration  of  constitutional  order  and  the 
holding of free and fair elections throughout the national 
territory. For the continuation of the peace process in 
Mali, Burkina Faso welcomes and supports the efforts 
of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria in the 
search for a lasting peace solution in accordance with 
the  Preliminary  Agreement  signed  in  Ouagadougou 
on 18 June 2013. That Agreement’s ultimate goal is to 
restore  peace,  the  territorial  integrity  of  Mali  and  of 
the  ECOWAS  region,  and  cohesion  among  all  Malian 
communities,  in  order  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
harmonious development and subregional integration. 
In  Mali,  as  elsewhere  in  the  Sahel  subregion, 
armed  conflicts  are  becoming  more  complex  and 
more  radicalized  because  of  the  emergence  of  violent 
extremism  and  terrorism  closely  associated  with  the 
criminal economy, which is characterized, inter alia, by 
trafficking in drugs, weapons and human beings. Those 
evils  challenge  us  in  our  shared  responsibility  in  the 
fight to eradicate them. It is more urgent than ever to 
work together by focusing on preventive measures and 
addressing their root causes, namely such predisposing 
factors as extreme poverty, youth unemployment, and 
the denial of rights and justice. 
Similarly,  it  is  important  to  strengthen  the  rapid- 
response  capabilities  of  our  States  and  international 
cooperation  in  the  exchange  of  information,  in  order 
to  allow  our  defence  forces  and  security  to  fight 
effectively  against  terrorist  threats.  In  that  regard, 
Burkina Faso expresses its deep gratitude to all partner 
countries,  especially  France  and  the  United  States  of 
America, whose contribution to the efforts to secure the 
Sahel is priceless. We would now like to reiterate our 
total solidarity with and full support for the people and 
Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which 
continue  to  face  the  unprecedented  rise  of  terrorism 
and religious intolerance. 
2/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
Other African countries are also experiencing crisis 
situations.  We  are  thinking  in  particular  of  Somalia, 
Libya,  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Congo  and  the  Sudan.  With  respect  to 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Burkina  Faso  salutes 
the  efforts  of  the  international  mediator,  President 
Sassou Nguesso, and welcomes the Brazzaville Forum, 
which  concluded  with  an  agreement  on  the  cessation 
of  hostilities.  My  country  supports  the  Transitional 
Government,  welcomes  the  effective  establishment 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic 
and  reiterates  its  readiness  to  contribute  to  efforts  to 
restore and keep peace in Central Africa. 
In the light of all these crises, Burkina Faso would 
emphasize the urgent need to restore and maintain an 
environment  of  peace  and  stability  in  the  countries 
concerned,  without  which  our  development  and 
integration efforts will be in vain. In that context, no 
effort  should  be  spared  to  protect  peacekeepers  who 
risk their lives working to provide security and comfort 
to  civilians.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  reiterate  our  strong  condemnation  of  intentional 
attacks against all United Nations troops in theatres of 
peacekeeping. 
As  it  always  has,  Burkina  Faso  will  continue  to 
participate  in  the  collective  action  of  peacekeeping 
in  countries  in  difficulty,  in  particular  Darfur,  Mali, 
Guinea-Bissau, the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and Haiti. We express our deep appreciation to partner 
countries for their various forms of support in terms of 
training and equipment, which allow Burkinabé troops 
to accomplish their tasks efficiently wherever they are 
sent. 
With  respect  to  conflict  resolution,  Burkina  Faso 
advocates dialogue and consultation, which is the basis 
for Burkina Faso’s consistent action when the President 
of our country is sought after as a mediator or facilitator. 
Accordingly, I welcome the adoption on 31 July by the 
Assembly  of  resolution  68/303  on  “Strengthening  the 
role of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
conflict prevention and resolution”. In that regard, my 
country, a member of the Group of Friends of Mediation, 
encourages  the  actions  taken  under  the  leadership  of 
Finland and Turkey. 
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  Burkina  Faso 
welcomes 
for  advanced 
autonomy status in Western Sahara, which is a credible 
the  Moroccan 
initiative 
and  realistic  option  for  achieving  a  final  solution 
acceptable to all. 
In  the  Middle  East,  we  condemn  the  recent 
escalation of violence which has led to many casualties 
among civilian populations. Priority should be given to 
dialogue,  and  we  hope  that  the  unrestricted  ceasefire 
that  was  signed  between  Palestinians  and  Israelis 
on  26  August  2014,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, will lead to the establishment of a 
definitive peace between the two parties to the conflict. 
Accordingly, Burkina Faso welcomes the efforts of the 
international community aimed at creating a Palestinian 
State living side by side with Israel in peace, security 
and mutual respect. 
The  establishment  of  international  peace  and 
security will be but hollow words as long as the issue 
of  disarmament  remains  unresolved.  Therefore,  no 
sacrifice is too great if together we can achieve a world 
free of nuclear weapons, a reduction in the risk of the 
proliferation  of  conventional  weapons,  and  the  entry 
into  force  and  universalization  of  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty. 
To establish a permanent basis for peace, security 
and  freedom,  it  is  also  necessary  to  create  the 
conditions  for  sustainable  and  equitable  development 
for  all  peoples.  That  is  why  my  country  reaffirms 
its  strong  commitment  to  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  therefore  have  a 
deep interest in the development process under way for 
the  sustainable  development  goals  and  the  post-2015 
development agenda, and we urge that special attention 
be given to vital sectors such as agriculture, renewable 
energy, industrialization and infrastructure. 
Burkina  Faso  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
ideals of the United Nations based on the principles of 
peaceful coexistence, dialogue and peaceful settlement 
of disputes. It is with conviction that we welcome and 
strongly encourage the rapprochement of views between 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  Republic  of 
China on Taiwan and the dialogue that forms the basis 
for such an approach. We favour the wider participation 
of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the specialized 
agencies of the United Nations. 
We salute the spirit of understanding displayed by 
the international community in allowing the involvement 
of that country in international organizations in order to 
enable it to play a broader role on the world stage through 
its  contribution  to  the  achievement  of  development 
14-55187
3/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
goals,  particularly  in  countries  like  Burkina  Faso. 
Readmitting  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  our 
Organization  is  worth  considering.  With  23  million 
inhabitants and a large economy, the Republic of China 
on Taiwan has established itself as a key player in the 
international  arena  in  terms  of  promoting  peace  and 
contributing to development efforts. 
With  regard  to  Cuba,  Burkina  Faso  reiterates  its 
position  in  favour  of  lifting  the  embargo  in  order  to 
allow  the  Cuban  people  to  fit  harmoniously  into  the 
concert of nations. 
Convinced  of  the  irreplaceable  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  promoting  multilateralism,  my  country 
supports the reforms under consideration, in particular 
those of the Security Council and the General Assembly. 
Given  the  nature  of  the  new  factors  in  the  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security,  it  is  necessary  and 
equitable  that  other  continents  have  permanent  seats 
on  the  Security  Council.  That  is  why  Burkina  Faso 
endorses  the  African  Common  Position  in  favour  of 
expanding  the  number  of  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council to take into account the expectations 
of the African continent. 
With  everyone’s  help  and  moved  by  a  spirit  of 
solidarity and sharing, we can strengthen the role of the 
United Nations as a genuine instrument of cooperation 
for peace, security, justice and development. 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr.  Hor  Namhong  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset, 
allow  me  to  warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of 
the Republic of Uganda on his election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I have 
full confidence that, under his guidance, the sixty-ninth 
session will proceed to a successful conclusion. I would 
also  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  extend  my  great 
appreciation to Mr. John William Ashe of Antigua and 
Barbuda  for  his  wise  leadership  and  relentless  efforts 
as President of the sixty-eighth session in guiding us to 
many outstanding achievements.
In  many  ways,  the  world  in  which  we  are  living 
is  at  a  critical  juncture,  and  the  current  picture  is 
rather  bleak.  The  international  community  remains 
seriously  concerned  over  recent  geopolitical  security 
developments  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  The  self-
declared  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  Syria  and  its 
horrendous  crimes  are  menacing  peace,  security  and 
stability  in  those  countries,  which  have  already  been 
seriously  hit  by  armed  conflicts  and  acts  of  violence. 
In Syria, the continued armed hostilities have not only 
caused the deaths of thousands of innocent people and 
children,  but  have  also  led  to  millions  of  refugees. 
In  Africa,  some  countries  have  also  suffered  armed 
conflicts  and  violence,  which  have  placed  peace  and 
stability at risk in that part of the world. All those armed 
conflicts  and  crimes  are  threatening  peace,  stability 
and human security, not only in those regions, but also 
in the world at large.
To  contribute  to  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle 
East  and  Africa,  Cambodia  has  participated  actively 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  We  have 
dispatched more than 2,000 peacekeepers to Lebanon, 
Mali  and  South  Sudan.  In  November,  Cambodia  will 
deploy  another  detachment  of  216  peacekeepers  to 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic.
While extremism is threatening the world’s peace 
and security, the spread of the Ebola epidemic in Africa 
has also become one of the worst threats to the world 
today. It is of critical importance that the international 
community  make  concerted  efforts  to  address  that 
global challenge in an effective and timely manner.
With regard to the hostilities between Palestine and 
Israel, despite the fragile ceasefire recently concluded, 
the situation remains a serious concern. We call on all 
parties  to  make  efforts  to  resume  meaningful  peace 
talks  in  order  to  reach  a  viable  political  solution  of 
two  States  living  peacefully  side  by  side.  Cambodia 
believes that that is the only way to definitively put an 
end to that long-lasting conflict. 
The situation in the eastern part of Europe, in spite 
of  the  delicate  ceasefire,  remains  worrisome  and  its 
implications could presage a return to the Cold War. 
In Asia, the launching of missiles by the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  aroused  international 
concern and aggravated the situation in the region. The 
Six-Party Talks should be resumed in order to explore 
a possible avenue for peaceful dialogue to bring about 
a peaceful denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
Climate  change  is  currently  an  obvious  global 
challenge, as well as a human security issue. The rapid 
pace  of  climate  change  is  having  devastating  effects 
for  both  developed  and  developing  countries.  The 
developing countries, dependent mostly on agriculture, 
4/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
suffer more from the various negative effects of climate 
change,  such  as  frequent  typhoons,  storms,  floods 
and  droughts.  For  instance,  in  2013,  heavy  monsoon 
rains  caused  extensive  flooding  across  Cambodia, 
claimed  168  lives,  caused  $1  billion  in  damages  and 
affected  1.8  million  people.  Even  this  year,  12  out  of 
the 25 provinces and various cities of Cambodia have 
suffered  on  account  of  floods,  killing  45  people  and 
afflicting almost 100,000 families.
consultative  body  to  further  increase  the  region’s 
capacity in both mitigation and adaptation efforts. As 
a  member  of  ASEAN,  Cambodia  is  fully  engaged  in 
the  implementation  of  that  ASEAN  initiative  through 
the  ASEAN  Working  Group  on  Climate  Change  and 
the ASEAN Action Plan on Joint Response to Climate 
Change, with the goal of enhancing closer and deeper 
regional  and  international  cooperation  on  climate 
change.
According  to  a  report  by  the  Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change, the global warming caused 
by  the  increase  in  greenhouse  gases  is  generated  by 
humankind’s  use  of  fossil  fuels.  There  is  no  doubt 
that the industrialized countries, which consume most 
of  the  world’s  fossil  fuels,  emit  the  largest  amount  of 
greenhouse gas, while the developing countries, which 
produce only small amounts of such gases, are the main 
victims  of  climate  change.  It  is  therefore  imperative 
that  the  international  community  provide  further 
impetus to revitalize and prioritize actions to address 
climate change based on the United Nations principle of 
common but differentiated responsibilities. 
With that concept in mind and while applauding the 
fruitful outcome of the recent United Nations Climate 
Summit, held on 23 September in New York, Cambodia 
hopes that the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December  2015,  will 
bring  about  concrete  measures  to  reach  a  new  global 
agreement  with  legal  force  applicable  to  all  parties 
under the Framework Convention.
In  line  with  the  United  Nations  principles  for 
sustainable  development  and  in  order  to  mitigate 
the  threat  of  climate  change,  Cambodia  has  adopted 
its  national  strategic  plan  on  green  development  for 
2013-2030,  which  aims  at  achieving  economic  and 
social  development  in  a  sustainable  manner,  while  at 
the same time protecting the environment, through the 
efficient  use  of  raw  materials  and  natural  resources, 
clean  development  and  green  preservation.  Cambodia 
has  also  adopted  several  legal  instruments  for  green 
growth  development,  including  the  memorandum  of 
understanding  on  green  growth  cooperation  between 
Cambodia  and  South  Korea’s  Global  Green  Growth 
Institute and the National Council on Green Growth.
South-East  Asia,  which  is  highly  vulnerable  to 
the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change,  established 
the  Climate  Change  Initiative  of  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  in  2009  as  a 
Next  year  marks  the  deadline  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). While some MDG targets 
have been achieved, we have to acknowledge that much 
more effort is need to reach the set goals of the MDGs, 
as  progress  has  been  uneven  and  insufficient.  Many 
developing  countries  have  not  attained  their  MDG 
targets,  primarily  owing  to  unfulfilled  commitments, 
lack  of  resources,  insufficient  dedication,  and  food 
insecurity. The situation was further aggravated by the 
financial uncertainty in the developed countries, which 
has  had  an  impact  on  their  commitment  to  official 
development  assistance.  Therefore,  bolder  and  more 
focused  global  efforts  are  needed  as  we  approach  the 
final year to realize the MDGs.
into 
our  National 
With  the  aim  of  realizing  the  MDGs,  Cambodia 
has  adopted  its  own  development  targets,  known  as 
the  Cambodia  MDGs,  which  have  been  incorporated 
comprehensively 
Strategic 
Development  Plan  2014-2018.  As  a  result,  substantial 
progress  has  been  achieved,  positioning  Cambodia 
to meet some goals of the MDGs by the end of 2015. 
Cambodia’s  target  in  reducing  the  poverty  rate  to 
19.5 per cent by 2015 has already been achieved ahead 
of  schedule,  as  the  nation’s  poverty  rate  had  already 
fallen  to  19  per  cent  in  2013.  As  a  result,  Cambodia 
received a United Nations Award for cutting hunger in 
half before the deadline.
In combating HIV/AIDS, Cambodia has made great 
strides  by  progressively  reducing  HIV  prevalence  to 
0.6 per cent in 2013. In order to achieve that indicator, the 
Cambodian Government has further adopted a getting-
to-zero  policy,  aiming  to  realize  zero  new  infections, 
zero  AIDS-related  deaths  and  zero  discrimination  by 
2020.
In  addition  to  tracking  the  Cambodia  MDGs 
achievements, the Royal Government of Cambodia has 
put  forth  a  Cambodia  MDGs  acceleration  framework 
with  an  approach  aimed  at  accelerating  progress  in 
achieving  the  MDGs  and  other  human  development 
goals.  The  framework  could  provide  the  essential 
14-55187
5/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
Cambodia  shares 
the  view  expressed 
input for the implementation of our National Strategic 
Development Plan 2014-2018 aimed at completing the 
remaining MDGs, as well as at setting the stage for the 
preparation of the post-2015 development agenda.
in 
the 
report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on 
the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  entitled  A  New 
Global  Partnership:  Eradicate  Poverty  and  Transform 
Economies  through  Sustainable  Development,  to  be 
adopted  during  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, that
“a new development agenda should carry forward 
the  spirit  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  the 
best of the MDGs, with a practical focus on things 
like  poverty,  hunger,  water,  sanitation,  education 
and health care”.
Cambodia  is  of  the  view  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  should  be  realistic  and  built 
upon  the  lessons  learned  from  the  difficulties  in 
the  realization  of  the  MDGs;  in  particular,  it  should 
ensure that any process towards a broader development 
objective is truly balanced and comprehensive.
Next  year,  2015,  is  a  crucial  year  as  the  United 
Nations  celebrates  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its 
creation  and  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  2005  World 
Summit,  where  world  leaders  agreed  to  reform  the 
United Nations to meet the needs of today’s geopolitical 
and  global  challenges  (resolution  60/1).  To  that  end, 
the  General  Assembly  should  be  further  empowered 
so that it can play a leading role in strengthening the 
wider United Nations system. The Security Council, as 
a  body  mandated  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
should represent the world’s realities today. In sum, we 
think that more equitable representation in the United 
Nations organs would assist the Organization in coping 
with the urgent global challenges.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Murray  McCully,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
New Zealand.
Mr.  McCully  (New  Zealand):  It  is  an  honour  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  today  on  behalf  of  the 
Prime Minister and Government of New Zealand. Our 
general election took place in the past week. Our Prime 
Minister, the Right Honourable John Key, is engaged in 
forming a Government, and that is why he is unable to 
be in New York today.
I  want  to  begin  by  acknowledging  the  success  of 
the  recent  third  International  Conference  on  Small 
Island Developing States, held in Samoa. The success 
of  the  Conference  was  the  result  of  the  extraordinary 
work Samoa put into preparing for the Conference and 
the ownership of the agenda that was demonstrated by 
the small island developing States (SIDS). While it is 
undoubtedly  true  that  small  island  developing  States 
have  placed  great  value  on  the  opportunity  to  talk,  it 
is also true that there was an undertone of frustration, 
born of the fact that too often in the past talk has not 
been  followed  by  action.  I  strongly  identify  with  that 
view. The multilateral world is awash with talk of plans 
and  strategies  and  funds,  while  out  there  in  the  real 
world of small island developing States, not enough is 
happening on the ground. My country, New Zealand, is 
intent on avoiding that shortcoming, especially in our 
own region, the Pacific.
Renewable  energy  featured  strongly  in  the  SIDS 
Conference agenda, as it had at the Secretary-General’s 
2014 Climate Summit in the past week. Pacific nations 
spend 10 per cent of their gross domestic product and up 
to 30 per cent of their entire import bills on importing 
diesel  fuel  for  electricity  generation.  Sustainable 
economic development therefore simply cannot happen 
in our region without renewable energy.
Significant  progress  is  being  achieved,  especially 
since the Pacific Energy Summit 2013 that we co-hosted 
with the European Union in Auckland in March 2013, 
at  which  $635  million  in  funding  was  committed  for 
over 50 projects. The Tokelau Islands have moved from 
100 per cent dependence on fossil fuels to 93 per cent 
renewable.  During  the  SIDS  Conference  itself,  we 
opened a 2.2-megawatt plant, a solar array in Samoa. 
A  year  earlier  we  opened  a  1.2-megawatt  plant  in 
Tonga. Next month, we will open a 1-megawatt array in 
Rarotonga. And in the next 12 months, all of the outer 
islands  of  Tuvalu  and  all  but  one  of  the  outer  Cook 
Islands will be close to 100 per cent renewable. 
We  are  making  real  progress  towards  converting 
our  Pacific  neighbourhood 
to  renewable  energy, 
bringing  significant  environmental  benefits  and 
greatly  enhancing  prospects  for  sustainable  economic 
development.  My  country  has  committed  over 
$100 million to that process. We are not waiting for a 
new  multilateral  agreement  or  a  new  green  fund.  We 
are simply getting ahead with robust partnerships and 
making it happen.
6/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
Another  key  topic  at  the  SIDS  Conference  was 
sustainable  fisheries.  For  our  region,  that  is  critically 
important.  The  biggest  economic  asset  in  the  Pacific 
is its fisheries. In the past year, over $3.3 billion worth 
of  tuna  was  harvested  from  Pacific  waters,  yet  only 
14  per  cent  of  that  value,  about  $460  million,  made 
its  way  back  to  Pacific  nations.  New  Zealand  has 
committed  over  $70  million  over  the  next  five  years 
to  advance  a  comprehensive  approach  that  includes 
enhanced  surveillance,  training  of  monitors,  training 
in commercial fishing practices, research and science 
initiatives  and  improving  management  practices.  Our 
objective is to see the owners of the Pacific tuna resource 
receive a significantly greater share of the value of that 
resource, and to ensure that it is sustainably managed 
for the future.
A key message from the SIDS Conference is the need 
to share experiences and skills among the SIDS regions. 
That is starting to happen. Fisheries management is a 
prime candidate for greater cooperation. We have also 
commenced  a  process  of  interregional  cooperation  in 
renewable  energy  by  supporting  the  development  of 
geothermal energy in the Caribbean and Africa.
While small island developing States are showing 
real  leadership  in  addressing  climate  change  and 
shifting to renewable energy, those issues require action 
on a global scale. We therefore commend the Secretary-
General  for  convening  the  Climate  Summit  here  in 
New  York  last  week.  We  are  participating  actively  in 
those negotiations and hope they will pave the way for 
a  successful  conclusion  in  Paris  next  year.  We  have 
made  an  initial  commitment  to  the  Green  Climate 
Fund to show our support for the global effort, but we 
will  unashamedly  continue  to  prioritize  making  real 
progress  with  real  projects  in  our  own  region,  which 
will continue to consume the bulk of our resources.
The other major event that has recently taken place 
in the Pacific is the election in Fiji. We congratulate the 
Prime Minister, his party and the people of Fiji on their 
successful  return  to  democratic  rule.  Fiji’s  successful 
elections  are  hugely  important  for  the  region.  I  am 
delighted  that  following  the  preliminary  report  of  the 
multinational observers group, both the Pacific Islands 
Forum  and  the  Commonwealth  have  commenced  the 
process of lifting Fiji’s suspension. We look forward to 
rebuilding and strengthening the connections between 
us.  Neither  New  Zealand  nor  Fiji  can  contemplate  a 
future  that  does  not  entail  close  and  continuing  links 
with the other. We also welcomed the safe return of the 
Fiji peacekeepers who were held hostage in the Golan 
Heights.  That  incident  again  underlined  the  great 
challenges  and  the  dangers  faced  by  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  and  the  responsibilities  we  all  have  to 
ensure  the  safety  and  security  of  peacekeeping  and 
other United Nations personnel.
It  is  as  well  that  we  are  able  to  note  some  bright 
spots for our region, because the situation in other parts 
of the world does look bleak. 
What  happened  over  the  past  few  months  in 
Gaza  was  an  affront  to  humanity.  No  good  was  done 
for  the  cause  of  Palestine  by  Hamas  firing  rockets 
indiscriminately into Israel. No good was done for peace 
in the Middle East by Israel pounding Gaza with such 
intensity and at such cost of civilian lives. We welcome 
the ceasefire that was agreed after so many false starts 
and are thankful that so far it endures. We call on all 
sides not only to keep the guns and rockets silent but to 
refrain from actions that may destabilize what can only 
be described as an uneasy peace. In that connection, we 
express our profound regret at Israel’s appropriation of 
400 hectares of privately owned Palestinian land near 
Bethlehem for settlements. That act itself is profoundly 
unhelpful.
The  problems  of  the  Middle  East  are  deep  and 
difficult.  They  go  back  to  the  earliest  days  of  the 
Organization  and  beyond.  But  what  happened  over 
the  past  months  in  and  in  relation  to  Gaza  was  a 
modern  failure  —  a  failure  of  leadership,  of  purpose 
and  of  vision.  We  urge  the  leaders  of  Israel  and  of 
Palestine, both West Bank and Gaza, to live up to their 
responsibilities to their peoples and to their positions.
In  Syria  and  Iraq,  we  see  the  truly  frightening 
consequences  when  leadership,  both  internally  and 
in  the  Security  Council,  has  failed.  Syria  has  been  a 
weeping sore for over three years. Thousands of Syrians 
have  died,  millions  have  become  refugees  and  all 
Syrian people have suffered terribly from the multiple 
conflicts engulfing the country. And now the tragedy 
of Syria has spilled over into Iraq, which was already 
wrestling  with  its  own  deep-seated  problems.  Many 
actors, in both the recent past and over a longer time 
frame, have had a hand in contributing to the situation 
we now confront, but now it is time for action.
We need to find a way to contain the madness that 
is the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, to address 
the humanitarian tragedy and to help the people of Syria 
and Iraq craft a better future. By any objective standard, 
14-55187
7/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
that  is  a  situation  that  cries  out  for  Security  Council 
attention, and that is true of both sides of the border. 
We  need  the  Council  members  and  the  Governments 
concerned to move past the ideological stalemate that 
has kept the Council largely impotent for the past three 
years.  The  challenge  we  all  face  in  Syria  and  Iraq  is 
unlike  any  the  United  Nations  has  faced  before.  The 
political circumstances in which it is being played out 
are about as bad as they get. Yet somehow we must find 
a way of coming together to defeat that shared problem.
Paralysis has also prevailed in the Security Council 
over  Ukraine.  The  Council  has  been  essentially 
a  bystander  as  one  of  its  permanent  members  has 
undermined the integrity of another Member State. We 
recognize the difficulties of managing ethnic tensions 
that straddle borders and the risks of local fires being 
stoked into wider national and international crises. But 
with  the  strong  shared  histories  of  cooperation  and 
achievement between Russia and Ukraine, there is no 
excuse for leaders allowing matters to unravel as they 
have, to the point where international peace and security 
may be at risk. Already hundreds of innocent civilians 
on Flight MH-17 lost their lives through an associated 
mistake and miscalculation. We welcome the ceasefire 
agreed earlier this month, which has held, for the most 
part. We call on all involved to step back, think about 
what is at stake and start rebuilding the trust essential 
to finding a lasting solution.
Events  in  the  Middle  East  and  Ukraine  have 
dominated  the  headlines  in  recent  months  and  have 
diverted  attention  from  the  serious  situations  that 
continue  to  play  out  in  Africa,  particularly  in  Libya, 
Mali,  the  Central  African  Republic,  South  Sudan, 
Somalia  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo.  The 
United  Nations  is  directly  involved  in  those  crises, 
and  they  continue  to  challenge  the  capacity  of  the 
Organization  and  of  the  African  Union  to  respond 
to  the  sheer  scale  of  human  suffering  and  to  the 
continuing need for external assistance to restore and 
keep  the  peace,  keep  civilian  populations  safe  and 
deliver humanitarian assistance. Those issues, no less 
than  those  in  the  Middle  East  and  Eastern  Europe, 
will  continue  to  require  constant  attention  from  the 
Security  Council  and  the  coordinated  efforts  of  the 
broader United Nations family. They show that for all 
its failings and structural inequalities, the Council still 
has  a  vital  role  to  play  in  maintaining  international 
peace and security.
But  there  is  one  lesson  that  we  must  learn  from 
all  those  recent  crises  —  the  United  Nations  must 
fundamentally  improve  its  performance  in  preventing 
conflict. Once fighting is in full spate, the options for 
peace disappear. Prevention is critical, not just in new 
conflicts,  but  also  in  the  cases  on  the  agenda  where 
conflict  has  been  frozen  or  where  peacebuilding  has 
not really taken hold.
We are deeply troubled by the unprecedented scale 
of  the  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa.  We  recognize 
the  huge  challenges  it  poses  to  the  economies  and 
the  political  and  security  cohesion  in  the  region.  We 
have contributed and will continue to contribute to the 
humanitarian work under way, and on the formation of 
a  new  Government,  we  will  look  at  further  practical 
steps to support the international effort.
In  18  days’  time,  the  United  Nations  membership 
will decide who will be on the Security Council for the 
next two-year term. New Zealand has been a candidate 
for that position since 2004. It has been 20 years since 
we  were  last  on  the  Council.  It  has  been  a  long  and 
demanding campaign, and it will continue right up to 
the  elections  on  16  October.  With  tough  competitors, 
such as our good friends Spain and Turkey, that has to 
be the case. The campaign has been a great opportunity 
for  us  to  engage  with  nations  around  the  world.  We 
greatly  value  the  new  relationships  we  have  forged 
and  the  enhanced  character  of  existing  relationships. 
Whatever the outcome, we are determined to maintain 
them. 
In the past, New Zealand has demonstrated that as 
a member of the Council it acts strongly, effectively and 
independently. It champions the rights of small States 
and  for  the  voices  of  all  to  be  heard.  In  short,  as  my 
Prime Minister said from this rostrum last year, there 
is no point in joining the Council simply to make up the 
numbers. Sometimes one has to speak up and shine a 
light on what is going on, or not going on, even when it 
is embarassing or inconvenient to others to do so.
Above  all,  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  if  we 
are  elected,  New  Zealand  will  be  a  credible,  positive 
influence  on  the  Security  Council.  At  our  core,  New 
Zealand is an optimistic country and New Zealanders 
are an optimistic people. We believe that things can be 
better  than  they  are  and  are  prepared,  as  a  people,  to 
work hard to achieve that. Despite the many challenges 
on  the  international  agenda,  my  hope  is  that  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  will  give  us  an 
8/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
opportunity  to  prove  that  by  serving  on  the  Security 
Council from next year.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  K.  Shanmugam,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr.  Shanmugam  (Singapore):  I  wish  to  convey 
our  congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa  on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session. We wish him success in the coming 
year.
We  are  not  living  in  the  worst  of  times,  but  they 
are not the best of times either. Standards of living are 
far higher for more of the human race than ever before. 
But  we  face  global  crises  of  several  types:  internal 
and  cross-border  conflicts,  epidemics,  disasters  both 
natural and man-made, climate change and international 
crime. We are facing grave threats from terrorism and 
extremism.  The  latest  manifestation  is  the  Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS).  It  is  brutal  and 
cruel  and  a  travesty  of  all  that  religion  stands  for.  Its 
unspeakable acts of cruelty, including abductions and 
brutal  murders  of  civilians,  constitute  crimes  against 
humanity. Singapore condemns those terrorist actions 
in  the  strongest  possible  terms.  ISIS  will  continue  to 
target those who do not conform to its extremist agenda.
The  threat  of  such  terrorism  and  radical  ideology 
is not confined to the Middle East. It affects the whole 
world.  An  estimated  15,000  foreigners  from  at  least 
80  countries,  including  from  South-East  Asia,  have 
travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight. That fact that ISIS 
can  attract  so  many  foreign  fighters  highlights  the 
need for a comprehensive strategy to counter them. In 
addition  to  military  and  intelligence  efforts,  we  must 
also combat the radical ideology used to recruit foreign 
fighters, which fuels their extremist agenda.
Singapore  firmly  supports  all  international  and 
regional  cooperation  efforts.  We  welcome  the  strong 
leadership  of  the  United  States,  in  particular  in  the 
formation  of  the  international  coalition  to  combat  the 
ISIS  threat.  We  also  welcome  the  Jeddah  Declaration 
by Arab countries to stand united against ISIS. Security 
Council  resolution  2178  (2014),  on  foreign  terrorist 
fighters, which Singapore co-sponsored, is an important 
step to combat global terrorism and will be critical to 
cutting off financial and material support for ISIS and 
preventing the movement of foreign terrorist fighters. 
No  country  can  insulate  itself  from  those  problems. 
We  need  to  combat  them  at  all  levels.  Fair  economic 
development, good governance and political and social 
stability  will  be  critical  in  increasing  a  country’s 
resilience against those threats.
implementing  a 
The  President’s  choice  of  the  theme  “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”  for  this  year’s  session  and  his 
emphasis on a comprehensive, action-oriented post-2015 
development agenda are particularly timely. Singapore 
commends  the  work  of  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  looks  forward  to 
the Secretary-General’s report of its recommendations.
We  also  welcome  the  contributions  of  major 
forums, such as the Third International Conference on 
Small  Island  Developing  States  (SIDS),  recently  held 
in  Samoa.  Singapore  had  the  privilege  of  co-chairing 
the  preparatory  committee  for  that  forum  with  New 
Zealand.  It  is  important  that  the  views  and  concerns 
of small States be properly factored into the post-2015 
development  agenda.  The  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  were  successful  due  to  the  pragmatic, 
outcome-based  and  quantifiable  approach 
the 
Targets. We hope that same approach will be taken in 
respect  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Those 
MDGs that were not fully achieved should be included 
as an intrinsic part of the post-2015 agenda. 
to 
Regarding the principles for sustainable development, 
Singapore  is  participating  actively  in  the  discussions 
for the post-2015 period, focusing on those areas where 
we can contribute — key principles that were critical 
to our development path and might be relevant to other 
developing countries. 
First  is  the  principle  of  honest  and  competent 
government. Corruption is a drag on development and 
an  intrinsic  source  of  social  instability.  Fighting  it 
needs  political  will,  strong  leadership  and  unceasing 
vigilance from the whole society. 
Secondly,  rule  of  law  is  integral  to  sustainable 
development.  Governments  need  sound  and  effective 
institutions.  Those  institutions,  including  the  civil 
service,  the  judiciary  and  law  enforcement  agencies, 
must  be  built  on  core  principles  of  equal  justice  and 
meritocracy, regardless of ethnicity, religion or gender. 
Social  capital  —  the  trust  that  people  have  in  one 
another, their leaders and the system — is as necessary 
to sustainable development as financial capital. 
The  third  principle  is  that  economic  and  social 
policy  must  be  pragmatic,  not  dogmatic.  Singapore 
does  not  advocate  any  standard  model  of  government 
14-55187
9/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
or economic structure. The only model is to work with 
what you have within the context of a country’s culture 
and  resources,  prudently  and  for  the  benefit  of  the 
people.  Policies  have  to  be  judged  by  their  outcomes, 
not  according  to  ideological  content.  Both  consistent 
attention and responsive implementation are necessary 
to  achieve  long-term  goals.  We  will  put  those  ideas 
forward during the discussion.
and  help  countries  define  the  policies  they  need  to 
achieve that goal. To us, a sustainable city means having 
a  competitive  economy,  environmental  sustainability 
and a high quality of life for all inhabitants, rich and 
poor alike. We hope that the Liveability Framework can 
be  incorporated  as  part  of  discussions  for  the  United 
Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban 
Development — Habitat III — in 2016.
Since the urban centres of small States tend to have 
disproportionately large social, political and economic 
weight in the country, a dysfunctional urban centre can 
have a much greater negative effect on a small country 
than on a big one. Today, slightly more than half of the 
world’s population live in cities. By 2050, that will go 
up to 70 per cent. Most of that growth will take place 
in Africa, Asia and Latin America. As noted on page 
17  of  the  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda, cities 
are  where  the  battle  for  sustainable  development 
will  be  won  or  lost.  Mismanaged  urbanization  can 
intensify  inequalities.  Asia  is  already  home  to  61  per 
cent of the world’s slum dwellers, and Africa is home 
to  about  26  per  cent.  The  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  has  predicted  that  by 
2030, 2 billion people could live in urban poverty. They 
will  be  at  risk  from  overcrowding,  epidemics,  crime 
and pollution.
Yet,  urbanization  has  in  fact  been  significant 
in  the  progress  towards  achievement  of  the  MDGs, 
especially in reducing poverty. Successful cities bring 
up  their  rural  hinterlands.  Today,  cities  account  for 
over 80 per cent of global gross domestic product. The 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex) 
itself  recognizes  that  well-planned  cities  promote 
economically, socially and environmentally sustainable 
societies.  They  are  engines  for  growth  and  are  more 
resource-efficient than rural societies.
is 
therefore  really 
Mr. Gata Mavita wa Lufuta (Democratic Republic 
of the Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  challenge 
to  manage 
urbanization well. Singapore has been contributing to the 
discussions on sustainable urbanization as co-chair of 
the Group of Friends on Sustainable Cities. Singapore’s 
Centre  for  Liveable  Cities  was  established  in  2008  to 
distil, create and share knowledge on sustainable cities. 
It has developed a Liveability Framework as a tool to 
analyse  what  a  sustainable  city  would  actually  entail 
In  the  area  of  water  and  sanitation,  last  year 
Singapore  submitted  resolution  67/291  to  the  General 
Assembly  to  designate  19  November  as  World  Toilet 
Day in the context of Sanitation for All. This year, we 
will  observe  that  Day  together  with  relevant  United 
Nations  agencies  and  civil  society  organizations  by 
focusing on the serious problems faced by women and 
girls who lack basic sanitation access. That issue needs 
greater attention than it has received so far.
What  is  the  way  forward?  Once  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  has  been  agreed,  countries  will 
need to consider implementation. South-South, North-
South and triangular cooperation in capacity-building 
and sharing experiences are important parts of the way 
forward. In our early years, Singapore benefited from 
the expert advice of specialized agencies, international 
organizations and developed countries. In 1992, we set 
up the Singapore Cooperation Programme to share our 
development experience, the successes and the failures 
alike, with other developing countries. The Programme 
is  designed  to  build  capacity  in  fields  that  could 
be  of  interest  to  countries,  in  the  hope  that  that  will 
smooth their developmental path. Recently, at the third 
Small Island Developing States Conference in Samoa, 
Singapore launched a dedicated package for SIDS.
Singapore  supports  the  universal  and  inclusive 
approach  to  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Each 
society  must  draw  its  own  lessons  from  its  own 
experiences and find solutions according to its national 
circumstances.  Naturally,  there  will  be  differences  of 
opinion, but we must not lose sight of the ultimate goal 
of  ending  extreme  poverty  in  our  lifetimes.  With  the 
MDGs,  we  managed  to  halve  the  number  of  people 
living  below  the  poverty  line,  and  there  is  real  hope 
that we can do even better.
Let  us  all  work  together  to  ensure  that  by  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  inception  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  2015,  we  can  unite  around  a  clear  vision 
of how to provide our future generations the future we 
want.
10/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Charles Flanagan, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of Ireland.
Mr.  Flanagan  (Ireland):  It  is  my  great  honour 
to  represent  Ireland  today  at  the  General  Assembly. 
Regrettably, this gathering comes at a dangerous time in 
global history. Delegates here represent a world facing 
many  challenges,  but  they  are  challenges  that  can  be 
tackled with unity of purpose and surmounted through 
strong  leadership,  especially  from  this  Organization, 
the United Nations. Indeed, the United Nations must be 
at the vanguard of efforts to eradicate terrorism where 
it  flourishes,  to  preserve  the  sovereignty  of  States 
where it is threatened and to promote and protect peace 
and human rights where those essential components of 
human dignity and human happiness are lacking.
In  my  address  this  afternoon,  I  will  focus  on 
the  conflicts  that  beset  the  Middle  East  and  Eastern 
Europe,  and  I  will  do  so  in  a  way  that  reflects  the 
foreign  policy  tenets  of  my  country:  first,  dialogue 
and compromise as the solution to intractable conflicts 
between peoples; secondly, respect for the rule of law 
and  solidarity  within  the  international  community 
when a democratic State is threatened; thirdly, a strong 
commitment  to  peacekeeping  while  preserving  Irish 
military neutrality; fourthly, the critical importance of 
development;  and  last  but  not  least,  the  promotion  of 
human rights, in particular the rights of minorities and 
of women and girls in this troubled world.
I  will  begin  by  outlining  some  thoughts  on  the 
importance  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Security  Council.  We  see  a  world  beset  by  warfare 
and  terror  on  many  fronts.  Heart-rending  reports  of 
escalating casualty and refugee numbers, the slaughter 
of innocents, the suffering of children and vulnerable 
adults  in  Iraq,  Syria,  Gaza,  Ukraine  and  many  other 
conflicts  dominate  the  news  on  our  airwaves  and 
television  news  and  on  the  Internet.  The  people  we 
represent  in  the  Assembly  rightly  expect  the  United 
Nations  to  be  a  source  of  action.  Regrettably,  too 
often, they see an institution that seems hamstrung and 
stymied in situations where it needs to be both decisive 
and strong.
It is not that we lack the necessary instruments; the 
many  achievements  of  this  great  Organization  amply 
demonstrate its capacity to act decisively and effectively 
when  the  necessary  political  will  is  forthcoming.  For 
the  United  Nations  to  meet  the  manifold,  complex 
and  grave  challenges  that  are  dominating  this  year’s 
session of the Assembly, the Organization must review 
its working methods and priorities. Resources must be 
directed to the areas of greatest need and used with the 
utmost efficiency.
In  particular,  we  must  see  new  approaches  to  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  —  something  Ireland 
and its partners in the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency  Group  have  been  actively  promoting. 
While Ireland would like to see the veto power in the 
Council  ultimately  abolished,  we  strongly  welcome 
the  initiative  of  France,  supported  by  Mexico,  to 
better regulate the use of that power by the Council’s 
permanent  members.  Moreover,  Ireland  supports  an 
increase in the membership of the Security Council to 
more  closely  reflect  regional  balances  as  well  as  the 
current realities of population and economic weight in 
the world.
The challenge of achieving peace in the Middle East 
remains as great as ever. As Member States, we must do 
more to assist the United Nations in its vital life-saving 
efforts  in  Syria  and  the  many  other  humanitarian 
challenges  confronting  the  broader  region.  I  want  to 
pay  particular  tribute  here  to  the  heroic  role  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East and its brave and dedicated 
staff  in  Gaza,  11  of  whom  tragically  lost  their  lives 
during the recent horrific conflict. We are all indebted 
to Pierre Krähenbühl and his colleagues for providing 
an  indispensable  lifeline  to  the  people  of  Gaza  over 
many years.
Our goal must be to ensure that there is no return to 
the recurrent cycles of violence that we have witnessed 
in  Gaza  and  southern  Israel  on  three  occasions  now, 
most devastatingly during July and August. Each cycle 
of violence appears to harden attitudes on both sides of 
the conflict, and yet, ultimately, no one can want peace 
more than those most directly affected by its absence.
It is widely acknowledged that the achievement of 
a lasting peace requires that the underlying issues that 
gave rise to the most recent bout of violence must be 
definitively  addressed.  The  closures  and  restrictions 
that have applied to Gaza for seven long years now must 
be brought to an end. Equally, there must be assurances 
for  all  Israelis  and  Palestinians  that  they  will  not 
be  subjected 
indiscriminate  violence,  whether 
that  violence  comes  in  the  form  of  rocket  attacks 
targeting Israel or retaliatory strikes with devastating 
consequences for Gaza and its people.
to 
14-55187
11/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
It  is  also  now  long  past  time  for  the  attainment 
of  a  comprehensive  peace  between  the  Israeli  and 
Palestinian peoples. None of us is under any illusions 
about  the  difficult  and  painful  compromises  that  will 
be  involved.  In  essence,  however,  I  believe  that  most 
Israelis  and  Palestinians  recognize  that  the  only  true 
basis for peace and security between them lies in the 
realization  of  a  just,  negotiated  two-State  solution.  It 
remains  vital  that  all  actions  or  policies  that  impede 
that prospect be avoided.
While there is at least a clear vision of the difficult 
compromises  necessary  to  achieve  a  lasting  peace 
between the peoples of Israel and Palestine, the situation 
in neighbouring Syria appears at the moment to present 
an  even  greater  challenge.  Over  the  past  three  and  a 
half years, almost 200,000 people have lost their lives 
at  the  hands  of  the  State  and  militant  groups  in  that 
vicious  conflict.  Ultimately,  the  solution  to  Syria’s 
civil war is not a military one. I strenuously urge all in 
the  international  community  to  fully  support  Special 
Envoy De Mistura in his efforts to promote a political 
settlement  based  on  the  principles  of  the  Geneva 
communiqué of 30 June 2012. The flagrant violation of 
international law by all sides in the Syrian conflict must 
be confronted and referred to the International Criminal 
Court. All sides, particularly the Al-Assad regime, must 
comply  with  their  obligations  under  Security  Council 
resolutions  2165  (2014)  and  2139  (2014),  and  put  an 
end  to  their  obstruction  of  vital  humanitarian  efforts 
and to obscenities such as besieging communities and 
attempting to starve them into submission.
The growth of the extremism we are now witnessing 
across the region is a cause for significant concern and 
one that I know is shared by everyone in the Assembly. 
The bloodlust and inhumanity that the Islamic State in 
Iraq and the Sham (ISIS) is displaying in those countries 
has  shocked  and  appalled  all  civilized  people.  The 
destruction  and  displacement  of  the  ancient  Christian 
communities  of  northern  Iraq  has  been  harrowing  to 
witness.  The  gratuitous  and  almost  casual  approach 
to that most gruesome form of murder, beheading; the 
barbaric sexual violence perpetrated against women and 
girls; the base corruptness of putting military weapons 
in  the  hands  of  children;  the  scapegoating  of  people 
based on their ethnicity or religion, whether Christian, 
Yazidi,  Kurdish,  Sunni,  Shia  or  Jewish  —  all  of  that, 
taken together, harks back to a mentality and a culture 
we thought had long been consigned to the dustbin of 
history.  The  rise  of  ISIS,  the  continued  activities  of 
Al-Qaida  and  the  growing  strength  of  Boko  Haram 
make  it  clear  that  there  is  no  room  for  complacency 
in  the  international  community  when  it  comes  to  the 
growth  of  extremism.  We  must  unite  and  mobilize  to 
confront this threat, and we must do so with a real sense 
of urgency.
Ukraine  is  the  most  dangerous  political  crisis  to 
occur  in  Europe  for  several  decades.  The  situation 
there  has  profound  implications  for  the  viability  and 
future of an international system that upholds the rule 
of law. The actions of the Russian Federation, first in 
Crimea and then in eastern Ukraine, clearly contravene 
a  wide  range  of  international  agreements.  We  should 
remember  first  and  foremost  the  deplorable  violence 
that has been inflicted on innocent civilians in Ukraine 
over many months and the serious humanitarian crisis 
that  has  ensued.  There  can  be  no  military  solution  to 
this  crisis.  We  firmly  support  the  path  of  diplomatic 
dialogue  and  welcome  President  Poroshenko’s  peace 
plan.  We  were  encouraged  by  the  Minsk  agreement 
reached  earlier  this  month  within  the  framework  of 
the  Trilateral  Contact  Group.  A  sustainable  political 
solution must be based on the principle of respect for 
Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  with  clear  guarantees  on 
border  security,  the  disarmament  of  all  illegal  groups 
and the withdrawal of foreign forces.
Ireland  has  a  proud  tradition  of  involvement  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  all  over  the 
world,  beginning  in  1958.  Our  troops  have  made  an 
important  contribution  to  international  peace  and 
stability; 82 of them have made the ultimate sacrifice. I 
take this opportunity to recall and salute all those who 
have fallen in United Nations peacekeeping operations 
since we met for the general debate a year ago. Today, 
some 370 Irish men and women are serving on United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions,  the  majority  in  the 
Middle  East.  The  environment  in  which  they  serve 
has become increasingly complex and challenging. As 
it is for the Department for Peacekeeping Operations, 
the safety and security of our personnel is a very high 
priority  for  us,  and  I  warmly  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s announcement that there will be a review of 
United Nations peacekeeping. That should ensure that 
the Organization retains the capacity to promote peace 
and stability internationally.
The  Assembly  can  rest  assured  that  Irish  men 
and  women  will  continue  to  wear  the  blue  beret  with 
pride  in  service  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  pursuit 
of a better world. Last week, at the high-level meeting 
on peacekeeping hosted by the Secretary-General and 
12/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
Vice-President Biden of the United States, I was pleased 
to announce an initiative by my Government to deliver 
a  new  programme  for  training  African  peacekeepers 
that will include a specific focus on areas such as the 
protection of civilians, gender sensitivity, human rights, 
leadership training and logistics.
The  full  and  equal  participation  of  women  is 
another  essential  component  in  building  peaceful, 
stable  societies.  Women  are  key  agents  of  change 
and  must  be  full  protagonists  in  our  ongoing  global 
story.  Political  will  is  a  crucial  element  in  driving 
women’s  empowerment  and  gender  equality  going 
forward. Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) was 
a milestone in recognizing that reality, and subsequent 
resolutions,  most  recently  resolution  2122  (2013), 
demonstrate our resolve to pursue the goal of women’s 
full  and  empowered  participation  in  the  political 
process.  The  current  agenda  of  the  United  Nations 
includes a welcome and necessary increase in the focus 
on  tackling  the  scourge  of  sexual  violence  in  armed 
conflict. 
But we must translate our global commitment into 
concrete action. Achieving real gender equality requires 
a commitment from all of us here, men and women. It 
is  a  commitment  that  Ireland  is  proud  to  have  made, 
and next January we launch our second national action 
plan on women, peace and security. It is just part of our 
ongoing commitment to ensuring that women and girls 
can reach their full potential, live a life free from fear 
and fully take their place at the decision-making table.
The global threat posed by the spread of Ebola in 
West Africa is a reminder that not all the challenges we 
face are man-made. Ireland is active in addressing this 
epidemic in Liberia and Sierra Leone. Security Council 
resolution  2177  (2014),  sponsored  by  130  Member 
States, indicates the seriousness with which the world 
regards the problem and the need for urgent action on 
the part of the United Nations.
Next  year,  2015,  will  be  a  critical  one  in  the 
fight  to  end  extreme  poverty  and  hunger.  We  have 
15 months to maximize progress under the Millennium 
Development Goals and a mere 12 in which to negotiate 
a  new  framework  for  international  development.  That 
framework must mark an important shift to sustainable 
development, with clear and ambitious targets that can 
help to end extreme poverty, hunger and malnutrition in 
a single generation. Ireland continues to play its part at 
the United Nations and with our partners on the ground. 
We have focused sharply on the continuing scandals of 
hunger, child stunting and maternal mortality in a world 
of plenty. I am pleased that last week the Human Rights 
Council adopted a draft resolution, led by Ireland, on 
the  preventable  mortality  and  morbidity  of  children 
under 5. It is indeed deplorable that some 6.6 million 
children under the age of 5 die annually, mainly from 
preventable and treatable causes.
Ireland  is  working  with  its  partners  in  Africa  on 
the  devastating  impact  of  climate  change,  especially 
on  smallholder  agriculture.  Last  week  we  joined  the 
Alliance for Climate Smart Agriculture. On Thursday, I 
co-hosted a meeting here at the United Nations in support 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  Zero  Hunger  Challenge. 
And days earlier, in Dublin, UNICEF Ireland brought 
to me the voices of Ireland’s young people, calling on 
us to strengthen our efforts and reminding me, in their 
words,  that  “It’s  about  us”.  Ireland’s  commitment  to 
a more equal, inclusive and sustainable future for the 
world’s  children  is  demonstrated  in  practice  through 
our  development  programme  and  our  work  with  our 
partners in sub-Saharan Africa. Despite the extremely 
difficult  economic  circumstances  of  recent  years,  we 
are  proud  that  we  have  stabilized  funding  for  our  aid 
programme. The fight to end poverty and hunger will 
remain a central tenet of our foreign policy.
Recent  events  worldwide  have  demonstrated  that 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  continue  to 
be  violated  and  threatened,  particularly  in  times  of 
conflict. In many parts of the world today, brave women 
and men seek to highlight and address abuses of human 
rights, and to stand up for those who are oppressed or 
without  a  voice.  I  salute  the  courage  of  those  human 
rights  defenders  and  pledge  that  we  in  Ireland  will 
continue  to  work  for  decisive  action,  whether  in  the 
United  Nations  or  the  European  Union,  in  order  to 
support  them.  As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, Ireland has sought to highlight the important 
contribution of civil society to advancing human rights 
and building democratic societies.
Last  week,  the  Council  adopted  by  consensus 
the  significant  resolution  2178  (2014),  led  by  Ireland, 
calling  on  States  to  create  and  maintain  a  safe  and 
enabling  environment  in  which  civil  society  can 
operate. We strongly condemn all forms of persecution 
and  discrimination  based  on  religion  or  belief.  The 
persecution  of  Christians  and  other  minorities  in  the 
Middle East, and the recent rise of anti-Semitic attacks, 
particularly  in  a  number  of  European  countries,  are 
causes of grave concern for me. Too often throughout 
14-55187
13/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
history,  the  world  has  looked  the  other  way  when 
vulnerable  minorities  were  being  targeted,  often  as  a 
prelude to a more serious conflict.
in  which  people  have  had  to  leave  their  homes,  cities 
and countries, vulnerable and facing anguish, violence 
and death again and again. 
On a more positive note, as a former Minister for 
Children and Youth Affairs in Ireland, I felt particularly 
honoured last week to ratify the third Optional Protocol 
to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, reaffirming 
the  commitment  of  my  Government  to  the  protection 
and promotion of the rights of children in Ireland.
In conclusion, I believe that at its most effective this 
great  Organization,  the  United  Nations,  is  a  force  for 
good in the world and has much untapped potential. The 
undoubted achievements in areas, such as peacekeeping, 
conflict  resolution,  development  and  humanitarian 
action, to which Ireland is proud to contribute, should 
renew our faith in our collective ability and inspire us 
to meet the challenges that confront us now and many 
of those that will lie ahead in the future.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the floor to His Excellency Mr. Luis Almagro, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr. Almagro (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Ours 
is a harsh and difficult world — a complex, sometimes 
disgraceful  world  where  6  million  children  die  each 
year  before  their  fifth  birthday,  many  from  problems 
related to malnutrition; where violence has taken on a 
new dimension of terror and horror, with hundreds of 
thousands of deaths in Libya, Syria and Iraq; and where 
human  rights  violations  and  crimes  against  humanity 
occur more frequently and with greater ferocity and are 
the daily reality in those countries.
It  is  a  world  where  more  than  8  million  people 
die  every  year  from  tobacco  consumption  —  an 
incredible  genocidal  activity  that  cannot  be  stopped 
and is promoted by markets that are increasingly more 
open,  free,  less  regulated,  and  licensed  to  operate  in 
contravention of people’s rights to life and health. It is 
a world where military bombs strike and kill those in 
schools,  ethnic  or  religious  minorities,  or  those  who 
may  adhere  to  different  political  beliefs.  It  is  a  world 
where  natural  disasters  devastate  countries  one  year 
and again the following year and the next, as they have 
in  the  brotherly  countries  of  the  Caribbean.  In  this 
world, those who act as global police have bequeathed 
social and political disasters wherever they have gone. 
Global governance has been inspired not by rights, but 
by interests. Those narrow interests were paid for with 
people’s lives, human rights violations and migration, 
The  United  Nations  has  been  unable  to  build  a 
system to find solutions, and it has failed fundamentally 
in  its  ethical  dimension.  There  has  been  no  dearth  of 
work, documents or meetings, but there has been a lack 
of  solutions  for  people.  Our  shared  ethics  should  be 
based on the people. Our shared ethical structure in this 
case must be capable of incorporating our diversity, to 
free us with democracy and participation. We need to 
grow  and  develop  multilateralism,  which  is  the  only 
path  and  basic  instrument  to  promote  that  shared 
ethical  structure,  ensuring  ever  more  rights  for  ever 
more people. We need to grow and develop in freedom.
The political and financial crises of this world are 
linked to common values and ethical standards. Today’s 
world is one of sheer confusion in which humanitarian 
crises follow upon political crises, which in turn follow 
upon  financial,  economic  and  social  crises.  Here  in 
this building we have our own microclimate; we wear 
elegant  suits,  eat  in  expensive  restaurants  and  drive 
large,  modern  cars.  What  happens  to  people  who  are 
not  insiders  but  who  suffer  in  refugee  camps  where 
their  families  are  killed,  their  villages  are  destroyed 
and they are tortured, or where their environments are 
destroyed by the effects of climate change? No one who 
has gained a right should lose it the next day; we need to 
protect that right. We need to offer better opportunities.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  have  served 
as a useful tool to foster and channel efforts for specific 
purposes,  but  we  should  not  leave  countries  alone  in 
those efforts. Within that framework, we should step up 
our efforts every year and seek to define more clearly 
the  sustainable  development  goals  that  will  make  up 
the  post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda  in  a 
balanced, transparent and consensual way that envisions 
integration  of  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development: social, economic and environmental.
We should eliminate poverty from the perspective 
of human rights and the recognition of those rights. The 
wealth that comes into the world causes an increase in 
the  gross  domestic  product  and  exports  and  creates 
more  dynamic  investment,  all  of  which  must  be 
accompanied by a logical recognition of rights. We are 
more developed and richer when we have more rights to 
exercise, when those rights are protected, and when we 
have more guarantees against the growing inequalities 
in  the  world.  Poverty  is  experienced  at  many  levels, 
14/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
and each country is responsible for granting ever more 
rights  to  help  its  people  overcome  poverty,  improve 
conditions and eliminate discrimination. 
All efforts are valuable in every one of our countries, 
and  as  is  every  non-governmental  organization  that 
charts the way or denounces an abuse of human rights 
or seeks to improve opportunities for women, children, 
youths, retired people and migrants in different areas, 
such as health care, education, social protection, decent 
work, social and economic opportunities, whether they 
are  employed  as  rural  or  domestic  workers.  In  every 
individual there is an enormous potential that needs to 
be protected and fostered. 
The  gender  perspective  that  we  need  to  promote 
should  also  be  aligned  with  key  rights  for  every 
individual  who  may  suffer  from  even  a  little  bit  of 
discrimination in this world. The women’s agenda is one 
of the most powerful vectors for development that we 
can design. Any type of discrimination involves some 
form  of  underdevelopment,  because  discrimination 
based  on  gender,  ethnicity,  religion,  disability,  sexual 
orientation or migratory status is contrary to what our 
societies need. 
Our  societies  must  be  more 
inclusive.  Our 
societies should incorporate every single one of those 
rights  into  our  political  system  and  legal  protections, 
whether they relate to the right of same-sex marriage, 
the  right  of  those  who  cohabit,  or  the  rights  of  those 
with  HIV.  It  is  essential  to  fight  for  equality  and  to 
eliminate discrimination based on sexual orientation or 
gender  identity.  All  rights  are  part  of  the  best  social 
structure  —  love.  Love  is  the  essential  factor  that 
eliminates inequality and discrimination, that makes us 
all equal and that allows us to identify with our fellow 
human beings.
The  comprehensive  human  rights  agenda  must 
be  based  on  an  increasing  number  of  rights  for  an 
increasing  number  of  people  so  that  everyone  is  able 
to grow in freedom and equality. We need to continue 
to  make  definitive  progress  on  social  topics  such  as 
communicable  and  non-communicable  diseases.  That 
includes  those  related  to  tobacco  consumption,  from 
which, as I mentioned, over 8 million people die every 
year. It is expected that that figure will continue to rise. 
It is therefore crucial that we have national policies that 
focus on healthy lifestyles.
trafficking and its disastrous consequences in society. 
We do not claim to be an example or a trailblazer, but 
we do, obviously, want to redesign the kinds of policies 
that have categorically failed to date and that have not 
produced the expected results.
The  critical  situation  in  the  world  today  with 
respect  to  food  security  is  a  structural  problem.  It  is 
the  result  of  bad  global  policies.  One  of  every  eight 
people,  many  of  them  children,  suffer  from  chronic 
malnutrition. Humankind wastes more than a third of 
all  the  food  we  produce,  which  would  be  enough  to 
resolve  the  problem  of  hunger.  It  is  estimated  that  30 
to 50 per cent of the food produced every year is never 
consumed by people, and the situation is worsening due 
to soil erosion, growing water scarcity, climate change 
and  the  improper  use  of  toxic  substances  in  the  food 
production chain.
Combating  climate  change  is  a  top  priority.  The 
need  to  implement  policies  today  and  not  put  them 
off  until  tomorrow  is  the  moral  imperative  of  every 
single  individual  in  this  Hall,  so  that  we  can  give 
concrete content to the sustainable development goals 
and continue to grow. It is also important to continue 
to  develop  civil  and  political  society,  which  we  must 
support. The principle of the legal equality of States is 
essential. That is why my country rejects, for example, 
any  coercive,  unilateral  or  extraterritorial  measures 
that contravene the norms of international law and the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
clearest example of that is the unjust blockade imposed 
against  Cuba.  We  would  like  to  once  again  express 
our  strongest  rejection  of  it.  Uruguay  would  like  to 
unequivocally demand that Cuba be stricken from the 
list of countries who harbour terrorists.
In the same vein, Uruguay would like to call for an 
end to be put to financial speculation by vulture funds. 
It  is  important  that  countries  be  able  to  restructure 
their sovereign debt in predictable, unchanging and just 
conditions  without  impacting  development  and,  thus, 
the well-being of their people.
Global  peace  and  security  are  essential.  The 
eradication  of  any  form  of  violence  in  this  world  is  a 
crucial issue. It is essential to have negotiated solutions 
that parties agree on, and contributions by peacekeeping 
missions are essential to providing maximal guarantees 
in the world.
In  2013,  Uruguay  legalized  the  sale  of  cannabis, 
choosing an alternative regulatory model to combat drug 
Human  rights  should  be  fully  respected.  They 
should  be  fully  monitored,  and  guarantees  should 
14-55187
15/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
be  provided  in  that  regard  to  every  individual.  The 
authorities  should  ensure  that  human  rights  are  fully 
monitored to ensure that their people enjoy the broadest 
possible freedoms.
Uruguay  deplores  violence  in  all  its  forms.  The 
substance  of  violence  is  bad  at  its  core.  There  is  no 
justification  for  violence  to  continue  to  spread  in  the 
world  today.  Every  time  one  right  is  undermined,  it 
is  our  responsibility,  as  those  who  govern,  to  lead 
the  fight  for  its  restoration.  Every  time  justice  is  not 
rendered, it must be our mission, as leaders, to demand 
accountability.  Every  time  we  recognize  a  new  right, 
it is our obligation to remember those who still cannot 
exercise  that  right  and  to  work  tirelessly  for  their 
benefit.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the floor to His Excellency Mr. José Badia, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Principality of Monaco.
Mr. Badia (Monaco) (spoke in French): The lofty 
aspirations  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
guided  our  first  steps  into  the  era  of  the  second 
millennium  and  enabled  us  to  realize,  in  part,  the 
priorities  that  we  hold  so  dear.  With  this  shared 
experience, which is extraordinary in terms of what it 
has  made  concrete,  and  aware  of  the  new  challenges 
that  have  been  imposed  on  us  over  the  past  15  years, 
we now have clear lessons on which to build the future 
we want. We now know that peace and development are 
inseparable.
The future to which we all aspire can be understood 
on three levels, based on the three pillars of sustainable 
development that command our attention equally. The 
work  we  have  started  on  defining  the  post-2015  era, 
by  its  very  nature  and  given  the  challenges  it  poses, 
merits  committed  efforts  by  the  entire  international 
community,  which  have  already  been  undertaken. 
Indeed, it requires a contribution by all States and all 
parts of society, including the private sector, academia, 
philanthropy 
non-governmental 
organizations. It also must be, as a matter of ethics but 
also to ensure its viability, inclusive, participatory and 
based on good governance.
obviously, 
and, 
Those are therefore the bases for defining the post-
2015 era, despite the glaring paradoxes and the many 
obstacles  we  unfortunately  face.  At  a  time  when  the 
world  is  highly  interdependent,  its  communications 
technology  performing  as  never  before  and  its  riches 
abundant, inequalities continue to grow, and too many 
of  us  remain  marginalized  and  live  in  unacceptable 
conditions.
Inevitable climate change, which is recognized as 
the greatest challenge of our time, will decide the fate of 
our planet and darkens our future prospects by already 
threatening our present. Conflicts persist, while others 
are born, and terrorist acts lead to a range of problems 
that challenge traditional defence strategies. This past 
year, existing and new conflicts have escalated towards 
an unacceptable level. The Monegasque authorities can 
only  reiterate  their  commitment  to  the  values    of  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and join the efforts of those who seek a peaceful 
and political settlement of the crisis in Ukraine.
The use of chemical weapons in Syria and the assault 
on civilian targets in Syria, Iraq, the Gaza Strip, South 
Sudan, Mali, the Central African Republic and Nigeria 
have  spread  horror  and  are  barbarous  practices.  They 
are intolerable. That is why the Government of Monaco 
condemned  acts  of  abject  violence  by  supporting  the 
adoption of Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) last 
week,  which  establishes  a  new  legislative  and  policy 
framework  to  coordinate  international  efforts  to  fight 
against the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters.
The  Principality  shares  the  grief  of  the  French, 
British  and  American  peoples  following  the  heinous 
killings  of  their  nationals  who  were  held  hostage.  In 
memory of those victims, His Serene Highness Prince 
Albert II asked that flags at administrative buildings and 
Monegasque public institutions be flown at half-mast. 
Those  who  commit  such  heinous  crimes  in  the  name 
of a religion they blaspheme annihilate the foundation 
of our society by violating the rule of law and respect 
for the standards that we have developed together. They 
use  communications  networks  and  social  networks, 
which we might think would be used to spread harmony 
and unity, to spread hatred and chaos. We have reason 
to wonder about their motivations and the reasons that 
make their appeal so convincing.
The response is obviously rooted in exclusion and 
the marginalization of people who have not yet benefited 
from  what  we  call  progress.  It  often  involves  young 
people  without  prospects  for  the  future.  Therefore, 
it  is  our  responsibility  to  design  inclusive  social 
integration  policies,  promoting  education  and  youth 
employment. Young people have never formed such a 
large proportion of the world population — particularly 
in developing countries. They must be an integral part 
16/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
of the decision-making process in order to allow them 
to realize their human potential.
We  welcome,  in  that  respect,  the  “Rights  Up 
Front” initiative of the Secretary-General, launched in 
November  2013,  whose  primary  objective  is  to  make 
sure that human rights violations do not become mass 
crimes  and  to  enable  the  Organization  to  act  more 
quickly by placing people at the heart of its strategies 
and operational activities.
On  the  eve  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  2005 
Summit,  and  especially  as  memories  of  sinister 
genocides  come  to  mind,  we  must  do  a  better  job  of 
promoting  the  responsibility  to  protect.  That  is  the 
primary responsibility of every State, as we know, but 
we also need to be able to help States for which capacity-
building is difficult. Prevention remains a fundamental 
aspect of our Organization’s work. In that regard, the 
involvement of regional and subregional organizations 
is  essential  to  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
protection  of  populations  from  genocide,  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  promotion  and 
protection of human rights must be at the heart of our 
policies.  Prince  Al-Hussein  has  our  full  confidence. 
With  his  experience  and  his  unwavering  commitment 
to peace and the rule of law, he can be the right United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights for our 
times.
Another  aspect  also  deserves  emphasis  —  the 
delivery of humanitarian assistance in conflict zones. 
It  must  not  depend  on  the  political  context.  The 
politicization  of  humanitarian  assistance  should  be 
a  priority  item  for  discussion  at  the  global  summit  in 
2016.
In the light of the increasing number and persistence 
of crisis areas, caused both by conflicts and by natural 
disasters, whose frequency we now associate with the 
rate of climate change, we must take into consideration 
the needs of over 50 million people. The magnitude of 
those  needs  justifies  the  new  partnerships  that  have 
been formed around organizations, local partners and 
the private sector and individuals.
The unprecedented threat of the Ebola virus in West 
Africa is testing our ability to respond in an effective 
and coordinated manner. We support the establishment 
by 
the  United  Nations 
Mission for Ebola Emergency Response to counter the 
large-scale  threat  Ebola  poses  to  international  peace 
and security. In that regard, I wish to acknowledge the 
the  Secretary-General  of 
commitment  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco,  which  is 
effectively contributing to that unprecedented struggle, 
together  with  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the 
International Committee of the Red Cross. We share in 
the grief of the victims and that of their families. We 
are aware that the families’ tragedies are compounded 
and their pain is made   unbearable by the fact that they 
are unable to take care of their loved ones or provide 
proper funerals for those who die.
In these difficult times, we need to establish a new 
post-2015 sustainable development paradigm. Universal, 
inclusive, ambitious and concrete, it must accommodate 
the  pressures  of  a  growing  global  population  and  the 
urbanization that comes with it. It requires us to adapt 
our methods of production, consumption and transport 
and to opt for clean technologies. We need to define the 
nature of the world we want to live in, with and for our 
children. As I mentioned earlier, it is vital that the needs 
of the most vulnerable be duly taken into consideration 
and that economic independence for women and young 
people be ensured. It is time for women to realize the 
transformation  that  the  Secretary-General  announced 
by breaking through the glass ceiling that for too long 
has kept them from achieving their potential. Without 
the full contribution of those who constitute 50 per cent 
of  humankind,  sustainable  development  will  not  be 
achieved.
The  year  2015  will  also  mark  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1325 (2000), on women, peace and security. 
We reiterate our call to end impunity for crimes related 
to sexual and gender-based violence against women, as 
well as all the abuse women suffer.
The undeniable success of the Climate Summit should 
be measured not only by the commitments announced, 
but also by the broad participation of the private sector,  
foundations  and  civil  society  and  by  the  sense  of 
ownership expressed by all the stakeholders concerned. 
The Summit therefore succeeded in catalysing society 
as a whole, thus ensuring that the political momentum 
will be maintained in Lima and Paris. As the issue of 
climate change cannot be separated from the question 
of  the  oceans,  the  Prince’s  Government  will  continue 
to  defend  an  objective  of  sustainable  development 
dedicated to healthy and productive oceans for all. The 
Assembly may rest assured that Monaco will engage in 
discussions, which will begin in January, and we will 
continue, in both national and international policies, to 
act as a responsible and unifying partner.
14-55187
17/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Samura  Kamara,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Sierra 
Leone.
Mr.  Kamara  (Sierra  Leone):  I  bring  to  the 
Assembly  fraternal  greetings  and  best  wishes  from 
Mr.  Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Sierra  Leone,  and  his  beleaguered  people.  President 
Koroma deeply regrets that, for obvious reasons, he is 
unable  to  participate  in  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General Assembly. He has, however, instructed me to 
deliver to the Assembly this message from him:
“I congratulate the President on being elected 
to conduct the affairs of the sixty-ninth session of 
the  Assembly  and  assure  him  of  the  support  and 
cooperation  of  my  country,  Sierra  Leone,  during 
his  tenure.  To  his  predecessor,  Ambassador  John 
Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  let  me,  on  behalf 
of  my  Government  and  people,  express  our 
appreciation  for  his  astute  leadership  and  skill  in 
smoothly directing the work of the past session of 
the General Assembly.
“My  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation  go  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his constructive 
and dynamic leadership of the Organization. Sierra 
Leone deeply appreciates his forward-looking and 
laudable  initiatives  on  the  issues  of  sustainable 
energy  and  climate  change,  among  others.  In 
particular,  I  appreciate  his  robust  response  to  the 
Ebola  epidemic  that  is  causing  so  much  havoc  in 
our lives and threatening our dignity and our very 
existence. We will continue to support those highly 
ambitious and commendable initiatives for a better 
and safer world.
“Sierra  Leone  commends  the  President  on 
the  choice,  appropriateness  and  sense  of  urgency 
of  the  theme  of  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  and  we  join  him  in  calling 
for  a  structured  dialogue,  strengthened  global 
partnership  and  enhanced  cooperation  for  its 
achievement.  Sierra  Leone  wishes  to  reiterate  the 
need to generate the required global political will 
to  address  unfinished  business  in  the  context  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by 
focusing  on  implementation  gaps  and  new  and 
emerging challenges. As Chair of the small Group 
of  Seven  Plus  States,  Sierra  Leone  reaffirms  the 
call of this group of fragile and post-conflict States 
for the support of goal 16 of the outcome document 
of  the  Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Goal 16 is one of 17 priorities 
of the post-2015 development agenda and envisages 
promoting peaceful and inclusive institutions as a 
stand-alone aim.
“My country is battling one of the biggest life-or-
death challenges facing the global community. As 
I  stated  in  my  address  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
high-level meeting on response to the Ebola virus 
disease outbreak, Ebola is unlike previous threats, 
not because something similar has never occurred 
before, but because the Ebola outbreak has mutated 
into  a  phenomenon  for  which  my  country,  my 
region and the global community were grossly ill-
prepared. Isolated communities are becoming less 
frequent  in  our  globalized  world.  Mutating  viral 
diseases like Ebola can no longer be neatly isolated 
simply by sealing off a country in a corner of the 
world. The Ebola outbreak in our region provides 
the first challenge to infrastructure, human capital 
and  public  health  and  surveillance  systems  that 
are  too  weak  to  deal  with  the  faster  occurrences 
of 
human-to-human 
transmissions  of  highly  contagious  diseases  that 
have been made possible by quicker transportation, 
increasing  urbanization  and  dense  networks  of 
people moving between rural and urban areas and 
across borders.
animal-to-human, 
and 
“We have been slow to meet this new challenge 
because no one recognized that this confluence of 
trends  could  emerge  with  such  virulence  in  West 
Africa.  Our  international  partners  were  slow  to 
recognize  the  threat  for  what  it  was,  and  when 
recognition  did  come,  it  was  accompanied  by  a 
spontaneous reaction of fear and panic that led to 
the closure of borders and the imposition of travel 
restrictions  to  and  from  Sierra  Leone  and  our 
subregion.
infrastructure, 
implementing  policies 
“This is the very first time Ebola has come to 
our  region  and  to  my  country,  Sierra  Leone.  We 
did  not  bring  it  on  ourselves.  We  are  rebuilding 
our 
that 
were  increasing  our  growth  rates,  improving  our 
health-care  and  literacy  indicators,  enhancing 
our  peace,  and  strengthening  our  democracy. 
We  are  contributing  troops  to  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations in other lands, as our share 
of the peace dividend. The world was lauding us for 
doing so many things right, for being a symbol of 
18/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
“Several  months  down 
fast-paced recovery from a decade-long devastating 
civil conflict, for promoting and protecting human 
rights, and for advancing along an impressive path 
of socioeconomic reconstruction. We were gearing 
up  our  health-care  system  to  fight  the  known 
ailments  of  our  land,  such  as  malaria,  maternal 
and  infant  mortality,  Lassa  fever,  tuberculosis 
and  typhoid,  when  Ebola  struck.  Based  on  the 
knowledge  we  had,  based  on  the  advice  we  were 
given by our international partners, we mobilized 
to  meet  this  unfamiliar  threat.  But  the  staff, 
equipment,  medicines  and  systems  we  had  were 
inadequate, and this slowed our effective response.
the 
international community has finally come around 
to the view that the Ebola outbreak is a challenge 
for everyone, and that, while Sierra Leone and its 
sister  republics  are  at  the  front  line  of  this  fight, 
the  heavy  aerial  and  ground  support  of  the  world 
are  required  to  defeat  the  outbreak,  for  Ebola  is 
in many ways worse than terrorism. As a country, 
we  have  taken  extraordinary  measures,  including 
declaring a state of emergency and shutting down 
the country for three days to get health educators 
into every household in the country. Today, most of 
our people know that Ebola may present with the 
same signs as malaria, typhoid, diarrhoea and other 
infectious diseases, but that it is far more deadly, 
and  that  there  is  a  need  to  modify  behaviour  in 
order to counter its transmission.
the 
road, 
“Socioeconomic disruptions are already being 
felt. We are no longer able to engage in our cultural 
practices,  such  as  shaking  hands  when  we  gladly 
receive each other, or hold religious and communal 
burial  ceremonies.  Our  people  live  in  fear  and 
cannot  understand  the  nature  of  a  disease  that 
claims  lives  and  prevents  family  members  from 
burying their loved ones.
“The 
indeterminate  suspension  of  several 
ongoing  development  projects,  and  the  disruption 
to  farming,  mining,  manufacturing,  construction, 
tourism, trading and public transportation, following 
the  outbreak  of  Ebola,  are  now  undermining  the 
growth  and  human  development  prospects  of  the 
country.  The  International  Monetary  Fund  has 
estimated  that  our  gross  domestic  product  will 
drop by 3.3 per cent in 2014 from 11.3 per cent to 
8 per cent. Ebola has placed a stranglehold on the 
socioeconomic  prospects  of  the  country,  and,  in 
addition, we risk reversing the hard gains achieved 
in peacebuilding.
“We  salute  the  great  efforts  of  countries,  as 
well  as  international  and  national  organizations, 
that  have  committed  resources  to  our  common 
fight.  We  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  landmark 
Security  Council  resolution  2177  (2014)  and  its 
General  Assembly  counterpart,  resolution  69/1, 
both  of  which  recognize  the  Ebola  outbreak  as  a 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  We 
also salute the Secretary-General for his initiative 
in  establishing 
the  first-ever  United  Nations 
emergency  health  mission,  the  United  Nations 
Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response,  to  lead 
a concerted and coordinated effort to contain and 
defeat this scourge within the subregion.
“We  know  that  to  defeat  the  disease  and 
prevent future outbreaks anywhere in the world, we 
must improve our capacities for quicker response. 
In Sierra Leone, this calls for faster deployment of 
staff,  medicines  and  equipment  at  the  global  and 
national  levels.  Globally,  a  faster  response  means 
quickening  the  pace  of  resource  mobilization 
and disbursements, as well as the development of 
vaccines  and  curative  medicines.  Nationally,  our 
effort  must  rapidly  translate  into  effective  urban 
and  rural  community  response  initiatives.  Any 
break  in  this  chain  of  fast  response  makes  the 
challenge more difficult to meet, and not meeting 
the challenge means more deaths in our country and 
the increased possibility that the virus will mutate 
and  spread  to  areas  from  which  it  is  currently 
absent.
“The  world  needs  a  faster  global  response 
infrastructure  to  deal  with  this  new  trend  that 
is  today  manifesting  itself  in  the  West  African 
nations of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, but to 
which no country can be immune. Ebola is winning 
the race against us. To make an impactful start in 
reversing this trend, we must have more treatment 
beds  than  there  are  Ebola  cases.  Only  when  the 
number of available beds surpasses the number of 
cases can we say that Ebola has been brought under 
control. This is a fight for all of us. We must prove 
that  humankind  is  equal  to  overcoming  this  new 
challenge to our collective existence.
“We  also  believe  that  it  is  high  time  for  this 
Assembly  to  make  its  voice  heard  regarding  the 
flight bans and cancellations that have accompanied 
14-55187
19/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
the  deadly  Ebola  outbreak.  The  World  Health 
Organization and many others have advised against 
imposing  blanket  flight  bans.  We  therefore  urge 
Member  States  to  re-examine  their  policies  of 
isolating and stigmatizing Ebola-affected countries 
and  their  respective  citizens.  The  world  is  too 
globalized for policies that shun engagement with a 
democratic nation. The United Nations was founded 
on  a  mandate  to  confront  human  insecurity,  not 
shun it. Moreover, this Organization was founded 
on  the  principle  of  doing  better  than  before.  We 
strongly urge loyalty to the founding ideals of our 
global Organization.
“Despite  the  daunting  challenge  facing  us  as 
a  nation  and  subregion,  Sierra  Leone  will  remain 
a trusted and strategic partner in the global effort 
to  eradicate  poverty  and  achieve  sustainable 
peace, stability and development. My Government 
is  committed  to  forging  closer  bonds  with  all 
countries, especially within the context of the New 
Deal for Engagement in Fragile States.
“As  Coordinator  of 
the  African  Union 
Committee of Ten Heads of State on the Reform of 
the United Nations, we will continue to advance the 
African Common Position on the reform process of 
the  United  Nations  by  reaching  out  and  engaging 
with other interest groups in a bid to reach a common 
understanding of how to obtain a strong, inclusive, 
united, 
transparent  and  accountable  Security 
Council.  While  the  world  now  acknowledges  the 
historical  injustice  represented  by  the  fact  that 
Africa  is  the  only  continent  not  represented  in 
the  permanent  category  of  Council  membership 
and,  at  the  same  time,  is  underrepresented  in  the 
non-permanent  category,  it  is  about  time  for  this 
Organization to take the necessary bold steps to put 
into practice our reaffirmation of the equal rights 
of nations, large and small. Indeed, as we gear up 
to  celebrate  70  memorable  years  of  the  existence 
of  the  United  Nations,  it  is  an  appropriate  time 
for  the  Organization  to  promote  the  principle  of 
the  sovereign  equality  of  all  its  Members  and  to 
ensure for all the rights and benefits resulting from 
membership.
“We  are  encouraged  by  the  progress  made  in 
strengthening peace and democracy within member 
countries  of  the  Mano  River  Union,  and  we  shall 
continue  to  support  initiatives  for  the  sustenance 
and growth of democratic order, peace and security 
in  the  subregion.  We  will  continue  to  adhere  to 
the Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS)  protocols  for  peace,  democracy  and 
stability  and  will  sustain  our  support  for  the 
building of the ECOWAS logistical depot in Sierra 
Leone.  We  firmly  support  the  African  Union 
rapid  intervention  initiative  for  peacekeeping  and 
peace-support  operations.  We  have  also  ratified 
the Arms Trade Treaty and the Convention against 
Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols 
thereto.  We  are  currently  working  to  incorporate 
them into our domestic law.
“My  Government  will  continue  to  contribute 
troops  and  support  international  peacekeeping 
operations for international peace and security, and 
we  will  accordingly  seek  capacity-building  and 
other  support  in  such  laudable  ventures.  We  are, 
however,  dismayed  by  the  current  trend  of  events 
in South Sudan, the Central African Republic, the 
Gaza Strip, Syria, Ukraine, Iraq and other parts of 
the world that are still in conflict. We will commit 
Sierra  Leone  to  the  global  search  for  common 
agreement  on  the  root  causes  of  those  conflicts 
and  encourage  dialogue  to  work  out  resolutions 
that are peaceful and sustainable. We support the 
two  independent  States  solution  in  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.
“Sierra  Leone  condemns  any  act  of  terrorism 
in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  in  the  world 
in  general  and  in  Africa  in  particular.  Terrorism 
is  a  common  enemy  to  international  peace  and 
security. Sierra Leone prides itself on its high level 
of religious tolerance, and we believe that people of 
all religions and ethnic backgrounds must be able 
to coexist in peace and harmony everywhere in the 
world. We likewise view acts of drug trafficking, 
human 
smuggling  of  migrants, 
marine  piracy,  cybercrime,  abductions  and  all 
other  organized  or  unorganized 
transnational 
criminal  activities  as  serious  threats  to  global 
peace, stability and development. My Government 
will  strengthen  national  capacities  and  contribute 
through  international  cooperation  to  preventing 
and combating those crimes.
trafficking, 
“As  a  post-conflict  country,  we  are  aware 
that  sexual  violence  in  conflict  is  one  of  the 
greatest and most persistent injustices in the world 
today.  We  are  therefore  supportive  of  the  United 
Kingdom’s  Preventing  Sexual  Violence  Initiative 
20/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
and the subsequent Declaration of Commitment to 
End  Sexual  Violence  in  Conflict.  We  support  the 
work  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  Sexual  Violence 
in  Conflict.  We  also  fully  support  the  United 
Kingdom  Government’s  leadership  in  promoting 
global  advocacy  against  the  use  of  children  in 
armed conflicts.
“We are following the unfolding developments at 
the International Criminal Court and are supportive 
of  the  efforts  to  ensure  judicial  accountability  in 
ways  that  are  respectful  of  Africa’s  concerns  for 
the  ability  of  its  statesmen  and  stateswomen  to 
steer the countries of the continent towards greater 
security, reconciliation, peace and development.
“My  Government  will  continue  to  support 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  are 
committed to the moratorium on the death penalty 
and  have  gone  a  step  further  in  the  process  of 
commuting capital offences to life imprisonment in 
our statute books.
“In 
applauding 
conclusion,  while 
the 
international  community 
for  supporting  our 
aspirations,  we  wish  to  remind  the  world  that 
fighting  the  Ebola  virus  disease  in  West  Africa 
is  a  matter  of  life  and  death  for  the  whole  of 
humankind.  The  World  Health  Organization 
finally  got  it  right  when  it  declared  the  outbreak 
as  a  global  health  emergency,  but  an  emergency 
requires  a  response  faster  than  what  is  currently 
obtaining.  We  can  defeat  Ebola  and,  as  already 
noted  by  experts,  future  outbreaks  of  diseases 
of  that  nature  anywhere  in  the  world  can  also  be 
defeated by quickening the pace of response. Our 
understanding  of  that  unprecedented  outbreak  is 
better now than at the beginning, and our response 
has improved accordingly. While our capacities are 
getting  better  coordinated,  there  is  still  room  for 
strengthening  those  capacities  to  ensure  effective 
national ownership and leadership of all response 
mechanisms.  Undoubtedly,  we  can  do  better  than 
what obtained at the beginning of the outbreak, and 
we must do all we can to end such a grave threat 
to  our  collective  survival.  We  will  also  continue 
our engagement with all stakeholders to build our 
public health system beyond Ebola.
“On the occasion of the sixty-ninth session of 
the General Assembly, let me reiterate our deepest 
condolences to the families and relatives of all our 
brave men, women and children who have lost their 
lives  to  the  Ebola  virus  disease.  May  the  Father 
most  high  receive  their  souls  and  the  souls  of  all 
faithful departed into his merciful hands.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Augustine Kpehe Ngafuan, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Liberia.
Mr.  Ngafuan  (Liberia):  I  bring  the  Assembly 
greetings 
from  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Ellen 
Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia, 
who  should  have  been  here  today  to  address  the 
Assembly  but  chose  to  remain  on  the  front  lines  in 
Liberia to lead our fight against the deadly Ebola virus 
disease.
Liberia congratulates the President of the Assembly 
on his assumption of his high office and acknowledges 
the astute statesmanship and wisdom that he brings to 
that  important  assignment,  which  inspire  confidence 
for a successful sixty-ninth session of the Assembly. We 
assure  him  of  Liberia’s  full  cooperation  and  support. 
We  pay  a  special  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his able and visionary stewardship of the 
affairs of this global institution.
With just one year until the expiration date of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the  theme 
of this sixty-ninth general debate, “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”, could not have been more appropriate. Liberia 
was put on the pedestal of global honour when President 
Johnson-Sirleaf was selected as one of three co-chairs 
of the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-
2015  Development  Agenda,  formed  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  2012  to  advise  him  on  the  contours  of  an 
ambitious  but  realistic  post-2015  global  development 
agenda  and  to  define  the  critical  steps  required  to 
reinvigorate and sustain global partnership. The Panel’s 
report, A New Global Partnership: Eradicate Poverty and 
Transform Economies through Sustainable Development, 
contained a clarion call to leave no one behind, which 
has been embraced as a motivating theme by many.
At  the  continental  level,  our  President  chairs  a 
10-member  high-level  committee  of  African  Heads 
of  State,  under  whose  leadership  a  African  Common 
Position  has  been  developed  and  endorsed  by  the 
membership of the African Union (AU). That Position 
is  based  on  six  pillars  that  represent  Africa’s  vision 
of  the  prerequisites  for  eradicating  poverty  on  the 
continent and for ensuring its future and development. 
14-55187
21/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
into 
the  proposed  17 
We  are  encouraged  that  the  concepts  and  strategies 
defined under each of the pillars have been significantly 
incorporated 
sustainable 
development  goals.  That  makes  us  optimistic  that  the 
substance  of  our  pillars  will  form  an  integral  part  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  As  we  await  the 
Secretary-General’s  synthesizing  report,  I  can  assure 
the Assembly of Liberia’s continued active participation 
in the negotiations that lie ahead.
As  we  survey  the  regional  and  international 
political  landscape,  we  are  increasingly  concerned 
about  the  spread  of  extremist  ideologies  and  terrorist 
activities  around  the  world,  especially  in  Africa. 
Whether  we  are  speaking  of  Al-Shabaab  in  Somalia 
and Kenya, Al-Qaida in the Maghreb or Boko Haram 
in Nigeria, the African continent has not been spared 
the deadly and destructive consequences of extremism. 
Additionally, over the past year, while peace processes 
were being consolidated in many African countries, we 
have been sad witnesses to the eruption or exacerbation 
of  conflicts  on  the  continent,  notably  in  South  Sudan 
and the Central African Republic. We laud the efforts 
of  the  AU  and  the  United  Nations  to  resolve  those 
conflicts, and join in the call for sustained international 
action to bring about a more secure and peaceful world.
Liberia  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
convening, last week, of the high-level Climate Summit, 
which  elicited  concrete  commitments  from  the  global 
community on reducing greenhouse emissions and other 
measures aimed at achieving sustainable development. 
As a small country and one that is still endowed with 
43 per cent of the remaining Guinea forests, we are proud 
that we too have concluded partnership agreements and 
made  concrete  commitments  aimed  at  supporting  the 
goals  of  sustainable,  climate-sensitive  development. 
Small  countries 
to 
greenhouse  emissions  but  suffer  disproportionately 
from the adverse impact of climate change. To right that 
anomaly and in the united spirit of saving our one world, 
all countries, big and small, should make proportionate 
commitments  to  saving  our  planet  and  take  concrete 
action to make such commitments a reality.
like  Liberia  contribute 
less 
A  year  ago,  when  President  Johnson-Sirleaf 
addressed  the  Assembly  (see  A/68/PV.6),  it  was  with 
a  more  positive  message  from  a  President  reporting 
significant  achievements  and  lofty  aspirations  for  the 
future.  President  Johnson-Sirleaf,  full  of  gratitude, 
informed  the  world  that  Liberia  had  just  celebrated 
10 years of peace in August 2013, and that, despite some 
challenges, was still registering remarkable progress on 
the  path  of  socioeconomic  development.  The  country 
had  transitioned  from  an  emphasis  on  stabilization  to 
a  focus  on  transformation  within  the  framework  of 
a  long-term  development  agenda,  Vision  2030.  The 
President also informed the Assembly that the countries 
of  the  Mano  River  Basin  Union  —  Liberia,  Guinea, 
Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Sierra  Leone  —  were  at  peace  and 
were  pursuing  regional  integration  through  initiatives 
that  would  facilitate  connectivity  within  their  power 
and  transport  systems,  thereby  enhancing  the  cross-
border  trade  in  which  our  market  women  are  mostly 
engaged. She even reported on how a small contingent 
of  Liberian  peacekeepers,  who  are  still  in  Mali 
today, had contributed to the laudable United Nations 
peacekeeping  efforts  there,  creating  an  environment 
conducive to stability and democratic transition in that 
country.
One year later, as I address the Assembly, I am the 
purveyor of a different kind of story, and a sad one. Over 
the past six months, a dark cloud has been hanging over 
the Liberian landscape, such that instead of reporting 
economic growth, we are constrained to report economic 
decline. The implementation of virtually all the pillars 
of our Agenda for Transformation has been placed on 
hold,  and  gains  are  perhaps  already  being  reversed. 
Instead  of  devoting  attention  to  regional  integration 
through the facilitation of power and transport projects, 
we  are  talking  about  regional  cooperation  in  dealing 
with  a  deadly  enemy.  The  market  women  who  traded 
goods and services across borders a year ago are now 
constrained to remain within those borders and suffer 
the consequences of economic inactivity.
The  deadly  enemy  that  has  visited  so  much  harm 
and  misery  on  my  country  and  our  neighbours  is  the 
Ebola  virus  disease,  which  began  wreaking  havoc  in 
Liberia in March. Since the outbreak, the Government of 
Liberia has taken a host of measures. We have declared 
a  state  of  emergency  and  suspended  schools,  and, 
with the constructive involvement of all stakeholders, 
including pastors, imams, chiefs, elders, young people, 
Government  officials  and  opposition  politicians,  we 
have stepped up awareness and prevention campaigns 
to address the rigid denial and deeply rooted traditional 
and cultural practices that create fertile ground for the 
spread of the disease. We have also committed and will 
continue  to  commit  significant  portions  of  our  own 
paltry resources to the fight.
22/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
In spite of such efforts, which have been buttressed by 
those of our partners, Ebola has confounded all of us and 
has sprinted faster than our collective efforts, snuffing 
out the life candle of more than 1,800 of our compatriots, 
with  a  total  of  nearly  3,500  infected.  Cumulatively, 
women, as the majority among our health workforce and 
the  main  caregivers  in  our  deeply  traditional  society, 
have been disproportionately affected. Sadly, as Ebola 
widens its deadly circumference, it is creating a trail of 
traumatized orphans across the country, which includes 
a  10-year-old  child  from  Barkedu,  Lofa  county,  who 
is  the  last  person  standing  from  a  family  of  12.  Our 
already limited pool of health workers has been further 
reduced, because 89 of them have fallen victim to the 
virus, out of a total of 182 infected.
The resulting panic that has arisen in health workers 
who see their colleagues die from Ebola has precipitated 
the closure of many health facilities across the country. 
As we and our many international partners struggle to 
douse  the  wildfire  caused  by  Ebola,  we  are  left  with 
inadequate resources, time and personnel to attend to 
routine  illnesses  such  as  malaria,  typhoid  fever  and 
measles, thereby causing many more, tangential deaths. 
An increasing number of pregnant women are dying in 
the process of bringing forth life. In short, our public 
health  system,  which  totally  collapsed  during  our 
years of conflict and was being gradually rebuilt, has 
collapsed again under the weight of the deadly virus.
Ebola is not just a health crisis; it is a total crisis. It is 
an economic crisis, a social crisis and a potential political 
and  security  crisis.  Indeed,  its  deleterious  impact  has 
been very wide and very deep. On the economic front, 
it  has  occasioned  a  3.4  per  cent  downward  slide  in 
economic  growth  in  Liberia,  and  some  experts  have 
predicted that, if not contained quickly, it could cause a 
12 per cent decline in our economy in 2015. As a result 
of  the  slowdown  in  economic  activities,  our  revenue 
generation  capacity  has  been  seriously  undermined, 
thereby constricting our ability to provide basic social 
services  and  to  continue  to  fund  key  development 
projects. The suspension of flights as well as the travel 
and other restrictions and sanctions imposed on Liberia 
and  other  affected  countries  despite  expert  advice  to 
the contrary from the World Health Organization and 
others,  have  not  only  undermined  the  humanitarian 
efforts  aimed  at  quickly  containing  the  disease,  but 
have  also  aggravated  the  adverse  economic  effects  of 
the Ebola crisis.
As destructive as the Liberian civil conflict was, at 
least our people knew the warring factions and the front 
lines.  With  Ebola,  the  enemy  is  more  insidious,  and 
there  are  no  clear-cut  front  lines,  because  someone’s 
child,  someone’s  husband  or  someone’s  workmate 
could actually be the enemy and in the front line at the 
same time. That difficult feature of the disease, coupled 
with a host of other challenges, has occasioned its rapid 
spread.  We  are  heartened  that,  as  a  result  of  separate 
and joint appeals of the heads of State of Liberia, Sierra 
Leone and Guinea to the Secretary-General and leaders 
of friendly countries and institutions, the international 
community  is  showing  a  better  appreciation  of  the 
unprecedented  scope  and  magnitude  of  the  Ebola 
outbreak in our countries. There is a chorus of leaders 
advocating  and  committing  to  support  more  robust, 
scaled up and urgent assistance to the affected countries.
the  Secretary-General  and  other 
world  leaders,  the  past  few  weeks  have  witnessed  a 
host  of  positive  developments  that  constitute  a  major 
heightening of focus and scaling up of the international 
response. Those developments include the following.
Thanks 
to 
First, we welcome the announcement by President 
Barak Obama of the United States of his Government’s 
decision to scale up assistance to the region, including 
the deployment of 3,000 military and medical personnel 
to help us with the fight.
Secondly,  the  Security  Council  meeting  held  on 
18 September 2014 (see S/PV.7268), under the leadership 
and  Council  presidency  of  the  United  States,  adopted 
resolution  2177  (2014),  which  recognizes  the  Ebola 
crisis  as  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security, 
necessitating  a  strong  and  concerted  international 
response  through  firm  commitments  of  support.  The 
resolution  also  called  on  Member  States  to  lift  travel 
and other restrictions imposed on affected countries.
Thirdly, 
the  Secretary-General  announced  on 
18  September  his  intention  to  establish  the  United 
Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response, which 
was  formally  endorsed  by  Assembly  resolution  69/1, 
submitted by the President and adopted on 19 September.
Fourthly, we have seen the start of the deployment 
by  the  African  Union  of  contingents  of  medical  and 
relevant personnel drawn from across Africa to Liberia 
and other worst-affected countries.
Fifthly, the high-level meeting on response to the 
Ebola virus disease outbreak, convened at Headquarters 
14-55187
23/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
by the Secretary-General on 25 September, witnessed 
announcements  of 
commitments  of 
assistance by many countries.
substantial 
Those  concrete  demonstrations  of  solidarity  have 
taken  many  forms,  and  we  are  deeply  grateful  for  all 
of  them.  They  should,  however,  not  lead  us  towards 
complacency,  because  we  definitely  have  not  yet 
achieved the 20-fold increase in response recommended 
by  the  experts  to  contain  the  disease.  Additionally, 
while  we  struggle  with  the  first  war,  which  involves 
actually disrupting the transmission of Ebola, we must 
begin  to  prepare  for  the  second  war  of  tackling  the 
long-term  socioeconomic  impacts  of  the  Ebola  crisis, 
including building and creating the capacity for a new 
health  system  that  can  robustly  deal  with  any  future 
health  challenge,  and  raising  the  resources  needed  to 
address  a  legion  of  socioeconomic,  political,  security 
and other challenges made more acute by the presence 
of Ebola.
We are also cognizant of the positive contributions 
of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  (UNMIL), 
which  has  helped  us  enjoy  10  years  of  peace.  The 
presence of UNMIL in Liberia, especially at a time when 
we were experiencing isolation, has helped to reassure 
our people and create a security climate conducive to 
tackling  some  of  the  multifaceted  challenges  of  the 
Ebola  crisis.  Therefore,  the  continued  engagement 
of  UNMIL  in  Liberia  will  be  critical  to  enabling 
Liberia’s transition from the Ebola crisis to resume the 
implementation of strategies for the achievement of our 
long-term development agenda.
Ebola is a difficult enemy that has frustrated and 
bypassed our collective efforts in the past, causing some 
experts to project that, in a worst case scenario, about 
1.4 million precious lives could be lost in our countries 
by January 2015. In spite of the gloom of today — and 
as Liberians ponder the question: “Will I, my wife, my 
husband, my child, my friend or my workmate be one of 
those to populate the 1.4 million doomsday statistics?”— 
we  should  not  sink  into  defeatism.  Instead,  President 
Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and the resilient Liberian people 
feel  that  Ebola  has  presented  us  with  a  one-option, 
multiple-choice  test,  and  that  option  is  to  fight  back. 
And we are fighting back.
As  President  Johnson-Sirleaf  aptly  put  it  in  her 
17  September  update  to  the  people  of  Liberia  on  the 
Ebola crisis:
“I believe in the Liberian people. I believe that 
we are stronger than the greatest threat with which 
we  are  currently  faced.  And  1  believe  we  will 
prevail.  The  war  did  not  defeat  us,  a  completely 
destroyed  economy —  the  greatest  collapse  since 
World War II — did not defeat us. Ebola will not 
defeat us”.
We know that the road ahead may be long, curvy 
and hilly. But with bigger, bolder, timely and sustained 
efforts  on  our  part,  buttressed  by  the  international 
community, we are sure that dawn will soon break on 
this long, dark night occasioned by the Ebola virus.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellence  Mr.  Nickolas  Steele, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Business 
of Grenada.
Mr.  Steele  (Grenada):  I  would  like,  first  of  all, 
to  thank  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  for 
his  sterling  efforts  in  presiding  over  the  sixty-eighth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  in  a  year  that  was 
dedicated  to  island  States  around  the  world.  Let  me 
also  congratulate  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  and  welcome  him 
as  the  incoming  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  He  can  count  on  Grenada’s 
support to contribute to the deliberations in a positive 
and meaningful way.
As we gather here in New York yet again, we can 
celebrate the remarkable history of our institution in this 
beautifully  refurbished  United  Nations  Headquarters. 
I  wish  to  put  on  record  Grenada’s  appreciation  to  the 
donors  who  contributed  and  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  leadership  on  this  project.  With  its  large  open 
spaces  and  glass  façade,  the  building’s  design  speaks 
to  our  ideals  of  transparency,  openness  and  dialogue. 
The  building’s  mid-twentieth-century  features  recall 
the spirit of an age when space was the new frontier.
The  space  age  has  given  way  to  a  new  and 
exciting  information  age.  Today,  a  young  girl  armed 
with  a  smartphone  in  Gujarat,  India,  can  Google  the 
same satellite images of our planet as a child in Great 
Britain.  Exposed  to  the  right  ideas  on  the  Internet, 
children  —  whether  in  Greensboro  in  the  United 
States,  or  Grenoble  in  France,  or  Grenada  in  the 
Caribbean  —  can  have  the  same  seeds  of  hope,  the 
same  aspirations  for  happiness  and  personal  growth, 
and the same sense of duty towards neighbourhood and 
planet. For aspiring young people everywhere, coming 
of age is symbolized by ownership, not of a car, but of 
24/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
a mobile phone or a computer tablet. Those are today’s 
vehicles  on  the  information  highway  for  the  world’s 
youth seeking ideas, identity and connectedness.
We come to the United Nations today to feel that 
sense  of  connectedness  amid  the  chaos  of  today’s 
challenges. We come to these refurbished Headquarters 
to  renew  our  commitment  to  peace  and  security  and 
to revitalize our mission, not to the stars, but to work 
for a safer planet with shared prosperity for all. Today, 
in  this  iconic  Hall,  it  is  too  soon  to  say  “mission 
accomplished”,  but  for  the  most  part,  our  original 
mission for dialogue and the rule of law among abiding 
nations has been accomplished.
Sitting here among ourselves, we are, for the most 
part,  preaching  to  the  converted.  The  long-standing 
conflict between Israel and Palestine has given way to a 
realization that the only viable solution is the two-State 
solution.  Moreover,  sworn  enemies  in  this  Hall  now 
confer  on  how  to  tackle  much  more  sinister  enemies 
of peace.
Those  new  enemies  have  no  flags  fluttering 
proudly  outside,  nor  electronic  nameplates  inside. 
They are not here in our space-age Hall; they are out 
there  in  cyberspace,  a  place  where  violence  and  hate 
in isolated corners can spread like wildfire across the 
globe. Captured on mobile phones and uploaded to the 
Internet,  gruesome  images  from  a  remote  backstreet 
can  inflict  fear  in  the  hearts  of  ordinary  citizens  on 
Main Street everywhere.
The shocking beheadings we see in the media are 
the weeping ooze from the cancerous underbelly of our 
world today. They are the symptoms of an insidious and 
pervasive unease eating away at the very foundations 
on which this great institution was built. And with each 
new  escalation  of  violence,  we  feel  a  sense  of  horror 
not only at the acts themselves but perhaps more at our 
inability to act.
War  and  insecurity  in  the  information  age  have 
mutated  so  much  that  neither  our  resolutions,  our 
agencies nor our armies are enough to break the fever 
of  this  viral  menace  of  transnational  actors.  And  so, 
looking beyond our Capital Master Plan that reimagines 
our  twentieth-century  beginnings,  let  us  build  a  new 
Information Master Plan fit for the twenty-first century 
with electronic highways that will one day connect this 
Hall to every child in every village.
The information age is a new season in the arc of our 
institution’s history — a new season in which everyone 
has a voice, be they the youths of the Arab Spring or the 
Occupiers of Wall Street’s winter of discontent. Today’s 
information  age  brings  a  new  transparency  between 
the haves and the have-nots — between the 1 per cent 
and the 99 per cent. Whether segmented by class, race, 
religion or political affiliation, inequality is the disease 
of our times, contributing to the political eruptions all 
over the world.
We now have — for the first time — documented 
evidence of the root causes of the growing inequalities 
in society. A new economic treatise, entitled Capital in 
the Twenty-First Century, by Thomas Piketty, analyses 
over  a  century  of  economic  data  and  concludes  that 
the  rich  are  getting  richer,  faster  than  everyone  else. 
But there are two things that reduce income inequality. 
The first is the distribution of knowledge that promotes 
growth. The second is war, which destroys capital. The 
first option is a rising tide that lifts all ships; the second 
is  a  sinking  stone  that  drowns  all  hope  —  the  very 
antithesis of this Organization.
We must focus more of our global policy on proactive 
interventions that promote sustainable growth. We must 
encourage economic growth by distributing knowledge 
through  education,  information  and  communication 
technology,  as  well  as  through  skills  and  technology 
transfers.  We  do  indeed  need  an  Information  Master 
Plan  if  we  are  to  proactively  confront  threats  in  the 
twenty-first century.
The  World  Development  Report  2011:  Conflict, 
Security and Development, published by the World Bank, 
acknowledges that development agencies have not yet 
fully adapted to the needs of the twenty-first century 
and that they do not yet have the capacity to adequately 
help  fragile  States.  It  finds  that  unemployment  is  the 
number-one  reason  for  youths  to  join  criminal  gangs 
and contending armies. It reminds us that investing in 
citizen security, justice and jobs is essential to reducing 
violence. We know that once mass violence takes root 
in a society, it can take a generation or more to recover.
As  we  look  around  at  the  violence  in  the  world 
today,  I  ask  the  question:  can  our  twentieth-century 
institutions  cope  with  twenty-first-century  shocks? 
Do  we  have  the  courage  to  be  proactive  in  fostering 
jobs and growth, or will we wait until violence erupts? 
This year’s World Development Report 2014 is all about 
managing  opportunity  and  managing  risk,  from  the 
level of the household to the level of the international 
community.  The  essence  of  the  report  is  that  the 
14-55187
25/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
benefits  of  proactive  preparation  can  outweigh  the 
costs of responding retroactively.
The  risks  from  climate  shocks  are  among  the 
most  terrifying  for  Grenada  and  for  islands  around 
the  world.  Grenada  places  on  record  its  appreciation 
for the Secretary-General’s leadership in calling for a 
Climate Summit. In the last four years alone, we have 
seen  floods  raging  across  the  world.  With  the  hottest 
temperatures on record in recent years, forest fires have 
raged across almost all continents, devouring millions 
of acres of forest land, causing damages in the tens of 
billions of dollars. Glacial retreats from the Andes to 
the  Himalayas  and  from  Greenland  to  Antarctica  are 
moving at record speeds. We are seeing hurricanes and 
cyclones as never before.
Two years ago, right here in New York, Hurricane 
Sandy struck and disabled the economic engine of the 
United States. It caused $68 billion worth of damage. 
But  this  represents  less  than  1  per  cent  of  the  gross 
domestic product (GDP) of the United States in contrast 
with  the  island  States,  where  damages  of  between 
10 per cent and 50 per cent of GDP are common, and, in 
the case of Grenada, where damages occurred totalling  
200 per cent of GDP from Hurricane Ivan alone. Even 
as  we  speak,  this  week  Grenada  was  plagued  with 
unseasonably  high  rains  that  have  caused  numerous 
landslides.  The  value  of  the  damage  is  yet  to  be 
determined. Like our neighbours Saint Lucia and Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines in 2013, we are forced to 
dedicate  already  scarce  financial  resources  to  repair 
and mitigate this.
There is a link between these events and the high 
indebtedness of small Caribbean islands. To paraphrase 
the  World  Bank’s  country  assistance  strategy  for  the 
Eastern Caribbean, the years when fiscal policy failed 
to  explain  increases  in  debt-to-GDP  ratios  were  the 
same  years  when  natural  disasters  occurred.  Given 
these risks, island States need concessionary financing. 
This is critical to ensuring growth, jobs and economic 
development. For small island developing States (SIDS), 
a  robust  economy,  combined  with  risk-management 
policies  and  instruments,  is  the  best  combination  for 
resilience.
When  our  current  Administration  was  elected 
16  months  ago,  the  indebtedness  of  our  country  was 
unsustainable. But the Grenadian people came together 
under  the  leadership  of  Prime  Minister  Mitchell. 
Unions,  churches,  non-governmental  organizations, 
political  parties  and  businesses  all  rallied  to  form  a 
social compact to put Grenada on a firm fiscal footing. 
We tightened our belts and asked the Grenadian people 
to  contribute  more  as  we  undertook  our  home-grown 
fiscal  reform.  The  indebtedness  of  the  SIDS  must 
be  counted  among  the  many  challenges  of  our  time. 
The  annual  cry  of  the  small  island  States  to  make 
concessionary  funding  available  is  the  early-warning 
system  for  the  international  community.  Let  us  settle 
the  least  developed  countries  graduation  issue  in 
favour  of  the  SIDS,  rather  than  use  it  as  a  parallel 
climate-negotiation tool against the SIDS.
One  country  that  is  singled  out  for  its  stellar 
management  of  disasters  is  Cuba.  We  all  have  much 
to learn from Cuba on areas as diverse as disaster risk 
management  and  public-health  management.  Cuba 
sends  its  engineers,  teachers  and  doctors  around  the 
world to improve the lives of others. Is it not time to fully 
recognize the contributions of Cuba to the international 
community — and if not now, then when? Is it not time 
to end the Cold War attitudes to Cuba — and if not now, 
then  when?  Is  it  not  time  to  end  the  embargo  against 
Cuba — and if not now, then when?
The  explosion  of  violence  that  we  see  in  today’s 
trouble  spots  is  driven  by  the  flawed  principle  of 
disrespect  for  international  law  and  the  territorial 
integrity of Member States. There comes a time when 
old  enemies  must  turn  swords  into  ploughshares  and 
look to a future with dignity and with hope.
Just as climate change is the challenge of our time, 
it can also be said that climate change is possibly one 
of  the  greatest  opportunities  for  wealth  creation  and 
shared prosperity that this generation has seen. Today, 
the  renewable  energy  market  is  estimated  to  be  in 
the  order  of  $16  trillion,  including  $12  billion  in  the 
Caribbean alone. In 2012, there were some 6 million jobs 
in  renewable  energy  and  the  International  Renewable 
Energy  Agency  (IRENA)  expects  17  million  jobs 
by  2030.  Today,  pension  funds  with  collective  assets 
exceeding  $12  trillion  are  focusing  on  climate  risk, 
renewable energy and energy efficiency.
Island  States  like  Grenada  are  seized  not  only  of 
climate challenge, but also with climate solutions. For 
us,  a  robust  economy,  combined  with  sound  disaster 
risk-management policies and instruments, is the most 
sustainable  form  of  adaptation  to  climate  change. 
But  in  Grenada,  we  cannot  educate  our  people  if  our 
schoolchildren  have  no  access  to  electricity.  Due 
to  the  high  import  costs  of  fossil  fuels,  electricity  in 
Grenada costs four to five times higher than it does in 
26/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
developed countries. But countries with low electricity 
prices  have  to  subsidize  renewables;  not  so  in  the 
islands. Islands like Grenada come to the climate table, 
not  like  hapless  victims  cap-in-hand,  but  offering  the 
international community 100 per cent renewables that 
can be introduced with zero subsidies.
If we are to limit global carbon dioxide concentrations 
to  450  parts  per  million,  then,  according  to  the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change’s  fifth 
assessment  report,  our  electricity  sector  needs  a  total 
transformation. While island States are the least of the 
emitters,  they  are  the  most  cost-effective  places  for 
renewables. I congratulate the Small Island Developing 
States  Sustainable  Energy  Initiative  (SIDS  DOCK), 
IRENA and Sustainable Energy For All for acting on 
this.
Grenada  is  working  to  transform  its  electricity 
sector.  Solving  the  energy  challenge  for  islands  like 
Grenada  will  remove  a  drag  on  our  economies  and 
better position us to withstand environmental shocks. 
This is adaptation with prospects for jobs, growth and 
shared  prosperity  for  all.  I  am  delighted  to  announce 
that, in addition to working with Germany, the World 
Bank,  SIDS  DOCK  and  IRENA,  Grenada  has  signed 
a  groundbreaking  memorandum  of  understanding 
with the United States to assist us in transforming our 
energy mix, as we announced in Samoa. We have also 
signed  an  memorandum  of  understanding  with  New 
Zealand  to  help  us  better  understand  our  geothermal 
resources. Grenada will serve as the pilot country for 
the regional energy initiative of the United States and 
will  work  with  New  Zealand  on  geothermal  energy. 
We  welcome  others  to  join  this  partnership  and  this 
unfolding success story that is Green Grenada.
As  we  have  said  before,  we  wish  to  recommend 
the 
the  following  actions.  Let  us  operationalize 
Green  Climate  Fund  with  a  window  for  islands. 
Let  us  implement  100  per  cent  renewable  energy  in 
island  States.  Let  us  put  a  price  on  carbon  and  stop 
subsidizing  fossil  fuels.  Let  us  decarbonize  food 
security.  Agriculture,  forestry  and  other  land  use 
contribute 25 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. Let 
us  have  greater  support  for  climate-smart  agriculture 
that can deliver a triple win of increasing productivity 
and  incomes,  increasing  resilience  to  climate  change, 
and reducing or removing carbon emissions. Grenada 
is  pleased  to  be  working  with  the  Government  of  the 
Netherlands  on  a  climate-smart  agricultural  alliance 
and on Global Blue Growth and Food Security Initiative.
Blue  growth  is  vital  for  the  economies  of  island 
States  around  the  world,  and  our  tri-island  State 
of  Grenada,  Carriacou  and  Petite  Martinique  sees 
itself  as  an  Ocean  State,  given  that  our  exclusive 
economic zone in the sea is over 70 times larger than 
our  land  mass.  Our  tri-island  State  is  pleased  to  host 
the  secretariat  of  the  Caribbean  Challenge  Initiative 
(CCI),  which  is  supported  by  Germany  and  others. 
The  CCI  promotes  an  enhanced  marine  environment, 
and Grenada is committed to conserving its near-shore 
marine environment. Through reports like the Sunken 
Billions, the World Bank and the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  have  shown  that  conservation  efforts 
are  critical  to  ensuring  maximum  economic  yield  in 
fisheries.
In the past 30 years, we have lost 30 per cent of our 
corals and mangroves. This is why Grenada welcomes 
efforts such as the Global Blue Growth Initiative and 
the  Global  Partnership  for  Oceans,  and  the  efforts  of 
The  Economist  and  United  States  Secretary  of  State 
John Kerry to bring renewed attention to the oceans. We 
look forward to welcoming our partners to Grenada in 
January 2015 for the launch of the Global Blue Growth 
and Food Security initiatives.
In  closing,  Grenada  acknowledges  the  successes 
of  the  2014  Third  International  Conference  on  Small 
Island Development States, held in Samoa, and, building 
on  the  momentum  of  Samoa,  we  look  forward  to  the 
successful  conclusion  to  the  sustainable  development 
goals  process  leading  into  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Paris 
next year.
As we move forward, let us remember that a number 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  have  not  been 
achieved. We have a duty, therefore, to re-examine our 
approach to peace, security and shared prosperity. We 
need collective action on a global consensus. We need 
to act now before it is too late. We must shed the old 
ways  and  adopt  twenty-first-century  approaches  for 
this  millennium  generation  if  we  are  to  bequeath  to 
them  and  future  generations  the  bounty  we  inherited 
and the bounty that they deserve.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade, Consumer Affairs 
and Information Technology of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines.
14-55187
27/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
We  gather  this  week  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
peace, justice and development. Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines  proudly  recognizes  Mr.  John  Ashe,  son 
of  our  Caribbean  soil  and  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-eighth  session,  and  commends 
him  for  his  invaluable  contribution  in  advancing  the 
international agenda during his superlative tenure. We 
joyously  welcome  the  current  President  as  our  new 
standard-bearer.  As  part  of  the  African  diaspora,  we 
celebrate with the continent of Africa in claiming him 
as one of our own, and in investing the same faith and 
confidence in him in this role as do the people of his 
native Uganda.
Fifteen  years  into  the  twenty-first  century,  the 
challenges  of  our  times  have  caused  some  nations 
to  question  the  value  or  role  of  sovereignty  in  an 
increasingly  borderless  world.  Globalization  and 
modernity  have  unleashed  a  number  of  forces  that 
operate  independently  of  national  Governments  or 
borders.  They  include  the  ills  of  climate  change; 
communicable  diseases  such  as  Ebola;  and  economic 
contagion that spreads like wildfire as external shocks 
that pose serious developmental and existential threats 
beyond  the  scope  of  individual  States  to  address. 
Groups have emerged — from terrorists to drug cartels 
to  certain  rapacious  multinationals  —  that  span  the 
globe and exploit systemic weaknesses to further their 
own nefarious self-interest.
The pressures of keeping pace in an interconnected 
world have prompted suggestions that we can no longer 
rely on a traditional rulebook that does not specifically 
contemplate our modern challenges. Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines  emphatically  rejects  this  suggestion. 
The rulebook that governs our international cooperation 
is the Charter of the United Nations, and its principal 
golden rule is that of respect for the sovereign equality 
of all States.
To  be  sure,  certain  administrative  aspects  of  our 
rulebook — for example, the composition and working 
methods  of  our  fossilized  and  increasingly  irrelevant 
Security  Council  —  are  clearly  long  overdue  for 
meaningful reform. However, the principles that inform 
our Charter and undergird the Assembly are timeless. 
Any attempt to deviate from the Charter in word, deed 
or spirit would constitute an assault on sovereignty, a 
departure  from  diplomacy,  and  the  improvisation  of 
international law on the fly.
The  loss  of  sovereignty  has  never  benefited  the 
weak  or  powerless.  The  erosion  of  sovereignty  has 
never restrained the interests of the powerful. The list 
of nations whose sovereignty has been violated in the 
interest  of  great  Power  convenience  grows  inexorably 
longer, while the tally of those whose populations are 
demonstrably  better  off  for  such  violations  remains 
tragically  short.  Accordingly,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines  rejects  the  choice  between  modern 
interconnectivity  and  traditional  sovereignty  as  false 
and  intended  to  accelerate  a  global  slide  into  lawless 
unilateralism.
As upholders of and adherents to international law, 
we  continue  to  struggle  in  search  of  common  themes 
to  help  us  understand  which  coup  d’état  is  legal  and 
which  is  not;  which  foreign  intervention  is  just  and 
which  is  criminal;  which  particular  sovereignty  or 
territorial  integrity  is  worth  fighting  for,  and  which 
should  be  conveniently  disregarded  and  swept  under 
the  rug  of  endless,  impotent  debate;  which  national 
border  constitutes  a  barrier,  and  which  represents  an 
invitation;  which  World  Trade  Organization  decision 
will  be  enforced  to  the  detriment  of  the  weak,  and 
which,  as  in  the  case  of  our  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) neighbour Antigua and Barbuda, will be 
ignored  by  the  guilty  but  powerful  party.  As  a  small, 
open, vulnerable State, we cannot accept the suggestion 
that  our  existence  rests  on  the  whim,  generosity  or 
benign  neglect  of  powerful  States.  International  law 
and  sovereign  equality  are  the  bulwarks  against  the 
type  of  naked  aggression  and  unilateralism  that  have 
too often led our nations to the precipice of war.
The  cancer  of  terrorism  continues  to  spread.  The 
world  has  witnessed  the  celebration  of  savagery  and 
the  multiplication  of  misery  by  those  who  sow  death 
and hatred in the name of religion. Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines,  like  every  other  civilized  nation, 
is  outraged  at  the  global  rise  of  militant  groups  that 
commit  unspeakable  acts  of  mass  violence  in  their 
quest to enforce a brutal and indefensible social order.
However, the fact that terrorists disregard national 
borders  and  sovereignty  is  no  excuse  for  us  to  do  the 
same.  We  must  not  stoop  to  their  level  by  neglecting 
the  bedrock  principles  of  the  peaceful  coexistence 
of  nations.  Nor  must  we  ever  repeat  the  mistake  of 
believing that terrorism is a force that can be harnessed 
or supported to further some greater political objective. 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  cannot  accept  that 
the  difference  between  noble  rebel  and  evil  terrorist 
28/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
can hinge on something as arbitrary as on which side of 
a border they decide to perform their rapes, beheadings 
and  bombings.  We  unequivocally  support  genuine 
efforts  targeted  at  eliminating  this  scourge,  and  we 
call for global solidarity and international cooperation 
in  this  urgent  cause.  Politics  may  make  for  strange 
bedfellows,  but  in  a  civilized  world,  humanity  must 
always trump ideology in the fight against murderous 
barbarism.
The  political  manipulation  of  the  term  “terrorist” 
threatens  our  shared  resolve  to  eliminate  its  growing 
menace. Nowhere is this manipulation more glaringly 
objectionable than in the false designation by the United 
States  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba  as  a  State  sponsor  of 
terrorism. Cuba has been a victim of State terrorism, a 
condemner of State terrorism and a collaborator in the 
fight against State terrorism. Meanwhile, other actors 
nakedly support and lavishly fund the most despicable 
terrorist  groups,  without  so  much  as  a  hint  of  public 
reproach. It is hard to imagine why the United States, 
a  firm,  honourable  and  unquestioned  global  leader 
in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  and  the  target  of  the 
most  heinous  attacks,  would  want  to  distract  itself, 
or its allies, from the fight at hand by maintaining its 
unfounded characterization of Cuba.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  reiterates  the 
call  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  States  for  an 
immediate  end  to  the  illegal  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  The  external 
projection  of  political  self-interest  is  not  a  sovereign 
exercise, but a retrograde and anachronistic attack on 
the  very  principles  that  undergird  the  Organization. 
The United States is a far greater nation than this petty, 
punitive and illegal embargo suggests. We encourage it 
to demonstrate the courage to cast aside this Cold War 
relic.
We  are  one  month  removed  from  the  disastrous 
consequences  of  yet  another  violent  conflict  between 
combatants  in  Israel  and  the  State  of  Palestine. 
Thousands  are  dead  and 
thousands  more  were 
wounded  —  the  overwhelming  majority  of  whom 
were  Palestinian  civilians.  Whatever  the  motivations 
for  that  particular  conflict,  no  one  can  doubt  that 
the  underlying  problem  remains  unaddressed  and 
unresolved. At its root is the invasion, occupation and 
economic  strangulation  of  Palestine,  and  the  steady, 
illegal erosion of its internationally established borders.
Despite  regrettable  actions  on  both  sides  of  this 
dispute, no amount of political relativism can apportion 
blame  equally  between  occupier  and  occupied.  The 
unquestionable  right  of  Israel  to  exist  in  peace  and 
defend  itself  does  not  and  cannot  give  it  unfettered 
licence to occupy, oppress and suppress the sovereign 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Israel  is  a  powerful, 
accomplished,  democratic  nation  with  powerful 
friends. It diminishes itself and the status of its allies 
by  its  unchallenged  actions  in  Palestine.  Once  again, 
the absence of borders and the disregard of sovereignty 
threaten  to  make  the  concept  of  a  two-State  solution 
nothing  more  than  feel-good  rhetoric  with  limited 
applicability on the ground.
A great Caribbean artist, Peter Tosh, once lamented 
in  song  that  while  “everyone  is  crying  out  for  peace, 
none  are  crying  out  for  justice”.  Peace  cannot  be 
assumed in the absence of war, nor can it be established 
in  the  absence  of  justice.  This  Assembly  owes  the 
people of Palestine its attention and action in the long- 
overdue quest for real peace and statehood.
Climate  change  does  not 
respect  national 
borders  — a fact known all too well in Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines. Despite a tiny carbon footprint and 
minuscule emissions, our country has nonetheless been 
repeatedly  victimized  by  weather  anomalies  partially 
caused  by  the  historical  and  continued  environmental 
abuse  of  major  emitters.  In  the  past  four  years, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  has  experienced 
a  hurricane,  a  drought  and  two  floods.  The  loss  and 
damage  caused  by  each  of  those  events  has  resulted 
in  annual  double-digit  hits  to  our  gross  domestic 
product (GDP). Last December, in a mere three hours 
of  unseasonal  rainfall,  17  per  cent  of  our  GDP  was 
washed  away  in  flash  flooding.  Our  sister  islands  of 
Grenada and Dominica were similarly affected. Lives 
and  livelihoods  were  lost,  homes  and  infrastructure 
were destroyed, and a developmental hole was dug from 
which it will take years to emerge.
Yet, despite the gathering and intensifying global 
threat  of  climate  change,  with  its  real  and  ruinous 
present-day  impacts,  historical  and  major  emitters 
continue  to  act  as  if  the  planet  had  time  on  its  side. 
The  excuses  offered  for  continued  inaction,  whether 
political,  historical,  scientific  or  economic,  grow 
increasingly  indefensible.  The  prospects  of  genuine 
progress  against  climate  change  become  increasingly 
remote with each passing day of diplomatic dithering, 
buck-passing and finger-pointing.
Last  week,  the  Secretary-General  convened  a 
high-level  Climate  Summit  here  at  United  Nations 
14-55187
29/31
A/69/PV.18 
29/09/2014
Headquarters  in  an  admirable  attempt  to  galvanize 
political will for an ambitious and legally binding climate 
treaty by 2015. However, the tangible results were less 
than encouraging. Despite some welcome new pledges, 
the numbers simply do not add up to anything close to 
what is required to cap global warming at 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial  levels.  Furthermore,  the  new  resources 
raised  and  pledged  for  the  financing  of  adaptation  to 
climate  change  were  a  drop  in  the  bucket  —  akin  to 
having a bake sale to settle the national debt.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  fearful  that 
the legally binding agreement, which we are scheduled 
to enact next year, will be insufficiently ambitious to 
solve  our  looming  climate  crisis,  and  that  adaptation 
financing will be woefully short of what is truly required. 
If narrow interests and local electoral cowardice force 
us to retreat behind our national borders and bury our 
heads in the sand, we may squander a decade of effort 
and our only real chance to save the planet on which we 
live. The stakes are that high. We cannot afford to fail.
It  is  appropriate  that  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  preside  over 
the 
International  Decade  of  People  of  African  Descent, 
which runs from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2024. 
The theme  of that  Decade will be “People of  African 
descent:  recognition,  justice  and  development”.  The 
meaningful  and  action-oriented  implementation  of 
this  theme  can  have  far-reaching  positive  effects  on 
the African continent and among its far-flung diaspora 
alike.
launch  of 
the 
One element of recognition, justice and development 
that will be of central importance to Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines  and  the  wider  Caribbean  Community 
is the advancement of our claims for reparatory justice 
from the European colonizing Powers that engaged in 
native  genocide,  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  the 
prolonged system of chattel slavery itself. Over the past 
year, CARICOM Heads of State and Government have 
unanimously  approved  a  series  of  policies,  structures 
and  initiatives  aimed  at  educating  our  populations 
and  engaging  former  slave-holding  and  slave-trading 
nations in a conversation about reparatory justice. The 
level of priority that CARICOM Governments accord to 
the issue of reparatory justice cannot be overstated. At 
the historical root of our region’s many developmental 
impediments  is  an  enduring  legacy  of  slavery,  which 
is the unchanging millstone that we have been forced 
to carry uphill for generations. We seek the support of 
the international community in furthering our just and 
timely cause.
Similarly,  in  a  region  still  grappling  with  the 
aftereffects of systematic discrimination, victimization 
and human rights violations under the cover of unjust 
law,  we  cannot  countenance  the  re-emergence  of 
judicially  sanctioned  bigotry  within  our  Caribbean 
civilization.  The  application  of  the  year-old  decision 
of the Constitutional Court of the Dominican Republic 
continues to retroactively deny thousands of Dominican-
born  citizens  of  their  rights  to  nationality,  identity 
and  equal  protection.  The  unanimous  international 
condemnation of the decision has led to welcome and 
increased  political  interaction  between  Haiti  and  the 
Dominican  Republic  on  a  host  of  bilateral  issues.  We 
hold  out  every  hope  that  those  discussions  between 
neighbours will benefit both countries.
However, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the 
wider  CARICOM  remain  outraged  at  the  core  human 
rights violations that have not been corrected and cannot 
be resolved by bilateral tête-à-tête. We are beyond the 
point  where  continuing  human  rights  violations  can 
be  masked  behind  seemingly  benign  bureaucracy. 
We  call  on  the  international  community  to  assist  our 
brothers in the Dominican Republic in reinstating the 
constitutional  and  human  rights  of  those  Dominicans 
who have been so wrongly stripped of their citizenship 
and dignity.
Last year, from this rostrum, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines called on the United Nations to accept its 
role and offer recompense to the victims of the cholera 
outbreak in Haiti, it having been established that United 
Nations peacekeepers brought the cholera with them to 
Haiti (see A/68/PV.16). A year later, the United Nations 
continues to dodge its moral and ethical responsibility. 
The  legitimacy  of  the  Organization  to  conduct  future 
peacekeeping missions and the legacy of its leadership 
at the highest levels will be irreparably damaged by any 
failure to immediately redress this glaring wrong.
The prestige and legitimacy of the United Nations 
can  be  further  enhanced  through  further  acceptance 
of 
the  reasonable  calls  for  Taiwan’s  meaningful 
participation in the specialized agencies of the United 
Nations.  Taiwan  already  participates  actively  and 
constructively  in  many  critical  international  bodies. 
My  country  and  several  others  in  the  Caribbean  and 
Central America bear testimony to Taiwan’s principled 
conduct  of  its  intergovernmental  relations.  Surely  the 
30/31 
14-55187
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.18
time has now come for this exemplar of the magnificent 
Chinese  civilization  to  be  permitted  to  participate  in 
the work of various agencies of this world body.
implementing  a 
The chosen theme for this general debate — “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”  —  reflects  a  wise  focus  on  a 
central priority and core strength of this institution. The 
exercise and advancement of the right to development is 
an overarching priority for the overwhelming majority 
of the world’s peoples, and it is the absence of sufficient 
developmental progress that is often the root cause of a 
great deal of global violence and unrest.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  must  coalesce 
around  a  series  of  goals  and  targets  that  offer  a 
people-centred  path  of  progress 
for  developing 
countries.  In  elaborating  that  agenda,  and  in  this, 
the  International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States (SIDS), it is critical that the vulnerabilities and 
unique characteristics of SIDS inform that document. 
The  recently  agreed  Small  Island  Developing  States 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (A/CONF.223/3, 
annex),  which  emerged  from 
the  historic  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, must constitute a foundational input in shaping 
the development agenda in areas such as concessional 
financing 
inequality,  poverty 
alleviation, debt relief, disaster-risk reduction, oceans 
management and education.
for  development, 
In  that  regard,  we  consider  it  vital  that  the  post-
2015  goals  and  indicators  focus  equally  on  targets 
within  developing  countries  and  measurable,  timely 
commitments  from  development  partners.  A  major 
shortcoming  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
has  been  the  nebulous  nature  of  the  so-called  global 
partnership  for  development.  Let  us  anchor  our 
shared  future  ambitions  in  concrete,  measurable  and 
predictable action.
Civilized  Governments  and  peoples  must  respect 
borders  and  sovereignty  even  if  some  of  the  forces 
unleashed by globalization and modernity do not. Let 
us build on what is right, good and proper in our new 
interconnected  world  and  cast  away  not  the  rulebook 
but  the  excuses  for  disregarding  its  time-honoured 
rules.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  celebrates  the 
good of a world in which every student of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines can browse the stacks of an American 
library  using  his  or  her  own  Taiwanese  computer 
that  was  assembled  in  China.  It  welcomes  a  business 
environment  where  we  can  rely  on  the  support  of  an 
American non-governmental organization in engaging 
an  Icelandic  company  and  its  Canadian  counterpart 
in  harnessing  our  national  geothermal  resources  and 
propelling us towards 100 per cent renewable energy. We 
celebrate an international solidarity in which brotherly 
nations offer support in our time of need after a natural 
disaster, and engineers and architects convene on our 
shores to help us rebuild. We welcome technology that 
allows  us  the  opportunity  to  communicate,  celebrate 
or commiserate with our migrant diaspora in real time 
and affords them the opportunity to send remittances 
to  their  families  at  home  from  every  corner  of  the 
globe.  We  value  an  international  order  that  allows 
a  tiny  State  to  disagree  respectfully  with  a  large  one 
without  fear  of  unjust  repercussions.  We  revel  in 
regional  integration  arrangements,  like  the  Caribbean 
Community, the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas 
and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States, where sovereignty is respected and often pooled, 
in  furthering  a  cooperative,  people-centred  vision  for 
growth and development.
Those  are  not  dreams  but  modern  realities  in  our 
country today. They demonstrate the paths of peaceful 
coexistence  and  development  that  are  possible  when 
sovereignty  is  enhanced,  not  eroded.  Any  nation  can 
like or dislike another nation, approve or disapprove of 
its  decisions,  admonish  or  praise  its  actions,  befriend 
or avoid its Governments. Those are sovereign rights. 
But every nation is obliged to respect its counterpart’s 
equal and unfettered right to exist, act and determine 
its own political destiny and development path.
The  challenge  of  the  twenty-first  century  is  the 
obsolescence, not of the rulebook, but of the outmoded 
playbook of cynical strategies, tactics and inconsistent 
application of international law by those who see it as 
a tool to further their goals, rather than a restraint on 
hegemonic geopolitical ambition. Sovereignty is not the 
right  to  erect  a  wall  of  repression  or  injustice  around 
national  borders.  Nor  is  it  the  right  to  protect  and 
project national interests to the detriment of another. It 
is neither sword nor shield. It is, instead, a responsibility 
to adhere to an ethic of reciprocity — to do unto other 
nations only what one’s own nation would accept being 
done unto itself.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
14-55187
31/31
