United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
12th plenary meeting
Friday, 26 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Namibia.
the 
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
Republic of Namibia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of the 
Republic of Namibia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Pohamba:  I  am  proud  to  see  you, 
Mr. President, a distinguished son of Africa, presiding 
over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session, 
and I congratulate you warmly on your election. I would 
also like to pay tribute to the President of the Assembly 
at its previous session for his sterling leadership.
This meeting is taking place at a challenging time 
on  the  global  stage.  Several  African  countries  have 
been dealing with an unprecedented outbreak of deadly 
Ebola  disease;  the  200  girls  abducted  in  Nigeria  by 
Boko  Haram  are  yet  to  be  found  or  rescued;  and  the 
indiscriminate bombardment of Gaza ended only a few 
weeks ago. At the same time, terrorist groups continue 
to  disrupt  peace  and  stability  in  various  parts  of  the 
world.
Those  challenges  are  not  insurmountable,  but 
overcoming them requires steadfastness and unity. We 
should therefore resolutely reaffirm our faith and move 
forward, guided by the enduring values and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and all that it stands 
for. Those values should guide our discussions during 
this session, including on our theme “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”. That theme presents an opportunity for us to 
pause and reflect on the successes we have achieved and 
the challenges we have encountered in implementing the 
ambitious targets set by the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). The creation of a better world through 
inclusive  development,  improved  freedom  from  want, 
and  greater  security  and  prosperity,  especially  in 
developing  countries,  are  some  of  the  priorities  we 
agreed on 14 years ago.
In  Namibia,  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs 
has  had  many  positive  results.  We  have  reduced  the 
percentage  of  our  people  living  in  extreme  poverty 
by  more  than  half.  Primary  school  enrolment  has 
reached 100 per cent. Health care is now delivered to 
many  communities  where  once  there  was  none.  The 
rates  of  new  cases  of  HIV  infection  have  stabilized. 
Our  coverage  of  antiretroviral  treatment  has  reached 
85 per cent, while the rate of prevention of mother-to-
child  transmission  now  stands  at  90  per  cent.  We  are 
moving closer to eliminating malaria as a public health 
threat,  and  our  provision  of  clean  drinking  water  and 
sanitation has also expanded.
Notable successes have been achieved at the global 
level, too. The living conditions of millions of people 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54935 (E)
*1454935*
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
have improved, especially in developing countries. We 
therefore have a strong foundation on which to realize the 
sustainable development goals that are part of the post-
2015 development agenda. In that context, urgent action 
should be taken to meet the basic needs of all human 
beings and the protection of the natural environment, 
on  which  we  all  depend  for  our  livelihoods.  I  believe 
no  effort  or  resource  should  be  spared  in  addressing 
holistically the root causes of social strife, poverty and 
political conflict in our societies.
Developing  countries,  particularly  African  and 
island States, continue to bear the brunt of the adverse 
effects  of  climate  change.  Floods,  droughts  and  soil 
erosion  have  become  more  severe,  prolonged  and 
frequent.  Namibia  therefore  calls  for  implementation 
of  the  action  programme  and  the  dynamic  Windhoek 
Declaration adopted in 2013 in Namibia at the eleventh 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification.
We applaud the Secretary-General for hosting the 
Climate  Summit  during  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
the 
negotiations  within  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change towards a meaningful 
and coordinated global agreement in 2015.
Its  outcome  should  complement 
Going  forward,  our  discussions  and  interactions 
should  be  guided  by  the  principles  articulated  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration; 
the  outcome  document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  entitled  “The  future  we  want”;  and  the 
outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and  summits  on  economic,  social  and  environmental 
matters. It is vital to ensure that the concerns articulated 
in  the  African  Common  Position  be  fully  integrated 
into the post-2015 development agenda.
As  we  prepare  for  the  implementation  of  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  we  must  demonstrate 
the  necessary  political  will  and  create  strong  global 
partnerships to realize our shared goals. Furthermore, 
we should join hands to ensure effective mobilization 
and the efficient utilization of public- and private-sector 
resources at both the domestic and international levels.
The ongoing efforts to reform the United Nations 
system,  particularly  the  Security  Council,  must  be 
concluded without further delay in order to reflect the 
contemporary geopolitical realities.
We remain concerned about the political instability 
and  armed  conflicts  in  South  Sudan,  Somalia,  Mali 
and  the  Central  African  Republic.  However,  the 
success achieved by the Government of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the United Nations Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community,  along  with  the  Intervention  Brigade,  in 
neutralizing the negative forces in the eastern part of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo is encouraging. 
In  order  to  further  consolidate  peace,  the  voluntary 
programme  for 
the  disarmament,  demobilization, 
repatriation,  resettlement  and  reintegration  of  the 
negative forces must be implemented fully.
Namibia  supports  the  participation  of  women  in 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations around the 
world. In that context, we call for the full implementation 
of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, 
peace and security. Namibia has currently deployed one 
of the largest female police contingents to the African 
Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur.
Namibia  continues  to  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
economic  embargo  against  Cuba.  The  embargo  is 
contrary to international efforts to reduce poverty and 
achieve  the  MDG  targets  in  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. The listing of Cuba as a State sponsor 
of international terrorism is not justifiable and should 
not be accepted.
We call for the full implementation of all relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions  on  Western  Sahara  and 
Palestine. The international community must fulfil its 
obligations  and  assist  the  people  of  Western  Sahara 
and Palestine to realize their inalienable right to self-
determination.
Namibia  condemns  the  abduction  of  more  than 
200  girls  and  other  innocent  people  by  Boko  Haram 
in  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria.  We  call  for  their 
immediate and unconditional release.
We  support  international  efforts  to  combat  Ebola 
disease in the African countries affected. Towards that 
end,  Namibia  has  contributed  ND$11  million  to  the 
fight against the deadly epidemic.
As  prescribed  by  the  Namibian  Constitution,  I 
have the honour to inform the Assembly that my term 
of  office  as  President  will  come  to  an  end  early  next 
year. Therefore, this is the last time that I will address 
the  General  Assembly  as  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Namibia.  I  would  like  to  thank  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  for  the  excellent  cooperation  that 
they  have  rendered  to  me  and  my  country  during  my 
2/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
tenure of office. I trust that they will extend the same 
cooperation to my successor.
Finally,  let  us  reaffirm  our  collective  political 
commitment  to  accelerating  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs as we move towards the implementation of the 
post-2015 development agenda.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Namibia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Donald Rabindranauth Ramotar, 
President of the Republic of Guyana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guyana,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar, 
President of the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Ramotar:  I  wish  to  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President, on your assumption of the presidency of 
the General Assembly at this year’s session. I wish also 
to commend your predecessor, Ambassador John Ashe 
of Antigua and Barbuda, and his team, for so effectively 
setting the stage for what will now follow under your 
tenure,  as  it  relates  to  the  post-2015  development 
agenda and other critical issues that warrant the focused 
attention of the international community.
This debate in the General Assembly is taking place 
on  the  eve  of  the  target  year  set  by  world  leaders  in 
2000 for achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). It is therefore a timely moment to assess the 
progress  that  has  been  made,  and  also  to  understand 
why we could not achieve all the Goals in full. That is 
essential if we are to move forward with the post-2015 
agenda that we are now about to finalize. I should recall 
that  in  2000,  when  the  eight  Goals  were  announced, 
they  inspired  great  hope  and  enthusiasm  around  the 
world, particularly in developing countries and among 
the poor. It is true that we have made tangible progress 
in  our  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Global  poverty 
has  fallen  and  continues  to  fall;  many  more  children 
are  attending  primary  schools;  health  services  have 
improved  for  many  people,  resulting  in  a  significant 
decline in child mortality; and the spread of HIV/AIDS 
and malaria has been halted and even reversed in some 
regions.
In  Guyana,  despite  the  negative  effects  of  the 
international  financial  situation,  we  have  managed 
to  keep  our  economy  growing  steadily  over  the  past 
eight  years.  In  fact,  we  have  succeeded  not  only  in 
growing  our  economy  but  also  in  ensuring  that  the 
growth has resulted in an improved quality of life for 
our  people.  Indeed,  we  are  one  of  only  17  countries 
in  the  world  recognized  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  for  not  only 
meeting the goal of reducing hunger by half but also of 
improving  their  people’s  nutrition.  We  have  achieved 
universal primary education and are close to achieving 
universality for secondary education, too. We have also 
made  important  strides  in  housing,  health,  water  and 
other  social  facilities.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
express my country’s gratitude to all the development 
partners that have contributed greatly to the gains we 
have  made  in  working  towards  the  MDGs.  Guyana’s 
success in building its health-sector capacity could not 
have  been  possible  without  Cuba’s  assistance,  which 
included  training  hundreds  of  our  doctors,  and  which 
Cuba  has  done  despite  its  own  economic  difficulties. 
We would like to join the vast majority of the countries 
of the world in once more calling for an end to Cuba’s 
economic blockade by the United States.
While we should recognize the gains that have been 
made around the world, I hasten to point out that they 
have not been uniform across countries or regions. In 
some places the progress has been dramatic. Asia, for 
instance, has had remarkable success with many of the 
Goals.  In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  there  has 
also  been  considerable  progress.  There  are,  however, 
some areas that have seen almost no noticeable change 
since  2000.  In  others,  mainly  countries  ravaged  by 
conflicts and wars, laudable gains have been reversed. 
Some Goals have also proven more elusive than others. 
Maternal  mortality  in  particular  requires  additional 
attention. It is clear that the world could have advanced 
much  further  along  the  road  to  achieving  the  MDGs. 
Unfortunately, 
the 
partnership  needed  to  achieve  every  objective  was 
not  strong  enough.  We  should  therefore  examine  the 
reasons for the sub-optimal results.
that  did  not  happen,  because 
14-54935
3/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
It  is  true  that  we  all  have  a  responsibility  for  the 
welfare of the people of the world and the state of our 
planet  in  general.  The  reality,  however,  is  that  some 
countries  have  far  more  resources  than  others,  and 
some  also  use  much  more  of  the  world’s  resources. 
And  while  our  responsibilities  are  shared,  they  must 
necessarily  be  differentiated.  The  gaps  between  the 
top  and  bottom  segments  of  the  world’s  population 
are  widening  greatly.  The  concentration  of  wealth  in 
the hands of a few has reached dangerous proportions. 
Oxfam 
this 
phenomenon,  and  some  figures  are  startling.  Oxfam 
noted that the richest 1 per cent of the population of the 
world owns about 46 per cent of global wealth — some 
$110 trillion — while the bottom 50 per cent owns just 
about $1.7 trillion, or 0.7 per cent of the world’s wealth. 
That amount, $1.7 trillion, is the same as that possessed 
by 85 of the world’s richest people — in other words, 
85 persons have as much wealth as 50 per cent of the 
world’s population. Clearly, such a degree of inequality 
is unsustainable.
International 
recently 
highlighted 
In much the same manner, while we have all agreed 
on  increasing  development  assistance  to  developing 
countries, the reality is that the net transfer of financial 
resources  from  developing  to  developed  countries 
continues unabated, amounting to $200 billion in 2002 
and  increasing  to  $557  billion  in  2010.  That  perverse 
trend  continues  today.  And  this  transfer  of  financial 
resources  is  only  a  part  of  the  picture.  Developing 
countries also suffer a net loss of skills to the developed 
world  through  migration.  That  is  after  the  former 
countries  have  expended  huge  amounts  on  training. 
In  addition,  our  efforts  in  the  health  and  education 
sectors are often frustrated by the high costs of school 
books and essential medicines, owing to the strictures 
of  intellectual  property  rights.  These  imbalances 
are  clearly  unsustainable  and  can  be  addressed  only 
through concerted global action.
While  many  developing  countries  have  shown 
serious  determination  in  working  towards  the  Goals 
by  allocating  more  resources  to  human  development, 
the support offered to them by developed countries, as 
envisaged in MDG 8, has fallen significantly short of 
expectations. It is extremely disappointing, to say the 
least, that in the face of pressing needs, only about half 
a dozen developed countries have kept their pledge to 
reserve 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for 
official development assistance. As we prepare for yet 
another  conference  on  financing  for  development,  in 
Ethiopia next year, I would like to remind the Assembly 
that the commitment of 0.7 per cent was made over four 
decades ago in this very Assembly, and was reiterated 
in  2002  at  the  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for Development in Monterrey.
In  the  light  of  those  failures,  it  is  imperative  that 
the  post-2015  framework  include,  first,  a  time-bound 
commitment 
for  delivering  official  development 
assistance  on  which  commitments  have  already  been 
made;  secondly,  a  global  framework  for  managing 
intellectual property rights that places the development 
imperative  at  its  centre;  thirdly,  a  global  trading 
architecture  that  recognizes  the  asymmetries  in  the 
global state of development and is suitably responsive 
to  them;  fourthly,  a  framework  that  ensures  that 
private-sector 
the 
development  agenda.  The  recommendations  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of 
Experts on Sustainable Development Financing provide 
a good platform on which to build.
is  consistent  with 
investment 
As  we  craft  a  transformative  agenda,  it  will  be 
especially important to ensure that it is flexible enough 
to  address  the  peculiar  needs  of  some  countries.  The 
special circumstances occasioned by the vulnerabilities 
of small island and low-lying coastal developing States 
bear  particular  mention  in  that  regard.  Far  too  often, 
the  progress  made  can  be  speedily  reversed  owing  to 
the impacts of climate change and natural disasters. We 
must  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  that  we  have  a  legally 
binding agreement on this matter in 2015.
Ironically, as we discuss the post-2015 development 
agenda,  many  Caribbean  Community  countries  are 
being  graduated  from  eligibility  for  concessionary 
financing,  since  they  are  classified  as  middle-income 
based on the narrow measure of gross domestic product 
per  capita.  In  addition,  many  of  those  countries  are 
heavily  indebted,  as  they  must  make  unavoidable 
investments in building and rebuilding social, economic 
and  productive 
their 
resilience.  We  call  on  the  international  community 
to  reconsider  that  approach  by  adding  a  vulnerability 
index  to  the  equation.  We  also  call  for  debt  relief,  as 
the debt accumulated by most of those countries makes 
their economies unsustainable.
to  strengthen 
infrastructure 
The  most  important  precondition  for  progress 
is  peace.  Many  conflicts  and  potential  for  conflicts 
continue  unresolved,  while  new  threats  to  global 
security have risen to dangerous levels.
4/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is  the  most 
disturbing.  Still  at  the  heart  of  it  is  the  great  tragedy 
that is the plight of the Palestinian people. Once again, 
we  have  seen  the  bombing  of  an  almost  unarmed 
population in Gaza by one of the world’s most powerful 
military machines, supported and replenished by even 
more powerful military forces. Guyana calls for the end 
of the apartheid-like situation that exists in Palestine, 
where  poverty  and  degradation  are  weapons  used  to 
repress a whole people. The people of Palestine have a 
right to live with dignity in their own country, and the 
United Nations must never compromise on the principle 
of self-determination.
The  continuing  wars  in  Syria  and  Iraq  are  most 
distressing.  They  are  leading  to  more  extremism  and 
a rapid descent into barbarism. That has resulted from 
years  of  financing  and  arming  of  radical  forces  to 
promote political objectives. We condemn the barbaric 
and grotesque killing of journalists, humanitarian aid 
workers and other hostages and the loss of civilian lives 
in those conflict areas by the murderous extremists in 
those countries. Guyana condemns terrorism in all its 
forms and manifestations.
The  situation  in  Ukraine  is  another  cause  for 
concern.  We  must  not  forget  that  the  two  world  wars 
had  their  origins  in  Europe.  That  is  why  we  should 
exert every effort to bring all the partners to the table 
for a peaceful resolution. Attempting to secure military 
advantages 
is  not  only  foolhardy  but  downright 
dangerous. The solution has to be based on justice and 
the aspirations of the peoples in that country.
The  many  unresolved  border  issues  that  exist  in 
our world are always a potential source of conflict and 
are often used to retard the development of countries, 
preventing them from improving the quality of life of 
their  own  peoples  and  from  promoting  the  welfare  of 
the region to which they belong. My own country is not 
unaffected by this. The United Nations must therefore 
redouble  its  efforts  to  assist  in  the  resolution  of  such 
issues.
We currently face a stark reminder of how fragile 
global welfare is in the face of singular threats such as 
the Ebola epidemic. Make no mistake, that is a global 
problem  that  requires  an  immediate  global  response 
many  times  greater  what  is  currently  being  done.  Let 
me  acknowledge  the  prompt  response  and  leadership 
shown  by  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America  in 
rendering assistance to the countries in West Africa.
In our time, we must continue the search for new 
approaches to many of the global problems that confront 
us. In today’s interconnected and interdependent world, 
the  destinies  of  States  and  peoples  are  increasingly 
intertwined.  The  concerted  global  action  that  is 
necessary to address today’s problems can be achieved 
only with strong multilateralism and through relevant, 
responsive and more democratic global institutions.
Critical  issues  include  reforms  to  the  Security 
Council  and  the  international  financial  institutions. 
Concrete  progress  in  Security  Council  reform  is 
imperative in order to assure the continued legitimacy 
and relevance of that important United Nations organ. 
Likewise,  accelerated  reform  of  the  international 
financial institutions is critical if we are to ensure their 
effectiveness  in  protecting  global  financial  stability 
and supporting sustainable development.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  proposal 
that  Guyana  made  through  its  first  democratically 
elected President, Mr. Cheddi Jagan, for a new global 
human  order,  on  which  the  General  Assembly  has 
pronounced itself in several resolutions. That proposal 
seeks  to  balance  the  interests  of  developed  and 
developing  countries.  It  is  a  proposal  whose  time  has 
come,  and  it  should  be  pursued  with  other  initiatives 
to find solutions so that we can realize the dreams of 
generations that came before us for peace, progress and 
prosperity.
Just as the Millennium Development Goals provided 
a new focus and raised hopes in the year 2000, so today 
we  must  rekindle  that  spirit  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
inequality in the post-2015 period.
Let me express our appreciation to the Secretary-
General  and  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations  for  their 
tireless  efforts  in  carrying  out  the  mandate  of  the 
Organization in very challenging times. I assure them 
that  they  have  the  full  support  of  the  people  and  the 
Government of Guyana.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Guyana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of the Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
14-54935
5/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Anastasiades:  I  wish  to  congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  and  I  convey  my 
Government’s  full  support  in  the  exercise  of  your 
high  duties  with  the  shared  goal  of  promoting  United 
Nations principles in a period of great uncertainty and 
instability.
The  General  Assembly  constitutes 
the  only 
international  forum  in  which  all  Heads  of  States  or 
Governments  gather  together  in  order  not  only  to 
brief international public opinion about serious issues 
faced  by  their  countries,  but  to  also  deliberate  on  all 
regional  and  international  challenges  that  are  not 
country-specific  and  that  call  the  international  order 
into question.
We  should  always  bear  in  mind  that  the  United 
Nations  was  created  with  the  aim  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  thus  fostering  the 
effective  protection  of  the  fundamental  freedoms  and 
human  rights  of  all  people,  irrespective  of  gender, 
racial  or  ethnic  origin,  religion  or  belief.  For  those 
principles  at  the  heart  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations to be upheld, we should all realize that in an 
era of globalization, all Members of the Organization 
are  bound  to  be  affected,  one  way  or  another,  by 
events  unfolding  in  any  country  or  region,  although 
in  a  dissimilar  magnitude  and  at  different  times. 
Therefore joint actions are needed, through a common 
understanding  that  despite  our  individual  differences, 
the  path  to  peace,  stability  and  democracy  can  be 
achieved only through the United Nations. Enhancing 
its  role,  adhering  to  the  principles  of  its  Charter  and 
implementing  its  resolutions  are  a  sine  qua  non  for 
effectively tackling both new and long-standing threats.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
The upcoming seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations  will  be  a  significant  milestone  in  United 
Nations history. Cyprus believes that it is now the right 
moment to intensify our efforts and commit ourselves 
to  move  ahead  through  self-assessment  and  an  all-
inclusive debate so as to reach a tangible outcome that 
will  strengthen  the  relevance  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization. In that connection, I would like to recall 
the  2005  World  Summit,  during  which  world  leaders 
agreed to an early reform of the Security Council.
territories  via 
that  undermined 
A year ago, when for the very first time I addressed 
the  Assembly  (see  A/68/PV.12),  I  conveyed  my  deep 
concern  and  indignation  about  acts  that  we  were 
witnessing 
the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  States,  causing  regional  and 
global  insecurity,  such  as  terrorism,  the  annexation 
of 
illegal  use  of  force,  religious 
fundamentalism  and  the  forcible  displacement  of 
millions of peoples. Unfortunately, despite our efforts, 
we have to admit that during the past year we have not 
adequately  risen  to  meet  those  challenges.  It  is  even 
more  worrying  that  their  extent  and  impact  has  been 
intensified  at  the  expense  of  human  lives,  individual 
and  collective  social  and  economic  prosperity  and, 
ultimately,  regional  and 
international  peace  and 
security.
Everything  we  are  witnessing  in  Libya,  Lebanon, 
Syria  and  Iraq,  particularly  following  the  emergence 
of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and the perpetration 
of its untold atrocities, should not leave us indifferent 
or passive. It is our duty towards humankind and our 
shared  values  to  immediately  adopt  a  more  proactive 
involvement,  so  as  to  save  future  generations  from 
the  plague  of  asymmetrical  threats,  terrorism  and 
bald hatred. In that connection, we welcome Security 
Council resolution 2178 (2014), adopted last Wednesday, 
to decisively address the growing threat posed by the 
unprecedented  flow  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters  and 
the  growth  of  facilitation  networks  fuelling  conflicts 
around the world. We expect that those responsible for 
the shocking crimes committed in the past few weeks 
will be held accountable.
At the same time, we should not ignore that deep-
rooted  and  long-standing  conflicts  possess  the  ability 
to instantly ignite regional instability, cause bloodshed 
and  endanger  the  lives  of  thousands  of  innocent 
6/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
civilians, including children. Regrettably, such events 
sow  the  seeds  of  animosity  and  of  further  violence 
that render dialogue and negotiations more difficult to 
conduct and to eventually bring to success.
Cyprus  was  instrumental  in  rescuing  around  350 
Syrian  refugees  from  a  fishing  boat  stranded  in  the 
Mediterranean,  thus  averting  a  great  humanitarian 
catastrophe.
Specifically with regard to the Middle East peace 
process,  the  right  of  the  Israeli  people  to  statehood 
should  not  be  called  into  question,  nor  should  the 
same  right  for  the  people  of  Palestine.  We  commend 
the  very  positive  role  of  the  Egyptian  Government  in 
mediating between the two sides. At the same time, we 
strongly urge all interested stakeholders to discourage 
the activities of terrorist groups that oppose the Middle 
East peace process.
Furthermore,  we  cannot  remain  indifferent  to 
what is taking place in Ukraine and the repercussions 
on  the  relations  between  some  of  the  most  important 
and influential actors in the world arena — the United 
States, the Russian Federation and the European Union. 
We  welcome  the  agreement  reached  in  Minsk  on 
5 September, and we call for it to be honoured and fully 
implemented by all sides.
Of  course,  above  and  beyond  those  regional 
conflicts, we should be vigilant and remind ourselves 
that other conventional and unconventional challenges 
pose  existential  dangers  that  we  have  yet  to  tackle. 
Those  include,  among  others,  human  trafficking,  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  and 
global  poverty,  hunger  and  distress,  which  intensify 
migration  flows  and  create  demographic  changes  and 
the  spread  of  epidemic  such  as  the  recent  example 
of  Ebola.  Moreover,  the  effects  of  climate  change 
could  eventually,  in  the  distant  future,  turn  out  to  be 
irreversible and catastrophic.
Cyprus  lies  at  the  crossroads  of  Europe,  North 
Africa and the Near and Middle East, a volatile region 
in  which  most  conflicts  take  place.  However,  we 
take  pride  on  being  a  member  State  of  the  European 
Union  (EU)  and  in  enjoying  excellent  relations  with 
all our neighbours. Hence, we are considered to be an 
honest  broker  with  no  hidden  agendas.  We  do  realize 
that our geography is our destiny. We have assumed a 
constructive  role  in  upholding  United  Nations  values 
and principles and are contributing to peace efforts in 
our region, always, of course, within our capabilities.
We are at the forefront of efforts to fight terrorism, 
human trafficking and the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction and to provide humanitarian aid and 
facilities  when  deemed  necessary.  Only  yesterday, 
The 
discovery 
in 
of 
hydrocarbons 
our 
neighbourhood has undoubtedly upgraded its strategic 
importance. Energy can serve as a catalyst for broader 
cooperation,  thus  contributing  to  peace  and  stability. 
and  can  be  a  means  to  strengthen  regional  and  EU 
energy security and diversification. That would boost 
the economies of the countries in the area. We are ready 
to contribute toward that cause and even to mediate to 
bring  together  neighbouring  hydrocarbon-producing 
and hydrocarbon-consuming countries.
The year 2014 marks the fortieth anniversary of the 
violent division of my country as a consequence of the 
1974  invasion  and  continuing  occupation  by  Turkey. 
It  is  not  my  intention  to  engage  in  a  blame  game,  as 
a  plethora  of  United  Nations  resolutions  and  Security 
Council decisions not only truly reflect the historic and 
continuing  responsibilities  of  those  who  are  at  fault, 
but also condemn the unacceptable status quo and call 
for the reunification of Cyprus and the withdrawal of 
occupation forces.
What I would like to stress once more is my sincere 
commitment to working vigorously and with resolve to 
reach, through a constructive, in-depth and substantive 
dialogue, a settlement that will reunite Cyprus and its 
people,  restore  the  fundamental  freedoms  and  human 
rights  of  all  its  lawful  citizens,  relieve  the  island  of 
the  presence  of  occupying  troops,  ensure  peaceful 
coexistence  and  socioeconomic  collaboration  among 
all  its  citizens,  and  guarantee  the  effectiveness  and 
efficient functioning of Cyprus as an EU member State.
For me, there is only one plan, and that is to reach 
a  settlement  of  the  Cyprus  problem  on  the  basis  of 
what has been agreed as a compromise: the evolution 
of the Republic of Cyprus into a bicommunal, bizonal 
federation  with  political  equality,  as  set  out  in  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  high-
level  agreements,  with  a  single  sovereignty,  a  single 
international legal personality and a single citizenship.
After  months  of  difficult  negotiations,  a  joint 
declaration was agreed between the two communities 
on  11  February  2014,  setting  out  the  basic  guidelines 
and principles for reaching the framework of the agreed 
solution, as well as the methodology of the negotiating 
process.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  extremely  important 
14-54935
7/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
that  the  joint  declaration  clearly  articulates  that  the 
shared, sole purpose of the negotiating process is to end 
the unacceptable status quo and reach a settlement that 
will  safeguard  and  respect  the  principles  upon  which 
the  European  Union  is  founded.  Following  the  joint 
declaration and intensive negotiations between the two 
sides,  comprehensive  proposals  on  all  chapters  of  the 
Cyprus  problem  have  been  submitted.  We  have  now 
reached the phase of concentrating our efforts to bridge 
the differences so as to pave the way towards a viable, 
lasting solution.
I wish to take this opportunity to warmly welcome 
the Secretary-General’s recent appointment of his new 
Special  Adviser,  Mr.  Espen  Barth  Eide.  We  believe 
that  that  appointment  at  this  critical  juncture  in  the 
negotiation  process  demonstrates  the  United  Nations’ 
determination  to  ensure  that  that  process  moves 
decisively  forward.  However,  it  goes  without  saying 
that what is also needed is a demonstration of a genuine 
will by our compatriots to negotiate in good faith and 
by Turkey to contribute constructively to the efforts to 
reach a settlement, not only in theory and rhetoric, but 
through practical and substantial actions.
A first step towards the long-awaited demonstration 
of  genuine  political  will  would  be  the  adoption  of 
my  package  proposal  for  bold  confidence-building 
measures 
that  would  create  a  win-win  situation 
for  all  parties  concerned,  helping  to  build  mutual 
understanding,  confidence  and  good  will  and  thereby 
serving as a catalyst for the ongoing negotiating process. 
Moreover,  we  expect  Turkey’s  sincere  cooperation  on 
the  humanitarian  issue  of  missing  persons,  including 
through  granting  access  to  all  areas  as  required  and 
providing  the  necessary  information  that  will  help 
shed light on their fate and alleviate the pain of their 
relatives.
Cyprus and its citizens deserve much more than a 
divided country. Forty years is more than enough for all 
of us. It is high time for all those involved to realize that 
the artificial complacency with regard to the status quo 
benefits no one. A solution would benefit all Cypriots, 
Turkey,  our  immediate  region  and  the  international 
community. My ultimate vision is to relieve all Cypriots, 
especially the younger generation — the future of the 
country — of the anachronistic burden of having to live 
in a divided country in which they are forcibly prevented 
from  enjoying  the  freedoms  that  are  the  birthright  of 
every citizen in the world — a burden that they are not 
to  blame  for  and  are  entitled  to  see  redressed.  I  will 
not  deviate  from  pursuing  that  vision,  as  that  is  the 
duty I have undertaken towards all Cypriots. Nor will 
I shy away from the historic responsibility to provide a 
stable, peaceful and prosperous and conciliatory future 
in my country.
It would be a serious omission if, before concluding, 
I  did  not  extend  the  sincere  gratitude  of  my  people 
and my Government to the Secretary-General and the 
Security  Council  for  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus over the past 50 years, 
which  constitutes  a  prime  example  of  the  successful 
role that the United Nations can play in peacekeeping. 
While  we  greatly  value  the  benefits  of  peacekeeping 
and the role played by the United Nations to that end, we 
consider that it is even more important to support and 
empower the Organization to continue its work towards 
peacemaking,  peacebuilding  and  conflict  prevention, 
particularly with regard to new and emerging threats. 
On my country’s behalf, I want to assure the Assembly 
that we will continue to offer any help deemed necessary 
to achieve those noble objectives.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Cyprus for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Dalia 
Grybauskaitė,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Grybauskaitė:  Today, 
numerous 
outbreaks of armed conflict and instability in the world 
make us look back at the main cause and purpose of the 
United Nations — to keep peace throughout the world. 
As  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  all 
8/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
committed  to  that  core  principle.  With  the  danger  of 
terrorism and war spreading throughout the world, now 
is the right time to stop to reconsider our actions and to 
do everything possible to bring an end to fighting, be 
it in our own homelands, neighbouring countries or in 
our regions.
and 
rebellious 
The  nature  of  global  security  has  changed 
dramatically. We are seeing non-State actors, religious 
fundamentalists 
criminal  gangs 
terrorizing  the  globe  and  threatening  the  safety  of 
peaceful people. Sadly, some States are standing behind 
the  terrorists  and  have  become  hubs  and  shelters  for 
growing  violence.  But  nowadays,  the  means  of  terror 
and war go far beyond the traditional concept of a lethal 
fight.  Whatever  the  means  of  terror  used,  its  goal  is 
the same — to frighten people, countries and, in some 
cases, the entire world.
Peaceful  and  sustainable  coexistence  among 
countries  and  within  societies  is  not  a  self-evident 
fact.  It  requires  collective  efforts  and  determination 
and  national  commitment  to  a  sustainable  future  that 
belongs  to  all  of  us.  Our  common  task  as  a  group  of 
nations  is  to  maintain  undivided  security —  we  must 
use all our efforts to stop the Islamic State of Iraq and 
the Levant and Al-Qaida in order to maintain peace and 
security in Middle East, but the same efforts need also 
to be deployed to manage the geopolitical challenges in 
Eastern Europe.
It is our duty to support the peace, sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine.  The  threat  arising  in 
Ukraine must be urgently tackled. The United Nations, 
together  with  NATO,  the  European  Union  and  other 
regional organizations and their member States, should 
fulfil  their  duty  and  do  everything  possible  to  stop 
armed conflicts, prevent the redrawing of the borders 
of sovereign States and stop the creation of one frozen 
conflict after another.
We have to act together as a group of neighbours, 
a  group  of  States  concerned  about  the  future  of  the 
international  community,  the  future  of  the  world  in 
which  we  live.  It  is  very  important  to  stop  a  conflict 
at  its  inception  and  to  suppress  the  breeding  grounds 
of  terrorism,  wherever  they  may  be  found.  But  most 
important,  we  should  never  abandon  the  values  that 
hold us together, namely, respect for human rights and 
the  fundamental  principles  of  State  sovereignty  and, 
naturally, territorial unity.
When 
to 
it  comes 
the  protection  of 
those 
fundamental  common  principles,  the  international 
community should be united and react responsively to 
any breach thereof. The fact that we continue to protect 
core  values  was  well  illustrated  by  the  voting  results 
on resolution 68/262, on the armed conflict in Ukraine. 
One hundred States supported Ukraine and condemned 
the  occupation  of  Crimea  by  the  Russian  Federation. 
An overwhelming majority of the Assembly will never 
recognize such illegal acts of aggression.
If we fail and if violence, aggression and terror win, 
we are at risk of waking up on the threshold of a situation 
where everyone fights everyone else and chaos prevails. 
Everything  we  have  worked  for,  everything  we  have 
created —  the  world  we  live  in —  will  be  destroyed. 
Silent consent to such brutal forms of aggression should 
not be the international community’s answer.
To  avoid  an  even  grimmer  future,  I  invite  the 
Assembly  to  keep  deception,  lies,  manipulation  and 
ignorance  from  entering  our  territories  and  violating 
our values. We have to go back to the core principle of 
the United Nations, that is, to keep peace throughout the 
world. Our undivided attention to maintain undivided 
security should be our main focus.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Lithuania for the statement she has 
just made.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane 
Ouattara,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
14-54935
9/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
President  Ouattara  (spoke  in  French):  Like  the 
other  Heads  of  State  and  Government  who  preceded 
me at this rostrum, I, too, would like, on behalf of the 
delegation of Côte d’Ivoire and on my own behalf, to 
extend  to  you,  Sir,  our  warmest  congratulations  on 
your well-deserved election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session and to assure you of 
our full support throughout your mandate. Your election 
to this post does honour to your country, Uganda, and, 
beyond its borders, to the entire African continent.
My congratulations also go to His Excellency John 
Ashe,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth session, for his outstanding guidance of the work 
of  the  Assembly  throughout  the  past  year.  I  should 
like  in  particular  to  commend  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his dedication to the objectives 
and ideals of the Charter of our Organization.
Now  that  the  stage  has  been  set  and  the  ground 
prepared,  as  we  were  urged  to  do  at  the  sixty-eighth 
session, the time is now ripe to translate into reality our 
commitment  and  our  vision  of  a  world  free  from  the 
ravages of the poverty and vulnerability that still affect 
millions of individuals.
I welcome, therefore, the relevance and the scope 
of  the  theme  of  this  session,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”,  which  is  taking  place  in  the  framework  of 
the  continuation  of  the  previous  session  and  reflects 
our  commitment  to  meet  together  the  challenge  of 
development.
Since the adoption of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), in September 2000, and one year before 
the  deadline  for  their  implementation,  it  should  be 
noted, as rightly stressed by the Secretary-General in 
his recent report, that the main objectives have been, or 
are in the process of being, achieved on a global scale 
and  that  considerable  efforts  will  be  needed  in  order 
for regions such as sub-Saharan Africa to in their turn 
succeed in doing so.
At  the  national  level,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  my 
Government,  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals is tirelessly being pursued within 
the  framework  of  the  implementation  of  the  national 
development  programme  and  the  strengthening  of 
cooperation  with  our  partners.  We  will  use  the  time 
between  now  and  the  deadline  of  the  end  of  2015  to 
accelerate efforts to reduce poverty, improve maternal 
and  child  health,  consolidate  the  remarkable  progress 
made  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and  concerning 
access to primary education, and, finally, ensure access 
to clean drinking water for all of our compatriots.
In 
the  past 
three  years,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has 
made  a  significant  qualitative  leap  forward  in  the 
implementation of the MDGs and intends to continue 
with  that  same  dynamic  process.  We  entered  the 
twenty-first  century  determined  to  conquer  poverty 
and inequality, and to build a world of opportunity. The 
MDGs have been the vehicle for this great ambition and 
the impetus for a solidarity of the kind rarely expressed 
in this forum. At a time when the world that we wish to 
see post-2015 is taking shape, the MDGs are becoming 
clearer.  We  must  finally  give  the  most  vulnerable 
peoples  a  decent  life;  we  must  also  give  our  planet  a 
reprieve  and  the  opportunity  to  exist  for  centuries  to 
come.
The  adoption  of 
The  post-2015  agenda  should  pay  particular 
attention to the priorities of the developing countries, 
particularly those of African countries, as set out in the 
African Common Position, which my country supports. 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda should therefore be inclusive and 
balanced  and  achieve  specific,  measurable  objectives 
so as to facilitate their ownership by States and regions.
the  post-2015  development 
programme  next  year  will  take  place  in  a  favourable 
economic context for Africa. Indeed, Africa has become 
one  of  the  most  attractive  regions  for  international 
investors  and  one  of  the  most  dynamic  in  the  world, 
with the annual growth rate of its gross national product 
at  4.5  per  cent  on  average  over  the  past  15  years. 
Africa  offers  unique  opportunities  in  the  areas  of 
infrastructure, energy, agriculture, employment and the 
capability of ensuring food security for the continent. 
The health sector and that of combating climate change 
are also active.
Africa is entering an era of progress and development 
that  will  depend  on  its  security  environment.  Indeed, 
the  unprecedented  spread  of  terrorism  from  the  Horn 
of Africa to the Sahelo-Saharan area, the explosion of 
maritime piracy, various types of criminal trafficking, 
and, more recently, the resurgence of pandemics such 
as Ebola haemorrhagic fever, which has been ravaging 
certain  countries  in  West  Africa,  are  threatening  the 
African continent and risk making it lose a decade of 
human progress and economic growth. Unlike the wars 
of yesteryear, these trans-border threats will in the long 
10/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
term spare no State and no region. That is why we must 
face them collectively.
The  current  international  mobilization  against 
terrorism and extremism is very positive. However, it 
would benefit from being extended to Africa in order 
to sustainably destroy the terrorist movements that are 
now active at the doors of Europe. Africa must not be 
the forgotten continent in the fight against terrorism.
I  know  that  Africa  is  not  alone  in  facing  these 
threats.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  here  my  sincere 
gratitude  to  our  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners, 
including  France,  the  United  States  of  America,  the 
United  Nations,  the  European  Union  and  the  African 
Union,  which  all  are  by  our  side.  I  should  like  in 
particular to thank President François Hollande for the 
decisive role played by France in the resolution of the 
crises in Mali, Guinea-Bissau and the Central African 
Republic,  as  well  as  for  the  convening  of  the  Elysée 
Summit for Peace and Security in Africa and the recent 
conference  of  heads  of  State  on  the  question  of  Boko 
Haram in Nigeria.
I  wish  to  thank  President  Barack  Obama  for  the 
important  measures  he  announced  in  August  at  the 
United  States-Africa  Summit,  which  will  help  to 
strengthen  African  capacities  to  combat  terrorism.  I 
also wish to thank him, and, through him, the American 
people for the bold, outstanding measures taken by the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  help 
West  Africa  to  overcome  the  Ebola  epidemic.  Those 
measures,  in  addition  to  those  taken  by  the  World 
Health Organization, non-governmental organizations, 
France,  the  United  Kingdom,  the  World  Bank,  Japan, 
the European Union and other countries, must serve as 
an impetus for an international mobilization.
In  the  same  spirit,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge 
the  support  provided  by  the  international  community 
to the brotherly country of Nigeria in its fight against 
the  terrorist  group  Boko  Haram,  and  commend  the 
African Union for its decisive involvement in Somalia. 
The fact remains that, with respect to the Sahel and the 
fight  against  Boko  Haram,  the  major  Powers  and  the 
United Nations need to go further in their support for 
the continent and show the same determination as that 
has been demonstrated by France against the terrorists 
in northern Mali.
For  Africa,  security  is  the  primary  sustainable 
development  goal  that  must  be  achieved.  In  the  quest 
for  stability  and  security,  the  consolidation  of  the 
continent’s  various  partnerships  is  a  true  lifeline  to 
the future. Those partnerships also provide solidarity, 
openness and development. They must ultimately enable 
us  to  pursue  together  the  fight  for  the  eradication  of 
poverty, while taking into account the three dimensions 
of  sustainable  development:  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental dimensions.
Sustainable  development  is  inclusive,  and  that  is 
what  we  want  for  our  people.  In  that  respect,  I  recall 
the  need  to  focus  on  developing  methods  for  cleaner 
production and for reversing the current trend of global 
warming. In the light of the pronouncements we made 
at the Climate Summit, held on 23 September here in 
New  York,  a  final  effort  will  certainly  be  needed  to 
reach  an  ambitious  climate  agreement  in  2015  at  the 
Paris summit.
I  would  like  now  to  turn  to  the  situation  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  My  country  is  at  peace  and  at  work.  It  has 
regained its partners’ trust, as shown in particular by 
the definitive return of the African Development Bank 
to Abidjan. Thanks to the unity of Ivorians, the strength 
of our national institutions and the reforms undertaken 
by the Government, economic growth continues to be 
strong and is close to reaching double digits.
At  this  stage  in  my  country’s  path  towards 
economic  transformation  and  inclusive  development, 
the  major  work  that  remains  is  that  of  strengthening 
national reconciliation and caring for and protecting the 
most vulnerable of my countrymen. That will involve, 
fundamentally,  restoring  meaning  to  the  concept  of 
solidarity and the national pact underpinning the Ivorian 
nation. Today, Côte d’Ivoire is an ambitious nation that 
has  set  a  course  towards  democratic  institutions  and 
exemplary governance.
Let me conclude by highlighting that a better world 
for  all  is  possible.  We  all  need  to  believe  in  it  and 
work with determination to achieve it. The sustainable 
development goals will be achieved if national efforts are 
supported by the expected level of official development 
assistance, the level to which the developed countries 
have  committed.  The  post-2015  development  agenda 
will be an asset that will enable our countries to meet 
the challenges our people and especially our youth will 
face in a changing world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire for the statement he has 
just made.
14-54935
11/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Borut Pahor, 
President of the Republic of Slovenia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Pahor:  Slovenia  is  among  the  vast 
majority in the international community that desire and 
strive  for  a  lasting  peace.  However,  the  precondition 
for that is the peaceful resolution of all disputes. The 
United Nations was founded mainly to serve precisely 
that  purpose,  and  that  goal  has  often  been  achieved. 
Within  the  contemporary  international  community, 
the  United  Nations  remains  a  very  important  tool  for 
maintaining and strengthening world peace.
However,  contrary  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  force  is  still  being  used  in  today’s  world. 
There  is  even  a  strong  feeling  that,  owing  to  new 
circumstances, the existing architecture of the United 
Nations  —  and  above  all  the  Security  Council  —  is 
failing  in  that  fundamental  role.  Long  ago,  a  debate 
began on the reforms that were needed, but thus far, it 
seems to have resulted in no decisive changes.
Hence,  a  sense  of  uncertainty  about  future 
stability  and  peace  is  gaining  ground  among  the 
peace-oriented  States  of  international  community. 
If  the  United  Nations  is  not  reformed  so  that  it  can 
successfully cope with international conflicts, it risks 
being sidelined. Increasingly, deadlocks in the Security 
Council — which have sometimes come about for good 
reasons, but sometimes not — are taken as an excuse 
for  resolving  conflicts  by  force  and  without  a  United 
Nations  mandate.  If  that  trend  continues,  it  may  lead 
to  the  breakdown  in  the  contemporary  political  and 
security architecture. It is our common task to remedy 
such  problems  rapidly,  thoroughly  and  by  consensus, 
especially with regard to the functioning of the United 
Nations and the Security Council; otherwise, it may be 
too late.
is  needed,  with 
I suppose we all agree that a reformed and effective 
Security  Council 
its  permanent 
members  exercising  their  powers  responsibly  and  in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  have  to  use  this  opportunity 
to  rethink  the  international  security  architecture, 
improve our capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts 
and  reclaim  our  shared  values  and  principles,  which 
are enshrined in the Charter. With numerous ongoing 
conflicts around the world, we will have to do so before 
international peace is undermined.
I  cannot  deny  that,  at  times,  in  the  absence  of 
other  means,  specific  circumstances  may  compel  the 
international community to maintain peace by the use 
of  force.  Sometimes  it  is  so.  Nevertheless,  a  United 
Nations  mandate  is  essential  to  ensure  credibility, 
at  least  in  principle.  If,  however,  intervening  without 
a  United  Nations  mandate  becomes  the  principle,  the 
world will certainly arrive at a point where an arbitrary 
action  may  trigger  a  conflict  of  broad  dimensions. 
I  think  there  are  no  moral  grounds  for  such  risky 
behaviour.
A  comprehensive  United  Nations  approach  is 
also  needed  to  address  the  global  threat  emerging  in 
the  broader  Middle  East  and  North  Africa:  the  threat 
of terrorism, extremism and a militant radicalism that 
is  distinctively  different  in  its  strategic  approach  and 
methods  of  operation.  We  all  have  to  condemn  that 
threat  in  the  strongest  terms  and  fight  against  it  in  a 
concerted  manner,  bearing  in  mind  the  framework  of 
the  mandate  given  by  the  Security  Council.  Because 
of  the  importance  I  accord  to  the  Security  Council,  I 
would like to reiterate my support for Security Council 
resolution 2174 (2014) adopted two days ago, which was 
endorsed by more than 100 States.
Although the debate on the reform of the Security 
Council  has  been  going  on  for  decades  now,  it  has 
recently  become  especially  relevant.  My  country, 
Slovenia, is committed to contributing to that debate to 
the greatest extent possible.
Let me finish by saying that, while the vision of a 
world of peace may remain unfulfilled, the ideals that 
led to the establishment of the United Nations almost 
70  years  ago  and  the  need  to  preserve  our  humanity 
remain. Let us pool our resources and ideas. Let us exert 
leadership, make the necessary reforms and recommit 
12/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Let  us  re-establish  dialogue  and  rebuild  the  trust  we 
need so much. That is the only way forward to maintain 
global order on the basis of international law and leave 
a lasting legacy to the people and nations of this world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Slovenia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Alpha Condé, President of the 
Republic of Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Alpha Condé, 
President of the Republic of Guinea, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Condé (spoke in French): Fourteen years 
ago, in this very Hall, the international community, in a 
promising move, pledged to attain a series of common 
goals  by  2015,  essentially,  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
achieve  a  prosperous  and  shared  world  in  a  secure 
environment.  Now,  one  year  before  that  deadline,  we 
must  recognize  that  humankind  has  not  been  able  to 
create all the conditions necessary for the development 
we aspire to. The very foundations of our Organization 
are likely to be shaken if steps are not taken to deal with 
the immense challenges facing us.
Poverty  always  goes  hand  in  hand  with  major 
pandemics,  undermining  any  glimmer  of  hope  for 
the  decent  life  to  which  our  people  are  entitled. 
Humankind’s aggressiveness towards the environment 
pushes  it  out  of  the  balance  that  is  essential  for  its 
growth and for sustainable development. Fundamental 
rights are still being trampled on, opening the door to 
intolerance,  frustrations  and  social  crises.  Peace  and 
security  are  faltering  in  many  countries,  threatening 
more than ever the stability of our planet. It is clear that 
only  a  comprehensive  and  cooperative  approach  will 
lead us to a society free of the defects that prevent true 
progress.
In congratulating the President of the Assembly on 
his election, we would like to state that he is without 
a  doubt  contributing  to  the  momentum  for  a  new 
global  partnership,  which  we  have  all  been  hoping 
for and which is so crucial. Today, we wish to assure 
him  that  we  will  provide  him  with  the  same  kind  of 
unfailing support that we provided to his predecessor, 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  to  whom  we  pay  tribute  for 
his  leadership  in  seeking  solutions  to  our  issues  of 
concern. I must address the issue of the serious health 
and humanitarian crisis that Sierra Leone, Liberia and 
Guinea  are  currently  facing.  As  members  know,  the 
Ebola virus, a disease characterized by haemorrhagic 
fever,  continues  to  threaten  international  security. 
Since  its  most  recent  appearance  in  March  2014,  it 
has  caused  over  2,500  deaths  and  continues  to  cause 
victims. Health-care workers have not been spared.
Faced  with 
the  spread  of 
the  epidemic,  an 
extraordinary summit of heads of State and Government 
of  the  Mano  River  Union  was  held  in  Conakry  on 
1  August.  The  summit  adopted  a  common  strategy 
for fighting the disease and made   an urgent appeal to 
the  international  community  for  a  coordinated  global 
response. At the national level, my Government declared 
a health emergency on 13 August. The quarantine line 
was  reinforced  by  the  establishment  of  compulsory 
medical  checks  at  all  border  crossings  and  crossing 
places in the country, in particular airports and ports.
The  negative  impact  of  the  Ebola  virus  on  the 
country’s economy can be seen in the decrease in trade, 
productivity  and  activity  in  the  transport,  investment 
and tourism sectors. To date, Guinea has suffered a loss 
of nearly 2.5 per cent in the growth forecast for gross 
domestic product. That loss could increase if adequate 
measures  are  not  taken  in  time  to  stem  the  epidemic. 
There  have  been  other  adverse  consequences  for  the 
affected  countries,  in  particular  in  terms  of  borders 
being closed, the free movement of persons hindered, 
flights cancelled and nationals of the States affected by 
the disease stigmatized.
The Ebola epidemic reminds us of the urgent need 
for a comprehensive approach to contain and defeat this 
terrible disease. We must isolate Ebola, not countries. 
We must counter the irrational panic that has gripped 
the world. Ebola is a very serious epidemic, but it is not 
a death sentence. Ebola can be cured.
14-54935
13/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
We therefore welcome the fact that several African 
Heads of State have joined President Ibrahim Boubacar 
Keita of Mali and the King of Morocco, to whom I pay 
tribute, and France and England, as President Alassane 
Ouattara  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  President  Teodoro  Obiang 
Nguema  Mbasogo  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  President 
Denis  Sassou  Nguesso  of  the  Republic  of  Congo  and 
President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon have decided 
to lift the ban on flights and the use of airports. I thank 
them.
In my capacity as Acting Chair of the Mano River 
Union,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  appointment  of 
the  United  Nations  System  Senior  Coordinator  for 
Ebola  Virus  Disease  and  pay  tribute  to  the  work  of 
the  World  Health  Organization,  the  United  States 
Centers  for  Disease  Control  in  Atlanta,  Médecins 
sans  Frontières,  the  International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  and  other  bilateral 
and multilateral partners who are sparing no effort to 
support coordinated action by the affected countries to 
eradicate the Ebola virus.
My Government welcomes with genuine satisfaction 
Security  Council  resolution  2177  (2014),  which  was 
co-sponsored  by  134  Member  States  and  adopted 
unanimously  by  the  members  of  the  Council,  and 
resolution  69/1,  on  the  establishment  of  a  United 
Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response.  I 
welcome  the  spirit  of  solidarity  that  continues  to  be 
shown  to  the  countries  affected  by  the  epidemic  and 
express  our  gratitude  to  all  States  and  organizations 
that  have  assisted  us.  I  thank  in  particular  President 
Obama, President François Hollande and the Secretary-
General for their support and their call to action to all 
the countries of the world.
Our countries have urgent needs that must be met 
to further boost our efforts to fight effectively against 
Ebola. Those needs are in a variety of areas, including 
strengthening  our  infrastructure  and  health  systems 
and increasing the number of health-care workers and 
financial, material and logistical support, as the gaps in 
those areas inhibit our efforts. Promises are nice, but 
there is an urgent need for action on the ground. The 
faster we act, the better chance we have of stopping the 
disease.
Sustainable  development  remains  the  cornerstone 
of  the  harmonious  development  of  humankind.  The 
international  community  has  an  obligation  to  end  the 
poverty that still grips almost 2 billion people, most of 
whom live in Africa. Beyond the economic and social 
concerns, it is a matter of human dignity. It is a matter 
of  justice  and  fairness.  We  therefore  do  not  have  the 
right to back off, much less to give up.
Certainly,  progress  has  been  made,  if  unevenly, 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
Illiteracy  has  been  pushed  back,  although  efforts 
are  still  needed  to  achieve  the  quality  and  equality 
required  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge.  The  essential 
role of women in transforming society has been further 
enhanced. However, family health and access to water, 
basic health care and social protection deserve further 
investment  and  political  commitment.  Worse,  the 
digital divide has been slow to show any improvement, 
for lack of an adequate policy of ownership or transfers 
of science and new technologies. However, encouraging 
results have been achieved in the fight against malaria 
and HIV/AIDS despite the spectre of the disease, which 
still haunts the lives of millions of people who do not 
have access to antiretroviral medicine.
The  many  challenges  facing  our  world  require  an 
urgent,  comprehensive  and  coordinated  response.  In 
the collective quest for well-being, Africa in particular 
has  seen  renewed  growth,  but  it  is  having  difficulty 
in  translating  that  growth  into  a  true  engine  for 
development.  Eradicating  poverty  is  an  uphill  battle. 
The  new  Africa  that  we  aspire  to  should  promote 
structural changes that enable it to acquire robust and 
diversified economies so as to guarantee reinvestment 
in value-added and environmentally friendly industries 
in future.
In  that  context,  the  Climate  Summit  held  on  the 
sidelines of the current session has provided hope that a 
binding agreement will be adopted at the international 
conference to be held in Paris in 2015. It goes without 
saying that those measures will build on the foundation 
of a vibrant private sector that is underpinned by strong 
institutions that guarantee good governance, which is 
itself the crucible of inclusive development.
That  is  why,  despite  the  backdrop  of  a  relentless 
systemic  crisis  and  the  scarcity  of  external  resources 
because of unfulfilled commitments, Africa will be able 
to enter into the international system, gain confidence 
and increase intra-African trade to influence the flow of 
world trade. That is also why our continent will, relying 
primarily on its own strength — and that is extremely 
important  —  be  able  to  become  less  vulnerable  and 
build  resilience  through  coherent  strategies  and  the 
search  for  innovative  financing  to  accelerate  its  full 
potential.
14/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
Recognizing all those challenges, Guinea has made 
a  decisive  commitment  to  promoting  democracy  and 
the rule of law, which are the foundation for sustainable 
development. In doing so, since our assumption of the 
country’s  leadership  in  2010  we  have  taken  measures 
that  affect  all  areas  of  our  national  life.  The  reform 
of  the  defence  and  security  sector  ensures  that  our 
armed  forces  are  at  the  service  of  the  Republic  and 
increases their participation in the development process 
and  in  peacekeeping  in  the  world.  The  independence 
of  the  judiciary  is  now  ensured.  Our  stabilized  and 
competitive  macroeconomic  framework  strengthens 
Guinea’s credibility at the international level.
Guinea  has  been  admitted  to  the  Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative and today has one of 
the most attractive mining codes. Even better, the review 
of all contracts allows us to make the environment safer 
for  investors  and  ensures  a  development  process  that 
benefits Guineans while preserving our ecosystem.
Of  course,  the  development  of  the  mining  sector 
will rely on promoting agriculture to ensure our food 
security  and  to  pass  on  to  future  generations  the 
resources needed to shape to the world they hope for. 
The growth we aspire to will be even more promising 
as  it  creates  decent  jobs  for  our  youth  and  empowers 
women — two sectors of society that constitute the rich 
and inexhaustible source of all progress.
Our unquenchable desire to ensure the well-being of 
our people can be fulfilled only in a stable environment 
that is free from crises and conflicts. Multilateralism, 
which is the only way to realize our goals, is imperative, 
since our States, whether big or small, strong or weak, 
are  determined  to  contribute  to  building  a  more  just 
and equitable global society within a reformed United 
Nations  that  is  responsive  to  the  needs  of  humanity. 
In  that  context,  Africa,  the  continent  that  is  the  most 
affected,  will  shoulder  its  responsibilities  by  pooling 
its  efforts  through  greater  regional  integration,  which 
is an essential element of a global partnership leading 
to a more dynamic and pragmatic peace.
That  is  why  we  must  be  more  involved  in  the 
struggle against terrorism, extremism and intolerance 
and  the  illicit  trafficking  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons, which fuel cross-border crime and maritime 
insecurity  —  the  numerous  scourges  that  hinder 
development. The time has come to be the true builders 
of our destiny. The rule of law, respect for all human 
rights and good governance remain intangible realities 
that  we  must  promote.  Likewise,  the  implementation 
of  the  African  Peace  and  Security  Architecture  and 
the ability of Africa to respond quickly to crises will 
strengthen our credibility with regard to stabilizing the 
continent.
I should like to stress in particular the unacceptable 
suffering that our Palestinian brothers are experiencing. 
Guinea has always clearly and unambiguously expressed 
its  unconditional  solidarity  with  the  just  Palestinian 
cause and firmly condemns the heinous acts committed 
by  Israel  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  is  now  suffering 
under the yoke of a cruel and vile embargo. My country 
remains convinced that any viable and lasting solution 
to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  hinges  on  the 
creation of two States living side by side within secure 
and  internationally  recognized  borders,  based  on  the 
pre-1967 borders.
We will soon have the opportunity to take stock of 
the Millennium Development Goals. On the eve of that 
meeting  and  bearing  in  mind  that  we  decided,  at  our 
sixty-eighth session, to set the stage for the sustainable 
development goals, it is clear that the implementation 
of  those  legitimate  goals  remains  dependent  both  on 
the  appropriate  means  for  its  implementation  and  on 
whether  the  priorities  of  poor  countries,  in  particular 
African countries, are taken into account.
That  is  why  Guinea,  which  has  a  member  on  the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  calls 
for greater attention to be given to the African Common 
Position on the post-2015 development agenda. That is 
all the more relevant since, if Africa does well, the world 
will do better. The new Africa — more ambitious and 
more promising and aware of its human and economic 
potential — is now ready to assume its responsibilities.
I  again  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who has devoted all his actions and energy into forging 
an adequate response on the part of the United Nations 
to all the challenges we face. He deserves our gratitude 
and  respect.  There  is  no  doubt  that  his  efforts  will 
chart  the  course  for  the  indispensable  reform  of  the 
international system, so that the United Nations will be 
true to its original objectives of promoting peace and 
security and respect for human rights and fundamental 
freedoms in a world of democracy, equity and progress 
for all.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the 
Republic of Guinea for the statement he has just made.
14-54935
15/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Salvador Sánchez Cerén, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the 
United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez 
Cerén, President of the Republic of El Salvador, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Sánchez Cerén (spoke in Spanish): I am 
proud to represent a small but great nation, El Salvador, 
before  the  Assembly.  Our  history  has  been  full  of 
painful moments, but also times of hope and courage. 
For  years,  we  struggled  to  achieve  democracy.  We 
marked  a  historic  global  milestone  when  we  became 
the first country in the region to end a painful civil war 
through dialogue and reconciliation in order to begin to 
build a democratic country.
Like most developing countries, we face the familiar 
challenges of reducing poverty and social inequalities 
and  building  the  conditions  needed  for  families  to 
have  healthier  and  safer  lives.  Experience  has  shown 
us that it is only through solidarity, respect, inclusion 
and equity that we can overcome those challenges. In 
recent years, we have made significant strides in human 
development. In rural areas, we have reduced extreme 
poverty to 13.6 per cent; we have allocated 14.8 per cent 
of our gross domestic product to social spending; and 
we have raised primary education coverage to 93.7 per 
cent and reduced illiteracy by a little over 5 percentage 
points.  We  have  achieved  an  important  reduction  in 
maternal  mortality,  and  we  have  improved  sanitation 
services and access to drinking water for the population.
We  have  witnessed  significant  changes,  and  just 
as we did 14 years ago at the Millennium Summit, we 
are  working  on  the  parameters  that  will  lead  us  to  a 
more  just  and  equitable  world.  However,  our  debt  to 
humankind  remains.  We  continue  working  to  create 
factors  that  can  enhance  our  human  development  and 
provide stronger social protection, which will allow us 
to ensure universal access to basic social services on a 
sustainable basis.
We  are  one  year  away  from  the  most  important 
world  summit  in  our  history,  where  we  will  evaluate 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
in 
particular  the  goals  that  have  been  achieved,  and 
where  we  will  define  the  new  post-2015  development 
agenda, based on a new comprehensive, transformative 
and  inclusive  development  paradigm.  We  believe  in 
a  vision  for  development  that  meets  the  needs  of  our 
peoples,  in  which  all  human  beings  have  a  full  and 
dignified  life,  living  in  democracy  and  enjoying  the 
right to sovereignty and determination and the right to 
choose our path towards peace and development. The 
new  agenda  must  integrate  universal  issues,  such  as 
migration,  climate  change,  food  security,  education, 
health, public safety and world peace. We must not keep 
repeating the errors of the past. Based on the experience 
of the MDGs, we must reduce the inequality gaps and 
the structural causes of poverty and exclusion.
The new global agenda requires us to come to an 
agreement  on  how  to  face  the  great  threat  of  climate 
change, which afflicts us with hardships and limits the 
opportunities for families to live with dignity. The next 
few months are key for the establishment of a road map 
to  implement  the  parameters  of  the  new  development 
paradigm. We must work together, using an approach 
based on shared but differentiated responsibilities.
implementation  of  procedures 
It  is  urgent  to  amend  the  existing  financial 
architecture and international cooperation mechanisms 
so  that  they  meet  the  needs  of  our  peoples  with 
effective  institutions  and  transparent  mechanisms. 
We  must  renew  the  terms  under  which  development 
assistance  is  granted,  review  its  amounts  and  ensure 
the 
that  facilitate 
the  principles  of  sustainable  development.  The  new 
development  indicators  should  make  exclusion  and 
inequality visible. To that end, measurements must focus 
on whether needs are met and opportunities provided. 
The  objectives  and  goals  should  address  personal 
fulfilment and our right to the pursuit of happiness as 
much as the economic growth of countries.
I  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  maintain  its 
resources  and  programmes  in  Latin  America,  and 
in  particular  in  Central  America,  regardless  of  the 
macroeconomic  classification  of  our  countries.  To 
reduce 
the  United  Nations  presence  would  only 
exacerbate the serious economic and social inequality 
problems suffered by the region.
16/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
is  vital 
for 
Financing 
for  development 
the 
implementation  of  the  sustainable  development  goals 
and the post-2015 development agenda. I reaffirm the 
resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers of the 
Central  American  Integration  System  (SICA),  which 
stresses that financing for development should be based 
on the priorities of the countries concerned, making use 
of innovative financing mechanisms. We must explore 
new  sources,  such  as  the  resources  found  in  offshore 
areas, a global asset to which only a handful of countries 
now have access. El Salvador expresses its commitment 
to  the  new  global  alliance  for  development,  based  on 
the  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing for Development and the outcome document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 66/288, annex).
Much work still lies ahead. However, countries will 
not  be  able  to  accomplish  that  work  unilaterally,  but 
should rather take action within the framework of the 
United Nations. We must also unite to advance the reform 
process of the United Nations, especially since we need 
a  strengthened  and  renewed  Organization.  We  need  a 
General  Assembly,  the  main  forum  for  global  debate, 
with an agenda focused on the most pressing issues of 
the  international  community,  and  a  Security  Council 
open  to  increased  representation  and  participation 
by  all  Member  States.  We  call  for  the  strong  support 
and political will of all Member States, so that we can 
have an Organization that can provide timely support 
in the face of the new challenges posed by history. In 
the context of those global challenges, our Government 
reaffirms  its  call  for  a  comprehensive  and  inclusive 
development agenda for social peace, capacity-building 
and consensus-building across sectors.
the  fight  against  poverty  and 
In  recent  years,  my  country  has  launched  a 
transformation  process  that  focuses  on  sustainable 
development, 
the 
reduction of inequality, exclusion and social injustice, 
and that promotes an equality agenda with a focus on 
gender and human rights. In our country, the Universal 
Social Protection System Law is an invaluable tool that 
integrates for the first time a network of social policies 
and strategies that provides basic services to people, is 
focused on the most vulnerable population groups and 
is designed to address the main challenges we face.
El Salvador makes every effort to improve the quality 
of life of the population and to build the conditions that 
will help us to strengthen family unity, values and create 
opportunities for new generations and raise awareness 
about the risks of irregular migration, especially to the 
United States. I call upon the international community 
to  support  us  in  overcoming  the  situation  generated 
by  the  increased  flow  of  unaccompanied  migrant 
children  travelling  to  the  United  States.  The  United 
Nations  system,  including  the  General  Assembly, 
must  play  a  greater  role  in  addressing  the  migration 
issue and recognize that human mobility is a relevant 
factor in the Organization’s work and include it in the 
implementation of the post-2015 development agenda.
As we address that phenomenon, which has many 
causes,  we  are  convinced  that  we  must  act  with  a 
comprehensive  approach 
that  provides  protection 
for  the  rights  of  our  children,  ensures  respect  for 
the  due  process  of  law  and  provides  support  for  the 
reunification  of  children  with  their  parents.  We  must 
work  with  the  communities  of  origin  of  the  migrant 
population to create better conditions and increase the 
investment in education, health, safety and jobs — all 
from  a  perspective  of  joint  responsibility  among  the 
countries of origin, transit and destination.
Threats  to  public  safety  represent  another  major 
challenge faced by our country and others in the region 
and  throughout  the  world.  We  will  not  rest  until  we 
ensure the necessary conditions for Salvadorans to live 
safely and in peace. The various sectors of our society 
are responding to the call of our Government, and we 
hope that the international community will strengthen 
its support for the titanic struggle that El Salvador and 
Central America are waging against violence in all its 
different forms.
We  observe  with  concern  the  many  conflicts  and 
threats to international peace and security. We deeply 
regret  the  loss  of  lives,  particularly  of  children,  as 
a  result  of  the  indiscriminate  attacks  in  Gaza.  We 
welcome  the  peace  plan  presented  by  Egypt,  and  we 
urge the parties involved to endeavour to ensure a firm 
and lasting peace that achieves the coexistence of two 
States, Israel and Palestine, within secure borders.
We  are  concerned  about  the  recent  attacks  and 
human  rights  violations  committed  by 
the  self-
proclaimed Islamic State against the defenceless civilian 
population. We call on the international community to 
close ranks in United Nations bodies so as to put an end 
to those brutal acts. Only the coordinated action of our 
multilateral system can achieve the results to which we 
all aspire.
14-54935
17/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
We will always be committed to peace. All citizens 
of  the  world  must  become  peacemakers,  as  Saint 
John  Paul  II  himself  said  during  one  of  his  visits  to 
El  Salvador.  El  Salvador,  as  a  beneficiary  of  United 
Nations  support  during  our  historic  peace  process, 
cannot  fail  to  strengthen  its  commitment  to  support 
peacekeeping  operations  around  the  world.  As  a 
country, we are providing support through our prompt 
contribution  to  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali,  and  we  are 
standing  with  the  Haitian  people  in  their  recovery 
process, as part of a joint effort of the United Nations 
system, which cannot be neglected.
I  wish  to  stress  that  human  rights  is  one  of  the 
priority  working  areas  of  our  foreign  policy.  In  that 
context, El Salvador has presented its candidacy to the 
Human  Rights  Council,  which  will  hold  elections  at 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Our  candidacy 
represents  an  opportunity  for  us  to  continue  to  fulfil 
our international commitments and to demonstrate the 
importance of living under the rule of law in harmony 
with our environment.
In our efforts in pursuit of peace and inclusive and 
equitable development, there is no place for contempt 
for  fundamental  principles  and  freedoms.  I  refer  here 
to the economic, trade and financial blockade against 
the  sister  Republic  of  Cuba,  which,  in  spite  of  that 
unilateral  action  against  its  people,  has  overcome  the 
obstacles and adversity imposed on it with exemplary 
perseverance 
determination.  Consequently, 
El Salvador calls for an end to the blockade. We believe 
that the inclusion of Cuba in the list of States sponsors 
of international terrorism is unfounded. Cuba must be 
removed from that mechanism, whose sole purpose is 
to justify the blockade.
and 
I want to highlight the contribution to multilateralism 
made  by  the  countries  of  Central  and  Latin  America 
and  their  regional  organizations.  Let  me  mention  in 
particular  the  Central  American  Integration  System, 
where  we  have  be  able  to  set  out  a  multidimensional 
regional agenda that guides our regional work through 
five  main  pillars:  economic 
integration,  social 
integration and the fight against poverty, comprehensive 
disaster  management  and  the  adaptation  to  climate 
change,  institutional  strengthening  and  democratic 
security.
The  Central  and  Latin  American  region  needs 
the  Central  American 
international  support 
Security  Strategy,  which  will  allow  our  Governments 
for 
to  complement  national  efforts  and  have  a  greater 
impact on regional security. I reiterate the call for the 
international community to give its full support to the 
Strategy. The activities of regional bodies, such as SICA 
and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States, are fundamental and are aimed at strengthening 
solidarity  and  cooperation  among  all  peoples  of  the 
world.
As 
stated,  we  are  witnessing  an 
unprecedented  process  of  change  in  the  world,  which 
brings with it both opportunities and challenges. If we 
are to succeed, we must unite and integrate our peoples 
and Governments in a global community — committed 
to  the  values  of  democracy,  peace,  equality,  progress 
and  development.  I  conclude  by  stating  that,  within 
our  modest  possibilities,  we  are  ready  to  meet  that 
challenge.
I  have 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of El Salvador for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of 
the Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou 
Nguesso, President of the Republic of the Congo, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sassou  Nguesso  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would like to extend my warmest congratulations to the 
President  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. At the same time, 
I  would  like  to  welcome  the  wise  choice  that  he  has 
made to view his mandate as an extension of the work 
of Ambassador John William Ashe, his predecessor, to 
whom I pay a well-deserved tribute. I also commend the 
President on having chosen a theme for the sixty-ninth 
18/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
session  that  invites  us  to  engage  in  a  comprehensive 
consideration of the post-2015 agenda. I would also like 
to pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and 
reiterate to him the unwavering support of the Republic 
of the Congo for the efforts he expends with devotion 
and selflessness at the head of our Organization.
The  world  is  in  turmoil.  Humankind  lives  in 
fear  of  tensions  and  conflicts,  which  exist  virtually 
everywhere;  of  terrorism,  which  has  become  the 
bogeyman  of  States;  of  old  and  new  epidemics  that 
plague  societies,  especially  the  poorest  among  them; 
of  the  persistent  disparities  among  and  within  States; 
and  of  climate  change,  which  threatens  our  planet. 
Those are the challenges that arouse a feeling of great 
apprehension throughout the world.
In  turn,  they  make  us  put  our  faith  in  the  United 
Nations, the only instrument available to the world in 
its search for solutions to those many problems. In that 
universal  quest,  the  priority  action  of  States  must  be 
directed above all to peace, security and the conservation 
of  nature.  For  the  world  needs  peace  and  security, 
especially wherever senseless conflicts have developed, 
such as in Syria, Ukraine, Iraq and between the Israelis 
and the Palestinians. The world needs peace and security 
in Africa, especially in Libya and throughout the entire 
Sahel-Saharan region, in South Sudan, Central Africa 
and the Great Lakes region. Africa needs the increased 
support of the international community so that Somalia 
can, once and for all, emerge from the abyss and so that 
Mali can recover its integrity and unity. It needs such 
support so that the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
which has now experienced a degree of calm, will not 
again be plunged into the violence that afflicted it for 
so many long years. Finally, it also needs that support 
so  that  the  positive  developments  seen  in  the  Central 
African  Republic  in  recent  weeks  with  the  cessation 
of  hostilities  agreement,  signed  in  Brazzaville  on 
23 July, and the transfer of authority, on 15 September, 
from  the  African-led  International  Support  Mission 
in the Central African Republic to the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the  Central  African  Republic  can  be  strengthened  to 
allow  the  Central  African  people  to  emerge  from  the 
crisis that has lasted too long.
the  ongoing 
support  of 
Africa  needs 
the 
international  community  to  curb  maritime  piracy, 
which  increasingly  threatens  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  and 
to  combat  terrorism,  which  extends  from  the  Sahel 
to the south of the continent, with the involvement of 
many local networks. That also applies to Boko Haram, 
which rages in Nigeria and seeks to spread its activities 
towards Cameroon, and perhaps soon to other countries 
if  nothing  is  done  to  prevent  it.  The  same  goes  for 
the  rebel  movement  known  as  Joseph  Kony’s  Lord’s 
Resistance  Army,  which  is  still  active  in  the  Central 
African  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Uganda.
In  Central  Africa,  as  elsewhere  on  the  continent, 
insecurity is often the result of a number of factors. There 
are not only war and armed violence but also poverty 
and  endemic  diseases,  such  as  malaria,  HIV/AIDS, 
non-communicable  diseases  and  Ebola  haemorrhagic 
fever. We commend the great spirit of solidarity shown 
by the international community in assisting the African 
countries  affected  by  the  Ebola  epidemic  to  eradicate 
that  terrible  scourge.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
establishment of the United Nations Mission for Ebola 
Emergency Response by the Secretary-General.
I would like to briefly address the issue of climate 
change,  which,  as  everyone  knows,  remains  a  major 
threat to our planet. The Republic of the Congo, which 
fully shares the Common African Position, supports the 
conclusions of the Elysée Summit for Peace and Security 
in  Africa  of  6  and  7  December  2013.  The  Climate 
Summit held here in New York on 23 September saw 
the  announcement  of  firm  commitments  with  a  view 
to  the  adoption  of  a  universal,  important  and  binding 
agreement  on  both  mitigation  and  adaptation  at  the 
Paris summit in 2015.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  underscore  the 
importance  for  my  country  and  for  Africa  of  the 
establishment  of  technology  transfer  and  innovative 
financing  mechanisms  and  of  ensuring  the  maximum 
benefit and real implementation of the Green Climate 
Fund,  as  well  as  the  promotion  of  a  substantive 
programme  to  counter  climate  imbalance  so  as  to 
maximize  the  opportunities  provided  by  combating 
climate change.
Illicit  logging  and  the  illegal  trade  in  fauna  and 
flora  are  another  serious  threat  to  the  environment 
and  to  biodiversity.  In  response  to  that  international 
environmental  crime  against  biodiversity,  during  the 
first half of 2015, my country will host in Brazzaville, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  African  Union  and  in 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme, an international conference on the illegal 
14-54935
19/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
exploitation of and the illicit trade in the wild fauna and 
flora of Africa.
The  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  Assembly  of  our 
Organization  takes  place  on  the  eve  of  2015,  the 
deadline  for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The 
review  undertaken  by 
stakeholders  at  all  levels  has  shown  that  we  have  not 
reached those Goals owing to, inter alia, shortcomings 
in  their  initial  preparation  and  drafting.  Africa  is  the 
continent with the largest number of countries that will 
not  have  achieved  some  MDGs  by  the  2015  deadline. 
African  leaders  have  adopted  a  Common  Position  on 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  in  order  to  meet 
those  challenges.  We  call  for  the  joint  commitment 
of  all  members  to  ensure  that  the  Common  African 
Position is placed at the centre of our concerns in the 
negotiations  that  should  lead  to  the  adoption  of  an 
inclusive post-2015 development agenda.
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  solemnly 
reaffirm  my  country’s  commitment  to  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  fundamental  human  rights  and 
freedoms,  the  various  mechanisms  for  the  protection 
of  human  rights  and  the  universal  periodic  review 
process, in which we have actively participated. In that 
spirit, Congo seeks to enrich its legal and institutional 
framework by strengthening its national system for the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  with  the 
full  participation  of  civil  society.  In  that  context,  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo  has  decided  to  present,  in  the 
upcoming November elections to be held in New York, 
its candidature for a second term on the United Nations 
Human Rights Council for the period 2015-2017.
Sports, as a contributor to peace and development, 
unites  peoples.  In  that  spirit,  in  September  2015 
Brazzaville  will  host  the  eleventh  All-African  Games 
on  the  occasion  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  that 
African youth festival.
In conclusion, I reaffirm my country’s commitment 
to the ideals of our universal Organization and reiterate 
our  commitment  to  supporting  the  efforts  of  the 
entire  international  community  for  peace,  security 
and  development,  on  which  depend  the  well-being  of 
humankind and the advent of the better world to which 
we fervently aspire.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of the Congo for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Abbas  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  this  year 
2014,  proclaimed  by  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
International  Year  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, Israel has chosen to make it the year of a new 
war  of  genocide  perpetrated  against  the  Palestinian 
people. It is the year in which the Assembly, on behalf 
of  the  countries  and  peoples  of  the  world,  conveyed 
the world’s yearning and determination to make a just 
peace  that  would  achieve  freedom  and  independence 
for  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  State  of  Palestine 
alongside  Israel.  The  occupying  Power  has  chosen  to 
defy the entire world by launching its war on Gaza, in 
which  its  jets  and  tanks  brutally  destroyed  lives  and 
devastated the homes, schools and dreams of thousands 
of Palestinian children, women and men and, in reality, 
destroying any remaining hopes for peace.
I addressed the Assembly on similar days in 2012 
(see  A/67/PV.12),  when  I  cautioned  that  the  colonial 
occupying Power was preparing a new Nakba against 
the Palestinian people. I appealed to the Assembly then 
to prevent a new Nakba and to support the establishment 
of a free and independent State of Palestine. I returned 
to the Assembly Hall two months later (see A/67/PV.44) 
as Palestine was healing its wounds and its people were 
burying  their  beloved  martyred  children,  women  and 
men after yet another war waged then against the Gaza 
Strip.  On  that  day,  I  stated  that  there  was  certainly 
not  a  single  person  in  the  world  who  needed  the  loss 
of  the  lives  of  thousands  of  Palestinian  children  in 
order to confirm that Israel insisted on occupation. The 
international  community  also  did  not  need  thousands 
20/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
of deadly raids and tons of explosives to remind it that 
there was an occupation that must end and a people who 
must be freed.
Again  today,  we  find  ourselves  full  of  grief  and 
bitterness, raising the same long-standing conclusions 
and questions after a new war, the third in five years, 
waged  by  that  racist  occupying  State  against  Gaza, 
a  small,  densely  populated  and  precious  part  of  our 
country.  The  difference  today  is  that  the  scale  of 
that  genocidal  crime  is  larger.  The  list  of  martyrs, 
especially  children,  has  grown,  as  hs  the  number  of 
the  wounded,  the  disabled  and  the  dozens  of  families 
who  have  been  completely  decimated.  The  difference 
today is that approximately half a million people have 
been  displaced  from  their  homes.  An  unprecedented 
number of homes, schools, hospitals, public buildings, 
residential buildings, mosques, factories and cemeteries 
have  been  destroyed  —  the  Israelis  pursued  their 
vengeance against our young even into the cemeteries. 
The difference today is that the devastation caused by 
that recent aggression is unmatched in modern times, 
as confirmed by a witness, the Commissioner-General 
of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East.
The  latest  war  against  Gaza  constituted  a  series 
of  absolute  war  crimes,  carried  out  before  the  eyes 
and  ears  of  the  entire  world,  moment  by  moment.  It 
is inconceivable that anyone today could claim not to 
grasp the magnitude and horror of the crimes. No one 
can support Israel’s right to self-defence without regard 
for the fate of the thousands of victims of our people. 
No  one  can  ignore  the  simple  fact,  upon  which  we 
insist, that the life of a Palestinian is as precious as the 
life of any other human being. Ignoring the facts on the 
ground cannot erase such facts. We must also assume 
that no one can continue to wonder why extremism is 
rising  and  why  the  culture  of  peace  is  losing  ground 
and receding, while efforts to achieve it are collapsing. 
And yet we continue to believe and hope that this time 
no one will try to help out the occupation by supporting 
its  impunity  and  its  attempts  to  evade  accountability 
for its crimes.
Here, today, in the name of Palestine, I affirm that 
we will not forget or forgive, and we will not allow war 
criminals to escape punishment. Before the Assembly, 
I  affirm  that  the  Palestinian  people  will  hold  fast  to 
their legitimate right to defend themselves against the 
Israeli war machine and to resist Israel’s colonial, racist 
occupation. At the same time, I want to affirm that not 
for one moment will our grief, trauma and anger make 
us abandon our humanity, our values and our ethics. We 
will always maintain our respect for and commitment 
to  international  law,  international  humanitarian  law 
and the international consensus. We will maintain the 
traditions  of  our  national  struggle  established  by  the 
Palestinian martyrs, to which we have been committed 
since  the  start  of  the  Palestinian  revolution  in  early 
1965.
In  the  midst  of  a  torrent  of  massacres  and  the 
turmoil of vast destruction, we saw the peoples of the 
world gather in huge demonstrations on the streets of 
many cities to announce their condemnation of Israel’s 
aggression and occupation and their support of freedom 
for  Palestine.  We  also  saw  how  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  countries  around  the  world  declared 
themselves  for  the  same  noble  position  and  rushed  to 
give  our  people  all  kinds  of  support  and  assistance. 
And we saw a qualitative and quantitative expansion in 
the activities of the international grassroots boycotting 
campaign  against  Israel’s  policies  of  occupation, 
apartheid  and  colonial  settlement,  especially  among 
academic,  cultural,  student  and  youth  groups.  In  the 
name  of  Palestine,  we  pay  tribute  to  all  who  chose 
to  stand  with  human  values  and  demanded  freedom, 
justice  and  peace.  All  of  those  manifestations  of  true 
solidarity  constituted  an  important  message  to  those 
who faced genocide in Gaza, helping them to feel that 
they were not alone.
The  recent  war  confirmed  on  the  ground  the 
essence of what the Israeli Government had been saying 
behind closed doors in negotiations. It came after long, 
difficult negotiations held over more than eight months 
under the auspices of the United States and through the 
efforts  of  President  Barack  Obama  and  his  tenacious 
Secretary  of  State,  John  Kerry.  We  engaged  in  that 
endeavour  and  with  the  American  Administration’s 
efforts with open minds and in good faith and a positive 
spirit. We laid out firm positions based on resolutions 
of  international  legitimacy.  We  genuinely  respected 
all our commitments and understandings. Even as we 
watched the ongoing and escalating Israeli violations, 
we  exercised  incredible  self-restraint,  silencing  our 
cries and tending to our own wounds in order to give the 
American efforts the best possible chance for success.
However, as usual, the Israeli Government missed 
no  opportunity  to  undermine  the  chances  for  peace. 
Throughout  the  months  of  negotiations,  settlement 
construction, 
land  confiscation,  home  demolition, 
14-54935
21/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
killing  and  arrest  campaigns  and  large-scale  forced 
displacement in the West Bank continued unabated. The 
unjust blockade of the Gaza Strip was tightened. The 
occupation’s campaign specifically targeted the city of 
Jerusalem and its inhabitants, attempting to artificially 
alter the spirit, identity and character of the Holy City 
and  focusing  on  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  while  threatening 
grave  consequences.  At  the  same  time,  armed  gangs 
of  racist  settlers  persisted  in  their  crimes  against  the 
Palestinian  people  and  their  land,  mosques,  churches, 
property and olive trees.
Again  as  usual,  the  Israeli  Government  failed 
the  test  of  peace.  It  breached  an  agreement  with  the 
United  States  Administration  regarding  the  release 
from  the  occupation  jails  of  a  number  of  Palestinian 
prisoners,  who  we  continue  to  insist  should  all  be 
released.  When  confronted  with  simple  questions 
during  the  direct  negotiations  or  through  the  United 
States  mediator,  Israel  had  no  hesitation  in  revealing 
its  true  positions.  It  refuses  to  end  the  occupation  of 
the State of Palestine that began in 1967; rather it seeks 
to  continue  and  entrench  it,  rejecting  the  Palestinian 
State and refusing to reach a just solution to the plight 
of  the  Palestine  refugees.  That  is  the  Government  of 
Israel’s official position. At best, the future it proposes 
for  the  Palestinian  people  consists  of  isolated  ghettos 
for Palestinians on fragmented lands, without borders 
or  sovereignty  over  its  air  space,  water  and  natural 
resources,  under  the  subjugation  and  control  of  the 
racist settlers and the army of occupation; at worst, it 
is  a  totally  abhorrent  form  of  apartheid.  Some  of  the 
Israelis say they are for two States. Where is the State 
of Palestine? This is what they intend for the State of 
Palestine.
Israel  confirmed  during  the  negotiations  that  it 
rejects making peace with its victims, the Palestinian 
people.  All  of  this  has  been  carried  out  along  with 
an  attempt  to  brand  the  conflict  as  a  religious  one 
against  a  background  of  increasingly  rampant  racism 
in Israel’s political and media discourse, as well as its 
entrenchment  in  the  school  curriculum  and  a  series 
of laws and practices in favour of the occupation and 
its  settlers.  This  culture  of  racism,  incitement  and 
hatred  was  glaringly  apparent  some  months  ago  in 
an  appallingly  despicable  crime  committed  by  fascist 
settlers,  who  abducted  Mohammed  Abu  Khdeir,  a 
young boy from Jerusalem, burned him alive and killed 
him.
This brings me to another fact of history. Over the 
years, the occupying Power has pursued a policy aimed 
at  deliberately  weakening  the  Palestinian  National 
Authority  in  order  to  undermine  it  and  make  its  role 
irrelevant.  The  occupation  has  targeted  our  relentless 
efforts  to  establish  the  foundations  for  the  kind  of 
State  of  Palestine  that  we  want  —  a  sovereign  and 
independent State living in peace and building bridges 
of mutual cooperation with its neighbours, respecting 
its  commitments,  obligations  and  agreements  and 
strengthening 
the  values  of  citizenship,  equality, 
nondiscrimination,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and 
pluralism.
We want a State that deepens Palestine’s enlightened 
traditions of tolerance, coexistence and non-exclusion, 
strengthens  the  culture  of  peace,  promotes  the  role 
of  women,  establishes  an  effective  administration 
committed  to  the  standards  of  good  governance,  and 
cares  for  the  needs  and  interests  of  its  people.  The 
occupation  struck,  and  continues  to  strike,  a  blow  at 
this effort because our quest is the antithesis of Israel’s 
settlement policies, and because Israel seeks to destroy 
Palestine’s  chance  of  creating  an  independent  State 
within the framework of the two-State solution.
When  our  efforts  to  end  the  internal  division 
through national dialogue succeeded a few months ago 
and we prepared to restore the unity of our land, nation 
and  institutions,  we  formed  a  national-consensus 
Government  and  began  a  process  that  was  to  lead  to 
presidential  and  legislative  elections.  All  countries 
around  the  world  welcomed  this  achievement,  with 
the exception of Israel, which has constantly sought to 
fragment our land and our national unity.
Where do we go from here? The idea that one can 
simply return to the past patterns of actions that failed 
repeatedly  is  naive  at  best  and,  in  any  case,  wrong. 
For it ignores the fact that it is no longer acceptable or 
possible to repeat methods that have proved futile, or 
to continue with approaches that have repeatedly failed 
and  that  require  comprehensive  review  and  radical 
correction.
It is impossible — I repeat, impossible — to return 
to  the  cycle  of  negotiations  that  failed  to  deal  with 
the  core  of  the  Palestinian  question.  There  is  neither 
credibility  nor  seriousness  in  negotiations  in  which 
Israel  predetermines  the  results  via  its  settlement 
activities  and  the  occupation’s  brutality.  Nor  is  there 
meaning or value in negotiations in which the agreed 
22/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
objective  is  not  ending  the  Israeli  occupation  and 
achieving  the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  on  the  entire 
Palestinian territory occupied in the 1967 war. Moreover, 
negotiations that are not linked to a firm timetable for 
the implementation of this goal have no value. The time 
has come to end this colonial occupation.
Palestine refuses to have the right to freedom of its 
people, who suffer terrorism at the hands of the racist 
occupying  Power  and  its  settlers  and  remain  hostage 
to Israel’s security conditions. The Palestinian people 
are actually the ones who need immediate international 
protection  —  a  protection  they  are  seeking  through 
international  organizations.  They  are  in  need  of  the 
security and peace that they more than any other people 
are  denied.  And  the  children  of  Palestine  are  worthy 
of  the  world’s  efforts  to  ensure  that  their  childhood, 
dreams and lives will not once again be destroyed. It is 
time for the chapters of this renewed, ongoing tragedy 
to be closed.
Those who were uprooted from their warm homes, 
good land and beautiful country in Al-Nakba 66 years 
ago, who were pushed into the misery of exile to live 
as refugees, and are now being forced into new waves 
of expulsion or onto ships of death on the world’s seas, 
need  assurances.  They  need  to  be  assured  that  they 
will not be displaced from their homes again, that their 
homes will not be destroyed again, and that they will 
not spend their lives waiting for the outbreak of a new 
war. Is it not time for this long tragedy to end?
We  will  not  forever  accept  demands  to  prove  our 
good intentions by making concessions at the expense 
of our rights, to remain silent as we are killed and our 
land  is  stolen,  and  to  understand  the  conditions  of 
the  other  party  and  the  importance  of  preserving  its 
coalition  Government,  while  its  occupation  becomes 
more  entrenched.  We  are  exhausted  by  the  additional 
tests  that  we  must  undergo  to  prove  our  efficiency, 
competence and eligibility to earn our natural, simple 
right to live a normal life; our inherent right to expect a 
stable and ordinary tomorrow and to dream about more 
beautiful days; and the right of our youth to plan their 
future  safely  with  peace  and  freedom  prevailing  over 
our land, like other peoples of the world. The time has 
come for a genuine and ust peace to prevail in the land 
of peace. As I have said more than once, we are the only 
people in the world that remain under occupation.
All 
the  Arab  countries  and  ourselves  have 
constantly  warned  about  the  disastrous  consequences 
of  the  continuing  Israeli  colonial  occupation  and  the 
denial of freedom and independence to the Palestinian 
people.  We  have  repeatedly  pointed  out  that  allowing 
Israel to act as a State above the law without being held 
accountable  or  punished  for  its  policies,  aggression 
and  defiance  of  the  international  community’s  will 
and  legality  has  provided  fertile  ground  for,  and  an 
environment  conducive  to,  the  growth  of  extremism, 
hatred and terrorism in our region.
Confronting the terrorism that plagues our region 
by groups like the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
and  others,  which  have  no  basis  whatsoever  in  the 
tolerant  Islamic  religion  or  humanity,  and  whose 
members  are  committing  vile  and  heinous  atrocities, 
requires  much  more  than  military  confrontation.  The 
matter  is  of  the  utmost  urgency  and  requires  much 
more than condemnations and declarations of positions, 
which are of course necessary. What is needed, first and 
foremost, is a comprehensive, credible strategy to dry 
up the sources of terrorism and eradicate its roots in all 
political,  intellectual,  economic  and  social  spheres  in 
our region. It requires the creation of solid foundations 
for  a  practical  consensus  rendering  the  fight  against 
all forms of terrorism everywhere a collective task to 
be  undertaken  by  an  alliance  of  peoples,  nations  and 
civilizations. It requires, as a priority, ending the Israeli 
occupation,  that  in  its  practices  and  perpetuation, 
constitutes an abhorrent form of State terrorism and a 
breeding ground for incitement, tension and hatred.
At a time when we are still suffering from the horrors 
of war, we face a formidable challenge to reconstruct 
what has been destroyed by occupation. This is the third 
time we are attempting to rebuild after the destruction 
inflicted on us by the occupation. We greatly appreciate 
the fact that next month, at the invitation of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt and the Kingdom of Norway, the city 
of Cairo will host an international conference on relief 
and reconstruction for the Gaza Strip. Our Government 
will  present  comprehensive  reports  to  the  conference 
on  the  losses  the  acts  of  aggression  have  inflicted  on 
various  sectors  of  society,  and  it  will  provide  details 
of  plans  and  programmes  to  be  rapidly  implemented 
in  the  Gaza  Strip,  aimed  at  meeting  immediate  relief 
needs and the requirements for reconstruction, in full 
coordination  with  and  under  the  supervision  of  the 
relevant United Nations agencies and bodies.
The President returned to the Chair.
Just  a  couple  of  days  ago,  the  Palestinian  faction 
emphasized  its  support  for  Gaza  in  order  to  facilitate 
14-54935
23/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
reconstruction. While we reiterate our appreciation and 
gratitude  to  all  the  countries  and  organizations  that 
hastened  to  help  the  Palestinian  people  both  during 
and after the war, we are confident that brotherly and 
friendly  countries  will  not  waver  in  their  support  for 
the  plans  and  programmes  we  will  present,  and  that 
the conference will have practical results that can meet 
the expectations and needs of the victims of this act of 
aggression.
We  reaffirm  here  that  the  chief  prerequisite  for 
the  success  of  all  these  plans  and  efforts  is  an  end 
to  the  despicable  ongoing  Israeli  blockade  that  has 
suffocated the Gaza Strip for years and turned it into 
the  largest  prison  in  the  world  for  nearly  2  million 
Palestinian  citizens.  At  the  same  time,  we  affirm  our 
commitment  to  and  the  importance  of  consolidating 
the ceasefire through the negotiations being conducted 
under the auspices of Egypt. However, in order to avoid 
a repetition of the cycle of war and reconstruction every 
two  or  three  years,  it  is  imperative  that  we  focus  on 
the fundamental issue and starting point, which is that 
Gaza’s  suffering  will  never  be  completely  over  until 
the  occupation  is  ended  and  the  State  of  Palestine’s 
independence achieved.
During the past two weeks, Palestine and the Group 
of Arab States have been working intensively with the 
various regional groups in the United Nations to prepare 
for the introduction of a draft resolution on the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict for adoption by the Security Council 
and to advance efforts to achieve peace, which we still 
believe  can  be  accomplished  through  international 
legitimacy. This endeavour reaffirms our commitment 
to achieving a just peace through a negotiated solution 
and  a  diplomatic  and  political  effort  through  United 
Nations bodies. It is inspired by and based fully on the 
spirit and provisions of the many resolutions that have 
been adopted in the General Assembly and the Security 
Council,  laying  the  foundations  for  a  lasting  solution 
and a just peace. There is nothing new here. All of these 
are previously adopted resolutions.
This  endeavour  hopes  to  correct  the  failure  of 
previous  efforts  to  achieve  peace  by  affirming  the 
goal  of  ending  the  Israeli  occupation  and  achieving 
a  two-State  solution  for  the  State  of  Palestine,  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  over  the  entire  territory 
occupied in 1967, alongside the State of Israel, and with a 
just and agreed-on solution to the plight of the Palestine 
refugees  on  the  basis  of  resolution  194  (III),  with  a 
specific time frame for implementing those objectives, 
as stipulated in the Arab Peace Initiative. There must 
be a time frame. That will be linked to the immediate 
resumption of negotiations between Palestine and Israel 
in order to demarcate the borders, reach a detailed and 
comprehensive agreement on all final status issues and 
then draft a comprehensive peace treaty between us and 
them.
We are confident that this endeavour will enjoy the 
full support of those who are committed to ensuring that 
our country will not witness new wars and atrocities, 
who wish to support a campaign to combat terrorism, 
who  believe  we  must  act  expeditiously  to  rectify  the 
historical injustice inflicted by the Nakba on the people 
of Palestine, and who wish to see peace prevail in the 
land  of  monotheistic  religions.  The  adoption  of  that 
draft resolution will affirm that this year the Assembly 
is striving to realize the International Year of Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People,  who  will  continue  to  be 
steadfast in their struggle and will rise brave and strong 
from the rubble of destruction. As our poet Mahmoud 
Darwish  has  said,  we  are  infected  with  the  incurable 
disease  of  hope,  and  we  love  life  if  we  are  given  a 
chance at it.
There is an occupation that must end now. There is 
a people who must be freed immediately. The hour of 
independence of the State of Palestine has arrived, and 
I believe you are listening for it.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the State of Palestine 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, Member 
of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by a Member of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, Member of the Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
24/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nebojša 
Radmanović, Member of the Presidency of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly.
Mr. Radmanović (Bosnia and Herzegovina) (spoke 
in  Bosnian;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I 
will start with the issue that I believe is of the utmost 
importance today, the one causing the greatest concern. 
Currently,  the  world  is  in  a  state  of  chaos  which  is 
producing understandable fear and concern among its 
citizens as to a peaceful and secure future. There has 
not been so much war in the world since the late 1960s. 
Today, in many parts of our planet, there are low- and 
medium-intensity  conflicts  that  have  the  potential 
to  produce  wider  regional  and  global  conflicts.  From 
Afghanistan  to  Ukraine,  the  Middle  East,  Libya, 
Central  Africa  and  other  regions,  we  are  witnessing 
armed  conflicts  with  no  chance  in  sight  of  our  being 
able to stop them and reach a lasting peace.
These  conflicts  are  accompanied  by  a  rarely 
seen escalation of all forms of violence and brutality, 
particularly  against  civilians.  Increased  numbers  of 
internal civil conflicts are causing States to fall apart, 
some  of  them  disappearing  overnight,  others  arising 
with  the  support  of  outside  enablers.  We  also  see  the 
public  emergence  of  new  political  maps  drawn  with 
new  borders,  separatist  movements  getting  stronger 
and international laws being violated with use of force. 
The  situation  is  the  result  of  the  unilateral  actions  of 
some  great  Powers,  double  standards  in  international 
relations, the breaking of the cohesive legal world order 
and other actions contrary to the norms of international 
law.
On the other hand, years of economic and financial 
crisis have led to dramatic social change with alarming 
socioeconomic  consequences.  Despite  growing  global 
prosperity,  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor  countries 
and  nations  is  getting  wider.  The  middle  class  is 
getting  smaller  while  inequality  within  societies  is 
growing. Systems of social support are declining, with 
unemployment, especially among young people, taking 
on  alarming  proportions.  Given  the  general  situation, 
we must think about future development.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is at present a developing 
country  characterized  by  an  open  and  fully  liberal 
economy with foreign trade and economic ties directed 
towards  the  countries  of  the  region  and  the  European 
Union. Unfortunately, as a developing country, we are 
facing the problem of a high unemployment rate — over 
25 per cent — a large trade deficit, lack of capital and 
major investment and insufficient and weak industrial 
production.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina’s  economic  and  social 
situation is similar to that of the region of the Western 
Balkans  in  general.  It  is  extremely  difficult.  The 
economic  reconstruction  and  recovery  of  the  country 
after the tragic conflict of 1991-1995 have slowed since 
the  global  economic  crisis  engulfed  the  entire  world. 
However,  while  total  economic  growth  in  2013  was 
1  per  cent,  industrial  production  increased  to  6.7  per 
cent.  The  biggest  economic  problem  is  the  decline  in 
foreign investment, which in 2013 was 34 per cent less 
than  in  2012.  Due  to  the  general  economic  downturn 
in  the  country  and  countries  of  the  region,  as  well 
as  the  damage  caused  by  natural  disasters  and  their 
negative effects on economic and production activities, 
the  decline  in  indirect  tax  revenues  significantly 
endangered the fiscal stability of the country.
Regardless  of  current  negative  economic  trends 
due  to  the  economic  crisis,  we  believe  that  by  using 
our  natural  resources  appropriately  we  can  achieve 
an economic growth and development that would lead 
to  long-term  progress  and  political  stabilization  of 
the country. In order to do that, it is clear that we and 
the  region  need  the  support  of  the  developed  world, 
especially  the  developed  countries  of  the  European 
Union, the United States and Japan as well as Brazil, 
Russia, India, China and South Africa.
We  cannot  achieve  sustainable  development  that 
involves investment in the real sector of the economy, 
building and developing transportation infrastructure, 
poverty  reduction,  and  the  effective  and  rational  use 
of resources entirely by ourselves. We are too small a 
country  and  region  to  achieve  those  objectives  alone, 
nor  do  we  have  enough  capital  to  build  industrial 
facilities  that  adhere  to  green  economy  principles  or 
protect  natural  resources  and  put  us  on  a  sustainable 
development track.
When  it  comes  to  the  economic  determinants  of 
sustainable development, I am convinced that most small 
countries share the same perspective and position. We 
cannot resolve issues of progress alone or prevent the 
emergence of the vicious cycle of poverty that threatens 
to  undermine  our  societies.  Therefore,  in  future  we 
will  need  to  continue  to  adhere  to  the  principles  of 
economic solidarity and mutual economic cooperation 
14-54935
25/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
and support, and find a common framework of values 
and actions.
down  and  stopped  with  the  emergence  of  the  global 
economic and financial crisis starting in 2008.
In addition, given the multipolarity of the economic 
world,  I  hope  that  we  will  find  more  partners  from 
developed countries on our path towards development 
and  recovery.  The  world  of  the  future  should  not  be 
determined  by  the  false  choice  between  haves  and 
have-nots. Apart from the issue of uncertainty for the 
future, every crisis entails the erroneous belief that rich 
countries fare better than poor ones. Indeed, one forgets 
that, due to global interdependence and responsibility, 
no  one  can  survive  alone;  either  we  all  do  or  nobody 
does.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
remains  committed 
to  meeting 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
despite  the  difficulty  of  their  implementation,  given 
the  challenging  conditions  following  the  war  and  the 
economic crisis. Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed 
to  regional  cooperation  with  all  interested  countries, 
based on the principles of mutual respect and common 
interests.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  surrounded  by 
neighbours who are also in various stages of transition 
and  democratic  reform,  and  we  share  the  same 
problems arising from the complex processes that must 
be  engaged  on  our  way  towards  membership  in  the 
European Union.
We  attach 
regional 
cooperation.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  good-
neighbourly  relations  marked  by  long  historical  ties 
and  regional  interdependence  with  Serbia,  Croatia 
and  Montenegro  and  other  countries  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia and the Balkans.
special 
importance 
to 
All  of  us  gathered  here  today  representing  our 
countries  and  peoples  need,  in  the  near  and  distant 
future,  to  find  concrete  and  clear  solutions  to  the 
problems and challenges caused by the broadest range 
of  sustainable  development  issues,  as  defined  by  a 
number of the United Nations conferences over the past 
20  years.  The  sustainable  development  of  countries, 
regions  and  groups  of  countries,  continents  and  the 
entire world is a key element and basic starting point 
for  further  strategic  steps  and  activities  for  modern 
humankind to resolve. The state of the world economy, 
environment and the contemporary society as a whole 
is  full  of  problems  and  challenges  that  require  our 
full  commitment  and  dedication  to  continued  growth 
and  the  expanded  possibility  of  achieving  sustainable 
development in the world, which unfortunately slowed 
I  should  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  possible 
problems related to sustainable development in Bosnia 
and Herzegovina and the region of South-East Europe 
as an important European region poised to build strong 
political  and  economic  ties  with  the  European  Union 
and other countries worldwide.
I am afraid that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina do 
not have the same starting position as other countries 
of  the  world  in  terms  of  inclusion  in  the  sustainable 
development  process  of  the  United  Nations.  In  1992, 
when the first conference was held in Rio de Janeiro, 
we  were  at  the  beginning  of  a  horrendous  chapter 
of  our  history  and  a  tragic  conflict  whose  negative 
political and economic effects have continued to cause 
suffering in society. However, with the support of the 
United Nations and the European Union, today we are 
on the road to recovery, with the hope of achieving the 
ultimate  goal  of  political  success,  namely,  full  legal 
integration into the European Union and the economic 
achievement of developed country status.
This  year  the  world  is  celebrating  the  centenary 
of  the  outbreak  of  the  First  World  War.  Incredibly, 
the  current  world  economic  and  political  situation 
resembles  the  situation  of  100  years  ago.  A  crisis 
of  economic  depression,  social  disintegration,  an 
ineffective international system and the rise of armed 
conflicts  and  wars  have  led  to  a  weakening  of  the 
optimistic driving force and a lack of global vision and 
joint action. The common goal that is necessary for a 
stable  international  order  is  fading  on  the  horizon  of 
spreading conflicts. It requires us to set clear priorities 
and seek new lighthouse beacons.
This  year  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  we  marked 
the  Sarajevo  assassination  that  is  commonly  taken  as 
the  direct  cause  of  the  start  of  the  First  World  War, 
which  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  more  than  15  million 
people. At several events dedicated to the anniversary, 
together we have asked ourselves: Have we learned the 
lessons from the past of 100 years ago? When I see the 
local wars being fought on all sides of the world today, 
I am afraid that we have not learned those lessons; on 
the contrary and in the meantime, we have repeated the 
same old mistakes and made new ones.
The  world  needs  peace  more  than  ever.  It  is 
only  in  peace  that  one  can  develop  and  prosper.  The 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  is 
26/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
imperative  to  the  development  of  every  country  and 
the entire world. It is the responsibility of the Member 
States  to  find  acceptable  frameworks  and  tools  to 
improve  the  security  situation  in  the  world  in  the 
interest of development and progress.
In  conclusion,  three  days  ago  I  spoke  in  my 
capacity  as  a  Member  of  the  Presidency  of  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, at the Climate Summit. Yesterday I 
met with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in the same 
capacity.  Today,  the  Secretariat  has  allowed  itself  to 
interpret the Charter of the United Nations wrongfully, 
unfortunately.  That  is  unacceptable.  The  future  of 
the  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  is  based  on 
consensual agreement by all Member States and not the 
decisions of the bureaucracy.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Member 
of  the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, Member of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the Independent State of Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Tuilaepa 
Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the  Independent  State 
of  Samoa,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): Samoa congratulates the 
President  on  his  election  and  lends  its  full  support  to 
the agenda that will guide our work during his tenure. 
In  the  same  spirit,  I  applaud  our  Secretary-General 
and  Samoan  Prince  Tupua  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  firm 
commitment  and  strong  leadership  in  steering  our 
Organization  during  this  particularly  turbulent  and 
difficult period for the world.
As members of the global family, our futures and 
interests  are  inextricably  linked.  Crises  with  a  global 
reach threaten to engulf the world and affect all nations 
irrespective  of  whether  they  caused  or  contributed  to 
the crisis.
Climate change is one such crisis. It is the world’s 
most urgent problem and the greatest moral challenge 
of our time. Known crises of global dimensions pale in 
comparison to what climate change poses to our world 
as  a  whole  and  to  the  future  security  of  some  of  our 
low-lying islands as sovereign States. Climate change is 
indifferent to the suffering of countries touched by its 
destructive reach. The victims can be rich or poor, large 
or small, resilient or vulnerable, but they hardly matter. 
It  impacts  all.  For  some  there  are  already  existential 
implications  looming.  Others  may  consider  the  effect 
on them to be minimal. Such complacency would be a 
grave  mistake  and  tantamount  to  gross  negligence.  If 
climate  change  is  not  addressed  comprehensively,  the 
consequences  for  our  planet  will  be  dire  indeed  and 
will affect all countries.
No  country  should  therefore  stay  detached  and 
unconcerned  before  the  plight  of  the  majority.  All 
countries  must  work  together.  Apportioning  blame 
for the present state of our environment is in itself yet 
another  human  failing.  It  serves  no  useful  purpose. 
Being  judgemental  will  not  restore  our  environment. 
Those  who  exploit  the  traditional  divide  between 
developed  and  developing  countries  and  ideological 
and  political  differences  do  so  conveniently,  to  mask 
their own unwillingness to be part of the solution to an 
impending global catastrophe.
There is too much at stake for the world to just sit 
idly by. Strong visionary leadership that rises beyond 
the  dictates  of  vested  national  interests  and  political 
tenures  and  views  the  world  as  a  single  constituency 
where  everyone  must  work  together  within  the  limits 
of their capacity and capability to be part of the total 
solution is at a premium. Governments must yield — not 
to vested interests and expediency of time, but because 
it is the ethical and just thing to do. Our timelines are 
slipping by fast and soon we will be playing catch-up. 
Yet  each  day  lost  to  indecisiveness  and  wrangling  on 
petty  points  only  intensifies  the  challenges  we  face. 
The  Lima  and  Paris  climate  conferences  will  provide 
the best openings for the world to redeem itself. States 
14-54935
27/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
Members  of  the  United  Nations  should  step  forward 
with a sense of urgency and commitment to addressing 
climate change today, not tomorrow. It should not just 
be science and real life experiences that force us to act, 
but also our consciences.
Against  this  backdrop,  the  Climate  Summit  on 
Tuesday was timely. Its message was clear and simple. 
Our  actions  to  address  climate  change  are  grossly 
inadequate.  We  are  focusing  more  on  symptoms  than 
on the root causes, and the solemn truth is that things 
will only get worse if we do not act collectively now. 
However, a ray of hope, best captured in the following 
fundamental  truths,  is  couched  delicately  in  this 
ominous prediction.
First,  climate  change 
is  a  societal  problem 
requiring decisive political leadership and a whole-of-
society  approach.  Every  individual  effort  and  every 
national  action  counts  because  in  unity  we  succeed, 
but in division there is little we can do. Secondly, we 
need a global solution if we are to succeed. The United 
Nations  is  our  last  best  hope.  It  is  indispensable  to  a 
sustainable  solution  that  we  provide  the  necessary 
commitment to turning the tide against climate change. 
Thirdly, climate change is solvable, and the solution is 
firmly in our hands.
Only  through  enlightened  leadership  and  the 
concerted  efforts  of  all  countries,  with  the  major 
greenhouse gas emitters at the forefront, do we stand 
a chance of lessening the destructive impact of climate 
change  and  of  reaching  a  credible  post-Kyoto  climate 
agreement  next  year.  Samoa  calls  upon  those  States 
Members of our Organization that are in a position of 
world  leadership  to  lead  the  charge  and  to  undertake 
the  tasks  that  need  to  be  implemented  quickly  and 
decisively  so  that  the  Paris  conference  can  deliver 
on  an  ambitious  climate  change  agreement  that  is 
effective,  binding,  capable  of  swift  implementation, 
and universally owned and respected by the 193 States 
Members of the United Nations.
The Ebola outbreak is a deadly pandemic causing 
chaos  and  untold  suffering  in  parts  of  West  Africa. 
Its reach is global and if it is not treated it may prove 
unstoppable.  It  has  no  respect  for  national  borders  or 
Government  sovereignty,  and  its  victims  are  selected 
indiscriminately.  Born  and  unborn  babies  are  robbed 
of  their  youth,  girls  and  boys  of  their  adulthood,  and 
women and men of their productive lives, their dignity 
and  worth,  while  countries  are  dispossessed  and 
deprived of their valuable human assets.
Can we win the war on Ebola? Samoa believes that 
we can and we should. That was why we were honoured 
to be among the 134 co-sponsors of Security Council 
resolution 2177 (2014) on peace and security in Africa, 
with  reference  to  Ebola,  last  Thursday.  The  Security 
Council  resolution  was  adopted  with  the  highest-ever 
number  of  sponsors  and  was  swiftly  followed  the 
next  day  by  General  Assembly  resolution  69/1,  which 
unanimously approved a proposal to establish the United 
Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response. Samoa 
welcomes the rapid, decisive and coordinated response 
of  United  Nations  Member  States  and  agencies,  and 
in  particular  the  proactive  role  the  Secretary-General 
played  in  mobilizing  both  the  political  will  and  the 
material  resources  necessary  to  respond  to  this  grave 
crisis.
The  global  response  to  the  Ebola  outbreak  is  a 
powerful  illustration  of  what  is  possible  when  States 
collaborate  and  coordinate  to  assist  each  other  in 
achieving  common  and  critical  goals.  Such  unified 
responses have tangible results and save lives. Samoa 
encourages  all  Member  States  to  take  this  spirit  of 
cooperation  forward,  and  to  harness  and  follow  this 
example when dealing with other critical global issues.
As  we  meet  here  at  the  United  Nations,  the 
rise  in  extremism  has  a  taken  a  turn  for  the  worst. 
Radical  militants  are  committing  unspeakably  brutal 
and  barbaric  atrocities  across  the  Middle  East,  and 
threatening to spread their evil brand further afield. As 
a small island nation in the Pacific Ocean, these threats 
can  seem  extremely  far  removed  from  my  country 
of  Samoa.  However,  in  the  globalized  age  in  which 
we  live,  all  countries  are  threatened  by  challenges  to 
international peace and security. Developments in one 
State invariably have effects in others, and this is true 
of my country, far away as we are.
Global interconnectedness has brought innumerable 
benefits to all countries, but it also increasingly brings 
risks from distant corners of the Earth. As such, it is 
imperative  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member 
States commit to tackling threats to international peace 
and security, especially through the Security Council. 
Specifically,  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
must  increase  their  collaboration  and  cooperation  to 
find solutions to challenges to peace and security, and 
work diligently to implement them.
The  United  Nations  was  founded  upon  the  values 
of collective security and, for small nations, remains a 
critical forum in which to contribute to the maintenance 
28/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
of  international  peace  and  security,  stability  and 
prosperity.  This  is  particularly  important  for  small 
island developing States (SIDS), which risk a reversal 
of the development gains they have made due to crises 
far from home. To cement and build upon development 
goals  already  achieved, 
international  peace  and 
security must be maintained, and it is the responsibility 
of all Member States, particularly those on the Security 
Council, to work in close cooperation to ensure that this 
happens.
Samoa  belongs  to  the  group  of  small  island 
developing States, a United Nations-recognized group 
with special needs and inherent vulnerabilities, not by 
choice,  but  by  dint  of  factors  completely  outside  its 
control. Part of the dilemma we continually face is the 
misconception  that  SIDS  challenges  are  minuscule  in 
comparison  to  the  needs  of  other  special  groups  and 
regions, and that their one and only concern is climate 
change. Nothing could be further from the truth.
My  country  was  honoured  to  host,  on  behalf  of 
the  Pacific  region,  the  once-in-a  decade  International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States  three 
weeks ago. Our primary goal in hosting the Third SIDS 
Conference  was  to  have  the  spotlight  of  international 
attention  fall  on  SIDS,  their  challenges  and  realities. 
Now  that  the  spotlight  has  faded,  we  hope  that  the 
increased  understanding  and  appreciation  of  SIDS 
issues and challenges gained at the Conference will not 
be forgotten over time or sidelined by other competing 
priority issues.
The international community has a very full agenda. 
We  as  nations  are  being  pulled  in  many  directions. 
This  general  debate  and  the  sixty-ninth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  will  show  just  how  packed 
the  agenda  is.  The  follow-up  to  the  SIDS  Conference 
will be part of that agenda. It is our hope that, despite 
all  the  political,  economic  and  other  demands  on  the 
countries of the world, the realities of SIDS, so clearly 
spelled out in Apia and in the Small Island Developing 
States Accelerated Modalities of Action — the SAMOA 
Pathway  —  are  able  to  retain  the  attention  of  the 
wider international community. We took seriously the 
commitments made to SIDS at the Conference and we 
will remain deeply mindful of how those commitments 
are turned into actions.
The Conference had as its theme “The sustainable 
development  of  SIDS  through  genuine  and  durable 
partnerships”.  We  are  ready  to  build  on  our  existing 
partnerships. We may be small, but we are also able to 
demonstrate the impact of our people and our countries 
in  successful, 
twenty-first  century  partnerships. 
We  may  be  small  and  sometimes  invisible  to  many. 
However,  we  know  that  united  the  SIDS  are  a  strong 
and positive group. The Alliance of Small Island States 
(AOSIS)  is  showing  its  determination  in  a  growing 
range  of  areas  and  forums.  Samoa,  like  other  Pacific 
islands, is proud of its place within AOSIS.
The SAMOA Pathway asks the Secretary-General 
to undertake a comprehensive review of how the United 
Nations system supports SIDS. This is an opportunity 
to ensure that the United Nations is fit for the purpose 
when it comes to supporting SIDS. There is ample scope 
for  improvement,  and  we  look  forward  to  engaging 
fully in the process. The time for business as usual has 
long passed. Let us work for an approach to SIDS that 
shows the United Nations at its best.
is 
a  well-crafted 
intergovernmental  agreement  that  has  the  seal  and 
stamp of approval of the United Nations membership. 
Going  forward,  it  falls  on  SIDS  themselves  to  be 
prepared to lead and own the SAMOA Pathway if it is 
to  be  sustainable.  Together  with  the  specific  entities 
within  the  Secretariat  charged  with  advocating  and 
championing  SIDS  causes,  they  should  be  more 
proactive  and  assertive.  Jointly,  they  must  reposition 
themselves  to  engage  better  in  a  more  effective  and 
visible partnership.
The  SAMOA  Pathway 
Moreover, what we need to achieve is a human face 
of  SIDS  to  every  issue  that  comes  before  the  United 
Nations, be it security, human rights, climate change, 
development,  gender  or  indigenous  issues.  That  way, 
SIDS  issues  will  be  at  the  forefront  of  the  United 
Nations agenda. They will remain topical and relevant 
and be taken up, debated and acted upon daily, weekly 
or  monthly  —  and  not  conveniently  set  aside  to  be 
discussed only when we have another SIDS conference 
10 years from now.
Samoa  continues 
to  support  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  efforts  worldwide.  Small  though  we 
are, Samoan police continue to serve side by side with 
officers from other countries in places that require the 
intervention of the United Nations. Within the Pacific 
region, our solidarity with our neighbours in meeting 
challenges means a guaranteed Samoan police presence 
in the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands 
and under the umbrella of the Pacific Islands Forum.
14-54935
29/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
A  durable  peace  settlement  in  the  Middle  East 
continues  to  elude  us,  but  that  is  not  grounds  to  be 
pessimistic.  We  should  support  every  effort  to  create 
conditions conducive to the successful establishment of 
an independent Palestinian State alongside a secure and 
safe State of Israel.
Finally,  those  bent  on  creating  fear  and  panic 
throughout  the  world  will  stop  at  nothing  to  achieve 
their aims. We must not be held hostage to their devious 
designs.  Individually  and  collectively,  we  must  step 
up  our  efforts  to  combat  the  threat  of  international 
terrorism  in  its  many  manifestations.  No  country  can 
succeed  on  its  own.  Only  by  working  collaboratively 
can we be successful.
As  we  approach  the  new  post-2015  development 
agenda, the culmination of many years of international 
negotiations and agreements on sustainable development, 
we must ensure that while a one-framework approach 
is  important,  it  does  not  equate  to  a  one-size-fits-all 
formula for purposes of implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation. Indeed, the applicability of the Millennium 
Development Goals and their indicators to small island 
countries  proved  difficult,  and  much  tailoring  was 
necessary  before  those  global  targets  were  seen  as 
relevant  enough  for  us  to  meaningfully  participate. 
It  is  important  therefore  in  the  defining  and  refining 
of  the  sustainable  development  goals  and  post-2015 
development  agenda  that  we  account  for  groups  like 
SIDS and ensure that the indicators developed are also 
applicable to their situations. Building on the existing 
processes  and  experiences  in  the  SIDS  countries  and 
their  respective  regions  and  subregions  is  critical  in 
that regard.
post-2015 
development 
Fortunately,  we  are  on  the  back  of  a  successful 
SIDS  Conference  whose  theme  focused  on  effective 
means  of  implementation  through  partnerships.  We 
must  ensure  therefore  that  the  means  to  implement 
the  SAMOA  Pathway  is  solidly  incorporated  into 
the 
framework.  Those 
arrangements  are  well  entrenched  in  the  High-level 
Political  Forum  and  the  review  arrangements  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  It  is  important  that 
the  intergovernmental  architectures  of  our  respective 
SIDS regions be included in the process, which means 
working  together.  We  cannot  afford  a  situation  where 
we  have  intergovernmental  organizations  developing 
separate  policies  and  implementation  arrangements 
and  partnerships  for  the  same  things.  We  must  work 
together.
Finally,  we  must  break  down  what  has  been  a 
traditional  them-and-us  perception  on  both  sides  of 
the divide between Member States and the Secretariat 
established  to  serve  our  collective  needs.  It  has  not 
served  either  side  well;  we  are  in  fact  on  the  same 
side.  I  would  therefore  encourage  any  coordination 
mechanisms  established  to  ensure  representation  of 
both  in  order  to  promote  transparency  and  a  balance 
of  perspectives  and 
Inter-Agency 
Consultative Group for SIDS is perhaps an arrangement 
that  could  benefit  from  Member  State  representation 
as well, where open discussions can take place around 
effective implementation of the SAMOA Pathway and 
the post-2015 development agenda.
interests.  The 
Some  of  our  development  partners,  traditional 
and new, have reached out to help us. What they have 
in  common  is  trust  and  respect  for  our  views  and 
needs. Bilaterally, regionally and internationally, they 
are  partnering  with  SIDS  to  overcome  some  of  the 
constraints imposed by limited land and narrow natural 
resource  bases,  isolation  and  downward  agricultural 
production, sustained food security for our expanding 
populations,  and  the  need  to  provide  a  meaningful 
existence for our people and communities in the rural 
areas.
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  prevent 
wars,  bring  peace  and  security,  and  protect  human 
rights  through  multilateralism  and  intergovernmental 
cooperation.  The  architecture  of  the  Organization 
we  have  today  is  very  complex,  and,  inevitably, 
there  are  imperfections.  However,  the  fact  that  we 
have  consistently  met  without  failure  at  the  General 
Assembly  each  year  is  irrefutable  proof  that  our 
Organization  works  at  many  and  different  levels.  It 
is  hard  to  imagine  where  the  world  would  be  without 
the United Nations. It is why Samoa’s support for our 
Organization is unwavering.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the Independent State of Samoa for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent State of Samoa, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
30/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
Address by Mr. Mohammed Fuad Masum, 
President of the Republic of Iraq
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Iraq.
Mr.  Mohammed  Fuad  Masum,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Iraq,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Mohammed 
Fuad Masum, President of the Republic of Iraq, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Masum  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  salute  the 
General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  Iraq  and  congratulate 
Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa on his election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. We 
wish  him  and  the  Secretary-General  every  success 
during  the  session.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the vital role he has played in the 
past years in supporting and enhancing the progress of 
my country, something for which we in Iraq are grateful 
and proud.
themselves 
to 
the  fulfilment  of 
Fourteen years ago, heads of State and Government 
committed 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015, 
focusing  on  issues  that  are  now  still  vital,  foremost 
among which are social and economic development, the 
protection of international peace and security, the end of 
the arms race, disarmament, elimination of weapons of 
mass destruction (WMDs) — whose very name incites 
fear in everyone — fighting terrorism and widespread 
organized  crime,  guaranteeing  human  rights  and  the 
effective  coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance 
efforts,  and  promoting  justice  and  international  law. 
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  remind  the  General 
Assembly of our very bitter memory and experience as 
victims of WMDs in Halabja, the peaceful Kurdish city 
that was attacked by chemical weapons in 1988 at the 
hands of the dictatorial regime then in power.
Next  year,  we  will  celebrate 
the  seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations as an 
Organization  that  represents  international  legitimacy. 
That occasion will allow us to express the value of the 
Organization  and  its  achievements.  It  will  also  be  an 
occasion  to  take  up  more  initiatives  to  settle  disputes 
by  peaceful  means  and  promote  human  rights  and 
larger  freedoms  and  equality  for  all.  We  will  also  be 
celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Fourth 
World  Conference  on  Women,  held  in  Beijing,  which 
was  a  turning  point  in  seeking  to  promote  the  rights 
of women and curb all forms of violence to which they 
are  exposed.  We  need  to  promote  efforts  to  protect 
our  planet  from  pollution  and  create  a  sound,  clean 
environment  to  fight  the  problems  of  poverty,  illness 
and illiteracy.
The success of political parties in Iraq in establishing, 
a few weeks ago, a Government of national unity that 
represents Iraqis every stripe was extremely important. 
It is a Government that everyone feels represents them. 
Its programme responds to their aspirations and hopes 
to move forward with their provinces into another era 
of  stability,  internal  progress  and  rebuilding.  It  is  a 
Government  that  seeks  to  build  friendly  relationships 
in  the  region  based  on  understandings  that  guarantee 
peaceful coexistence among States of the region on the 
basis of mutual interests and good-neighbourliness.
The  establishment  of  the  Government  was  a  firm 
response  to  a  real  danger  that  was  stalking  us  all, 
namely,  the  danger  posed  by  Islamic  State  of  Iraq 
and  the  Levant  (ISIL).  That  infamous  and  evil  group 
has  launched  international  terrorist  actions  to  attack 
defenceless civilians. It has ushered in a new era and 
brought  terror  to  a  new  level.  ISIL  has  been  able  to 
occupy  areas  in  more  than  one  city  in  Iraq  and  Syria 
and  established  a  State  based  on  hatred  and  rejection 
of  the  Other.  In  the  past  few  months,  we  have  seen 
how  that  heinous  terrorist  organization  committed 
crimes against humanity, such as killing and displacing 
people, committing genocide and ethnic cleansing and 
inflicting great suffering on all components of the Iraqi 
people with its horrific crimes and massacres.
It has kidnapped women and sold them as enslaved 
captives. It has destroyed religious shrines and houses 
of worship, as well as cultural and historic monuments. 
It  has  oppressed  components  of  the  Iraqi  people  on 
the  basis  of  their  ethnic  identities,  like  Turkmens 
and  Kurds,  and  targeted  religious  and  confessional 
minorities, 
the 
Shabak. We would like to thank the free people of the 
world who have expressed their dismay, rejected those 
crimes  and  stood  in  solidarity  with  the  victims  by 
providing assistance.
including  Yazidis,  Christians  and 
That 
terrorist  organization  disposes  of  huge 
financial  and  military  assets.  By  declaring  the  so-
14-54935
31/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
called  Islamic  Caliphate,  ISIL  has  become  a  magnet 
for militants and extremists in the Middle East and the 
world, who have declared allegiance to that obscurantist 
regime and started working under its command. Among 
the most dangerous phenomena of that transformation 
is the emergence of a new generation of terrorists who 
have American, European or other citizenship.
The  Iraqi  Armed  Forces,  the  Peshmerga  and  the 
Popular  Defence  volunteers  have  been  able  to  stop 
the advance of ISIL and prevent its occupation of new 
areas.  We  also  succeeded  in  breaking  the  siege  and 
liberating cities that had been occupied by the terrorists 
of that dangerous organization. The huge humanitarian 
and  military  support  that  we  received  from  United 
Nations  organizations,  the  United  States,  the  States 
of  the  European  Union  and  other  friendly  States  has 
played  a  vital  role  in  assisting  us  in  confronting  that 
obscurantist  terrorist  group.  We  shall  neever  forget 
the  support  we  received  against  that  group,  which 
confirmed  to  our  people  that  we  are  not  alone  in  our 
fight against terrorism.
I  would  like  here  to  express  the  gratitude  of  all 
the people of Iraq and our Government’s appreciation 
to all those who stood by us in our war against those 
enemies of humankind. We would like to thank those 
whose efforts made the Paris and Jeddah conferences a 
success. And we would like to thank those who made 
every  effort  to  adopt  a  Security  Council  resolution 
that  guarantees  solidarity  and  partnership  in  facing 
terrorism and the challenges it poses to everyone.
As  we  meet  in  the  Assembly  today,  hundreds  of 
thousands of displaced persons and refugees, who were 
forced to leave their homes without taking with them 
even  the  most  basic  possessions,  look  to  us.  Millions 
of  defenceless  civilians  who  have  been  forced  to  live 
under  the  oppression  and  tyranny  of  the  terrorists  of 
the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIS)  also  look 
to  us.  Their  protection  and  needs  are  our  common 
responsibility. We call on the international community 
to  stand  by  our  side  in  this  war  against  terrorism 
and  to  support  our  efforts  and  those  of  international 
organizations and friendly countries in alleviating the 
suffering of refugees, who hope someday to return to 
their homes and to get rid of ISIS.
ISIS 
is  a 
transnational  and 
intercontinental 
organization. We reiterate here that eliminating it can 
be achieved only by forming a unified global front to 
take  measures  to  fight  the  takfiri  approach  and  dry 
up its connected financial, ideological, organizational 
and  military  resources.  We  in  Iraq  are  determined  to 
cleanse our land of ISIS. We would like to emphasize 
that eliminating terrorism in Iraq will be an important 
step in protecting our region and in ridding the world 
of that danger.
Here we welcome Security Council resolution 2170 
(2014),  adopted  in  August,  which  calls  on  Member 
States  to  prevent  the  support,  financing  and  arming 
of  ISIS  terrorists,  the  Nusra  Front  and  other  entities 
related to Al-Qaida to prevent such flows into Iraq. We 
should also like to commend the Human Rights Council 
for  its  resolution  condemning  ISIS  and  establishing  a 
fact-finding commission to investigate crimes against 
humanity committed by that group against all Iraqis.
In  the  context  of  the  international  response  to 
terrorism,  and  while  we  stress  the  importance  of 
consolidating  the  value  and  culture  of  peace  and 
coexistence 
in  countries  with  multi-ethnic  and 
multi-confessional  societies,  we 
in  Iraq  call  for 
institutionalizing  such  a  responsible  position  at  the 
United  Nations.  Such  institutions  must  be  tasked 
with  developing  and  operationalizing  international 
solidarity,  using  all  the  means  available  to  fight 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and to rid 
the world of its evils. We also believe that the time has 
come to work collectively within individual countries 
and  with  all  countries  in  the  region  so  that  we  can 
defuse tension about our security and achieve national  
understanding  that  contributes  to  limiting  the  space 
available to terrorism, which typically lives off conflict 
and strife. The meetings held in Jeddah, Paris and New 
York  and  the  statements,  declarations  and  resolutions 
adopted  have  sent  important  messages  to  the  Iraqi 
people. We hope that all of them will be translated into 
practical measures.
In  the  Middle  East,  it  hurts  us  to  see  the  recent 
suffering  of  the  fraternal  Palestinian  people  in  Gaza 
and  other  Palestinian  territories.  We  therefore  renew 
our  call  on  the  international  community  to  honour 
its  commitment  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  exert 
concerted  efforts  to  restore  peace  and  return  to  the 
negotiations  table  in  order  to  end  the  conflict  and 
achieve lasting peace and security. For our brothers in 
Yemen and Libya, we hope for stability and the end of 
the threats of terrorism and extremism. We also wish 
success  and  progress  on  the  democratic  path  chosen 
by  the  Libyan  and  Yemeni  peoples.  We  hope  that  the 
fraternal  Syrian  people  will  be  able  to  overcome  the 
32/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
country’s dilemma. We hope that Syrians will unite in 
their  efforts  to  arrive  at  a  political  solution  that  ends 
the  bloodshed  and  preserves  life.  We  also  hope  that 
such a solution will help neighbourly Syria to achieve 
democracy, peace and security in our region. Continued 
tension  in  those  hotbeds  in  our  region  will  only  fuel 
extremism  and  extremist  obscurantist  ideology.  That 
makes us all want to work together to expedite a search 
for solutions to the problems that contributes to creating 
a  humanitarian  environment  based  on  civilization, 
culture and freedom.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
With  regard  to  Ukraine,  we  express  our  concern 
about  the  dangerous  escalation  of  the  situation.  We 
believe that the international community cannot allow 
any exacerbation of the conflict, with the ensuing dire 
consequences  for  civilians,  whether  they  have  been 
displaced or are forced to live in conflict zones.
Iraq  notes  the  results  achieved  by  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
The Group’s recommendations in its report (A/67/941, 
annex)  constitute  an  important  step  and  deserve  our 
appreciation.  We  truly  value  the  efforts  they  have 
made  to  arrive  at  its  conclusions.  However,  the  issue 
of  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  does 
not occupy the space it deserves in the report. It should 
have  been  incumbent  upon  the  Group  to  address  that 
challenge  as  an  objective  on  its  own  and  to  look  into 
its core, manifestations, causes, repercussions and the 
ways to address them.
Throughout  this  era,  humankind  has  been  able 
to  work  to  promote  human  partnership  and  enhance 
prospects for peace, freedom, human rights, prosperity 
and  security.  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  as  a 
representative of a country that was enervated by terror 
for over a decade. On behalf of the millions of families 
of  martyrs,  orphans  and  the  bereaved,  I  address  the 
Assembly to stress that we have no other option but to 
defeat ISIS everywhere. With will, determination and 
vision,  we  look  forward  to  a  future  in  which  we  can 
liberate  our  societies  from  the  risks  that  continue  to 
threaten us.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Iraq for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mohammed  Fuad  Masum,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Iraq,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister, 
Minister of State, Minister for Communication 
and Media and Minister for Worship of the 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  State, 
Minister  for  Communication  and  Media  and  Minister 
for Worship of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State,  Minister  for  Communication  and  Media 
and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime 
Minister, Minister of State, Minister for Communication 
and  Media  and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Bettel  (Luxembourg)  (spoke 
in  French): 
It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  first  time,  and  I  must  say  that  I  do 
so  with  great  emotion.  Commitment,  solidarity  and 
responsibility are the three key words that have guided 
and will continue to guide my country’s action at the 
United Nations. As a founding Member of the United 
Nations,  Luxembourg  has  based  its  foreign  policy  on 
active  participation  in  multilateral  cooperation.  That 
multilateralism is founded on respect for international 
law and cooperation among sovereign and equal States 
in  order  to  work  collectively  for  peace,  development 
and respect for human rights.
For  us,  the  United  Nations  is  at  the  heart  of 
multilateralism.  We  are  committed  to  making  the 
United Nations as effective as possible so that we can 
solve  together,  in  solidarity,  issues  that  far  exceed 
our capacities as States. We have the responsibility to 
overcome such issues for the sake of future generations. 
Commitment, solidarity and responsibility also define 
the  approach  that  should  guide  our  response  to  the 
challenges facing us on the eve of 2015.
14-54935
33/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
With  the  President’s  choice  of  the  theme  for  this 
sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  he  calls 
upon us to develop and deliver on a transformative post-
2015  development  agenda  and  to  ensure  its  effective 
implementation.  That  post-2015  development  agenda 
must be bold and ambitious if we are to live up to our 
collective  responsibility  to  eradicate  poverty  and  to 
promote sustainable development. It must build on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  must  go  further. 
The  agenda  must  be  holistic,  action-oriented  and 
universally applicable. It must benefit both developing 
and  developed  countries.  It  must  be  based  on  human 
rights. It must give the social sectors, health care and 
education  all  the  importance  that  they  deserve.  The 
issues  of  governance,  justice,  peace  and  security,  as 
well as the protection of the environment, sustainable 
consumption  and  production  patterns  and  sustained 
economic growth, must be part of that agenda.
Aware  of 
Luxembourg supports and welcomes the important 
work  accomplished  by  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Its  report  (A/67/941, 
annex) and the set of goals that it proposes are a useful 
basis for the negotiations that will culminate in a year’s 
time  in  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  and  a  new  model  for  sustainable  development 
that reconciles “the ambitions of humanity and the needs 
of the planet”, as Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said.
responsibilities, 
its 
my  country  has  a 
to 
development, motivated by a desire for solidarity with 
the poorest people. Since 2000, Luxembourg has been 
one of the five industrialized countries to allocate at least 
0.7 per cent of its gross national income to development 
cooperation.  In  2009,  our  development  assistance 
reached the level of 1 per cent of gross national income. 
The Government is committed to maintaining that high 
level despite a difficult budgetary position, which is no 
easier in our country than in others. Such aid can offer 
upcoming generations prospects and opportunities for 
the future and, we should realize, can therefore, I hope, 
prevent certain conflicts.
international 
long-standing  commitment 
The fight against climate change is an integral part of 
any global partnership for development. In that context, 
allow me to welcome the holding of the climate summit 
on  Tuesday.  That  summit  clearly  achieved  the  dual 
objective set by the Secretary-General: to demonstrate 
the essential political will to reach a global agreement 
in 2015 and to act as a catalyst for concrete action on 
the  ground  so  as  to  reduce  emissions  and  to  increase 
resilience. In the second half of 2015, my country will 
assume the presidency of the Council of the European 
Union (EU). We will spare no effort to ensure that we 
reach  an  international  climate  agreement  at  the  2015 
Paris climate summit that is applicable to all countries, 
with  the  objective  of  keeping  global  warming  below 
2°C.
With its European Union partners, Luxembourg has 
made  binding  commitments  to  reduce  its  greenhouse 
gas  emissions  and  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate 
change. Before the upcoming meetings, in accordance 
with  the  timetable  that  we  agreed  in  Warsaw,  the 
European  Union  will  present  additional  contributions 
to rise to the challenge.
We  are  also  making  commitments  at  the  national 
level. I would mention, for example, our support for the 
statement on carbon pricing, presented at the Climate 
Summit, as well as the new contribution of €5 million 
to  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  which  we  announced 
at  the  summit,  without  any  reduction  in  our  official 
development assistance.
There will be no development without security and 
no security without development. And both development 
and  security  also  depend  on  respect  for  human  rights 
and the rule of law. We all know Kofi Annan’s saying. 
Luxembourg  has  made  it  the  guiding  principle  of  its 
action  in  the  Security  Council  since  1  January  2013 
by  devoting  its  undivided  attention  to  the  root  causes 
of  conflict,  their  humanitarian  and  economic  impact 
and  human  rights,  in  particular  the  rights  of  children 
affected by conflict.
To  illustrate  that  approach,  I  will  talk  about 
the  conflict  in  Syria.  That  conflict,  which  has  been 
raging  for  three  and  a  half  years,  now  shocks  the 
human  conscience.  There  are  more  than  191,000 
people dead. There are 10.8 million Syrians in need of 
urgent humanitarian assistance, over half of whom are 
children. More than 4.5 million Syrians are trapped by 
the fighting in areas that are difficult for humanitarian 
actors to access. More than 3 million Syrians have been 
forced to leave their country, over 1 million of whom 
are refugees in Lebanon. Those figures rarely make the 
headlines now. However, behind those figures, there is  
so much suffering and so many shattered lives.
That  cannot  continue.  We  must  put  an  end  to  the 
indiscriminate  attacks  against  civilians,  schools  and 
hospitals,  the  bombardment  with  barrel  bombs,  the 
denial of humanitarian assistance and the use of famine 
34/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
as a weapon of war. At the initiative of Australia, Jordan 
and  Luxembourg,  the  Security  Council  unanimously 
adopted two resolutions on access for humanitarian aid 
to Syria (Security Council resolutions 2139 (2014) and 
2165 (2014)). I strongly hope that those resolutions will 
have a real and decisive impact on the ground.
However,  humanitarian  action  cannot  be  a 
substitute  for  political  action.  The  lasting  settlement 
of the Syrian conflict requires a political solution — a 
political transition that meets the legitimate aspirations 
of  the  Syrian  people,  in  accordance  with  the  Geneva 
communiqué of June 2012 (S/2012/522, annex).
Today,  we  cannot  procrastinate  in  the  face  of  the 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  committed 
by  terrorist  groups,  in  particular  the  Islamic  State  in 
Iraq and the Levant. That group is neither a State nor 
Islamic.  It  defiles  Islam  and  seeks  only  to  spread  its 
terror  regime  and  to  destabilize  Syria,  Iraq  and  the 
entire region.
My  country  fully  supports  the  measures  adopted 
against 
individuals  and  entities  associated  with 
Al-Qaida  to  cut  off  their  channels  of  financing,  to 
prevent radicalization and to stem the flow of foreign 
terrorist  fighters.  We  do  so  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 2178 (2014), which we adopted the 
day  before  yesterday  at  the  Security  Council  summit 
presided  over  by  the  United  States  President,  Barack 
Obama, in which I had the honour to particiapte.
Beyond the fight against terrorism, we must tackle 
the  root  causes  of  the  grave  crisis  in  Iraq.  In  that 
context,  we  welcome  the  formation  of  the  new  Iraqi 
Government of national unity, under the leadership of 
Prime  Minister  Haider  Al-Abadi.  We  encourage  him 
to follow an inclusive approach that respects all ethnic 
and  religious  segments  of  Iraqi  society  and  that  is 
responsive to the needs and aspirations of all. The Iraqi 
people must regain trust in their country’s democratic 
institutions.
For  the  third  time  in  six  years,  this  summer  we 
witnessed bloody fighting in the Gaza Strip. The cycle 
of  violence  must  stop.  The  actions  that  fuel  hatred 
and discord must cease. Israelis and Palestinians must 
finally  be  able  to  live  in  peace,  security  and  dignity. 
The  two-State  solution,  the  peaceful  coexistence  of 
two democratic States — Israel and Palestine — within 
secure  and  recognized  borders,  remains  the  only 
possible way forward in that regard. A political solution 
must be sought as soon as possible to avoid extremists 
from  all  sides  from  prevailing  and  to  avoid  measures 
being  taken  that  would  make  the  two-State  solution 
impossible.  With  its  partners  in  the  European  Union, 
Luxembourg  is  ready  to  contribute  to  a  global  and 
sustainable solution.
The  time  allotted  to  me  does  not  suffice  to  do 
justice  to  the  manifold  crises  that  we  face  today.  I 
would, however, like to say that they all bring one duty 
to  light,  namely,  to  protect  civilians.  That  duty  is  at 
the heart of the mandates entrusted to the stabilization 
and peacekeeping missions of the United Nations and 
regional organizations like the African Union in Mali, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, South 
Sudan and now in the Central African Republic. On the 
African continent, our credibility and our responsibility 
to protect are at stake. Twenty years after the Rwandan 
genocide, indifference is no longer an option.
I  should  now  like  to  say  a  word  about  my  own 
continent,  Europe.  The  crisis  in  Ukraine  has  step-by-
step turned into a conflict — one that, unfortunately, 
shows  that  the  times  when  we  thought  peace  on  the 
European continent had become self-evident are over. 
The  conflict  has  already  cost  the  lives  of  more  than 
3,000 people. It must end and it must end now. Dialogue 
and diplomacy are of the essence.
From Syria to the Central African Republic, from 
Iraq to South Sudan, the list of war crimes and crimes 
against humanity committed on a daily basis becomes 
longer  each  day.  The  perpetrators  of  those  crimes,  of 
grave violations and abuses of human rights, of violations 
of  international  law  and  international  humanitarian 
law  must  be  held  accountable  before  justice  for  their 
acts.  The  fight  against  impunity  must  cease  to  be  an 
abstract  objective  and  become  a  tangible  reality.  The 
International Criminal Court has an important role to 
play in that regard.
With regard to grave violations of international law 
and war crimes, I would like to draw attention to the 
violations  and  atrocities  committed  against  children. 
Children are often the first victims of armed conflicts: 
they  are  killed  and  maimed,  they  are  abducted  and 
recruited,  and  they  are  sexually  abused.  They  are 
deprived of their right to education and health care. They 
are cruelly denied access to humanitarian assistance.
As Chair of the Security Council Working Group on 
Children  and  Armed  Conflict,  Luxembourg  is  working 
in  a  determined  way  to  strengthen  and  to  implement 
fully the children and armed conflict agenda. We will 
14-54935
35/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
continue  to  do  so  beyond  our  tenure  on  the  Security 
Council. Children embody the hope and future of every 
society. All together, we must do everything we can to 
safeguard that hope and future from the horrors of war. 
We cannot acquiesce to sacrificing future generations.
The fight against sexual violence calls for the same 
commitment. Sexual violence in conflict spares no one. 
It affects adults and children, women and men. We must 
resolutely tackle this scourge.
The  prevention  of  conflict  is  a  core  purpose  of 
the  Organization.  Spotting  early-warning  signs  of  a 
conflict is of crucial importance if we want to take the 
most  effective  measures  at  the  right  time,  and  if  we 
want  to  prevent  a  situation  from  escalating  into  open 
conflict. We know that most conflicts are preceded by a 
significant deterioration in the human rights situation. 
It is on that basis that the Secretary-General launched 
the Rights Up Front initiative — rights before anything 
else. Its aim is to strengthen the capacity of the United 
Nations to act as a smoke detector before it is too late 
to prevent the fire from spreading or, to continue that 
metaphor, to alert the fire brigade before the fire gets 
out  of  control.  Luxembourg  welcomes  that  initiative. 
It is a forceful reminder of our collective obligation to 
protect and promote human rights. It rightly places the 
protection of human rights at the centre of the efforts 
undertaken by the United Nations to prevent conflicts.
Tackling  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  poverty, 
discrimination, the absence of the rule of law, to name 
just those few, is part of the same preventive approach.
However,  I  also  have  to  recall  that  in  certain 
countries, being different is not always accepted. The 
rights of minorities must be respected. It is unacceptable 
that to this day, a religion or a sexual orientation, for 
example, prevents a person from living freely in certain 
societies. Diversity is the richness of our society, it is 
not a crime.
As  I  address  the  Assembly,  there  are  numerous 
threats to peace and security we must face that require 
a holistic response. I have already addressed terrorism 
and our common struggle to eradicate that scourge. The 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction constitutes 
another  clear  threat.  The  joint  plan  of  action  agreed 
in  Geneva  on  24  November  2013  was  an  important 
milestone towards solving the Iranian nuclear issue. I 
would  like  to  reiterate  Luxembourg’s  full  support  for 
the efforts of the EU 3+3 to arrive at a comprehensive 
settlement that restores trust in the exclusively peaceful 
purpose of the Iranian nuclear programme. I urge Iran 
to engage fully and in good faith in order to allow those 
discussions  to  lead  to  the  expected  results  as  soon  as 
possible.
In Africa as well as in Latin America, small arms are 
the real weapons of mass destruction. The devastating 
consequences  of  the  unregulated  arms  trade  are  well 
documented.  I  am  therefore  particularly  pleased  that 
the Arms Trade Treaty, which was adopted last year by 
a very broad majority of the Assembly, will enter into 
force  on  25  December.  Luxembourg  was  honoured  to 
be among the first States to sign and ratify it. It is our 
fervent hope that we will be able to achieve our shared 
goal of making it a universal treaty.
Also  along  the  lines  of  threats  to  international 
peace and security, allow me to touch upon the serious 
crisis  caused  by  the  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa. 
This  is  not  a  simple  humanitarian  emergency,  far 
from  it.  It  is  a  multidimensional  crisis  that  threatens 
the  institutions,  societies  and  economies  of  the  three 
countries  affected  by  the  outbreak  —  and  the  region 
as  a  whole.  It  calls  for  mobilization  at  every  level: 
national,  regional  and  global.  The  Secretary-General 
fully  appreciates  the  magnitude  of  the  challenge,  and 
we wholeheartedly support the United Nations Mission 
for  Ebola  Emergency  Response.  There  is  no  time  to 
lose.  Beyond  the  contributions  we  have  already  made 
to  the  World  Health  Organization,  the  World  Food 
Programme,  Doctors  Without  Borders  and  the  Red 
Cross, we stand ready to do more, in close consultation 
with the countries of West Africa, many of which are 
Luxembourg’s  partners,  as  well  as  with  the  United 
Nations and civil society organizations on the ground.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  return  to  the  three 
keywords 
that  guide  our  efforts:  commitment, 
solidarity, responsibility. It was our eagerness to work 
for strong and effective multilateralism and our resolve 
to serve the United Nations that motivated Luxembourg 
to  aspire  to  become  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  for  the  first  time  in  its  history, 
for  the  2013-2014  term.  During  the  past  20  months, 
Luxembourg has worked hard every day to show that it 
is up to that responsibility. It has worked hard to show 
that it is worthy of the honour bestowed upon it by the 
General Assembly when it was elected to the Security 
Council. We carry out our mandate in the name of all 
States Members of the United Nations, and we are quite 
aware of that. Today, I would like to take this opportunity 
to heartily thank the Assembly, in my personal capacity 
36/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
and in the name of the Government of Luxembourg, for 
the trust placed in us. The Aseembly can rest assured 
that  we  will  continue  to  serve  the  United  Nations  to 
uphold our common values, the values of humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
of State, Minister for Communications and the Media 
and  Minister  of  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State, Minister for Communications and the Media 
and  Minister  of  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, Prime 
Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz 
Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Pakistan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Sharif  (Pakistan):  I  congratulate  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa on his election as the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  assure  him  that 
his  priorities  —  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly,  sustainable  development,  climate  change 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes — are also our 
priorities. Our delegation will extend its full support to 
him in order to achieve those objectives.
I also pay tribute to Mr. John Ashe for his effective 
leadership  of  the  General  Assembly  during  its  past 
session.  We  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts 
to  find  diplomatic  solutions  to  complex  challenges  to 
international  peace  and  security.  We  appreciate  his 
leadership in hosting the climate summit.
awareness  to  commitments  to  actions  on  climate 
change,  which  is  wreaking  havoc  with  economies, 
particularly in developing countries.
This is a defining moment for the United Nations 
as  it  embarks  upon  the  task  of  transforming  the  lives 
of  billions  of  people  by  investing  in  sustainable 
development  in  the  next  15  years.  We  are  setting 
ourselves  the  vital  target  of  eradicating  poverty  by 
2030. To do that, we need to go beyond the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). We need a new approach 
to eliminate conflict and violence and reduce inequality 
within and among nations. Only then will we be able 
to  ensure  healthy  lives,  empower  women  and  girls, 
improve  the  quality  of  education,  create  jobs  and 
guarantee the supply of affordable energy.
The time is ripe for such ambition and action. The 
sustainable  development  goals  crafted  so  far  must 
be  woven  into  an  overarching  framework.  We  must 
prioritize them. First things should come first. Peace, 
stability  and  inclusive  economic  growth  —  all  come 
first.
At the national level, we have launched our Vision 
2025,  which  puts  people  first.  It  is  inspired  by  our 
Founding  Father,  Quaid-e-Azam  Muhammad  Ali 
Jinnah, whose vision of a welfare State is based on the 
principles of justice, equity and responsibility.
In the coming decade, we will develop human and 
social capital through investment in education, health 
and gender parity; stimulate sustained economic growth; 
prioritize energy, water and food security; modernize 
the  public  sector  and  encourage  private-sector-led 
entrepreneurship.  We  have  determined  that  regional 
peace  and  security,  political  stability  in  the  country, 
the rule of law and social justice are absolutely crucial 
for  the  realization  of  those  goals.  Above  all,  we  will 
continue  to  work  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights.
Energy is key to economic development. Pakistan 
co-chairs  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative.  The 
objectives of the initiative are also our national goals.
Extreme  weather  patterns  are  disrupting  world 
economies.  In  Pakistan  we  have  directly  experienced 
such  a  calamity  just  recently.  The  monsoon  floods 
in  Pakistan  have  had  a  devastating  impact.  We  are 
mobilizing all our resources and ingenuity to provide 
relief  and 
international 
community  should  intensify  its  efforts  to  move  from 
to  ensure  recovery.  The 
It is my Government’s aspiration and endeavour to 
build  a  peaceful  neighbourhood  by  pursuing  a  policy 
of constructive engagement. In South Asia, our people 
have  missed  opportunities  for  prosperity  because  of 
unresolved conflicts. We have a choice today: continue 
with the status quo or seize the moment to resolve all 
outstanding issues and free up our shared energies for 
14-54935
37/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
cooperation. To take this course of high statesmanship, 
we  need  more,  not  less,  dialogue  and  diplomacy.  We 
need  to  respect  each  other’s  rights  and  sensibilities. 
We must have relationships based on equality, mutual 
respect and transparency.
confront  common  challenges,  which  call  for  greater 
cooperation and understanding. In the past year and a 
half, we have consciously reached out to Afghanistan to 
address difficult issues and build on convergences. We 
have made headway in that effort.
We  were  disappointed  at  the  cancellation  of  the 
Foreign  Secretary-level  talks  by  India.  The  world 
community,  too,  rightly  saw  it  as  another  missed 
opportunity. Pakistan is convinced that we must remain 
engaged  in  the  dialogue  process  for  settling  disputes 
and building economic and trade relations. Let us not 
ignore the dividends of peace.
More  than  six  decades  ago,  the  United  Nations 
adopted  resolutions  to  hold  a  plebiscite  in  Jammu 
and  Kashmir.  The  people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  are 
still  waiting  for  the  fulfilment  of  that  promise.  Many 
generations  of  Kashmiris  have  lived  their  lives  under 
occupation, accompanied by violence and abuse of their 
fundamental  rights.  Kashmiri  women  in  particular 
have  suffered  immensely.  For  decades,  attempts  have 
been  made,  both  under  United  Nations  auspices  and 
bilaterally  in  the  spirit  of  the  Lahore  Declaration, 
to  resolve  the  dispute.  The  core  issue  of  Jammu  and 
Kashmir has to be resolved. It is the responsibility of 
the international community. We cannot draw a veil on 
the issue of Kashmir, until it is addressed in accordance 
with the wishes of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. 
Pakistan is ready to work for a resolution of the issue 
through negotiations. Our support and advocacy for the 
right to self-determination of the people of Jammu and 
Kashmir  is  our  historic  commitment  and  a  duty  as  a 
party to the Kashmir dispute.
Afghanistan is going through momentous security, 
political and economic transitions. As always, Pakistan 
stands in solidarity with the fraternal Afghan people. 
I  congratulate  the  people  of  Afghanistan  on  the 
successful  completion  of  the  electoral  process.  We 
extend  our  warm  felicitations  and  good  wishes  to  the 
new Afghan leadership. It is our earnest hope that those 
landmark  processes  will  culminate  in  the  emergence 
of  a  stronger,  more  stable  and  unified  Afghanistan. 
We also hope that the process of inclusive Afghan-led 
and  Afghan-owned  reconciliation  will  move  forward, 
thereby contributing to greater harmony, stability and 
prosperity in Afghanistan.
Pakistan  remains  committed  to  forging  a  deeper 
bilateral relationship with Afghanistan on the basis of 
equal security and shared prosperity. Our two nations 
Pakistan  has  launched  a  massive  operation  to 
eliminate terrorism. Complementary counter-terrorism 
measures on the Afghan side of the border are essential 
to achieve optimal results.
This  past  summer,  the  people  of  Gaza  were 
subjected to mass atrocities by Israel. We condemned 
the  indiscriminate  killings  of  civilians  —  which 
amounted to genocide. From this rostrum, I once again 
convey  Pakistan’s  condolences  and  sympathies  to  the 
people of Palestine over their continuing plight.
We welcome the ceasefire between Gaza and Israel, 
but  the  next  steps  must  also  be  taken.  The  blockade 
of  Gaza  must  be  lifted,  Palestinian  prisoners  must  be 
freed and illegal settlements must be halted. The United 
Nations should facilitate a just and lasting solution to 
the  Palestinian  issue,  based  on  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions.
We call on all parties in Syria to renounce military 
and militant means and to hold dialogue to restore peace 
and  stability  in  their  historic  land.  The  emergence  of 
new  militant  entities  in  the  Middle  East  once  again 
illustrates  that  terrorism  is  a  global  threat.  This 
primitive force in Iraq and Syria is an aberration, which 
has  the  sanction  of  no  religion.  It  must  be  countered 
with unified and resolute will.
We  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations. We are fighting the terrorism that has 
been planted on Pakistan’s soil. Our valiant soldiers are 
laying  down  their  lives  to  take  out  terrorists  and  tear 
down their evil networks. The entire nation is behind 
them.
In the past 13 years, as a front-line State, we have 
made enormous sacrifices in blood and resources. Tens 
of thousands of civilians have been killed or injured. Our 
economy has also lost hundreds of billions of dollars in 
direct  costs  and  denied  investment  opportunities.  Yet 
in that fight, each time a soldier falls, another takes his 
place — proudly. It is the resolve of our nation to fight 
this scourge to the finish.
At  the  same  time,  we  have  made  a  plan  of  action 
for  the  relief  and  rehabilitation  of  nearly  1  million 
internally dislocated persons. That includes a strategy 
38/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
to prevent the return and resurgence of militancy and to 
create a safe environment for local people.
Pakistan’s  strong  commitment  to  peacekeeping 
is  rooted  in  our  foreign  policy  and  in  our  belief  that 
every  nation  should  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Inspired by that ideal, 
Pakistan  has  maintained  high  levels  of  participation 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  has  become  the 
largest troop-contributing country. We are contributing 
more than 1,100 troops to the Central African Republic 
operation, despite the dire situation there.
As  a 
responsible  nuclear-weapon  State,  we 
will  continue  to  support  the  objectives  of  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation and pursue a policy 
of nuclear restraint and credible minimum deterrence. 
Pakistan  is  not  participating  in  any  arms  race  in  the 
region.  Yet  we  cannot  be  oblivious  to  the  emerging 
security scenarios and buildup of armaments. We, too, 
have  the  obligation  to  maintain  a  robust  and  reliable 
deterrence.
I would like to reiterate the need for an interlinked 
mechanism for pursuing nuclear restraint, conventional 
equilibrium and conflict resolution. To promote stability, 
we  are  prepared  to  explore  new  confidence-building 
measures.
Pakistan  has  maintained  the  highest  standards 
of  nuclear  safety  and  security.  At  the  last  summit  at 
The  Hague  that  I  attended,  Pakistan’s  recent  nuclear 
measures,  especially  the  establishment  of  a  centre  of 
excellence, were appreciated.
Pakistan 
is  a  State  with  advanced  nuclear 
technology  and  more  than  40  years  of  experience. 
Pakistan  is  a  mainstream  partner  in  the  international 
non-proliferation regime. Pakistan also has a stringent 
national export-control system that is fully harmonized 
with  international  export-control  regimes.  Though  a 
non-member, we are abiding by their guidelines.
Pakistan ought to be a part of those export-control 
regimes,  especially  the  Nuclear  Suppliers  Group. 
Pakistan also qualifies for full access to civil nuclear 
technology to overcome its energy shortages and spur 
economic growth.
The ongoing reform of the United Nations must be 
comprehensive.  We  support  a  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  that  reflects  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States — small, medium-sized and large — and not the 
ambitions of a few. There should be no new permanent 
seats  in  the  Council.  That  would  be  contrary  to  the 
democratic character of this world body. We want the 
Council  to  become  more  representative,  equitable, 
accountable and transparent.
We meet here today on the cusp of a new era for the 
international community. Never before has the United 
Nations  embraced  such  lofty  goals  to  banish  poverty, 
stimulate  development,  protect  the  environment  and 
foster peace, as it will during this session. The future 
of  our  planet  hinges  on  our  decisions.  Let  us  deliver 
them with full responsibility and wisdom. Pakistan will 
assist the Assembly and the United Nations as a whole 
to make the world a better place for all humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Muscat,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
like  first 
Mr.  Muscat  (Malta):  I  would 
to 
congratulate Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa on his election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session. I also wish to express my appreciation for the 
able manner in which the outgoing President presided 
over the Assembly.
Allow me also to pay tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his tireless commitment in the service 
of peace. I also thank the men and women serving the 
United Nations in the field. They do so often at great 
personal risk, and their courage and determination is a 
source of inspiration for the Organization.
It  was  50  years  ago  that  Malta  became  an 
independent  State.  That  was  the  year  when  Nelson 
14-54935
39/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
Mandela was sentenced to life imprisonment in South 
Africa,  and  when  Martin  Luther  King  received  the 
Nobel Peace Prize. For a small, nascent State such as 
Malta,  it  was  a  year  of  promise  and  new  beginnings 
as it took its place among the Members of the United 
Nations.  It  is  with  a  deep  sense  of  pride  that  I  stand 
before members here today to note the role our country 
has played over the past 50 years to uphold the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Time  and  again,  this  family  of  nations  has  found 
a  trusted  and  reliable  partner  in  my  country,  willing 
to contribute, in ways large and small, to the cause of 
international  peace  and  security.  I  shall  mention  just 
two.  The  first  is  Malta’s  association  with  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  —  a  widely  acknowledged  role,  as  we  were 
instrumental  in  the  launching  of  the  international 
process that would eventually lead to the 1982 United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The second 
example,  which  came  shortly  after  that,  in  1988,  is 
our being among the first Member States to highlight 
the  risks  of  climate  change  to  the  global  community 
within the forum of the United Nations. An almost alien 
concept at the time, today climate change is one of the 
main items on the global agenda. I pay tribute to Arvid 
Pardo and former President Ċensu Tabone, who piloted 
those events. Evidently, our size did not determine our 
ambitions then. Neither will it determine them now.
We  live  in  an  increasingly  uncertain  world  —  a 
world where the power balances that we have known in 
recent decades have started to shift. What made sense 
in  the  past  may  not  make  sense  in  the  future  —  not 
too distant a future, but the future that we can already 
see forming before our own eyes. If the Assembly will 
allow me, I wish to share some thoughts by presenting 
five challenges — five of the many that I feel we, the 
United Nations, need to face up to now.
Undoubtedly,  the  first  challenge  is  the  conflict 
in  the  Middle  East.  We  need  a  return  to  meaningful 
negotiations,  and  I  stress 
the  word  meaningful. 
The  ongoing  tit-for-tat,  the  culture  of  hatred  and 
intolerance, 
the  self-righteous  proclamations  and 
the  recriminations  are  leaving  nothing  but  death  and 
destruction.  If  we  build  walls  around  people,  it  is  no 
wonder that they will dig tunnels to escape. The current 
frame of mind will lead nowhere. Too many innocent 
civilians  have  died,  too  many  children  have  been 
buried.  We  need  statesmanship  from  the  politicians 
on  both  sides  to  resolve  the  conflict.  Risk-takers  and 
courageous  negotiators  must  be  willing  to  make  the 
right choices — not the most convenient choices, and 
not  the  most  popular,  perhaps,  but  the  most  enduring 
ones — that will bring about change leading to peace.
Our  second  challenge  must  be  putting  an  end  to 
the  ghastly  war  in  Syria,  which  is  fast  becoming  a 
forgotten  conflict  of  major  proportions.  Like  many 
other countries here, last year my country called for a 
stop to the atrocities (see A/68/PV.12). Are we simply 
going to repeat that call this year as well? Let us stop 
this humanitarian disaster, which, as we know, is now 
morphing into the new threats we have heard so much 
about.  The  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution 
2165 (2014) demonstrated that we can act together, so 
let us act. We call on the Security Council to assume its 
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations 
and to act urgently and decisively to bring about an end 
to the bloodshed.
That  brings  me  to  the  third  challenge.  As  if  we 
have not yet learned the lessons from Syria, or realized 
what  sectarian  divisions  can  lead  to,  we  are  allowing 
the  problems  in  Libya  to  continue  almost  unabated. 
We are fast witnessing a descent into another forgotten 
conflict. We need to help the Libyan people take their 
country forward. There is a bright future for Liby, but 
Libyans themselves need to find the hope necessary to 
realize it. They can begin to do so only with the help 
of  the  international  community.  The  United  Nations 
can and must provide capacity-building and security to 
bring about stability and prosperity.
Of course, we are heartened to see the constructive 
role already being played by the United Nations Support 
Mission  in  Libya.  Yet  immense  challenges  remain,  in 
particular  in  restoring  the  country’s  security  and  law 
and order. The divisions are rooted in many causes, but 
they can be overcome. This situation cannot be allowed 
to  continue  further.  Its  repercussions  are  severe  not 
just  for  the  Libyans  themselves  or  for  the  country’s 
immediate  neighbours,  such  as  ourselves,  but  further 
afield.  The  international  community  cannot  risk  a 
takeover by extremists of that crucial country.
Together with our international partners, especially 
our colleagues in the European Union, Malta continues 
to  actively  support  the  efforts  of  the  Libyan  people 
to  move  forward.  We  are  providing  all  the  assistance 
within  our  means  to  aid  the  wounded.  We  will  stand 
for dialogue and reconciliation in Libya. We will stand 
for  peace  and  resolution.  We  will  continue  to  draw 
attention  to  this  festering  wound.  Our  Libyan  friends 
deserve that. Disarmament and national reconciliation 
40/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
are  the  prerequisites  for  Libya  to  move  forward.  The 
United  Nations  must  be  ready  to  answer  the  calls  for 
action from the Libyan people themselves.
If the Assembly will allow, I will directly address 
our friends in Libya in their own language, which is so 
similar to my own.
(spoke in Arabic)
The  families  and  the  children  of  Libya  deserve  a 
true  future.  Freedom  and  justice  for  all  Libyans  can 
be  achieved  only  if  differences  are  resolved  through 
dialogue and compromise.
(spoke in English)
Please allow me now to move to the fourth challenge 
facing the world today, namely, the spread of extremism 
and intolerance.
We  are  living  through  a  period  of  transnational 
allegiances in which we are seeing the globalization of 
hatred — one during which extremists are increasingly 
interconnected through networks and inventions whose 
main purpose should be progress and education. This is 
a  time  when  disenchanted  youths  are  radicalized  into 
movements that know no limits. We need to look beyond 
the borders of our nation States and work together, if we 
are to face up to the threats posed by extremists.
Nobody  is  immune  from  what  is  undoubtedly  the 
biggest threat to world stability and peace. Just as the 
horrendous carnage of two world wars led to a shift in 
our  thinking,  the  reality  we  are  living  in  now  needs 
to force another shift. We have to spread a culture of 
mutual understanding and humanity — not because it 
serves  us,  but  because  it  serves  our  peoples  and  will 
serve our future as a global community.
Clearly, the area of the world from the Mediterranean 
to  the  Middle  East,  and  beyond,  demands  our  utmost 
attention. People are being pushed to the brink. They 
are  resorting  to  increasingly  desperate  measures. 
Men,  women  and  children  are  risking  their  lives  to 
cross  conflict-ridden  zones  and  hostile  deserts.  They 
are  taking  to  the  seas  without  realizing  the  dangers 
that await them. As I also did last year, I reiterate that 
more attention must be focused on the plight of illegal 
immigrants in the Mediterranean, which I believe is the 
fifth challenge we face.
With all our limitations, Malta is doing its utmost 
to  daily  save  lives  —  as  our  neighbour  and  friend 
Italy  is  also  doing.  Again  I  call  on  the  Assembly  and 
the  international  community  to  help  to  stop  the  great 
human tragedies that come with risky crossings across 
the  Mediterranean.  The  States  receiving  the  waves  of 
migrants  cannot  stand  up  to  the  challenge  alone:  no 
country  in  the  world  can  solve  the  problem  of  illegal 
immigration  alone.  Just  last  week  we  witnessed  in 
our own seas yet another tragedy, which the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
described as mass murder.
Closer cooperation among the countries of origin, 
transit  and  destination  is  needed.  The  United  Nations 
and  its  agencies  are  already  helping,  but  they  must 
continue  to  help  in  addressing  the  causes.  Better 
governance,  better  resources  and  better  development 
policies  are  needed.  We  need  better  enforcement 
mechanisms and stronger penalties to stop and punish 
the criminals — the human traffickers. We need better 
implementation of internationally agreed commitments. 
We need all of that and more, and we need to remember 
to  keep  in  mind  the  well-being  of  the  human  beings, 
the families and children who are the victims of all that 
tragedy.
As a Mediterranean country, Malta cannot but call 
for  the  world’s  attention  to  those  challenges,  which 
are  threatening  not  only  the  security  of  the  region 
but also its development and growth. Such threats are 
preventing the Mediterranean Sea Basin from reaching 
its full potential, which is just waiting to be unleashed 
if only weapons were traded for books and hatred for 
education.  I  reiterate  my  strong  conviction  that  the 
Mediterranean Basin needs to be given our immediate 
attention  in  order  to  once  again  become  the  home  of 
great civilizations that it is and a cross-cultural haven 
where women and men of different beliefs and traditions 
work, trade and mingle in tolerance and tranquillity.
levels  of 
It has always been our belief that there cannot be 
peace  in  Europe  without  peace  in  the  Mediterranean. 
Today’s  unprecedented 
interconnectivity 
lead  us  to  believe  that  peace  in  the  Mediterranean  is 
a prerequisite for global stability. Malta will continue 
to  serve  as  a  voice  of  reason,  while  striving  to  unite 
the Mediterranean. Our only weapon is our historical 
and natural vocation for peace. Our resolve grows only 
stronger in such testing times.
The challenges that we face cannot stop us in our 
tracks.  We  can  address  them  if  we  truly  believe  in 
acting as the United Nations. A year from now, we will 
analyse  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  will, 
hopefully, agree on sustainable development goals for 
14-54935
41/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
the twenty-first century. With an effective development 
agenda,  we  can  address  the  causes  of  conflict  in  a 
sustainable manner and can overcome the poverty that 
contributes  to  illegal  migration.  But  we  need  to  be 
ambitious.
Over the past 50 years, my country has shown that 
it  has  been  and  can  be  ambitious  in  favour  of  peace, 
progress  and  prosperity.  It  has  promoted  and  will 
continue  to  promote  the  broadest  possible  dialogue 
among  the  countries  of  our  region.  I  take  pride  in 
noting  that  only  a  few  months  ago,  Malta,  together 
with  Algeria,  France,  Italy,  Jordan,  Morocco,  the 
Netherlands,  Nigeria,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  the  United 
Kingdom  and  the  United  States,  jointly  launched  the 
International  Institute  for  Justice  and  Rule  of  Law, 
hosted  by  my  country.  The  Institute  will  collaborate 
with  the  United  Nations  and  other  international  and 
non-governmental  organizations  to  provide  training 
to  lawmakers,  police,  prosecutors,  judges  and  prison 
officials to deal with terrorism and transnational crime, 
with  a  general  emphasis  on  the  rule  of  law.  We  hope 
that such work will eventually serve as a best practice 
for the benefit of the wider global community.
We 
are 
also 
fully 
engaged  within 
the 
Commonwealth,  which  brings  together  a  third  of  the 
world population, in order to help achieve convergence 
on some of the challenges that lie ahead, including the 
sustainable development goals and climate change. The 
Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  Meeting  that 
will take place in Malta next year will serve as an ideal 
platform  for  the  discussion  of  such  issues,  especially 
ahead of the Paris summit on climate change. Those are 
some of the ways in which a small country in Europe 
at the centre of the Mediterranean, such as Malta, will 
continue  to  contribute  to  the  fostering  of  peace  and 
security in our region and in the world.
Fifty  years  may  seem  like  a  long  time,  but  I  can 
affirm that 50 years from now my country will remain 
steadfast in its ambitions and in our determination in 
favour  of  peace  and  prosperity.  Malta  will  remain  a 
proud Member of the United Nations and a beacon of 
stability in the Mediterranean.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Malta for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Tammam Salam, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tammam  Salam, 
President of the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese 
Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Salam (Lebanon) (spoke in Arabic): Allow me 
first  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth  session.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Mr.  John 
Ashe for his work during his presidency of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. Our appreciation 
also  goes  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
annual report on the work of the Organization (A/69/1).
We  meet  today  on  the  eve  of  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, to 
which my country had the honour to contribute. That 
milestone reminds us of the need to draw lessons and 
explore the best ways to put an end to war and violence 
and to mobilize international efforts to combat terrorism 
and terrorists.
I  wish  to  convey  the  concerns  of  my  country, 
Lebanon,  which  is  at  the  crossroads  of  a  turbulent 
region. Today Lebanon is the target of a fierce terrorist 
onslaught being perpetrated by obscurantist and criminal 
groups. They have attacked many parts of Lebanon and 
caused  the  loss  of  military  and  civilian  lives,  as  well 
as considerable material damage. Last month, terrorists 
kidnapped a number of soldiers and security officers. 
They  took  them  hostage  in  order  to  bring  pressure  to 
bear on and to blackmail the Lebanese authorities. They 
brutally  executed  three  of  the  detainees.  Such  crimes 
have  impeded  the  ongoing  indirect  negotiations  that 
my Government was conducting with the assistance of 
friendly countries to secure the release of the soldiers. 
I  would  like  to  underscore  that  compromise  on  our 
firm beliefs is not an option. We remain focused on the 
release of our soldiers, while preserving the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and security of our country.
42/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
In combating terrorism, the Lebanese people stand 
united with its armed forces, which represent the main 
pillar  on  which  we  depend  to  safeguard  our  national 
sovereignty,  security  and  peace.  Our  Government 
continues to rally the necessary support for its forces 
to be able to fulfil their duty. In that regard, Lebanon 
values the generous donation of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia  to  support  our  armed  forces.  We  also  pay 
tribute to the initiative of the Secretary-General, who 
launched the International Support Group for Lebanon 
last September here in New York city. We express our 
satisfaction  and  reassurance  over  the  outcomes  of  the 
meetings held by the Support Group this year in Paris 
and Rome.
The  current  international  mobilization  against 
terror reflects the international community’s awareness 
of  the  alarming  situation  in  our  region  and  the  need 
to  extinguish  the  flames  of  violence  and  prevent  the 
spread  of  such  attacks.  Lebanon  underscores  the 
need  for  regional  and  international  cooperation  to 
fight  terrorism.  We  welcome  the  Security  Council 
resolutions on the subject, in particular resolutions 2170 
(2014)  and  2178  (2014).  Lebanon  calls  on  its  brothers 
and friends around the world to safeguard and protect it 
from regional power struggles.
Our fight against terrorism is not new. For years, 
Lebanon has suffered under the threat posed by political 
crimes,  which  have  targeted  many  of  its  leaders,  in 
particular  former  Prime  Minister  Rafik  Hariri,  and 
prominent media figures and intellectuals. We continue 
to follow the work of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon. 
We  look  forward  to  the  establishment  of  the  truth  in 
order  to  put  an  end  to  impunity,  enable  justice  to  be 
served and deter criminals.
The events unfolding in vast areas of Syria and Iraq 
constitute  human  crimes  that  cannot  be  understood 
or  accepted  by  any  intellect  or  faith.  Perpetrated  in 
the name of Islam, such crimes have cost the lives of 
tens of thousands of Muslim civilians and have caused 
unprecedented waves of displaced people. In addition, 
those crimes have destabilized national entities, divided 
societies and destroyed human and material resources. 
That  terrorist  onslaught  targets  religious  groups 
that  since  time  immemorial  have  been  an  essential 
component  of  the  social  fabric  of  the  region  and  a 
fundamental  part  of  the  social  and  cultural  diversity 
that has long characterized the eastern Mediterranean. 
In the past few months, the entire world has witnessed 
attacks  against  Christians  and  Yazidis  in  Iraq,  their 
forced expulsion and the destruction of their property 
and  holy  sites.  Lebanon  considers  attacks  against 
religions,  their  followers  and  sacred  places  to  be  an 
offence  against  human  dignity  and  a  violation  of  the 
freedom  of  religious  belief  and  practice  enshrined  in 
the Charter of the United Nations and the International 
Bill of Human Rights, respect for which is guaranteed 
by our Lebanese Constitution.
Lebanon  is  proud  to  be  the  only  country  in  the 
Arab  and  Islamic  worlds  where  the  President  of  the 
Republic is a Christian citizen. That confirms that our 
country, despite its political crises, has been a paragon 
of diversity in the Middle East, an exceptional example 
of  coexistence  and  interaction  among  followers  of 
different religions and sects and a model totally opposed 
to the notion of a racist State. I take this opportunity 
to reiterate before the General Assembly the Lebanese 
Government’s call for the election of a new Christian 
President of the Republic as soon as possible.
The  painful  and  worrisome  war  in  Syria,  which 
has  continued  for  more  than  four  years,  has  driven 
nearly  1.5  million  displaced  Syrians  to  Lebanon  —  a 
number that is equivalent to one-third of the Lebanese 
population. In order to fully understand the dimensions 
of that situation, one would have to imagine 100 million 
people  flooding  into  the  United  States  of  America 
and spreading out randomly through its cities, towns, 
schools  and  parks,  with  their  related  urgent  needs 
and requirements, posing an unbearable burden at the 
economic,  humanitarian,  social,  educational,  health 
and security levels.
That  huge  number  of  displaced  people  weighs 
heavily on the Lebanese infrastructure, which already 
has structural problems. It puts pressure on the national 
economy,  where  growth  has  dropped  to  almost  0  per 
cent owing to the regional situation, which represents 
a loss of $7.5 billion for Lebanon, according to World 
Bank  estimates.  This  reality  constitutes  a  national 
disaster for us. The problem of the displaced Syrians, 
with  all  its  serious  economic,  social  and  security 
implications,  is  not  —  and  should  not  be  —  a  purely 
Lebanese problem. It is a major regional crisis that we 
put  before  the  international  community,  which  must 
share  that  enormous  burden  with  Lebanon.  Such  a 
burden cannot be borne by any country alone, no matter 
how large.
Lebanon  reiterates  its  concern  for  the  unity, 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Syria.  In  our  Government  policy  statement,  we  have 
14-54935
43/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  the  policy  of  keeping 
our  distance  in  order  to  protect  ourselves  from  the 
repercussions of the crisis in the neighbouring country.
On the eighth anniversary of the adoption of Security 
Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  Lebanon  asserts  its 
commitment  to  implementing  all  of  the  resolution’s 
provisions. We believe that it will strengthen stability 
and  security  in  southern  Lebanon  and  contribute  to 
extending the State’s authority over its entire territory. 
We  renew  our  appeal  to  the  international  community 
to  compel  Israel  to  fulfil  all  its  obligations  in  that 
regard, to stop violating Lebanese sovereignty from the 
land,  the  sea  and  the  air  and  to  fully  cooperate  with 
the United Nations peacekeeping forces of the United 
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in order to 
demarcate what is left of the Blue Line and immediately 
withdraw  from  the  area  north  of  Ghajar,  the  Sheba’a 
Farms and the Kfar Shouba Hills.
We also wish to reaffirm Lebanon’s full rights to its 
territorial waters and the natural oil and gas resources 
within  its  exclusive  economic  zone.  Lebanon  cannot 
fail to acknowledge the role of UNIFIL and the ongoing 
cooperation  and  coordination  between  UNIFIL  and 
the  Lebanese  army.  Lebanon  would  like  to  thank  all 
nations that contribute to the Force, the Force leaders 
and  the  members  of  the  Force  for  their  dedication  in 
the service of the stability and security of civilians in 
southern Lebanon.
Last month, the Gaza Strip was subjected to a new 
Israeli aggression, which killed hundreds of civilians, 
displaced  more  than  a  quarter  of  the  population  and 
destroyed homes, hospitals and infrastructure. Lebanon, 
which has paid dearly as a result of the repeated Israeli 
attacks, calls for legal accountability for the war crimes 
committed  by  Israel  and  for  that  country  to  be  held 
accountable for its actions in order to prevent impunity.
Lebanon  believes  that  Israel  is  responsible  for 
frustrating  all  efforts  to  reach  a  peaceful  settlement 
based  on  the  two-State  solution.  It  stresses  the  need 
for  a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
conflict in the Middle East, based on Security Council 
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the Madrid terms 
of  reference  for  peace  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative, 
adopted at the Beirut summit in 2002.
Today,  the  Levant  seems  to  be  the  stage  for 
dark  and  arbitrary  tragedies,  where  the  most  recent 
manifestations of human savagery are being played out. 
Today,  the  Levant  seems  to  be  hostage  to  ignorance, 
extremism  and  obscurantism,  plunged  into  a  hatred 
arising from a distant past and guided by a fanaticism 
and instincts that yield only bloodshed. However, that 
troubled area was, is and will be home to many people 
who,  like  all  other  human  beings,  have  land,  homes, 
tales, dreams and a history. They are individuals who 
are eager to live as free and equal citizens in free and 
stable  countries.  They  have  sons  and  daughters  who 
seek better opportunities for engagement in the world 
and a better place to live.
Humankind  owes  a  debt  to  our  Levant.  We  gave 
humankind  enlightenment  when  darkness,  extremism 
and  ignorance  were  crippling  the  other  side  of  the 
world.  We  still  have  much  to  offer  and  to  add  to  the 
tremendous  development  of  human  progress  and 
creativity.  The  world  must  stop  counting  our  dead.  It 
must meet its obligation and seek to establish peace in 
that tormented part of the world — a peace that is based 
on  law,  justice,  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  nations 
and  the  protection  of  their  security  and  territorial 
integrity,  the  safeguarding    of  the  fundamental  rights 
of individuals and groups, including their right to enjoy 
their wealth, and the protection of religious and ethnic 
diversity.
We,  the  Lebanese  people,  both  at  home  and  in 
every corner of the world, look to the United Nations 
for assistance. At the same time, we are determined to 
overcome the current crisis, as we have done so many 
times before. We are confident that, together, we will 
not  allow  any  person,  any  circumstance  or  any  party 
to  extinguish  the  beacons  of  freedom,  democracy, 
diversity,  pluralism,  knowledge  and  human  rights  in 
Lebanon.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 
Address by Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji 
Abdul Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Malaysia
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
44/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin 
Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak,  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Razak  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  begin 
by  congratulating  the  President  on  his  election.  His 
wisdom and experience will stand him in good stead as 
he guides the General Assembly.
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  health  workers 
who are fighting Ebola in West Africa. Malaysia was 
able to contribute more than 20 million rubber gloves 
to help the doctors and nurses who are working to stop 
the outbreak. Our prayers are with them.
I  also  wish  to  thank  all  those  who  came  to 
Malaysia’s  aid  in  this  difficult  year.  Flights  MH-370 
and MH-17 were tragedies that will stay with us forever. 
As  we  mourn  the  loss  of  life,  we  take  heart  from  the 
compassion  shown  by  our  friends.  Their  support  will 
not be forgotten. We thank our friends and allies who 
are  giving  their  time  and  their  resources  to  help  find 
Flight MH-370. Men and women continue to risk their 
lives searching the deepest oceans. We owe them our 
gratitude and our commitment. We will not give up the 
search. We are also grateful to our international partners 
that are working together to investigate the loss of Flight 
MH-17. Malaysia will continue to seek justice for those 
who died. We urge all parties to continue to cooperate 
with  the  investigation.  We  also  hope  that  those  two 
tragedies will change the global aviation system for the 
better and that nations will unite behind new standards 
for aircraft tracking and overflying conflict zones.
Four years ago, I stood before the General Assembly 
and  called  for  a  global  movement  of  moderates  to 
counter  extremism  (see  A/65/PV.19).  Last  year,  I 
spoke  of  the  conflict  between  Sunni  and  Shia  that  is 
tearing the Muslim world apart (see A/68/PV.18). Now 
those  two  forces  —  violent  extremism  and  religious 
intolerance — have joined hands beneath a black flag. 
Two countries fractured by war face a new threat — a 
self-declared  Islamic  State.  Its  victims  are  Sunni  and 
Shia,  Yazidi  and  Kurd  —  anyone  who  will  not  bow 
before the sword.
That so-called State, torn from existing nations with 
violence, rules by violence. Its authority is maintained 
by  forced  conversions  and  public  executions.  Its 
militants have destroyed lives and communities. They 
have destabilized fragile nations and threatened regional 
security. Yet their dark ambition stretches further still. 
They challenge the very notion of the State. They call 
to our youth with the siren song of illegitimate jihad. 
They demand that all Muslims swear allegiance to their 
so-called  caliph.  That  demand  will  never  be  met.  We 
reject the so-called Islamic State. We reject such a State 
defined by extremism. We condemn the violence being 
committed in the name of Islam.
Around the world, Muslims have watched in despair 
as our religion — a religion of peace — has been used 
to justify atrocities. We have turned away in horror at 
the crucifixions and the beheadings. We have mourned 
the sons who have been stolen and the daughters who 
have been sold. We know that the threat to world peace 
and security is not Islam but extremism — intolerant, 
violent  and  militant  extremism.  The  actions  of  those 
militants  are  beyond  conscience  and  belief.  They 
violate the teachings of Islam, the example set by the 
Prophet Muhammad and the principles of Islamic law.
As  we  speak,  some  Syrians  and  Iraqis  are  being 
forced  to  abandon  their  faith.  Yet  the  Koran  states: 
“There  shall  be  no  compulsion  in  religion”  (The 
Holy  Koran  II:256).  They  are  being  forced  from  their 
homes  and  forced  to  convert  to  Islam.  Yet  the  Koran 
says: “To you be your religion, and to me my religion” 
(ibid., CIX:6).  If  they  do  not  comply,  they  face  death. 
Yet  the  protection  of  life  is  a  fundamental  precept  of 
Islamic law, and the killing of civilians, even in war, is 
prohibited in Islam.
The  question  is:  How  should  we  respond?  In  the 
past, when the world mobilized to fight extremists, we 
launched wars without planning for peace. We attacked 
one  evil  only  to  see  a  greater  evil  emerge.  This  time 
must be different. This time, we must defeat not only 
the  extremists  but  also  their  ideas.  We  must  confront 
the  heresy  of  a  State  conceived  by  ungodly  men  and 
enforced through violence. In its place, we must advance 
the true Islam — the Islam founded on the principles of 
peace, tolerance and respect, as set out in the Koran, the 
Sunna and the Hadith. There are key things we must do.
First,  security  and  statehood  must  be  returned  to 
the  people  of  Syria  and  Iraq.  Malaysia  co-sponsored 
Security  Council  resolution  2178  (2014)  on  foreign 
terrorist  fighters  to  strengthen  our  commitment  to 
galvanizing  international  action  to  combat  terrorism. 
We call on the international community to stop the flow 
of money and recruits to extremist groups. We continue 
to offer humanitarian assistance under the ambit of the 
United  Nations  or  internationally  recognized  bodies 
to  those  who  are  displaced  by  the  fighting.  Attacks 
14-54935
45/47
A/69/PV.12 
26/09/2014
on militant targets should, at all cost, avoid collateral 
damage.
Secondly,  we  must  pursue  a  different  kind  of 
politics. The emergence of such militants is a symptom 
of political failure, of poor governance in fragile States 
and  the  conflict  that  still  rages  between  Sunni  and 
Shia. We must break the cycle where one group gains 
power  only  to  wield  it  against  the  other,  and  where 
marginalization  leads  to  radicalization,  as  people 
lose  confidence  in  the  State’s  ability  to  provide  both 
security  and  coexistence.  Individuals  and  ethnic  and 
religious groups need to feel that they have a stake in 
a nation’s success, not its failure. We should therefore 
commit  to  more  inclusive  politics.  That  is  a  difficult 
task. It demands pragmatism and compromise and must 
come from within.
Malaysia  stands  ready  to  share  its  experience 
in  marginalizing  extremism, 
in  maintaining  a 
multireligious  country,  where  different  faiths  coexist 
and  prosper,  and  in  showing  that  Islam  can  not  only 
succeed but also drive progress and development in a 
pluralistic  society.  Like  all  nations,  we  have  had  our 
growing pains. Stability is never permanent. It must be 
actively maintained. But in Malaysia, there are streets 
in which mosques, temples and churches stand side by 
side.  Ours  is  a  society  in  which  religions  may  differ, 
but they do so in peace, in the knowledge that we are all 
citizens of one nation.
We  believe  that  such  a  moderate  approach  can 
make  a  valuable  contribution  to  fragile  States  and 
international  affairs  alike.  It  is  a  philosophy  that  we 
have applied when acting as an honest broker in peace 
processes  in  the  southern  Philippines  and  elsewhere. 
It  is  a  principle  that  we  will  pursue  as  we  chair  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) next 
year,  when  it  forms  the  600-million  strong  ASEAN 
Community,  with  greater  political  security  and 
economic and sociocultural integration.
In the coming weeks, Malaysia will work with all 
interested  partners  to  move  the  moderation  agenda 
forward at the United Nations. That work informs our 
bid for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for 
the  coming  term.  The  moderation  agenda  involves  us 
all. The fight against extremism is not about Christians 
versus Muslims or Muslims versus Jews but moderates 
versus  extremists  of  all  religions.  We  need  to  rally  a 
coalition of moderates — those willing to reclaim their 
religion and pursue the path to peace.
I therefore reiterate my call on the leading figures 
in all the great religious traditions. Let us join together 
to  ensure  that  religion  is  the  source  of  healing  and 
blessing  rather  than  conflict  and  destruction.  In  that 
respect, I welcome Pope Francis’s visit to Palestine and 
his efforts to bring moderate Palestinians and Israelis 
together to pray for peace. By demonstrating moderation 
in the political process, we can ensure that no one is left 
outside  society.  By  practising  moderation  in  religion, 
we  can  marginalize  the  extremists.  By  committing  to 
moderation  here  at  the  United  Nations,  we  can  show 
that  the  world  is  willing  to  fight  extremism  not  just 
with short-term military operations but with long-term 
plans.
The 
security 
the 
response  of 
international 
community and a commitment to more inclusive politics 
on the part of affected countries will remove two of the 
conditions that allow extremism to take hold. However, 
in  order  to  defeat  the  extremists,  we  must  undermine 
their  authority  and  erode  their  appeal.  We  must 
confront their propaganda. We must defeat the message 
that  seduces  young  people  into  acts  of  violence.  And 
we  must  address  any  legitimate  grievances  that  drive 
people to extremism, be they political or economic. In 
short, we must win the hearts and minds of those who 
would serve the so-called caliph.
That  is  the  work  of  a  generation.  To  begin,  we 
should  focus  on  the  real-world  conditions  that  allow 
disillusion  to  grow.  That  means  building  sustainable 
economies  that  bring  opportunities  for  our  young 
people  and  addressing  legitimate  concerns  that  drive 
radicalization.
Malaysia,  like  so  many  countries  around  the 
world,  was  appalled  by  the  brutal  violence  against 
Palestinian  civilians  in  Gaza.  We  strongly  condemn 
Israel’s  disproportionate  and  indiscriminate  attacks 
on Gaza and its continuing violations of international 
and  human  rights  law.  The  use  of  heavy  weapons  in 
civilian areas and the obliteration of houses, mosques 
and  schools  were  an  affront  to  common  decency.  We 
condemn such acts not just for the innocent lives taken 
but for the message that they send, namely, that religions 
cannot  coexist  and  that  the  international  community 
cannot enforce international law and protect the rights 
of Palestinians. Their plight is one of the most effective 
rallying calls for those who claim that the international 
system is broken. 
Let us therefore unite to find a peaceful, just and 
lasting outcome that brings dignity and security to the 
46/47 
14-54935
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.12
people  of  Palestine.  That  should  be  predicated  on  a 
two-State solution based on the 1967 borders, with East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  That  will  bring  dignity  and 
security for the people of Palestine, who have suffered 
so  much,  and  will  allow  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to 
bring peace to other parts of the world where conflict 
fuels extremism.
of an Islamic State, agreed that for a State to be called 
Islamic, it must deliver economic, political and social 
justice. It must protect and further the six objectives of 
Islamic law: the right to life, religion, family, property, 
dignity and intellect — the same universal rights that 
are  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Declaration  of 
Human Rights.
to 
in  drawing  people 
We  must  also  understand  why  those  militants 
succeed 
their  cause.  The 
extremists call upon Muslims to pledge their allegiance 
to  their  self-proclaimed  caliphates  in  Syria  and  Iraq, 
in Nigeria and Somalia and in Kenya and Libya. They 
reach out to a people in search of a State. The fact that 
some  answer  that  call  is  testament  to  our  failure.  We 
have failed to uphold a vision of moderate and inclusive 
Islamic development and to tackle isolation in our own 
communities.The fight against extremists must be won 
not just in Syria and Iraq but also in Britain, Belgium, 
the  United  States  and  Malaysia.  We  have  managed 
to  prevent  extremism  from  gaining  a  foothold  in  our 
country.  Yet  even  a  few  Malaysians  have  been  lured 
by foreign terrorist fighters, who led them to Iraq and 
Syria.
Countries  must  educate, 
include  and,  where 
necessary, confront those at risk of radicalization. Our 
religious leaders must continue to show that faith and 
society  are  best  aligned  under  a  just  rule  of  law.  We 
must continue to make the case that the moderate path 
is the righteous path — the path that Allah set out for 
us when he said, “we have made you into a community 
that is moderate, justly balanced” (ibid., II:143).
We  must  confront  the  myth  that  committing 
atrocities in the name of an Islamic State is an act of 
faith  and  that  death  in  the  service  of  that  aim  brings 
martyrdom. The extremists use that distorted narrative 
as  a  recruitment  tool.  To  counter  that  deception, 
Muslims  should  work  together  to  promote  a  greater 
understanding of what a true Islamic State means. An 
international  conference  of  scholars  of  Islamic  law, 
convened by my Government to define the true meaning 
The so-called Islamic State in Syria and Iraq and 
the  methods  used  to  declare  it  have  violated  every 
single  one  of  those  objectives.  It  is  therefore  neither 
Islamic  nor  a  State.  Individuals,  religious  leaders  and 
nations have said that and must continue to do so and 
to advocate for Islamic principles within a framework 
of tolerance, understanding and peace.That, after all, is 
the true nature of Islam; a religion of peace that values 
coexistence,  mutual  comprehension  and 
learning, 
even  in  times  of  struggle.  When  70  prisoners  of  war 
were captured during the Battle of Badr, for example, 
the  Prophet  Muhammad  was  urged  to  slay  them. 
The  Prophet  not  only  protected  the  lives  of  innocent 
civilians, he also spared enemy combatants.
It  is  that  spirit  of  understanding  and  compassion 
that we should continue to embrace and espouse. Now 
is the time to advance a vision of peace and moderation. 
Let  us  call  for  a  global  community  of  understanding. 
Let  us  prove  that  we  can  honour  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  and  build  balanced  and  just  societies,  where 
different faiths live and prosper in peace. Let us show 
that Muslims, united in faith, can be a powerful force 
for progress, knowledge and justice, as we were in the 
greatest periods of our history, as we can be today, and 
as we will be tomorrow.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia for the statement he has just made.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime Minister of Malaysia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The meeting rose at 2.45 p.m.
14-54935
47/47
