United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
28th plenary meeting
Monday, 20 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Gunnarsdóttir 
(Iceland), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 11
Sport for development and peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/330)
The  Acting  President:  Earlier  this  year,  the 
international community commemorated the inaugural 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace, 
proclaimed  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh  session.  This  first  commemoration  was  an 
opportunity  to  celebrate  the  many  contributions  of 
sport to peace and development. Indeed, the Assembly 
has  long  recognized  the  virtues  of  sport  as  a  means 
to promote education, health, development and peace. 
From 1993, with its resolution calling for the first time 
on  the  observance  of  the  Olympic  Truce,  to  the  2004 
proclamation of the First International Year of Sport and 
Physical Education, the United Nations has continued 
to elevate the status of this important subject.
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
(resolution  60/1)  further  underlined  the  potential  of 
sport to foster peace and development and to contribute 
to an atmosphere of tolerance and understanding. This 
message was further reaffirmed in 2010 in the outcome 
document of the High-level Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals, recognizing that
“sport,  as  a  tool  for  education,  development 
and  peace,  can  promote  cooperation,  solidarity, 
tolerance,  understanding,  social 
inclusion  and 
health  at  the  local,  national  and  international 
levels” (resolutiion 65/1, para. 67).
From the first Olympic Games in Greece to the large 
sporting  events  drawing  an  international  and  diverse 
audience today, sport has always captivated the human 
mind. With its universal language, sport brings people 
together  across  cultural  and  political  boundaries  and 
around  shared  values  of  effort,  solidarity  and  respect 
for others. Sport not only promotes healthy lifestyles, it 
also fosters perseverance, team spirit and inclusiveness.
Since the Olympic Truce was first established in the 
ninth century in Greece, we have seen many examples 
illustrating the role of sport in creating bridges between 
divided  communities,  supporting  reconciliation  and 
fostering peace.
Over the past two decades, the United Nations and 
partners worldwide have committed to mainstreaming 
sport  into  social  policies.  From  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  matches  against  poverty  to 
initiatives  promoting  gender  equality  in  sport,  from 
athletes  speaking  out  against  discrimination  to  the 
inclusion of people with disabilities, sport has proven to 
be a powerful channel to promote development, poverty 
eradication and social inclusion.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  before  us 
today  (A/69/330)  describes  many  of  these  initiatives, 
undertaken by Member States and the United Nations 
system. I look forward to hearing members’ views on 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-57849 (E)
*1457849*
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
how we can further explore the contributions of sport to 
advance our efforts to bring about a more peaceful and 
prosperous world.
Mr.  Rahimov  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset,  on 
behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Azerbaijan, 
I extend our greetings to all delegations and wish them 
continued success in their endeavours.
Today  is  a  great  day  for  sport  and  peace,  and  we 
welcome  this  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Sport  is  among  the  key  factors  contributing 
to  promoting  education  and  development  among 
individuals and societies at large. By teaching respect 
for  the  equality  of  people,  tolerance  and  excellence 
through  fairness,  sport  can  have  a  positive  impact  on 
social inclusion and cohesion. This important potential 
has to be harnessed.
We welcome the work of the United Nations aimed 
at  mainstreaming  sport  in  the  policy  agenda  and 
enhancing  its  impact  on  development.  In  this  regard, 
we  highly  appreciate  the  work  of  the  Special  Adviser 
to the Secretary-General on Sport for Development and 
Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke.
We  recall 
the  General  Assembly’s 
landmark 
resolution  64/3,  of  19  October  2009,  which  conferred 
observer status on the International Olympic Committee 
(IOC). Under the able leadership of the IOC President, 
Thomas  Bach,  himself  an  Olympic  champion,  we  are 
well placed to effectively promote the Olympic ideals 
and values.
The 
of 
all 
efforts 
collaborative 
relevant 
organizations  and  agencies,  including  the  IOC,  to 
enhance  a  policy-oriented  and  advocacy-focused 
approach,  especially  in  the  context  of  ongoing  work 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  are  of  critical 
importance.
Policies and partnerships are a critical requirement 
for success at the national level as well. The Government 
of Azerbaijan has made the promotion of sport one of 
our  national  development  priorities.  This  year  we  are 
celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Ministry 
of  Youth  and  Sports,  which  was  established  within 
18 months of our independence. We have been steadfast 
in mainstreaming sport into our development strategies 
and in positioning our country as a sporting nation. In 
addition, our country has gained significant experience 
in hosting major events – not only at the European level, 
but also at the level of world championships.
Promoting sport as a means of education, health and 
development also fully corresponds with and underpins 
our State policy on youth. Today our population has a 
median age of 30 years. Youth make up 40 per cent of 
our  population  and  remain  our  top  priority.  Targeted 
policies to ensure inclusive recreation, sport and culture 
programmes are considered to be factors contributing 
to  the  success  of  our  national  youth  team,  which  was 
ranked  among  the  top  10  teams  at  the  Second  Youth 
Olympic Games, held this summer in Nanjing, China.
Building  sporting  infrastructure  is  central  to 
providing opportunities for exercise and physical health 
and  to  fostering  a  culture  of  sport  in  society.  Over 
just the past 10 years, we have put in place more than 
50  world-class  facilities  throughout  the  country.  That 
sporting infrastructure provides access to facilities to 
all our people at absolutely no cost. The opportunity to 
participate in sport at no cost has greatly enriched the 
lives of all of our people, including internally displaced 
persons  (IDPs),  the  total  number  of  whom  remains 
among the highest in the world.
In  April,  our  national  Generations  For  Peace 
volunteers,  working  with 
the  United  Nations 
Development Programme and UNICEF, kicked off an 
awareness-raising  initiative  on  the  role  of  sport  as  a 
tool for peace to benefit vulnerable groups, including 
refugees and IDPs.
We  welcome  the  designation  of  6  April  as  the 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace, 
in accordance with resolution 68/9. The Day has been 
included  in  the  official  calendar  of  the  Ministry  of 
Youth and Sport, and we have already held numerous 
sporting  competitions  in  collaboration  with  various 
federations and organizations.
International  sporting  events  are  an  important 
practical  tool,  not  only  for  identifying  talent  and  for 
winning but also for facilitating dialogue, understanding 
and  tolerance  among  nations.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to recall the remarks of the Secretary-General on 
the eve of the Second Youth Olympic Games:
“Sport  has  a  very  unique  and  extraordinary 
power  to  bring  people  together,  to  drive  social 
change and to bridge the gap between and among 
different  ethnicities  and  religions  and  people  and 
traditions – these are what the United Nations aims 
to promote and achieve.”
2/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
That view further cemented our own long-standing 
goals  and  ambitions,  and  we  are  deeply  committed 
to  achieving  those  objectives.  Over  recent  years, 
Azerbaijan  has  also  positioned  itself  as  a  destination 
for  many  sporting  competitions.  Along  with  world 
sporting events, regional sporting events are among our 
top priorities. 
At  this  time,  our  greatest  challenge  lies  just  236 
days from now. It is my pleasure and honour to inform 
the  Assembly  that  our  nation  will  host  the  inaugural 
European  Games  from  12  to  28  June  2015.  That  was 
a  historic  decision,  as  the  continents  of  Africa,  the 
Americas  and  Oceania  and  Asia  have  a  long  history 
of  continental  games  in  their  respective  regions.  In 
that  respect,  we  commend  the  visionary  approach  of 
Mr. Patrick Hickey, President of the European Olympic 
Committees. The population of our young independent 
nation  welcomed  the  decision  as  a  source  of  joy  and 
pride.  Over  the  17  days  of  competition  in  June  2015, 
more than 6,000 athletes from Europe will compete in 
20 sports, in a spirit of peace, fairness, friendship and 
unity. While having had little more than two years to 
prepare  for  the  Games,  our  country  is  determined  to 
do its best.
We  place  the  utmost  importance  on  that  event 
and have nominated the First Lady of Azerbaijan and 
UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Mehriban Aliyeva to 
lead our organization. It is with a great sense of honour 
and  responsibility  that  the  people  and  Government  of 
Azerbaijan are working to make that event a success.
In observance of resolution 68/9, entitled “Building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”,  it  is  important  and  appropriate  to 
continue  to  encourage  Member  States,  especially 
in  this  era  of  new  and  global  challenges,  to  observe, 
both individually and collectively, the principle of the 
Olympic Truce during the inaugural European Games 
next year.
In  2016,  we  will  host  the  forty-second  World 
Chess  Olympiad.  In  2017,  we  will  host  the  fourth 
Islamic Solidarity Games and, just last month, we were 
successful  in  our  bid  to  host  the  Union  of  European 
Football  Associations  Euro  2020  tournament.  We 
believe 
that  such  events  will  further  strengthen 
friendship,  solidarity  and  intercultural  dialogue,  and 
we  are  pleased  and  honoured  to  contribute  in  a  truly 
tangible  way  to  demonstrating  the  potential  of  sport 
to  contribute  to  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  encourage  all  Member 
States to visit our country and see at first hand sport in 
action for development and peace.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia):  It  is  a  pleasure  to  see  you, 
Madam, presiding over our meeting today.
(spoke in French)
At the outset, I would like to thank you, Madam, 
for your statement, which in my view comprehensively 
covers the major points that we will debate here today 
regarding the collective action carried out in the United 
Nations  system  and  elsewhere  aimed  at  attaining  our 
shared  goals  of  using  sport  as  a  tool  for  promoting 
development and peace.
I also wish to thank the Secretary-General for the 
quality  of  his  report  entitled  “Sport  for  development 
and  peace:  realizing  the  potential”  (A/69/330),  which 
gives a comprehensive overview of activities, including 
programmes  and  initiatives  implemented  by  Member 
States and by the funds and programmes of the United 
Nations,  specialized  agencies  and  other  partners, 
including  the  Olympic  Movement.  We  welcome  the 
activities  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  system, 
including  the  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace, over the past year.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  tireless  and  continuous  efforts  of 
Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General on Sport for Development and Peace, and we 
pledge our full support to his Office’s efforts to ensure 
the success of sport promotion programmes throughout 
the world.
Sport  is  traditionally  regarded  as  a  key  element 
in  establishing  the  norms  of  responsible  behaviour 
in  a  society,  playing  thereby  a  very  special  role  in 
maintaining  a  healthy  social  fabric.  It  goes  without 
saying that access to sport is a fundamental social right 
and a factor in social integration and development, as 
well  as  a  tool  for  promoting  exemplary  values  and  a 
solid education for our children and young people.
I would therefore like to reiterate the determination 
of  Tunisia  to  continue  in  its  efforts  to  make  sport, 
by  virtue  of  its  potential  for  communication  and 
reconciliation,  a  powerful  vector  for  integration  and 
development at the national, regional and international 
levels, and a way to promote solidarity, tolerance and 
the richness of cultural and human diversity.
14-57849
3/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
I would also like to express our appreciation for the 
interest  shown  by  all  Member  States  in  sport  and  for 
their commitment to its universal character as a tool for 
promoting peace, development, education and health.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the 
commemoration  on  6  April  of  the  first  International 
Day  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  The  Day 
served  as  an  opportunity  to  promote,  at  the  global 
level, the role of sport in promoting a peaceful society 
and the use of sport and physical activity as tools for 
development and peace.
I take this opportunity to welcome the signing in 
April  of  the  memorandum  of  understanding  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Olympic 
Committee  calling  for  the  strengthening  of  efforts 
to  promote  sports-related  initiatives  that  encourage 
economic  and  social  development  and  for  increasing 
the  number  of  partnerships  agreed  among  various 
United  Nations  bodies  and  the  International  Olympic 
Committee.
I  also  welcome  the  success  of  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympic  Games  held  in  Sochi,  which  consolidated 
the observance of the Olympic Truce and the ideals of 
the United Nations and the Olympic Movement, namely, 
friendship among peoples, harmony, non-violence and 
non-discrimination. The Games also clearly highlighted 
the unifying nature of sport and its catalysing character, 
generating 
friendship  and  sportsmanship  among 
athletes and fans, whatever their origins, affiliations or 
beliefs. I would also like to thank Brazil, the Republic of 
Korea and Japan for their commitments to host the next 
Olympic Games in 2016, 2018 and 2020, respectively.
Given  the  noble  nature  of  sport  and  its  vital 
contribution to the emergence of new generations eager 
for good physical and mental health, Tunisia wishes to 
take this opportunity to urge Member States to ensure 
that education on sports ethics is disseminated among 
young  people  through  the  educational  system  and 
through associations and organizations of civil society, 
so  that  arenas  and  sports  events  are  not  used  for  the 
expression of slogans drawn from the lexicon of racism, 
xenophobia and the rejection of the other.
In order to continue the current momentum and to 
make sport a means for promoting universal principles 
in  the  service  of  future  generations,  my  country 
reiterates its willingness to work with all stakeholders 
to  advance  the  noble  values    of  sport  as  a  means  of 
bringing  together  cultures,  fostering  social  inclusion 
and  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and the post-2015 development agenda currently being 
negotiated in this forum.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  This 
year  has  seen  two  high-level  events  –  in  the  Russian 
Federation,  the  XXII  Winter  Olympic  Games  and 
the XI Paralympic Games in Sochi, and in Brazil the 
International Federation of Association Football World 
Cup – that were able to bring the world together to share 
the passion and friendship that only sports can make us 
feel.  The  feat  of  self-transcendence  and  the  power  of 
sport prevailed in that context and were able to offer, if 
only for a moment, an opportunity to realize something 
to  which  we  all  aspire  in  this  Hall  –  the  values    and 
principles that unite us.
With  that  in  mind,  the  first  observance  of  the 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace 
was  also  held  this  year.  In  many  cities,  events  were 
organized to highlight the power of sport to transcend 
our  differences,  promote  tolerance  and  understanding 
and  set  the  target  of  the  inclusion  of  all.  The  active 
participation  of  United  Nations  agencies  such  as  the 
United Nations Development Programme and UNESCO, 
as  well  as  messages  from  the  United  Nations  Office 
on Sport for Development and Peace, summarized the 
power of sport in the following terms: respect and the 
promotion  of  dialogue  and  non-discrimination;  the 
preparation of children and young people for life; the 
ability to include everyone, regardless of their abilities; 
achieving  equality  between  the  sexes;  and  improving 
physical and mental health. 
In Monaco, the Department of National Education, 
Youth and Sport, in close partnership with the Princess 
Charlene  of  Monaco  Foundation  and  the  Peace  and 
Sport Organization, organized the Princess Charlene of 
Monaco Rally, which consisted of two sporting events 
and  one  intellectual  event  and  brought  together  400 
students, who competed in the spirit of teamwork and 
solidarity, testing their endurance.
The first celebration of the International Day was 
also an opportunity for the signing of a memorandum 
of  understanding  to  strengthen  the  already  strong 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International Olympic Committee (IOC), a collaboration 
designed to take advantage of the potential of sport for 
development and peace. We share the convictions of the 
International Olympic Committee and its goal of placing 
sport in the service of the harmonious development of 
4/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
humankind with a view to promoting a peaceful society 
concerned with the preservation of human dignity.
I  would  therefore  like  to  officially  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Mr.  Jacques  Rogge,  former  IOC 
President,  to  the  position  of  Special  Envoy  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  Youth  Refugees  and  Sport. 
Sport  as  a  tool  to  empower  young  displaced  people 
and refugees can contribute to prospects for peace and 
reconciliation,  but  also  to  health,  education,  gender 
equality and social inclusion in battered communities. 
Recognizing the role played by sport in achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals will lead us, as of next 
year, to give sport the place it deserves in the post-2015 
development  agenda,  emphasizing,  in  particular,  its 
multidimensional  impact  and  taking  into  account  the 
United Nations Action Plan on Sport for Development 
and Peace.
the  Monegasque  Association 
At  the  national  level,  the  Principality  of  Monaco 
focuses  on  various  areas  where  sport  and  physical 
activity  can  contribute 
to  development.  These 
include  sport  and  health,  by  educating  students  about 
Alzheimer’s  disease  through  a  walk  in  partnership 
with 
for  Research 
on  Alzheimer’s  Disease;  sport  and  prevention,  by 
establishing  lifeguard  and  first-aid  training  in  sports 
and  physical  education  classes  taught  by  instructors 
from  the  Monaco  Training  Centre  for  First  Aid  and 
Water  Rescue;  sport  and  disability,  by  educating 
students about accessibility for people with disabilities, 
focusing on interaction through sport with young adults 
with  disabilities;  and,  finally,  sport  and  childhood, 
by  giving  students  the  opportunity  to  participate  in 
no-finish-line running in physical education and sport 
classes, in partnership with the Monegasque Children 
and Future Association, in order to raise funds for the 
association. Monaco remains convinced that sport as a 
vector of values  , opportunities and openness can make 
a crucial contribution to giving needy children access 
to a healthy lifestyle, while promoting their integration 
into their community.
UNICEF’s efforts that focus on the integration of 
sports and games into the country programmes warrant 
our  support.  Its  regional  initiative  “Vamos  jugar”  in 
Latin America and the Caribbean puts to good use the 
momentum from the World Cup 2014 and the upcoming 
Olympic  Games  in  2016  in  encouraging  communities 
to provide sports facilities that are safe and accessible 
to all.
The  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  International 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  will  certainly 
provide  a  unique  opportunity 
to  promote  such 
programmes.  In  that  spirit,  Monaco’s  Department  of 
National Education, Youth and Sport will organize on 
20 November, which is the anniversary of the adoption 
of the Convention, a symbolic march for the children of 
the world.
In concluding my statement, I would like to thank 
the Secretary-General and the Special Adviser and his 
Office for their leadership.
Mr. Roet (Israel): On behalf of the State of Israel, I 
would like to thank the United Nations Special Adviser 
on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried 
Lemke, for his tireless work in fostering dialogue and 
partnership.
Israel  believes 
sport  nurtures  mutual 
understanding  and  coexistence  and  is  therefore  proud 
to co-sponsor the related draft resolutions.
that 
There are countless examples of the way in which 
sport  can  foster  peace  and  enable  development.  From 
Costa  Rica  to  Cameroon  and  from  New  York  to  New 
Delhi,  sport 
is  building  bridges  between  people 
from  different  countries,  cultures  and  communities. 
Throughout the world, disputes and disagreements are 
being  set  aside  and  common  ground  is  being  found 
on  dusty  lots  and  inside  grand  stadiums.  By  playing 
together,  people  learn  from  one  another,  and  in  the 
process greater understanding is fostered.
In August, some 80 Israeli and Palestinian students 
arrived  for  this  season’s  opening  training  session  at 
the Peres Center for Peace football programme. Just a 
few days after the summer conflict between Israel and 
Hamas in Gaza ended, Israeli children and Palestinian 
children  came  together  to  play  football.  The  coach  of 
the Palestinian squad, Ahmed Al-Jericho, said, 
“Our children think only of football. They love to 
play football. They do not care if it is with Jews or 
non-Jews. They are kids, and all they care about is 
living together in peace.”
Thousands  of  children  from  all  backgrounds  and 
religions overcome the barriers of language and culture 
through  programmes  like  the  Peres  Center’s  football 
programme. Former Israeli President Shimon Peres, for 
whom the Center is named, said:
14-57849
5/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
“You will spread word of the games and of peace 
–  shalom,  salaam  –  instead  of  confrontations. 
Everyone  loves  to  play  football,  regardless  of 
religion or nationality. You need peace and you will 
carry the message of peace.”
Nowhere is that more evident that on Israel’s national 
sports 
teams,  where  Jews,  Arabs,  Muslims  and 
Christians  all  share  the  same  uniform.  They  play 
together,  win  together  and  lose  together.  That  is  the 
power of sport.
The  same  power  can  be  seen  in  Rwanda.  The 
country is known as the land of 1,000 hills, and every 
hill  seems  to  hold  a  1,000  cyclists  delivering  food, 
firewood  and  coffee.  Travelling  through  the  country, 
one sees that many of the bikes were fashioned out of 
simple planks of wood. Ten years ago, a charity called 
Project  Rwanda  began  providing  thousands  of  new 
bikes to Rwandans. The organization also established 
an  annual  race  that  drew  hundreds  of  people  from 
different tribes to ride together. A movement was born, 
and 2007 saw the creation of the first Rwandan national 
cycling team, composed of both Hutu and Tutsi riders. 
They have proven the power of sports to unite people 
and overcome ethnic and cultural differences.
While  sport  should  be  immune  to  politics  and 
immune to racism, that has not always been the case. 
During  the  1972  Olympic  Games  in  Munich,  which 
featured  the  slogan  “The  Happy  Games”,  Palestinian 
terrorists killed 11 Israeli athletes, coaches and referees. 
Under  the  interlocking  rings  of  the  Olympic  banner, 
hostility took the place of international harmony. The 
memory of that dreadful day is still fresh in my mind. 
As a young boy, sport was to my mind magical, and the 
“Happy  Games”  were  the  high  point  that  I  had  been 
anticipating  for  weeks.  After  the  Munich  massacre, 
sports  and  the  Olympics  were  never  the  same  in  my 
mind.
I  am  sad  to  say  that  not  enough  has  changed 
since  then.  Israeli  athletes  still  have  to  contend  with 
discrimination.  This  year,  our  tennis  players  were 
excluded  from  a  tournament  in  Dubai;  athletes  from 
Tunisia,  Kuwait  and  Iran  refused  to  participate  in 
fencing and judo tournaments with Israelis; and one of 
our soccer teams was attacked by a mob that stormed 
the field during a friendship match in Austria. For sport 
to be a tool that can better the world, we cannot ignore 
the  racism  and  hate  that  sometimes  erupts  in  arenas 
and stadiums. Whether it is racist chants, taunts, ugly 
gestures or the racist “quenelle” salute, there must be a 
zero-tolerance policy towards racism. There is no room 
for any sort of prejudice, politics or racism in sport. It is 
our duty to protect and promote the fundamental values 
of teamwork, fairness and mutual respect. Let us work 
together to cultivate a culture that unites us rather than 
divides us.
Mr.  Stone  (Australia):  Australia  is  committed  to 
the principles of sport for development and peace and to 
the role that the United Nations can play in furthering 
those principles. We welcome the Secretary-General’s 
report  on  the  subject  (A/69/330)  and  would  like  once 
again to thank the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser 
on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried 
Lemke, for his ongoing efforts to promote the United 
Nations work in the field of sport for development and 
peace. We would also like to thank Monaco and Tunisia 
for  co-chairing  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for 
Development and Peace and for their facilitation of the 
biennial draft resolution (A/69/L.5), which Australia is 
pleased to co-sponsor.
Sport’s popularity, its capacity as a communication 
platform and its ability to connect people, both within 
and  between  communities,  make  it  a  tool  that  can 
be  used  to  meet  a  range  of  development  challenges, 
including meeting the Millennium Development Goals. 
Australia, with a reputation as a sporting nation, is well 
placed to use sport as a vehicle to contribute to targeted 
development  outcomes.  Over  the  past  five  years,  the 
Australian Government has committed $49 million to 
development through sports programmes. Our approach 
to  sport  for  development  first  identifies  development 
challenges,  and  then  determines  how  sport-based 
activities  can  help  meet  those  challenges.  In  the 
Pacific, working in partnership with Governments and 
non-governmental  organizations,  we  have  identified 
non-communicable  disease  prevention  and  enhancing 
the lives of people with disabilities as priority areas.
The Australian Sports Outreach Programme works 
in  seven  Pacific  countries  to  deliver  grass-roots  level 
sports  programmes  in  those  priority  areas.  Recently 
released  independent  research  on  the  Programme, 
commissioned  by 
the  Australian  Government, 
provides compelling evidence of the value of sport as 
a development approach. In Vanuatu and Nauru, sport 
programmes  are  contributing  to  greater  inclusion  of 
people  with  disabilities  in  community  life  by  helping 
to build the confidence and self-esteem of people with 
disabilities, providing opportunities for them to interact 
with their families and communities, and contributing to 
6/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
breaking down barriers and changing negative attitudes. 
Community activities are being modified to encourage 
greater  participation  by  children  with  disabilities. 
Children  are  motivated  to  join  the  programmes  after 
seeing other children with disabilities playing sport and 
being  encouraged  by  parents,  friends  and  volunteers. 
As  a  result,  the  children  have  increased  their  self-
efficacy and confidence and have expanded their social 
networks. The parents and caregivers of children with 
disabilities have described an increase in awareness of 
their  children’s  capabilities  after  watching  them  play 
sports. For some parents, that meant that they felt more 
engaged  with  their  childen.  All  parents  believed  that 
village attitudes had changed for the better, once people 
saw  children  with  disabilities  playing  alongside  those 
without.
To  combat  non-communicable  diseases, 
the 
Australian Sports Outreach Programmes in the Pacific 
have promoted an increase in physical activity through 
participation  in  sport.  The  evidence  presented  from 
research indicates that when used strategically, sports 
programmes  can  make  a  measurable  contribution 
to  reducing  some  of 
the  major  risk  factors  of 
non-communicable diseases by making people aware of 
the risks of physical inactivity and providing them with 
opportunities to be more physically active, which has 
a  positive  impact  on  other  health-related  behaviours, 
such  as  improved  diets  and  reduced  smoking  and 
drinking. The research has also shown the importance 
of getting women involved in community-based sports 
programmes.  Research  has  shown 
that  vegetable 
consumption  has  increased  and  the  consumption  of 
tobacco, alcohol and sugary drinks has decreased. That 
is an important finding, given the key role that women 
play in Pacific households.
Along with non-communicable disease prevention 
and enhancing the lives of people with disabilities, the 
development  through  sport  programmes  also  play  a 
role in improving social cohesion by bringing people in 
communities together in a positive way and by positively 
engaging  young  people  and  helping 
learn 
important  life  skills,  including  leadership,  teamwork, 
respecting rules, discipline and perseverance.
them 
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  an 
honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  take  part  in  today’s 
debate.  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
efforts  made  by  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Isabelle  Picco, 
Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Monaco, 
and  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari, 
Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Tunisia, 
as  co-facilitators  of  the  draft  resolution  on  sport  as  a 
means to promote education, health, development and 
peace (A/69/L.5). We are also pleased to co-sponsor that 
draft resolution, which we hope the General Assembly 
will adopt by by consensus.
Since  the  dawn  of  human  civilization,  sport  has 
always  contributed  in  a  significant  way  to  resolving 
differences  and  bringing  together  points  of  view  and 
countries. Sport has a unique ability to attract, mobilize 
and inspire people around the world. It knows neither 
geographic nor social boundaries. It is a powerful factor 
for  social  inclusion  and  flourishing,  which  makes  it 
possible  to  strengthen  relationships  and  to  promote 
the ideals of peace, fraternity, solidarity, non-violence, 
tolerance  and  justice.  Sport  is  also  a  highly  effective 
tool  for  achieving  development  goals  in  the  areas  of 
health, education, development and peace.
Morocco would like to pay a special tribute to all 
the international organizations that promote the role of 
sport around the world and welcomes the actions of the 
International Olympic Committee and the International 
Paralympic  Committee  to  promote  and  strengthen 
a  culture  of  peace  based  on  the  spirit  of  the  Olympic 
Truce.
My delegation also welcomes the declaration by the 
General Assembly of 6 April as the International Day of 
Sport for Development and Peace, aimed at marking the 
contribution of sport and physical activity to education, 
human development, healthy lifestyles and the building 
of a peaceful world.
At 
the  national 
level,  my  Government  has 
developed  a  national  policy  in  the  field  of  sport  and 
development.  Since  2008,  Morocco  has  had  a  new 
strategy  in  place  to  anchor  sporting  practice  and  its 
values  in  the  daily  lives  of  our  citizens,  confirm  that 
sport is a fundamental right and an important element 
of social integration, and expand access to sport, while 
boosting sports associations. That reflects the steadfast 
will of His Majesty the King to give strong impetus to 
development dynamics by using sport as a fundamental 
element  for  the  development  of  the  personal  skills 
and  abilities  of  young  people,  who  have  always  been 
among  the  strategic  priorities  for  the  Kingdom  in 
terms of education, training, access to labour markets, 
participation  in  political  life  and  contributions  to 
economic, social and cultural fields.
14-57849
7/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
Since  his  accession  to  the  throne,  His  Majesty 
King Mohammed VI has paid great attention to sport 
in  its  various  forms,  launching  numerous  sports 
infrastructure projects and contributing to the overall 
development  dynamics  of  the  Kingdom.  During  a 
national  sport  conference  held  in  October  2008,  the 
Moroccan sovereign designated sport as a fundamental 
right:
“Today, sport is becoming one of the fundamental 
rights  of  humankind.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to 
expand  access  to  sport  for  men  and  women  from 
all  sections  of  society,  without  distinction,  in  all 
regions  and  disadvantaged  areas,  and  to  include 
persons  with  special  needs.  Sport  is,  as  such,  a 
strong lever for human development, inclusion, and 
social  cohesion  and  for  fighting  against  poverty, 
exclusion and marginalization.”
As a result of the royal interest in the development 
of sport, Morocco today has the right to be proud to be 
one of the few countries in the world whose Constitution 
enshrines sport as a right of citizenship and a lever for 
human  development  in  harmony  with  the  profound 
changes  in  the  country  in  various  political,  economic 
and social fields.
through 
strengthening, 
to 
brotherhood, 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
sport, 
commitment 
international 
goodwill 
and  unity  among  peoples,  for  there  is  no  better  way 
than  sport  to  inculcate  and  encourage  the  values  of 
respect, diversity and tolerance between communities, 
civilizations  and  cultures.  In  addition,  peace  and 
non-violence are among our core values.
friendship, 
Mr.  Gupta  (India):  On  behalf  of  the  delegation 
of  India  to  the  United  Nations,  it  is  my  honour  and 
privilege to participate in this debate today and share 
our views on agenda item 11, entitled “Sport for peace 
and development”.
At the outset, we welcome the Secretary-General’s 
comprehensive  report  on  the  subject  (A/69/330)  and 
compliment  all  Member  States  and  entities  of  the 
United  Nations  system  for  taking  concrete  steps  to 
promote  sport  for  development  and  peace  since  the 
previous report, in 2012.
India  welcomed 
the  observance  of 
the  first 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace 
on  6  April  this  year.  We  firmly  believe  that  that  new 
commemoration  on  the  international  calendar  will 
further  promote  sport  as  a  catalyst  for  bringing  us 
together.
The  United  Nations  in  its  annual  reports  has 
consistently highlighted that participation in sport is a 
fundamental human right and is essential to the healthy 
development  of  children.  Sport  is  about  participation, 
inclusion and bringing people together by highlighting 
what they hold in common. Sport offers us an avenue 
to  learn  skills  such  as  discipline,  confidence  and 
leadership. Tolerance, cooperation and respect for others 
are  also  fostered  through  the  positive  interaction  that 
we experience. In addition, sport empowers individuals 
and helps foster self-esteem. We therefore believe that 
sport  can  bring  people  together  towards  a  common 
goal, while promoting respect and cooperation, and at 
times even facilitating the resolution of conflicts with 
lasting peace.
The  father  of  our  nation,  Mahatma  Gandhi  once 
said:
“When we play, we make mistakes, and when we 
make mistakes, we learn. Freedom holds no value 
unless we have the freedom to err.”
Against  that  backdrop,  the  exemplary  work  being 
done  by  Coaches  across  Continents  deserves  special 
mention.  The  innovative  use  of  football  in  Uganda  to 
reintegrate former child soldiers into their communities 
by teaching them life skills, health, wellness, education, 
empowerment  and  conflict 
indeed 
praiseworthy. That allows for rehabilitating interaction 
among  them  and  enables  them  to  seek  a  solution 
together as a team, without the use of violence.
resolution 
is 
The recognition by the United Nations of sport as a 
fundamental human right is the right step forward, given 
its  enormous  positive  impact  on  health,  not  only  for 
children but also for adults. The rise of obesity and the 
spread of lifestyle diseases, particularly cardiovascular 
diseases  and  diabetes,  make  participation  in  physical 
activity a critical necessity.
India is going through a period of rapid urbanization 
and  a  consequent  loss  of  open  green  spaces.  Against 
that background, fostering a culture of healthy lifestyle 
through regular physical exercise is also recognized by 
our  Government  as  a  national  health  priority.  In  that 
regard,  the  Prime  Minister  of  India,  Shri  Narendra 
Modi,  in  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth session stated:
8/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
“We need to change our lifestyles. Avoiding energy 
use  is  the  cleanest  option  and  would  give  a  new 
direction to our economy. For us in India, respect 
for  nature  is  fundamental  and  an  integral  part  of 
spiritualism … Today, I would like to underscore 
that  yoga  is  an  invaluable  gift  from  our  ancient 
tradition. Yoga embodies unity of mind and body, 
thought and action. It is important to coordinate all 
of those aspects. Such a holistic approach is valuable 
to our health and our well-being. Yoga is not just 
about  exercise;  it  is  a  way  to  discover  the  sense 
of oneness with oneself, the world and nature. By 
changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, 
it can also help us deal with climate change. Let us 
work towards adopting an international yoga day.” 
(A/69/PV.15, p. 18)
While India is considered to have been the birthplace 
of innumerable sports since ancient times, yoga offers 
a  holistic  approach  to  health  and  well-being  globally 
and  is  one  of  the  several  concrete  manifestations 
of  globalization  that,  through  the  exchange  of  best 
practices, promote better individual lifestyles that are 
devoid of excesses of all kinds. The Indian delegation 
has  since  initiated  steps  to  have  21  June  declared  as 
the  International  Day  of  Yoga  at  the  United  Nations, 
and,  given  its  widespread  recognition  and  popularity, 
we urge all Member States and observer States, along 
with  United  Nations  agencies,  to  join  in  making  that 
initiative of our Prime Minister a success.
The  transformation  of  sport  as  a  global  industry 
has  also  provided  considerable  scope  for  economic 
development  and  employment-generation  in  several 
developing  countries.  While  the  Olympic  Games  and 
other  continental  games  have  consistently  promoted 
economic  engagement,  India  has  also  experienced  a 
recent  spurt  in  domestic  sporting  engagements.  The 
development of the Indian Premier League has been a 
huge success and has transformed cricket’s popularity 
and  visibility.  Today  it  is  India’s  most  profitable  and 
popular sporting league and has generated employment 
and  revenues  for  upcoming  athletes/players,  sporting 
associations,  companies  and  all  stakeholders.  India  is 
now  using  that  format  to  encourage  traditional  sports 
like Kabaddi and other modern established sports such 
as badminton and hockey. The gradual transformation 
of  sports  as  popular  entertainment  is  also  aiding 
the  growth  of  the  sporting  goods  industry,  not  just 
domestically but also globally, thereby building a direct 
connection between sports and economic development.
In  view  of  the  United  Nations  designation  of 
sport  as  a  fundamental  human  right,  we  have  also 
taken  several  concrete  measures  to  popularize  sport 
and  ensure  the  greater  participation  of  young  people. 
In  taking  forward  the  initiative  and  by  building  upon 
the  popular  collegiate  sports  format  that  is  prevalent 
globally,  the  Association  of  Indian  Universities  and 
TransStadia have signed a 10-year alliance agreement 
to  restructure  and  popularize  a  sports  ecosystem. 
TransStadia and the Association of Indian Universities 
aim  to  give  further  impetus  to  the  spirit  of  peace, 
education  and  development  through  sport.  It  provides 
an excellent platform for aspiring young sporting talent 
to prove its mettle.
My  delegation  also  commends  the  city  of  Sochi, 
Russia,  for  having  successfully  organized  the  XXII 
Winter Olympic Games and the XI Winter Paralympic 
Games.  We  also  congratulate  Brazil  for  successfully 
hosting the superb sporting spectacle of the 2014 World 
Cup  of  the  International  Federation  of  Association 
Football  (FIFA)  and  Germany  for  being  its  much 
deserving  winner.  We  would  also  like  to  express  our 
appreciation for FIFA’s gesture of pledging $450,000 to 
help fight Ebola, an example of sport working for the 
benefit of humankind.
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
compliment UNICEF for having designated, last year, 
the Indian cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar as their 
first  brand  ambassador  for  South  Asia  to  promote 
hygiene and sanitation in the region. We are confident 
that the association of such inspirational sporting icons 
with those worthy causes will act as a force multiplier for 
getting young people motivated to work for UNICEF’s 
success in the region.
Our  appreciation  must  also  be  extended  to  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace and the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
for highlighting the importance of sport and for using 
it  as  a  medium  for  furthering  the  cause  of  peace  and 
development. Please rest assured of our Government’s 
steadfast support for the success of that initiative.
It  promotes 
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Sport  is  a  universal  language  for  human 
interaction. 
strengthening  of 
understanding  among  peoples  and  intercivilizational 
comity. International sporting cooperation can play an 
important  role  in  overcoming  national  and  religious 
enmity and in countering the ideologies of intolerance. 
the 
14-57849
9/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
That  is  especially  relevant  these  days  when,  faced 
with  globalization  and  the  consequences  of  various 
crises  on  both  an  international  and  a  regional  scale, 
we are witnessing greater social, cultural and national 
tensions, religious discord and outbursts of extremism.
In  such  conditions,  it  is  more  important  than 
ever  for  the  international  community  to  continue  its 
efforts aimed at turning sport, which has such a huge 
unifying  potential,  into  an  engine  for  comprehensive 
socioeconomic development and a means for achieving 
solidarity, tolerance and cultural diversity. At the same 
time, we are forced to note an alarming trend towards the 
erosion of one of the basic principles of the international 
sport movement, namely, the principle of sport beyond 
and above politics. Today, we are all witnesses to quite 
obvious  attempts  to  use  major  international  sports 
events  and  sport  as  a  whole  as  a  lever  for  exerting 
political pressure and for promoting the latest interests 
of the day. In such cases, the international community 
faces the task of having to work harder to preserve and 
strengthen sport’s unifying mission.
We  highly  value  United  Nations  activities  aimed 
at  enhancing  international  sports  cooperation  and 
promoting strengthened understanding among peoples 
and civilizations. The United Nations Office on Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace  plays  a  key  role  in  that 
regard.  We  consider  the  Office  to  be  an  important 
structure  within  the  United  Nations  system  for  the 
strengthening  the  use  of  sport  as  an  advocacy  tool 
for  the  Organization’s  objectives,  mission  and  values. 
In  that  context,  we  note,  in  particular,  the  Office’s 
contribution  in  assisting  the  work  of  the  Sport  for 
Development and Peace International Working Group. 
Russia, as a co-chair of one of its thematic subgroups, 
intends to continue to actively cooperate on sport with 
our  partners  within  the  framework  of  the  Working 
Group.
We  would  like  to  extend  our  gratitude  to  the 
Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Sport for 
Development and Peace, Mr. Lemke, and the President 
of  the  International  Olympic  Committee,  Mr.  Bach, 
for  their  support  for  the  Russian  efforts  in  preparing 
for  the  Winter  Olympics  and  Paralympics  in  Sochi. 
The  praise  we  received  from  those  distinguished  and 
universally  influential  sports  officials  confirms  that 
what we managed to do was not done in vain. The Sochi 
Games made a substantial contribution to popularizing 
the  international  Olympic  Movement,  which  was 
demonstrated by the unprecedented number of Heads of 
State and Government and supporters from 126 States 
who visited Sochi and by the record broadcast audience 
ratings.
The 2014 Games were also unique in terms of their 
contribution  to  the  development  of  world  sport.  The 
Sochi Olympics and Paralympics saw the participation 
of a record number of athletes. For the very first time, 
top  medals  were  won  by  representatives  of  21  States. 
With regard to the infrastructure inherited by the Sochi 
area,  it  includes  an  operational  major  winter  sports 
training centre.
The  Sochi  Paralympics  left  a  special  legacy  by 
giving  momentum  to  the  creation  in  Russia  of  an 
environment of access for all within the framework of 
the State’s equal access programme. Olympic ideals will 
be promoted by the creation of a Russian international 
Olympic university in Sochi, which has already started 
training  officials  for  the  organization  of  major  sports 
events, including the Olympic Games.
As 
in 
the  past,  we  are  ready 
to  continue 
constructive international sports cooperation with our 
friends  throughout  the  world  and  to  organize  major 
international sports events and forums in our country 
at the highest possible levels.
Mr.  Singer  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States would like to thank Monaco and Tunisia, 
the  co-Chairs  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for 
Development and Peace, as well as the Special Adviser 
to the Secretary-General on Sport for Development and 
Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke, for their work in supporting 
sport’s role in furthering development and peace.
The  United  States  is  home  to  a  vast  array  of 
sporting  communities  and  activities.  Americans  of 
every  identity  and  background  participate  in  sport, 
from  backyard  play  and  little  leagues  all  the  way 
to  professional  and  international  competition.  That 
diversity  and  universality  of  participation  is  what 
makes  sport  the  opportunity  to  advance  development 
and peace. Part of what makes sport so important is that 
it promotes inclusiveness, bringing together people of 
different  ages,  race,  religion,  social  status,  disability, 
sexual orientation and gender identity. Sport crosses all 
segments of society and is instrumental in empowering 
people  of  diverse  backgrounds  and  identities,  while 
fostering tolerance and respect for all people, no matter 
what they look like, where they worship or whom they 
love.
10/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
in 
The United States recognizes that sports diplomacy 
is a valuable means for strengthening cultural relations 
among nations. Through our SportsUnited programme, 
thousands  of  people  from  over  100  countries  have 
participated 
sports  and  cultural  exchanges. 
SportsUnited  engages  people  from  around  the  world 
in four key ways. The Empowering Women and Girls 
Through Sports initiative seeks to increase the number 
of  women  and  girls  worldwide  involved  in  sport  and 
to foster greater academic success, stronger leadership 
skills and improved health. The Sports Envoy Program 
makes use of senior athletes to conduct team-building 
exercises overseas and engages youth in a dialogue on 
the importance of education, positive health practices 
and respect for diversity. The Sports Visitors Program 
gives  young  people  an  opportunity  to  travel  to  the 
United  States  and  discover  how  success  in  athletics 
can  be  translated  into  the  development  of  life  skills 
and  achievement  in  the  classroom.  And  the  Sports 
Grants initiative focuses on empowering athletes with 
disabilities and underserved youth.
Sport provides a universal language that contributes 
to educating people on the values of respect, diversity, 
tolerance  and  fairness  and  is  a  means  to  combat  all 
forms  of  discrimination  and  promote  social  inclusion 
for all. 
Mr. Ismail (Brunei Darussalam): Brunei Darussalam 
fully supports agenda item 11, “Sport for development 
and peace”. We also recognize the significant role and 
positive impact of sport in contributing to development 
and peace. In that regard, we have had a national sports 
policy in place since 1989 that identifies sport as one 
of  the  crucial  elements  and  most  effective  means  for 
enhancing the quality of life. We believe that sport can 
be an effective tool in getting people to communicate, 
understand  one  another  and  form  friendships  across 
nations and boundaries, and can, in the long run, bring 
about peace and harmony. We are also convinced that 
development  of  that  kind  will  ensue,  not  just  at  the 
national level, but also in the world at large.
In  Brunei  Darussalam,  we  encourage  everyone’s 
participation  in  sports  activities,  including  youth  and 
the  elderly.  Our  target  includes  having  at  least  one 
sports  facility  located  within  two  kilometres  of  each 
populated area. We now have 673 sporting facilities with 
140 football fields, 200 outdoor and 260 indoor sports 
facilities, 60 jogging tracks, and 13 public swimming 
pools. Physical education has always been part of our 
national education curriculum. Our schoolchildren and 
youth are not only highly active in sports competitions 
across  the  country,  but  have  also  participated  in 
regional  and  international  tournaments.  We  are  also 
proud  to  now  have  a  good  representation  of  female 
athletes, instructors, coaches and sports administrators. 
At  present,  females  in  Brunei  Darussalam  account 
for  almost  60  per  cent  of  our  national  athletes.  They 
represent the country at numerous subregional, regional 
and  international  sporting  events,  including  the  2012 
London Olympics.
Our  National  Plan  of  Action  on  Persons  with 
Disabilities  seeks  to  promote  and  protect  their  rights 
and enhance their full participation in society as part 
of  our  efforts  at  inclusiveness.  The  Plan  of  Action  is 
carried out in close collaboration with both the private 
sector  and  non-governmental  organizations  to  ensure 
inclusiveness  and  allow  our  people  to  reach  their  full 
potential. Our national sport events have also stressed 
the  rights  of  all  people  to  participate,  and  our  first 
athlete with disabilities took part in the London 2012 
Summer Paralympic Games.
In commemorating the International Day of Sport 
for Development and Peace on 6 April this year, Brunei 
Darussalam organized, for the first time, a nation-wide 
sporting event, with the collaboration and participation 
of  our  national  sports  associations  and  bodies.  Our 
objective was to inculcate the spirit and value of sport 
for  all,  equality  and  non-discrimination,  fairness, 
integrity, tolerance, respect and mutual understanding.
Additionally,  we  have  two  ongoing  programmes 
in  relation  to  sport  for  development  and  peace  that 
especially focus on our youth, who make up more than 
50 per cent of our population. The first is the Hassanal 
Bolkiah Trophy for the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations  Youth  Football  Championship  for  under-21-
year-old players. The initiator of that tournament, His 
Majesty the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam, encourages 
young athletes and sports enthusiasts from Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries to come 
together to uphold the spirit of sportsmanship and form 
bonds of friendship.
The  tournament  also  seeks  to  promote  greater 
understanding and contribute to the maintenance of a 
harmonious  ASEAN  community  in  South-East  Asia. 
Another  programme  is  the  annual  five-day  National 
Youth  Challenge,  which  is  aimed  at  cultivating  the 
values and spirits of sport among our young people from 
an  early  age.  That  programme  brings  together  youth 
from  various  backgrounds.  Team-building  exercises 
14-57849
11/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
through community service, such as helping the poor, 
the elderly and people with special needs, form part of 
its activities.
Brunei Darussalam welcomes the recent establishment 
of  the  Commonwealth  Youth  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace  Working  Group,  which  emphasizes  youth 
development.  In  that  regard,  we  have  established  two 
communication platforms, the first called Planning for 
the Youth, By the Youth, the second being the National 
Youth Dialogue, whereby the Government takes young 
people’s  views  into  account  in  promoting  healthy 
lifestyles, sports volunteerism and the sports industry.
The importance of sport for development in social 
harmony  and  economic  progress  is  also  upheld.  To 
that  end,  our  Ministry  of  Culture,  Youth  and  Sports, 
Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health and Ministry 
of Development, as well as the private sector, have been 
working hand in hand organizing national and regional 
sporting events to promote healthy lifestyles.
Brunei  Darussalam  welcomes 
the  sharing  of 
best  practices  in  sport  for  development  and  peace 
programmes  with  other  Member  States.  We  believe 
that  they  will  develop,  enhance  and  strengthen  our 
relations with other Member States, and unite the world 
community through social lifestyles, youth development 
and peace and by fostering sustainable development.
Ms.  Almeida  Watanabe  Patriota  (Brazil):  As  a 
long-standing  sponsor  of  the  annual  draft  resolution 
on  sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education,  health, 
development  and  peace,  Brazil 
to 
promoting sport as an instrument for development and 
peace.
is  committed 
Sport  is  deeply  rooted  in  the  Brazilian  culture 
and  society.  Our  Constitution  recognizes  the  practice 
of sport as a fundamental social right, in line with the 
UNESCO International Charter of Physical Education 
and  Sport,  which  declares  that  sport  and  physical 
education is a fundamental right for all. Moreover, the 
Brazilian Government firmly believes in the potential 
of  sport  as  an  important  factor  for  social  inclusion, 
poverty  reduction  and  sustainable  development.  The 
General  Assembly’s  resolutions  and  the  Secretary-
General’s reports on the issue have rightly recognized 
the role of sport as a means to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  also  believe  that  sport  will 
be  equally  instrumental  in  promoting  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Brazil  also  sees  sport’s  potential  to  foster  peace 
and  unity.  In  that  context,  we  recall  the  historic 
match  between  the  Brazilian  and  Haitian  national 
football  selections  in  August  2004,  when,  responding 
to  an  invitation  from  the  Prime  Minister  of  Haiti, 
the  Brazilian  national  team  travelled  to  Haiti  to  play 
a  Game  for  Peace,  as  it  was  called.  The  parade  of 
Brazilian  athletes  along  the  15-kilometre  route  to  the 
stadium  was  followed  by  thousands  of  Haitians,  who 
for  some  hours  put  aside  their  differences  and  united 
around  a  common  goal.  The  episode  had  long-lasting 
effects  and  produced  a  communion  of  interests,  as 
well as joy and peace, in a moment of political tension 
and instability. That illustrates how politics and sport, 
history and solidarity can coexist.
Brazil is currently in the middle of a sport-centred 
decade.  We  hosted  the  Fédération  Internationale  de 
Football Association (FIFA) Confederations Cup in 2013 
and the FIFA World Cup earlier this year. In September 
2015, Brazil will host the first World Indigenous Games 
and the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games in the 
following year.
The  decision  to  put  forward  its  candidacy  to  host 
those  large  sporting  events  is  consistent  with  the 
priority Brazil accords to the promotion of sustainable 
development and social inclusion. In order to prepare for 
them, the Government has been paying special attention 
to the human, social and development dimensions they 
encompass.  Brazil  is  an  advocate  of  the  potential  of 
sports  to  end  discrimination.  Together  with  FIFA,  we 
worked towards a World Cup that could convey a strong 
message against discrimination and intolerance, under 
the  campaign  entitled  “Say  No  to  Racism”  that  was 
carried out during the World Cup.
its 
twenty-fourth  session, 
Brazil  was  part  of  the  core  group  that  presented 
resolution  24/1,  entitled  “Promoting  human  rights 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  to  the  Human 
Rights  Council  at 
in 
September  2013.  It  had  more  than  130  sponsors  and 
was  adopted  by  consensus.  The  resolution  recognizes 
sport as a universal language that has the potential to 
contribute to educating people on the values of respect, 
diversity,  tolerance  and  fairness  and  as  a  means  to 
combat all forms of discrimination and promote social 
inclusion for all. It also reaffirms the need to combat 
discrimination  and  intolerance  wherever  they  occur, 
within and outside the sporting context. It is therefore 
an  important  tool  for  fighting  discrimination  of  any 
kind.  In  the  same  vein,  Brazil  was  also  one  of  the 
12/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
sponsors of Human Rights Council resolution 27/32, on 
human  rights,  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity, 
and  an  active  member  of  the  Lesbian,  Gay,  Bisexual 
and Transgender Core Group at the United Nations.
The  importance  of  sport  is  also  recognized  in 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  and  in  the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 
During  the  opening  of  the  2012  Paralympic  Games, 
the  Brazilian  Government  signed  a  joint  declaration 
with  the  Governments  of  the  United  Kingdom,  the 
Russian  Federation  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  on  the 
role  of  the  Games  in  the  promotion  of  human  rights 
and  of  values  such  as  accessibility,  social  inclusion, 
non-discrimination,  equality  and  respect.  It  is  in  that 
spirit that we will welcome the world to our country as 
hosts of the first World Indigenous Games in 2015 and 
the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016.
Ms. Al-Hijji (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I am pleased 
to participate in the discussion of this item and to have 
Qatar join the sponsors of draft resolution A/69/L.5 on 
this  item,  which  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  at 
a  later  date.  We  believe  it  is  an  opportunity  to  recall 
the  importance  of  sport  as  a  tool  for  reinforcing  the 
objectives  of  peace  and  development  and  the  values 
we  all  share  and  is  a  way  to  reaffirm  that  sport  can 
play  a  role  in  addressing  social  problems.  We  also 
welcome the important elements mentioned in the draft 
resolution, including partnerships between the private 
and public sectors, the role of the United Nations and the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  the  importance  of 
fairness and integrity in sports competitions, equality, 
non-discrimination  among  States  and  individuals  in 
sports, and the rights of special groups such as children, 
women and the disabled to practice sports.
We take this opportunity to express our appreciation 
for the efforts of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  and 
we  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/69/330).
The  State  of  Qatar  recognizes  the  importance 
of  sports  in  promoting  physical  and  psychological 
health  and  fitness,  social  cohesion  and  solidarity;  in 
inculcating  noble  values  in  the  younger  generation; 
and  in  promoting  development  and  peace.  It  is  also  a 
way  to  achieve  tolerance  and  diversity.  Accordingly, 
the  State  of  Qatar  accords  great  importance  to  sports 
at  the  national,  international  and  regional  levels.  We 
have  successfully  hosted  major  sports  events  such  as 
the Asian Games in 2006 and the Doha GOALS Forum, 
which since 2012 has served as a forum for international 
development  initiatives  through  sports,  sponsored  by 
His  Excellency  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani, 
Amir of the State of Qatar. Sports facilities in Qatar are 
sophisticated and state-of-the-art, and they enable the 
promotion of sports in Qatari society.
the 
international 
At 
level,  our  policy 
for 
international development includes a focus on initiatives 
on  sports  and  youth.  The  Qatar  Olympic  Committee 
is  an  important  institution  that  has  carried  out  many 
important  initiatives  and  contributions  at  the  national 
and  international  levels.  We  supported  the  forty-first 
session of the United Nations Inter-Agency Games last 
April  in  New  York.  Qatar  is  a  member  of  the  Group 
of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace at the 
United Nations and co-chaired that Group in Geneva in 
2013 with Costa Rica. The Qatar Olympic Committee 
2020-2022  is  playing  an  important  role  in  preparing 
Qatar to host FIFA in 2022. It will be the first time that 
an Arab, Muslim and relatively small country will host 
such an important event.
Since  2012,  on  the  second  Tuesday  in  February, 
Qatar has celebrated National Sport Day, when public 
institutions  and  sports  facilities  organize  various 
activities  to  spread  awareness  of  and  participation  in 
sports.  That  important  initiative  aims  to  expand  the 
base  of  participation  in  sports,  health  and  physical 
activity, opening opportunities for participation by all 
members of society in sports and raising awareness of 
sports  and  the  importance  of  physical  education  and 
activity. According to the decree by the Amir adopted 
recently,  the  Day  is  a  paid  national  holiday  to  enable 
employees to participate and benefit. That initiative is 
an important example of the importance that the State 
of  Qatar  accords  to  sport  and  the  manner  in  which  it 
supports participation in sports and inculcates the values 
of sports in Qatari culture, all for promoting a healthy 
society that aims to achieve peace and development.
Mr. Nell (Germany): The report of the Secretary-
General  entitled  “Sport  for  development  and  peace: 
realizing  the  potential”  (A/69/330)  underlines  once 
again the important role sport can play in the different 
areas  of  development  and  peacebuilding,  including 
specific  initiatives  undertaken  by  the  Member  States 
and entities of the United Nations system.
Sport activities bring together people from different 
regional,  cultural  and  religious  backgrounds  and  help 
to  overcome  cultural,  linguistic  and  other  barriers. 
Sport  plays  a  valuable  role  in  contributing  to  social 
14-57849
13/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
cohesiveness and rapprochement between cultures and 
peoples. Moreover, sport programmes can foster social 
inclusion and help in overcoming discrimination, inter 
alia on the grounds of race, religion, political opinion, 
disability,  gender,  sexual  orientation  and  gender 
identity. Sport can also help to promote the achievement 
of internationally agreed development goals, including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Moreover,  sport 
programmes can support social integration, especially 
after periods of conflict.
Sport for development is playing an important role 
in German development cooperation. Recent examples 
are  specific  programmes  that  Germany  supported  in 
five  countries.  The  focus  of  each  programme  varies 
from country to country depending on its needs, but it 
emphasizes mainly gender equality, youth development, 
HIV/AIDS  prevention,  peacebuilding  and  violence 
prevention.
We  are  grateful  to  the  Special  Adviser  to  the 
Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace, my compatriot Mr. Wilfried Lemke, for bringing 
together  and  coordinating  the  different  actors  in  the 
fields  of  sports  and  development:  multilateral  actors 
such as United Nations entities, national Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil-society 
organizations.  The  Office  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace  plays  a  key  role  in  connecting  people  and 
promoting  peace  and  mutual  understanding.  One 
very  important  initiative  in  this  regard  is  the  Youth 
Leadership camps developed by the Office. Germany is 
proud to have hosted such camps twice already.
I should like to conclude by thanking the co-Chairs 
of  the  Group  of  Friends  for  Sport  for  Development 
and Peace - in New York, Monaco and Tunisia, and in 
Geneva, Costa Rica and Qatar - for their engagement in 
this important field of our work at the United Nations.
Ms.  Mohamed  (Ethiopia):  Let  me  begin  by 
thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  the  report  he 
submitted  to  the  Assembly  on  the  agenda  item  under 
discussion  (A/69/330),  in  which  the  wide-ranging 
activities  conducted  by  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations, the Organization’s various agencies and 
other  stakeholders,  pursuant  to  resolution  67/17,  were 
described in detail, providing beneficial information on 
the progress that we have made so far.
We  welcome  the  report,  as  it  underscores  the 
continued attention accorded to the importance of sport 
in  promoting  peace,  security  and  development.  I  also 
wish to join previous speakers in thanking Mr. Wilfried 
Lemke,  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General,  for 
his continuing support to Member States in their efforts 
to promote the role of sport for development and peace, 
in  general,  particularly  in  helping  to  enhance  global 
cultural understanding and friendly relations.
the  fact 
Ethiopia  recognizes 
that  sport  has 
traditionally  played  a  significant  role  not  only  in 
enhancing  the  physical  and  mental  well-being  of 
individuals and members of communities, but has also 
benefited  people  by  promoting  and  bringing  about 
change  for  the  better  in  the  social,  economic  and 
political domains of humanity. Its extraordinary ability 
to galvanize people in spite of their diverse national and 
cultural  backgrounds  must  be  further  enhanced  and 
harnessed  to  the  advantage  of  all  of  us,  as  well  as  to 
enable us to defend our ideas and share our ambitions 
to fight poverty and achieve peace.
Ethiopia  also  believes  that  the  integration  and 
mainstreaming  of  sport 
in  national  development 
programmes and policies deserve due consideration in 
order to improve the lives of people in terms of health 
and  physical  strength  and  economically.  As  in  most 
countries, sport is very popular and is widely practiced 
by  many  people  in  Ethiopia.  Indeed,  at  present  our 
people have become the beneficiaries of various kinds 
of sport activities, much more than in the past. 
But sport has not yet reached the desired level that 
we  all  expect  it  to  achieve.  Therefore,  in  recognition 
of  the  central  role  that  sport  could  play  in  national 
socioeconomic  development, 
the  Government  has 
developed  a  comprehensive  national  sport  policy  and 
has put in place appropriate mechanisms to implement 
it.
the  firm  conviction 
The  basic  tenets  on  which  the  policy  bases  itself 
include,  among  others, 
that 
sport  is  the  fundamental  right  of  all  citizens  to  enjoy 
and  practice  regardless  of  gender  or  sociocultural 
background  and  without  any  restrictions  whatsoever. 
Moreover,  the  Government  wishes  to  ensure  that  the 
overall  organization  and  management  of  sport  is 
community-based and that the participation of society 
in  different  sports-related  activities  in  their  own 
localities,  school  and  workplaces  is  in  accordance 
with  their  interests  and  preferences.  Therefore  it  has 
undertaken further measures that help to implement the 
national policy, with the support and cooperation of the 
relevant governmental organizations and institutions.
14/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
Ethiopia not only acknowledges and recognizes the 
potential role of sport in enhancing overall human well-
being  and  social  changes  in  all  aspects  of  life,  but  it 
has  also  adapted  various  United  Nations  declarations 
and resolutions on sport and implemented them across 
the  country  in  various  forms  of  sports  activity.  In 
addition, Ethiopia has chosen sport as one of its overall 
development  priorities  and  hence  has  actively  been 
working  to  further  enhance  its  useful  contribution 
by  integrating  it  into  other  national  development  and 
peace policies.
As a result, we have succeeded in bringing about 
positive changes in the areas of health, child and youth 
development,  youth  unemployment,  the  eradication 
of  poverty,  gender  equality,  the  inclusion  of  persons 
with  disabilities, 
and 
peacebuilding.
environmental  protection 
Our ongoing five-year growth and transformation 
plan  has  been  instrumental  in  promoting  health, 
mental  well-being  and  disease  prevention  through 
numerous sport activities. It should also be noted that 
all current measures that have been taken in one way 
or  another  are  linked  to  efforts  in  implementation  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other  United 
Nations development programmes.
We would like in this regard to call upon partners 
and other stakeholders to continue to help our national 
institutions  in  their  capacity-building  efforts  in  sport 
and physical education by providing financial, technical 
and  logistical  support  for  the  development  of  sport 
programmes in Ethiopia.
Though  we  are  convinced  that  much  has  been 
done,  we  feel  confident  that  we  are  moving  in  the 
right  direction  to  make  sport  into  a  potential  tool 
for  national  development  in  all  aspects,  including  in 
strengthening  global  understanding  and  friendship  as 
well as in pursuing our peace agenda. On the other hand, 
mobilizing resources to employ sport for development 
objectives  and  to  promote  the  peace  agenda  remains 
a  critical  challenge,  to  be  overcome  in  a  sustainable 
manner.  Thus,  in  addressing  resource  constraints  in 
addition to national efforts, cross-sectoral partnership 
and  collaboration  with  regional  and  international 
stakeholders  are  of  significant  importance.  Moreover, 
Ethiopia  needs  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other development partners, most notably in the areas of 
capacity-building, the provision of sports facilities and 
equipment,  and  the  promotion  of  mass  or  community 
sport participation, with a view to fully harnessing the 
power of sport to promote development and peace.
Let  me  in  conclusion  reiterate  that  Ethiopia  will 
remain  committed  to  implementing  all  sport-related 
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations  and  work  with  all 
stakeholders to promote sport as a tool for development 
and peace, nationally, regionally and across the rest of 
the world.
Mr.  Lazarev  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation of the Republic of Belarus has studied with a 
great deal of interest the report of the Secretary-General 
entitled  “Sport  for  development  and  peace:  realizing 
the  potential”  (A/69/330).  We  would  like  to  extend  to 
him our gratitude for its preparation. At the same time 
we  consider  it  important  that  in  similar  such  reports, 
the concrete actions of the United Nations with regard 
to developing sports in terms of peace and development 
and  in  banning  negative  manifestations  –  primarily 
politicization  of  the  preparations  for  and  holding  of 
sports  events  –  should  be  made  clear.  That  could  be 
fostered,  first  and  foremost,  by  promoting  practical 
interaction  and  cooperation  among  the  leadership  of 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat  and  the  International 
Olympic Committee.
As shown by the report’s examples, sport is a tool 
for intercultural dialogue and understanding. It can and 
should  contribute  towards  achieving  the  sustainable 
development  goals  and  to  forging  relations  among 
individuals and among States. Major international sports 
events often achieve more in dispelling stereotypes and 
prejudice than any political process.
We  congratulate  the  Russian  Federation  on  the 
successful conduct of the XXII Olympic Winter Games 
and the XI Paralympic Winter Games in Sochi, which 
achieved the expected high level and tangibly confirmed 
the contribution of sports and the Olympic movement in 
building a more peaceful and happier planet. I also take 
the opportunity to congratulate our Russian colleagues 
on the Russian team’s impressive victory in the final of 
the  78th  Ice  Hockey  World  Championship,  hosted  by 
Belarus in Minsk, in May. The championship in Minsk 
again underscores a simple truth: the politicization of 
sports  events  is  unacceptable  and  contravenes  basic 
sports principles, and it serves no purpose.
We  intend  to  continue  to  actively  support  the 
principles  of  neutrality  and  depoliticization  of  sports 
as a necessary precondition in fully achieving sports’ 
potential for peace and development. We are convinced 
14-57849
15/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
that the politicization of sports and the Olympic Games 
is incompatible with the principles of friendly, civilized 
intergovernmental  relations,  as  well  as  the  ideals  and 
principles of sports and indeed the spirit and letter of 
the Olympic Charter.
engaging more than ever before with political leaders at 
the highest level. Since taking office a little more than 
a  year  ago,  President  Bach  has  met  with  85  Heads  of 
State  and  Government,  and  he  confers  regularly  with 
the Secretary-General. As President Bach has said,
We  wish  Brazil  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  every 
success in preparing and conducting important sports 
events  and  express  the  hope  that  those  events  will  be 
fully  in  keeping  with  the  highest  standards  and  the 
spirit and letter of the Olympic Charter.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  64/3,  of  19  October  2009,  I  now  give  the 
floor  to  the  observer  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee.
Mr. Pescante (International Olympic Committee): 
On  behalf  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee 
(IOC), the supreme authority of the Olympic Movement, 
and in my capacity as Permanent Observer, I welcome 
the opportunity to address the General Assembly today 
to provide our perspective on the role of sport as a tool 
for development and peace.
Allow me to congratulate and thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/69/330) 
outlining  the  many  ways  that  sport  is  contributing 
to  a  better  world  and  the  approaches  that  need  to  be 
strengthened.
With the Olympic Games, the IOC is able to set an 
example  of  global  peaceful  interaction.  The  Olympic 
Games,  the  Olympic  athletes  and  in  particular  the 
Olympic  Village  are  powerful  symbols  of  that.  They 
break down any kind of barrier: political, geographical, 
ethnic, religious and cultural. They serve as an example 
of mutual respect and non-discrimination. They bring 
Olympic values to life and demonstrate their unifying 
power  to  a  global  audience.  The  Olympic  Movement 
cannot  be  truly  successful  unless  we  leverage  that 
positive  power  year-round  and  with  the  support  of 
partners. The past two years have seen many important 
developments  in  that  area,  especially  in  the  strong 
partnership  between  the  IOC  and  the  United  Nations 
and  in  several  joint  initiatives  with  its  agencies  and 
programmes.
the  positive 
The  IOC’s  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations 
demonstrates 
impact  of  effective 
engagement  among  sport,  politics,  culture  and  other 
aspects of society. Sport can change the world, Nelson 
Mandela  said,  but  it  cannot  change  the  world  alone. 
That is why the IOC, under President Thomas Bach, is 
“It  is  time  that  sport  is  no  longer  isolated  from 
politics. We will always be neutral, but we will talk 
with  Governments  and  work  with  organizations 
like the United Nations.”
Those relationships must be built on a foundation 
of mutual respect that protects the autonomy of sport. 
Sport is unique. It is guided by truly universal principles 
that are based on globally recognized ethics: fair play, 
respect  and  friendship.  Government  and  political 
interference  dismantle  that  global  framework  and 
render sport ineffective as a tool for positive change.
In  keeping  with 
in  another  sign  of 
the  emphasis  on  expanded 
engagement,  and 
the  strong 
relationship between the IOC and the United Nations, 
President  Bach  and  the  Secretary-General  signed  an 
historic  agreement  in  April  to  strengthen  cooperation 
between  the  two  organizations.  Among  other  things, 
the  agreement  calls  for  using  sport  to  promote  a 
number  of  social  dimensions,  including  women’s 
empowerment,  inclusion,  healthy  lifestyles  promotion 
and  peacebuilding.  Those  goals  are  embedded  in  the 
Olympic Agenda 2020, our strategic road map that will 
shape the future of the Olympic Movement. The IOC is 
exploring ways to use sport even more effectively as a 
tool for positive change.
In  this  time  of  increased  sedentary  behaviour, 
persistent  inequalities  for  girls  and  women,  rampant 
social  exclusion  and  devastating  conflict,  the  world 
needs  sport  more  than  ever.  We  strongly  encourage 
Governments and other stakeholders to increase access 
to safe and protected sport for all, particularly for girls 
and women, people with disabilities and marginalized 
communities. We strongly encourage others to join the 
IOC in promoting sport and physical activity for health 
and well-being.
Sport and physical activity can help ensure inclusive 
and  equitable  quality  education  and  promote  lifelong 
learning. They encourage school attendance and can help 
teach social skills. We strongly encourage the inclusion 
of  quality  and  age-appropriate  physical  education  in 
school  curricula,  along  with  values  education.  Sport 
can  help  make  cities  and  human  settlements  safe  and 
sustainable. Sport helps steer young people away from 
16/18 
14-57849
20/10/2014 
A/69/PV.28
delinquency and dangerous behaviour. Sport promotes 
social  cohesion  and  helps  lower  health-care  costs. 
We  strongly  encourage  investment  in  sport  facilities, 
infrastructure  and  safe  play  spaces,  which  can  help 
build  active  and  healthy  cities.  Sport  and  physical 
activity  need  to  be  seriously  considered  in  the  post-
2015 development agenda. They provide a meaningful 
way to advancing any future sustainable development 
goals, especially on issues related to health, education 
and community life.
Sport can also contribute to advancing environmental 
protection. The IOC is committed to working with the 
United  Nations  and  other  stakeholders  to  ensure  that 
sport plays a significant role in achieving a sustainable 
approach to development. Environmental considerations 
have  been  included  in  planning  and  organizing  the 
Olympic  Games  for  20  years,  and  we  have  called  on 
other sport organizations to follow that example. This 
year marks the twentieth anniversary of the partnership 
between the IOC and United Nations in that area. The 
partnership  has  most  recently  provided  support  and 
guidance  during  preparations  for  the  Olympic  Winter 
Games in Sochi and for the upcoming Games in Rio in 
2016.
Let  me  not  forget  to  mention  the  importance  of 
sport  to  peacebuilding.  I  want  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  work  on  and  adoption  of  resolution 
68/9  –  the  Olympic  Truce  resolution  –  in  November 
2013,  in  view  of  the  Sochi  Games.  The  steadfast 
and  consistent  support  by  the  United  Nations  of  the 
Olympic  Truce  is  an  excellent  example  of  how  the 
sport movement and Governments can work together to 
advance common goals. The Truce will not bring about 
world  peace,  but  it  sends  a  strong  symbolic  message 
to the entire world. A new consultation process for an 
Olympic  Truce  resolution  urging  an  end  to  conflict 
in  the  context  of  the  2016  Olympic  Games  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro is to start in the coming months, and we hope 
that the General Assembly and all Member States will 
once again unanimously support it.
In all of these initiatives, the IOC is grateful for the 
support and assistance provided by the United Nations 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace 
and its co-Chairs, Ambassadors Picco and Khiari. We 
thank in particular Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special Adviser 
to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace,  and  the  entire  team  at  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  We  are 
naturally extremely grateful to the Secretary-General, 
a true friend of sport and the Olympic Movement. His 
participation at the IOC session in Sochi and his run in 
the Olympic Torch relay is a great sign of the depth of 
his personal commitment.
Together, the IOC and the United Nations are using 
sport  to  improve  lives  and  build  better  communities 
around  the  world.  As  outlined  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General,  we  have  seen  much  progress  over 
the  past  two  years.  The  Secretary-General  has  also 
reminded  us  that  there  is  still  much  more  to  do.  Let 
me reiterate the strong commitment and determination 
of  the  International  Olympic  Committee  to  ensuring 
our  collaboration  to  build  together  a  better  and  more 
peaceful future for the young generations.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 11.
The observer of the Observer State of Palestine has 
requested  the  floor  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I 
remind him that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and to 5 minutes for the second intervention and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Al-Hantouli  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I  speak  in  right  of  reply  on  behalf  of  the  delegation 
of  the  Observer  State  of  Palestine,  in  response  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Israel,  the 
occupying Power.
We would have liked to have been able to come to 
the General Assembly to consider this important agenda 
item and to take stock of the progress and achievements 
we have made within the framework of sport, especially 
its role in development and peace. However, we regret 
the fact that we are experiencing a difficult phase, with 
the  Israeli  occupation  dominating  all  aspects  of  life, 
including sport.
The  occupying  Power  hampers  the  development 
and maintenance of sport infrastructure, for example. 
It  hampers  the  movement  of  athletes,  technicians 
and, of course, spectators. If we want to organize any 
Palestinian sport activities in the territory of Palestine, 
that involves a decision that is hostage to the vagaries of 
Israel’s mood at the time. In most cases, Israel attempts 
to ensure that the majority of Palestinian sport events 
or activities do not happen. Israel’s violations of human 
rights in general, and the rights of athletes in particular, 
are ongoing.
14-57849
17/18
A/69/PV.28 
20/10/2014
Recently,  during  the  war  against  Gaza,  such 
violations  took  place,  and  we  lost  a  number  of  our 
athletes, for example, the athlete and recognized trainer 
Aahid  Zaqout.  Mohamed  Bakr,  age  9,  Atef  Bakr,  age 
10,  Zakaria  Bakr,  age  10,  and  Mohamed  Ramez,  age 
11, could have participated alongside Ahmed in sports 
activities,  including  with  Israeli  children.  However, 
the  occupying  Power  decided  otherwise  and  killed 
them  while  they  were  engaged  in  sport  activities  on 
the beaches of Gaza. Those children are proof that the 
culture of life is something that is deeply rooted in our 
spirit and in our adults and children. Unfortunately, the 
occupying  Power  continues  to  destroy  all  initiatives 
or  means  aimed  at  achieving  development  and  peace 
in Palestine. Sport is no exception here. Sport, too, is 
destroyed.
Munich  was  was  a  one-time  occurrence.  It  will 
not  be  repeated.  Israel’s  practices  –  its  massacres  of 
the Palestinian people, including athletes – have gone 
on  now  for  66  years.  In  that  time,  Israel  has  broken 
all  records  when  it  comes  to  human  rights  violations. 
They  have  won  every  gold  medal  and  trophy  in  that 
category. Israel, the occupying Power, will not put an 
end to its practices until the international community 
takes up its responsibilities with regard to that country, 
which practices terrorism, for we have not asked it to be 
responsible for its actions.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 11.
The meeting rose at 12 noon.
18/18 
14-57849
