United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
13th plenary meeting
Friday, 26 September 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Baaro 
(Kiribati), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Address by Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, 
President of the Federal Republic of Somalia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Somalia.
Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Somalia, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Somalia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mohamud:  It  is  a  pleasure  to  join  the 
Assembly  today.  Yesterday  a  journalist  asked  me  to 
describe Somalia in 15 seconds. First, let me say that 
Somalis are great storytellers, so asking a Somali to say 
anything in 15 seconds is very difficult. I really had to 
think about where to begin. I told him that if he could 
think of a problem, then Somalia has it, and often at the 
same time as other problems — war, piracy, extremist 
terrorist groups, famine, droughts, floods. But that was 
the  Somalia  of  yesterday,  not  the  Somalia  of  today. 
I  fear  that  many  people’s  experience  of  Somalia  is 
confined to films — such as the recent Captain Phillips
and re-runs of Black Hawk Down — or YouTube scenes 
of the horrific Westgate Mall incident in Kenya, or an 
ever-growing  number  of  titles  on  library  bookshelves 
that  include  the  words  “failed  State”,  or  references  to 
a  long  war.  But  if  we  shrink  our  perspective  to  just 
that glimpse, we miss the beauty of the very different 
picture that we are painting right now in Somalia. The 
Somalia I lead as President is a very different country. 
My Somalia is not a 15-second summary of problems. 
It is not a Somalia of failure.
We  may  still  be  fragile,  but  we  are  no  longer  a 
broken  State.  September  of  2012  marked  a  milestone 
for  Somalia  with  the  establishment  of  a  new  Federal 
Government built on national consensus and universally 
recognized by the international community. At its start, 
the  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  faced  multiple 
complex challenges, a stark lack of resources and only 
very basic institutional and Government structures. The 
country was divided, with no clear path to unification. 
Al-Shabaab and other militia groups controlled most of 
our territory. The task ahead of us was daunting and the 
expectations from both our people and our international 
partners  were  very  high.  Everything  was  a  priority, 
from  security  to  political  inclusivity,  and  from  health 
care  and  education  to  private-sector  development  and 
basic economic reform.
We  faced  the  significant  challenge  of  having  to 
build frameworks and institutions while simultaneously 
delivering immediate, tangible benefits for our people, 
in the form of schools, hospitals, roads and more. We had 
to deliver on that long list of interrelated priorities while 
simultaneously  dealing  with  a  politically  fragmented 
environment  and  fighting  a  war  against  terrorist 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54942 (E)
*1454942*
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
groups. And we have succeeded. The foundation for the 
future has been laid through our clear military defeat 
of  Al-Shabaab,  which  has  been  made  possible  only 
through the joint efforts of the Somali National Army 
and the African Union Mission to Somalia. More than 
70 per cent of Somalia’s southern and central regions 
has now been liberated from the scourge of Al-Shabaab 
and restored to the control of the Federal Government 
of Somalia.
Over the past two years we have focused on building 
foundations  and  laying  the  groundwork  for  reform. 
We  have  developed  legal  frameworks,  governance 
structures  and  public  financial  management  reform 
processes.  We  have  formalized  Somalia’s  presence 
in  the  international  community,  strengthened  our 
relationships with neighbouring countries, restructured 
key  institutions,  established  forums  for  dialogue, 
developed a path for political reform and put in place 
the architecture for linking international support to our 
priorities through the New Deal Somali Compact.
We  have  made  major  progress 
in  reforming 
public  financial  management,  putting  in  place  better 
accountability  measures,  controls  and  governance 
structures.  Key  legislation  has  been  drafted,  budget 
policy developed and the capacity of the offices of the 
Accountant General and Auditor General strengthened. 
An annual budget, developed with the implementation 
of Government-wide work plans and priorities in mind, 
has  been  delivered.  A  new  governor  and  board  of 
directors have been appointed for the Central Bank of 
Somalia, which we launched from scratch. A financial 
governance committee, constituting an advisory body 
held jointly by the Federal Government and international 
financial  institutions,  has  been  established  to  provide 
greater 
financial 
transactions in Somalia.
transparency  and  oversight  of 
We can take heart in the fact that distinct progress 
has  been  made  in  moving  the  country  from  failed-
State status to that of a nascent nation with functioning 
institutions. Today, in September 2014, I am confidently 
able to say that, with the support of the Somali people 
and  the  engagement  of  the  international  community, 
Somalia  has  undergone  a  remarkable  transformation. 
Today we have a country that is beginning to unite as 
a nation, behind a vision that in 2016 will see a federal 
and  united  Somalia,  a  Somalia  that  will  meet  our 
aspirations for a better future.
But we cannot rest there. Somalia has always had 
an enormous capacity for playing a long game, and now 
more  than  ever  we  must  stay  our  course.  Somalia  is 
at  a  critical  juncture  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  security 
and stability. This past year has seen a rise in terrorist 
groups and activities around the world. Today, the reach 
of terrorists is not confined to one country; it is a global 
issue that requires global action. More than any other 
fragile State today, Somalia has significantly advanced 
in its fight against terrorism. We are winning the war, 
but we must also win the peace. President Obama spoke 
earlier  this  week  of  being  at  a  crossroads  of  war  and 
peace  (see  A/69/PV.5).  As  Somalis,  we  know  better 
than  any  other  nation  the  truth  of  that  statement.  We 
are at that juncture.
That is why we know that solutions cannot be only 
military in nature. Yesterday we were reminded of the 
origins behind the establishment of the United Nations. 
We  were  reminded  of  the  power  of  peaceful  political 
reconciliation.  Military  intervention  can  end  war,  but 
it  cannot  propagate  peace.  Dialogue,  reconciliation, 
forgiveness — those are the tools of peacebuilders, the 
tools of nation-builders.
As President of Somalia, I reaffirm our commitment 
to  denying  extremist  ideology  and  its  servants  any 
hiding  place  in  Somalia.  Somalia’s  strategic  location 
makes it a gateway between the Arabian peninsula and 
the  African  continent.  We  cannot  defeat  Al-Shabaab 
only  to  allow  other  extremists,  such  as  the  militant 
group known as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, to 
find fertile ground. Although the security situation in 
Somalia  is  improving  and  Al-Shabaab  is  becoming  a 
spent force, we cannot afford to rest until we achieve 
a  final  victory.  We  must  strengthen  Somalia  and 
make it into a firewall, both for security purposes and 
ideologically. Somalia must be strengthened in order to 
prevent  the  African  continent  from  being  once  again 
invaded  by  violent  extremists  who  target  innocent 
civilians, spreading their ideology of death. Solutions 
must  be  sought  by  applying  the  rule  of  law,  pursuing 
human  rights  and  affording  access  to  justice.  People 
must be allowed to determine their own future and to 
find their own place in that brilliant future.
We  must  not  forget  the  importance  of  political 
reconciliation  and  reform  in  maintaining  long-term 
stability  and  creating  an  enabling  environment  for 
development  gains.  Two  years  ago,  it  quickly  became 
clear that the formation of a unified and federal Somalia 
was the key to delivering peace and building sustainable 
security.  The  Vision  2016  framework  was  developed 
to  encapsulate  that  important  national  goal.  Vision 
2/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
2016  outlines  the  framework  for  federalism  through 
reconciliation,  the  adoption  of  a  revised  permanent 
constitution  through  a  referendum  and  the  path  to 
democratic  elections.  It  is  a  tall  order  that  cannot  be 
overstated.
The Federal Government has undertaken to revise 
our  Provisional  Constitution  by  2016  and  adopt  it  by 
means of a public referendum. We have undertaken to 
deliver a federal Somalia made up of member states. We 
have undertaken to deliver credible, national elections. 
We  have  not  failed  on  the  side  of  ambition,  and  we 
must  not  fail  to  deliver  on  our  ambition.  And  we  are 
delivering.  Led  by  the  Federal  Government,  together 
with  existing  and  emerging  regional  stakeholders 
inside  Somalia,  we  have  made  significant  progress  in 
the  formation  of  interim  regional  administrations  in 
the south-west and central regions of Somalia through 
dialogue and consultations.
The  Constitution  Review  and  Implementation 
Commission was set up in May 2014 and started work 
on  reviewing  the  current  Provisional  Constitution  of 
Somalia. The approval and adoption of the Provisional 
Constitution 
inclusive  political 
settlement that paves the way for sustainable security 
and development in Somalia.
is  critical 
to  an 
In  order  to  create  a  federal  State,  it  will  be 
essential to ensure the full participation of subfederal 
administrations  in  the  political  transformation  of 
Somalia. The Boundaries and Federation Commission 
will  be  established  and  will  devise  the  mechanisms 
for supporting the process of federating Somalia. The 
National  Independent  Electoral  Commission  will  be 
endorsed by Parliament by the end of 2014. The Federal 
Government  is  committed  to  inclusivity  and,  while 
observing the principles of Somali-Somali dialogue, is 
taking concrete steps to engage all Somalis, including 
women  and  minority  groups,  in  the  political  process 
of  nation-building.  We  have  seen  great  progress  in 
connecting the Government to the Somali public, thanks 
to the improvement of service delivery, particularly in 
the  area  of  education.  In  two  years  we  have  enrolled 
close  to  100,000  students  in  public  schools  and 
appointed 2,000 teachers.
We are investing in the strengthening of our Somali 
national  forces.  The  Somali  National  Army  is  a  key 
element in defeating Al-Shabaab, and we are working 
with our international partners to ensure that we have 
a well-trained, well-equipped, integrated national army 
and other defence institutions in place, so that Somalia 
will one day be well able to defend its own peace and 
participate in international peace.
However,  it  grieves  me  to  report  today  that 
the  humanitarian  situation  in  Somalia  is  extremely 
critical.  About  3.2  million  Somalis  need  life-saving 
or  livelihood  assistance  right  now.  A  terrible  mix  of 
drought,  rising  food  prices,  increasing  malnutrition 
and insecurity is plunging Somalia into a humanitarian 
crisis not dissimilar to the horrific famine of 2011. Out 
of a population of 12.3 million in Somalia, more than 
1 million people face acute food insecurity today and an 
equal number of people are internally displaced. Three 
months ago the humanitarian community and the Federal 
Government  sounded  the  alarm  about  the  impending 
crisis.  Humanitarian  response  plans  were  prepared 
and launched. Swift action by the Federal Government 
to  set  up  an  interim  interministerial  committee  and 
interventions  with  humanitarian  partners  and  donors 
has mitigated the current crisis. However, a sustained 
and  scaled-up  response  is  required  now  to  prevent  a 
free fall. The humanitarian appeal for Somalia remains 
severely underfunded. Only 32 per cent of the requested 
$933 million has been received. This situation must be 
addressed  urgently.  As  we  enter  the  last  third  of  the 
year,  more  than  half  a  billion  dollars  is  still  required 
for  life-saving  activities.  Over  the  past  18  months, 
Somalia  has  seen  a  significant  amount  of  progress  in 
its political, economic and development sectors. If the 
current humanitarian situation deteriorates into a crisis, 
all those gains will be undermined. We have come too 
far to allow that to happen.
It  is  clear  that,  despite  challenges,  Somalia  is 
moving forward on the path of integration, inclusivity 
and  peace.  We  are  leaving  behind  the  disorder  and 
discord  spread  by  a  distorted  ideology.  I  was  told 
a  remarkable  story  recently,  a  true  story  that  I  think 
illustrates perfectly the power of reconciliation and the 
triumph of compassion over brutality. One of our Somali 
non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  is  running  a 
social reconciliation programme in some remote areas 
of Somalia. It consists of 12 weeks of intense facilitated 
discussions  about  truth,  designed  to  disrupt  the  cycle 
of  violence  and  create  a  safe  space  where  people  can 
tell  their  stories  and,  through  that  exercise,  nurture 
understanding. A young man whose family had moved 
to  another  country  when  his  father  was  murdered  by 
another man from his village heard of the programme. 
He heard that the Somali NGO was training programme 
14-54942
3/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
facilitators, people who would be able to move freely 
from one village to another and teach others the way of 
peace and reconciliation. Rather than as an opportunity 
to pursue peace, this young man, filled with anger at his 
father’s murder, saw it as the ideal way for him to exact 
revenge.  He  would  return  to  Somalia,  undertake  the 
training course, gain access to his family’s old village 
under a false pretext, and while there he would kill his 
father’s murderer.
He  therefore  came  home  to  Somalia,  bought  a 
weapon, underwent the training and went to the village. 
He  made  sure  that  his  father’s  murderer  attended  the 
training,  while  harbouring  the  destruction  of  his 
father’s enemy in his heart. But then, something started 
to happen. As he helped the villagers tell their stories of 
violence, of the endless cycle of horror, of the terrible 
choices  they  had  had  to  make,  his  heart  softened.  He 
understood that any choice that involved violence was a 
not a choice at all. One day he stood up at the training 
centre, addressed his father’s murderer, explained that 
he had plotted to kill him and begged his forgiveness.
In a way, this one man’s story echoes the national 
history that we are beginning to tell in Somalia today, 
namely, that our future will not be built on the ashes of 
revenge. It will not be built on the stones of violence. 
We  reaffirm  our  choice  of  peace.  We  reaffirm  that 
reconciliation,  the  path  that  we  have  chosen,  will  be 
won  through  dialogue,  through  inclusive  politics, 
through creating a shared vision of what Somalia can 
be  in  the  future.  Our  success  requires  the  support  of 
our  international  partners,  but  most  of  all  it  demands 
the  ownership  and  the  commitment  of  the  Somali 
people, which we are assuring. As we continue towards 
democratization, now is not the time for scepticism. We 
have laid out our plans, and we need to stand together 
to execute and deliver.
Mr.  Antoine  (Grenada),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Our  achievements  and  progress  have  been  made 
possible  by  the  determination  of  the  Somali  people. 
We  welcome  and  acknowledge  the  strong  support 
of  our  international  partners  and  look  forward  to 
their  continuing  engagement  behind  our  nationally 
led  agenda.  I  acknowledge  the  commitment  and 
the  sacrifice  of  our  Somali  defence  institutions  and 
grieve  the  loss  of  our  soldiers  and  security  staff  who 
died  in  pursuit  of  peace.  I  renew  my  commitment  to 
serve  the  Somali  people.  Somalia  is  indebted  to  their 
resilience and perseverance in the face of extraordinary 
challenges. Somalis look forward to walking, together 
with  the  nations  assembled  here,  towards  a  peaceful, 
prosperous future for the nation call Somalia. We are 
very much indebted to the family of the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federal 
Republic of Somalia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  President  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President 
of the Republic of Serbia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Nikolić  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  congratulate  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa on his assumption of the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I am convinced that 
his international prestige and experience will make an 
important  contribution  to  the  crafting  of  sustainable 
political  solutions  to  the  new  global  challenges  that 
lie  ahead  of  us.  I  would  also  like  to  convey  Serbia’s 
readiness to address and provide unequivocal support 
to the resolution of priorities relative to climate change, 
an  integrated  global  economy,  international  security 
issues and all other topics included in the agenda that 
we will actively pursue.
I  should  like  to  express  my  special  thanks  to 
outgoing President, Mr. John Ashe, for his efforts and 
successful work during the sixty-eighth session of the 
General Assembly, which laid down the foundations for 
the post-2015 sustainable development agenda, as well 
as  for  his  endeavours  to  strengthen  the  purposes  and 
principles of the United Nations.
The  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  being  held  at  a  time  when  we  mark  an  important 
anniversary,  100  years  having  elapsed  since  the 
4/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
outbreak  of  the  Great  War,  a  war  which  shaped  the 
twentieth century. The anniversary was commemorated 
at  different  places,  but,  regrettably,  no  common 
ceremony  at  the  highest  level  was  organized  in  the 
spirit of reconciliation and forgiveness.
Serbia  strongly  supports  the  General  Assembly 
agenda for the sixty-ninth session and sees itself as an 
active  partner  and  participant  in  the  implementation 
of  United  Nations  development  goals.  The  world  is 
faced  with  new  security,  climate  and  socioeconomic 
challenges. We need to do much work together to ensure 
humankind’s  progress  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
Serbia  offers  its  experiences  and  ideas  for  global 
management, so that we can ensure a better future for 
new generations all over the world.
Allow  me  to  consider  three  of  today’s  most 
pressing global challenges that concern not just Serbia 
but  all  of  us  —  climate  change,  global  security  and 
deadly infectious diseases of vast proportions. I believe 
that, if not addressed wisely and systematically, those 
challenges could put the survival of future generations 
in jeopardy.
Socioeconomic  interrelatedness  accounts  for  the 
disappearance of the old division into “us” and “them”. 
All  of  us,  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
share the same destiny and shoulder equal responsibility 
for the problems that directly face humankind. One of 
the  urgent  global  challenges  that  we  are  confronting 
is  climate  change.  At  the  Climate  Summit  2014,  in 
which I participated with great interest, we discussed 
the historic chance that we shall have at the upcoming 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in  Paris 
in 2015. Consensus among scientists indicates that the 
global  temperatures  in  the  twenty-first  century  will 
rise  dramatically.  Extreme  weather  conditions  will 
increase, with a frequency that depends on the intensity 
of  global  warming.  Inexorably,  the  effects  of  natural 
disasters  aggravate  the  fragile  economic  situation  in 
Serbia and the region of South-East Europe and make 
the struggle against poverty ever more difficult. That 
struggle remains the quintessential challenge facing the 
world today.
Activities  aimed  at  alleviating  the  consequences 
of  climate  change  are  the  imperative  of  our  age.  In 
determining  binding  measures,  surely  we  should 
take  account  of  the  development  needs  of  poor  and 
underdeveloped  countries.  I  am  convinced  that  the 
Assembly shares my opinion that there is a need to act, 
as soon as possible, to improve adaptation systems and 
to  establish  mechanisms  for  lowering  the  risks  posed 
by  natural  disasters.  I  therefore  view  this  year  as  an 
opportunity to kick off intensive activities in devising 
climate policy and encouraging countries to commit to 
reducing carbon emissions. We have a historic chance to 
devise an energy policy that is sustainable and provides 
for substantive global action on climate change policy. I 
am convinced that we all share the view that it is urgent 
and  obligatory  to  improve  the  adaptation  system  and 
set up mechanisms for reducing the enormous risks of 
natural disasters. Serbia wishes to contribute to reaching 
a legally binding, general consent on climate for all the 
peoples of the world. I believe that the Green Climate 
Fund  should  play  an  important  role  in  the  process  of 
implementing the agreed principles. By 2020, it should 
achieve its ambitious goal and fulfil the commitments 
we have made for the sake of humankind.
This  year,  I  witnessed,  and  my  country  was  a 
victim  of,  extreme  weather  conditions  in  Europe. 
Unfortunately, Serbia and its neighbours in the region 
were  subjected  to  natural  disasters  as  a  consequence 
of climate change. Serbia was and is vulnerable these 
days, all over again, to floods of biblical proportions. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
the  United  Nations  for  its  extensive  and  efficient 
engagement  and  cooperation  with  the  Government  of 
Serbia  in  the  aftermath  of  the  floods.  In  particular,  I 
would like to thank French President François Hollande 
for heeding my call to convene a donors conference to 
help Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. I would also 
like to thank the European Commission, the members 
of the European Union, the Russian Federation, China, 
Japan, Belarus, African countries and the countries of 
the region for their assistance and engagement. Without 
their generous bilateral assistance, we would not have 
been  able  to  help  everyone  in  dire  need.  Short  of  the 
selfless  assistance  of  Member  States,  we  would  not 
have  been  able  to  help  the  affected  people,  many  of 
whom  lost  everything  they  had  acquired  during  their 
lifetime.
The  national  priority  of  Serbia  is  to  achieve  a 
sustainable political solution on the question of Kosovo 
and Metohija. For Serbia, the only acceptable, fair and 
just solution is to reject secessionism and preserve the 
territorial integrity of every country, including Serbia. 
Serbia  therefore  is  clearly  committed  to  the  quest  for 
a  sustainable  political  solution  through  dialogue  with 
representatives of the Provisional Institutions of Self-
14-54942
5/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
Government  in  Pristina.  The  political  solution  that 
Serbia  advocates  comprehends  the  interests  of  the 
Serbian,  Albanian  and  other  populations.  It  will  be 
a  durable  political  solution  that  is  satisfactory  to  all 
parties, and we can reach it only through constructive 
dialogue.
The  normalization  of  relations  between  Belgrade 
and Pristina is contributing to the process of European 
integration. We expect the European Union to continue 
to encourage, through its active engagement, an open 
dialogue and compliance with agreed-on obligations in 
order to strengthen mutual trust. Serbia has complied, 
responsibly and on time, with all the obligations it has 
undertaken  to  date  regarding  the  implementation  of 
the Brussels Agreement. I would like to point out that 
Serbia is open to continuing constructive dialogue with 
Pristina at every level.
In  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution 
1244 (1999), the United Nations Interim Administration 
Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) is the guarantor and the 
basis  for  action  by  all  other  international  missions 
in  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  For  Serbia,  a  reduction  in 
UNMIK’s  mandate  and  competencies  in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija  is  unacceptable.  In  its  negotiations  with  the 
Provisional Institutions of Self-Government in Pristina, 
Serbia proceeds from the premise that all solutions must 
be  in  accordance  with  the  Constitution  of  Serbia  and 
resolution 1244 (1999). That concerns questions having 
to do with the province’s status, the position of Serbs 
and other non-Albanians in the province, and protection 
of the Serbian religious and cultural heritage.
Our  approach  to  the  search  for  a  sustainable 
political solution for Kosovo and Metohija has broader 
political implications. I believe we can all agree that the 
creation of conditions for the enjoyment of basic human 
rights  and  minority  rights  would  not  only  promote 
the  return  of  the  displaced  population  but  would  also 
provide  a  model  for  political  dialogue  and  toleration, 
the  assumptions  of  today’s  world  and  the  policies  of 
peace that the United Nations spearheads.
Creating optimal conditions for internally displaced 
persons to return to their homes is the key factor in the 
process of normalizing relations between Belgrade and 
Pristina.  I  would  like  to  recall  that  everything  began 
with  the  acts  of  terror  committed  by  the  Albanian 
minority  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija  aimed  at  achieving 
their secessionist ambitions. Today, 15 years after the 
adoption of resolution 1244 (1999) — by which we ceded 
administration of the province of Kosovo and Metohija 
to  the  United  Nations  —  the  conditions  conducive  to 
returning  internally  displaced  persons  to  Kosovo  and 
Metohija  have  still  not  been  created,  something  that 
is  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  regular  reports 
on UNMIK’s work and in the reports of the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR)  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human 
rights of internally displaced persons.
Serbia  has 
the 
largest  number  of 
internally 
displaced persons of any country in Europe, a total of 
230,000.  They  must  not  remain  mere  statistics.  They 
must not be forgotten. There are 58,000 refugees living 
in Serbia, 42,000 from Croatia and 16,000 from Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  I  believe  refugees  deserve  special 
attention  from  the  United  Nations  and  UNHCR.  The 
marginalization  of  the  serious  problems  that  those 
vulnerable  people  face  should  be  condemned  rather 
than  ignored.  The  issue  of  basic  human  rights  is  a 
universal one, respected by every State Member of the 
United Nations. Any hasty decision on the issue would 
be  a  mistake,  since  it  could  undermine  the  region’s 
reconciliation  processes,  which  are  not  yet  fully 
formed,  as  well  as  the  fundamental  right  of  Serbs  to 
return  to  their  homes  in  Kosovo,  Croatia,  and  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
Serbia  has  taken  a  step  forward  into  the  future, 
and  wishes  to  make  an  active  contribution  to  global 
economic  progress,  the  suppression  of  crime  and 
corruption, and the quest for a solution to all matters 
of international security. Membership in the European 
Union is our foreign policy priority. Like any other form 
of international association, the European Union falls 
short of achieving ideal solutions and is saddled with its 
own challenges and issues relating to its enlargement, 
but  it  is  still  the  best  community  of  European  States. 
Serbia’s place is with its members so that it can fully 
modernize  its  society  and  State  and  further  develop 
its economic capacities. The clear goal we aspire to is 
to build Serbia into a respected member of the family 
of European nations, and our progress in membership 
negotiations will contribute to that.
Serbia  is  preparing  to  assume  the  chairmanship 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (OSCE)  next  year.  That  role  and  task  present 
my country with complex, multilateral challenges, but 
we  are  ready  for  them,  and  we  have  been  preparing 
in  collaboration  with  Switzerland  in  positive  and 
constructive  cooperation.  Serbia  will  use  the  OSCE 
chairmanship  to  encourage  and  strengthen  mutual 
6/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
cooperation  among  the  countries  in  the  region.  The 
Balkan  countries  have  made  immense  progress  in 
recent  years  and  have  developed  substantial  and 
comprehensive  mutual  cooperation.  Serbia  will  make 
every effort to see that the process of reconciliation and 
cooperation  and  mutual  respect  is  fully  implemented 
throughout the region. The chairmanship will also be 
used to encourage those processes.
We  are  deeply  disturbed  and  alarmed  by  the 
events in Ukraine and will do everything in our power 
to  help  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  problem  and 
overcome  differences  peacefully.  Our  Slav  brothers 
deserve  peace  and  tranquil  development,  along  with 
respect  for  those  universal  principles  that  should  be 
accorded all countries and peoples and that are clearly 
defined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Serbia 
respects the territorial integrity of Ukraine as a United 
Nations  Member,  and  the  equitable  implementation 
of  international  law.  I  recall  that  some  countries 
denied Serbia that right through their recognition and 
promotion of the independence of a part of the territory 
of Serbia — Kosovo and Metohija.
The principles of safeguarding peace and security, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  crises  and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Member States are the bases on which the Republic of 
Serbia will cooperate in the search for solutions to the 
various political and security challenges in the world. At 
the global level, therefore, we support all efforts by the 
United Nations and its Member States and by regional 
organizations to find diplomatic solutions to the world’s 
most sensitive security issues. With its broad political 
experience and bold leadership, Serbia can contribute, 
through  dialogue  with  friends,  partners  and  Member 
States, to devising solutions to the disagreements that 
threaten to disunite the world all over again.
Serbia 
is  making  a  concrete  contribution 
to 
maintaining  international  peace  by  participating  in 
United  Nations  and  European  Union  peacekeeping 
operations. Thanks to that work and to our cooperation 
with allies and partners, the region is more stable than 
it was 15 years ago. I would point out that we support 
every initiative aimed at modifying and adapting peace 
operations to new security challenges. Serbia calls for 
strengthening  regional  cooperation  and  harmonizing 
approaches to the activities of peacekeeping missions.
Serbia’s new policy has fostered sincere and fully 
transparent relations in South-Eastern Europe. That was 
particularly  evident  during  the  disastrous  floods  that 
struck Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The 
solidarity and magnanimity shown then set an example 
for the entire world. Today our region is teeming with 
investment  opportunities,  and  a  strong  and  peaceful 
South-Eastern Europe is synonymous with a strong and 
stable Europe as a whole.
the  security  problems 
Serbia  has  experienced  acts  of  terrorism  on 
its  territory  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  We  therefore 
understand  very  well 
the 
world  is  facing.  We  firmly  condemn  every  form  of 
terrorism.  We  are  ready  to  discuss  any  initiative 
that  can  contribute  to  strengthening  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  combating  that  global  evil.  Serbia 
has  achieved  significant  success  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism, especially at the regional level, and is ready 
to lend its experience and knowledge to help strengthen 
other States’ counter-terrorism capacities.
Serbia has never supported and will never support 
the language of ultimatums. We honour and respect the 
political and economic interests of all Member States, 
and our approach and actions in protecting our national 
and  international  interests  are  predicated  on  those 
positions.
Serbia most strongly condemns the crimes committed 
by  the  members  of  the  extremist  organization  of  the 
Islamic  State,  particularly  the  brutal  murders.  Such 
forms of terrorism pose one of the most serious threats 
to  international  peace  and  security,  and  Serbia  is 
committed more than ever to supporting international 
efforts in the fight against terrorism.
The  rapid  rise  of  the  Islamic  State  and  its  ability 
to  attract  fighters  from  all  over  the  world  has  caught 
the  attention  of  the  international  community.  One  of 
the main questions facing the world is the problem of 
foreign  fighters  recruited  by  terrorist  organizations 
such as the Islamic State and Al-Qaida. According to 
research conducted by the International Centre for the 
Study of Radicalization and Political Violence, based in 
London,  the  most  significant  regions  outside  Western 
Europe  and  the  Middle  East  for  the  recruitment  of 
foreign  fighters  are  the  Balkans  and  the  countries  of 
the former Soviet Union. The data on foreign fighters 
for the Balkans vary: up to 140 recruits from Albania 
and as many as 60 from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The 
numbers are somewhat smaller from Macedonia — up 
to  20.  From  Serbia  there  have  been  three  and  from 
Bulgaria  one,  while  the  number  from  our  province 
14-54942
7/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
of  Kosovo  and  Metohija  is  as  high  as  150.  It  must  be 
stopped.
We  face  new  global  challenges  that  call  for 
creative  responses,  global  partnership  and  flexibility. 
Serbia  is  unreservedly  committed  to  the  principles 
of  multilateral  cooperation  and  to  strengthening  the 
principles  and  system  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
context,  we  consider  the  process  of  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations system a historic chance to demonstrate 
our consistent support for the idea of building consensus 
among  Member  States  on  all  key  issues.  Serbia  is 
ready  for  constructive  cooperation  and  respect  for  all 
participants  in  the  dialogue,  which  will  contribute  to 
the  greater  efficiency  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
Serbia supports the reform of the Security Council.
Serbia will do its utmost to help bring solutions to 
global security problems and sustainable development. 
Traditionally,  Serbia  has  supported  the  multilateral 
approach in the field of disarmament and arms control, 
proceeding from the conviction that in a world of rising 
interdependence  and  complexity,  common  challenges 
call for common solutions.
It  is  with  great  concern  that  we  follow  the 
developments related to the rapid spread of the Ebola 
virus in the countries of Western Africa. We extend our 
condolences  to  the  Presidents  and  peoples  of  Liberia, 
Guinea  and  Sierra  Leone  for  the  great  number  of 
victims.  The  disease,  unprecedented  in  the  extent  of 
its  transmission  and  its  high  mortality  rate,  threatens 
to cause one of the biggest humanitarian crises of the 
world today and calls for immediate collective action, 
since it is a problem that belongs to all of us. It is very 
important in this situation that States Members of the 
United Nations have recognized the magnitude of the 
problem  and  have  supported  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal  to  establish  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Ebola Emergency Response. Serbia is ready to join in 
and contribute to the collective effort with its scientific 
and medical capacities and in any other way.
The world has changed, but for the poorest it has 
remained the same. The greater instability of developing 
countries  is  a  clear  indicator  that  they  continue  to  be 
in  need  of  assistance.  The  international  community 
must therefore pay appropriate attention to that group 
of  countries,  primarily  through  financial  support,  the 
development  of  new  technologies  and  the  training  of 
human  resources.  Those  are  measures  meant  to  lead 
to the eradication of poverty and the strengthening of 
institutions.
For Serbia, the top priority is poverty eradication, 
but  the  goals  of  inclusive  education,  health,  gender 
equality,  sustainable  energy  and, 
in  particular, 
sustainable economic growth and employment are just 
as important. Jump-starting the economy is the mission 
to  which  we  shall  devote  the  greatest  attention  in  the 
coming period, although always mindful of the issues 
I have mentioned, in order to ensure prosperity for all 
our citizens.
We  must  acknowledge 
the  higher  degree  of 
socioeconomic  interlinkage  that  exists  if  we  are  to 
come up with fresh ideas. We must design new ways to 
overcome the current crises in global management and 
study  our  options  for  formulating  and  implementing 
political solutions.
Serbia stands united with the leaders of the entire 
world in the endeavour aimed at bringing prosperity to 
humankind. That is a responsibility that we all share. 
Not only can we achieve much by working together, but 
we  can  achieve  much  more  together.  That  is  why  the 
establishment of a united, global front around the idea 
of  the  common  destiny  and  interests  of  humankind, 
which we all share, should be the first step that we, the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  must  make  as 
we attempt to solve new global challenges.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Serbia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, President 
of the Republic of Haiti
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly, 
President of the Republic of Haiti, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Martelly  (spoke  in  French):  Since  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  was  adopted  in  San 
8/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
Francisco,  the  international  community  has  made  it  a 
true act of faith in setting up a new international order 
based on the ideals and values   that elevate human dignity 
and encourage sustainable development and solidarity 
among peoples. It is an honour for me to speak before 
the  General  Assembly,  convened  for  nearly  70  years, 
to  address  key  issues  of  justice,  universal  peace  and 
security.
hotbeds of international tension persist, the enlightened 
Powers  of  our  planet  must  unite  to  preserve  peace, 
democracy,  stability,  human  rights  and  development. 
In  that  context,  in  line  with  the  new  realities  of  this 
century, Haiti argues strongly for concrete progress in 
the negotiations for United Nations reform, particularly 
with regard to the enlargement of the Security Council 
to include new permanent members.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  send  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa 
my  warmest  congratulations  on  his  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. His proven experience on international issues 
and  the  United  Nations  system  is  a  guarantee  of  the 
success of the work that will be taken up at this session. 
He can be assured of the full cooperation of the Haitian 
delegation.
I  commend  the  remarkable  work  of  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon.  I  pay  special  tribute  to  him 
for his courage and commitment to the cause of peace 
worldwide.  As  humanitarian  crises  and  conflicts 
between  States  threaten  the  stability  and  security  of 
peoples of the world, the Secretary-General’s leadership 
has  repeatedly  demonstrated  that  there  is  always  a 
way  to  resolve  our  differences  through  dialogue, 
understanding and mutual respect.
That  is  why  I  encourage  the  United  Nations  to 
continue  to  support  the  good  relations  between  the 
parties  on  both  sides  of  the  Taiwan  Strait  and  the 
peaceful  and  constructive  approaches  to  establish 
lasting peace in East Asia and the East China Sea.
We in the Caribbean have chosen to take the path 
of dialogue with our neighbour to the east for the good 
of  our  two  peoples  and  in  order  to  preserve  peace  in 
the  region.  We  believe  in  the  power  of  dialogue.  We 
are  convinced  that  it  is  always  necessary  to  engage 
in  negotiation  and  productive  discussions.  We  readily 
agreed to come to the negotiating table with our friends 
from the Dominican Republic to set out the real problens 
of  mutual  interest  for  the  benefit  of  our  two  peoples 
and to resolve half-century-old misunderstandings. We 
welcome  the  fact  that  a  number  of  agreements  have 
been  reached  on  issues  that  were  not  always  easy  to 
resolve.  We  hope  to  be  able  to  continue  on  that  path 
towards a better understanding between two States that 
share the same island.
Despite a challenging route, 70 years later it is clear 
that this common project that is the United Nations has 
lost nothing of its topicality and relevance. At a time when 
The  example  of  inclusion  must  begin  where  the 
right to participation is a fundamental right expressed 
through the Charter of the United Nations. Our voice 
counts.  Our  leadership,  being  responsible,  must  be 
expressed through concrete and tangible actions when 
peace, the health of our environment and the health of 
our people are threatened. In that connection, I wish to 
pay tribute to our Cuban brothers, among other peoples 
of  the  world,  who  have  supported  African  countries 
affected by Ebola.
As much as we have a moral responsibility to raise 
our voice against injustice whatever its origin, against 
fanaticism,  to  reject  repression  and  violence  in  all  its 
forms  and  to  fight  discrimination  and  prejudices  that 
hinder  solidarity  among  peoples,  we  also  have  an 
obligation to recognize and encourage efforts to unite 
people.
The  legitimacy  and  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  depends  upon  its  ability  to  act  quickly  and 
respond  effectively  in  recognizing  the  added  value  of 
each  Member  State.  More  than  ever,  problems  must 
be  addressed  pragmatically.  That  is  an  urgent  matter 
in  these  times  of  political  tensions  on  a  global  scale 
and  of  the  spread  of  some  diseases  that  are  just  as 
devastating.  Moreover,  the  international  community 
is greatly challenged by the resurgence of a brutal and 
fanatical  international  terrorism  in  a  new  form.  The 
United Nations is and remains today our best defence 
against those challenges through respect for the dignity 
of peoples and through the participation and inclusion 
of everyone.
Allow  me  to  present  the  situation  in  my  country, 
the Republic of Haiti.
The Haitian people are at a decisive turning point 
in  their  long  march  in  search  of  stability,  democracy 
and progress, towards the consolidation of democratic 
institutions established 27 years ago with the adoption 
of the 1987 Constitution. After more than two decades 
punctuated  by  disasters  of  all  kinds,  Haiti  has  made 
undeniable  progress  over  the  past  three  years  in 
14-54942
9/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
terms of consolidating democracy and the rule of law, 
strengthening  its  institutions  and  protecting  human 
rights,  reducing  poverty  and  laying  the  foundations 
for  sustained  growth  and  long-lasting  development. 
We  are  aware  that  the  road  that  should  lead  Haiti  to 
socioeconomic  stability  is  still  long.  However,  the 
obstacles,  however  daunting  they  may  be,  are  not 
insurmountable.
In  terms  of  security,  the  situation  has  improved 
to the point where Haiti has become one of the safest 
countries in the Caribbean. The Government has made 
great  efforts  to  strengthen  the  professionalism  of  the 
Haitian  National  Police.  I  maintain  and  reaffirm  my 
stance on the need for a gradual and orderly withdrawal 
of  United  Nations  troops  from  Haitian  soil.  That 
process  has  in  fact  already  commenced,  along  with 
the  strengthening  of  the  operational  capacity  of  the 
National  Police  of  Haiti,  which  will  allow  it  to  take 
over from the forces of the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti.
I  wish  to  make  a  plea  for  better  coordination  of 
the  work  of  United  Nations  agencies  with  national 
institutions and for taking into account the real needs 
of the country.
With  regard  to  education,  70  per  cent  of  pupils 
in  the  first  two  years  of  primary  school  receive  a 
free  education.  For  the  first  time  in  Haiti,  5  per 
cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  is  earmarked  for 
education.  Today,  the  net  school  enrolment  rate  has 
increased significantly. We are working hard to reach 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  are  set  at 
100 per cent in this regard, as the Assembly knows.
In the area of health, we have stepped up efforts to 
reduce the incidence of diseases such as AIDS, malaria 
and vector-borne diseases. The significant increase in 
health centres across the country has improved access 
to  care  and  led  to  a  reduction  in  maternal  and  infant 
mortality. Maternal mortality fell from 350 to 157 per 
100,000 live births per 100,000. Through our Ministry 
of Health, we were able to build and rehabilitate more 
than 200 health facilities. And to strengthen governance 
in health, we are committed to the ongoing training of 
our health professionals so they can provide better care 
and  services.  With  regard  to  cholera,  while  assuming 
our duty to our fellow citizens, Haiti calls for a decisive 
commitment from the United Nations to contribute to 
the National Plan for the Eradication of Cholera.
With  regard  to  the  economy,  major  reforms  have 
been put in place to improve the business environment. 
The increased flow of foreign capital and the number of 
tourists visiting our country are tangible evidence of the 
improving business climate in Haiti. We are resolutely 
focused  on  our  goal  of  making  Haiti  an  investment 
destination, not a humanitarian destination.
On  the  political  front,  Haiti  will  conduct  free, 
honest  and  transparent  elections  as  soon  as  possible 
for  the  renewal  of  democratic  and  constitutional 
institutions. That is a necessary step. Democratic rules 
require it, and I will uphold republican principles until 
the end. As Head of State, guarantor of the stability of 
institutions, I have spared no effort to find consensus 
among  all  parties  and  institutions  involved  in  the 
organization  of  legislative  and  municipal  elections. 
Despite the discrepancies, in the spirit of Jean-Jacques 
Dessalines, I am confident that together we will arrive 
at  such  consensus.  I  look  forward  to  bringing  my 
fellow citizens together around the table to provide that 
harmonious  area  marked  by  the  purest  ideals  that  the 
Haitian people have established for themselves, ideals 
that we remain firmly committed to.
I would like to reiterate the support of the Republic 
of Haiti to the fight that the United Nations is leading 
to eradicate poverty. While waiting for the summit to 
be held next year in which Member States will decide 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  I  can  already 
express  the  confidence  of  my  Administration  in  the 
sustainable development goals intended to replace the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Mr. Mendonça e Moura (Portugal), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The  world  currently  has  enormous  resources. 
Our  challenge  is  to  find  effective  ways  and  means  to 
ensure that they are distributed in an equitable and just 
manner.  I  remain  convinced  that  our  commitment  to 
reduce poverty and inequality throughout the world is 
necessary. It is in that spirit that the Republic of Haiti 
joins the international community to contribute its part 
to meet that challenge. It is suitable, therefore, that we 
heighten the effectiveness of the Organization and give 
it the necessary and sufficient resources in the exercise 
of that mission.
Our  goal  is  for  that  truly  to  become  the  basis  of 
a  system  of  security  and  collective  solidarity  that  is 
able to ensure the rule of law and to preserve peace and 
international security; a system able to prioritize basic 
freedoms and human rights; a system able to promote 
strong growth that is careful to respect the environment 
10/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
and development that responds to current needs without 
risking the future of generations to come. It is up to us, 
on the eve of the seventieth anniversary of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  to  transmit  that  new  spirit,  so 
indispensable  to  the  promotion  and  defense  of  the 
universal values of which we are the custodians.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Haiti for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Emanuel Mori, President and 
Head of Government of the Federated States 
of Micronesia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Head of Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mori:  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  lead  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I wish to thank him 
and  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  their 
leadership.  I  must  also  commend  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, who has more than measured up to the 
tremendous tasks associated with his high Office.
Allow me to extend my sympathies to the families 
of  the  victims  of  the  tragic  and  appalling  events  that 
have  recently  unfolded  around  the  world,  from  the 
passengers  on  Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17  to  the 
recent  beheadings  by  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and 
Syria, to the victims of the Ebola epidemic and natural 
disasters. We will never forget those tragedies and the 
loss of lives.
I am humbled to speak in this hallowed Hall for the 
last time as President of my island nation, the Federated 
States  of  Micronesia.  Like  my  predecessors,  I  come 
with great respect for this honourable institution. This 
global Organization is best suited to address and solve 
the pressing issues of our global family.
I  have  come  to  the  United  Nations  compelled 
by  the  dictates  of  conscience.  We  are  all  stewards  of 
God’s creation here on Earth. The bounties of Mother 
Nature are priceless, and we all bear the obligation to 
sustainably manage them.
Over 30 years ago, small island countries brought 
the  issue  of  climate  change  to  the  attention  of  the 
United Nations. Some Members have criticized us for 
focusing too much on climate change and sea-level rise, 
but those issues influence our every decision and affect 
every aspect of life in our islands. Across the globe, the 
deadly impacts of climate change on the environment 
are stark realities. Others can afford to speak of them 
as  future  threats,  but  we  in  small  island  countries 
are  already  facing  the  impacts,  which  are  worse  than 
science predicted.
Micronesia means “little islands”, with atolls rising 
only a few feet above sea level. According to the Fifth 
Assessment  Report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel 
on  Climate  Change,  human-caused  climate  change 
is  leading  to  sea-level  rise,  more  frequent  and  more 
intense typhoons and severe droughts. A small increase 
in  the  sea  level  would  be  a  catastrophe  for  the  atolls 
of  Micronesia.  Our  islands  contribute  almost  nothing 
towards  the  causes  of  climate  change,  and  yet  we 
face the brunt of its adverse impacts. Climate change 
threatens our food and water security, the health of our 
population,  the  health  of  our  oceans  and  coral  reefs, 
our  biodiversity  and  the  very  existence  of  our  island 
nations.
What are we doing about it? Collectively, in order 
for  small  islands  to  survive,  the  Alliance  of  Small 
Island  States  (AOSIS)  advocates  for  limiting  global 
warming  to  well  below  a  1.5°C  increase  above  the 
pre-industrial  temperature.  That  requires  immediate 
action from all stakeholders. Small Island Developing 
States (SIDS) must not be asked to fight climate change 
by  themselves.  On  that  note,  we  support  the  recently 
launched World Bank initiative on carbon pricing.
Next year, the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (COP21),  to  be  held 
in  Paris,  will  establish  a  new  climate  change  treaty, 
which will go into effect in 2020. However, the United 
Nations Environment Programme has identified a pre-
2020 emissions gap. Therefore, AOSIS has also made 
14-54942
11/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
an important proposal to the work plan on enhancing 
mitigation ambitions in order to close the gap.
Micronesia has made an equally important proposal 
to  amend  the  Montreal  Protocol  to  phase  down  the 
production  and  consumption  of  hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs),  which  are  powerful  greenhouse  gases.  That 
action  can  reduce  the  global  average  temperature 
increase  by  up  to  0.5°C  by  the  end  of  this  century. 
Reducing HFCs and other short-lived climate pollutants 
can  reduce  the  rate  of  sea-level  rise  by  25  per  cent. 
Near-term climate mitigation will give all atolls around 
the globe a chance to survive.
The  Montreal  Protocol’s  success  and  enormous 
potential to protect the climate was recognized in The 
Economist  this  week.  The  magazine  has  a  separate 
editorial  entitled  “Paris  via  Montreal:  The  quickest 
way to cut greenhouse gases is to expand the Montreal 
Protocol”. Indeed, the success of the Montreal Protocol 
in  the  next  six  months  is  our  ticket  to  a  successful 
outcome  in  Paris  at  COP  21.  I  commend  the  United 
States  of  America  and  China  for  continuing  to  work 
to fulfil their agreement to use the Montreal Protocol 
to  reduce  HFCs.  I  call  on  other  world  leaders  to  join 
Micronesia and adopt the proposed HFC amendment.
In  the  face  of  already  occurring  climate  change 
impacts,  the  best  small  island  nations  can  do  on  the 
ground is to try to anticipate and adapt to climate change 
and instil the best possible disaster risk reduction and 
response  policies.  Adaptation  is  therefore  a  priority 
in  Micronesia’s  Climate  Change  Act,  which  was 
recognized  at  the  recent  world  summit  of  the  Global 
Legislators Organization for a Balanced Environment. 
The Act implements our nationwide integrated disaster 
risk management and climate change policy. The goal of 
the policy is two-fold: first, to achieve economic growth 
and  self-reliance  within  a  framework  of  sustainable 
development,  and  secondly,  to  minimize  the  risks 
associated with all human-induced and natural hazards, 
including those associated with climate change.
Micronesia has also developed an agriculture policy 
to  address  food  and  water  security  and  strengthen 
economic  development.  The  policy  also  provides  the 
basis  for  action  to  revitalize  sustainable  agriculture, 
while recognizing the major role played by traditional 
farming systems and the importance of climate-resilient 
crops.  Other  key  national  actions  of  Micronesia  and 
other SIDS are reflected in the Majuro Declaration for 
Climate Leadership and the Palau Declaration on “The 
Ocean: Life and Future”.
In 
this 
the  Small 
International  Year  of  Small 
Island 
Developing  States,  the  United  Nations  has  convened 
a  number  of  important  conferences  whose  outcomes 
must  be  incorporated  into  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. In that regard, I stress the critical importance 
of 
Island  Developing 
States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  —  Samoa 
Pathway  —  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  stimulate 
sustainable development in SIDS through durable and 
genuine partnerships.
implementing 
We  note  with  appreciation  the  report  by  the 
Chairs  of  the  Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  fully  endorse  the  proposed 
sustainable  development  goals  (SDGs).  We  rely  on 
our  development  partners  to  assist  us  in  undertaking 
the  actions  identified  in  the  Samoa  Pathway  and  in 
fulfilling the SDGs in ways that are appropriate for our 
peoples and our cultures.
Clean energy and energy efficiency are two of the 
key  engines  for  advancing  our  sustainable  and  low-
carbon  development.  Therefore,  our  national  energy 
policy gives priority to energy efficiency and renewable 
energy. By 2020, the share of renewable energy sources 
will be at least 30 per cent of total energy production, 
while electricity efficiency will increase by 50 per cent. 
That will require harnessing sunshine, which we have 
in  abundance,  as  well  as  renewable  wind  and  marine 
energy  resources.  I  call  on  our  development  partners 
to  assist  us  in  implementing  our  national  energy 
policy, including through the SIDS Renewable Energy 
Initiative.
Our  ocean  and  its  resources  are  of  paramount 
importance, but they are threatened by climate change 
and ocean acidification, which damage coral reefs and 
could  alter  the  migration  patterns  of  tuna,  our  most 
commercially  valuable  resource.  Foreign  vessels, 
which  enjoy  unprecedented  returns  from  harvesting 
our exclusive economic zone, need to help us maintain 
the  health,  productivity  and  resilience  of  our  ocean. 
Micronesia must also receive fair compensation for the 
value of its resources.
As part of a programme of sustainable use, we must 
reduce the amount of by-catch being discarded, bring 
it  to  shore  and  put  it  to  good  use.  Illegal,  unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing  (IUU  fishing)  continues  to 
threaten  our  ocean  resources  and  undermines  our 
economic sustainability. We all must abide by the rules. 
IUU fishing must be stopped.
12/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) have become 
a  leading  cause  of  death  in  the  Pacific.  Therefore, 
Pacific leaders have declared NCDs an epidemic. Such 
diseases are lifestyle diseases, but they are compounded 
by  climate  change,  which  destroys  our  food  crops 
and  contaminates  our  water  supplies.  Tackling  that 
multisectoral  issue  requires  broad  cooperation  and 
support.
Human trafficking is one of the most serious social 
diseases of modern society. It robs individuals of their 
dignity,  particularly  women  and  children.  Profiting 
from human misery is despicable. Micronesia supports 
the eradication of trafficking in all its forms. Objective 
and  transparent  ratings  of  countries  will  help  achieve 
that goal.
We  urge  the  establishment  of  the  “One  UN” 
approach for the North Pacific. We are now benefiting 
from the United Nations Joint Presence in the region, 
but  we  need  to  increase  its  efficiency  at  the  country 
level. The One UN approach is timely as we position 
ourselves  to  implement  the  Samoa  Pathway  and  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  and  it  will  help  us 
address our national priorities.
Despite the United Nations target of setting aside 
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  for  official 
development assistance, most developed nations fall far 
short of that goal. Small island developing States face 
unique challenges owing to our extreme vulnerabilities, 
including  climate  change.  The  need  for  financial  and 
technical  assistance  from  development  partners  is 
greater  than  ever,  especially  for  human  resources 
development  and  the  capacity-building  of  domestic 
institutions.
Internationally agreed financial mechanisms such 
as  the  Green  Climate  Fund  must  be  fully  capitalized 
and  sufficiently  scaled  up  to  support  the  post-2015 
development agenda. We applaud Germany, France and 
six other nations for pledging specific sums. We urge 
those countries and the other major economic Powers 
that are also the major polluters to deliver the funds.
has 
liberalized 
My 
Government 
its 
telecommunications  system,  and  the  World  Bank  is 
providing assistance in the form of grants for installing 
a state-of-the-art fibre-optic system in my country. That 
much-needed  infrastructure  will  spur  economic  and 
social development. We continue to look to the World 
Bank,  the  International  Telecommunication  Union, 
the  Asian  Development  Bank  and  other  development 
partners  to  help  us  accelerate  implementation  of  that 
new system and provide for cyber-security.
The reform of the Security Council is long overdue. 
A reformed Council should reflect the political realities 
of today. It would be inconceivable to have a reformed 
Council without permanent seats for Japan, Germany, 
Brazil and India, as well as representation for Africa.
Micronesia  is  confident  that  the  United  Nations 
can maintain international peace and security. It shines 
like  a  bright  beacon  of  hope  for  those  suffering  from 
the  ravages  of  war.  Micronesia  condemns  senseless 
killings, no matter where they occur. The Middle East 
is  a  specific  trouble  spot  that  deserves  this  body’s 
attention.  Peace  can  be  achieved  through  mutual 
respect  and  economic  stability,  not  by  using  civilian 
lives as shields.
Micronesia  also  looks  to  the  United  Nations  to 
effectively address the global security threats posed by 
climate change. Micronesia has taken an active role in 
the international sustainable development and climate 
change negotiation processes. We will continue seeking 
solutions to those challenges, out of the conviction that 
it  is  our  moral  obligation  to  protect  Mother  Nature 
and her bounties. All countries must work together to 
protect our children’s future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Charles Angelo Savarin, President 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Commonwealth 
of Dominica.
Mr.  Charles  Angelo  Savarin,  President  of  the 
Commonwealth of Dominica, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Charles  Angelo  Savarin, 
President  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
14-54942
13/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
President  Savarin:  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uganda, on his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe 
for  his  leadership  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session, and to salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for his continued efforts to promote peace, security and 
development throughout the world.
Dominica is among six small independent States in 
the Caribbean that, together with three non-independent 
small island territories, constitute the Organization of 
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The OECS States are 
not simply small island developing States (SIDS), they 
are very small island developing States, and therefore 
among  the  most  vulnerable  members  of  the  United 
Nations family. Twenty years after the adoption of the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  and 
10  years  after  the  approval  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy 
for  Implementation,  most  of  the  commitments  made 
to promote sustainable development in SIDS have yet 
to be delivered. However, we remain hopeful that the 
recently concluded third United Nations Conference on 
Small Island Developing States, held in Apia, Samoa, 
will  have  been  a  watershed  moment  for  SIDS.  We 
expect the draft outcome document of the Conference 
(A/CONF.  223/3)  to  create  a  new  basis  on  which  to 
address  the  implementation  gaps  that  continue  to 
stymie any movement towards sustainable development 
in SIDS.
I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate the 
Government and people of Samoa on hosting a major 
international conference. Their tenacity, determination 
and  commitment  are  a  demonstration  of  what  can  be 
achieved by SIDS, despite the many challenges they face. 
One major outcome of the Samoa Conference was the 
historic establishment of an all-SIDS — that is, SIDS-
SIDS  —  initiative  aimed  at  creating  an  international 
organization to serve as a platform for the development 
of sustainable energy in SIDS, known as SIDS DOCK. 
On  1  September,  a  treaty  formally  establishing  SIDS 
DOCK as an international organization was opened for 
signature.  Twenty  of  the  30  members  of  the  Alliance 
of Small Island States have signed on to the treaty. As 
Chair  of  the  SIDS  DOCK  Steering  Committee,  the 
Government  of  Dominica  wishes  to  thank  the  host 
country,  Samoa,  the  other  Member  States  that  are 
signatories  to  the  treaty,  our  partners  —  Denmark, 
Japan, the United Nations Development Programme, the 
World Bank, the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization,  the  Clinton  Foundation,  the  secretariat 
of the Pacific Regional Environmental Programme, the 
Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre — and 
the SIDS DOCK secretariat and all the volunteers for 
making that historic event possible.
Unfortunately, the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) and the post-2015 agenda have not progressed 
at a pace that those of us in the SIDS group would have 
liked. Almost 15 years since the Millennium Declaration 
was  adopted  (resolution  55/2),  only  a  few  countries 
in  the  developing  world  have  registered  tangible 
gains. The majority continue to wait for the promised 
improvements  in  their  living  conditions.  Nonetheless, 
Dominica  has  been  able  to  meet  most  of  the  MDGs, 
notably  in  reducing  poverty,  improving  access  to 
education,  ensuring  environmental  sustainability  and 
building strong bilateral and multilateral partnerships. 
Our  progress  in  poverty  reduction  has  been  noted  by 
the Caribbean Development Bank, which stated in its 
2009 report on Dominica that
“the level of poverty in Dominica has fallen from 
39  per  cent  in  2003  to  28.8  per  cent  in  2009. 
Absolute  poverty,  as  measured  by  the  indigence 
rate, has also declined from 10 per cent in 2003 to 
3.1 per cent in 2009.”
Our achievements in education have also surpassed 
the 
targets  set  by 
the 
importance  of  education  to  our  development  agenda, 
Dominica  continues  to  make  major  investments  in 
improving access to quality education for our people. 
To date, we can boast of universal access to education 
at the early childhood, primary and secondary levels, 
and access to post-secondary education is available to 
all secondary-school graduates.
the  MDGs.  Recognizing 
Dominica has always been guided by the principle 
of  the  sustainable  use  of  its  natural  resources  and 
the  protection  of  its  physical  environment.  For  those 
reasons, Dominica has been called the “Nature Island 
of the Caribbean”. We therefore have much that we can 
share with the United Nations family on the subject of 
the sustainable use of natural resources. In our efforts 
to  protect  and  ensure  environmental  sustainability 
and to rid our country of its reliance on fossil fuels for 
generating electricity, the Government of Dominica has 
invested, and continues to invest, in renewable energy. 
14/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
Today about 20 per cent of the island’s electricity needs 
are met from “clean” hydropower.
Additionally,  however,  the  Government  has  been 
pursuing the development of the country’s geothermal 
resources.  To  date,  the  Government  has  invested 
over  $20  million  in  geothermal  development.  The 
first  production  and  reinjection  wells  have  been 
completed,  and  the  results  of  the  flow  tests  indicate 
that the geothermal reservoir has a capacity to generate 
sufficient  electricity  for  domestic  consumption  and 
for  export  to  the  neighbouring  French  territories  of 
Martinique and Guadeloupe. The first plant for purely 
domestic consumption is expected to be commissioned 
in 2016.
through 
Dominica’s development achievements in general, 
and  the  attainment  of  the  MDGs  in  particular,  have 
been  realized 
the  strong,  visionary  and 
compassionate leadership of Prime Minister Roosevelt 
Skerrit  and  his  Cabinet,  complemented  by  our  hard-
working  citizens  and  the  kind  cooperation  of  our 
development  partners.  Our  partnerships  with 
the 
European Union, the United States of America, Japan 
and  other  developed  countries  have  all  contributed 
significantly to the progress we have been able to make 
thus far. The recent approval by the World Bank of the 
Pilot  Programme  for  Climate  Resilience,  which  will 
undertake a number of infrastructure projects designed 
to transform Dominica into a climate-resilient and low-
carbon developing country and is expected, among other 
benefits, to positively impact agricultural productivity 
and food security in our rural communities.
South-South  cooperation  with  partners 
from 
developing countries, notably the People’s Republic of 
China,  Cuba,  Morocco  and  Venezuela,  and  from  the 
Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, has 
been able to complement the decreasing assistance from 
traditional  partners.  We  embrace  all  our  development 
partners  and  look  forward  to  the  deepening  and 
strengthening of our partnerships for the benefits of all 
our people.
In  spite  of  those  achievements,  we  are  a  long 
way  from  where  we  aspire  to  be.  The  spectre  of  the 
deadly  Ebola  disease  and  the  scourges  of  HIV/AIDS 
and  non-communicable  diseases  has  the  potential 
to  significantly  impact  our  people  and  threaten  the 
gains  made  so  far  by  small  island  developing  States. 
Therefore, that myriad of challenges calls for collective 
global  action  to  protect  the  gains  that  small  island 
States like Dominica have been able to achieve over the 
past two decades and to lay a path for development that 
is sustainable and people-focused.
Additionally, the impact of climate change remains 
an existential threat to the people throughout the world 
who call small island States their homes. The location, 
level  of  development  and  vulnerability  of  our  islands 
make  them  very  susceptible  to  the  impact  of  climate 
change. Very often, we refer to climate change and its 
effects  as  a  phenomenon  that  is  to  impact  our  global 
community  at  some  future  date.  The  unfortunate 
reality is that SIDS have already been suffering from 
the impact of climate change. The increasing severity 
of storms and hurricanes is becoming more prevalent, 
and with every strike the extreme weather claims lives 
and threatens our development efforts. According to a 
2008 publication by the United States National Oceanic 
and  Atmospheric  Administration,  the  Caribbean  has 
the  second-greatest  risk  of  hurricanes  in  the  world. 
The  report  also  highlights  the  increased  frequency  of 
tropical cyclones in our region.
landslides  and 
The  islands  of  the  Caribbean  are  also  prone  to 
earthquakes,  volcanic  eruptions,  droughts,  torrential 
rains  with  accompanying 
flash 
flooding. We in the Caribbean have therefore been on 
the receiving end of the impact of climate change for 
decades.  A  case  in  point  is  the  impact  of  Hurricane 
Ivan, a category-3 system that devastated the island of 
Grenada on 7 September 2004. Hurricane Ivan exposed 
the  vulnerability  that  is  inherent  in  SIDS.  Twenty-
eight  lives  were  lost  and  18,000  people  were  left 
without shelter, food or belongings. A post-Ivan study 
conducted  by  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean 
States reported that:
“The macro-economic assessment of the damages 
caused  by  Hurricane  Ivan,  which  wreaked  havoc 
on Grenada, inflicted damages totalling $1 billion, 
more than twice the value of that country’s GDP”.
In more recent times, on 24 December 2013, a time 
outside the traditional hurricane season, the Caribbean 
islands  of  Dominica,  Saint  Lucia,  and  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines were severely affected by a trough 
system  that  brought  with  it  heavy  rains  and  high 
winds.  That  slow-moving  weather  system  left  behind 
approximately  $128  million  worth  of  direct  damage. 
Within  less  than  12  hours,  each  of  those  countries 
suffered significant loss: Dominica — $17 million, or 
3.4  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP);  Saint 
14-54942
15/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
Lucia — $19 million, or 1.4 per cent of GDP; and Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines — $93 million, or 12.8 per 
cent.  The  indirect  impacts,  which  include  the  loss  of 
agricultural  production  and  interruptions  in  other 
economic  activities,  such  as  tourism,  would  increase 
the  overall  effect  significantly.  The  most  devastating 
hurricane  to  hit  Dominica  in  living  memory  was 
Hurricane  David,  on  29  August  1979,  a  category-5 
hurricane  that  left  the  island  devastated  as  if  by  war, 
resulting  in  43  deaths  and  with  all  public  utilities, 
infrastructure,  60  per  cent  of  homes,  roads  and  sea 
defences totally destroyed.
Such natural disasters affect the daily lives of our 
people  and  significantly  retard  our  efforts  to  bring 
about social and economic development. We therefore 
call  on  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
take  immediate  actions  to  approve  a  legally  binding 
agreement to reduce the impact of climate change. The 
climate change agenda must be an integral part of the 
post-2015 agenda.
The  creation  of  wealth  and  the  generation  of 
economic  growth  are  essential  for  the  eradication  of 
poverty and the improvement of the quality of life of our 
people.  However,  economic  growth  and  development 
should  be  inclusive  and  sustainable.  The  creation  of 
jobs  and  the  delivery  of  social  services  should  touch 
the  lives  of  all  our  people,  especially  the  indigenous 
people, the elderly, the disadvantaged, the disabled, the 
vulnerable,  and  those  people  who  are  excluded  from 
mainstream  society.  The  development  of  agriculture, 
tourism, the energy sector and industry should therefore 
be inclusive and sustainable.
Dominica therefore joins the rest of the Caribbean 
Community  in  calling  for  development  partners  to 
conduct  their  macroeconomic  and  trade  policies  in  a 
way that facilitates opportunities for SIDS to promote 
economic growth, shrink existing income gaps, reduce 
the  levels  of  poverty  and  achieve  their  development 
aspirations.  Those  policies  should  include,  but  not  be 
limited  to,  a  change  in  the  criteria  for  the  graduation 
of  SIDS  from  preferential  access  to  multilateral 
concessionary  financing.  The  new  criteria  must  take 
into  account  the  inherent  vulnerabilities  of  SIDS 
and  the  need  for  building  resilience  to  the  impact  of 
climate change and the vagaries of the global financial, 
economic and trading systems. Therefore, any measure 
that  inhibits  any  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
family from becoming fully integrated into the global 
financial and trading system should be removed.
In  that  vein,  the  economic  embargo  against  our 
brothers and sisters in Cuba continues to be of concern 
to  us  in  the  Caribbean.  That  unilateral  action  by  the 
United States of America against our sister Caribbean 
island, whatever the excuses might have been 55 years 
ago,  cannot  be  justified  today,  nor  can  the  suffering 
of  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Republic  of  Cuba, 
as  a  result  of  their  exclusion  for  55  years  from  the 
world  banking  and  trading  system,  be  defended.  It  is 
well established that, whatever the objectives were 55 
years  ago,  they  are  not  likely  to  be  achieved  through 
the  continuation  of  the  embargo.  The  Government  of 
Dominica therefore calls on the United States to heed 
the  call  of  the  General  Assembly  to  lift  the  embargo 
against Cuba and to support the full integration of the 
Cuban  people  into  the  global  financial  and  trading 
systems.
The  embargo  notwithstanding,  the  Cuban  people 
continue to make a tremendous contribution to human 
development  across  the  globe.  For  decades,  Cuba  has 
been  training  doctors,  nurses,  engineers  and  other 
professionals,  deploying  them  to  provide  technical 
assistance to developing countries as part of its South-
South  cooperation.  Cuba  also  offers  professional 
training in various disciplines to thousands of students 
from all over the developing world.
Cuba continues to add its voice in the fight against 
terrorism and drug trafficking in the Caribbean and the 
rest  of  the  world.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  Dominica 
fails  to  comprehend  the  continued  listing  of  Cuba  as 
a State sponsor of terrorism. We therefore call for the 
removal of Cuba from the list of countries that sponsor 
terrorism. Our efforts in the region should be focused 
instead  on  combating  the  real  threats  to  global  peace 
and security.
Similarly,  the  events  unfolding  in  Ukraine  are 
a  proxy  tug-of-war  between  the  European  Union  and 
the  United  States,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  Russian 
Federation, on the other. The Ukrainian people are the 
victims of the contest, which is a throwback to the Cold 
War.
The  United  Kingdom,  when  confronted  with  the 
question  of  Irish  nationalism  in  1918,  resolved  the 
matter through the ballot box with a county-by-county 
referendum on the future of Ireland. Most counties opted 
for independence, but five counties opted for continued 
union  with  the  United  Kingdom.  Three  years  later, 
the island was partitioned into the Republic of Ireland 
16/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
and Northern Ireland, the latter remaining part of the 
United Kingdom. The United Kingdom currently faces 
the  question  of  Scottish  independence.  Once  again, 
only last week on 18 September, the United Kingdom 
resorted to the ballot box to decide the matter. While the 
supporters of the campaign in favour of independence 
will be disappointed by the results, the real victors are 
not the supporters of the campaign for continued union 
with the United Kingdom but democracy itself.
With  that  experience,  the  United  Kingdom  is 
uniquely  placed  to  counsel  the  European  Union,  the 
United  States,  Kyiv  and  Moscow  about  how  to  grant 
the people of Ukraine the same opportunity to decide 
their destiny for themselves, according to their regional 
preferences and without coercion either from the East 
or  from  the  West.  Such  an  approach  would  end  the 
paralysis  in  the  Security  Council,  thereby  creating  a 
real partnership among the United States, the Russian 
Federation and China and enabling the United Nations 
to  fulfil  its  mandate  to  assist  in  conflict  resolution, 
combat  the  greatest  threats  facing  the  world  today, 
namely,  armed  conflict  and  terrorism,  and  create  a 
more peaceful international community.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  to  the  General 
Assembly  that  the  impact  of  climate  change  is  a 
major  threat  to  the  development  efforts  and  to  the 
very  existence  of  small  island  developing  States.  The 
incidence  of  severe  weather  conditions,  including 
coastal erosion and sea-level rise, continues to impact 
island  States  in  the  worst  ways  possible.  Our  ability 
to  survive  depends  not  only  on  the  individual  and 
collective actions taken by SIDS, but also on the actions 
of the rest of the international community.
A  legally  binding  outcome  to  the  climate  change 
negotiations  is  a  critical  component  in  a  series  of 
actions to be taken by Member States. That should be 
buttressed by a post-2015 agenda that includes poverty 
eradication, increased access to education and training, 
health care, potable water and sanitation, and promotes 
sustainable and inclusive economic development.
the 
The  outcomes  of 
third  United  Nations 
Conference on SIDS in Samoa should serve as a blueprint 
for the growth and development of SIDS. That should 
include the restructuring of the international financial 
and trading architecture so that the vulnerabilities and 
special circumstances of SIDS are taken into account. 
That new configuration will allow for the development 
of  SIDS  through  sustainable  agriculture,  tourism 
and  inclusive  industrial  development.  However,  such 
efforts  must  be  propelled  by  sustainable  energy  that 
maximizes  the  use  of  renewable  SIDS-appropriate 
energy resources in the most energy efficient manner.
Finally,  I  wish  all  participants  in  this  sixty-ninth 
session every success in their deliberations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Charles  Angelo  Savarin,  President  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia.
the 
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ivanov  (spoke  in  Macedonian;  English 
text provided by the delegation): I am greatly honoured 
to  address  this  forum  and  to  share  with  the  General 
Assembly the views of the Republic of Macedonia on 
issues of global concern. In the current dynamic, hyper-
connected  and  changing  world,  one  thing  remains 
constant — the need for greater predictability, a quality 
on which peace, security and stability depend, as well 
as global welfare and progress.
Humankind today faces many challenges, of which 
two  demand  our  full  attention.  The  first  one  relates 
to  the  natural  world,  and  the  second  relates  to  the 
international order. The root of the first challenge is the 
human  neglect  of  natural  laws.  The  second  challenge 
arises from the violation of international law.
Guided  by  the  idea  that  man  is  the  measure  of 
all  things,  humankind  has  made  a  wrong  calculation. 
We  are  competing  in  a  race  for  progress  and  new 
discoveries that goes hand in hand with a race for the 
14-54942
17/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
unequal exploitation of resources — a race whose only 
rule  is  that  there  are  no  rules.  Everything  is  possible 
and  everything  is  allowed,  including  the  pollution  of 
the air we breathe, the water we drink and the soil that 
produces our food.
legally binding goals aimed at ensuring a safer world 
for our descendants. However, we should be aware that 
the natural balance is disturbed and that many things 
will therefore not be as before. We will need to learn to 
live in a changed world.
As  humankind,  we  were  selfishly  focused  on 
immediate  needs  and  desires.  We  forget  that  natural 
resources have been given to us in trust to preserve for 
our children. In opposing nature, we are undermining 
the foundations of our future. Our citizens, States and 
economies have already begun to pay the price. We will 
face  a  period  of  extreme  weather  conditions,  when  it 
will become ever more likely that cities will be flooded, 
rivers will dry up, crops will fail and the price of food 
will increase.
Natural disasters at the global level serve as loud 
alarms telling us that climate change is a new reality that 
is changing our lives and the lives of future generations. 
Recently our region, South-Eastern Europe, was hit by 
such a disaster and reminded of that reality.
The Republic of Macedonia is the first country in 
our region to have completed its third national report 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change.  We  have  already  defined  the  next 
steps in all key sectors of the economy and society at 
the national and local levels for disaster risk reduction 
and climate change adaptation by promoting strategies 
and  efforts  to  reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
increase energy efficiency.
We  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  to  take  decisive  and 
concrete measures to remedy two of the world’s great 
miseries:  increased  global  poverty  and  diminished 
access  to  basic  resources,  including  clean  water, 
education, health care and a clean environment.
Here at the United Nations, we are all one family; 
as  a  family,  we  should  help  each  other  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  But  we  must  focus 
on  two  things,  that  is,  reducing  global  poverty  and 
ensuring sustainable development.
Next  year  will  be  one  of  great  expectations 
worldwide,  including  the  expectation  that  a  genuine 
synergy involving all the major challenges will finally 
be  achieved,  inter  alia,  climate  change  adaptation, 
disaster  risk  reduction  and  sustainable  development. 
We expect the post-2015 development agenda to include 
global,  holistic,  scientifically  grounded,  feasible  and 
Just  as  the  challenge  posed  by  nature  is  a  result 
of  the  human  neglect  of  natural  laws,  the  challenge 
to  the  international  order  arises  from  the  violation  of 
international law by some countries. I said before that 
we  are  all  one  United  Nations  family.  And  in  every 
family  there  are  rules  of  conduct  and  mutual  respect. 
Families without such rules are known as dysfunctional 
families.
The Republic of Macedonia is strongly committed 
to respecting the Charter of the United Nations, which 
is  one  of  the  primary  foundations  of  the  purposes 
and principles of international law. The rule of law is 
incomplete and impossible without respect for human 
rights. As a member of the Human Rights Council, the 
Republic of Macedonia is committed, in spirit and with 
determination,  to  protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights  and  the  right  to  human  dignity  throughout  the 
world.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  achieved  the 
highest standards of respect for human rights and the 
rights  of  communities  worldwide.  That  is  possible 
thanks  to  the  Macedonian  model  of  coexistence  as  a 
model  of  integration  without  assimilation,  which  is 
not based on tolerance alone, but rather on respect for 
diversity.
In  fact,  the  human  rights  and  human  dignity  of 
Macedonian  citizens  are  being  continually  denied 
by  one  Member  of  the  United  Nations  family  and  a 
member  of  NATO  and  the  European  Union.  Identity 
and language are inseparable parts of our personality, 
of freedom of expression, of human rights. Those are 
universally  accepted  principles  that  should  never  be 
compromised.  Respect  for  human  rights,  including 
the  rights  to  self-identification  and  human  dignity, 
represent the highest values of the United Nations and 
are  among  the  political  criteria  for  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia’s accession to the European Union.
The  country  that  is  blocking  my  country  is 
demanding the impossible, namely, that we give up the 
Macedonian identity, thereby violating the fundamental 
principles  of  the  European  Union  in  order  to  meet 
conditions for membership in it. That would force my 
country to violate a rule and betray the global family.
In  2008  at  the  NATO  Summit  in  Bucharest, 
basing  its  position  on  international  law,  my  country 
18/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
refused  to  change  the  identity  of  the  Macedonian 
people as a precondition for its already well-deserved 
membership  in  NATO.  On  17  November  2008,  we 
launched  proceedings  against  our  southern  neighbour 
under the auspices of the International Court of Justice, 
again  acting  on  the  basis  of  international  law.  On 
5 December 2011, on the basis of international law, the 
International Court of Justice ruled that the obstruction 
of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia’s  integration  in  NATO 
was  illegal  and  that  international  commitments  had 
been  violated.  For  years  my  country  has  tolerated 
unprincipled and illegal blockades, and we have done 
so because of international law — because we believe 
that  only  international  law  can  provide  predictability 
and certainty on behalf of world order.
By our example we have demonstrated in principle 
how  other  countries  should  respect  international  law. 
Even  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  in  an  almost 
unanimous  decision,  concluded  that  we  had  acted 
correctly.  Despite  that,  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
is  ready  for  a  mutually  acceptable  solution  under  the 
framework provided by United Nations resolutions, the 
Interim Accord and the judgment of the International 
Court of Justice. The issue of identity has never been 
part of that framework, because identity can neither be 
discussed  nor  negotiated.  I  therefore  urge  the  United 
Nations  and  the  competent  authorities  to  become 
engaged  and  to  devote  maximum  attention  to  finding 
mutually acceptable solutions within the framework of 
international law.
Two years ago, I was at the General Assembly (see 
A/67/PV.12)  and  remember  well  that  the  session  was 
preceded  by  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of 
Law at the National and International Levels (see A/67/
PV.3).  The  General  Assembly  debated  the  Secretary-
General’s report (A/66/749) entitled “Delivering justice: 
programme  of  action  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  at 
the national and international levels”. Two years have 
passed, and we are still debating. We are still waiting 
for  rulings  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  be 
respected.
Our southern neighbour continues daily to violate 
international  law.  It  continues  to  violate  the  various 
1993  United  Nations  resolutions  on  the  subject,  as 
well  as  the  1995  Interim  Accord.  It  also  still  ignores 
the  ruling  of  the  highest  legal  authority  in  the  world. 
But  that  ruling  does  not  apply  only  to  the  State  that 
blocks us, the ruling applies, erga omnes, to all member 
States of the international organizations that still block 
our  membership.  Every  blockade  in  our  European 
and Euro-Atlantic integration process undermines the 
international  legal  order.  By  tolerating  the  blockades, 
a  dangerous  precedent  is  created,  one  of  mutual 
blocking and blackmailing that is motivated by narrow 
national  interests  at  the  expense  of  the  collective 
interests  of  the  European  Union  and  NATO.  Hence, 
dysfunctional  families  are  created  that  do  not  respect 
the  rules  of  conduct.  Disrespect  for  the  highest  legal 
authorities implies an erosion of the culture of respect 
for  international  law  in  the  world.  Such  an  erosion 
suspends the rule of law and leaves room for anarchy.
For  years,  we  have  pertinently  pointed  out  that, 
if  someone  pollutes  the  spring,  then  its  flow  and  the 
entire watershed will also be contaminated. If someone 
questions  basic  human  rights  —  the  right  to  human 
dignity  and  the  right  to  self-identification  —  then 
the  rest  of  international  law  will  also  be  challenged. 
We  have  warned  of  the  violation  of  international  law 
in  the  case  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia,  but  others 
have rarely listened. Today, the price we pay is higher. 
Everyone calls upon international law when others are 
expected  to  respect  it,  but  they  ignore  it  when  they 
themselves  must  respect  it.  We  do  not  want  to  follow 
the example of those who break the law, because we are 
aware of the consequences.
If we remove one link, one factor or one participant 
from  an  ecosystem,  that  can  cause  instability  and 
unpredictability  in  its  functioning.  We  live  in  a 
world  and  an  age  of  global 
interdependence,  a 
global  ecosystem.  When  a  State  fails  to  comply  with 
international commitments, it encourages others to do 
the  same.  Today  we  are  witnessing  the  consequences 
of such behaviour. Under the conditions of an impaired 
international legal system, the world has been rapidly 
sinking  into  the  dark  areas  of  anarchic  international 
relations.
The world order is in a latent crisis. The processes of 
global interdependence and subnational fragmentation 
have  transformed  our  previous  perceptions  of  the 
world. In less than a decade, we have experienced two 
major  changes.  The  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September 
2001 shook the global political and security order, and 
the collapse of Lehman Brothers on 15 September 2008 
struck the global economic order. The only remaining 
order of the world we used to know is the international 
legal  order.  However,  the  legal  system  has  been 
challenged as well.
14-54942
19/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  sees  its  future  in 
NATO  and  the  European  Union.  With  its  expansion 
policy, the European Union has long served as a beacon 
lighting the path for the States of East and South-East 
Europe  towards  the  more  advanced  European  family. 
We were recently informed that this beacon will go out 
of service in the next five years. If it does, there will be 
the danger of shipwreck. The region of South-Eastern 
Europe remains vulnerable. I want to send a message 
to partners in the European Union that by postponing 
its enlargement, the EU has been creating a vacuum in 
what has been historically the most porous geopolitical 
space.  Sooner  or  later,  that  vacuum  will  be  filled. 
That  is  why  we  need  as  soon  as  possible  to  integrate 
all  the  Balkan  countries  within  the  European  Union. 
While the membership card is not that important for us, 
the  necessary  membership  criteria  and  standards  are 
important. In our case, the European Union’s beacon has 
grown dim because of its toleration of a devaluation of 
international law, human rights and the right to human 
dignity, which provide the essential fuel that powers the 
beacon. In losing its light, the European Union is losing 
what has been most valuable — its power to motivate 
States  to  strive  for  even  higher  values,  standards  and 
criteria.
I  also  want  to  send  a  clear  message  to  my  region 
that in these circumstances, now is the time for Balkan 
countries  to  demonstrate  maximum  solidarity  and 
unity in achieving shared goals — cooperation on such 
issues  as  integration,  our  economies,  infrastructure, 
energy,  environmental  protection,  terrorism  and  the 
suppression  of  organized  crime.  We  must  resist  and 
jointly address those shared challenges. In a world that 
is rapidly changing, the need for greater predictability 
in  international  relations  remains.  Only  international 
law can offer the reliability and predictability on which 
world peace and the progress of our countries depend. 
International  law  is  the  only  barrier  that  protects  us 
from  a  disaster  within  the  international  order,  and 
international law has been constantly breached.
We  are 
in 
today  as 
this  Hall 
the  highest 
representatives of our countries in the world family. I am 
confident that most members of the General Assembly 
agree with those conclusions. But the question is, how 
many of us are willing to take action to change things. 
I wish that we were not in a situation where we could 
simply debate and draw conclusions over and over again. 
It is high time that we start with actions. This is the last 
call. We should ask ourselves whether the natural order 
has an alternative and what that might be. Our failure to 
comply with natural laws has led to accelerated climate 
change — to more floods, earthquakes and fires. The 
failure to comply with international law has contributed 
to  increased  anarchy  in  international  relations  and 
interventions against those who have flooded, burned 
and destroyed the natural order today.
Not long ago, in August, the sixth United Nations 
Alliance of Civilizations Forum, held in Bali, focused 
on unity in diversity. While the world has been talking 
about unity in diversity, radical extremists have become 
united in their intentions to destroy those who differ. As 
we speak, millions of faithful believers around the world 
feel the pain caused by narrow-minded individuals and 
groups imbued with religious fundamentalism. As we 
speak,  the  systematic  destruction  of  individuals  and 
communities  is  occurring.  As  we  speak,  hundreds  of 
thousands  are  being  persecuted.  Their  homes  have 
been devastated, their temples destroyed and their past 
erased, and their future is in question.
Recognizing that terrorism cannot and should not 
be  identified  with  any  religion,  nation  or  civilization, 
we  strongly  condemn  mass  atrocities  committed  by 
anyone anywhere. We commend yesterday’s debate in 
the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.7272).  What  we  need 
are  urgent  measures.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
already  taken  the  first  steps.  Recently,  we  adopted 
amendments  to  the  criminal  code  regarding  foreign 
fighters,  who  are  a  real  threat  to  the  entire  region. 
Everything  that  is  happening  in  the  crisis  hotspots 
reflects  on  Europe,  which  has  its  own  crisis  hotspot 
now in Ukraine.
It  is  sad  that  in  the  twenty-first  century  we  have 
witnessed  tragedies  in  the  Middle  East  and  North 
Africa.  It  is  sad  that  this  is  happening  in  Europe,  in 
a year that has been declared an international year of 
peace. It is obvious that, on the centenary of the First 
World  War,  the  lessons  of  the  past  have  not  yet  been 
learned.
The  majority  of  victims  of  the  Ukraine  crisis  are 
innocent civilians. There have also been material losses. 
The Republic of Macedonia supports all efforts aimed 
at  restoring  peace  and  stability  in  that  country.  I  am 
convinced  that  political  dialogue  and  diplomacy  will 
enable Ukraine to address the challenges and regain its 
path towards a prosperous future for its citizens.
The  world  is  facing  serious  challenges,  including 
natural disasters and political issues — both of which 
20/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
mask  double  standards.  Double  standards  generate 
issues that introduce equations with many unknowns, 
leading to a world where the only thing we are certain 
of  is  that  the  future  of  our  children  is  uncertain. 
Only respect for international law will ensure greater 
certainty,  thereby  helping  to  avoid  storms  in  our 
dynamic world.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  supports  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  as  a  significant  part  of  the 
overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a  complex 
and  sensitive  process.  We  agree  with  the  proposal  to 
negotiate  the  actual  text.  At  the  same  time,  we  stress 
that the text must receive maximum support from the 
membership  and  ensure  respect  for  international  law 
and international commitments and rules. Such reform 
must  provide  greater  predictability  in  the  world.  As 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  said  at  the  opening 
of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, 
“We shall have neither peace nor development without 
respect for human rights and the rule of law” (A/67/PV.6, 
p. 3). Only international law provides the opportunity 
to solve the equation and thus to plan the future, based 
on security, stability and peace.
Young  people  continue  to  be  the  main  victims  of 
double standards and violations of the norms of national 
and international law by prior and current generations, 
as well as of natural disasters. They breathe the polluted 
air,  drink  the  polluted  water  and  eat  food  grown  in 
contaminated  soil.  They  will  become  the  victims  of 
systems of injustice unless we do something to change 
that.
In 2003, we initiated the first Forum of the Dialogue 
among  Civilizations,  which  was  held  in  Ohrid  under 
the  leadership  of  former  President  Trajkovski.  The 
Dialogue  among  Civilizations,  both  chronologically 
and  in  essence,  predated  the  United  Nations  Alliance 
of  Civilizations,  which  was  formed  in  2005  at  the 
initiative  of  the  Governments  of  Spain  and  Turkey. 
Indeed, only through dialogue will we join together in 
an alliance of civilizations. The Brdo-Brijuni Process 
Meeting  was  recently  held  with  the  participation  of 
the  German  Chancellor,  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Merkel. 
An  entire  chapter  of  the  joint  declaration  is  devoted 
to youth. As President of the Republic of Macedonia, 
it  will  be  my  honour  to  organize,  together  with  the 
Director-General  of  UNESCO,  Ms.  Irina  Bokova,  the 
upcoming Dialogue among Civilizations in 2015, which 
will be entirely dedicated to youth.
In the year when we are marking the centenary of 
the First World War, we recall the positive experiences 
of  Charles  de  Gaulle  and  Konrad  Adenauer 
in 
establishing the Franco-German Youth Office in 1963. 
That  experience  of  cooperation  among  young  people 
should  be  applied  in  establishing  an  office  for  young 
Europeans  from  all  the  countries  of  South-Eastern 
Europe,  transforming  our  region  into  a  Europeanized 
Balkans. We call on the leaders to devote greater time 
and  attention  and  invest  in  youth.  We  cannot  change 
our past, but we can, by changing the present, change 
the  past  of  the  generations  to  come.  That  is  why  it  is 
necessary to educate young people about the importance 
of dialogue, which involves respect and the acceptance 
of diversity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
the 
Address by Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United Nations His Excellency Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, 
President  of  the  Union  of  the  Comoros,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Dhoinine  (spoke  in  French):  Let  me 
begin by conveying to the United States authorities my 
delegation’s  heartfelt  gratitude  for  their  always  warm 
hospitality  in  hosting  this  great  annual  event  here  in 
New York. I also express my sincere congratulations to 
the President and wish him full success in conducting 
the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session. 
Finally, on behalf of my delegation and myself I renew 
our  full  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for his commitment to serving our Organization.
14-54942
21/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
The  current  session  —  the  sixty-ninth  —  is 
taking place at a crucial moment in the history of our 
Organization, a crucible of multilateralism and global 
diplomacy  that  has,  over  time,  become  an  ever  more 
precious and indispensable tool for peace and security 
in  the  world.  The  session  is  being  held  on  the  eve  of 
our  Organization’s  seventieth  anniversary,  which  we 
will  celebrate  one  year  hence  in  this  beautiful  city 
of  New  York.  We  will  celebrate  it  here,  at  a  venue 
renowned  for  the  discussions  and  ongoing  dialogue 
that  place  humankind  and  the  environment  at  the 
forefront of concerns, with a view to fostering peace in 
international relations. In the light of the wisdom and 
experience of its 69 years, our Organization must find 
fresh strength and vitality and renew its commitment to 
a world continually faced with challenges and threats 
that change and become more unpredictable with each 
passing day.
The  current  session  also  provides  us  with  an 
important  opportunity  to  carry  out  a  comprehensive 
assessment of our Organization’s work and undertake 
the  preparations  to  ensure  that  2015  will  be  the  year 
of reform, on the occasion of our seventieth birthday. 
Clearly, as part of that process, we should take greater 
account, first, of new complications, such as those related 
to the extreme vulnerability of small island developing 
States, in accordance with the recommendations of the 
recent Third International Conference on Small Island 
Developing States, held in Apia. Secondly, we should 
work  to  ensure  better  representation  for  developing 
countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa,  which  today 
includes  not  only  areas  that  are  seeing  significant 
economic  growth  but  also  some  that  are  afflicted  by 
great  poverty  and  often  bloody  conflicts  that  slow 
their development and are an obstacle to their peoples’ 
welfare.
Meanwhile, it is vital that the long-hoped-for reform 
of our Organization include ensuring that the Security 
Council  takes  on  the  role  of  coordinator  in  the  fight 
against  the  new  global  scourge  of  terrorism.  In  any 
event,  as  a  country  committed  to  and  involved  in  the 
East African Standby Force, the Union of the Comoros 
fully appreciates the Security Council’s responsibilities 
in  helping  to  promote,  guide  and  supervise  the 
prevention and resolution of conflicts in Central Africa, 
Nigeria and Mali, as well as Libya, Syria, Iraq, Ukraine 
and  any  country  in  crisis.  All  are  sources  of  tension 
that undermine peace in various parts of the world and 
have become fertile breeding grounds for international 
terrorism.  It  is  in  that  context,  and  especially  in  the 
wake  of  the  recent  and  bloody  armed  attacks  on  our 
Palestinian brothers in Gaza, that I would like to stress 
the urgent need for a just and immediate solution to the 
question of Palestine, which, sadly, is almost as old as 
our Organization.
In order to maintain and build peace in a constantly 
changing world, we must focus unfailingly on conflict 
prevention,  while  continuing  to  support  efforts  to 
solve  crises  as  they  arise.  Our  community  of  nations 
has a duty to take the initiative on issues that may ruin 
our  Organization’s  credibility  if  not  dealt  with  fairly. 
That  is  the  case  with  my  country,  which,  admitted 
as  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations  under  resolution 
3385 (XXX), of 12 November 1975, in affirmation of 
the  importance  of  respecting  the  unity  and  territorial 
integrity of the Comoro Archipelago, consisting of four 
islands, still awaits the completion of its decolonization 
process.  In  that  regard,  in  my  address  to  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session (see A/68/PV.10), I 
discussed our new approach to reaching an agreement 
with France on a fair solution that is consistent with the 
principles governing our Organization.
In keeping with the commitment I expressed from 
this rostrum, I would like to inform the Assembly that 
the high joint council proposed by the Paris Declaration 
has  been  established.  This  monitoring  body  began  its 
work in November 2013 and is preparing to meet again 
at the end of this year. At its second meeting, the issues 
it will address will include that of people’s movement 
between  the  archipelago’s  four  islands,  in  an  effort 
to  end  the  tragedies  that  afflict  Comorian  families 
daily  —  tragedies  that  generally  go  unnoticed  by 
international  public  opinion  but  are  deeply  damaging 
to  my  people’s  collective  consciousness.  These  are 
tragedies that are equally troublesome to the conscience 
of France, the great country whose humanistic values 
we share.
In other words, quite apart from the two countries’ 
territorial  dispute,  it  is  extremely  urgent  that  we  end 
this human tragedy through a peaceful and committed 
dialogue  between  the  two  parties,  which  can  only 
benefit  from  United  Nations  support.  That  is  why, 
in  the  spirit  of  the  Paris  Declaration  and  to  pave  the 
way  for  building  a  renewed  relationship  focused  on 
the future, I recently sought the support of the Indian 
Ocean Commission at the fourth summit for Heads of 
State and Government of that subregional organization, 
of  which  France  and  the  Comoros  are  both  members. 
22/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
There,  the  Comorian  Government  put  the  emphasis 
on a spirit of harmony aimed at preserving the bonds 
between our peoples, while reaffirming the importance 
of  respecting  the  principles  of  international  law  in 
settling this 40-year dispute.
towards  achieving 
The purpose of the Assembly’s sixty-ninth session 
is  to  define  a  development  programme  for  the  post-
2015  period,  with,  as  its  chief  aims,  the  eradication 
of poverty and hunger and the promotion of inclusive 
and  sustainable  economic  growth  throughout  the 
world.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
unquestionably created a global covenant of solidarity 
for  our  nation’s  socioeconomic  progress.  Like  many 
countries,  and  like  small  island  developing  States 
in  particular,  the  Union  of  the  Comoros  has  made 
significant  strides 
the  Goals, 
including  improving  maternal  health  and  women’s 
participation  in  political  and  economic  life,  reducing 
malaria  and  infant  mortality,  fighting  HIV/AIDS  and 
ensuring  equality  in  children’s  education.  However, 
there  is  still  much  to  do,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
food  security,  access  to  universal  health  care  and  the 
deterioration  of  the  environment.  Similarly,  energy, 
sustainable  agriculture  and  access  to  drinking  water 
for much of the population are still matters for concern.
That  is  why,  at  a  time  when  my  country  is 
negotiating  entry  into  the  World  Trade  Organization, 
we urge that the MDGs that have still not been reached 
be incorporated into our new sustainable development 
goals.  We  also  call 
for  strengthened  strategic 
partnerships for development, the establishment of an 
equitable regime for international trade, the promotion 
of  domestic  and  foreign  direct  investment  and,  lastly, 
greater  mobilization  and  commitment  in  combating 
climate change. It is also vital to implement promptly 
the recommendations of the various climate summits, 
especially  the  Samoa  Conference  and  the  Climate 
Summit held here in New York on 23 September.
Many indicators over the past few years, such as the 
rate of economic growth in various African countries, 
give reason to hope for a better future for development 
on  our  continent.  However,  Africa  is  having  to  deal 
with  challenges  related  to  conflict  resolution  and 
multiple threats to peace and security that no country 
in  the  world  can  manage  alone,  without  international 
cooperation and support. One example is Ebola, a virus 
that is devastating various West African countries, the 
alarming scale and speed of whose spread represent a 
global threat. We welcome the steps that many countries 
have taken recently to help contain and eradicate this 
epidemic.
It  is  on  my  belief  in  the  crucial  importance  of 
international  solidarity 
in  meeting  our  peoples’ 
ever-growing  needs  that  I  base  my  hopes  of  seeing 
our  Organization  successfully  negotiate 
its  own 
transformation  after  almost  70  years  of  existence. 
Indeed,  it  is  by  rising  to  meet  the  many  current 
challenges  and  fully  assuming  the  demands  of  an 
increasingly interdependent and complex world that we 
will be able together to open up ways of hope for future 
generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Union of 
the Comoros for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Christopher Loeak, President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands.
Mr. Christopher Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Christopher  Loeak, 
President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Loeak:  When  the  United  Nations  was 
founded nearly 70 years ago, it was created to fulfil the 
aspiration  that  peace  and  diplomacy  could  overcome 
self-interest  and  to  ensure  that,  through  effective 
cooperation,  the  world  could  avoid  grave  security 
threats. But the decades since the signing of the Charter 
of the United Nations have been marked by nearly as 
many failures as successes, and many of those failures 
could have been prevented by early action and stronger 
political will.
I am particularly concerned today about the recent 
events  in  Ukraine  and  the  rapid  spread  of  violent 
terrorism  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  even  though  the  Pacific 
Islands sit  halfway around the world,  a  fragile  region 
14-54942
23/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
far away from the global super-Powers. The leaders of 
nations have in our hands the means either to respond 
with  alert  action  or  to  turn  our  backs  on  a  growing 
danger.
Climate  change  poses  no  less  of  a  security  threat 
to  our  Pacific  shores,  and,  indeed,  to  the  world.  As  a 
low-lying country, the Marshall Islands has no higher 
ground  —  nowhere  to  go  —  and  we  will  not  cede  an 
inch to rising waters. Earlier this week, over 120 world 
leaders  met  in  this  Hall  to  signal  our  political  will 
and our commitment. No one should take that lightly. 
Leaders simply cannot afford to play consensus games 
or to squabble.
Yet words and intentions alone do not meet the full 
challenge  before  us.  There  will  be  serious  emissions 
gaps  between  what  the  world  will  do  and  what  needs 
to be done to save my nation. Earlier this week, young 
poet and mother Kathy Jetnil-Kijiner from the Marshall 
Islands stepped onto this very same stage to urge world 
leaders  to  take  action.  Today,  on  behalf  of  the  most 
vulnerable nations — those at the front line — I ask of 
the leaders of the largest nations, the major emitters, in 
Kathy’s very same words, to
“take us all along on your ride. We will not slow 
you down. We will help you win the most important 
race of all, the race to save humanity”.
Like  no  other  global  challenge,  climate  change 
requires  direct  political  ownership  and  eye-to-eye 
engagement  with  leaders.  This  issue,  more  than  any 
other,  will  define  the  Secretary-General’s  legacy  as 
leader of these united nations. I urge him not only to 
continue to show his commendable personal leadership, 
but  also  to  use  his  good  offices  to  help  find  creative 
political solutions.
Everyone — large and small, rich and poor — must 
and will take strong action on emissions. In that regard, 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands strongly supports 
the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  the  United  States 
of America, and many other nations in urging a rapid 
global  phase-down  of  hydrofluorocarbon  gases  under 
the Montreal Protocol. I will personally attend the Paris 
climate  conference  next  December,  so  that  my  voice 
and that of my people can be heard.
Unlike many other fights, the huge global fight to 
address climate change is also a personal one for me. 
It  starts  in  my  own  backyard,  with  my  own  seawall, 
built with my own hands, to push back rising waters, 
save  my  own  future  and  the  future  of  my  children 
and  grandchildren.  But  that  is  not  enough.  We  face  a 
challenge that is nearly beyond belief. As with so many 
other moments in the history of the United Nations, we 
have to ask whether leaders will respond to the climate 
threat  with  courage.  Or  will  some  nations,  including 
some close friends of the Pacific Islands, slide back in 
their efforts, bury their heads in the sand and ignore an 
obvious climate reality? I hope and expect that at the 
coming  Group  of  Twenty  meeting  later  this  year,  the 
world’s largest economies will address climate change 
and the economic consequences of inaction. The Pacific 
island countries demand no less.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Last month, nations around the world gathered in 
Apia  for  the  third  international  conference  on  small 
island  developing  States.  As  hosts  of  the  conference, 
the Government and people of Samoa showed the world 
true Pacific hospitality. As we have for decades, Pacific 
leaders  have  spoken  firmly  —  in  last  year’s  Majuro 
Declaration for Climate Leadership, in this year’s Palau 
Declaration on “The Ocean: Life and Future”, and again 
in  the  Small  Island  Developing  States  Accelerated 
Modalities of Action (SAMOA Pathway).
Our  development  needs  are  beyond  urgent  and 
must  not  to  be  put  off  for  yet  another  year.  While 
the  SAMOA  Pathway  charts  a  course  forward  for 
international  partnership  with  small  islands,  there  is 
too often a mismatch between our national structures 
and  complicated  sources  of  assistance.  It  is  my  hope 
and  expectation  that  the  major  announcements  and 
partnerships  from  the  Samoa  Summit  will  not  lose 
momentum  because  of  poor  connections 
the 
delivery  channels.  Our  needs  are  often  modest,  but 
the 
international  assistance  and 
global  development  somehow  fails  to  reach  our  local 
communities and to meet our unique challenges.
trickle-down  of 
in 
In  the  follow-up  to  the  Samoa  meeting,  starting 
this year I urge the Secretary-General, the international 
system  and  United  Nations  agencies  to  start  thinking 
seriously  about  how  to  work  more  effectively  with 
our  unique  challenges  as  island  nations.  As  Member 
States  design  a  post-2015  development  agenda,  it  is 
important that we focus on a strong outcome that has 
the  flexibility  to  accommodate  the  unique  character 
of  each  nation.  We  cannot  measure  progress  without 
specific benchmarks, but as a small nation we fear that 
24/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
having so many ambitions can be equivalent to having 
none  at  all.  The  answer  is  not  to  be  isolated  within  a 
separate,  unconnected  island  strategy,  but  rather  to 
build the flexibility needed for so many nations to act 
as one.
I  stand  firm  with  my  fellow  Pacific  leaders  and 
nations  around  the  world  who  have  urged  that  there 
be  a  United  Nations  sustainable  development  goal  on 
oceans. I am puzzled as to why some nations close their 
eyes  to  two  thirds  of  the  world’s  surface,  pretending 
that the world’s vast blue waters somehow do not exist. 
The Pacific Ocean and its rich fisheries are our lifeline. 
We  are  the  custodians  of  our  own  vast  resources  on 
behalf of future generations.
We  could  introduce  a  step  change  in  the  world’s 
sustainable fisheries and play our own role to address 
global food security. Distant-water fishing nations must 
engage us as true development partners and work with 
us to change the focus beyond their immediate national 
industry  and  towards  a  global  responsibility.  Recent 
progress  on  sustainable  fisheries  has  become  the 
defining story of the Pacific — it is our empowerment 
and  our  future.  The  oceans  are  an  equally  valuable 
resource  for  alternate  sustainable  energy,  including 
ocean thermal energy conversion.
Everyone  should  participate  on  the  international 
stage.  The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  supports 
Taiwan’s  meaningful  participation  in  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies  and  mechanisms, 
including 
the  World  Health  Organization,  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  as  well 
as  in  key  regional  economic  integration  mechanisms. 
Furthermore,  I  call  for  Taiwan’s  involvement  in  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  urge  recognition 
of  the  important  assistance  provided  to  my  country 
in health, education and energy. The Marshall Islands 
welcomes  Taiwan’s  efforts 
to  reduce  cross-Strait 
tensions  and  urges  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations to recognize and encourage such progress.
As  a  former  United  Nations  Trust  Territory,  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands has a unique legacy, 
shared by only a very few in this Hall. It was the United 
Nations that helped set us on a path to independence, but 
it was also the United Nations that explicitly authorized 
the  67  nuclear  tests  conducted  in  our  nation  between 
1946 and 1958. Our own history bears the burden and 
the contemporary impacts of those tests. Our suffering 
could have been prevented by the United Nations — if 
only its Members had listened. Like many other nations, 
the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  believes  that 
awareness of the catastrophic consequences of nuclear 
weapons  must  underpin  all  approaches  and  efforts 
towards nuclear disarmament.
Those  facts  speak  for 
themselves  and  were 
recognized two years ago by the United Nations Special 
Rapporteur. We look forward to addressing those issues 
further  during  our  participation  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council  universal  periodic  review  next  year.  For  the 
survival of humanity it is essential that nuclear weapons 
are  never  used  again,  under  any  circumstances.  The 
universal  way  to  accomplish  that  is  through  the  total 
elimination of such weapons. It should be our collective 
goal as the United Nations to not only stop the spread 
of  nuclear  weapons,  but  also  to  pursue  the  peace  and 
security of a world without them.
This year, I look forward to a United Nations that 
better  recognizes  the  true  global  challenges  of  today 
and  moves  beyond  old  political  cobwebs  into  our 
dynamic century.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Christopher Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Kiribati
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President, Head of Government 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Kiribati.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
14-54942
25/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
President Tong: I bring everyone warm greetings 
from the people of Kiribati, on whose behalf I am once 
again privileged to address this body. In my country we 
begin  all  formal  addresses  by  conferring  blessings  of 
peace and good health on all present, so let me say Kam 
na bane ni Mauri.
I  echo  the  sentiments  conveyed  by  previous 
speakers  in  congratulating  the  President  on  assuming 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session.  I  am  confident  that  under  his  able 
stewardship,  our  Organization  will  continue  its  work 
towards improving the security and quality of life for 
all  members  of  our  global  community,  in  particular 
the most vulnerable. Let me also take this opportunity 
to  acknowledge  with  appreciation  the  commendable 
leadership  of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  his 
guidance and stewardship over the past year.
I also wish to commend the unwavering commitment 
and  hard  work  of  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  has  served  as  an  able  navigator  of  our 
family’s  ship,  steering  the  United  Nations  through 
the  diverse  and  complex  realities  and  the  myriad  of 
challenges  facing  our  peoples  and  nations  around  the 
world.  In  particular,  I  wish  to  commend  his  sterling 
leadership  and  demonstrated  personal  commitment  to 
the need to focus global attention on those who are most 
vulnerable and who are on the front line of the many 
major challenges facing us today as a global community.
We  meet  at  a  very  critical  time  in  the  history  of 
multilateralism. The global community is in the process 
of  shaping  a  post-2015  development  framework.  We 
are hearing stronger calls for United Nations reforms, 
for reassessing the way we do things in our family of 
nations.  The  membership  is  calling  for  a  move  away 
from  business  as  usual  and  for  transformational 
changes.  We  welcome  the  theme  of  the  sixty-ninth 
session  —  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing  a 
transformative post-2015 development agenda” — as it 
aptly captures the call for changes by the membership.
Earlier this week, on Tuesday, we concluded one of 
the most successful conferences ever convened by the 
Secretary-General on climate change. We applaud the 
leadership  and  the  Secretary-General’s  very  positive 
initiative. Those of us on the front line of the impacts 
of climate change welcome the renewed focus and the 
rallying by the United Nations membership behind the 
Secretary-General’s call for ambitious announcements 
and  commitments.  The  real  challenge,  however,  is 
in  being  able  to  translate  those  commitments  and 
announcements into action.
Three  weeks  ago,  Samoa  hosted 
the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States.  The  United  Nations  and  those  who  attended 
declared it a resounding success. We thank our gracious 
hosts  —  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Samoa. 
Those very successful conferences signify recognition 
by the United Nations and the membership of the need 
to highlight the special case of those on the front line 
of sustainable development, to refocus global attention 
to  the  prevailing  socioeconomic  and  environmental 
challenges  that  continue  to  constrain  efforts  by  small 
island developing States (SIDS) to achieve sustainable 
development. That is particularly pertinent now, as the 
international  community  is  in  the  process  of  shaping 
the post-2015 development agenda.
The  Small  Island  Developing  States  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  provides  a  clear  blueprint  of 
how  the  SIDS  want  to  move  forward  in  their  efforts 
to  achieve  sustainable  development.  The  real  test  of 
the  success  of  the  Samoa  Conference,  however,  is  in 
the  adoption  of  outcomes  into  genuine  and  durable 
partnerships  that  can  translate  into  activities  on  the 
ground that will deliver tangible benefits to our people.
While SIDS heard the plight of some of the most 
vulnerable, other United Nations processes are talking 
about the graduation of those countries from the least 
developed countries category. We believe that there is 
a  contradiction  here.  If  we  as  a  family  of  nations  do 
not  act  and  do  not  work  in  partnership  with  those  on 
the front line of major challenges, whatever they may 
be, then we will have failed in our efforts. I would like 
to reiterate our deepest appreciation to the Secretary-
General 
for  his  demonstrated  commitment  and 
leadership  in  focusing  the  United  Nations  and  global 
attention on the plight of the most needy, in alleviating 
poverty,  addressing  the  Ebola  epidemic,  raising  the 
voices  of  youth  and  women  and  their  participation  in 
development, ending gender-based violence, promoting 
peace and security, and acting against climate change 
now.
As  I  have  highlighted  on  numerous  occasions 
in  the  past,  including  earlier  this  week,  the  issue 
of  climate  change  remains  the  most  single  pressing 
challenge  for  us  in  Kiribati.  Climate  change  is  an 
existential challenge for low-lying island countries like 
mine,  Tuvalu,  the  Marshall  Islands,  the  Maldives  and 
26/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
Tokelau,  and  I  again  call  for  urgent  global  action  to 
help those countries adapt and for international legally 
binding  commitments  to  cut  greenhouse  emissions. 
The global community cannot afford to not listen to our 
stories and to the plight of our peoples. Our plight is the 
plight of the global community, further down the line. 
Everyone’s future is on the line.
I have just returned from an Arctic expedition, to 
the  North  Pole  —  hence,  my  loss  of  voice.  I  am  still 
overwhelmed today by what I witnessed with my own 
eyes.  The  melting  of  the  massive  sheets  of  ice  in  the 
Arctic region due to climate change will not only have 
severe impacts on the lives of people in that region but 
will also result in the demise of future generations in 
other parts of the globe, in particular our most vulnerable 
atoll island nations. It has been an eye-opener for me 
to spend time in the past week in polar conditions. It 
gave me a wider perspective of the immensity of what 
is at stake beyond our own immediate concerns. That 
visit to the Arctic region highlighted the stark reality 
of the very direct connection between the destruction 
of that polar region to what is happening to us in the 
equatorial region, and the very unlikely possibility of 
ever reversing that process once it has gone so far.
On Tuesday we heard the voice of a very talented 
young  woman,  Ms.  Kathy  Jetnil-Kijiner,  a  poet  from 
our part of the world, from the Marshall Islands. Her 
voice represents the apprehension, the concern and the 
voice  of  mothers  from  low-lying  countries  like  ours 
who  lament  what  the  future  holds  for  their  children 
and their children’s children. Surely, we as leaders and 
the mothers like Kathy and millions of others around 
the  world  share,  or  should  share,  the  same  ultimate 
goal  —  to  leave  to  our  children  and  grandchildren  a 
future  that  is  better  than  what  we  inherited  from  our 
forefathers. We from Kiribati salute Kathy for reaching 
out  and  for  touching  the  hearts  of  leaders  who  heard 
her speak. May she touch many hearts and move many 
more hearts.
The  very  sad  reality  is  that  we  are  just  not  on 
course  to  achieve  that.  It  is  glaringly  obvious  that 
we  need  to  do  things  differently.  We  owe  it  to  those 
whom  we  represent  —  our  people.  For  us,  climate 
change is not an event in the future. It is an event that 
we  are  dealing  with  today.  We  simply  cannot  talk  of 
sustainable development without talking about climate 
change. Earlier this week, I appealed to fellow leaders, 
and will do so again today, for all of us to work together 
against  climate  change  and  to  move  towards  binding 
international  agreements,  towards  a  clean  energy 
future, a healthier greener future for our children and a 
healthier, greener home for our one planet, Earth.
What are we doing? Let us accept full responsibility 
for our own development to improve the well-being of 
our people into the future. We are determined to achieve 
that  by  finding  national  solutions  to  overcome  the 
enormous  development  challenges  that  constrain  our 
efforts. My Government has mainstreamed sustainable 
development  principles  into  our  national  development 
plan,  policies  and  strategies.  Climate  change  and 
adaptation  measures  are  integrated  into  our  national 
budgeting  process  and  development  programmes  to 
strengthen disaster risk management. We have adopted 
an inclusive, whole-of-government and whole-of-nation 
approach aimed at addressing climate change impacts 
and strengthening our resilience.
Our  strategy  for  migration  with  dignity  is  an 
investment in the education of our people and upping 
the skills of our young population to equip them with 
the  educational  qualifications  and  employable  skills 
that will enable them to migrate with dignity to other 
countries as a matter of choice and, in the worst-case 
scenario, when our islands can no longer sustain human 
life.
Last July, along with other frontline low-lying atoll 
island States — Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, Maldives 
and Tokelau — Kiribati initiated the establishment of 
the  Coalition  of  Low-lying  Atoll  Nations  on  Climate 
Change  (CANCC).  The  Coalition  held  its  inaugural 
meeting  in  Tarawa  in  July  and  produced  an  outcome 
document  that  embraces  the  Coalition’s  goals  and 
vision  for  building  the  resilience  of  our  people  in  the 
face of the challenges of climate change. The initiative 
is  prompted  by  the  concerns  we  share  regarding  the 
increasing  severity  of  those  challenges  and  the  slow 
pace of global action to address them. Our Coalition of 
nations  continues  to  support  the  ongoing  negotiations 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change,  but  we  also  emphasize  that  urgent 
action  must  be  taken  now  to  assist  our  countries  and 
all vulnerable communities to adapt to the impacts of 
climate change.
The Coalition initiative demonstrates our political 
commitment  and  determination  to  find  innovative 
solutions  to  the  threats  we  face  from  climate  change. 
We  are  looking  at  building  up  our  low  islands  and 
climate-proofing  our 
infrastructure,  and  at  our 
14-54942
27/29
A/69/PV.13 
26/09/2014
development efforts to prepare and build the resilience 
of our people in the face of the challenge.
We cannot do this alone, and we acknowledge the 
support of our development partners and regional and 
international  organizations  that  have  assisted  us  and 
continue to support our efforts to address the challenge 
of climate change. However, much more remains to be 
done,  including  making  climate-financing  facilities 
more  accessible  and  flexible,  as  the  solutions  and 
options  for  facing  this  challenge  vary  from  nation  to 
nation.
on 
the 
hinges 
development 
The  ocean  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  the  sustainable 
development  of  my  country.  Our  vision  for  achieving 
sustainable 
blue 
economy  —  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
management  of  our  marine  and  ocean  resources. 
While  we  in  Kiribati  have  been  labelled  a  small 
island developing State, we are in fact a “large ocean” 
State  that  spans  an  ocean  area  of  3.5  million  square 
kilometres.  The  ocean  has  been  an  integral  part  of 
our life since time immemorial. While it now poses a 
serious threat to our survival from sea-level rise, it also 
provides immense opportunities, not only as a source 
of daily sustenance, but also as a means through which 
we  can  realize  sustainable  development  and  achieve 
livelihoods for our people.
Our exclusive economic zone (EEZ) is one of the 
largest  in  the  world  and  is  home  to  abundant  tuna 
resources  that  provide  rich  fishing  grounds  for  our 
distant  fishing  partners.  We  estimate  that  the  total 
annual  landed  value  of  the  fisheries  industry  in  our 
EEZ  is  approximately  $4  billion.  Yet  only  5  to  8  per 
cent  of  that  comes  to  us  as  resource  owners,  through 
licensing fees. We have to ask, where is the equity and 
fairness in that?
There  is  a  need  to  review  and  restructure  the 
nature of public and private partnerships in the fishing 
industry. A more equitable partnership based on mutual 
respect,  goodwill,  fairness  and  accountability  will  go 
a  long  way  in  providing  an  enabling  environment  for 
sustainable development.
My Government is working to maximize the returns 
from our large fisheries resource through value-adding 
fisheries  development,  including  on-shore  processing. 
Our  limited  capacity  in  terms  of  capital,  technical 
know-how,  a  lack  of  infrastructure,  distance  from 
commercial and trade centres and air and sea transport 
challenges  stands  in  the  way  of  our  progress  towards 
that development aspiration. Direct foreign investment 
and  genuine  partnership  are  therefore  a  way  forward 
in  that  regard.  I  am  confident  that  such  partnership, 
forged  around  an  equitable  distribution  of  gains,  will 
be the development model going forward, with mutual 
gains to be made.
Human  activities  have  been  responsible  for  the 
accelerated degradation of our global environment, in 
the  pursuit  of  short-term  economic  gains  without  due 
regard to the health of our oceans and our environment. 
Never  in  human  history  has  the  health  of  our  oceans 
and  planet  Earth  been  so  challenged.  We  all  have  a 
shared responsibility and obligation with regard to the 
protection  of  the  ocean  from  further  degradation  and 
the sustainable management of its rich biodiversity.
(PIPA) 
My  country  recognizes  that  shared  responsibility 
and, in 2008, established the Phoenix Islands Protected 
in  partnership  with  Conservation 
Area 
International  and 
the  New  England  Aquarium. 
UNESCO  has  inscribed  PIPA  on  its  list  of  World 
Heritage  Sites.  In  January  2015,  we  will  completely 
close  off  the  Phoenix  Islands  Protected  Area  to  all 
commercial fishing activity across an area of more than 
410,000 square kilometres, representing 11 per cent of 
our total EEZ — about the size of the state of California.
PIPA is a rich fishing ground, so its total closure 
on  31  December  this  year  will  entail  loss  of  much-
needed revenue for Kiribati from fishing licence fees. 
For us, it is a major but necessary short-term sacrifice 
for the long-term health of our ocean and for sustaining 
fish  stocks  for  global  food  security.  It  demonstrates 
our political commitment to the importance of marine 
conservation and the sustainable management of marine 
resources. It is our contribution to humankind and the 
common good of all.
But the announcement of complete closure of this 
vast  marine  protected  area  will  amount  to  nothing 
without monitoring and enforcement. We have therefore 
established  a  PIPA  trust  fund  to  support  our  national 
efforts  in  managing  PIPA  and  monitoring  that  vast 
marine protected area. We thank those who share our 
vision and have contributed to the fund. We encourage 
our partners who have not yet done so to join with us in 
that massive undertaking.
The challenges we face in the twenty-first century 
have taken on a new dimension. It is no longer a fight 
to  save  a  species  here  and  a  collapsed  stock  there; 
the  fight  has  become  larger.  It  is  now  about  how  to 
28/29 
14-54942
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.13
ensure the survival of whole peoples — communities, 
villages, cities and nations. Entire ecosystems hang in 
the balance, the ecosystems that provide us with the air 
we breathe, the water we drink and much of the food we 
eat. It is time to view our global development in a whole 
new way. It is time to change business as usual. Indeed, 
a  paradigm  shift  and  transformational  development 
approaches are necessary, starting from within our own 
nations  and  moving  out  to  regional  and  international 
multilateral processes, institutions and partnerships.
It is high time we recognize that the new challenges 
require that we draw on all the resources available to the 
global community. Development and global challenges 
do not belong to Governments alone. Let us bring in our 
youth, our women, civil society, the private sector and 
our traditional institutions. Let us be inclusive. Let all 
those who have a contribution to make make it.
We  welcome  the  inclusion  of  Taiwan  in  the 
international processes of the World Health Assembly. 
We hope that a similar inclusive approach will prevail 
in respect of our other international institutions and the 
United Nations processes, where Taiwan and all those 
that can participate and contribute meaningfully for the 
good of humankind can be brought in to do so.
We  join  in  the  broad  international  condemnation 
of criminal extremism and express the hope that such 
destabilizing tensions in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region 
and elsewhere can be settled through peaceful means. 
As  distant  as  we  think  we  are  from  the  epicentres  of 
such  events,  they  nonetheless  impact  on  us  in  a  very 
real way in our part of the world.
In  my  country,  even  before  the  advent  of  climate 
change,  the  atoll  environment  was  indeed  harsh.  Life 
on the low-lying atoll islands has always been difficult. 
We  have  always  worked  on  the  principle  of  working 
together  as  part  of  a  community  on  the  premise  that 
there will be some challenges that are larger than us and 
need  collaboration.  The  age-old  test  of  our  resilience 
and our strength as a community is defined by the well-
being of the weakest member of our community. For us, 
sustainable development must be inclusive. It requires 
sincerity, goodwill, respect and the willingness to move 
a little more slowly so as to assist and bring everyone 
on board in order to move forward together.
I would like to bring those principles to the United 
Nations.  The  pursuit  of  sustainable  development 
and  lasting  peace  and  security  calls  for  and  requires 
sacrifice. 
requires 
collective and decisive action. It also requires political 
commitment  and  political  leadership  from  all  of  us 
here, for the time to act is now.
inclusiveness. 
It 
It 
requires 
On that note, I leave members with the traditional 
blessing: may health, peace and prosperity be with us 
all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.
14-54942
29/29
