United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
48th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 11 November 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 123
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/228)
Notes by the Secretary-General (A/69/164 
and A/69/171)
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization
(c)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/69/L.14)
(e)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community
(f)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Central European Initiative
Draft resolution A/69/L.8
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Collective Security Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/69/L.13)
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries
(i)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Community of Central African States
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/69/L.11)
(l)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Eurasian Economic Community
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
International Organization of la Francophonie
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Latin American and Caribbean Economic System
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States
Draft resolution (A/69/L.9)
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Democracy and Economic 
Development — GUAM
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons
Draft resolution (A/69/L.16)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-61840 (E)
*1461840*
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
(r)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe
(s)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States
(t)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
(u) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum
(v) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/69/L.15)
(w) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/69/L.12)
(x) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Southern African Development Community
(y) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  United  Nations  and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States
Draft resolution (A/69/L.10)
The President: Before we proceed, I would like to 
inform members that with regard to sub-items (k) and (v) 
of agenda item 123, entitled respectively “Cooperation 
between 
the  Economic 
Cooperation Organization” and “Cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission 
for 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization”,  the  consideration  of  draft  resolutions 
A/69/L.11 and A/69/L.15 is postponed to a later date to 
allow their sponsors to conduct further consultations.
Statement by the President
Regional  and  subregional  organizations  have 
been  important  actors  in  their  respective  regions  for 
many  years.  As  is  clearly  recognized  and  articulated 
in Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, 
as  well  as  in  several  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council 
is  an 
important aspect of the work of the United Nations. The 
Secretary-General’s  report  (A/69/228)  illustrates  how 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  subregional  organizations  now  plays  a  critical 
role  in  virtually  every  area  of  the  Organization’s 
mandate. In particular, the report highlights the depth 
regional  cooperation 
resolutions, 
of  cooperation  achieved  between  the  United  Nations 
and  its  regional  partners  across  the  full  range  of 
mandate  areas,  from  humanitarian  assistance  and  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  to 
development and the protection of human rights.
in 
The challenges facing the United Nations in today’s 
world  are  indeed  complex  and  multidimensional, 
and  the  Organization  cannot  deal  successfully  with 
most  of  them  alone.  Furthermore,  there  is  increasing 
involvement  by  non-State  actors 
international 
affairs.  In  these  changing  times,  the  unique  role  that 
regional and subregional organizations have to play in 
addressing some of the world’s most persistent problems 
is as important as ever. Those organizations are diverse, 
with distinct approaches, structures and priorities. The 
international  community  at  large  stands  to  benefit  a 
great deal from increased interaction and coordination 
between  such  organizations  and  the  United  Nations 
in  the  implementation  of  their  respective  mandates. 
Strengthening 
is  strategic  for 
promoting  the  principles  of  comparative  advantages, 
complementarity and burden-sharing.
those  partnerships 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  already  has 
a  proven  track  record  of  tangible  results.  In  that 
context,  the  General  Assembly  has  taken  proactive 
steps  to  enhance  such  partnerships  through  a  number 
of initiatives. To date, some 25 different regional and 
subregional  organizations  have  established  formal 
cooperative relationships with the United Nations. I am 
convinced  of  the  critical  importance  of  strengthening 
our  strategic  partnership  with  those  organizations, 
which  is  why  it  is  one  of  my  key  priorities  for  this 
General  Assembly  session.  Indeed,  I  am  heartened 
to  note  that  support  for  such  cooperation  has  gained 
momentum and relevance in recent times.
As  we  formulate 
the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  regional  and  subregional  organizations  are 
uniquely  placed  to  contribute  to  and  support  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  in  that  process.  In  the 
area  of  peace  and  security,  regional  and  subregional 
organizations  are  distinctly  positioned  to  understand 
the root causes and dynamics of issues in their regions, 
while  often  possessing  a  greater  depth  of  knowledge 
of  the  parties  involved.  That  expertise  is  critical  to 
conflict prevention, mediation, the peaceful settlement 
of disputes and peacebuilding efforts. The specialized 
knowledge that regional and subregional organizations 
can  bring  to  the  forefront  also  has  an  instrumental 
2/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
role  in  the  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance,  the 
promotion  of  development  and  the  advancement  of 
critical infrastructure.
into account the specifics of each region, the mandates 
and  objectives  of  the  organizations  involved  and  the 
interests of Member States.
There are many examples of successful cooperation 
with regional and subregional organizations that we can 
draw on, including several from my own home continent 
of  Africa.  For  Africa,  partnerships  with  the  United 
Nations in the area of peace and security are some of 
the most visible. Collaborative efforts to promote peace 
and security in the Sudan, Somalia, Mali and the Central 
African  Republic  have  already  yielded  some  positive 
results. Recently the United Nations, the African Union 
and the Economic Community of West African States 
undertook a joint mission in response to the situation 
in  Burkina  Faso.  The  benefits  of  such  cooperation 
are  further  illustrated  by  the  Peace,  Security  and 
Cooperation  Framework  for  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo and the Region, and the same is true of the 
formulation of the African Union’s Agenda 2063, which 
is  expected  to  chart  Africa’s  50-year  strategic  vision 
and action plan for socioeconomic transformation.
Beyond Africa, the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations has forged a strong partnership with the United 
Nations,  thanks  to  the  active  commitment  of  both 
partners,  especially  in  the  context  of  comprehensive 
partnerships.  The  Caribbean  Community  and  the 
United  Nations  are  also  working  on  a  strategy  for 
future  coordination  efforts,  taking  up  a  number  of 
shared  thematic  priorities,  including  climate  change 
and transnational organized crime. The United Nations 
and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation have also 
adopted a matrix on joint activities that will serve as a 
guide for effective cooperation over the next biennium.
Those experiences, along with many other examples, 
can provide useful lessons on how more predictable and 
mutually  reinforcing  partnerships  can  be  established 
going forward. In my view, those lessons include, first, 
respect  for  regional  ownership  and  priority-setting, 
secondly, the flexible and innovative application of the 
principle  of  subsidiarity,  thirdly,  mutual  respect  and 
adherence  to  the  principle  of  comparative  advantage, 
and  fourthly,  a  division  of  labour  underpinned  by 
complementarity.
It  is  essential  that  the  United  Nations  continue 
to  strengthen 
its  partnerships  with  regional  and 
subregional actors to foster the implementation of the 
Organization’s  mandates  and  the  overall  objectives 
enshrined  in  the  Charter.  Those  efforts  should  take 
We must take the following important steps: first, 
work  for  closer  cooperation  between  the  Secretariat 
and regional organizations to explore ways to establish 
more 
responsive  partnerships;  secondly,  enhance 
consultations between the organs of the United Nations 
and  regional  organizations;  and  thirdly,  effectively 
and  systematically  address  the  issue  of  predictable, 
sustainable  and  flexible  funding 
through  United 
Nations  assessed  contributions  for  peace-support 
operations  undertaken  by 
regional  organizations 
such the African Union, with the authorization of the 
Security  Council.  Beyond  their  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations, regional and subregional actors could 
also greatly benefit from enhanced partnership and the 
sharing of experiences among themselves.
With so many success stories to draw on, this is an 
opportune time to explore ways to further harness the 
benefits of strengthening United Nations partnerships 
with  regional  and  subregional  organizations.  In  that 
context,  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  in 
May 2015 I will convene a high-level thematic debate 
on  strengthening  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  and  subregional  organizations. 
I urge all members to participate in that event, which 
will be an opportunity to examine past successes while 
laying  the  foundations  for  fruitful  cooperative  efforts 
in the future.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Randy  Bell,  Director 
of  the  International  Data  Centre  Division  of  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  to  present  the 
report of the Preparatory Commission.
for 
Mr.  Bell 
for 
(Preparatory  Commission 
the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization): 
I am honoured to address the Assembly under the agenda 
sub-item “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization”.  I  am  also 
pleased  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  Executive 
Secretary, Mr. Lassina Zerbo, who is currently engaged 
with the Integrated Field Exercise 2014 (IFE14), which 
is  under  way  in  Jordan.  When  the  IFE14  is complete, 
it  will  represent  the  largest  and  most  comprehensive 
on-site  inspection  exercise  we  have  ever  conducted.  I 
14-61840
3/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
will  address  that  important  activity  in  further  detail 
later.
The  United  Nations  has  worked  tirelessly  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security  through 
collective  action.  Reducing  the  threat  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction through multilateral non-proliferation 
and disarmament measures, such as the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT),  has  been  a  crucial 
part of these efforts. Active and sustained cooperation 
among  States  and  between  States  and  international 
organizations  is  vital  to  success  in  advancing  these 
objectives.
Since the CTBT was opened for signature in 1996, the 
United Nations has consistently supported its effective 
implementation  and  its  steady  progress  towards  entry 
into force. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s leadership 
on  the  CTBT  has  been  instrumental  in  strengthening 
the  cooperative  security  structures 
that  promote 
international peace and stability and has reinforced the 
Treaty as a rallying point for nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation. The draft resolution on cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Commission 
(A/69/L.15)  is  an  embodiment  of  the  importance  of 
such cooperation. It is a necessity if we are to realize 
the longstanding international objective of a world free 
from the threat of nuclear weapons.
I  represent  the  organization  whose  mission  is  to 
bring an end to nuclear test explosions once and for all, 
by  anyone,  anywhere  —  a  goal  that  has  been  on  the 
international agenda for more than six decades. During 
the Cold War, strategic competition among the nuclear 
Powers  drove  scientists  and  technicians  to  develop 
smaller and more destructive weapons, to be delivered 
by  bombers  and  all  types  of  missiles,  some  of  which 
carried  multiple  warheads.  The  development  of  those 
sophisticated  weapons  systems  necessitated  extensive 
nuclear testing programmes to validate the designs of 
the warheads and delivery vehicles. Between 1945 and 
1990, more than 2,000 nuclear tests were carried out, at 
a rate of nearly 500 per decade. However, the conclusion 
of  the  CTBT  and  the  steadily  reinforced  global  norm 
against nuclear testing have all but completely relegated 
that dangerous legacy of the Cold War to the annals of 
history.
However,  the  CTBT  has  yet  to  enter  into  force. 
The  good  news  is  that  the  Treaty  is  working.  The 
verification system has the proven capability to detect 
nuclear explosions at a fraction of the yield of the first 
nuclear  weapon  test  in  the  desert  near  Alamogordo 
in  July  1945.  The  international  community  forcefully 
condemns any violation of this norm today, as has been 
the  case  with  each  of  the  announced  nuclear  tests  by 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — the only 
State to conduct a nuclear test in this millennium.
With 183 signatory States and 163 ratifying States, 
the CTBT is one of the most adhered-to instruments in 
its field. Nearly 90 per cent of the Treaty’s verification 
system  is  complete,  giving  it  a  truly  global  reach. 
Nonetheless, the eight remaining annex 2 States must 
ratify  the  Treaty  for  its  entry  into  force.  Without  a 
legally  binding  and  effectively  verifiable  test  ban  in 
place,  the  international  community  has  no  insurance 
against  a  return  to  an  era  of  unrestrained  nuclear 
testing,  which  would  have  disastrous  implications  for 
regional stability and international peace and security.
The  final  chapter  on  nuclear  testing  must  be 
brought  to  a  close  through  the  codification  of  the 
Treaty  into  international  law.  We  have  to  draw  that 
irrevocable  line  in  the  sand.  History  teaches  us  that 
voluntary  moratoriums  are  inadequate.  Between  1958 
and  1961,  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union 
adhered to a voluntary moratorium on nuclear-weapon 
tests. A breakdown in test-ban negotiations and rising 
geopolitical tensions resulted in the two super-Powers 
carrying  out  more  nuclear  tests  in  1961  than  in  the 
whole of the previous decade.
Without the CTBT in force, there is no firm legal 
barrier  preventing  the  resumption  of  unrestrained 
nuclear testing that could potentially trigger a new arms 
race, which would inevitably involve more players than 
during the Cold War. That would dramatically increase 
tensions  and  instability  in  the  international  system. 
We must not allow that to happen. As an organization, 
we  are  doing  everything  we  can  to  prevent  such  an 
outcome. As outlined in the Preparatory Commission’s 
midterm  strategy  2014-2017,  we  are  focused  on  two 
overarching  missions:  establishing  a  credible  and 
trustworthy verification system and providing support 
and preparation for the Treaty’s entry into force.
I am pleased to report that, in the two years since 
the previous Executive Secretary addressed the General 
Assembly (see A/67/PV.40), there has been substantial 
progress in the development of the Treaty’s verification 
system.  The  Commission  has  come  within  sight  of 
fulfilling its mandate. The commitment and hard work 
by  a  relatively  small  but  determined  group  of  people 
4/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
has resulted in bringing the CTBT verification system 
close to full readiness. To date, there are 278 certified 
stations in the international monitoring system (IMS) 
and another 40 installed or under construction, bringing 
the verification system close to 90 per cent complete. 
Importantly,  we  have  also  exceeded  90  per  cent  data 
availability in the first half of 2014. 
The  International  Data  Centre  (IDC)  —  the 
division  that  I  head  —  continuously  processes  and 
analyses  the  data  registered  at  monitoring  stations. 
These  data  are  shared  with  1,300  institutions  in  120 
countries  in  an  all-inclusive,  democratic,  transparent 
and non-discriminatory manner, thereby fostering trust 
in and credibility of the system and its data. Alongside 
the steady instalment and certification of IMS stations, 
the  IDC  has  continued  to  strengthen  its  capabilities, 
resulting  in  lower  detection  thresholds  for  events 
worldwide.
Member  States  have  made  enormous  investments 
in  the  system.  Not  only  have  member  States  invested 
nearly  $1  billion,  they  have  also  collectively  invested 
the  time,  energy  and  intellect  of  thousands  of  their 
scientists  and  experts.  It  is  imperative  that  those 
investments  be  protected.  Moreover,  as  more  stations 
come  online  and  the  volume  of  data  increases,  it  is 
critical  that  the  international  community  continue  to 
recognize  the  importance  of  sustaining  the  IMS  and 
IDC  operations  in  order  to  improve  the  provision  of 
data, products and services.
Maintaining readiness to provide a timely response 
to  suspicious  events  directly  supports  the  overall 
objective of achieving the Treaty’s entry into force. In 
other  words,  continuing  to  demonstrate  the  effective 
and  efficient  detection  capabilities  of  the  verification 
system shows the added value that the Treaty provides  
to  ratifying  States  as  well  as  to  those  considering  its 
ratification. 
That has been demonstrated by the performance of 
the system in detecting the nuclear tests announced by 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  In  2006, 
the identified test-area error ellipse was approximately 
880 square kilometres, whereas in 2013 the increased 
accuracy  of  our  system  allowed  us  to  narrow  the  test 
area down to only 181 square kilometres, well within 
the  1,000  square  kilometres  that  the  Treaty  mandates 
for an on-site inspection. In addition, analysis of xenon 
gases  detected  by  the  IMS  noble  gas  station  in  Japan 
55  days  after  the  2013  nuclear  test  announced  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was consistent 
with a late release of gas from that test site. Even with a 
comparatively small estimated yield, the 2013 event was 
detected by 94 IMS seismic stations and two infrasound 
stations.  Eighty-eight  of  those  stations  were  used  in 
determining the event location. The more stations that 
are  used  in  locating,  the  smaller  the  size  of  the  error 
ellipse, and that results in an increased probability of a 
successful on-site inspection.
As  previously  mentioned,  consistent  progress  has 
also been made in the area of on-site inspection, which 
is  the  CTBT’s  ultimate  verification  measure.  We  are 
well under way to meeting our strategic goal to achieve 
on-site inspection readiness at entry into force.
The  second  fully  fledged  on-site 
inspection 
simulation, the Integrated Field Exercise 2014, is under 
way on the shores of the Dead Sea in Jordan as I speak. 
This  exercise  is  unprecedented  in  a  number  of  ways. 
Almost 150 tons of equipment was shipped to Jordan, 
and  more  than  200  experts  have  travelled  from  all 
over the globe to take part in the event. An exercise of 
such scope can be carried out only through concerted 
efforts from across the entire organization. I also wish 
to  highlight  that  this  enormous  undertaking  would 
not  have  been  possible  without  the  critical  support  of 
Jordan, the voluntary contributions by Member States 
of  equipment  and  expertise  and  the  Member  States’ 
decision  to  make  available  more  than  $10  million  for 
the exercise.
When  the  IMS  is  combined  with  an  effective 
on-site inspection regime, no potential violator would 
be  confident  that  a  nuclear  test  could  go  undetected. 
We have proven that the Treaty is verifiable through an 
international monitoring system that is unique, reliable 
and efficient. And we have built a deterrent that gives 
States peace of mind.
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  verification  regime 
remains  current,  we  must  also  strive  to  identify  key 
scientific  and  technological  developments  that  could 
affect its future operations. We have sought to strengthen 
our relationship with the broader scientific community 
through the Science and Technology Conferences that 
are  organized  for  scientists  and  experts  from  a  broad 
range of disciplines related to nuclear test monitoring. 
The  conferences  attract  participants  from  national 
agencies involved in the CTBTO’s work, as well as those 
from  independent  academic  and  research  institutions. 
Members  of  the  diplomatic  community,  international 
14-61840
5/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
media and civil society are also actively participating. 
Four such conferences have been held to date in Vienna, 
and the next will take place in June 2015.
We recognize the true value of the investment with 
which we were entrusted. As an organization operating 
at  the  cutting  edge  of  scientific  and  technological 
knowledge, we are determined to share that knowledge 
with  our  member  States.  This  unique  verification 
system  offers  a  host  of  opportunities  for  scientific 
research. Whether it is in the area of tsunami warning, 
aviation  safety,  climate  monitoring  or  marine-life 
research, the Treaty’s monitoring technologies provide 
obvious benefits. We see this investment as a platform 
for scientific knowledge and capacity development.
I would like to stress that this scientific use of IMS 
data is not merely altruistic; it helps us do our monitoring 
mission better. When scientists and technologists make 
use of IMS data for other purposes, they discover better 
ways to remove noise and interference from our data so 
that those involved in nuclear test monitoring can look 
deeper into the data and detect ever smaller events.
The Commission is also providing assistance on the 
legislative issues arising from the Treaty and is working 
closely  with  member  States  to  set  up  their  national 
data  centres.  Through  the  provision  of  the  necessary 
training,  technical  infrastructure  and  equipment,  we 
ensure  that  member  States  enjoy  the  benefits  of  this 
unique organization. Such capacity-building enhances 
the  scientific  and  technical  capabilities  of  member 
States, and that has a spillover effect into other areas 
of development.
Another  key 
focus  of  our  organization 
is 
empowering  the  next  generation  of  CTBT  experts  to 
ensure  the  Treaty’s  verifiability  well  into  the  twenty-
first century and beyond. That is the predominant vision 
behind the Commission’s integrated capacity-building 
activities,  which  promote  active  engagement  with 
current and next-generation CTBT experts, particularly 
in the developing world and among women. That vision 
is committed to applying science for peace.
The  Executive  Secretary  has  been  holding 
extensive consultations over the last few months with 
senior officials from nearly all States that have not yet 
ratified  or  signed  the  Treaty,  including  all  but  one  of 
the  annex  2  States.  He  has  found  greater  engagement 
with  regard  to  the  establishment  and  operation  of  the 
verification system, and greater political commitment. 
In addition, we have seen steady progress in the Treaty’s 
universalization.  Brunei-Darussalam,  Chad,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Iraq,  Niue  and,  more  recently,  the  Republic 
of  the  Congo  have  all  ratified  since  the  last  time  this 
agenda  item  was  addressed  in  the  General  Assembly. 
Several other countries, including Angola and Yemen, 
are  close  to  completing  their  ratification  processes. 
On  behalf  of  the  Executive  Secretary,  I  would  like  to 
commend them for their commitment to the vision of 
a  nuclear-test-free  world. Nonetheless,  the  longer  it 
takes  for  the  Treaty  to  enter  into  force,  the  longer  it 
remains  in  legal  limbo  and  the  more  difficult  it  will 
become to sustain the momentum so many have fought 
hard  to  achieve.  The  more  time  that  passes  without 
sustained progress on entry into force, the greater the 
likelihood  that  States  will  be  less  inclined  to  honour 
their commitments to the Treaty or to the organization.
For  that  reason,  the  Executive  Secretary  has 
established  a  group  of  eminent  persons,  which  is 
identifying  and  seizing  opportunities  to  advance  the 
Treaty’s  entry  into  force,  thus  complementing  the 
article XIV process, currently co-chaired by Indonesia 
and Hungary. The group is leveraging the wealth and 
experience of its members to advise on ways to promote 
the Treaty in the remaining annex 2 States. The group 
is  also  utilizing  regional  understanding  and  expertise 
to  facilitate  dialogue  among  leaders  in  the  various 
regions and to advance the message of the CTBTO in 
international conferences and other events.
The  value  of  the  CTBT  verification  regime  has 
become more and more evident. The human and security 
benefits of the test ban continue to be appreciated. A 
growing  number  of  countries,  institutions  and  people 
are demonstrating leadership in promoting the Treaty’s 
entry  into  force.  The  CTBT  is  edging  closer  towards 
universality.
Let  us  together  strengthen  our  resolve  and  build 
on recent achievements. The goodwill and momentum 
generated in recent years need to be met with equally 
good  action  on  the  part  of  Member  States  —  the 
stakeholders and owners of this process. The vision of a 
test-free world certainly deserves our full determination, 
commitment and combined strengths in the pursuit of 
our final and noble goal.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Austria to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.8.
Mr.  Riecken  (Austria):  Austria  is  honoured  to 
address the General Assembly in its capacity as current 
6/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
Chair  of  the  Central  European  Initiative,  and  it  is  a 
pleasure to introduce the draft resolution on cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Central European 
Initiative (CEI) (A/69/L.8) on behalf of the 18 member 
States.  Since  December  2011,  when  the  Initiative 
obtained  observer  status  in  the  General  Assembly 
pursuant to the adoption of resolution 66/111, this is the 
second  time  that  the  Initiative  addresses  the  General 
Assembly. We are eager to continue our work leading 
to a dynamic and substantive partnership between the 
United Nations and the Central European Initiative.
Regional  cooperation  has  to  be  seen  in  a  global 
context,  since  regional  aspects  are  crucial  elements 
for international efforts on a global scale. The need for 
more  cooperation,  more  synergies,  more  interaction 
among  those  involved  in  the  endeavour  to  strengthen 
regional cooperation is obvious. Therefore, in January, 
the Austrian presidency of the CEI organized a meeting 
of some 20 international and regional organizations in 
Vienna to sound out more synergies and cooperation. 
Let me underline what the CEI is doing in the context 
of enhanced regional cooperation.
In  carrying  out  its  mission  and  objectives,  the 
CEI  promotes  initiatives  and  programmes  aimed  at 
fostering cohesion and integration among the countries 
of its region by serving as a forum for political dialogue 
and a platform for exchanging best practices, capacity-
building  and  cross-border  cooperation.  That  unique 
working  methodology,  which  is  a  combination  of 
multilateral  diplomacy  and  project  management,  has 
made  the  CEI,  which  is  celebrating  its  twenty-fifth 
birthday this year, a champion of regional cooperation. 
In most cases, that has been done in partnership with 
others. 
Cooperation  between 
the  CEI  and  United 
Nations  specialized  entities  over  the  past  years  has 
been  substantive  and  widespread  and  has  covered 
various  areas.  For  example,  the  CEI  cooperates  with 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Europe  in  the  area  of 
enterprise and sustainable development, with the Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
in the area of agriculture and with the United Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
in  the  field  of  culture.  The  CEI  has  a  memorandum 
of  understanding  and  other  types  of  agreements  with 
some  of  those  organizations,  which  has  led  to  the 
implementation  of  several  joint  projects,  as  well  as 
common events and other activities.
the  most 
It  is  worth  pointing  out  that  the  CEI  also  strives 
to  cooperate  with 
important  European 
organizations  and  institutions,  such  as  the  European 
Union, 
for  Reconstruction 
and  Development,  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation and Development, the Council of Europe 
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe.
the  European  Bank 
Last  but  not  least,  the  CEI  also  cooperates  with 
all major regional organizations and forums operating 
within  and  beyond  the  Initiative’s  region,  such  as  the 
Adriatic and Ionian Initiative, the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation  Organization,  the  Council  of  the  Baltic 
Sea States, the Regional Cooperation Council and the 
South-East European Cooperation Process.
We  firmly  believe  that  we  should  further  explore 
ways to enhance cooperation with regional organizations 
active in the various parts of the world. The fact that 
the majority of the most important regional initiatives 
are  present  here  today  provides  us  with  a  unique 
opportunity  to  work  on  a  truly  strategic  partnership 
between us and the United Nations in pursuit of world 
peace, security, development and democracy.
In conclusion, I would like to use this opportunity 
to  sincerely  thank  the  CEI  member  States  for  their 
engagement,  and  all  the  other  countries  that  are 
supporting  draft  resolution  A/69/L.8.  I  would  like 
to  convey  to  the  General  Assembly  our  joint  plea  to 
adapt by consensus the draft resolution on cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Central European 
Initiative.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Belarus to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.10.
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  As 
Chairman of the Commonwealth of Independent States 
(CIS) for 2014, the Belarusian delegation has the honour 
of introducing the draft resolution entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Commonwealth of 
Independent States” (A/69/L.10).
The  CIS,  established  in  1991,  brings  together  11 
States  parties.  The  Commonwealth  seeks  to  develop 
mutually advantageous cooperation between the States 
parties in the political, economic, humanitarian, cultural, 
environmental  and  other  fields.  In  accordance  with 
resolution  48/237,  in  March  1994  the  Commonwealth 
was granted observer status in the General Assembly.
14-61840
7/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
Cooperation between the CIS and the various United 
Nations  bodies  is  progressively  developing.  The  CIS 
Executive  Committee  supports  working  contacts  with 
a number of specialized agencies of the United Nations 
system, in particular with the United Nations Economic 
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and with 
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization. We have established treaty relations with 
the executive bodies of the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development, the Economic Commission 
for  Europe,  the  United  Nations  Office  at  Geneva  and 
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. As of 
July 2013, we have a focal point for cooperation with 
the Security Council in our CIS Executive Committee, 
established  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution 
1540 (2004). And that list is far from exhaustive.
In  recent  years  we  have  accumulated  solid 
experience  in  multilevel  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  CIS  to  deal  with  common 
challenges  of  a  social,  economic  and  humanitarian 
nature. In order to strengthen the practical component 
of that cooperation and upgrade its effectiveness, it is 
vital to have a systemic foundation for such cooperation, 
which will help develop and deepen the ties of the CIS 
with  the  United  Nations  specialized  agencies.  That, 
in  fact,  is  the  purpose  of  the  draft  resolution  that  we 
have  submitted  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States. 
In particular, the draft resolution urges the specialized 
agencies  and  other  organizations,  programmes  and 
funds  of  the  United  Nations  system,  as  well  as  the 
international  financial  institutions,  to  develop  their 
cooperation with the CIS.
Belarus  is  convinced  that  efforts  to  develop  the 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  subregional  organizations,  including  the  CIS, 
should seek objectively to achieve the fullest and most 
effective  resolution  possible  of  the  broadest  range  of 
issues, exchange best practices in various sectors and 
implement them in practice.
The  delegation  of  Belarus  would  like  to  thank 
interested  States  for  participating  in  the  work  on  the 
text of the draft resolution. We have tried to take into 
account  their  comments  and  suggestions  as  much  as 
possible.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Morocco to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.9.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  my 
capacity as Chair of the Arab Group for the month of 
November, I am extremely honoured to introduce draft 
resolution  A/69/L.9,  which  pertains  to  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States.  I  am  doing  so  on  behalf  of  the  following 
countries: Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, 
Iraq,  Jordan,  Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Morocco, 
Mauritania,  Oman,  Palestine,  Qatar,  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United 
Arab Emirates and Yemen..
The draft resolution that is being introduced today 
concerns an important topic, itself enshrined in Chapter 
VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
encourages the Organization to cooperate with regional 
organizations, particularly on joint matters relating to 
international  peace  and  security.  The  draft  resolution 
takes  account  of  the  recommendations  resulting  from 
the meeting between the United Nations and the League 
of Arab States held in Geneva from 17 to 19 June. In the 
wake of the recent events and the rapid global changes 
and  crises  taking  place  around  the  world,  we  must 
strengthen our cooperation and our reach, and work to 
bring the efforts of the two organizations closer.
Through the draft resolution, the General Assembly 
invites the United Nations and its agencies, along with 
the  countries  of  the  Arab  League,  to  strengthen  their 
cooperation in order to achieve their common goals. In 
that context, in the draft resolution the Assembly also 
requests that the United Nations and the League of Arab 
States  review  their  existing  coordination  mechanisms 
and introduce new recommendations and suggestions, 
with  the  goal  of  strengthening  and  accelerating  their 
implementation. It also requests an acceleration of the 
review  of  the  1989  cooperation  agreement  between 
the  two  organizations,  in  order  to  adapt  it  to  current 
developments and challenges.
I therefore call on the General Assembly to adopt 
draft  resolution  A/69/L.9  unanimously  and  without  a 
vote.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  the  Russian  Federation  to  introduce 
draft resolutions A/69/L.12 and A/69/L.13.
Mr.  Churkin 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  today  on 
three  sub-items  on  today’s  agenda:  123  (l),  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Eurasian  Economic  Community”,  123  (g),  entitled 
8/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization”, and 123 (w), 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization”.
In my national capacity, I would like touch on the 
issue  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the Eurasian Economic Community (EURASEC).
Over the past few years, EURASEC has collaborated 
actively  with  the  United  Nations  on  a  wide  range  of 
issues,  including  trade,  transport,  communications, 
energy,  tourism,  environmental  protection,  disaster 
emergency  management,  migration,  education  and 
much more. We are pleased with the results of that work, 
which has been carried out in full accord with United 
Nations priorities for sustainable development and has 
contributed in many ways to establishing an extensive 
architecture  of  multilateral  cooperation  in  Eurasia. 
Through 
roles,  EURASEC 
and  the  United  Nations  have  helped  to  find  the  best 
possible solutions to problems facing the countries of 
the region, based on the individual countries’ specific 
characteristics,  thereby  contributing  to  international 
practical experience in responding to current social and 
economic challenges.
their  complementary 
that  fully  reflects 
In  the  14  years  of  its  existence,  EURASEC  has 
become a capable, dynamically evolving and effective 
organization  with  a  developed  legal  and  institutional 
framework 
its  relevance  and 
maturity. The mechanisms that it has created provided 
reliable support to its members during the recent global 
economic  crisis.  The  Community  has  accomplished 
much  and  has  now  achieved  the  important  goal  of 
bringing  Eurasian  integration  to  a  new  level  with 
the  establishment,  starting  on  1  January  2015,  of  the 
Eurasian Economic Union. With that, according to the 
decision of the Heads of its member States, EURASEC 
will  cease  its  activities,  while  issues  relating  to  the 
future  development  of  economic  integration  will  be 
turned over to the jurisdiction of the constituent bodies 
of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The Eurasian Economic Union is being created as 
an  international  organization  for  regional  economic 
integration  and  with  an  international  legal  identity.  It 
is  consistent  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  universally 
recognized  standards  of  international  law,  including 
the rules of the World Trade Organization. Within the 
Union, the four freedoms — the freedom of movement 
of  goods,  services,  capital  and  the  workforce  —  will 
be observed, with a coordinated, coherent and unified 
policy on the key branches of the economy.
The  Eurasian  Economic  Union  currently  includes 
Russia,  Belarus  and  Kazakhstan,  but  membership  is 
open to any State sharing its goals and principles. At the 
beginning of October, the Republic of Armenia signed 
an agreement to join. An action plan for membership in 
the Union for the Kyrgyz Republic has been approved. 
In addition, the Eurasian Economic Union’s agreement 
provides for a mechanism whereby interested countries 
can  receive  observer  State  status  in  the  Union,  and 
many countries and regional organizations have already 
expressed interest in cooperating with it.
We  believe  that  the  goals  and  objectives  that  the 
Eurasian Economic Union has set itself not only resonate 
with  its  member  States,  but  also  reflect  global  trends 
in  development.  The  Eurasian  integration  process  is 
reaching a new level, and there is much more to be done 
to enable its economic union to function at full strength 
in order for its member States and partners to feel its 
real  impact.  We  firmly  believe  that,  as  the  Eurasian 
Economic Union develops, its potential and experience 
will  be  sought  out  by  the  international  community, 
particularly in the context of formulating a new agenda 
for post-2015 development, which will become the new 
system  of  coordinates  for  defining  the  likely  specific 
parameters for practical cooperation between the Union 
and the United Nations.
I  now  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
member  States  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization  (CSTO):  the  Republic  of  Armenia,  the 
Republic  of  Belarus,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
Republic of Tajikistan.
It  is  generally  recognized  that  the  activity  of 
regional organizations is an integral feature of modern 
international  relations.  Their  effective  work  on  the 
ground is an important component in ensuring security 
and  the  development  of  trading  and  humanitarian 
ties  between  nations.  The  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization makes a substantial contribution to those 
processes.
Today, the CSTO is a multifaceted structure capable 
of reliably responding to the wide range of challenges 
and threats that its member States may encounter. It also 
has  the  capacity  to  conduct  peacekeeping  operations, 
including  under  United  Nations  auspices.  The  CSTO 
14-61840
9/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
carries  out  regular  anti-drug  activities.  Within  the 
framework of its ongoing regional anti-drug campaign 
–  Operation  Kanal,  designed  to  fight  Afghan  opiate 
smuggling  –  the  organization  combats  the  flow  of 
narcotic products to both European and Asian countries, 
as well as the activities of organized criminal groups.
The  aim  of  the  CSTO  is  to  strengthen  peace  and 
international and regional security in accordance with 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  legal  norms.  It  is  those  elements  that 
are  reflected  in  draft  resolution  A/69/L.13.  We  are 
grateful  to  all  the  delegations  that  have  participated 
constructively  in  agreeing  on  that  document.  Its 
adoption should give a new impetus to the development 
of  mutually  beneficial  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations.
I now turn to my third statement.
I  would  first  like  to  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  recent  report  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
(A/69/228),  which  enables  us  to  take  a  look  at  the 
latest  trends  in  that  important  area  of  United  Nations 
activities.
Today, on behalf of the members of the Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization  —  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan  and  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  —  I  have 
the  honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/69/L.12, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization”.  The  draft 
resolution  is  based  on  resolutions  64/183,  adopted  on 
18  December  2009;  65/124,  adopted  on  13  December 
2010; and 67/15, adopted on 19 November 2012.
In  the  past  few  years,  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization  (SCO)  has  become  a  cornerstone  of 
regional  security  in  all  its  dimensions.  Its  activities 
are aimed at promoting mutual trust and encouraging 
cooperation  in  the  areas  of  the  economy,  education, 
energy,  the  environment,  information  security  and 
other  fields.  Our  member  States  make  a  significant 
contribution to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  The  SCO  promotes  effective  counter-
terrorism  cooperation,  including  through  its  regional 
counter-terrorism  bodies  and  the  fight  against  drug 
trafficking  and  other  types  of  transnational  crime. 
We  are  also  making  a  significant  contribution  to 
stabilization efforts in neighbouring Afghanistan. The 
draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  is  the  outcome 
of  informal  consultations  convened  by  the  Russian 
Federation  in  its  capacity  as  the  current  Chair  of  the 
SCO.  We  would  like  to  thank  all  the  delegations  that 
participated and seek to work constructively to further 
strengthen the existing ties between the United Nations 
and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Greece  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.14.
Mr. Spinellis (Greece): On behalf of the member 
States  of 
the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  (BSEC),  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce 
draft  resolution  A/69/L.14,  submitted  under  sub-item 
(d)  of  agenda  item  123  and  entitled  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation Organization”. Allow me, at the outset, to 
take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the 
valuable  support  and  positive  spirit  evidenced  by  all 
countries sponsoring the draft resolution.
The Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization, 
with  a  lifespan  of  almost  23  years,  is  the  most 
inclusive and institutionally mature regional economic 
organization  in  the  wider  Black  Sea  area.  It  seeks  to 
promote  enhanced  cooperation  among  its  member 
States in many areas and to ensure peace and stability 
in  the  Black  Sea  region.  In  recent  years,  the  wider 
Black Sea area has attracted considerable attention as 
an energy and transport hub between Europe and Asia. 
Hence,  the  activity  of  BSEC  has  increased,  which  is 
testimony  to  the  importance  of  regional  initiatives, 
joint  projects  and  enhanced  coalitions  as  important 
assets in addressing regional challenges and achieving 
sustainable development.
Under  the  current  Greek  chairmanship,  which 
runs  from  1  July  until  31  December  2014,  the  BSEC 
also seeks to enhance its support-building capabilities 
and  economic  cooperation  with  other  regional  and 
international  organizations,  while  at  the  same  time 
advancing  the  emergence  of  the  organization  as  the 
appropriate  forum  for  cooperation  through  concrete 
project  implementation  in  the  Black  Sea  region.  In 
that  respect,  the  BSEC  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
strengthening its cooperation with the United Nations 
and the specialized agencies in fields of work that are 
of common interest to both organizations.
That cooperation will be instrumental in bringing 
the wider Black Sea area closer to its neighbours and 
10/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
the world, and will encourage concrete efforts, common 
initiatives  and  the  implementation  of  joint  projects. 
To  that  effect,  priority  areas  already  existing  within 
BSEC  —  such  as  the  environment,  transport,  energy, 
institutional reform, good governance, trade, economic 
development,  agriculture  and 
fight  against 
organized  crime  —  constitute  the  necessary  basis  for 
developing additional joint projects in the region.
the 
In conclusion, I would like to express the sincere 
hope  that  this  year’s  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted 
without a vote, as has been the case in past years. I also 
express my conviction that, once adopted, it will further 
strengthen  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  BSEC,  thus  contributing  to  the  promotion  of 
the  principles  and  objectives  of  the  United  Nations 
and the purposes and goals of the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation Organization.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Malaysia to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.15.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  Malaysia,  as  Chair  of 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  (CTBTO),  has 
the  honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/69/L.15, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.”
The  objective  of  the  draft  resolution  is  to  ensure 
that  the  important  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  (CTBT)  issue  remains  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly. That is particularly necessary in the 
light of the crucial work being carried out by the CTBT 
verification regime in the fields of nuclear disarmament 
and non-proliferation.
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Randy 
Bell,  Director  of  the  CTBTO  International  Data 
Centre  (IDC),  for  the  comprehensive  and  informative 
briefing  that  he  made  earlier  in  relation  to  the  report 
on  the  work  of  the  CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission 
(see  A/69/164).  We  would  also  like  to  express  our 
appreciation to the previous Executive Secretary of the 
CTBTO Preparatory Commission, Mr. Tibor Tóth, for 
his good work. Malaysia takes note of the report of the 
Secretary-General on cooperation between the United 
Nations and the CTBTO Preparatory Commission (see 
A/69/228).
The CTBT is one of the most important multilateral 
instruments needed for the advancement of international 
peace  and  security,  as  it  establishes  an  international 
norm  on  nuclear  testing  in  all  environments,  whether 
for  military  or  civilian  purposes.  The  Preparatory 
Commission therefore plays a vital role in strengthening 
the  CTBT  verification  regime  in  preparation  for  the 
Treaty’s entry into force and in promoting the Treaty’s 
universality.
A key element of the CTBT verification regime is the 
Vienna-based International Data Centre, which collects 
and  processes  monitoring  data  from  the  International 
Monitoring  System  (IMS).  At  present,  around  300 
stations  worldwide  transmit  information  to  the  IDC, 
providing the IMS with a truly global reach. In addition 
to enhancing the detection of nuclear explosions, that 
flow  of  data  will  also  benefit  disaster  mitigation  and 
scientific  research.  That  illustrates  how  the  work  of 
the  CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission  has  spillover 
benefits, and my delegation calls for the international 
community to continue to support that infrastructure.
On  the  universality  of  the  CTBT,  my  delegation 
believes that positive developments on that track would 
provide much-needed momentum towards a successful 
outcome of the upcoming 2015 Review Conference of 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
In that regard, we welcome the Republic of the Congo 
as  the  one  hundred  and  sixty-third  State  to  ratify  the 
CTBT,  bringing  the  total  number  of  State  signatories 
to 183. We continue to urge countries, especially those 
listed  in  annex  2,  to  sign  and  ratify  the  Treaty  at  the 
earliest opportunity to ensure its entry into force.
In the light of the important work carried out by the 
CTBTO Preparatory Commission, Malaysia reaffirms 
our appreciation and full support to the Commission’s 
Executive Secretary, Mr. Lassina Zerbo, and the efforts 
of the Provisional Technical Secretariat.
In  that  connection,  Malaysia  is  pleased  to  submit 
draft  resolution  A/69/L.15  for  the  consideration  of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  would  like  to  invite  all 
delegations to demonstrate their support by sponsoring 
the  draft  resolution.  They  can  do  so  by  approaching 
Secretariat  officials  in  the  Hall  or  at  the  General 
Assembly  Affairs  Branch  office  in  the  Secretariat 
Building. As in previous years, we hope that the draft 
resolution  will  continue  to  enjoy  the  consensus  and 
support of all Member States.
14-61840
11/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  the  Netherlands  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/69/L.16.
Mr.  Beenen  (Netherlands):  I  have  the  honour  to 
take the floor to introduce draft resolution A/69/L.16, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”. The Netherlands, which is host country to the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW), does so on behalf of approximately nearly 40 
sponsors.  The  aim  of  the  biennial  draft  resolution  is 
to  highlight  the  importance  of  continued  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the OPCW.
The OPCW contributes to international peace and 
security by verifying the destruction of chemical weapon 
stockpiles, by working, through industry inspections, to 
prevent the re-emergence of chemical weapons and by 
promoting the peaceful use of chemistry for activities 
not  prohibited  by  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention 
through,  inter  alia,  international  cooperation  and 
assistance. For the past year, the United Nations and the 
OPCW  have  been  cooperating  effectively  with  regard 
to the elimination of the chemical weapons programme 
of the Syrian Arab Republic.
At  present,  190  States  are  party  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  and  thus  are  members  of  the 
OPCW. There is good hope that further steps towards 
universalization  will  be  taken  in  the  near  future.  The 
OPCW is preparing to commemorate, on 22 April 2015, 
the one hundredth anniversary of the first large-scale 
use of chemical weapons, at Ypres, Belgium.
The  draft  resolution  makes  reference  to  those 
events, in addition to taking note of the annual reports of 
the OPCW. It is our hope that, as on previous occasions, 
the  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by  consensus,  as 
it is a factual and rather technical text. That might not 
be the case, as we were informed this morning. We are 
confident that the draft text in front of the Assembly, 
which is general in nature and factual, commands the 
largest  possible  support  from  the  General  Assembly, 
and we look forward to the Assembly’s support for the 
text as it is.
Mr.  Boubacar  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/69/228).
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Union  is  founded  on  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  particular  Chapter  VIII,  which 
focuses  on  cooperation  with  regional  organizations. 
The  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union is not new. In recent years, it has grown 
and improved in various areas, including in the peaceful 
settlement of conflicts, mediation, electoral assistance 
and institution-building, which have greatly enhanced 
the cooperation between the two organizations. I would 
like to reaffirm the need to continue that cooperation 
through  the  provision  of  resources,  exchanges  of 
experience and the strengthening of human capacities 
in the African Union.
The  positive  impact  of  the  partnership  between 
the  two  organizations,  as  exemplified  in  the  support 
for  peace  and  stability  on  the  African  continent,  is  a 
clear  indication  of  the  usefulness  and  effectiveness 
of  that  cooperation.  Positive  relations  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  Peace  and  Security  Council 
of  the  African  Union  and  the  continued  consultations 
between the two bodies are also a clear expression of the 
intention of both organizations to promote institutional 
cooperation between them.
As  we  are  discussing  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the African Union, I would like to 
take this opportunity to reiterate that strengthening the 
relationship between the African Union and the United 
Nations  is  now  more  urgent  than  ever,  considering 
the  great  challenges  facing  the  African  continent.  In 
addition  to  security  and  development  challenges,  the 
African Union is now prey to the scourge of a ghastly 
epidemic that has taken many lives and that requires the 
international community to shoulder its responsibility 
side  by  side  with  Africa.  The  Ebola  epidemic  is 
an  international  threat  that  Africa  cannot  confront 
alone.  Therefore,  the  international  community  must 
stand  together  with  Africa  by  providing  material  and 
equipment  support  in  order  to  contain  the  epidemic. 
We value and appreciate the initiative of the Secretary-
General  in  creating  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Ebola Emergency Response as a provisional step aimed 
at providing assistance to confront the Ebola epidemic, 
and  we  emphasize  the  importance  of  cooperation 
between  United  Nations  agencies  and  the  affected 
countries.  We  call  upon  the  international  community 
to provide all the forms of support necessary for those 
States.
The African Group highly values the various forms 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union, especially concerning the maintenance 
12/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
of peace and the settlement of conflict, in addition to 
social  and  economic  cooperation.  We  also  reaffirm 
that there are various opportunities to strengthen and 
deepen  that  cooperation,  and  we  expect  there  to  be 
more next year when the post-2015 development agenda 
is adopted. The adoption of the new agenda will be a 
new  opportunity  to  deepen  all  forms  of  cooperation, 
especially  in  the  economic  field,  between  the  two 
organizations.  In  that  context,  the  African  Group 
reaffirms the need for a strategic approach and vision, 
because  the  difficult  conditions  throughout  the  world 
make  it  important  and  necessary  to  build  relations 
between the two organizations on the basis of clearly 
defined  principles  and  priorities  and  the  flexible  and 
creative implementation of Chapter VIII of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  consultations  before 
decision-making and the sharing of responsibilities.
The nature of international challenges today require 
greater  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
other international bodies and between it and regional 
organizations in dealing with the security, economic and 
development dimensions of various regional conflicts. 
The regional nature of current conflicts has increased 
the  importance  of  regional  organizations,  given  their 
knowledge of the specific details of the conflicts and 
crises.
Along with the productive cooperation between the 
two organizations, we reiterate that African needs and 
interests  should  be  taken  into  consideration,  because 
they  cannot  be  separated  from  the  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  That  would  end  the 
historical  harm  inflicted  upon  Africa  in  terms  of  the 
membership and structure of the Security Council. The 
African  Group  will  return  to  the  General  Assembly 
with  regard  to  the  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between the United Nations and Africa before the end 
of this session. 
We  look  forward  to  having  this  debate  as  a 
contribution to the promotion of the ongoing partnership 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union, 
because  that  partnership  plays  a  crucial  role  in  the 
success  of  our  joint  efforts  to  promote  international 
peace and security and to fulfil the legitimate aspirations 
of all nations to security and sustainable development.
Mr. Zehnder (Switzerland) (spoke in French): The 
collaboration between the United Nations and regional 
organizations has grown in importance in recent years. 
With  growing  demand  for  support  before,  during  and 
after  conflicts  and  with  parallel  increasing  pressure 
on budgets, strong partnerships and a well-thought-out 
division of labour among various actors have become 
ever more necessary.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe (OSCE) is the world’s largest regional security 
organization under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  one  of  the  main  partners  of  the 
United Nations. Based on Switzerland’s experience as 
Chairman-in-Office of the OSCE, I would like to make 
some  remarks  on  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  OSCE.  Switzerland  has  made  the 
strengthening  of  this  cooperation  one  of  its  priorities 
during its chairmanship. The Secretary-General of the 
United Nations has also placed similar emphasis on this 
important partnership.
The  United  Nations  and  the  OSCE  are  connected 
through  a  long-standing  and  successful  record  of 
cooperation,  which  includes  regular  exchanges  at 
all  levels  in  numerous  areas.  The  statement  made  by 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  before  the  OSCE 
Permanent Council on 4 November, at the invitation of 
OSCE Chairperson-in-Office Didier Burkhalter, is but 
the most recent evidence thereof.
The  two  organizations  have  been  cooperating 
closely  on  regional  issues  for  several  years  now. 
Throughout South-East Europe, OSCE field operations 
coordinate 
their  activities  with  United  Nations 
agencies, funds and programmes. In Kosovo, where the 
OSCE  Mission  is  part  of  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo,  the  OSCE  has 
taken over the monitoring of and provision of support 
to  non-majority  mechanisms  at  the  municipal  level, 
thereby  contributing  to  early-warning  and  conflict-
prevention efforts on the ground.
Cooperation  between  the  OSCE  and  the  United 
Nations  is  also  necessary  and  useful  for  all  actors 
in  Ukraine.  The  daily  reports  from 
the  OSCE 
Special  Monitoring  Mission  are  complemented  by 
comprehensive  monthly  reports  from 
the  United 
Nations Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. 
Furthermore, 
the  United  Nations  has  provided 
operational  support  to  OSCE  mediation  efforts  by 
putting  at  its  disposal  members  of  the  Standby  Team 
of  Mediation  Experts.  The  United  Nations  also  has 
the  lead  on  humanitarian  issues,  while  the  OSCE  has 
taken on new tasks in the area of ceasefire-monitoring. 
14-61840
13/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
The two organizations’ activities thus complement and 
reinforce each other.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  OSCE  extends  to  thematic  areas.  This  includes 
the  strategic  partnership  between  the  OSCE  and  the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) 
in the area of organized crime and counter-terrorism, 
in  the  framework  of  which  the  OSCE  supports  the 
implementation  of  United  Nations  anti-terrorism 
instruments.  Thanks 
the 
ratification rate in the OSCE region has increased from 
65 per cent in 2001 to almost 85 per cent this year. The 
OSCE also collaborates closely with UNODC in the field 
of  combating  corruption  and  money-laundering.  Joint 
workshops  and  training  sessions  are  being  conducted 
in the OSCE region for public officials and civil-society 
and  private-sector  representatives,  in  order  to  raise 
awareness  of  and  facilitate  the  implementation  of  the 
United Nations Convention against Corruption.
that  partnership, 
that 
Another  important  area  is  mediation.  In  order  to 
strengthen  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  the 
OSCE  Conflict  Prevention  Centre  completed  a  work 
plan  with  the  United  Nations  Mediation  Support  Unit 
in  June.  In  addition,  regular  exchanges  take  place  at 
the  strategic  and  operational  level.  That  partnership 
combines  the  international  and  global  expertise  of 
the  United  Nations  with  the  OSCE’s  in-depth  local 
and  regional  knowledge.  This  represents  a  valuable 
combination  of 
two  organizations’  strengths 
and  clearly  illustrates  the  tremendous  potential  of 
partnerships under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
the 
in 
experience 
Based  on  Switzerland’s 
its 
Chairmanship of the OSCE, we are convinced that it is 
in the interest of both the United Nations and the OSCE 
to  further  nurture  and  strengthen  the  cooperation 
between  the  two  organizations.  The  United  Nations 
peace  operations  review  announced  by  the  Secretary-
General  will  focus,  inter  alia,  on  partnerships.  That 
review will provide an opportunity to reflect on the role 
of regional organizations such as the OSCE.
Furthermore, 
the  OSCE  has 
long-standing 
experience  in  several  areas  covered  by  the  post-2015 
agenda  and  could  therefore  provide  input  to  current 
discussions and contribute to the implementation of a 
number of initiatives, including in the area of disaster 
risk  reduction  and  water.  The  current  Swiss  OSCE 
Chairmanship and the incoming Serbian Chairmanship 
have both put the topic of water on the list of priorities 
of  the  OSCE  agenda  this  year  and  next  year.  Various 
events  have  been  held  throughout  the  year  on  the 
topic  of  water  diplomacy,  best  practices  in  the  field 
of  water  management  and  water  cooperation.  Next 
year  the  incoming  Chairmanship  will  dedicate  its 
Economic  and  Environmental  Forum  process  cycle 
to  water  governance.  The  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission  for  Europe  has  been  closely  associated 
with most meetings.
The promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies 
is  another  area  in  which  the  OSCE  has  long-standing 
implementation  experience.  Mechanisms  such  as 
the  High  Commissioner  on  National  Minorities  are 
instruments  to  strengthen  human  rights  and  could 
thus  play  an  important  role  in  the  implementation  of 
the  goal  of  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies.  These 
instruments could also provide a basis for a discussion 
on  the  Secretary-General’s  Human  Rights  Up  Front 
initiative,  which  addresses  a  shared  priority  of  both 
organizations.  An  exchange  of  information  between 
the United Nations and the OSCE on these issues and 
other topics of general interest would therefore be most 
welcome.
Switzerland  will  remain  committed  to  strong 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE.
Mrs. Borges (Timor-Leste): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  (CPLP),  whose  member  States  are  Angola, 
Brazil,  Cabo  Verde,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal, Sao Tome and Principe 
and  my  own  country,  Timor-Leste.  I  wish  to  remind 
members of the General Assembly of the relevance of 
the  Portuguese  language  in  international  affairs,  as  it 
unifies  240  million  people  in  nine  countries  and  on 
four  continents,  and  to  highlight  the  CPLP’s  political 
commitment  to  promoting  the  use  of  Portuguese  in 
international  and  regional  organizations,  including 
in  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes.
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
on the cooperation between the United Nations and the 
CPLP (see A/69/228), which reflects the positive effects 
of the joint actions that have materialized over the past 
two years. Resolution 67/252, sponsored by 75 Member 
States and adopted by the Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session,  in  2013,  noted  with  appreciation  that  this 
dynamism also reflected the strengthened partnerships 
14/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
among  the  member  States  of  the  Community  and  the 
United Nations, including its agencies.
The  United  Nations  system  continued  to  be  an 
important  partner,  actively  pursuing  its  cooperative 
ties  with  our  Community  through  concerted  political 
and  diplomatic  actions.  Similarly,  that  cooperation  is 
expressly  visible  in  several  vital  areas  that  contribute 
greatly to the development of our countries, particularly 
in the sectors of human rights, health, education, science 
and culture, food and agriculture, public administration, 
and science and technology, among others. 
One  example  of  such  partnerships  is  the  support 
provided  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  for  the  establishment  of  common  measures  to 
prevent and combat corruption by civil-servant agents 
in international commercial transactions. as well as a 
declaration  and  action  plan  on  trafficking  persons  in 
the  Community.  Another  example  is  the  Portuguese 
Unit of United Nations Radio, which continues to play a 
fundamental role in facilitating daily coverage of issues 
of concern to the United Nations and the Community of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries.
The Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries 
welcomes  the  establishment  earlier  this  year  of  a 
legitimate  Government  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  notes 
with  satisfaction  the  positive  steps  already  taken  by 
the democratically elected authorities there, remaining 
mindful  of  the  considerable  challenges  that  still 
lie  ahead.  As  part  of  its  political  coordination,  the 
Community and its member States are deeply involved 
in  coordinating  efforts  with  the  United  Nations  and 
other international partners to support the priorities set 
by the Government, with a view to promoting stability, 
respect  for  human  rights,  democratic  institutions  and 
the rule of law, and social and economic development. In 
that regard, we recall Security Council resolution 2157 
(2014) and the importance of convening an international 
pledging conference on the recovery of Guinea-Bissau, 
to  which  the  CPLP  remains  fully  committed,  as  well 
as  the  need  to  renew  and  strengthen  the  mandate  of 
the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in 
Guinea-Bissau.
In that regard, the relaunching of the International 
Contact  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau  is  an  essential 
instrument for the effective coordination of international 
assistance  in  the  country.  The  International  Contact 
Group  would  also  have  the  role  of  assisting  with 
the  organization  of  the  pledging  conference  and  of 
supporting  the  security  sector  reform  and  national 
reconciliation efforts. The Contact Group is currently 
co-chaired by the CPLP and the Economic Community 
of West African States and will hold its tenth meeting 
in New York on 18 November.
The  Community  also  welcomes  the  appointment 
of  the  former  President  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Mr. Miguel Trovoada, as Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General for Guinea-Bissau. We acknowledge 
and  congratulate  the  former  Special  Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta,  for 
his  achievements  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  welcome  his 
appointment  to  chair  the  High-Level  Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations,  which  will  examine  both 
peacekeeping operations and special political missions.
In July of this year, Timor-Leste hosted the CPLP 
Heads of State and Government Summit in Dili under 
the theme “CPLP and Globalization”, where the leaders, 
inter alia, recognized the need for a strategy on economic 
and  entrepreneurial  cooperation  and  reiterated  their 
commitment to reinforcing the human right to adequate 
food in national and community policies. At the Summit, 
we were also pleased to welcome Equatorial Guinea as 
our ninth member, and Turkey, Georgia, Namibia and 
Japan as associate members. I would like to take this 
opportunity to inform the Assembly of the intention of 
the CPLP member States to submit, during the current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  a  draft  resolution 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  CPLP”,  for  which  we  again  respectfully  seek  the 
Assembly’s  support,  which  we  were  able  to  secure  at 
the sixty-seventh session.
I wish to conclude by reiterating the determination 
of the CPLP to strengthen its partnership with the United 
Nations in the pursuit of common objectives, including 
the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, as well as our commitment to continuing to play 
a  positive  role  in  shaping  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  under  the  framework 
reached at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development.
Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): I would like to express our 
appreciation  to  you,  Sir,  for  convening  today’s  joint 
debate on cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional  and  other  organizations.  I  would  also  like  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive 
report on this agenda item (A/69/228).
14-61840
15/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
While my delegation aligns itself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Mauritania,  who  spoke 
on behalf of the Group of African States, I now wish to 
make a statement on behalf of Ethiopia in my national 
capacity.
The  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations  has  become 
increasingly critical in the maintenance of international 
peace and security. I would like to take this opportunity 
to commend you, Mr. President, for making this issue 
one of the priorities of your presidency and to welcome 
your intention to convene a high-level thematic debate 
on  strengthening  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  organizations  in  the  second 
quarter of 2015.
The  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional arrangements is obviously governed by Chapter 
VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, but the nature, 
scale and scope of that cooperation has evolved over the 
past  decades.  The  ever-changing  international  peace 
and  security  environment  in  particular  has  made  that 
cooperation absolutely imperative in addressing the new 
and complex challenges that we face — the emergence 
of new conflicts and relapses in post-conflict countries, 
the  threat  of  terrorism  and  extremism,  the  spread  of 
small arms and light weapons, and the danger posed by 
pandemics like Ebola, among many other challenges.
Regional  organizations  no  doubt  have 
the 
comparative  advantage  of  geographic  proximity  in 
addressing  some  of  those  challenges.  They  could 
therefore play, and are actually playing, a meaningful 
role  in  that  regard.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the 
United  Nations  has  recognized  that  fact,  showing 
thereby a greater willingness and commitment to work 
with  regional  organizations  and  coordinating  efforts 
with  them  in  the  advancement  of  international  peace 
and security. That is indeed a step in the right direction, 
and we fully support it.
We  are  encouraged  to  note  that  the  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the African Union and 
its  constituent  bodies  has  been  further  intensified  in 
recent  years  on  a  wide  range  of  issues  related  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In 
that  context,  we  welcome  the  regular  interaction  and 
dialogue between the Security Council and the African 
Peace and Security Council. We hope that cooperation 
will be further enhanced and strengthened through the 
adoption of an innovative and flexible approach and the 
effective  utilization  of  comparative  advantages  in  the 
advancement of common objectives.
for  his  commitment 
The  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Union  in  the  area  of  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding  has  also  expanded  and  deepened  in 
recent years. We hope that the comprehensive review of 
peacekeeping  and  the  peacebuilding  architecture  will 
take into account the views and concerns of the African 
Union, which is playing an increasingly important role 
in those areas, in collaboration with the United Nations.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend 
the  Secretary-General 
to 
strengthening  the  relations  and  dialogue  between 
the  United  Nations  and  subregional  organizations  in 
Africa  in  order  to  ensure  a  coherent  and  coordinated 
approach,  not  only  to  peace  and  security  but  also  to 
development  in  the  continent.  In  that  connection,  we 
express satisfaction with his visit to the Horn of Africa 
subregion, leading a high-level delegation composed of 
the President of the World Bank and senior officials of 
the African Union, the European Union and the African 
Development  Bank,  as  part  of  his  trip  to  various 
regions of the continent. We also welcome the outcome 
of  his  dialogue  with  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) 
and the announcement of the Horn of Africa Initiative.
Finally,  we  strongly  believe  that  the  cooperation 
and  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  and  other  organizations  have  become  so 
much  more  vital  than  ever  before,  and  we  have  full 
confidence that greater efforts will be deployed in that 
regard.  Strengthening  regional  organizations  such  as 
the African Union and subregional organizations such 
as  IGAD  must  be  part  of  those  efforts.  Global  and 
regional  challenges  have  become  more  complex  and 
more daunting. We must all rise to the occasion.
Mr.  Lupan  (Republic  of  Moldova):  We  welcome 
and support the adoption of draft resolution A/69/L.14, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”, to 
be adopted today by the General Assembly. Promoting 
multilateral  economic  cooperation  and  sustainable 
development  is  our  concrete  contribution  to  peace, 
stability  and  prosperity  in  the  Black  Sea  region,  thus 
preserving the principles proclaimed in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
There is a shared understanding of the importance 
interaction  between 
the  Black  Sea  Economic 
of 
16/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC)  and  the  United 
Nations  and  its  agencies.  We  consider  it  a  valuable 
opportunity  for  cooperation,  with  the  potential  of 
contributing  further  to  the  economic  and  political 
stability of the Black Sea region.
In the first half of 2015, the Republic of Moldova 
will take over the Chairmanship-in-Office of the BSEC. 
In that context, the Republic of Moldova will continue to 
be firmly engaged in contributing to the strengthening 
of  the  dialogue  between  the  BSEC  and  the  United 
Nations and its agencies. In practical terms, there are 
vast  possibilities  for  valuable  interaction  between  the 
two  organizations  in  the  fields  of  the  development  of 
economic  cooperation  and  trade  in  the  BSEC  area, 
sustainable energy, transport, entrepreneurship, health, 
environment  and  other  areas  already  agreed  upon  in 
the  BSEC,  as  mentioned  by  our  colleague  currently 
chairing the BSEC.
During  our  chairmanship,  we  will  endeavour  to 
hold  consultations  with  both  the  BSEC  secretariat 
and  United  Nations  agencies  in  order  to  initiate  joint 
programmes pertaining to the fields of common interest 
to both organizations.
Mr.  Mnatsakanyan  (Armenia):  At  the  outset,  we 
thank the Secretary-General for his latest report on the 
ongoing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional and other organizations (A/69/228). The report 
provides a good overview of the depth of cooperation 
and mutually reinforcing activities of the United Nations 
and its regional partners embracing the full mandate of 
the United Nations, on the one hand, and the respective 
mandated  areas  of  competence  at  the  regional  and 
subregional  levels,  including,  most  important,  peace, 
security, development and human rights.
No  country  can  be  effective  in  pursuing  its 
national  agenda  without  engaging  with  others.  That 
is  particularly  obvious  for  countries  with  modest 
capacities.  The  regional  and  subregional  levels  of 
cooperation provide an effective platform for pursuing 
specific  common  objectives  for  countries  bound  by 
common  security  goals,  common  values  or  simply  by 
geographic  proximity.  In  the  context  of  the  present 
debate,  cooperation  at  the  global  level,  here  in  the 
United Nations and elsewhere, provides a critical forum 
for interregional engagement.
of 
including 
regional 
organizations  — 
the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  the 
numerous 
As 
a  member 
Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization  (CSTO),  the 
Council of Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent 
States  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  —  Armenia  benefits  greatly  from  the 
institutional strength and effectiveness of the European 
regional  and  subregional  landscape  of  cooperation, 
including  in  the  fields  of  political  dialogue,  security, 
human  rights,  democratic  transformation  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law,  trade  and  economy, 
culture and youth.
In  our  national  context,  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  conflicts  on  the  basis  of  the  norms  and  principles 
of  international  law  without  exception  is  of  special 
significance,  given  the  ongoing  negotiations  for  the 
peaceful settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
within  the  internationally  supported  format  of  the 
OSCE  Minsk  Group  co-chairmanship.  That  format  is 
by far the most effective regional arrangement for that 
particular case for several reasons, not least of which is 
its capacity to sustain focus on a compromise solution 
and  to  defuse  tensions  and  escalation.  Consolidated 
support  for  those  negotiations  from  the  international 
community,  including  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Secretary-General, is critical in deflecting attempts to 
pursue mediation shopping and lopsided, often highly 
biased, definitions of the causes and consequences of 
the  conflict.  Armenia  welcomed  the  statement  by  the 
Secretary-General  in  August  in  support  of  the  OSCE 
Minsk  Group  Co-Chairs,  which  urged  respect  for  the 
ceasefire  agreement  and  commitment  to  immediate 
de-escalation and continuing dialogue in the pursuit of 
a rapid and peaceful political solution in the light of the 
surge in tensions at that time.
As  a  member  of 
the  CSTO,  Armenia  will 
continue  to  deliver  on  its  commitment  to  forge 
stronger cooperation with the United Nations so as to 
contribute to international peace and to United Nations 
peacekeeping capacities. As a troop-contributing State, 
Armenia has gathered considerable national experience 
from  its  engagements  in  NATO-led  peacekeeping 
operations  in  Afghanistan,  Kosovo  and,  previously, 
in  Iraq.  Armenia  will  soon  acquire  experience  in  a 
United  Nations-led  operation  in  Lebanon.  Armenia 
has been investing its experience in strengthening the 
preparedness for peacekeeping within the CSTO. In that 
context, we welcome the expanding cooperation of the 
United Nations with the CSTO, including between their 
respective secretariats. We also thank all partners who 
14-61840
17/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
will  support  the  draft  resolution  on  United  Nations-
CSTO cooperation (A/69/L.13).
Mauritania and Morocco, on behalf of the African and 
Arab Groups, respectively.
Armenia  is  a  proud  member  of  the  Council  of 
Europe,  the  oldest  European  organization  based  on 
common  values  of  democracy,  human  rights  and  the 
rule of law. For us, the Council of Europe has been a 
principal body in assisting Armenia in the reform process 
aimed  at  consolidating  national  legal  foundations  and 
establishing  sustainable  democratic  institutions.  That 
cooperation  successfully  continues  to  this  date  in  the 
form of legal advice and the practical implementation 
of specific action plans. Such cooperation is of course 
complemented  by  cooperation  with  other  relevant 
organizations,  specifically  the  OSCE  and  the  United 
Nations. The European Union is a principal contributor 
to the implementation of our reform agenda.
The existing resolution on cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Council of Europe (resolution 
67/83)  outlines  the  broad  scope  of  the  mutually 
reinforcing  mandates  of  both  organizations.  It  also 
serves  a  useful  guide  for  augmenting  the  benefits 
for  member  States,  benefiting  from  the  respective 
expertise  of  the  two  organizations.  At  the  same  time, 
Armenia is sensitive to situations where actions by the 
two organizations may result in duplication and undue 
competition in delivering assistance to beneficiaries.
Armenia  attaches  equally  high  importance  to 
its  work  within  all  other  regional  and  subregional 
organizations  of  which  it  is  a  member  or  with  which 
it  has  close  cooperation.  Any 
intergovernmental 
organization is an aggregate of its member States, able 
and willing to pursue a political dialogue and common 
goals  for  the  benefit  of  their  national  and  common 
interests.  The  present  international  agenda,  with  its 
proliferating threats, disagreements and conflicts, calls 
for  particularly  concerted  efforts  to  redouble  work 
towards common solutions and sustainable dialogue.
Smaller  States  are  particularly  vulnerable  and 
sensitive  to  situations  in  which  disagreements  at  the 
regional and global level risk leading to the emergence 
of dividing lines. Armenia is not an exception to such 
vulnerabilities  and  sensitivities.  Cooperation  and 
dialogue  among  States,  from  the  subregional  to  the 
regional  and  global  levels,  have  been  and  remain  the 
modus operandi for the sustainability of peace, security 
and cooperation. This agenda item is as relevant as ever.
Mr. Aboulatta (Egypt): I would like to associate my 
statement with those delivered by the representatives of 
The  success  of  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
would not have been possible without the direct support 
of regional stakeholders and the regional organizations 
that  represent  them.  Synergy  and  coherence  among 
international,  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
are a prerequisite for the success of peace and security 
efforts.
Full regional, subregional and national participation 
in  Security  Council  peace  and  security  efforts  is 
necessary so as to provide a sufficient level of ownership 
and  familiarity  to  regional  parties  to  conflicts.  The 
engagement  of  the  relevant  regional  organizations  is 
crucial for the success of United Nations peace efforts 
in  the  various  stages  of  conflicts,  including  early 
warning, conflict prevention and mediation, as well as 
post-conflict peacebuilding.
There  is  a  need  to  expand  African  capacity  to 
achieve United Nations goals. That could be achieved 
through greater streamlining and coordination between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union  (AU),  in 
accordance  with 
the  Ten-Year  Capacity-Building 
Programme  for  the  African  Union,  which  was  signed 
in 2006 by the United Nations and the AU. There is an 
urgent need to fully operationalize the AU Peace and 
Security Architecture, especially the Continental Early 
Warning System.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  League  of  Arab  States  is  also  indispensable.  The 
establishment  of  the  mission  of  the  Joint  Special 
Representative for Syria is an example of the potential 
for  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  that 
should  extend  to  conflict  prevention  and  resolution. 
Such cooperation can also help to find lasting solutions 
to  the  two  major  chronic  problems  of  the  region  that 
negatively impact regional and international peace and 
security, namely, the Palestinian question and the issue 
of nuclear weapons in the Middle East.
When it comes to peacekeeping, a shared role for 
the United Nations and regional organizations is both 
desirable  and  achievable.  The  African  Union-United 
Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur  stands  out  as 
the  most  prominent  example  of  cooperation  between 
the United Nations and a regional organization in the 
field  of  peacekeeping.  We  should  have  more  hybrid 
operations  with  a  predominantly  African  character. 
The Prodi panel’s 2008 report on African Union-United 
18/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
Nations cooperation (see A/63/666) recommended the 
establishment  of  a  multi-donor  trust  fund  to  support 
peacekeeping  in  Africa  based  on  African  ownership. 
Five  years  on,  that  recommendation  has  yet  to  be 
implemented.  That  call  remains  valid  —  indeed,  it  is 
more valid today than ever.
Mr. Mbalati (South Africa): At the outset, I would 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
(A/69/228).  Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations  has  long  been 
central to the work of the United Nations. That derives 
from  the  fundamental  understanding  that  the  United 
Nations would have limited success in implementing its 
mandate  without  close  cooperation  with  regional  and 
other  organizations.  Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and regional and other organizations should be 
based on the principle of subsidiarity and on the firm 
foundation of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United 
Nations, as reaffirmed by numerous resolutions of the 
General Assembly and the Security Council.
My delegation welcomes the report of the Secretary-
General.  We  concur  with  the  Secretary-General  that 
relationships between the United Nations and regional 
and other organizations have deepened and expanded the 
activities of the Organization, from peace and security 
and  human  rights  to  economic  and  social  affairs, 
development  and  humanitarian  issues.  In  that  regard, 
my delegation underscores the importance of the United 
Nations continuing to strengthen its partnerships with 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  as  a  means  to 
implement its mandate.
My delegation notes with appreciation the improved 
cooperation between the United Nations and the African 
Union  (AU).  We  are  pleased  that  the  United  Nations-
African Union Joint Task Force on Peace and Security 
has  continued  to  meet  twice  a  year.  Such  interaction 
should  be  encouraged  so  that  both  organizations  can 
develop  a  common  and  deeper  understanding  of  the 
root causes of conflict in Africa and develop common 
solutions  to  our  particular  security  challenges.  We 
believe that the cooperation between the United Nations 
and AU should draw on the comparative strengths and 
advantages of each organization, as is illustrated in the 
AU’s ability to mobilize quickly into conflict areas in 
order  to  create  stability  and  pave  the  way  for  longer-
term United Nations missions.
The  Secretary-General’s 
As  part  of  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community (SADC), South Africa has noted the recent 
interactive dialogue, held in Namibia in July between 
the  United  Nations  and  SADC,  which  was  convened 
with  a  view  to  sharing  regional  good  practices  with 
respect  to  conflict  prevention  and  mediation.  Such 
interactions  are  to  be  encouraged  and  will  go  a  long 
way towards strengthening the partnership between the 
United Nations and SADC, especially in strengthening 
subregional capacities in the areas of electoral support 
and conflict prevention and mediation.
report 
significantly 
points out that regional and subregional organizations 
are  distinct  and  are  often  confronted  with  different 
challenges, where a one-size-fits-all approach to such 
cooperation would not be conducive to success. A case 
in point is the SADC-International Conference on the 
Great Lakes Region decision on the establishment of a 
Force  Intervention  Brigade  under  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo to neutralize all negative forces. 
The results are evident, as there is relative stability and 
the lives of the population in eastern Congo have greatly 
improved. We acknowledge that such arrangements are 
exceptional rather than the norm.
Despite  all  of  the  positive  developments  I  have 
mentioned,  we  have  seen  no  such  approach  in  the 
Middle  East.  There  has  been  swift  international 
reaction to some situations, while such cooperation is 
lacking with respect to others, and as a result, there has 
not been significant movement towards resolving those 
conflicts.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Arab League on the Middle East peace process has been 
most disappointing. The Arab League has consistently 
played a significant role in seeking a resolution to the 
conflict,  including  through  the  adoption  of  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  Unfortunately,  the  Security  Council 
has yet to provide effective and meaningful support to 
the League’s efforts.
My delegation agrees with the Secretary-General’s 
recommendations  that  the  United  Nations  should 
develop  context-specific  approaches  to  cooperation 
with its regional and subregional partners, taking into 
account the diversity and priorities of each region, and 
should explore ways in which cooperation can be better 
articulated at the strategic and technical levels.
14-61840
19/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
The President: I now give the floor to the Observer 
of the League of Arab States.
Mr.  Fathalla  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  As  this  is  the  first  time  that  I  take  the  floor 
during  this  session,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you, 
Sir,  upon  your  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  would  also  like 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  in 
guiding the work of the Organization and to recognize 
my colleagues from the Arab States.
The League of Arab States was established in 1945, 
and  its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  has  been 
regulated  by  an  agreement  signed  between  the  two 
organizations in 1989. Since then, our cooperation has 
taken  on  various  forms,  adapting  to  each  change  that 
has  occurred.  The  two  organizations  must  take  into 
account,  in  their  cooperation,  the  range  of  changes 
that take place, such as those in the Middle East since 
2010.  We  must  take  into  account  the  many  problems 
resulting  from  those  changes,  particularly  in  the  area 
of  humanitarian  assistance.  Those  changes  require 
that  we  adapt  our  methods  of  cooperation  between 
the  two  organizations  to  suit  the  task,  whether  it  be 
humanitarian  assistance,  assistance  to  refugees  or 
assistance  to  victims  of  war,  conflict  and  natural 
disasters.  The  efforts  of  both  organizations  must  also 
deal  with  peacebuilding  and  capacity-building  in  the 
civilian  sector  and  civil  institutions.  After  war  and 
crises,  countries  pass  through  sensitive  stages  in  the 
post-conflict  phase,  and  if  the  assistance  provided  to 
them is not adapted to the situation, they risk relapsing 
into conflict.
We addressed this agenda item most recently two 
years ago. I will give the Assembly a brief overview of 
some of the projects and types of cooperation in which 
the two organizations engage.
In a sectoral cooperation meeting held in Cairo on 
11  and  12  June  2013,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and 
the  United  Nations  addressed  building  cooperation 
in  order  to  reinforce  post-conflict  civilian  capacities. 
That meeting included the participation of Sarah Cliffe, 
United Nations Special Adviser and Assistant Secretary-
General  of  Civilian  Capacities.  The  Arab  League, 
working with the United Nations, has decided to deal 
with the issue in the framework of a comprehensive and 
integrated vision. It has therefore established three key 
approaches that are complementary and parallel.
information  and 
The  first  approach  has  to  do  with  strengthening 
the  relations  between  the  two  organizations  in  order 
to  exchange  experience  and 
to 
determine  needs  and  establish  frameworks  that  will 
allow for complementarity in the provision of services 
to  countries  in  the  region.  The  second  approach  is  to 
interact with countries in the region to help them build 
their own capacities and identify their needs so that they 
will  be  able  to  fulfil  their  role  in  conflict  prevention 
in the region. The third approach is one that we would 
like  to  implement  in  cooperation  with  civil  society 
organizations that are active in the areas of security and 
environmental development. It aims to strengthen civil 
society  during  the  post-conflict  phase  and  strengthen 
the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law  and  accountability,  as 
well as to take measures that will prevent a resumption 
of conflicts.
In  the  past  couple  of  years,  the  Secretariat’s 
Department  of  Political  Affairs,  together  with  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  has  helped 
strengthen cooperation with the League of Arab States 
through training sessions in the context of the Building 
Resources  in  Democracy,  Governance  and  Elections 
programme.  We  have  also  received  advice  on  the 
establishment of electoral databases for the League of 
Arab States. In that context, the Department of Political 
Affairs is now implementing a project aimed at assisting 
the League of Arab States in capacity-building in the 
areas of conflict prevention, arbitration and mediation. 
Those issues were debated during the twelfth meeting 
between the two organizations, held in Geneva in June. 
It  would  be  useful  to  note  that  part  of  the  meeting 
on  cooperation  was  dedicated  to  the  assessment  of 
projects that have been conducted in the context of our 
cooperation. Those projects resulted from our eleventh 
meeting, which was held in Vienna in 2012.
Another  part  of  the  meeting  on  cooperation  was 
dedicated  to  thinking  about  how  the  shared  work 
would be handled by four committees — the political, 
economic,  environmental,  and  cultural  and  social 
committees.  Many  general  decisions  were  prepared 
during  the  meeting  and  many  recommendations  were 
adopted at the general meeting in 2014. Those efforts 
led to a new model for cooperation — one that serves 
as a reference for the shared projects and activities in 
all areas for the next few years.
It would be difficult to cite here all the decisions 
adopted  and  activities  and  recommendations  put 
forth  in  the  most  recent  conference  on  cooperation, 
20/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
but  I  would  like  to  say  that,  in  addition  to  the 
recommendations adopted on maintaining international 
peace  and  security  —  including  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East  with  regard  to  the  Palestinian  cause  and 
security  in  Iraq,  Syria,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Yemen,  the 
Sudan  and  Somalia  —  recommendations  were  also 
made with regard to the areas of intellectual property, 
the  protection  of  heritage,  women’s  rights,  climate 
change  programmes,  scientific  research  policy,  post-
2015  development  programmes,  the  rights  of  disabled 
persons  and  programmes  on  the  quality  of  education. 
We also decided to appoint a special coordinator for all 
Arab organizations and the United Nations to improve 
communication  among  the  various  bodies.  Moreover, 
we agreed to appoint two coordinators for each of the 
four  committees  in  order  to  ensure  follow-up  to  the 
agreements commonly reached.
The  Office  for  Disarmament  Affairs  participated 
in  three  consultative  meetings  with  the  League  of 
Arab States and member States regarding the Helsinki 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass 
destruction. A number of member States of the League 
of  Arab  States  participated  in  regional  workshops, 
including in Pretoria in 2012, Addis Ababa in 2013 and 
Astana in 2014. In June 2013, the League of Arab States 
secretariat and the Office for Disarmament Affairs held 
a  two-day  joint  conference  on  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.
The  League  of  Arab  States  is  preparing  to  enter 
the  second  stage  of  its  implementation  of  the  Crisis 
Response  Centre  and  the  Early  Warning  System,  a 
project  that  was  established  in  cooperation  with  the 
European Union and the United Nations Development 
Programme.  We  would  like  to  note  the  ongoing 
productive  cooperation  between  the  League  and  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
during the second stage of the project. I also underscore 
the importance of establishing an Arab mechanism for 
humanitarian affairs.
We firmly believe in the role of the United Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in 
the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  in  providing  protection, 
assistance and essential services to Palestine refugees 
until we have a just and lasting solution to that issue. 
We  also  have  concerns  with  regard  to  the  difficulties 
encountered  by  UNRWA  on  account  of  the  increased 
demand  for  its  services  and  the  deteriorating  social, 
economic  and  humanitarian  conditions  in  the  region. 
Those  difficulties  make  UNRWA’s  task  in  the  five 
regions it serves more difficult. 
In response to that situation, the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the 
League of Arab States co-chaired a special meeting of 
a  group  of  supporters  of  UNRWA  at  the  sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly, which focused on the 
consolidation  of  the  contributions  of  Arab  countries 
to the UNRWA regular budget. I would also note that 
the League’s Secretary-General hosts an annual high-
level  strategic  meeting  of  directors  of  education  and 
other  officials  and  civil  society  representatives  from 
UNRWA  host  States.  During  those  meetings  we  talk 
about  services  for  Palestinian  refugees  to  mitigate 
their suffering and to allow them to have a sustainable 
subsistence.
With  regard  to  the  protection  of  children  in  the 
Arab world, the League of Arab States and the Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Children 
and Armed Conflict met on 22 September on the margins 
of a high-level meeting during the sixty-ninth session 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  signed  an  agreement 
on  children  who  are  victims  of  armed  conflicts.  The 
Secretary-General of the League of Arab States and the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations also signed a 
cooperation agreement. This is an important stage for 
preparing the Arab world to help those children so that 
they can live in conditions of peace, given the difficult 
conditions that we have seen in our part of the world for 
several years.
In May 2013, the secretariat of the League of Arab 
States,  UN-Women  and  the  Arab  Labour  Council 
worked  together  on  a  strategy  for  peace  and  security. 
An  important  stage  of  their  work  was  educating 
officials  and  all  stakeholders  regarding  international 
and  regional  decisions,  with  a  view  to  helping  them 
implement the adopted texts and to encouraging them 
to renew their commitments in that area. 
At  the  beginning  of  this  year,  the  Office  of  the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human 
Rights  and  the  League  also  held  a  conference  on  the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  the  strengthening  of 
those rights in the region. Subjects under consideration 
included  the  ongoing  cooperation  between  the  Office 
of  the  Commissioner  and  the  secretariat  with  regard 
to  technical  advice,  working  methods  and  the  Arab 
Human  Rights  Tribunal,  established  by  a  decision  of 
the Arab Summit in Doha in March 2013. 
14-61840
21/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
two  organizations 
I  have  noted  just  a  number  of  aspects  of  the 
cooperation  between  our 
in 
the  past  two  years.  That  cooperation  is  solid  and 
supported. It involves a number of projects in various 
areas — combating drug trafficking, crime, corruption, 
terrorism and human trafficking. We also cooperate in 
the legal, political, economic, social and cultural areas.
In conclusion, I should like to thank the Moroccan 
Ambassador,  Omar  Hilale,  who  presented  draft 
resolution A/69/L.9. I join others in the request that the 
draft resolution be adopted by consensus.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 
Assembly resolution 54/5 of 8 October 1999, I now give 
the floor to Mr. Victor Tvircun, Secretary General of the 
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation.
Mr.  Tvircun  (Organization  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation):  I  am  very  pleased  and 
deeply  honoured  to  address  the  General  Assembly  os 
the  representative  of  the  Organization  of  the  Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  (BSEC).  I  wish  to  thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the invitation and 
for  his  extensive  report  on  the  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
regional  organizations, 
including  BSEC  (A/69/228).  We  highly  appreciate 
that cooperation, and we want to see it enhanced in all 
areas  of  common  interest.  We  are  also  very  glad  that 
draft  resolution  A/69/L.14,  introduced  for  adoption 
by  the  General  Assembly,  both  testifies  to  increased 
interaction between our two organizations and provides 
useful guidelines for our future common endeavours.
In recent months, our region has been the focus of 
international  attention,  as  we  have  been  experiencing 
an  international  crisis,  the  most  significant  one  in 
decades. In the BSEC we hope for a swift normalization 
of  the  situation,  and  we  stay  focused  on  our  work,  in 
the firm belief that our efforts will help enhance what 
is  positive,  dynamic  and  constructive  in  the  wider 
Black  Sea  region.  Promoting  multilateral  economic 
cooperation  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
is  our  concrete  contribution  to  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity, and we consider that in the current situation, 
the  BSEC’s  practical,  results-oriented  approach  has 
gained in importance. 
We  intend  to  continue  in  the  same  mode,  with 
the  valuable  and  necessary  support  of  all  BSEC 
member  States  in  order  to  increase  the  efficiency 
and  effectiveness  of  our  organization  and  to  produce 
tangible  results  for  the  benefit  of  all  of  the  peoples 
in our region. In that context, I should like to briefly 
inform  the  General  Assembly  of  some  of  the  BSCE’s 
main priorities in the current period.
Our first priority is to accelerate the implementation 
of the “BSEC Economic Agenda: Towards an Enhanced 
BSEC Partnership”, a strategic document endorsed by 
the member States in 2012, reflecting their commitment 
to enhancing the economic mission of the BSEC. In that 
context,  our  priority  objectives  in  strategic  regional 
cooperation fall into various fields of activity, including 
transport,  institutional  renewal  and  good  governance, 
trade and economic development, banking and finance, 
environmental  protection,  sustainable  development, 
and  energy,  including  renewable  energy  and  energy 
efficiency.
is 
to  proceed  with 
Our  second  priority 
the 
activation  of  a  Project  Management  Unit  within  the 
BSEC  Permanent 
International  Secretariat.  That 
mature initiative is gradually taking shape and will help 
improve  the  organization’s  position  in  the  elaboration 
of  projects,  competition  for  funding  and  cooperation 
with partner organizations in joint activities. Through 
the activity of the Project Management Unit, utilizing 
human resources already available in the BSEC, we aim 
to  help  in  the  formulation  and  elaboration  of  project 
proposals in the areas mentioned and, after endorsement 
by  our  member  States,  to  support  their  development 
and  implementation,  also  through  securing  funding 
from third parties.
A  third  priority  on  our  agenda  is  to  consolidate 
the  activities  of  the  BSEC  working  groups,  which 
form  the  core  of  BSEC  functions.  Within  the  same 
framework,  we  aim  to  increase  cooperation  with  the 
BSEC-related bodies, as a necessary step for enhancing 
the  effectiveness  and  visibility  of  our  organization.  It 
must  be  remembered  that  the  BSEC  is  a  multifaceted 
organization 
includes  a  Parliamentary 
Assembly  and  the  BSEC  Business  Council,  the  Black 
Sea Trade and Development Bank and the International 
Centre  for  Black  Sea  Studies.  It  is  also  through  the 
activities  of  its  related  bodies  that  the  BSEC  proves 
its  usefulness,  resilience  in  the  changing  political 
landscape  and  ability  to  promote  regional  economic 
cooperation.
that  also 
The  next  objective  is  to  increase  cooperation  and 
coordination  with  similar  regional  organizations, 
such  as  the  Central  European  Initiative,  the  Danube 
22/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
Commission,  the  Union  for  the  Mediterranean,  the 
Baltic  Sea  Parliamentary  Conference  and  others. 
Another objective involves increasing the effectiveness 
and  efficiency  of  the  BSEC  Permanent  International 
Secretariat. This year marked the twentieth anniversary 
since  the  March  1994  creation  of  the  secretariat  as 
an  institution  aimed  at  furthering  the  principles  and 
objectives  of  the  BSEC  and  providing  support  to  the 
organization’s activities.
the 
The  BSEC  is  committed  to  promoting  fruitful 
cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies,  in  particular  to  developing  practical  and 
results-oriented  projects  in  areas  of  common  interest. 
In that regard, we are very pleased with the increasing 
cooperation  between  BSEC  and 
following 
the  United  Nations  Development 
organizations: 
Programme  (UNDP),  the  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission for Europe (UNECE), the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the International 
Organization for Migration (IOM), the United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP), the United Nations 
Industrial  Development  Organization  (UNIDO),  the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations and the World Wildlife Fund. We are similarly 
pleased  with  our  working  contacts  with  the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  World  Bank  and  the  World 
Tourism  Organization,  which  are  aimed  at  promoting 
sustainable development in the Black Sea region.
In  that  context,  we  are  also  very  satisfied  with 
the  results  of  the  Black  Sea  Trade  and  Investment 
Promotion  Programme,  the  first  partnership  project 
between BSEC and UNDP, launched in 2006 with the 
support of Greece and Turkey. It is a good example of 
concrete  cooperation  between  two  organizations.  The 
relocation  of  the  UNDP  Regional  Centre  to  Istanbul 
will  provide  more  opportunities  for  interaction  and 
enhanced cooperation.
In  the  field  of  transport,  BSEC  is  undertaking 
measures  to  improve  the  road  transport  of  goods,  in 
close cooperation with the International Road Transport 
Union and UNECE. In that context, I want to refer in 
particular to the introduction of the International Vehicle 
Weight  Certificate  project,  which  will  significantly 
decrease waiting times at the borders of the countries 
involved and facilitate the bilateral and transit transport 
of goods. With reference to those documents, I would 
like to extend special congratulations to the Republic 
of Moldova, the first country among the BSEC member 
States to introduce that certificate.
Our cooperation with UNECE is particularly well 
developed  within  the  framework  of  the  Cooperation 
Agreement  signed  between  the  two  organizations 
in  2001.  We  continue  our  activities  aimed  at  fully 
implementing 
the  2002  Cooperation  Agreement 
between  BSEC  and  UNEP  and  the  1997  Relationship 
Agreement  between  UNIDO  and  BSEC.  We  are  also 
pleased  that  cooperation  between  BSEC  and  the 
UNIDO  International  Centre  for  Hydrogen  Energy 
Technologies  has  been  established,  with  an  emphasis 
on energy and environment.
In  combatting  crime,  we  continue  our  fruitful 
cooperation  with  UNODC,  following  the  elaboration 
and adoption of the 2008 BSEC Regional Action Plan 
for  Strengthening  the  Criminal  Justice  Response  to 
Trafficking in Persons in the Black Sea Region, within 
the framework of a joint BSEC-UNODC project.
This  year,  we  were  also  able  to  open  a  new  era 
of  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies, finalizing the framework for our cooperation 
with the World Tourism Organization and signing the 
relevant  memorandum  on  the  sidelines  of  the  BSEC 
Meeting  of  Ministers  of  Tourism,  organized  by  the 
Hellenic Chairmanship-in-Office on 23 October 2014.
BSEC  also  became  a  member  of  the  Group  of 
Friends of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations 
in 2009. That enabled it to contribute to realizing the 
Alliance’s objectives through the promotion of projects 
designed to build bridges among diverse cultures and 
communities  and  to  foster  cross-cultural  exchange 
and  cooperation.  In  the  emerging  world  landscape, 
international organizations, and regional organizations 
in particular, are playing an important role. Each have 
their own specificities, which are determined by their 
respective regions and membership.
I want to take this opportunity to re-emphasize the 
importance of our cooperation with the European Union 
and to pledge our readiness to take concrete steps for 
the development of a mutually beneficial partnership. 
I would also like to invite the specialized agencies and 
other  organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United 
Nations system to strengthen their cooperation with the 
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
in order to continue programmes and create synergies 
aimed at preparing and implementing joint projects.
Before I conclude, I would like to express my thanks 
and pay a well-deserved tribute to the Hellenic Republic 
for its guidance and support as Chairperson-in-Office 
14-61840
23/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
of BSEC during the past six months and for preparing 
the  draft  resolution  in  document  A/69/L.14  that  this 
Assembly is about to adopt. I would also like to express 
my deep gratitude to all BSEC member States and to 
the  other  United  Nations  Member  States  who  have 
co-sponsored the draft resolution.
The President: We heave heard the last speaker on 
the debate on agenda item 123 and its sub-items (a) to 
(y).
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/69/L.8, A/69/L. 9, A/69/L.10, A/69/L.12, A/69/L.13, 
A/69/L.14 and A/69/L.16.
Before giving the floor to the speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  ten  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Pavlichenko  (Ukraine):  Before  the  General 
Assembly proceeds to the adoption of draft resolution 
A/69/L.10,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States”, 
I would like to make the following statement.
Right  from  the  outset,  it  has  to  be  stressed  that 
the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS)  has 
demonstrated  its  complete  reluctance  and  failure  to 
take  appropriate  and  political  measures  in  response 
to  the  aggression  against  Ukraine  being  carried  out 
by  a  leading  member  of  that  regional  organization, 
an  aggression  that  has  resulted  in  the  occupation  of 
part  of  our  territory.  CIS  keeps  pretending  that  no 
conflict  is  being  waged  by  the  Russian  Federation 
against  a  neighbouring  State  in  brutal  violation  of 
both  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  CIS 
Charter.  For  that  reason,  we  cannot  consider  CIS  as 
being able to advance appropriately and effectively the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  region,  particularly  in  the  context  of 
Chapter  VIII.  We  would  also  like  to  point  out  that 
Ukraine  does  not  coordinate  its  foreign  policy  with 
that regional organization. Contrary to the language in 
the explanatory memorandum accompanying the draft 
resolution,  which  is  contained  in  document  A/69/141, 
Ukraine is not a member State of the CIS, as we did not 
sign and ratify the CIS Charter.
Ukraine did not sign the decision of the Council of 
Heads of States of the Commonwealth of Independent 
States,  adopted  on  24  December  1993  in  Ashgabat, 
concerning  certain  measures  to  ensure  international 
recognition  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States and its statutory bodies with regard to granting 
observer status for the Commonwealth in the General 
Assembly.  In  not  signing,  Ukraine  acted  on  the  basis 
of  the  declaration  of  20  December  1991  of  Ukraine’s 
Verkhovna  Rada, 
the 
conclusion of the agreement on the Commonwealth of 
Independent States, which stated that Ukraine declined 
to grant the Commonwealth the status of a subject of 
international law.
its  parliament,  concerning 
The  delegation  of  Ukraine  would  like  to  draw 
attention  to  the  fact  that  the  basic  documents  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  —  that  is,  the 
Agreement on the establishment of the Commonwealth 
of  Independent  States,  the  Alma-Ata  Protocol  and 
the  Charter  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States — do not endow the Commonwealth with a status 
possessing  the  features  of  a  subject  of  international 
law.  The  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  is 
a  special  international  interregional  formation  that 
not  only  lacks  a  definite  status  but  in  fact  includes  a 
military and political alliance established on the basis 
of the Collective Security Treaty, signed in Tashkent on 
15 May 1992, which binds only some members of the 
Commonwealth.
Under  those  circumstances,  Ukraine  will  abstain 
from voting on draft resolution A/69/L.10, specifically 
based on the understanding that the Commonwealth of 
Independent States, in its cooperation with the United 
Nations,  legally  represents  only  those  countries  in 
the  Commonwealth  that  have  signed  and  ratified  the 
Charter of the Commonwealth of Independent States of 
22 January 1993.
interpreted  as  recognition  of 
Taking  all  of  those  facts  into  account,  Ukraine 
considers that the adoption of draft resolution A/69/L.10 
should  not  be 
the 
Commonwealth as a regional arrangement as defined in 
Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, i.e. 
one that can be considered responsible for dealing with 
matters  relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, particularly regarding enforcement 
action under the authority of the Security Council.
Mr.  Ibrahim  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My  delegation  would  like  to  speak  in 
explanation of vote before the vote on draft resolution 
A/69/L.16,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical Weapons”.
24/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
My  country,  Syria,  is  a  full  member  of  the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW).  We  attend  its  meetings  and  take  part  in  its 
discussions,  just  as  other  member  States  do.  Since 
becoming a member of the OPCW, Syria has abided by 
all the rules and requirements governing membership 
and by the resolutions of its Executive Council. It has 
fulfilled all its obligations before the scheduled deadline 
and  has  cooperated  with  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-United Nations Joint 
Mission for the Elimination of the Chemical Weapons 
Programme  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  and  with 
the  OPCW’s  team.  It  has  cooperated  and  coordinated 
in  every  way,  despite  the  fact  that  the  environment 
in which it was operating was not ideal, as we are all 
aware. The successful and total elimination of Syria’s 
chemical  weapons  programme  would  not  have  been 
possible  without  the  constructive  cooperation  of  the 
Syrian Government.
The preparation of draft resolution A/69/L.16 was 
carried  out  selectively.  It  is  typical  of  the  technical 
resolutions that we have voted on regularly in previous 
years, except that it now contains a paragraph that was 
drafted  without  consulting  us,  as  would  be  necessary 
and  legitimate.  That  raises  questions  and  doubts 
about  the  intentions  of  the  drafters  and  sponsors  in 
targeting  Syria  and  addressing  this  subject  politically 
in the General Assembly, as the discussion in the draft 
resolution is supposed to be limited exclusively to the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. 
Since  the  draft  resolution  is  supposed  to  be  a  purely 
technical  one,  not  directed  at  any  particular  country, 
doing so sets a precedent and intentionally targets my 
country, which my Government rejects.
relating 
regional 
cooperation are supposed to be free of any mention of 
specific States, and the mention of my country in draft 
resolution  A/69/L.16  raises  the  question  of  why  my 
country,  which  has  cooperated  with  the  international 
community to an unprecedented extent, has been thus 
targeted. My country therefore reiterates its request that 
the politicization of this topic be stopped. There are no 
more  chemical  weapons  programmes  in  my  country. 
The subject is now over and done with. Syria continues 
to  cooperate  constructively  with  the  Organization  for 
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and we therefore 
see absolutely no reason for the inclusion of paragraph 
2 in the draft resolution, since it reflects the subjective 
and political targeting of our country and the continued 
resolutions 
All  draft 
to 
pursuit of certain countries’ well-known practices. The 
delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic will accordingly 
abstain from voting on draft resolution A/69/L.16.
Mr. Robatjazi (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like to explain my delegation’s position before the vote 
on  draft  resolution  A/69/L.16,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for 
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons”. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  as  the  main  victim 
of  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  recent  history, 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  full  implementation 
of the Chemical Weapons Convention. In that context, 
Iran  has  always  supported  and  contributed  to  the 
effective work of the Organization for the Prohibition 
of Chemical Weapons and will continue to do so.
Based  on  that  principled  position,  my  delegation 
will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/69/L.16  as  a 
whole.  However,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express 
its  strong  dissatisfaction  with  the  fact  that  the  draft 
resolution’s sponsor has totally ignored and overlooked 
established practice and traditional working methods in 
preparing this year’s version of the draft resolution. The 
draft was prepared and circulated without conducting 
any transparent, inclusive consultations. Moreover, the 
draft resolution, which was circulated only a few days 
ago,  contains  some  substantive  references  regarding 
ongoing  developments  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Convention in the Syrian Arab Republic.
the 
for 
time 
Given 
lack  of  sufficient 
the 
consideration by the relevant authorities in our capital 
of the draft resolution’s new and substantive provisions, 
we requested, in a spirit of goodwill, that the sponsor 
of the draft resolution postpone action on it in order to 
enable  concerned  delegations  to  consult  their  capitals 
and  get  appropriate  instructions.  We  regret  that  the 
sponsor  has  ignored  that  request  and  has  decided 
to  proceed  to  take  action  on  the  draft  resolution.  My 
delegation is therefore not in a position to vote in favour 
of paragraph 2 of the draft resolution, which includes 
new,  substantive  provisions.  We  call  on  the  sponsor 
to  review  and  change  its  approach  to  drafting  and 
introducing this draft resolution next year and to refrain 
from turning a resolution that has long been adopted by 
consensus into a substantive and controversial text.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of vote.
14-61840
25/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolutions 
A/69/L.8,  A/69/L.9,  A/69/L.10,  A/69/L.12,  A/69/L.13, 
A/69/L.14 and A/69/L.16.
Draft resolution A/69/L.8 is entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Central European 
Initiative”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of the draft resolution, and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document, 
Georgia has become a sponsor of A/69/L.8.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/69/L.8?
Draft resolution A/69/L.8 was adopted (resolution 
69/8).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.9 
is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): In connection with draft 
resolution A/69/L.9, entitled “Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the League of Arab States”, I wish 
to put on the record the following statement of financial 
implications  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-General  in 
accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of 
the General Assembly.
In  paragraph  7  of  draft  resolution  A/69/L.9,  the 
General  Assembly  would  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
holding the thirteenth general meeting on cooperation 
between  the  representatives  of  the  secretariats  of  the 
United Nations system and the General Secretariat of the 
League of Arab States during 2016, for which the dates 
and venue will be agreed upon in due course between 
the two secretariats. Pursuant to the request contained 
in paragraph 7, the thirteenth general meeting between 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States is to 
be held in 2016. It is understood that all issues related 
to the meeting, including the date, format, organization 
and scope, are yet to be determined.
Accordingly, in the absence of the modalities for the 
meeting, it is not possible at the present time to estimate 
the potential cost implications of the requirements for 
meetings and documentation. Upon the decision on the 
modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the  meeting, 
the Secretary-General would submit the relevant costs 
of  such  requirements  in  accordance  with  rule  153 
of  the  rules  of  procedures  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Accordingly, the adoption of draft resolution A/69/L.9 
would not give rise to any financial implications under 
the programme budget.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/69/L.9?
Draft resolution A/69/L.9 was adopted (resolution 
69/9).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.10  is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States”. May I take 
it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.10?
Draft resolution A/69/L.10 was adopted (resolution 
69/10).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.12  is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization”.  May  I  take 
it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.12?
Draft resolution A/69/L.12 was adopted (resolution 
69/11).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.13  is 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization”. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft 
resolution A/69/L.13?
Draft resolution A/69/L.13 was adopted (resolution 
69/12).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  A/69/L.14  is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of the draft resolution, and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
26/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
resolution A/69/L.14: Germany, Hungary, Montenegro 
and Spain.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/69/L.14?
Draft resolution A/69/L.14 was adopted (resolution 
69/13).
The  President:  We  now  turn  to  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.16,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical Weapons”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of the draft resolution, and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/69/L.16:  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Hungary, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  San  Marino,  Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of 
America.
The President: A recorded vote has been requested 
on  paragraph  2  of  draft  resolution  A/69/L.16  and  on 
draft resolution A/69/L.16 as a whole. I shall first put 
to the vote paragraph 2 of draft resolution A/69/L.16.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Chile, China, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Indonesia,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Netherlands,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  San 
Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sudan, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand,  Togo,  Turkey, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States of America, Viet Nam
Against:
None
Abstaining:
Bahamas, Belarus, Cameroon, Egypt, Guyana, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Libya, Syrian Arab Republic
Operative paragraph 2 was retained by 93 votes to 
none, with 8 abstentions.
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  Egypt,  Guyana, 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libya and 
the Philippines informed the Secretariat that they 
had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  draft  resolution  A/69/L.16  as  a  whole, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: 
Austria, 
Azerbaijan, 
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational 
State  of),  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  China,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guinea,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
(Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia,  Libya, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Netherlands,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay, 
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, 
Indonesia, 
Iran 
14-61840
27/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa, 
Spain,  Sudan,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, 
Turkey,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
lie  at  the  core  of  United  Nations  partnerships  with 
regional organizations. Those principles and norms have 
been repeatedly violated by one member of the CSTO, 
which annexed a part of its neighbour and continues to 
finance  and  support  illegal  military  activities  against 
that  neighbouring  State.  Such  behaviour  runs  counter 
to  everything  for  which  United  Nations  cooperation 
with regional organizations stands.
Against:
None
Abstaining:
Guyana
Draft  resolution  A/69/L.16  was  adopted  by  108 
votes to none, with 1 abstention (resolution 69/14).
[Subsequently, 
the  delegations  of  Cambodia, 
Guyana,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
and  the  Philippines  informed  the  Secretariat  that 
they had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolutions 
just  adopted,  I  would  like  to  remind  delegations  that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mrs. Jakubonė (Lithuania): Lithuania would like 
to make a statement in explanation of its position after 
the adoption of resolution 69/12 on cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Collective Security Treaty 
Organization (CSTO).
Time  and  again,  we  have  seen  the  important  role 
that  regional  organizations  can  play  in  promoting 
conflict  resolution,  peace  negotiations  and  mediation, 
and other matters of international peace and security. 
The  European  Union,  the  Organization  for  Security 
and  Co-operation  in  Europe,  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic  Community  of  Western  African  States, 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States 
and  many  others  have  been  working  closely  with  the 
United  Nations  for  years  now.  We  therefore  welcome 
the  adoption  of 
resolutions  on  United  Nations 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations  and  support 
the development of United Nations relations with them. 
At  the  same  time,  we  would  like  to  underline 
that  the  promotion  of  United  Nations  purposes  and 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  respect  for  international  legal  norms  and 
internationally  accepted  principles  of  behaviour  must 
We  reiterate  our  profound  concern  over  Russia’s 
attempt  to  redraw  the  borders  of  twenty-first-century 
Europe and therefore note our strong unease with the 
text  adopted  today  with  regard  to  the  United  Nations 
cooperation  with  the  CSTO.  We  call  on  Russia  to 
cease  its  hostile  actions  against  Ukraine  and  to  abide 
by  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  including  respect  for  the  sovereignty,  unity, 
independence and territorial integrity of its neighbours. 
Russia  cannot  have  any  claims  on  a  peacekeeping  or 
peacebuilding  role  in  the  region,  since  its  actions  are 
the core cause of the conflict in Ukraine.
We urge CSTO members to call on Russia to return 
to  the  internationally  accepted  norms  of  behaviour 
and  to  put  an  end  to  its  attacks  on  the  territory  of  a 
neighbouring State.
Mr. Ceylan (Turkey): Turkey is committed to the 
ultimate  goal  of  the  total  elimination  of  all  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  It  fulfils  its  commitments  under 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and on their Destruction as the sole international legally 
binding  instrument  that  bans  an  entire  category  of 
weapons of mass destruction. Turkey pursues effective 
cooperation  with  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition 
of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). 
Turkey is also convinced that enhanced cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OPCW  is  an 
important  tool  for  addressing  various  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  challenges.  Based  on 
that 
understanding,  we  co-sponsored 
resolution  67/8, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons,”  which  was  adopted  by  consensus  in  2012. 
However, the very worrisome developments that have 
been taking place in Syria — namely, the systematic and 
persistent use of chemical weapons against civilians by 
regime forces — since the General Assembly adopted 
that  resolution  oblige  us  to  view  the  issue  from  a 
different perspective.
28/30 
14-61840
11/11/2014 
A/69/PV.48
From  Turkey’s  standpoint,  greater 
focus  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OPCW 
with respect to Syria has become all the more crucial and 
must be more rigorous and effective in order to prevent 
the continued use of chemical weapons and compel the 
regime to fully comply with its obligations. More has to 
be done in Syria pertaining to United Nations-OPCW 
cooperation. We therefore believe that resolution 69/14 
should  have  made  clearer  reference  to  those  pending 
issues,  which  would  have  certainly  secured  Turkey’s 
sponsorship once again. We nonetheless supported the 
resolution,  bearing  in  mind  that  effective  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OPCW  will 
advance  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  goals  in 
the  field  of  chemical  weapons.  It  is  incumbent  on  all 
Member States to enhance such cooperation. However, 
we deem it necessary to make the following remarks.
First,  the  resolution  makes  no  reference  to  the 
continued use of chemical weapons in Syria, which must 
be seen as the most pressing issue within the context of 
United Nations-OPCW cooperation. According to our 
information, as recently as 5 November regime forces 
in  Jobar  conducted  another  chlorine  attack  against 
civilians, causing death and injuries. 
Although  the  resolution  mentions  the  Mission  to 
Investigate Allegations of the Use of Chemical Weapons 
in the Syrian Arab Republic, which was dispatched to 
look into the attacks that took place in Quetta in August 
2013, and Joint Mission of the OPCW and the United 
Nations for the Elimination of the Chemical Weapons 
Programme of the Syrian Arab Republic, it does not refer 
to the OPCW Fact-Finding Mission, whose mandate is 
still active and whose second report contains important 
findings and conclusions about the persistent chemical 
weapons threat in Syria. Given the explicit mandate of 
the OPCW to inform the relevant United Nations organs 
on non-compliance cases in Syria under the provisions 
of resolution 2118 (2013), Turkey is convinced that the 
transmission  of  that  report  to  the  Security  Council 
would be an important sign of cooperation between the 
United Nations and the OPCW.
Last but not least, the resolution, while mentioning 
that  the  OPCW-United  Nations  Joint  Mission  ended 
on  30  September  2014,  does  not  make  any  reference 
to  the  remaining  Syrian  chemical-weapon  production 
facilities and the issue of the inaccurate and incomplete 
declarations  made  by  the  regime  with  regard  to  the 
dismantlement  of  its  chemical-weapons  programme. 
Turkey therefore firmly believes that until those gaps, 
inconsistencies  are 
discrepancies  and 
thoroughly 
addressed in a credible manner, which is incumbent on 
the regime, no one can say that United Nations-OPCW 
cooperation has achieved its ultimate goal in Syria. We 
should not forget that every delay and every loophole in 
the destruction of Syria’s remaining chemical-weapons 
capabilities  give  the  regime  a  free  hand  to  further 
increase its brutal oppression against its own people.
The  Syrian  regime’s  remaining  chemical-weapon 
capabilities  and  the  use  of  chemical  agents  against 
civilians constitute flagrant violations of international 
law  and  continue  to  undermine  international  peace 
and security. As such, they will continue to occupy the 
international security agenda, and the Syrian case will 
remain open.
Mr.  Agasandyan  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  We  are  grateful  to  the  delegation  of  the 
Netherlands  for  the  preparation  of  resolution  69/14, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”.
Based on the spirit of cooperation and constructive 
interaction, we supported the consensus adoption of the 
document. However, we would like to emphasize that 
such general and technical resolutions should not contain 
references  to  any  specific  country  issues.  Otherwise, 
we would need to put in the text other measures, just as 
important, to investigate cases of the use of chemical 
weapons. In our view, it would have been much more 
effective to talk about the facts surrounding the award 
to  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons  (OPCW)  of  the  Nobel  Prize  in  December 
2013. We regret that our request was ignored.
With  respect  to  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the OPCW on the so-called Syrian dossier, 
we  would  like  to  note  that  this  investigation  was 
initiated by Damascus itself, which provided maximum 
cooperation  to  the  international  experts’  mission.  If 
there had been an issue, this would have been objectively 
reflected in the draft resolution.
Ms.  Xiao  Yue  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese delegation voted in favour of resolution 69/14, 
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW).  China  appreciates  the  effective  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the OPCW. At the same 
time, we believe that the OPCW should have played a 
14-61840
29/30
A/69/PV.48 
11/11/2014
leading role in the destruction of chemical weapons in 
Syria.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of vote after the voting.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Syrian Arab Republic, who wishes to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Ibrahim  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): Apparently the representative of Turkey and of 
the Turkish regime is quite used to violating the general 
procedures of the General Assembly. As a sponsor of 
resolution 69/14, he should not be allowed to speak in 
explanation of vote after the voting.
Apparently he also has knowledge about locations 
involving 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  against 
members of the Syrian army and civilians in Syria, but 
he intentionally overlooks the fact that his Government 
and  regime  provide  terrorist  organizations,  including 
the  Al-Nusra  Front  and  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and 
the Levant, with various forms of weapons, including 
chemical weapons. Since the incident involving the use 
of sarin gas against Syrian civilians in Khan al-Assal 
in  2013,  this  has  been  confirmed  by  the  presence  of 
terrorist  elements  possessing  two  litres  of  Sarin  gas 
in  Turkish  territory,  which  were  overlooked  by  the 
authorities in Ankara, even with cooperation by these 
authorities.
The  Turkish  representative  overlooks  all  reports 
about the use of terrorist organizations in Syria and in 
Iraq of chemical weapons. This policy of overlooking 
those facts is an indication of the policy of cooperation 
and partnership between the Turkish regime and those 
terrorist organizations, which use Turkish territory for 
their activities.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to clarify 
for the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic that 
Turkey was not a sponsor of resolution 69/14.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
sub-items  (d),  (f),  (g),  (o),  (q),  (w)  and  (y)  of  agenda 
item 123?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
30/30 
14-61840
