United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
9th plenary meeting
Thursday, 25 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, President of 
the Republic of the Niger
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of the Niger.
Issoufou,  President  of 
the 
Mr.  Mahamadou 
Republic of the Niger, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, President of the 
Republic of the Niger, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Issoufou (spoke in French): Allow me to 
offer my sincere condolences to the French Government 
for the cowardly murder of one of its citizens yesterday, 
24 September, in Algeria by the so-called Soldiers of 
the Caliphate.
Sociopolitical  crises,  religious  extremism,  armed 
conflict, terrorism, cross-border crime, identity politics, 
development issues, the effects of climate change and 
pandemics such as that currently caused by the Ebola 
virus  are  now  concerns  of  the  utmost  importance 
that  are  crying  out  for  action  from  all  players  of  the 
international community.
In  order  to  meet  the  challenges  of  promoting 
peace, stability, security and development, we have to 
further strengthen the spirit of sharing and solidarity. 
“Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015  development  agenda”,  which  the  Assembly 
has identified as the theme of the general debate of the 
sixty-ninth session, provides a good link with the theme 
of  last  year’s  session.  That  gives  us  an  opportunity 
once  again  to  further  explore  the  questions  that  are 
of concern to all of us. It is nearly post-2015 already, 
and  crafting  a  programme  that  goes  beyond  that  date 
requires that we take stock of the implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
in 
Despite 
the 
progress 
remarkable 
the 
implementation of some of those goals, it is now clear 
that there are still vast gaps in other goals, which will 
persist when the programme is concluded. With respect 
to the Niger, for example, the implementation of the 3N 
Initiative,  “Les  Nigériens  nourrissent  les  Nigériens”, 
has already allowed us to achieve target C of MDG 1, 
which  has  to  do  with  reducing  by  half  the  number  of 
people  who  are  suffering  from  hunger.  The  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  has 
recognized  that,  in  that  area,  the  Niger  has  achieved 
impressive  results  in  record  time.  Our  country  has 
also achieved target A of MDG 6, with an HIV/AIDS 
prevalence  rate  of  0.4  per  cent  in  2012,  as  compared 
with a target of 0.7 per cent in 2015.
With respect to reducing by half the proportion of 
people whose income is less than $1 per day, ensuring 
primary  education  for  all,  strengthening  gender 
equality and the empowerment of women, dealing with 
the  mortality  of  children  under  five  years,  reducing 
maternal  mortality  and  promoting  a  sustainable 
environment, major efforts have ben undertaken. Still, 
those goals will most likely not be achieved, despite the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54841 (E)
*1454841*
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
implementation of the programme of recovery currently 
under way since my election in 2011.
In drafting the new post-2015 agenda, we naturally 
need  to  maintain  all  of  the  unachieved  MDGs  and 
provide  for  measures  to  avoid  a  deterioration  in 
areas  where  the  goals  have  already  been  achieved. 
For  example,  the  issue  of  the  demographic  dividend 
should  be  a  priority  on  the  agenda.  The  demographic 
dividend,  the  Assembly  will  recall,  consists  of  both 
the  demographic  transition  and  inclusive  economic 
growth.  More  specifically,  the  demographic  dividend 
means, on the one hand, reducing maternal, infant and 
juvenile  mortality  and  controlling  birth  and,  on  the 
other hand, providing for sustainable development with 
its  three  pillars:  economic,  social  and  environmental. 
The  demographic  transition  is  needed  to  strengthen 
sustained  growth,  which  in  turn  should  accelerate 
the  demographic  transition.  I  continue  to  believe  that 
the  best  contraceptive  method,  the  best  condom,  is 
sustainable development.
threatened  by 
The  post-2015  agenda  will  be  dominated  by  what 
I  would  call  the  three  D’s  —  defence  or  security, 
democracy  and  development.  It  is  fortunate  that  the 
international  community  has  now  established  a  close 
correlation among those three fundamental challenges, 
which  are  interconnected.  Global  peace  and  security 
today  are,  however, 
terrorism,  by 
organized  crime,  by  demands  based  on  identity  and 
by  the  growth  of  inequality,  which  have  led  to  the 
worsening  of  poverty  around  the  world,  from  Iraq  to 
Libya, from Syria to Nigeria and from Mali to Somalia.
The  enemies  who  embody  that  terrorist  threat 
are  engaged  in  an  unconventional  and  asymmetrical 
combat. They are sending out propaganda through their 
actions and seek to control populations through terror, 
including rape; kidnapping young girls, as in Chibok, 
Nigeria; taking hostages in exchange for ransom: and 
murder.  The  war  pursued  against  them  is  no  longer 
a  conventional,  industrial  war  of  the  kind  for  which 
our  armies  have  been  trained.  Warfare  among  our 
populations  is  not  a  new  phenomenon,  but  in  recent 
years, it has taken on an exceptional dimension. To deal 
with that situation, we need to change the paradigm and 
move  from  a  paradigm  of  classic  conventional  war  to 
that of the war that takes place among our populations, 
which, in turn, presupposes that our countries reform 
their armies. That also presupposes that our countries 
train special forces that are capable of adapting to the 
methods of the enemy.
In  order  to  eradicate  the  Islamic  State  or  the 
Al-Nusra Front in Iraq and Syria, neutralize the jihadist 
organizations in Libya, overcome Al-Qaida in the Islamic 
Maghreb and Al-Mourabitoun in the Sahel, particularly 
in  Mali,  and  oust  the  Al-Shabaab  from  Somalia  and 
Boko  Haram  in  Nigeria,  the  international  community 
needs to establish a shared goal and strategy, working 
with the countries involved. The common political aim 
is to defend our democratic institutions and protect our 
peoples.  The  strategy  would  then  necessarily  have  to 
do  with  cutting  off  the  sources  financing  terrorism, 
whether  those  sources  are  States  or  the  drug  trade  or 
the payment of ransom. The strategy also needs to deal 
with the terrorist strategy, which generates propaganda 
through its actions, and unfortunately, its propaganda 
is heavily covered by the media and social media on the 
Internet. In addition, a just settlement of the Palestinian 
issue could certainly contribute to the fight against this 
scourge.
As  a  neighbour  of  Libya,  Nigeria  and  Mali,  the 
Niger is deeply concerned by the situation prevailing in 
those countries. In Libya, the international community, 
together with neighbouring countries, must establish the 
conditions that would enable it to neutralize the militias, 
reconcile  all  Libyans  without  exception  and  form  a 
Government  of  union  that  would  organize  elections 
under the guidance of the international community. The 
current United Nations Support Mission in Libya must 
be replaced by a more robust structure, and in this case, 
a  stabilization  and  institution-building  mission.  The 
international  community  will  then  have  to  undertake 
a  vast  diplomatic  initiative  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  promote  national  reconciliation, 
which is needed to bring about the end of violence and 
chaos as well as to assist in the emergence of the true 
rule of law.
Whatever the case may be, as the leader of a country 
that  is  a  neighbour  of  Libya  and  whose  economy  and 
security have been seriously affected by what has been 
taking place there for three years, my belief is that it is 
dangerous to leave the current state of affairs in play as 
it is. We therefore need to have the courage to radically 
change  our  perspective  and  act  so  as  to  help  Libyans 
realize their sole aspiration, which is to live in peace.
With  respect  to  Nigeria,  Boko  Haram  has  been 
extremely aggressive and has demonstrated a barbarism 
never  seen  before,  with  its  recent  incursions  into 
Cameroon  and  the  occupation  of  ever  more  territory, 
going  so  far  as  to  threaten  Maiduguri,  the  capital  of 
2/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
the  federated  state  of  Borno  in  Nigeria.  It  is  evident 
that  that  terrorist  group  has  aims  that  are  much 
larger  than  had  been  thought.  That  means  that  more 
effort  and  cooperation  are  needed  at  the  regional  and 
international  levels  in  order  to  deal  with  the  problem 
effectively.  It  is  in  that  perspective  that  the  heads  of 
State and Government of Cameroon, the Niger, Nigeria 
and  Chad  —  the  members  of  the  Lake  Chad  Basin 
Commission  —  and  Benin,  will  meet  in  Niamey  on 
7 October 2014 to pool their efforts in the fight against 
this serious threat.
Regarding Mali, I welcome the inclusive inter-Malian 
dialogue that is currently taking place under the auspices 
of Algeria. I express the hope that the dialogue will lead 
to  an  agreement  that  respects  the  unity  and  integrity 
of  Mali.  In  Mali,  as  in  the  Central  African  Republic, 
the  question  of  unity  is  essential.  The  Pandora’s  box 
of Balkanization, which has been opened elsewhere in 
Africa, must be closed again if we do not want the rest 
of  the  continent  to  catch  fire.  The  future  of  Africa  is 
in its unity. The best way to do away with the borders 
inherited from colonization is not to create new borders 
along ethnic or religious lines, but to go beyond current 
borders through integration.
Global security can be ensured only by States with 
strong  and  stable  democratic  institutions.  The  post-
2015  programme  must  be  a  priority.  Global  security 
can  also  not  be  guaranteed  as  long  as  inequalities  in 
trade  between  nations  and  income  inequality  within 
nations  persist.  Inequalities  are  morally  unacceptable 
and  economically  inefficient.  Therefore,  the  struggle 
against inequality has always been an essential question 
and one that we must stop avoiding, if we want a more 
just, humane and prosperous world. That struggle must 
be central to the post-2015 programme.
Observers  are  unanimous  in  saying  that  Africa, 
with its high rates of economic growth, is the continent 
of the twenty-first century. That is true, but only if our 
continent definitively emerges from the unequal trade 
situation  and  from  the  colonial  pact  that  has  always 
treated Africa as merely a reservoir of raw materials, 
often  sold  cheaply,  as  in  the  old  days  when  slaves  or 
vast territories were acquired in exchange for mirrors, 
pins,  needles  and  other  junk.  The  African  continent 
will  actually  be  the  continent  of  the  twenty-first 
century  when  it,  itself,  works  with  its  raw  materials, 
that  is  to  say  once  it  takes  the  place  that  it  deserves 
in  world  industrial  production.  Africa  will  be  the 
continent of the twenty-first century once its relations 
with other nations are governed by equitable trade and 
not by official development assistance. Africa will be 
the  continent  of  the  twenty-first  century  when  there 
is a huge middle class arising from good political and 
economic governance, including a better distribution of 
income to reduce poverty.
Currently,  according  to  a  study  by  the  African 
Development Bank, the African middle class, which is 
defined as the proportion of Africans with an income 
between $2 and $20 a day, represents about 30 per cent 
of the population. Our ambition should be to increase 
that number to 80 per cent. The vision contained in the 
2063 agenda of the African Union suggests that we are 
on the right track. It is in the interest of the international 
community to include priorities that are on the agenda 
of our continent in the post-2015 programme.
The twenty-first century must be the century when 
Africa  equips  itself  with  roads  and  rail  and  energy 
infrastructure and new information and communication 
technologies. It will also be the century of an agriculture 
that feeds our population, which is growing larger, and 
the century of access to water and sanitation services 
and  to  education,  including  vocational  and  technical 
training to enable each young person to have a trade.
However, if our children and grandchildren are to 
have a chance at having a better quality of life, we must 
meet  the  challenge  of  climate  change.  In  that  regard, 
we must congratulate Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
on his initiative to convene the Climate Summit. That 
conference’s outcome will be the basis for the decisions 
that  the  international  community  is  called  upon  to 
take  at  the  climate  conference  to  be  held  in  Paris  in 
December 2015.
We have the imperative duty to save our planet. The 
global temperature is increasing owing to greenhouse 
gases, which have led, to take the example of the Sahel 
region,  to  a  decrease  in  rainfall  and  reduced  water 
flows, with the silting up of waterways, as in the case of 
the Niger River; the drying up of Lake Chad, which has 
lost 90 per cent of its area in 50 years, shrinking from 
25,000  square  kilometres  to  2,500;  extreme  flooding 
and drought; reduced plant cover, including forest loss; 
reduced biodiversity; reduced crop yields; and thus the 
impoverishment of the population, whose young people 
then become an easy target for recruitment by terrorists 
and organized crime.
However, since the United Nations Climate Change 
Conference in Copenhagen, we have seen not a decrease 
14-54841
3/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
but an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. If nothing 
is done, the temperature increase may surpass 2 degrees 
centigrade in 20 to 30 years and reach 4 degrees by the 
end of the century. We must therefore regroup and focus 
on  promoting  clean  energy,  such  as  hydro-electricity, 
nuclear energy and solar energy, provided that, in the 
latter case, we create competitive conditions for it. We 
also need to promote what is called smart agriculture 
and make adjustments in the industrial, transport and 
construction sectors.
I  hope  that  humanity  will  not  squander  the 
opportunity that will be provided in Paris. I hope that 
we  will  implement  a  development  model  that  will 
enable us to save our planet. I hope that we will be able 
to build a more just and humane world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Niger 
for the statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Mahamadou 
Republic  of  the  Niger,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Issoufou,  President  of 
Address by Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the 
Slovak Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Kiska:  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session and to 
wish you every success in your important duties.
Let me begin with a quote by Edward Wilson:
“The great challenge of the twenty-first century 
is to raise people everywhere to a decent standard 
of living, while preserving as much of the rest of 
life as possible.”
To  preserve  life  and  the  sustainability  of  the  planet 
for  every  human  is  not  pure  theory.  It  is  a  practical 
question  for  our  future  and  for  that  of  our  children. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  post-2015 
framework  and  the  challenge  of  climate  change  must 
form  much  more  than  the  theoretical  basis  for  our 
discussions.  Those  goals  must  identify,  address,  offer 
a  solution  to  and  solve  problems  that  in  one  or  two 
generations may bring the human race to the brink of 
its own existence.
Seventy  years  ago,  when  the  Second  World  War 
caused  tens  of  millions  of  deaths,  consuming  all  of 
the principles of humanity, the patriots and democrats 
in  my  country,  Slovakia,  took  up  arms  and  put  their 
lives  at  risk  to  fight  against  evil  and  for  liberty  and 
democratic  values.  They  fought  together  with  many 
other nations to establish the foundation for new global 
cooperation, given shape a year later with the adoption 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  horrors  of 
the Second World War, the failure of the international 
community to maintain world peace, the direct threat 
on  the  part  of  larger  countries  to  use  force  against 
smaller ones and the absence of an international order 
and rules that are be universally accepted and respected 
were a painful lesson for us all.
Cooperation among nations has come a long way in 
the past seven decades. The United Nations has played 
an important role on that road, but we have not gathered 
here to celebrate a false sense of success. We have to 
go much further than simply to identify challenges. It 
would be a lost opportunity if political correctness and 
diplomatic language were to limit us from openly and 
freely naming and discussing the problems that plague 
our world and the continents, countries and citizens that 
we represent. We must not betray the commitments that 
we all made to the principles of democracy, peace and 
security for every single citizen of our planet. We must 
look into the mirror to see what we are doing, how we do 
it, what we are doing or have done wrong and what we 
can do better. We believed that the number of conflicts 
would  gradually  decrease  as  our  civilization  matured 
and  developed.  However,  today,  we  are  confronted 
with  the  opposite  reality.  Instability  is  increasingly 
becoming the new status quo. Instability, poverty and 
hatred are the fertilizers and catalysts of terrorism, and 
terrorism is a threat to which no one is immune.
A  year  ago,  we  Europeans  could  hardly  imagine 
that, after investing so much effort in achieving peace 
and  stability  in  our  continent,  a  new  armed  conflict 
would arise in our neighbourhood. Conflict is dangerous 
both  in  its  nature  and  in  its  consequences.  Twenty 
years  ago,  Ukraine  abandoned  its  nuclear  programme 
in  exchange  for  the  security  and  territorial  integrity 
guarantees  granted  by  the  United  States,  the  United 
4/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Kingdom,  China,  France  and  the  Russian  Federation. 
Today,  instead  of  marking  a  major  anniversary  of 
achievement in the area of security and stability on the 
European continent, we are witnessing armed conflict 
and  political  instability.  Instead  of  building  a  world 
without  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  we  encourage 
those  countries  that  seek  security  under  the  lethal 
nuclear umbrella.
Slovakia  strongly  denounces  violations  of  the 
territorial  integrity  of  any  State.  That  is  a  trademark 
of  our  foreign  policy.  It  is  a  pillar  for  the  stability  of 
the geopolitical architecture. We support that principle, 
and  Ukraine  and  the  annexation  of  the  Crimea  are 
not  an  exception.  We  are  nevertheless  convinced  that 
dialogue and diplomatic efforts, with the participation 
of  Russia,  will  lead  to  sustainable  peace  in  Ukraine. 
We must respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine and 
the sovereign right of its people to decide their fate in a 
free and independent manner. The United Nations plays 
a crucial role in that matter. What Ukraine needs today 
is  to  restore  peace  and  stability,  implement  reforms 
and be reassured of the strength of the guarantees for 
the  inviolability  of  its  territory.  Slovakia  is  ready  to 
participate in that process.
Diplomatic  language  is  full  of  allegories,  but 
even  the  nicest  language  cannot  hide  the  naked  truth 
when  people  are  being  killed.  Acts  of  barbarism  and 
cruelty have become a freely available article. They are 
broadcast live to our homes. They make us insensitive 
to violence far away. At the same time, they create the 
feeling of having being born into an unsafe world, in 
which  people  ask:  where  is  the  effective  protective 
umbrella of the United Nations?
A year ago, we could not imagine the sudden rise 
of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL), 
which has become a global threat in a short time. It has 
overshadowed the long-term effort of the international 
community  in  Iraq.  The  ideology  and  acts  of  ISIL 
represent  an  unprecedented  level  of  brutality  and  the 
twisted  use  of  the  media  for  their  self-promotion.  It 
represents  the  dangerous  ideology  of  forcing  violent 
changes  to  State  borders.  It  embodies  ethnic  and 
religious cleansing, which will not stop at the borders 
of Iraq, Syria or the neighbouring countries, but has the 
ambition to spread beyond the region of the Middle East. 
The entire global community has the responsibility to 
act in order to end the suffering of the innocent victims 
of violence and to protect children and women. Today, 
we must to stand united in Iraq and prevent ISIL from 
taking  root  in  the  territory  it  has  occupied  and  from 
consolidating its military and economic power.
Autocratic and totalitarian ideologies always bring 
suffering,  the  restriction  of  rights,  internal  conflict, 
injustice  and  death.  We  are  all  too  familiar  with 
their  ultimate  price  and  catastrophic  consequences. 
Among  the  many  tasks  facing  the  United  Nations 
are  the  prevention  of  such  ideologies  from  becoming 
successful, the protection of human rights, the adoption 
of  every  possible  preventive  measures  to  prevent 
conflict and the establishment of sustainable peace.
Slovakia,  with  its  own  first-hand  experience  of 
transitioning from a totalitarian regime to democracy, 
supports efforts to create the conditions necessary for 
sustainable peace. We promote security sector reform 
as  one  of  the  key  factors  for  success  in  the  peaceful 
development  in  regions  emerging  from  conflict,  as 
well  as  for  States  going  through  a  regime  change  to 
democracy. Stable security institutions such as the police 
and military can better fulfil their duties to safeguard 
human  rights  and  protect  their  citizens,  especially 
society’s  most  vulnerable  members,  including  women 
and girls.
The Slovak Republic actively fulfils its commitments 
to Afghanistan. The United Nations Assistance Mission 
in Afghanistan is led by a diplomat from Slovakia. We 
remain  convinced  that  in  the  aftermath  of  the  recent 
presidential  election,  the  new  Afghan  leadership  will 
be  able  to  create  the  conditions  needed  to  achieve 
national  and  social  unity  and  to  continue  supporting 
international  assistance.  I  am  pleased  to  note  that  the 
two  former  presidential  candidates  have  reached  an 
agreement, and we believe that that will contribute to 
Afghanistan’s  stability.  Slovakia  is  ready  to  continue 
to  do  its  part  in  assisting  the  Afghan  people  in  that 
endeavour.
is  key 
Disarmament 
to  eliminating  potential 
sources of tension and conflict. Last year’s signing of 
the Arms Trade Treaty was an important step towards 
establishing  common  legal  standards  for  regulating 
and  monitoring  international  trade  in  conventional 
weapons. The Slovak Republic was among the first 50 
countries to ratify the Treaty, and we are hopeful that 
its  implementation  will  contribute  to  eliminating  the 
dangers  of  the  illegal  arms  trade  and  thus  strengthen 
global security.
Last  but  not  least,  peace,  security  and  stability 
are  preconditions  for  development.  The  rule  of  law, 
14-54841
5/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
democratic governance and human rights are essential 
for every single citizen. But we must address, respond 
to  and  solve  the  global  issues  that  may  be  as  deadly 
for  humankind  as  a  nuclear  war  —  the  changes  that 
are occurring on our planet. Globalization has created 
borderless opportunities for entrepreneurship, but it has 
also created new challenges that we must deal with if we 
are to make life on Earth sustainable — climate change, 
inequalities  in  development  and  in  the  distribution  of 
goods  and  services,  poverty  and  unequal  access  to 
health and education.
Slovakia is and will remain a responsible member of 
the global community. We participate in the discussion 
on financing sustainable development, offering our own 
experience  of  economic  transition.  Global  challenges 
require  global  action  and  national  responsibility.  We 
are ready to do our share.
The peoples of the world have vested in the United 
Nations  an  exclusive  and  global  responsibility:  to 
respond  to  violations  of  peace,  ensusre  respect  for 
international  law,  protect  human  rights  and  deal  with 
threats to humanity. Let us all make sure that it is able 
to  continue  to  carry  out  those  responsibilities.  For 
decades, the Organization has been the forum where we 
can name those responsible for the murder of their own 
citizens on a massive scale, the leaders who worship a 
cult  of  hatred  and  intolerance,  and  those  who  favour 
arms over agreements and international law. But in the 
cases where we have failed, our failure has caused the 
suffering and death of innocent people.
We,  the  United  Nations,  should  not  give  up  on 
the  ideal  of  being  the  conscience  of  the  world.  Our 
Organization  should  be  the  authority  with  the  ability 
to  define,  prevent  and  solve  conflicts  and  problems. 
Together  we  must  convince  people  around  the  world 
that  we  are  safeguarding  the  international  norms  and 
principles that the United Nations is built on. If we fail 
to  accomplish  that  within  the  United  Nations  itself, 
we  will  not  be  able  to  guarantee  to  humankind  that 
totalitarianism, injustice, impunity and amorality will 
not prevail.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Slovak Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President 
of the Republic of Ghana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of 
the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Mahama:  Change  has  become  an 
overriding theme in the language of today`s social and 
political  landscape.  We  speak  of  the  need  to  change 
behaviours,  attitudes  and  laws.  We  speak  of  the  need 
to effect change in the areas of human rights and social 
justice,  in  education  and  health  administration.  We 
have  come  to  understand  the  concept  of  change  as  a 
constant in our lives as human beings and as citizens 
of this world. But the question we are asking is, does 
change automatically signify progress?
There is an old saying with which I am sure everyone 
here is familiar: the more things change, the more they 
stay the same. Sometimes, when I find myself listening 
to reports of the many recent developments taking place 
in the world, that saying comes to mind again, and I am 
overcome with a strong sense of déjà vu, as though we 
had been here before.
When  I  hear  reports  about  the  taking  of  hostages 
and  the  savagery  of  beheadings,  it  is  2004  all  over 
again, and week after week there is news of the killing 
of foreign hostages in Iraq. When I hear reports about 
Israel  and  Gaza,  it  is  2005  all  over  again,  and  Israel 
has  launched  Operation  Summer  Rain,  immediately 
followed  by  Operation  Autumn  Clouds.  The  resulting 
death toll in the Gaza Strip was in the hundreds, and 
many of the dead were children. Similarly, in the United 
States, reports of police brutality against an unarmed 
black  man  take  me  back  to  1999,  when  23-year-old 
Guinea-born Amadou Diallo was shot 19 times by four 
New York City police officers, or to 1991, when Rodney 
King  was  brutally  beaten  by  five  Los  Angeles  police 
officers. Both of those incidents caused a tremendous 
public  outcry,  as  did  this  year’s  shooting  death  of 
18-year-old  Michael  Brown  in  Ferguson,  Missouri, 
with the singular message of “no justice, no peace”.
6/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Do  such  events  indicate  an  outright  regression? 
Does  the  uncomfortable  familiarity  of  some  current 
world  events  mean  that,  despite  the  changes  so  many 
individuals and organizations have worked to achieve, 
we  have  made  little  or  no  progress?  I  would  like  to 
believe that this is not so. I would like to believe those 
events  of  recent  times  are  merely  setbacks  that  will 
motivate  us  to  find  more  sustainable  solutions;  they 
are just slight reversals on the sinuous path toward true 
progress.
Dag  Hammarskjöld,  who  served  as  the  second 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  from  1953 
until his untimely death in a plane crash in 1961, said,
“The  pursuit  of  peace  and  progress  cannot 
end in a few years in either victory or defeat. The 
pursuit of peace and progress, with its trials and its 
errors, its successes and its setbacks, can never be 
relaxed and never abandoned.”
In  the  course  of  the  past  several  months,  since 
the  beginning  of  the  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa, 
I  have  been  reminded  of  both  the  importance  and 
the  practicality  of  those  words.  True  progress  relies 
on  neither  victory  nor  defeat;  true  progress  relies  on 
persistence, on perseverance. Just last week, on Monday, 
in my capacity as the Chair of Economic Community of 
West African States (ECOWAS), I travelled to Liberia, 
Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea  —  the  three  countries  that 
have been most affected by the outbreak of Ebola. They 
are nations that are recovering from conflict. The civil 
wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone also adversely affected 
Guinea,  which  shares  borders  with  both  countries. 
They are nations that were struggling to rebuild their 
social  and  economic  infrastructure.  Even  before  the 
outbreak  of  Ebola,  they  were  already  operating  with 
limited resources, an insufficient number of treatment 
facilities and a shortage of qualified medical personnel.
So far, there have been 5,843 recorded cases of Ebola, 
including 2,803 deaths. The World Health Organization 
predicts that if the disease is not brought under control, 
the number of cases could easily rise to 20,000 by as 
early as November. What makes Ebola so dangerous is 
that the virus dares us to compromise the impulses that 
exist at the very core of our humanity — our impulse 
to comfort one another with love, to care for each other 
with  the  healing  power  of  touch  and  to  maintain  the 
dignity of our loved ones even in death, with a public 
funeral and a properly marked grave.
Ebola  is  a  disease  of  isolation.  It  leaves  family 
members  afraid  to  embrace  one  another.  It  leaves 
health-care  workers  afraid  to  attend  to  their  patients. 
It  forces  the  living  to  abandon  the  cultural  rites  of 
washing, embalming and burying their dead. Instead, 
the dead are zipped into a secure body bag, carried on 
a stretcher by makeshift pallbearers in protective wear, 
and then tossed into a freshly dug grave.
Just as individuals with Ebola are often shunned and 
ostracized by their communities, the initial slowness of 
response by the international community in many ways 
has left the affected countries to suffer their fate alone 
and in isolation. In my travels to those three countries, 
although I was aware that some airlines had suspended 
flights, I was shocked to find the airports completely 
vacant. Ebola is not just a Liberian problem, nor is it a 
Sierra Leonean or Guinean problem; it is not just a West 
African problem. Ebola is a problem that belongs to the 
world because it is a disease that knows no boundaries.
We cannot afford to let fear keep us away or to let 
it  compromise  the  very  impulses  that  not  only  define 
but sustain our humanity. We must erase the stigma. To 
that end, my country, Ghana, has offered the use of its 
capital city, Accra, as a base of operations for activities 
geared towards the containment of the disease. I would 
like to commend Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and 
the Security Council for establishing the United Nations 
Mission for Ebola Emergency Response. I would also 
like  to  acknowledge  and  commend  President  Barack 
Obama and the people of the United States of America 
for  their  enormous  commitment  to  the  fight  against 
Ebola.
Health  officials  have  announced  numerous  times 
that  in  theory,  it  is  relatively  easy  to  stop  the  spread 
of  Ebola  because  it  is  transmitted  through  contact 
with bodily fluids. It has been suggested that through 
changes in our behaviour and practices the public could 
potentially  reduce,  if  not  eliminate,  their  exposure 
to  the  virus.  Yet  in  reality,  the  Ebola  virus  was  able 
to  spread  so  quickly  throughout  the  West  African 
subregion because of the fluidity of our borders.
The free movement of people, goods and services 
throughout  the  West  African  subregion  is  something 
that ECOWAS has been promoting for the last several 
decades.  It  allows  interaction  and  increased  trade 
between our 15 member States. However, without the 
proper preventive measures in place, such fluidity can 
also enable the free movement of disease, drugs, arms, 
human traffickers and terrorists.
14-54841
7/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
Unfortunately.  Africa  is  especially  vulnerable  to 
terrorism because its sheer size and vast terrain offers 
myriad  places  for  terrorists  to  hide  and  create  safe 
havens.  With  over  60  per  cent  of  Africa’s  population 
under the age of 35 and a significant number living in 
extreme poverty, terrorists also have the opportunity to 
recruit new members by exploiting the ignorance and 
disillusionment  of  young  people  who  lack  the  skills, 
education and opportunity to find gainful employment.
The  proliferation  of  technology  has  made  even 
the  most  remote  areas  of  the  continent  accessible 
through  a  phone  call  or  keystroke.  What  that  does  is 
facilitate  communication  within  terrorist  cells  and 
between  terrorist  organizations.  It  would  now  be  far 
too  simplistic,  not  to  mention  myopic,  for  a  nation 
to  believe  that  it  is  dealing  with  any  one  terrorist 
organization, such as Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab. Ansar 
Al-Dine, Al-Qaida, Hizbullah, the Taliban, the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant or, recently, the Khorasan 
group. Because of the assistance and cooperation that 
exist among them, they have in fact become different 
tentacles  of  a  single  organism.  So  too  must  we  come 
together  as  one  cohesive  body,  united  in  our  battle 
to  defend  our  freedoms  and  values.  We  too  must 
communicate  within  and  among  ourselves.  We  must 
cooperate  and  lend  assistance  and  resources  to  fight 
and conquer the common threat we face.
Since  the  start  of  the  global  recession,  economic 
growth rates have generally declined and people have, 
by  and  large,  become  pessimistic  about  their  future. 
This  month,  the  Pew  Research  Center  published  the 
results of a 44-country survey conducted in the spring of 
2014 to assess public views of major economic changes 
in the world. According to the results, a global median 
of 69 per cent are not pleased with the way things are 
going in their countries. That includes both advanced 
and  developing  economies.  The  concerns  expressed 
cut across a wide spectrum of issues, such as inflation, 
unemployment, income inequality and public debt.
My  country,  Ghana,  is  no  exception.  Over  the 
past  year,  the  public  has  seen  an  increase  in  the  cost 
of  living.  Falling  commodity  prices  led  not  only  to  a 
fall  in  tax  revenues  from  companies  that  operate  in 
Ghana,  but  they  also  led  to  a  massive  decline  in  our 
export earnings. That contributed to a general sense of 
macroeconomic  instability  and  placed  a  great  deal  of 
pressure on our domestic currency, the cedi.
For  the  past  22  years,  Ghanaians  have  witnessed 
a  steady  improvement  in  the  circumstances  of  our 
nation.  With  the  return  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law,  six  successful  elections  and  peaceful  transitions 
of power, Ghana became an example for other African 
nations turning towards democracy and constitutional 
rule.  The  stability  inspired  investor  confidence  and 
increased growth. Soon Ghana was deemed one of the 
fastest-growing economies in the world.
That  did  not  make  us  immune  to  the  economic 
challenges  that  many  nations  were  facing  across  the 
globe  —  quite  the  opposite.  Instability  in  the  global 
commodity markets has a direct bearing on our budgets 
and  hence  on  our  ability  to  finance  our  development. 
The  global  downturn  exposed  the  weaknesses  in  our 
foundation.  It  alerted  us  to  the  need  for  change,  the 
need  to  establish  the  proper  institutions  for  effective 
economic  management,  institutions  that  will  foster 
resilience and an ability to better absorb the blows of 
unexpected occurrences or outcomes.
The anxieties and concerns of the Ghanaian public 
are  understandable.  Like  so  many  African  countries, 
Ghana has been through dark economic times, and our 
seemingly changing fortunes, with their uncomfortable 
familiarity,  brought  on  a  fear  of  regression.  But  this 
was merely a setback, only a slight reversal. Already, 
the  home-grown  measures  of  fiscal  stabilization  that 
we  have  taken  are  yielding  results.  Only  this  month, 
Ghana surprised its most ardent critics when it launched 
its  third  Eurobond  for  an  amount  of  $1  billion.  That 
successful  flotation  represents  a  return  of  investor 
confidence in the prospects of the Ghanaian economy. 
That  confidence  is  apparent  in  the  recent  rebound  of 
our domestic currency, the cedi, which in the last two 
weeks  has  appreciated  significantly  against  its  major 
trading currencies.
Last  year  when  I  addressed  the  Assembly  (see 
A/68/PV.12),  I  explained  that  it  is  not  sympathy  we 
want  in  Africa;  it  is  partnership,  the  ability  to  stand 
on  our  own  feet.  In  an  attempt  to  establish  such  a 
partnership, we have entered into discussions with the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  an  organization 
that  is  no  stranger  to  the  process  of  self-assessment 
and  the  implementation  of  change  in  the  pursuit  of 
true  progress.  Indeed,  both  Ghana  and  the  IMF  have 
evolved, and the partnership has the potential to bring 
about the sort of transformation that will move Ghana 
from the ranks of the low middle-income countries into 
a fully fledged middle-income country.
The  coming  year  will  mark 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  Fourth  World  Conference  on 
the 
8/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Women,  which  was  held  in  Beijing  in  1995.  I  would 
like to note with pride that it will also mark the fortieth 
anniversary  of  Ghana’s  establishment  of  the  National 
Council on Women and Development, which has since 
been  renamed  the  Department  of  Gender.  Ghana  has 
a long-held commitment to the betterment of women’s 
lives, and my Administration has made it a priority to 
carry on with that tradition. In fact, much, if not all, of 
what we are doing falls directly in line with the areas 
of  concern  enumerated  in  the  Beijing  Platform  for 
Action  of  the  World  Conference.  My  Administration 
boasts one of the highest number of women appointed 
to public office in the history of Ghana. Seven of our 
Cabinet  ministers  are  women,  as  are  the  holders  of 
several senior public service posts, and I hope that the 
fact that they are too numerous to list is an indication 
that we are reaching towards the ideal.
We  have  submitted  to  Parliament  an  intestate 
succession  bill,  which  ensures  that  if  a  spouse  dies 
without having written a will, the surviving spouse will 
not be dispossessed of their marital assets. We have also 
submitted to Parliament a bill on the property rights of 
spouses, which ensures that spouses are entitled to a fair 
portion  of  property  acquired  during  the  union.  There 
area  also  several  other  pieces  of  legislation  designed 
to  offer  protection  for  and  empowerment  of  women, 
such  as  the  Domestic  Violence  Act,  the  Anti-Human-
Trafficking Act, an affirmative action bill and a gender 
policy.
I spoke earlier of isolation. Very few nations have 
experienced the sort of exclusion that Cuba has suffered 
for  the  last  several  decades  as  a  result  of  the  United 
States  embargo  on  that  country.  Ghana  reaffirms  its 
position that this embargo should be lifted. Ghana also 
calls for a halt to the establishment of settlements in the 
Palestinian territories. We have consistently expressed 
our  support  for  a  two-State  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  question,  with  the  two  nations  coexisting 
peacefully.
This  year  the  world’s  attention  has  been  drawn 
to  the  urgency  of  addressing  the  growing  problem  of 
inequality and the threats that it poses to our unrelenting 
pursuit  of  peace.  I  would  also  like  to  draw  attention 
to  the  pervasive  presence  of  religious  intolerance.  At 
the root of all of the world’s major religions is the call 
for compassion, forgiveness, tolerance, peace and love. 
Nevertheless, the use of religious dogma and extremism 
as a weapon of violence persists.
In  this  age  of  terrorism  and  political  turmoil,  of 
national, regional and ethnic conflict, it may be tempting 
to use the actions of a few to justify prejudice toward 
many. It may be tempting to combine the faithful with 
the fanatical. But those of us who envision a just and 
peaceful  world  cannot,  and  should  not,  yield  to  those 
temptations. Time and time again, history has shown us 
that the changing of a world begins with the power that 
rests in the hands of the people, ordinary individuals. 
Or,  in  the  words  of  one  of  the  greatest  teachers  and 
leaders of non-violence, Mahatma Gandhi, “You must 
be the change you wish to see in the world’’.
Today  our  Jewish  brothers  and  sisters  are 
celebrating Rosh Hashanah, their New Year. To them, 
I say, “L’shana Tova.” Next week, our Muslim brothers 
and sisters will be celebrating Eid al-Adha, the Festival 
of the Sacrifice. To them, I say, “Eid Mubarak.” And, 
to  you,  Mr.  President,  I  say,  “Many  thanks  for  the 
opportunity and for your kind attention”.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Ghana 
for the statement he has just made.
His  Excellency,  Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Rouhani  (spoke 
in  Farsi;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the 
outset, Mr. President, I would like to extend my sincere 
congratulations  on  your  well-deserved  election  as 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session.  I  also  express  my  appreciation  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  all  his  efforts.  It  is 
my genuine hope that this year’s session of the General 
Assembly  brings  the  world,  in  its  current  critical 
14-54841
9/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
situation,  a  step  closer  to  security  and  tranquility  for 
human beings, which is of course a fundamental goal 
of the United Nations.
I am from a region of the world whose many parts 
are  currently  burning  in  the  fire  of  extremism  and 
radicalism. To the east and to the west of my country, 
extremists threaten our neighbours, resort to violence 
and shed blood. They do not speak a single language; 
they are not of a single skin colour and not of a single 
nationality — they have come to the Middle East from 
around  the  world.  They  do,  however,  have  a  single 
ideology:  violence  and  extremism.  They  also  have  a 
single goal: the destruction of civilization, thus giving 
rise to Islamophobia and creating a fertile ground for 
further intervention of foreign forces in our region.
I  deeply  regret  to  say  that  terrorism  has  become 
globalized  from  New  York  to  Mosul,  from  Damascus 
to Baghdad, from the easternmost to the westernmost 
parts  of  the  world,  and  from  Al-Qaida  to  Daesh.  The 
extremists of the world have found each other and have 
put out the call: “Extremists of the world, unite”. But 
are we united against the extremists?
Extremism is not a regional issue with which only 
the  nations  of  our  region  have  to  grapple.  Extremism 
is a global issue. Certain States have helped to create 
it  and  now  fail  to  withstand  it.  Our  peoples  are 
currently  paying  the  price.  Today’s  anti-Westernism 
is  the  offspring  of  yesterday’s  colonialism.  Today’s 
anti-Westernism  is  a  reaction  to  yesterday’s  racism. 
Certain  intelligence  agencies  have  put  blades  in  the 
hand of madmen, who now spare no one. All those that 
have  played  a  role  in  founding  and  supporting  those 
terror groups must acknowledge their errors that have 
led to extremism. They need to apologize not only to 
the past generations but also to the next.
To  fight  the  underlying  causes  of  terrorism,  one 
must identify its roots and dry up its sources. Terrorism 
germinates in poverty, unemployment, discrimination, 
humiliation and injustice, and it grows in the culture of 
violence. To uproot extremism, we must spread justice 
and development and not allow the distortion of divine 
teachings  to  justify  brutality  and  cruelty.  The  pain  is 
exacerbated  when  such  terrorists  spill  blood  in  the 
name of religion and behead in the name of Islam. They 
seek to keep hidden the incontrovertible truth of history 
that, on the basis of the teachings of all divine prophets, 
from  Abraham  to  Moses,  from  Jesus  to  Muhammad, 
taking the life of a human being is akin to killing all 
humankind.
I  am  astonished  that  those  murderous  groups  call 
themselves  Islamic.  What  is  more  astonishing  is  that 
the  Western  media,  in  line  with  them,  repeat  that 
false claim, which provokes the hatred of all Muslims. 
Muslim people, who daily recall their God as merciful 
and  compassionate  and  have  learned  the  lessons  of 
kindness and empathy from their Prophet’s teachings, 
see such defamation as part of an Islamophobic scheme.
The  strategic  blunders  of  the  West  in  the  Middle 
East,  Central  Asia  and  the  Caucuses  have  turned 
those  parts  of  the  world  into  a  haven  for  terrorists 
and  extremists.  The  military  aggression  against 
Afghanistan  and  Iraq  and  inappropriate  interference 
in  the  developments  in  Syria  are  clear  examples  of 
that  erroneous  strategic  approach  in  the  Middle  East. 
As  part  of  a  non-peaceful  approach,  aggression  and 
occupation target the lives and livelihoods of ordinary 
people.  They  result  in  various  adverse  psychological 
and behavioral consequences that are today manifested 
in the form of violence and murder in the Middle East 
and  North  Africa,  even  attracting  some  citizens  from 
other parts of the world.
Today,  violence  is  being  spread  to  other  parts  of 
the  world  like  a  contagious  disease.  We  have  always 
believed  that  democracy  cannot  be  transplanted  from 
abroad.  Democracy  is  the  product  of  growth  and 
development, not war and aggression. Democracy is not 
an export product that can be commercially imported 
from  the  West  to  the  East.  In  an  underdeveloped 
society, imported democracy leads only to a weak and 
vulnerable Government.
When  commanding  generals  set  foot  in  a  region, 
do not expect diplomats to greet them warmly. When 
war  begins,  diplomacy  tends  to  end.  When  sanctions 
set in, deep hatred for those imposing them also begins. 
When  the  atmosphere  of  the  Middle  East  becomes 
securitized,  there  will  be  a  similar  response.  The 
interests of Western countries in our region are tied to 
their recognition of beliefs and the desire of the people 
for democratic governance in the region.
The  establishment  of  Al-Qaida,  the  Taliban  and 
modern  extremist  groups  has  demonstrated  that  one 
cannot  use  extremist  groups  to  counter  an  opposing 
State  and  remain  impervious  to  the  consequences  of 
rising  extremism.  The  repetition  of  such  mistakes, 
despite the many costly experiences, is perplexing. Let 
us  recall  that  Iran  had  invited  everyone  to  dialogue 
before the criminal act of 11 September. We also called 
10/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
for a world against violence and extremism before the 
outbreak of the current violent atrocities.
In  the  past  year,  perhaps  few  people  could  have 
forecast the fire that rages today, but now uninhibited 
violence and extremism present an imminent threat to 
the  world.  It  is  self-evident  that  without  an  accurate 
understanding  of  the  causes  of  the  current  situation, 
we will not be able to find the right solutions. Today, 
I shall again warn against the spread of extremism and 
the  danger  posed  by  the  inadequate  understanding  of 
and incorrect approach to that phenomenon.
The  Middle  East  longs  for  development  and  is 
weary  of  war.  It  is  the  natural  right  of  the  peoples  of 
the fertile lands of the Middle East to live in peace and 
prosperity.  In  the  past,  colonialism  denied  them  that 
right. Today, the shadow of war and violence threatens 
their security.
There  are  moderate  politicians  and  elites  in  our 
region who enjoy the confidence of their peoples. They 
are neither anti- nor pro-Western. Aware of the role of 
colonialism in the backwardness of their nations, they 
do not neglect the role of their nations in reaching the 
development  that  they  seek.  They  do  not  absolve  the 
West of its misdeeds, but they are also aware of their 
own  failings.  Those  leaders  can  assume  positions  of 
active  leadership  by  attracting  the  confidence  of  the 
people in their societies and can establish the strongest 
national and international coalitions against violence.
The  voices  of  such  leaders  are  the  true  voices  of 
moderation  in  the  Islamic  world.  They  represent  the 
familiar voice of an Afghan weary of war, of an Iraqi 
victim of extremism, of a Syrian fearful of terrorism and 
of a Lebanese worried about violence and sectarianism. 
I believe that if countries that claim to lead the coalition 
do  so  to  continue  their  hegemony  in  the  region,  they 
are  making  a  strategic  mistake.  Obviously,  since  the 
pain  is  better  known  by  the  countries  of  the  region, 
those countries can better form a coalition and agree to 
shoulder the responsibility of leadership in countering 
violence  and  terrorism.  If  other  nations  wish  to  take 
action against terrorism, they must come to their support. 
I warn that if we do not muster all our strengths against 
extremism  and  violence,  and  if  we  fail  to  entrust  the 
task to those in the region who can succeed, tomorrow 
the world will not be safe for anyone.
Last  year  I  tried  to  fulfil  my  country’s  role  in 
the  realization  of  peace  at  both  the  regional  and 
international levels by putting forward a proposal about 
a world against violence and extremism, which met with 
general support. In the tumultuous and chaotic region 
of  the  Middle  East,  Iran  is  one  of  the  most  tranquil, 
secure and stable nations. All the nations of the region 
have  to  keep  in  mind  that  we  are  in  the  same  boat. 
Thus, we need broad cooperation with regard to social 
and  political  issues,  as  well  as  security  and  defence 
issues,  with  a  view  to  reaching  common  and  durable 
understandings.  Had  we  had  greater  cooperation  and 
coordination in the Middle East, thousands of innocent 
Palestinians in Gaza would not have fallen victim to the 
aggressions of the Zionist regime.
We  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  consider 
interaction  and  confidence-building  among  the  States 
of  the  region  as  fundamentally  essential  for  conflict 
resolution.  We  support  any  measure 
to  promote 
cooperation among Islamic nations to combat extremism 
and threats and aggression, and in that connection we 
are  prepared  to  play  our  permanent  constructive  and 
positive role.
in 
independent  nation 
The  oppressive  sanctions  against  Iran  go  on,  in 
continuation of a strategic mistake against a moderate 
and 
the  current  sensitive 
conditions in our region. During the past year, we have 
engaged  in  the  most  transparent  possible  dialogue  to 
build  confidence  regarding  Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear 
programme. We placed serious and honest negotiations 
on the agenda, not as a result of sanctions or threats but 
rather because of the will of our people. We are of the 
view that the nuclear issue can be resolved only through 
negotiation, and those who may think of other solutions 
would  be  commiting  a  grave  mistake.  Any  delay  in 
reaching  final  agreement  only  raises  the  costs  —  not 
only  for  us  but  also  for  the  economies  and  trade  of 
the  other  parties,  as  well  as  for  the  development  and 
security prospects of our region. No one should doubt 
that  compromise  and  agreement  on  that  issue  are  in 
everyone’s best interest, especially that of the nations 
of the region.
The nuclear negotiations between Iran and the 5+1 
Group have continued during the past year and the past 
few  months,  with  seriousness  and  optimism  on  both 
sides.  According  to  all  international  observers,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran has carried out its commitments 
in good faith. Although some of the observations and 
actions of our counterparts have created certain doubts 
regarding their determination and realism, we hope that 
the  current  negotiations  will  lead  to  a  final  accord  in 
the short time that remains.
14-54841
11/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
We  are  committed  to  continuing  our  peaceful 
nuclear  programme,  including  enrichment,  and  to 
enjoy our full nuclear rights on Iranian soil within the 
framework of international law. We are determined to 
continue negotiations with our interlocutors in earnest 
good  faith  and  on  an  equal  footing,  based  on  mutual 
respect and confidence and on recognized international 
norms  and  principles,  removing  concerns  of  both 
sides.  I  believe  that  mutual  adherence  to  the  strict 
implementation  of  commitments  and  obligations  and 
avoidance of excessive demands in the negotiations by 
our  counterparts  are  the  prerequisites  for  the  success 
of  the  negotiations.  A  final  accord  regarding  Iran’s 
peaceful nuclear programme can serve as the beginning 
of  multilateral  collaboration  aimed  at  promoting 
security,  peace  and  development  in  our  region  and 
beyond.
The  people  of  Iran,  who  have  been  subjected  to 
pressures  especially  during  the  past  three  years  as  a 
result of continued sanctions, cannot trust any security 
cooperation  between  their  Government  and  those 
who  have  imposed  sanctions  and  created  obstacles  to 
their ability to satisfy even their primary needs, such 
as  food  and  medicine.  Sanctions  only  create  further 
impediments  to  long-term  cooperation  in  the  future. 
The  people  of  Iran  are  devoted  to  certain  principles 
and  values,  at  the  apex  of  which  are  independence, 
development  and  national  pride.  If  that  obvious  fact 
about  the  nation  is  not  understood  by  our  negotiating 
partners and they commit grievous miscalculations in 
the process, a historic and exceptional opportunity will 
be lost.
As the Assembly knows, during the ongoing nuclear 
negotiations  this  year,  the  Iranian  Government  took 
some  initiatives  that  created  favourable  conditions, 
which  resulted  in  the  new  phase,  the  Geneva  Joint 
Plan  of  Action.  We  are  determined  to  continue  our 
confidence-building  approach  and  transparency  in 
that process. If our interlocutors are equally motivated 
and  flexible,  and  if  we  can  overcome  the  problems 
and  reach  long-standing  agreement  within  the  time 
remaining, then an entirely different environment will 
emerge for cooperation at the regional and international 
levels. That would allow for greater focus on some very 
important  regional  issues  such  as  combating  violence 
and extremism in the region.
Mrs.  Al-Mughairy  (Oman),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Arriving  at  a 
final,  comprehensive  nuclear 
agreement with Iran will be an historic opportunity for 
the West to show that it does not oppose the advancement 
and  development  of  others  and  does  not  discriminate 
when  it  comes  to  adhering  to  international  rules  and 
regulations.  Such  an  agreement  could  bear  a  global 
message of peace and security, indicating that the only 
way to attain conflict resolution is through negotiation 
and respect, not through conflict and sanctions.
Last  year, 
the  great  nation  of  Iran  broadly 
participated  in  the  calm  and  impressive  presidential 
election and endorsed the discourse of foresight, hope 
and prudent moderation. Thereafter, they support their 
elected Government in its effort in building the country. 
While  some  of  Iran’s  neighbours  have  fallen  prey  to 
war and turmoil, Iran remains secure, stable and calm.
My  Government’s  principled  policy  is  to  work 
towards  constructive  interactions  with  our  neighbors 
on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect  and  with  emphasis  on 
common interests. The notion that Iran seeks to control 
other Muslim countries in the region is a myth fanned 
in recent years in the context of an Iranophobic project. 
Those who make such claims need imaginary enemies 
to  sustain  tensions  and  sow  division  and  conflict, 
thereby  pushing  for  the  redeployment  of  national 
resources away from development. We work to put an 
end  to  delusional  Iranophobia,  setting  the  stage  for 
building strategic partnerships with our neighbours.
Last year I warned against the expansion of violence 
and  extremism.  This  year  too  I  warn  that  if  the  right 
approach is not taken in dealing with the issue at hand, 
we will get closer to having a turbulent and tumultuous 
region  with  repercussions  for  the  whole  world.  The 
right  solution  to  that  quandary  comes  from  within 
the region, not from outside, and must be a regionally 
provided solution with international support.
In the Holy Koran, God the Almighty has promised 
those who have believed and done righteous deeds that 
He will surely grant them succession to authority upon 
the Earth and that their fears will turn into peace and 
security. It is my sincerest hope that our generation will 
endeavour to leave a more secure and developed Earth 
as its legacy for the next generation. I wish all present 
much success and many blessings.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran for the statement he has just made.
12/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mohamed Moncef Marzouki, 
President of the Republic of Tunisia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Tunisia.
Mr. Mohamed Moncef Marzouki, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United Nations His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Moncef 
Marzouki, President of the Republic of Tunisia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Marzouki  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to extend my warm congratulations 
to  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa,  representative  of  the 
friendly  nation  of  Uganda,  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my  thanks  and 
appreciation to Mr. John Ashe and his team, as well as 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
In  this  world,  where  a  surfeit  of  bad  news 
overshadows  the  good  work  of  creativity,  reform 
and  recovery,  we  continue  our  peaceful  transition  to 
democracy. We have managed to eliminate a dictatorial 
regime at the least possible human cost. We have begun 
a  difficult  transitional  stage  with  a  comprehensive 
national  dialogue,  and  we  have  written  a  consensual 
constitution  and  built  democratic  State  institutions. 
We  are  now  preparing  for  legislative  and  presidential 
elections to be held before the end of the year in order 
to transform Tunisia into a stable, democratic, forward-
looking State. Internal and external forces continue to 
undermine our democratic, peaceful transition through 
terrorist acts and political assassinations. However, our 
people  are  resolved  to  pursue  their  efforts  to  achieve 
success, despite the aggression of diabolical forces.
Tunisia  today  is  a  test  for  a  peaceful  democratic 
transition in an Arab country that lived for too long under 
despotism. We are attempting to reconcile democracy 
and political Islam. We are pursuing an ongoing national 
dialogue. We are distributing authority between secular 
modernists and Islamists. We are using moderation to 
grapple  with  the  counter-revolution  and  to  eliminate 
the residues of despotism through a just transition. We 
are also testing new socioeconomic approaches. We are 
promoting comprehensive development initiatives that 
will combat poverty and that will be in harmony with 
the environment. We have a broader social vision in line 
with the policies and vision of the United Nations with 
regard  to  addressing  global  warming,  climate  change 
and the post-2015 sustainable development agenda, as 
well as the Secretary-General’s Global Education First 
Initiative. We are also committed to our own policies 
that aim to achieve world peace, especially within the 
Arab  world  to  which  we  belong,  and  on  the  African 
continent, where we seek to definitively overcome the 
past and look to the future.
Tunisia’s  development  process  is  unfolding  in  the 
heart of a region that is currently witnessing political 
upheavals  that,  in  some  cases,  have  had  painful 
consequences  for  us  too.  Transnational  radical  armed 
groups have since the beginning of the revolution  been 
targeting us and have killed many of our soldiers and 
security  personnel,  hindering  our  security  apparatus 
in  an  attempt  to  abort  the  drive  for  democracy  and 
to impose alternatives rejected by the majority of our 
people.
The volatile situation in Libya is cause for concern 
because  the  stability  of  that  sister  neighbouring 
country  affects  our  own  stability.  We  hope  that  the 
Libyans  will,  through  national    dialogue,  achieve  an 
advanced,  democratic  stable  State  without  outside 
military  intervention,  which  would  only  add  insult 
to  injury.  We  encourage  the  wise  men  of  Libya,  both 
within  and  outside  that  country,  to  preserve  broad 
national consensus and the security, unity, stability and 
prosperity of their country through a peaceful, political 
solution.  We  hope  from  the  bottom  of  our  hearts  that 
our brothers will manage to achieve that.
We  are  concerned  by  the  spread  of  violence 
on  the  eastern  front  of  the  Arab  world,  which  has 
reached  unprecedented  levels  of  brutality,  including 
decapitation,  the  chopping  off  of  hands  and  the 
execution  of  prisoners.  We  are  appalled  by  such 
violence  and  attacks  on  our  Christian  brothers  and 
other  religious  minorities,  who  form  an  integral  part 
of  our  Arab  and  Islamic  heritage  and  culture.  We  are 
ashamed  of  such  practices  in  the  name  of  our  Allah, 
who  defines  himself  as  the  compassionate  and  the 
merciful.  According  to  the  Koran,  whoever  kills  an 
innocent soul kills all humankind, and whoever gives a 
new life to such a person saves all humankind. That has 
14-54841
13/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
happened all too frequently of late. Nothing can justify 
the indiscriminate violence at such unprecedented and 
horrific levels. We condemn the execution of prisoners, 
be they Arab, Muslim, French, American or British. We 
are all human beings and belong to one human family. 
We seek to understand this phenomenon so as to be able 
to address its root causes.
The  violence  and  counter-violence  we  are 
witnessing  today  are  the  cumulative  result  of  five 
decades of misguided policies of despotism that denied 
people  their  rights  and  basic  freedoms,  distributed 
wealth to some and consigned others to poverty. Such 
policies,  which  have  exploited  religion  in  the  service 
of politics, are like magic that has now turned against 
the  magician.  They  run  counter  to  Arab  and  Islamic 
civilization. The problem cannot be solved by entrusting 
it to the police and army. The situation demands bold 
policies that take into account all those levels and that 
establishes  regimes  that  are  in  harmony  with  their 
people.  All  political  prisoners  should  be  released  and 
there should be an ongoing national dialogue with the 
participation  of  all  moderate  political  sectors  that  are 
committed to peace. The economy needs to serve the 
interests of the majority, with an emphasis on advanced 
education under the banner of freedom and respect for 
the values of the Arab and Muslim countries. Only such 
policies  will  lead  to  united,  peace-abiding  societies. 
Our  people  yearn  to  improve  their  standard  of  living 
and to broaden the vistas for future generations.
For  many  decades,  some  of  the  major  Powers 
supported  despotic  regimes  in  our  country  on  the 
pretext  of  maintaining  stability.  If  the  same  problems 
are not to be repeated, they must help to achieve internal 
reconciliation. Resorting to military solutions may lead 
to  meaningless  wars  that  could  endanger  the  whole 
world.  We  therefore  strongly  call  for  the  blockade  of 
Gaza to be lifted in order to enable it to build a port and 
airport, and not just to open the border crossings but also 
to fulfil the political right of the Palestinian people to a 
geographically  contiguous,  secure,  independent  State, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital. The Gazans who are 
living without shelter are pleading to our consciences 
for  the  reconstruction  of  Gaza  and  return  children  to 
their  destroyed  schools’  classrooms  and  playgrounds. 
We  pray  to  God  to  end  the  nightmare  engulfing  the 
people of Syria through the banishment of its dictator 
and the formation of a Government of national unity.
Tunisia,  as  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
understands how important it is that the Organization 
be  capable  of  dealing  with  such  huge  global  changes. 
We support the granting of permanent membership in 
the  Security  Council  to  Brazil,  Germany,  Japan  and 
India, to be followed by permanent-member status for 
an African country, to enable it to deal with the world 
of today, which is no longer that which existed at the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  That  war  ended  with 
the  defeat  of  fascism,  dictatorship  and  Nazism  and, 
eventually, Communist totalitarianism. While so much 
of today’s world has been democratizing so rapidly, it 
is now threatened with climate, economic and political 
problems.  To  deal  with  them,  every  country  must 
preserve its gains and create the machinery needed for 
prevention, protection and commitment.
It is good that we have the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  punishing  despots  who  abuse  their 
peoples’ rights; we should also have a tool that prevents 
them  from  surviving  and  staying  in  power.  Tunisia 
has  therefore  proposed  establishing  an  international 
constitutional  court  that  could  advise  all  liberated 
peoples  and  hand  down  decisions  on  illegitimate, 
bogus  elections  that  lead  to  Government  by  force, 
which clearly runs contrary to international legitimacy 
and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This 
idea  has  been  well  received  in  academic  circles  and 
international  symposiums.  We  reiterate  our  call  for 
support  for  such  democratic  institutions  so  that  this 
proposal can be presented to the Legal Committee.
We hope that an international court such as this can 
be realized and could enable us to deter despots, support 
freedom  and  democracy  and  eradicate  the  sources 
of  violence  and  conflicts  among  peoples.  I  hope  that 
establishing such a court will not require the decades 
that it took to bring about the birth of the ICC, and we 
hope  that  Tunis,  our  capital,  can  have  the  honour  of 
hosting one of the United Nations institutions that have 
so far been the preserve of the advanced countries of 
the northern hemisphere. It is high time to give some 
thought to allowing the liberated cities of the South to 
host such institutions.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Tunisia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mohamed Moncef Marzouki, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
14/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
First, on behalf of the Government of Colombia, I would 
like to congratulate Mr. Kutesa for his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  express 
Colombia’s support for his work in promoting a post-
2015 development agenda that responds to humankind’s 
current  challenges.  The  sustainable  development 
goals  recently  adopted  after  an  open,  transparent  and 
inclusive negotiation process should be at the centre of 
that agenda.
In  a  world  full  of  bad  news,  war,  terrorism  and 
disease,  I  would  like  to  bring  a  ray  of  hope  to  the 
Assembly:  that,  after  more  than  half  a  century  of 
conflict, Colombia will soon enjoy peace. If we achieve 
this  goal,  which  Colombians  have  unsuccessfully 
sought for so long, there is hope for peace anywhere in 
the world, despite how difficult things may seem right 
now. Today, I can say to the international community 
that  we  are  closer  than  ever  before  to  achieving  that 
peace.  The  process  that  has  been  taking  place  in 
Havana over the past two years with the guerrilla group 
known  as  the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de 
Colombia (FARC) has been serious, realistic, credible 
and effective and has produced concrete results.
We  agreed  on  an  agenda  with  five  substantive 
points,  of  which  we  have  achieved  agreements  on 
three:  comprehensive  rural  development,  political 
participation  and  the  illicit  drug  problem.  In  the  first 
of  those  areas,  we  have  agreed  to  unprecedented 
investment  in  agricultural  development,  working  to 
give  farmers  access  to  land  and  to  generate  a  better 
standard  of  living  for  farming  families.  Regarding 
political participation, what we are striving for is very 
simple.  We  want  to  broaden  our  democracy  in  order 
to  build  peace  and  promote  citizen  participation,  and 
to  forever  sever  the  link  between  politics  and  arms. 
Regarding  the  illicit  drug  problem,  we  have  agreed 
to  continue  dismantling  the  drug  mafia  structures, 
promote  a  national  crop  substitution  and  alternative 
development  programme  and  address  the  issue  of 
consumption  from  a  public  health  perspective.  The 
agreement  also  includes  a  commitment  on  the  part 
of  FARC  to  contributing  effectively  to  a  definitive 
solution to the illicit drug problem and to ending any 
relationship it may have had with it.
A  Colombia  without  coca  and  without  conflict 
was  an  impossible  dream  just  a  few  years  or  decades 
ago.  Today,  I  can  affirm  that  it  is  a  real  possibility. 
We  have  already  begun  discussions  on  the  last  two 
substantive points of the plan: the victims and the end 
of the conflict. This war has left in its wake millions of 
victims who never had a voice before and who are now 
at  the  centre  of  the  process.  We  are  working  to  fulfil 
the  rights  of  victims  to  justice,  truth,  reparations  and 
non-recurrence.  Above  all,  we  are  working  to  ensure 
that there are no more victims.
In an act that I believe to be without precedent in 
the history of the world, representatives of the victims 
are explaining their situations, exposing their pain and 
setting  out  their  expectations  before  the  Government 
and  guerrillas.  The  victims  are  the  main  protagonists 
and  the  main  beneficiaries  of  the  peace  that  we  seek. 
Constanza  Turbay,  who  represents  the  courage  of  our 
women  and  who  lost  most  of  her  family  at  the  hands 
of  the  guerrillas,  had  the  opportunity  to  confront  her 
victimizers, look them in the eye and to directly hear 
their expressions of sincere remorse. In her own words, 
Ms.  Turbay  stated  that  the  victims  are  “replacing 
their  pain  with  the  hope  of  peace”.  Another  woman, 
Ms.  Juanita  Barragan,  who  spent  several  years  of  her 
youth within the ranks of the FARC, was able to tell her 
former  leaders  in  Havana:  “Please  do  not  enlist  more 
children to fight your war”. Today, Ms. Barragan wants 
to be a lawyer and to work for children. There are so 
many cases and so many voices that are finally being 
heard.
We  have  also  created  a  subcommittee 
that 
includes  active  military  and  police  personnel.  This 
subcommittee  is  beginning  to  consider  the  details  of 
a  definitive  bilateral  ceasefire  process,  as  well  as  the 
demobilization  and  disarmament  of  guerrillas  upon 
signature  of  the  final  agreement.  I  can  therefore  now 
report to the international community that Colombia has 
made substantial progress in its effort to end the armed 
14-54841
15/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
conflict that has affected us to such a great extent, and, 
inevitably, impacted the region and the world.
When the post-conflict phase begins, we will face 
immense  challenges  in  reintegrating  those  who  have 
demobilized,  ensuring  a  State  presence  in  conflict-
affected  areas,  and  guaranteeing  civic  security. 
The  support  and  contributions  of  the  international 
community  are  key  in  that  regard,  and  we  call  for 
that  support.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
our  gratitude  to  the  many  nations  and  multilateral 
agencies — especially the United Nations — for their 
commitment to the peace process and their willingness 
to provide all manner of support, not only now but also 
in the future as we implement those agreements in the 
post-conflict stage.
In  my  inaugural  speech  upon  taking  office  for  a 
second  term  as  President  of  Colombia  on  7  August, 
I  stated  the  following,  and  repeat  it  today  before  the 
world’s nations. While conflicts rage around the world, 
Colombia aspires to bring the good news for humankind 
that the final armed conflict in the western hemisphere 
is coming to an end. If we are successful, as we truly 
expect to be, we will be ready to share our experience 
with  other  countries.  We  are  sure  that  our  case  can 
become a model and a beacon of hope for the world’s 
other conflicts.
In Colombia, we seek peace because the suffering 
of  our  fellow  citizens  pains  us.  We  do  not  want  any 
more  victims,  or  women  or  children  involved  in  war. 
We  therefore  understand  the  pain  of  and  express  our 
solidarity with the many nations that today are suffering 
from war and unutterable atrocities, due — it must be 
said — to the impotence of the international community 
We  are  not  oblivious  to  the  suffering  of  those  who 
live  in  such  countries  such  as  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya  and 
Ukraine  and  in  regions  like  the  Sahel.  We  condemn 
the ruthless terrorism of the Islamic State in Iraq and 
the Sham. We are not indifferent to the suffering of the 
many families in Palestine and Israel who are victims 
of  armed  confrontations,  or  to  the  loss  of  life  due  to 
epidemics, such as Ebola in Africa.
As  we  approach  the  Organization’s  seventieth 
anniversary, we find ourselves at a defining moment in 
the consolidation of the international system embodied 
by  the  United  Nations.  Full  respect  for  international 
law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  is  essential  to  attaining  lasting  solutions  to 
overcome conflict and achieve progress in fulfilling the 
legitimate aspirations of the people. In confrontations, 
we  must  restore 
that  are 
fundamental  to  the  human  condition,  and  children, 
women and civilians must be spared such tragedies.
the  ethical  principles 
Colombia  favours  negotiated  political  solutions. 
Today, we must ask questions that are not only rhetorical 
but also true. Why are there people who stand against 
peace?  Why  do  some  see  war  as  the  only  way  out? 
Perhaps they do so because without war they would lose 
their power, accustomed as they are to making a living 
and profiting from it, and unable as they are to imagine 
life  without  it.  We  have  to  convince  the  promoters  of 
war  that  this  is  not  the  way,  and  convert  them  into 
promoters of peace. We are doing just that in Colombia, 
and we must do the same in every corner of the planet. 
The United Nations was established precisely to prevent 
conflict and to seek peace.
Undoubtedly,  the  drug  trade  and  drug  trafficking 
are fuelling the conflicts in Colombia and elsewhere in 
the world. Colombia has promoted a serious, technical 
and  objective  discussion  of  the  methods  and  results 
of  the  so-called  war  on  drugs.  This  war  has  not  been 
won, but we have had some success at the hemispheric 
level.  Last  week,  at  the  Special  General  Assembly  of 
the Organization of American States in Guatemala, we 
achieved  hemispheric  consensus  on  several  positions 
and adopted a resolution that shows that we can move 
forward together on this issue. Those results will help 
us to be more prepared to be able to achieve progress 
at the United Nations special session on drugs that has 
been called for 2016.
Last month, in the inaugural speech of my second 
mandate, I set out for Colombians the vision that will 
guide our actions. I want to make Colombia a country 
of peace, a country with equality, and the most educated 
country in Latin America by 2025. At the same time, 
this vision also draws us towards the future sustainable 
development goals for the post-2015 period — ambitious 
goals  that  address  humankind’s  most  pressing  social, 
economic and environmental problems.
in 
the  social 
The  good  economic  climate  that  Colombia  is 
experiencing,  progress 
indicators, 
particularly poverty reduction and job creation, and the 
peace process itself allow us to believe in the possibility 
of  achieving  this  vision.  It  is  this  Colombia,  the  one 
that is overcoming poverty, has regained control of its 
territory,  is  growing  at  the  world’s  highest  levels  and 
16/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
has successful social equality policies in order to find 
more fairness, which is also searching for peace.
of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
I envisage the same things for Latin America and 
the  Caribbean  as  I  envisage  for  my  country  —  that 
we can be a region at peace, with greater equality and 
better  education;  a  region  that  makes  the  transition 
from  resource-based  economies  to  knowledge-based 
economies;  a  region  in  which  entrepreneurship  and 
innovation are the engines of development; a region with 
socially  and  environmentally  responsible  companies 
that transform our future.
As I said in the Assembly in 2010 (see A/65/PV.15), 
this  should  be  the  decade  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  And  now,  before  the  world’s  nations, 
I  reiterate  the  call  on  my  region,  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean, to remain true to that intention. To the 
international community, I make an impassioned appeal 
for us to put everything we can — everything — into 
ensuring that the sense of humanity overcomes war. We 
are losing our way when we look at the tragedies that 
humankind is suffering without being pained by them, 
without the world waking up and taking decisive action 
to address them. We cannot allow ourselves to lose the 
capacity to be shocked by war. It is time to wake up. It 
is time to act.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Colombia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hery Martial Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana, President of the Republic 
of Madagascar
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar.
Hery  Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina 
Mr. 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hery  Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina  Rakotoarimanana,  President 
President Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana 
(spoke in French): Like my predecessors, I would like 
first of all, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of 
Madagascar and on my own behalf, to congratulate His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa  on  his  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session. He is a credit to his country, the Republic of 
Uganda, and the pride of the entire African continent.
Allow  me  next  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his commitment to peace and development 
in  the  world  and  for  his  actions  at  the  head  of  the 
Organization. I also take this opportunity to solemnly 
reiterate  to  him  and  his  team  the  gratitude  of  the 
Malagasy people for the special attention and resources 
that the United Nations system has mobilized in order 
to  contribute  to  the  culmination  of  the  process  that 
brought the crisis in Madagascar to an end. We are also 
grateful for the important role that the United Nations 
continues to play in working together with Madagascar 
and its people. I naturally extend that gratitude to the 
entire  international  community,  whose  support  has 
been decisive in the peaceful resolution of the Malagasy 
crisis.
By  choosing  to  return  to  constitutional  order 
through the ballot box, the Malagasy people confirmed 
its commitment to stability and security. In so doing, it is 
participating in building peace and security in the region 
and thus throughout the world. Strengthened by those 
values  ,  we  have  made  national  reconciliation,  which 
is  the  foundation  of  social  cohesion,  the  cornerstone 
of  our  development  policy.  We  are  convinced  that 
without social peace, there can be no development and 
vice  versa.  We  have  already  taken  important  steps  in 
that  process  and  we  intend  to  move  forward.  But  our 
resources  are  not  yet  commensurate  with  the  scale  of 
the tasks that remain. That is why Madagascar wishes 
to  gain  access  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  which  is 
being made available through the Organization.
Five  per  cent  of  the  world’s  biodiversity  is  found 
in  Madagascar.  It  behoves  us,  therefore,  to  take 
responsibility for preserving that resource and ensure 
better management for future generations. Upon taking 
office  in  January  2014,  I  declared  war  on  traffickers 
in  rosewood  and  all  those  who  engage  in  the  illegal 
trade in protected species. The establishment of good 
forest  governance  was  the  first  act  in  a  whole  series 
14-54841
17/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
of concrete measures to that end. An interdepartmental 
committee for restructuring the sector was established. 
The authorities are working hard to achieve the policy 
of zero tolerance against trafficking of all kinds related 
to  natural  resources  and  protected  species.  However, 
despite  our  efforts,  we  must  note  that  traffickers  still 
manage to evade surveillance measures, due to the lack 
of  resources  at  our  disposal  to  deal  with  traffickers, 
who have ample resources.
Madagascar’s  strategic  location  in  the  Indian 
Ocean,  at  the  crossroads  of  various  maritime  routes 
that are vital to global trade, means that we must work 
to preserve our fishing areas and our marine reserves. 
The risk of piracy, terrorism and trafficking of all kinds 
is high. Measures must be taken in that regard, within 
the framework of an active international cooperation to 
protect the area.
The Malagasy Government has also increased the 
extent of protected areas to cover more than 10 per cent 
of the country, or at least 6 million hectares, with the 
cooperation of its partners. A large-scale reforestation 
project aimed at sustaining the long-term production of 
timber  and  firewood  is  included  in  the  Government’s 
agenda 
terms  of  commitments.  We  are  also 
strengthening  our  legal  arsenal  by  ratifying  several 
multilateral  environmental  agreements,  including  the 
Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and the Minamata Convention on Mercury.
in 
After  over  five  years  of  political  crisis,  including 
sanctions  and  suspension  measures  of  all  kinds,  it  is 
clear that the majority of the Millennium Development 
Goals will not be met in Madagascar by 2015. However, 
the country is committed to focusing its development 
efforts  on  its  population  and  has  initiated  major 
projects in some key sectors such as education, health, 
employment,  security,  access  to  new  information  and 
communication technologies and infrastructure. Thus, 
school  enrolment  for  girls  has  far  exceeded  that  for 
boys. Similarly, nearly 500,000 children and youth have 
been  enrolled  in  educational  and  socio-professional 
institutions  for  the  year  2014-2015.  Over  100  basic 
health  centres  have  been  opened  in  recent  months 
across the country. In the framework of our fight against 
malaria,  Madagascar’s  efforts  have  been  recognized 
at  the  continental  level,  including  our  achievement  of 
95 per cent of households owning at least one mosquito 
net  impregnated  with  long-lasting  insecticide  and  our 
intra-residential spraying campaign, which are the most 
important tools for the prevention of malaria. Moreover, 
Madagascar  has  demonstrated  its  solidarity  with  the 
world’s fight against Ebola.
In  terms  of  security,  tangible  results  have  been 
achieved in recent months with Operation First Strike, 
which  is  aimed  at  eradicating  the  massive  theft  of 
zebus  in  the  south  and  west  of  the  country.  Finally, 
Madagascar’s  renewed  adherence 
the  African 
Growth and Opportunity Act should give new impetus 
to  the  country’s  economic  and  social  fabric  with  the 
massive job creation.
to 
When  it  comes  to  climate  change,  the  stakes  are 
high  for  Madagascar,  since  our  economy  is  based  on 
developing sectors that are sensitive to climate change. 
The numbers are telling in that regard  — 75 per cent 
of  Madagascar’s  population  lives  in  rural  areas,  of 
which 4 million are in vulnerable areas, and 28 per cent 
of  the  rural  population  are  food-insecure.  Although 
we  do  not  have  the  means  to  adequately  mitigate  the 
negative  effects  of  climate  change  on  the  country’s 
socio-economic activities, we have nevertheless taken 
action. Measures range from the development of legal 
frameworks  such  as  the  national  policy  for  the  fight 
against  climate  change,  the  national  strategy  for  a 
clean development mechanism and the establishment of 
an energy transition policy that is based on the use of 
renewable energy. We are also implementing a national 
action  plan  for  adaptation  and  have  created  various 
structures  to  coordinate  activities  related  to  climate 
change.
We  fully  support  the  theme  of  this  session, 
“Delivering on and implementing a transformative post-
2015 development agenda”. Our country is committed 
to creating the conditions to establish a prosperous and 
modern nation. That is the whole purpose of the actions 
we  have  undertaken  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of 
transparency, good governance, respect for the rights of 
others, democracy and human rights. With this vision 
of a modern and prosperous nation, our main objective 
is to allow the people to emerge from their precarious 
situation.  To  do  so,  we  have  decided  on  a  policy  of 
improving  production  to  increase  productivity  and 
developing a reliable agricultural sector. That will help 
the country to achieve food self-sufficiency and allow 
Madagascar to become the backbone of food security in 
the Indian Ocean.
We  have  also  decided  to  undertake  major  public 
infrastructure  works,  including  structural  work,  the 
construction  of  highways  and  roads,  works  of  art, 
18/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
building  construction  and  embellishment,  dams, 
water  purification  and  improvements  to  the  energy 
sector. In that regard, we are developing an innovative 
partnership  for  finance  structuring  and  partnerships. 
In addition to conventional financing from traditional 
donors,  we  have  used  a  public-private  partnership 
system. It is aimed at establishing a mutually beneficial 
partnership for Malagasy and investors alike. Particular 
attention is being paid to promoting youth employment, 
and companies that fulfil the required conditions will 
benefit from strong incentives and tax benefits.
in  particular 
Another priority area is tourism. Tourist facilities 
are still limited in number and need to be developed. 
Madagascar  today  is  the  ideal  destination  for  such 
investment, 
in  growth  sectors.  We 
must  meet  the  challenges  of  growth  and  ensure  that 
Government  actions  have  a  positive  and  tangible 
impact on the lives of the 22 million Malagasy through 
inclusive  and  sustainable  development.  Madagascar 
has adopted a transformative agenda for its future. The 
drafting of the national development plan reflects the 
determination  of  the  State  to  establish  the  principles 
of good governance and economic recovery. The Plan 
is to be a central frame of reference for private-sector 
engagement  with  civil  society,  decentralized  local 
authorities  and  technical  and  financial  partners.  The 
implementation  of  the  national  development  plan  will 
promote and ensure the security of domestic and foreign 
investment and the updating of regulatory frameworks 
relating thereto.
I 
Before  concluding, 
reiterate  my  country’s 
determination to renew and strengthen its commitments 
to  the  various  activities  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
addition  to  our  effective  participation  in  the  regular 
work  of  the  committees  and  in  various  conferences 
held under the auspices of the Organization. We point 
out the deployment every year of contingents from our 
national gendarmerie, national police and the Malagasy 
penitentiary  administration  within  various  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  Africa.  Most 
recently, the Government of Madagascar has responded 
positively to the United Nations request for 140 officers 
in formed police units to serve in the Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African 
Republic.
Ms.  Rambally  (Saint  Lucia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Madagascar also continues to advocate for equitable 
representation in the Security Council so that countries 
directly involved in crises and conflicts can fully take 
part in the process of the adoption of resolutions.
Madagascar aspires to move rapidly from its current 
status to that of a growing country with an expanding, 
vibrant middle class and that will see its income quickly 
rise to match those of emerging countries. I know that 
this  is  possible  and  achievable.  I  have  made  a  moral 
contract with the people of Madagascar to optimize our 
use of our natural and human resources to enable our 
country to achieve a solid place within the globalization 
network, to rebuild itself and to contribute in a positive 
way  to  the  resolution  of  the  major  problems  of  this 
world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Madagascar for the statement he has just made.
Hery  Martial 
Rajaonarimampiania 
Mr. 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ivo Josipović, President of the 
Republic of Croatia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia.
Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivo Josipović, President of 
the  Republic  of  Croatia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President Josipović: The topic of this general debate, 
“Delivering on and implementing a transformative post-
2015  development  agenda”,  most  fittingly  depicts  our 
common  priority  before  the  Organization’s  seventieth 
anniversary next autumn. We are about to set the stage 
for strategic decisions and concrete actions that should 
deliver comprehensive and transformational changes at 
the global and national levels.
Wars  and  armed  conflicts,  natural  diseases, 
pandemic  diseases,  lingering  poverty  and  many  other 
existing or potential threats to human lives and human 
rights keep on emerging. If we do not react adamantly 
and swiftly to tackle those perils early enough in their 
14-54841
19/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
emerging phases, we run the risk that they will increase 
exponentially and beyond our control. More than ever 
before, we must face the fact that security, development 
and  human  rights  are  interdependent  and  mutually 
reinforcing. They demand to be at the very heart of the 
post-2015 agenda.
At  this  time,  we  are  also  witnessing  a  type  of 
dangerous  discord  that  spreads  a  fear  of  the  worst 
possible outcome — the same kind of fear that preceded 
the birth of the Organization. The Charter of the United 
Nations  provides  us  with  so  much  wisdom;  its  words 
came  with  the  experience  of  the  scourge  of  war  and 
misery.  What  we  need  at  this  point  is  to  reinvigorate 
the  same  level  of  determination  we  had  almost  seven 
decades  ago  and  to  do  everything  we  can  to  avoid 
regression.
Croatia  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  situation 
in  Ukraine.  There  is  none  but  a  peaceful  solution 
to  the  conflict.  The  suffering  of  so  many  people  is 
unfortunately all too familiar. Croatia echoes the call 
to  stop  the  violence  and  to  reach  a  political  solution. 
Croatia strongly supports the principles of international 
law concerning the sovereignty and territorial integrity 
of Ukraine.
Similarly,  we  share  the  grave  concern  over  the 
terrorism  and  violence  spreading  around  the  world, 
most  notably  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  The 
sheer  magnitude  of  destruction,  the  loss  of  lives  and 
unspeakable  atrocities,  most  notably  those  committed 
by  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham,  can  be 
overshadowed  only  by  the  growing  threat  that  they 
will not stop soon or at any border, and that they will 
continue to grow and devour everything our civilization 
stands  for.  A  zero-tolerance  policy  towards  terrorism 
and a joint global effort are needed to prevent that from 
happening. Croatia supports all ongoing efforts to form 
a coalition against the so-called Islamic State. We stand 
ready to make a contribution to Iraqi and Iraqi Kurdish 
forces.
Also,  although  it  is  a  difficult  task,  achieving 
a  stable  and  sustainable  peace  agreement  between 
Israelis and Palestinians is an imperative. We hope that 
honest and serious efforts will be resumed to negotiate 
a comprehensive and sustainable peace agreement that 
will  establish  the  grounds  for  a  two-State  solution, 
living  in  peace  and  security,  mutually  recognizing 
and respecting each other, and gradually transforming 
the  entire  Middle  East  into  a  region  of  peace  and 
cooperation.
The  situation  in  the  world  brings  the  need  for 
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
to  the  centre  of  our  attention.  In  that  regard,  the 
2015  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  will 
be  of  particular  importance,  and  Croatia  hopes  that 
the  Treaty  will  be  reinforced  and  strengthened  as  an 
outcome  of  the  Conference.  Croatia  also  commends 
the  unprecedented  international  effort  aimed  at  the 
destruction  of  the  chemical  weapons  of  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic.  The  Organization  for  the  Prohibition 
of  Chemical  Weapons-United  Nations  Joint  Mission’s 
successful work demonstrates the indispensable role of 
the United Nations.
It  is  truly  unnerving  to  be  confronted  with  the 
problems  and  crises  that  I  have  mentioned,  while  our 
very best effort is needed to overcome obstacles such as 
climate change, natural disasters and the scarcity and 
degradation of resources, especially food and drinking 
water. The crises are interlinked. Therefore, we need an 
interlinked and integrated response to them. Again, no 
serious thought can be given to sustainable development 
without ensuring peace and security.
Some conflicts could have been foreseen, prevented 
and  even  averted  if  the  international  community  had 
acted in a timely and decisive way. While, indeed, the 
primary  responsibility  lies  with  the  sovereign  State 
itself, regional and global organizations have the tools, 
and therefore also the obligation, to assist those States. 
One  effective  method  in  that  regard  is  peacebuilding, 
where  we  help  post-conflict  societies  to  stand  on 
their own. There is a vast pool of global experience in 
peacebuilding that could be applied, including that of 
my own country. We therefore hope that the upcoming 
review of the United Nations peacebuilding architecture 
will consolidate the existing knowledge and experience 
and bring fresh ideas as to how to improve the overall 
peacebuilding process.
A special role in maintaining peace and advancing 
development  lies  with  women.  In  particular,  we  see 
the  role  of  women  in  achieving  successful  conflict 
resolution  and  the  sustainable  development  of  post-
conflict  societies.  We  strongly  advocate  women’s 
economic 
and 
development.  That  is  why  we  are  organizing  a  high-
level  meeting  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  on  the 
gender  dimension  of  sustainable  development  within 
the context of post-conflict recovery on 26 September.
for  peacebuilding 
empowerment 
20/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
This  week,  we 
started  discussing  climate 
change  —  the  pressing  issue  of  today.  Croatia  is  as 
vulnerable  as  any  other  country.  The  devastating  and 
unprecedented  floods  that  we  are  witnessing  now 
are  proof  of  that.  Yesterday,  we  all  renewed  our  vow 
to  boldly  and  ambitiously  tackle  that  global  issue, 
which  is  clearly  of  great  importance.  Croatia  hopes 
that  the  upcoming  Lima  and  Paris  conferences  will 
lead  us  to  a  global  agreement  in  key  areas,  including 
climate financing and the reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions. That remains one of the main pillars of the 
transformative post-2015 development agenda.
Bearing  in  mind  the  need  for  progress,  we  have 
committed ourselves to implementing the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  That  is  our  unfinished  business. 
The implementation and evaluation of the Millennium 
Development Goals have made us all conscious of the 
fact  that  such  a  vital  process  needs  to  be  continued. 
Croatia  is  pleased  that,  in  that  regard,  we  have  been 
building  the  truly  transformative  and  people-centred 
framework  of 
the  sustainable  development  goals 
(SDGs). Those goals represent the central investment in 
our common future. We must put the maximum effort 
into making the SDGs a reality and into supporting their 
continuous  implementation  at  all  levels.  Those  goals 
represent  an  opportunity  for  long-term  development 
that humankind cannot afford to miss. In that vein, we 
have supported the importance of good governance and 
the rule of law as the enablers and an inseparable part 
of sustainable development. Everyone has a role to play: 
national Governments, international organizations, the 
private  sector,  civil  society,  academia,  the  media  and 
the various other stakeholders.
A  key  principle  that  matters  to  my  country  is 
equality  among  all  human  beings,  regardless  of  their 
beliefs, race, gender, national origin, ethnicity, religion, 
disability,  sexual  orientation  or  other  status.  Croatia 
fully  supports  the  pivotal  role  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  human  rights  mechanisms,  in  particular  the 
Human Rights Council, on the two tracks, namely, to 
further develop and strengthen the protection of human 
rights  and  to  effectively  respond  in  a  timely  way  to 
the  challenges  of  the  gross  violation  and  systematic 
abuse  of  human  rights  worldwide.  We  firmly  believe 
that  sustainable  development  goes  hand  in  hand 
with  democracy,  which  should  be  approached  in  a 
holistic  manner.  That  said,  a  number  of  international 
mechanisms ensure stable democracies and sustainable 
development  by 
standards, 
insecurity and impunity. We therefore add our voice to 
eliminating  double 
the  calls  for  universal  adherence  to  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  universal  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.
As  I  have  already  mentioned,  we  have  recently 
witnessed all kinds of natural disasters. Such situations 
demand  swift  and  prompt  national  and  international 
actions, first and foremost, to mitigate the immediate 
threat, as the same time as taking care of victims and 
delivering humanitarian aid. The outbreak of epidemic 
diseases also has a similar effect. A recent example is 
the  Ebola  epidemic  in  some  West  African  nations.  It 
denotes a matter for solidarity and understanding and 
demands  the  world’s  immediate  and  comprehensive 
response to the multifaceted medical, social, economic 
and security crisis.
Croatia  will  continue  to  provide  assistance  to 
the  most  vulnerable  people,  especially  considering 
that  we  have  rich  expertise  in  the  area  of  capacity-
building  programmes  in  a  humanitarian  crisis,  in 
raising  awareness  of  the  dangers  of  landmines  and 
other  unexploded  ordnance  of  war  and  in  providing 
psychosocial support to victims of violence. In addition, 
let me point out that Croatia was dedicated and active 
in  delivering  humanitarian  aid  to  the  flooded  regions 
of its neighbouring countries of Serbia and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina this spring, while we ourselves also faced 
grave  floods  and  their  consequences  in  Croatia.  We 
all need more solidarity at the regional and the global 
levels.
One of the most important goals of my presidency 
has been and continues to be the promotion of dialogue 
and  cooperation  instead  of  conflict  as  a  means  of 
achieving security and stability for Croatia, as well as 
every other country in the world. I am proud to say that 
Croatia has come a long way in that respect.
With  the  World  Summit  in  2005,  we  started 
reforming  the  United  Nations  system.  Despite  all 
the  progress  made,  we  have  not  managed  to  achieve 
concrete  results  with  regard  to  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. Moreover, we would like to see the 
Council  more  engaged  in  preventing  crises  and  its 
ongoing  dedication  to  its  Charter  duties  rather  than 
to  any  particular  interest.  In  order  to  maintain  the 
Council’s  authority,  relevance  and  indispensability  in 
maintaining global peace and security, its reform needs 
to be comprehensive and without further delay.
On  numerous  occasions,  Croatia  has  stated  its 
position on Security Council reform. In our view, the 
14-54841
21/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
enlargement  should  happen  in  both  the  permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  categories  of  membership, 
including  one  additional  non-permanent  seat  for  the 
Eastern  European  States.  The  enlargement  is  closely 
linked  to  the  reform  of  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council,  including  the  question  of  the  use 
of the veto power. Croatia welcomes and supports the 
initiative to establish a code of conduct with regard to 
the suspension of the use of the veto in cases relating to 
a mass crime.
On  another  note,  we  strongly  believe  that  the 
consolidation  of  the  European  space  will  be  possible 
only  through  the  further  stabilization  and  security 
of  South-Eastern  Europe.  We  look  forward  to  the 
day  when  all  countries  of  the  region  will  finally  be 
admitted to the European Union. Croatia has been and 
will  continue  to  be  an  advocate  for  a  continuous  and 
strong  focus  on  South-Eastern  Europe.  The  countries 
of the region are finding an increasing number of ways 
to cooperate together and to lay the foundation for the 
joint  development  of  sustainable  peace  and  stability, 
be it with regard to the recent devastating floods or to 
dealing with a difficult past, while achieving truth and 
justice on the issues of missing persons or of setting the 
stage for major infrastructure and transport projects.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  address  an  issue  that 
I  personally  believe  can  be  one  of  the  best  remedies 
for  achieving  social  improvement,  economic  advance 
and,  consequently,  political  stability  —  education. 
That is why I strongly support the Secretary-General’s 
Global  Education  First  Initiative.  Knowledge  and 
education are major driving forces of societies and one 
of  the  most  important  preconditions  for  success  and 
sustainable development. Disparities in knowledge and 
its  distribution,  access  and  application  have  become 
major  factors  in  determining  the  overall  success  of  a 
nation  and  the  level  of  its  development.  It  is  the  best 
guarantee  that  the  world’s  development  and  stability 
will go hand in hand and that global peace and security 
with thus become stronger than ever.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Croatia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah 
Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di 
Pertuan of Negara Brunei Darussalam
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of 
Negara Brunei Darussalam.
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin 
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of Negara 
Brunei Darussalam, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Majesty  Sultan  Hassanal  Bolkiah 
Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan 
of  Negara  Brunei  Darussalam,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah: 
Allow  me  to  join  earlier  speakers  in  offering  my 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. My thanks also go to our outgoing President, 
Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  his  excellent  work  over  the  past 
year, especially his contribution to the discussions on 
the post-2015 development agenda. I offer my profound 
appreciation  to  the  many  United  Nations  officials, 
peacekeepers  and  volunteers  in  the  field  who  often 
work in the most difficult conditions and put their lives 
at risk.
It is also fitting to offer our thanks and gratitude 
to  the  Secretary-General  and  his  team  for  tirelessly 
promoting the cause of this world body, especially with 
respect to urgent matters affecting the livelihoods and 
security  of  our  peoples.  I  also  deeply  appreciate  his 
personal support at the fifth summit of the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  and  the  United 
Nations held in Brunei Darussalam last year.
Today is a special occasion for me personally and 
for Brunei Darussalam as a nation. It marks the thirtieth 
anniversary  of  our  membership  in  the  Organization. 
Looking back, the world then was ideologically divided. 
Now we are linked by globalization and interdependence, 
searching for a united approach to addressing the many 
challenges faced by the human race. As we confront old 
and new problems, I believe the United Nations is best 
placed to address them collectively. That is its strength, 
a fact that is evident today as we strive to realize the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
22/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
We are fast approaching the deadline of the MDGs, 
and  we  in  Brunei  Darussalam  are  pleased  to  see  that 
there  is  concerted  global  commitment  and  consensus 
with  respect  to  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and 
further promoting peace and sustainable development. 
Brunei  Damssalam  actively  contributes  to  regional 
and  international  efforts  in  the  areas  of  training  and 
capacity-building  through  the  Initiative  for  ASEAN 
Integration and through collaboration with the United 
States  in  an  English  enrichment  programme  for 
ASEAN. Similar undertakings have also been carried 
out  through  the  Commonwealth  Fund  for  Technical 
Cooperation.
The  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  relevant 
stakeholders  in  leading  the  way  forward  beyond  2015 
is indeed laudable. I am encouraged by the fact that we 
have accomplished a great deal in the current initiative. 
We have also learned many valuable lessons that will 
help carry us through our journey in the coming decades. 
It  is  reassuring  to  know  that  extensive  discussions 
and  wide-ranging  consultations  have  been  conducted 
to  shape  a  universal  framework  for  delivering  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda.  I  therefore  welcome  the  new  development 
agenda and its emphasis on the importance of a human 
development  process  that  is  inclusive,  people-centred 
and sustainable.
Those  elements  are  also 
integral 
to  Brunei 
Darussalam’s National Vision 2035, which is dedicated 
to  improving  the  welfare  of  our  people  and  ensuring 
a  high  quality  of  life.  I  am  also  pleased  that  there  is 
unanimous agreement on the importance of protecting 
the  environment.  In  that  regard,  I  greatly  value  the 
convening  of  the  United  Nations  climate  summit  to 
galvanize support for addressing the impact of climate 
change and in ensuring a dynamic and sustainable post-
2015 development agenda.
full 
realization  of  our  noble 
expressions for the near future and the decades to come 
faces  many  obstacles.  The  international  and  regional 
situation  continues  to  be  threatened  by  instability, 
injustices,  social  and  economic 
inequalities  and 
increasingly frequent occurrences of natural disasters. 
While there is relative peace and stability in the world, 
developments  over  the  past  year  have  reminded  us 
of  how  complex  security  issues  can  cause  turmoil 
and  instability  that  threaten  progress  in  long-term 
development. We are gravely concerned with security 
developments  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Further 
However, 
the 
escalation  of  conflicts  can  weaken  the  international 
community’s  resolve  and  ability  to  work  together  to 
achieve our worldwide initiatives.
For  its  part,  Brunei  Darussalam  has  participated 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  specifically  in  the 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  and  other 
international  peace  monitoring  missions,  such  as  our 
work in the southern Philippines. We remain committed 
to such endeavours.
The  overall  outlook  is  further  complicated  by 
challenges that are global in nature, ranging from the 
impact  of  climate  change,  extremism  and  terrorism 
to  the  serious  repercussions  of  pandemic  diseases. 
Brunei Darussalam stands united with the international 
community  in  combating  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and  in  rejecting  extremism.  We  support  all  regional 
and international efforts to counter terrorism, and we 
will continue to participate in global initiatives such as 
interfaith dialogues and dialogues among civilizations 
designed  to  promote  understanding,  tolerance  and 
respect among world communities.
I  call  on  every  nation  to  take  concerted  action  in 
working to ensure that the rapid pace of globalization 
and  interconnectedness  brings  wide-ranging  benefits 
to  all  our  peoples  and  communities.  In  securing  the 
positive  aspects  of  globalization,  as  a  community 
of  nations  we  must  work  closely  together.  We  must 
renew  our  approach  to  governance  and  strengthen 
our  cooperation,  especially  in  resolving  new  issues 
that  require  collective  global  action  and  unity  of 
purpose. I would like to emphasize the importance of 
a  comprehensive  approach,  especially  when  it  comes 
to  ensuring  peace  and  security.  Our  peoples’  quality 
of life can be further enhanced only through inclusive 
economic development and equitable social progress.
At  the  same  time,  all  our  efforts  to  develop  our 
economies  should  not  work  to  the  detriment  of  our 
natural  environment.  These  are  areas  that  demand 
renewed  commitment,  partnership  and  creativity  on 
the  part  of  our  global  community.  I  would  also  like 
to  underscore  the  importance  of  strengthening  our 
capabilities  in  disaster  management.  The  frequent 
recurrence and growing intensity of natural disasters in 
recent years have caused great destruction and hardship 
to  many  communities  around  the  world.  Last  year, 
Brunei  Darussalam  hosted  a  humanitarian  assistance 
and disaster relief exercise for military personnel from 
across  the  Asia-Pacific  region,  the  first  such  event  of 
its  kind  under  the  auspices  of  the  ASEAN  Defence 
14-54841
23/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
Ministers Meeting Plus process. During the exercise, I 
was very inspired as I witnessed the close cooperation 
and  unity  shown  by  the  diverse  range  of  participants 
from  different  nations,  cultures  and  backgrounds,  all 
striving together to practise saving lives.
Such regional efforts are just a modest step. More 
important, the fundamental principles of mutual respect 
and trust, putting aside differences, upholding the rule 
of  law  and  justice  and  promoting  cooperation  should 
serve  as  the  basis  for  resolving  conflicts,  so  that  we 
can all enjoy continued peace and stability. In the same 
spirit, I also hope that we can overcome our differences 
and move forward in further opening up global trade.
All  our  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs  will  be  in 
vain if, at the same time, we disregard our commitment 
to  pursuing  peaceful  means  of  settling  disputes,  as 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
escalation of disputes and threats to international peace 
and security has resulted in appalling human tragedies 
such as the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-
17 and the current dire situation in Gaza. Although the 
prospects of all-out war seem remote today, instances 
of worsening situations, skirmishes and brinkmanship 
have  shown  us  all  too  well  how  threats  of  conflict 
and  violence  remain  an  obstacle  to  our  long-term 
aspirations  for  a  better  world.  For  Palestine,  freedom 
and  justice  are  long  overdue.  The  cycle  of  suffering 
experienced by our Palestinian brothers and sisters is a 
stark example of how little our development goals mean 
if there is no peace or stability. The Palestinian people 
must be granted their basic right to live in dignity and 
enjoy  economic  development.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the observance of the current ceasefire by the parties 
involved,  and  I  greatly  appreciate  the  efforts  of  other 
countries that have made that possible.
Looking  to  the  future,  I  remain  hopeful.  I  still 
firmly  believe  that  we  need  this  Organization  in 
order  to  ensure  that  generations  to  come  will  enjoy  a 
secure and prosperous future. The world has changed 
fundamentally  since  the  adoption  of  the  MDGs,  and 
I  am  confident  that  the  United  Nations  will  continue 
to  be  a  source  of  hope.  It  is  important  that  all  States 
do everything they can to contribute positively to our 
Organization.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Sultan  and  Yang  Di 
Pertuan of Negara Brunei Darussalam for the statement 
he has just made.
His  Majesty  Hassanal  Bolkiah  Mu’izzaddin 
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of Negara 
Brunei Darussalam, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Robert Mugabe, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
implementing  a 
President  Mugabe:  Allow  me  to  congratulate 
Mr. Kutesa on assuming the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  are  indeed 
proud of the honour that has been bestowed upon the 
African continent as a result of his election. The theme 
he  has  chosen  for  this  session,  that  is,  “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”,  is  pertinent,  appropriate  and 
timely. It is relevant in our efforts to achieve a seamless 
transition from the Millennium Development Goals to 
the sustainable development goals and the broader post-
2015 development agenda. We look forward to having a 
candid and comprehensive debate on the challenges we 
continue to face at the domestic and international levels 
in our efforts to eradicate poverty.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
helped  to  focus  and  mobilize  global  development 
efforts in order to achieve progress in the social sectors. 
However,  despite  the  significant  achievements  within 
the  framework  of  the  MDGs,  progress  was  uneven 
between  goals,  among  regions  and  within  countries. 
Consequently, we cannot remain complacent when some 
sections of the global community are marginalized or 
even  left  behind.  We  are  therefore  gratified  that  the 
proposed  sustainable  development  goals  have  taken 
on  board  the  unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Part  of  that  unfinished  business 
concerns the critical issue of poverty eradication, which 
remains the greatest global challenge. That issue should 
24/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
therefore be the top priority and overarching objective 
of the development agenda for the future.
in 
We 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community share the view that the post-MDG agenda 
must be informed by national development priorities and 
that the new targets must better reflect local conditions. 
In  that  regard,  Zimbabwe  adopted  its  own  economic 
blueprint, the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio-
Economic Transformation. It is a bold and achievable 
development  programme  that  has  the  objective  of 
ensuring  inclusive  economic  growth,  decent  jobs 
for  all,  affordable  and  reliable  energy,  food  security, 
sustainable agriculture and the development of reliable 
modern  infrastructure.  Through  the  programme,  we 
also aim to expand the industrial base, which is key to 
the sustained overall economic development and human 
development  of  our  country.  We  continue  to  push  for 
the  leveraging  of  our  diverse  and  abundant  resources 
through beneficiation and value addition. We therefore 
expect that the proposals in the sustainable development 
goals, which complement those elements of our national 
aspirations,  will  be  endorsed  and  integrated  into  the 
post-2015 development agenda framework.
Social  justice,  political  stability  and  sustainable 
development in African countries can best be achieved 
through  genuine  and  committed  support  for 
the 
ownership of means of production that favour the poor, 
who are in the majority. In Zimbabwe, my Government 
has  gone  a  long  way  in  laying  the  foundation  for 
sustained  food  production  through  our  land  reform 
programme. The majority of the rural people have been 
empowered  to  contribute  to  household  and  national 
food security. The possession and exploitation of land 
has also turned them into masters of their own destiny, 
thus giving true meaning to our national independence 
and unquestioned sovereignty.
Because Zimbabwe has thus been preoccupied with 
the  empowerment  of  its  people  economically,  it  has 
become  a  victim  of  the  evil  machinations  of  Western 
countries, namely, the United States and States members 
of  the  European  Union,  which  continue  to  apply 
unilateral and illegal sanctions as a foreign-policy tool 
to achieve short-term political objectives, particularly 
regime  change.  Regime  change  is  a  diabolical  and 
illegal policy of interference in the domestic affairs of 
my country, and no good can come from undermining 
our economy or depriving our citizens of the necessities 
of  life.  Why,  I  ask,  should  Zimbabweans  continue  to 
suffer  under  the  American  and  European  yoke  of 
unjustified  and  unwarranted  illegal  sanctions?  Those 
evil sanctions violate the fundamental principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations and should be condemned 
by the international community. We once again call for 
their immediate and unconditional removal.
We are a peaceful and peace-loving nation, ready to 
engage in constructive dialogue for mutually beneficial 
relations.  We  call  on  those  who  continue  to  harbour 
ill will against us to cast away their hegemony-driven 
hostility,  as  we  appeal  to  them  to  review  their  hard-
line and cruel positions and open a new chapter in their 
relations with us based on mutual respect and friendly 
cooperation.
To  support  the  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda, we call for an expeditious reform 
of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  particularly  their 
governance structures. It is high time that we addressed 
the democratic deficit in those institutions and improved 
their  legitimacy.  Those  reforms  must  reflect  current 
realities and ensure the full voice and participation of 
developing countries in the decision-making and norm-
setting activities.
Zimbabwe firmly believes that the United Nations 
should promote dialogue to achieve peace, the rule of 
law  and  common  understanding  among  States.  The 
peace, security, stability and welfare of Africa and our 
subregion is vital for us. In Africa, the African Union is 
working tirelessly to push for peace in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, South Sudan, the Central African 
Republic  and  Somalia.  The  international  community 
must  remain  intensively  engaged  and  support  Africa 
in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  stability,  thereby 
enhancing  its  peacekeeping-capacity  needs  through 
training and logistical and financial support. Africa also 
remains seized of the issue of Western Sahara, the last 
colonial vestige in Africa. The United Nations should 
not shake off its responsibility to ensure the realization 
of self-determination by the people of Western Sahara.
We continue to witness the suffering and persecution 
of the people of Palestine at the hands of Israel. We have 
witnessed the callous murder of women and children in 
shelters,  where  they  seek  refuge  from  Israel’s  bombs. 
We have witnessed the brutal and random destruction 
of infrastructure in the Gaza Strip. While those heinous 
acts  were  being  perpetrated  by  Israel,  the  so-called 
civilized world maintained a deafening silence. And we 
ask, why?
14-54841
25/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
Lasting peace in the Middle East can be achieved 
only  through  a  two-State  solution  based  on  the  1967 
borders. Any other manoeuvres to change demographic 
realities  through  settlements  or  the  use  of  force  will 
only prolong the suffering of the Palestinians.
In conclusion, as we move forward, it is important 
to  muster  the  necessary  political  will  to  create  a 
development-oriented  international  environment  that 
facilitates  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  enhances 
the  sound  management  of  our  natural  resources  for 
economic and social development, under a renewed and 
real global partnership.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ollanta Humala Tasso, President of 
the Republic of Peru
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso, 
President of the Republic of Peru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Humala  Tasso  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
Government warmly welcomes the theme proposed for 
this debate regarding the post-2015 development agenda, 
since it directly addresses the most pressing problems 
facing  humanity,  namely,  inequality,  hunger,  poverty, 
injustice  and  underdevelopment,  factors  that  create 
situations  that  our  community  of  the  United  Nations 
cannot  and  should  not  tolerate.  We  must  address  our 
task decisively, and in doing so we must be guided by 
the principles set forth in our Charter, but above all, we 
must have the firm commitment of all members of the 
international community. Our peoples, who are calling 
for  the  implementation  of  a  truly  transformational 
global  development  agenda,  expect  nothing  else  from 
us.
In that regard, I wish to point out that, by virtue of 
the  universal,  comprehensive  and  ambitious  nature  of 
our goals, the consensus achieved so far in the effort to 
define  the  sustainable  development  goals  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda constitutes an essential point 
of departure for that purpose. In that regard, I think that 
the process in question deserves our strong support and 
must  be  allocated  the  requisite  resources  in  a  timely 
manner to ensure full implementation. Consistent with 
that  principle,  Peru  fully  supports  this  process  and  is 
confident that the adoption next year of the post-2015 
development agenda will lead to the establishment of a 
genuine global partnership for sustainable development. 
The  process  will  have  participatory  monitoring 
mechanisms so as to ensure appropriate follow-up and 
monitoring.
I  wish  to  highlight  that  a  clear-cut  convergence 
exists  between  the  guidelines  promoted  by  Peru 
through its public policies on social inclusion and the 
goals  agreed  upon  by  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable Development Goals. In both cases, priority 
is placed on initiatives to reduce poverty and inequality 
in all its forms, and to eradicate extreme poverty and 
hunger, once and for all. Similarly, emphasis is placed 
on  the  struggle  for  equality,  the  empowerment  of 
women, access to quality education and the elimination 
of  all  forms  of  gender-based  violence  and  violence 
against  children.  It  is  also  worth  highlighting  the 
importance of continuing sustainable economic growth 
and promoting formal and decent employment. Those 
issues, among others, are of vital importance to Peru.
To that end, we must reflect on what type of State 
we have today and move forward to meet the challenge. 
In the case of Peru, we are pleased to highlight that we 
have implemented a set of State reforms geared towards 
attaining those objectives. Peru has been working hard 
to  consolidate  and  build  upon  the  foundations  for 
sustainable development. Our nation is a clear example 
of how it is possible to achieve substantial progress in 
just a few years, without straying from the fundamental 
principles  of  the  Charter,  such  as  peace  and  security, 
human rights and development. In fact, Peru is one of 
the countries that has made the most sustained progress 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
some of which will have been attained even before the 
2015 deadline. Thus, thanks to economic growth and a 
coordinated and comprehensive social policy, we have 
achieved significant progress in fighting poverty, given 
that we had set ourselves the goal for 2016 — the end of 
26/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
my term in office — to reduce that figure to under one 
fifth of the population.
In just one generation, Peruvians have implemented 
a deep transformation based on the pacification of the 
country,  the  consolidation  of  democracy,  stability, 
the  opening  of  its  economy,  as  well  as  the  creation 
and  development  of  a  social  inclusion  policy.  That  is 
precisely why our aspirations, objectives and goals are 
increasingly ambitious.
With  that  perspective,  we  see  ourselves  as  an 
emerging country with strong institutions that is proud 
of its cultural diversity and of the skills of its people. 
We have made significant progress in the reduction of 
poverty  and  child  malnutrition.  Our  country  is  built 
on  an  inclusive  social  platform  that  promotes  equal 
opportunities, gender equality, justice and security.
My  Administration  is  undertaking  extraordinary 
efforts in that direction and has prioritized its action to 
focus  on  the  fields  of  health  care,  education,  security 
and  social  welfare.  On  previous  occasions,  I  have 
talked  about  the  body  of  first-  and  second-generation 
social  programmes  that  we  have  been  implementing, 
among which Qali Warma, which provides free meals 
in  public  schools,  Juntos,  a  conditional  cash-transfer 
programme,  Pension  65,  a  non-contributory  pension 
plan, and the Beca 18 scholarship programme are worth 
highlighting. All of those programmes are coordinated 
under  a  multisectoral  strategy  that  prioritizes  the 
human being and the family throughout their life cycle. 
That  strategy,  which  we  call  “include  to  grow”,  is 
intended not only to alleviate the immediate needs of 
the  poor  and  extremely  poor  people  but  also  to  build 
the capacities of individuals and to create opportunities 
for all.
The  Government  of  Peru  has  been  increasing 
its  budget  for  investment  in  social  policies  annually, 
reaching unprecedented figures. By way of example, I 
can point out that the budget for 2015 has increased by 
12 per cent over that of last year, and that approximately 
half  of  that  increase  has  been  allocated  to  education 
and  health  care.  The  remainder  is  primarily  for  the 
expansion  of  social  programmes,  the  development  of 
infrastructure  and  the  improvement  of  public  safety, 
since  public  safety  is  another  major  priority  of  my 
Administration.  Given  that  challenge,  we  constantly 
monitor  citizens’  demands  and  organize  State  action 
to  effectively  address  those  requests  robustly  and 
effectively in order to generate the climate of peace and 
trust much needed by our families.
Historically,  Peru  has  faced  another  impediment 
to  development:  corruption.  That  is  why  we  are 
taking  drastic  measures  against  those  people  who,  in 
shameful exercise of their duties and public functions, 
betray  citizens’  trust.  In  that  regard,  in  Peru,  we  are 
implementing  a  concept  of  education  and  public  and 
political  ethics  to  be  followed  not  only  by  those  who 
govern Peru but by all citizens, with a major emphasis 
on  those  who  implement  and  enforce  the  law.  We  are 
also  considering  barring  from  public  office  for  life 
those who commit acts of corruption while carrying out 
their public duty.
I  would  now  like  to  talk  about  another  major 
challenge  that  we  must  overcome,  namely,  the  world 
drug  problem.  I  would  appeal  to  the  international 
community  to  continue  to  strengthen  dialogue  and 
cooperation so as to counter that scourge. We therefore 
believe that the special session of the General Assembly 
will be an opportunity for the international community 
to jointly address that issue in a cooperative way. The 
scope of the threat is clearly global, and our response 
must  incorporate  that  dimension.  We  have  given 
priority  to  a  comprehensive  strategy  to  implement 
alternative development and to support social inclusion 
programmes. In that way, we are regaining not only the 
territory but also, most importantly, the people.
However,  in  order  to  ultimately  overcome  that 
relevant  actors  must 
challenge  successfully,  all 
participate actively. The joint and shared responsibility 
of  producers  and  users,  as  well  as  the  transit  and 
financing  countries,  must  facilitate  the  establishment 
of a comprehensive strategy, in which all those involved 
assume 
responsibilities  and  adopt  binding 
solutions.
their 
On  the  economic  front,  the  recent  adoption  of 
a  national  production  diversification  programme  to 
expand  our  production  base,  bring  about  a  historical 
change in the country’s economic structure and create 
formal employment seeks to leverage our capabilities and 
resources  by  promoting  sustainable  industrialization, 
entrepreneurship and access to science and technology. 
We  are  thereby  adding  value  to  our  production  and 
making our growth and development sustainable.
We  seek  to  continue  expanding  and  deepening 
our  trade  relations,  improve  the  existing  17  trade 
agreements  that  cover  approximately  95  per  cent  of 
our  foreign  trade,  while  also  moving  towards  the 
completion  of  the  Doha  Round  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization.  Peru’s  aspiration  to  a  more  integrated 
14-54841
27/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
world is widely recognized. We therefore give particular 
priority to any participatory forum, such as the Pacific 
Alliance, which is an initiative that promotes the free 
movement of persons, goods, services and capital and 
cooperation  among  its  members,  as  well  as  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation.  That  aspiration  also 
includes the right of all countries to achieve the highest 
level  of  social,  economic  and  trade  development. 
We  therefore  reiterate  once  again  the  call  to  end  the 
economic  blockade  against  Cuba,  which  affects  that 
country’s  economic  growth  and  delays  its  social  and 
human development and has an impact on the welfare 
of its citizens.
Peru’s 
relationships  with 
its  neighbours  are 
excellent.  I  wish  to  highlight  the  recent  settlement  of 
the maritime dispute with Chile, achieved on the basis 
of  international  law  and  the  principle  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  as  well  as  the  fact  that  the 
handing down of the ruling of the International Court 
of Justice was the fastest in its history. In general, the 
way in which the entire case was conducted makes Peru 
and Chile an example for the world.
in 
Peru  affirms 
its  active  participation 
the 
international community. In that context, we will be the 
host country for the twentieth United Nations Climate 
Change Conference in December. On that occasion, the 
discussions will be important but national commitments 
will be essential. Today, I say that we need to organize 
the  largest  alliance  in  history  to  address  that  critical 
challenge, in which the agreements reached will define 
the future of our civilization. As the host country, I urge 
the  heads  of  State  and  Government  to  maintain  their 
political will, so as to move forward constructively with 
representatives that have the capacity to take decisions. 
It  is  not  only  a  matter  of  capitalizing  on  the  Green 
Climate Fund but also one of clearly setting out national 
commitments and achieving a binding agreement.
We  must  be  conscious  that,  for  the  first  time, 
humankind  has  achieved 
the  capacity  for  mass 
destruction  without  resorting  to  nuclear  energy.  In 
that regard, it is vital that the international community 
become  aware  that  world  problems,  such  as  climate 
change, require global, rather than national, responses. 
According to a 2011 study by the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean, the cost of global 
warming to Peru is revealed in floods, droughts, thaws 
and warming waters and amounts to approximately 4 per 
cent of Peru’s annual gross domestic product (GDP). If 
we do not take immediate action, the economic impact 
of climate change could be over 5 per cent of GDP by 
2030 and 20 per cent by 2050. Peru also recently ratified 
the  Nagoya  Protocol  on  Access  to  Genetic  Resources 
and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising 
from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological 
Diversity, which will soon be in force to promote such 
genetic resources.
Today’s  general  debate  finds  us  in  a  complex 
scenario  with  various  severe  political,  humanitarian 
and  economic  crises.  We  are  faced  with  major  global 
economic  challenges  regarding  international  security 
and global governance. The Security Council’s ability 
to  respond  to  the  various  crises  around  the  world 
has  revealed  the  need  to  reform  its  work  methods, 
including  those  related  to  the  use  of  the  veto.  The 
Security Council needs to respond in an effective way 
to  those  situations,  which  requires  comprehensive 
reform, including increasing the number of permanent 
and non-permanent members, making that body more 
efficient, democratic, transparent and representative.
Specifically on the Palestine issue, my Government 
confirms  the  need  to  address  the  root  causes  of  that 
conflict  through  negotiations  to  achieve  a  viable  and 
lasting solution, overcoming the status quo and enabling 
Palestinians and Israelis to live in peace and to prosper 
in the two States with secure and recognized borders.
The  international  community  faces  various  ever-
growing  phenomena  that  transcend  borders.  I  am 
referring  to  terrorism,  transnational  organized  crime, 
the  global  drug  problem,  corruption,  trafficking  in 
persons, sexual exploitation, trafficking in young boys 
and  girls  and  in  adolescents,  and  arms  smuggling, 
among  others.  With  regard  to  acts  committed  by 
terrorist groups all over the world in recent months, my 
country knows the consequences of such acts very well, 
and they have been most energetically rejected by my 
Government.
terrorism 
Combating 
is  a  responsibility 
that 
the  international  community  must  assume  within 
the  framework  of  the  law,  with  full  respect  for  the 
fundamental rights of all peoples and the sovereignty 
of  States.  Regarding  the  condemnable  events  that 
have  occurred  in  several  regions  of  the  world,  the 
Government of Peru has expressed its strong rejection 
of  such  barbaric  and  terrorist  attacks  by  extremist 
groups  against  the  lives  of  innocent  civilian  hostages 
and religious and ethnic minorities. Those intolerable 
events  deserve  the  firmest  condemnation  by  the 
international community.
28/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Peru is not just a country with its own history; it 
is  also  a  civilization.  Its  culture  is  part  of  the  world 
heritage  of  humankind,  as  recognized  by  UNESCO. 
That  recognition  signifies  a  universal  recognition  of 
the  extraordinary  work  of  our  ancestors,  who  knew 
how to harmonize development and the environment in 
a sensible and creative way.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Peru’s 
commitment  to  the  development  and  implementation 
of  the  post-2015  agenda,  focusing  on  sustainable 
development  goals,  and  by  reiterating  my  call  to 
allocate the means required to make them a reality. In 
the context of the upcoming Conference of the Parties 
to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP-20) in 
Lima, I wish to reiterate my commitment and that of the 
Peruvian Government to the Conference objectives, and 
we call upon the international community to participate 
actively  with  a  constructive  spirit  for  sustainable 
development  in  the  interest  of  our  peoples.  Peru,  the 
cradle  of  the  Inca  civilization  and  the  international 
capital  of  excellent  gastronomy,  is  ready  to  welcome 
everyone.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Peru for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister 
of Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Abe  (Japan):  Humankind  faces  serious, 
unprecedented crises. Now is the time for us to stand 
united beneath the flag of the United Nations to confront 
those crises together. Japan is resolved to continue to 
take on great responsibility, working hand in hand with 
the international community.
The  Government  of  Japan  is  expending  its  best 
possible  efforts  in  the  fight  against  the  Ebola  virus. 
The  international  community  should  come  together 
to address that crisis, which directly affects the peace 
and  security  of  Africa.  In  that  regard,  Japan,  as  one 
of  its  sponsors,  has  strongly  supported  the  adoption 
of  Security  Council  resolution  2177  (2014).  Japan  has 
also  supported  the  initiative  of  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, and His Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba 
Kutesa, President of the General Assembly, to establish 
the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency 
Response.
At  the  fifth  Tokyo  International  Conference  on 
African  Development,  held  in  Japan  in  the  past  year, 
the Government of Japan announced that it would set 
aside  $500  million  to  address  health  issues  in  Africa 
and  launch  training  programmes  for  some  120,000 
health and medical-service providers. As a response to 
the Ebola outbreak, we have sent highly knowledgeable 
and  experienced  Japanese  experts,  as  members  of 
World  Health  Organization  missions.  We  have  also 
extended  a  total  of  $5  million  in  financial  assistance 
and will provide $500,000 worth of personal protective 
equipment 
for  health-care  workers.  Furthermore, 
we  pledge  to  extend  additional  assistance  totaling 
$40  million  in  future.  We  continue  to  be  prepared  to 
take  any  other  measures,  including  the  possibility  of 
sending more experts to Africa and sharing a potentially 
promising drug developed by Japan’s Toyama Chemical 
Company  and  Fujifilm  Holdings  Corporation,  which 
could be effective in the post-exposure phase of Ebola.
The Middle East is in a state of unrest. In particular, 
Japan regards the activities of the Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Levant — which extends across national borders 
and has unilaterally declared the establishment of a so-
called state — as a serious threat to international order. 
What  is  important  now  is  to  prevent  extremism  from 
taking  root,  while  responding  swiftly  to  the  region’s 
humanitarian crises. To assist in that, Japan will provide 
$50 million of emergency assistance right away.
Placing  great  importance  on  the  stability  of 
Ukraine, in March Japan swiftly announced economic 
assistance  of  up  to  $1.5  billion,  which  is  now  being 
implemented.  We  are  also  preparing  new  assistance 
towards reconstruction of the eastern part of Ukraine.
14-54841
29/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
Next year will be a momentous one for the United 
Nations.  We  will  celebrate  its  seventieth  anniversary. 
At  the  time  the  United  Nations  was  founded,  Japan 
was  recovering  from  having  been  reduced  to  ashes. 
Since then, Japan has never for a moment forgotten the 
horrors of war. It set out on its post-war path abhorring 
the atrocities of a war that brought tragedy to innocent 
people both at home and in other nations and renewing 
its pledge towards peace. We have made a wholehearted 
commitment to shoulder United Nations responsibilities 
at home and abroad.
Japan’s  future  lies  in  a  straight  extension  of  our 
history over the past 70 years. Our pledge to never wage 
war will be handed down and fostered by the Japanese 
people for generations to come. Peace will take root only 
when conflicts are deprived of places to reside within 
our  hearts  and  our  way  of  life.  That  is  precisely  why 
Japan is working to continue taking action at the grass-
roots  level  around  the  world.  Japan  has  been,  is  now 
and will continue to be a force providing momentum for 
proactive contributions to peace.
Moreover, I wish to state and to pledge, first of all, 
that Japan is a nation that has worked to eliminate the 
war culture from people’s hearts, and it will spare no 
effort in continuing to do so. As early as the mid-1980s, 
Japan  launched  cooperation  in  Gaza  to  foster  human 
resources.  A  total  of  more  than  400  administrative 
officials  and  technical  experts  have  come  to  Japan  to 
receive  intensive  training.  One  of  them  is  Mr.  Najjar 
Osama,  a  young  man  serving  as  an  official  with  the 
Palestinian  Energy  and  Natural  Resources  Authority. 
He said:
“Gaza  has  no  natural  resources  whatsoever. 
The  only  thing  we  have  is  people,  a  situation  the 
same  as  Japan’s.  What  I  learned  in  Japan  is  the 
spirit of never, ever giving up.”
After being educated in Japan for a month, Najjar 
Osama  brought  solar-power  technology  back  to  his 
hometown, to be attached to the facility in greatest need 
of a stand-alone power system. The equipment that he 
and  his  colleagues  introduced  to  the  largest  hospital 
in the Gaza Strip has endured the unrest and kept the 
lights on in the hospital’s emergency room.
It is perhaps more than just a coincidence that the 
Somalia  story  I  wish  to  tell  also  relates  to  lighting. 
The  most  important  thing  for  Hamidah  Hassan  —  a 
girl 10 years of age, living in the camps for internally 
displaced  persons  in  Mogadishu  —  was  lighting  to 
illuminate the camp’s tents at night. A lit tent acts as 
a deterrent to sexual violence. Over the past two years, 
Japan  has  distributed  to  internally  displaced  persons, 
including  young  girls  such  as  Hamidah,  some  2,500 
small lanterns, made by Panasonic, that bank electricity 
generated from sunlight during the day and convert it 
to  lamplight  at  night.  Hamidah  is  now  working  hard, 
dreaming that one day she will become a doctor.
We  must  continue  to  clear  away  anxiety  and  fear 
from  people’s  hearts  and  cull  any  shoots  of  hatred. 
Japan  and  the  Japanese  people  will  continue  to  do 
our  best  to  offer  our  own  willingness  and  capacity, 
knowledge  and  experience,  in  order  to  make  that  a 
reality.  First  and  foremost,  we  will  continue  to  assist 
in  enhancing  education,  which  will  form  the  basis  of 
economic growth for those who need it, from primary 
education  to  vocational  training.  Our  aim,  always,  is 
to  internalize  the  joy  of  work  in  people’s  nature.  We 
hope for people to keenly realize that the sweat brought 
about by their labour is an investment in the future.
the 
Expanding  roads,  ports  and 
increasingly 
connected  power  grids, 
together  with  effective 
governance that is fully in step with those improvements, 
will help to bring about an affluent and peaceful society 
that values human rights. When that concept receives 
broad-based  support,  people  become  the  owners  of 
their society in the truest sense of the word. To expand 
that kind of society from a point to a line, and from a 
line to a plane, Japan has always sought foundations of 
peace. We have always focused our official development 
assistance philosophy on that approach.
The  banner  of  a  proactive  contribution  to  peace 
borne  by  the  Japanese  Government  is  a  flag  planted 
atop  the  natural  development  of  conviction  and  self-
confidence that we have acquired through many years 
of promoting human security, that is, working as hard 
as we could for the development of a society that places 
people front and centre. We will carry on with our work, 
hoping  to  create,  in  time,  a  fair  and  just  society  that 
places human beings front and centre and a democracy 
that values human rights.
Seventy years ago, the United Nations proclaimed 
its determination “to save succeeding generations from 
the  scourge  of  war”  and  to  “practice  tolerance”.  The 
United  Nations  must  not  depart  from  those  ideals.  It 
is with exactly that determination that Japan aspires to 
join the Security Council once again as a non-permanent 
member  next  year,  marking  the  seventieth  year  since 
the start of the United Nations.
30/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Over  the  58  long  years  since  Japan  became  a 
Member of the United Nations in 1956, as its eightieth 
Member, Japan has worked tirelessly for the causes of 
the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  our  efforts  have 
been second to none. It is my wish, with the seventieth 
anniversary as a turning point, that countries sharing 
the same aims can all work together to finally resolve 
the  long-standing  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations in a way that reflects the realities of the twenty-
first century. In that context, Japan seeks to become a 
permanent member of the Security Council and to take 
on an appropriate role that the status requires.
It was on the same occasion last year that I spoke 
of  the  significance  and  importance  of  enhancing  the 
power of women and appealed for us to create a society 
in which women shine (see A/68/PV.12). Japan has now 
begun to work towards resolving the numerous issues 
we  face,  together  with  private  industries,  in  order  to 
increase  women’s  participation  in  society  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  must  foster  environments  in  which  it  is 
possible to balance child care and nursing care on the 
one hand and work on the other. In addition, eliminating 
biases about the roles of women that still exist in society 
will be basic, more so than anything else.
We  have  just  held  a  large-scale  international 
conference  with  an  aim  of  promoting  the  dynamic 
participation of women. With an eye set on economic 
development  and  the  resolution  of  global  issues, 
about  100  leaders  from  all  sectors  of  society  from 
around  the  world  sent  out  a  message  to  the  world  of 
their commitment to bringing the power of women to 
fruition. In less than a year, the empowerment of women 
has become a guiding principle that has driven Japan’s 
policies  both  domestically  and  overseas.  Japan  has 
focused  on  advancing  the  status  of  girls  and  mothers 
in  Africa,  a  region  that  receives  emphasis  within  our 
foreign aid.
The  twentieth  century  had  a  history  of  profound 
harm  to  women’s  honour  and  dignity  when  conflicts 
broke  out.  Around  the  globe,  we  still  find  abhorrent 
circumstances  in  which  women  are  denied  access 
to  such  basic  services  as  medical  care  and  education 
merely  because 
thereby 
depriving them of opportunities to become self-reliant. 
Japan seeks to be a country that walks alongside such 
women throughout the world. We intend to encourage 
and support, throughout the world, the self-reliance of 
women whose hearts have suffered grievous harm.
they  were  born  female, 
We  intend  to  make  the  twenty-first  century  a 
world without human rights violations against women. 
Japan will stand at the fore and lead the international 
community  in  eliminating  sexual  violence  during 
conflicts. Therein lies the reason for Japan to reinforce 
its  cooperation  with  Ms.  Zainab  Bangura’s  Office  of 
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on 
Sexual Violence in Conflict.
Fundamental  rights  such  as  education  and  health 
must be ensured everywhere throughout the world. It is 
necessary for the United Nations and, indeed, the world 
to  come  together  as  one  to  take  action  so  that  girls 
and boys can attend school equally and that expectant 
mothers can receive medical care with peace of mind. 
Moreover, in order for women to lead lives full of pride 
and hope, I consider it essential to develop their ability 
to be economically self-reliant, above all else. I do not 
have  the  slightest  doubt  that  the  creation  of  a  society 
in  which  women  shine  holds  the  key  to  changing  the 
whole of society.
Last  year  I  pledged  in  my  address  here,  before 
the  General  Assembly,  that  Japan  would  implement 
assistance  in  excess  of  $3  billion  over  three  years, 
aimed  chiefly  at  advancing  the  status  of  women.  The 
amount  already  implemented  over  the  past  year  is 
$1.8 billion, more than half the amount pledged. I also 
stated  Japan  respected  the  activities  of  UN-Women, 
which  is  responsible  for  women’s  issues  within  the 
United  Nations,  and  that  we  intended  to  become  one 
of  its  leading  contributors  and  thus  a  model  country 
in  that  area.  Over  the  past  year,  Japan  increased  its 
contributions to UN-Women fivefold, and in the future 
we  will  further  increase  the  number  of  projects  we 
support. We are also very pleased that next year UN-
Women will open its Tokyo office. I expect that Japan 
will  further  enhance  its  coordination  with  the  United 
Nations through that new office.
As we draw up the post-2015 development agenda, 
Japan  will  continue  to  be  as  strongly  involved  as  it 
has  been  to  date.  However,  I  strongly  urge  that  if  we 
are  to  truly  attain  inclusiveness,  sustainability  and 
resilience, as put forth in that agenda, then protection 
and  empowerment  of  the  vulnerable,  irrespective  of 
race, gender, or age, is important.
This  year  Japan  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary 
of  the  start  of  its  official  development  assistance 
(ODA).  Having  learned  from  the  determination  of 
our predecessors, who began working to extend ODA 
14-54841
31/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
a  mere  nine  years  after  suffering  total  devastation  in 
war, the Government of Japan is now in the process of 
establishing new guiding principles for our ODA. We 
intend to once more emphasize as priorities objectives 
such as high-quality economic growth, ensuring rule of 
law and realizing a peaceful and stable society.
The objectives that Japan has continuously targeted 
through  its  ODA  over  those  60  years  will  not  change 
in the slightest. There will be no change in our deeply 
rooted approach in which the most important thing in the 
fight against poverty is to cultivate a sense of ownership 
among the people concerned and to encourage self-help 
efforts. Nor will there be any changes in our efforts to 
fully  ensure  human  security.  Moreover,  as  we  pursue 
enhancing  women’s  empowerment  as  the  leverage 
point, I consider the attainment of our goals to be that 
much nearer.
Over  the  past  20  years  Japan  has  sent  about 
9,700  people  on  13  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  In  the  10  years  since  the  establishment  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  Japan’s  contributions 
to the Peacebuilding Fund have surpassed $40 million. 
In  the  future,  we  intend  to  cultivate  still  further  our 
human resources in terms of both quantity and quality, 
to contribute to the area of peacebuilding.
As  the  only  country  ever  to  have  suffered  the 
devastation of atomic bombings during wartime, Japan 
is prepared to lead discussions in the Review Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  be  convened  next  year  —  the 
seventieth anniversary of the atomic bombings.
With  regard  to  North  Korea,  Japan  will  work 
in  coordination  with  relevant  countries  towards  the 
comprehensive 
issues, 
including abduction and nuclear and missile issues.
resolution  of  outstanding 
Japan has been among the biggest beneficiaries of 
the United Nations. Going forward, we will work harder 
than  ever  to  bring  about  realization  of  the  principles 
set forth by the United Nations. Japan is a nation that 
implements  its  pledges  without  fail.  With  that,  I  will 
end my discussion.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Ethiopia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic 
of  Ethiopia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Dessalegn  (Ethiopia):  It  is  indeed  a  great 
pleasure to see a seasoned African diplomat presiding 
over the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I 
would  like  to  express  my  warmest  congratulations  to 
him  on  his  election  to  that  high  office.  I  know  he  is 
aware, as we are, that he is assuming his responsibility 
at one of the most critical periods in the history of this 
Organization  and  that  of  multilateralism  in  general. 
Those of us in the East African region know him very 
well  as  a  friend  and  distinguished  diplomat.  We  are 
confident that he will use his wisdom and experience 
to build consensus on a range of issues on the agenda 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  historic  session  and 
effectively guide its work. Let me therefore assure him 
of the full support and cooperation of my delegation in 
the successful discharge of his heavy responsibilities. I 
also wish to commend his predecessor for the excellent 
contribution  he  made  to  ensuring  the  success  of  the 
sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Indeed, 
it was a remarkable session, which laid the foundation 
for the major task that lies ahead.
This session is being held at a historic time, when 
we have embarked upon a major undertaking to shape 
the future we want for present and future generations. If 
we do what we must, it could be remembered in history 
as a session that helped us turn the corner in ensuring 
effective  custodianship  of  the  environment,  economic 
justice and social responsibility. What we agreed over 
two  years  ago  in  Rio  must  be  what  galvanizes  our 
common effort. We said then that poverty eradication 
is the greatest global challenge facing the world today 
and  an  indispensable  requirement  for  sustainable 
development.
32/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Last  month,  we  marked  500  days  until  the  target 
date for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
which  we  have  agreed  to  achieve  by  the  end  of  2015. 
In Africa, robust economic growth has been registered 
over  the  past  decade,  and  the  stereotypical  narrative 
about the continent is slowly changing. Africa is now 
the rising continent, offering tremendous opportunities 
for  trade  and  investment.  Notable  progress  has  also 
been made towards achieving the MDGs, including in 
my own country, Ethiopia. There are nonetheless many 
remaining challenges, such as with respect to reducing 
the maternal death rate.
It is therefore necessary, as we move forward in the 
negotiations  to  formulate  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  not  to  overlook  the  fact  that  the  MDGs  are 
still  unfinished  business.  The  post-2015  development 
agenda will be complete when it rests on a satisfactory 
outcome in terms of the implementation of the MDGs. 
Accordingly, the remaining months should be used to 
accelerate  their  implementation.  Moreover,  the  post-
2015 development agenda will need to make provision 
for  concluding  any  aspects  of  the  MDGs  that  might 
have to be carried beyond 2015.
What  we  have  done  thus  far  in  connection  with 
laying  the  groundwork  for  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  both  at  the  intergovernmental  level  and  that 
of  the  Secretariat,  has  been  encouraging.  The  Open 
Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals has 
successfully completed its work, and the two co-chairs 
must  be  commended  for  the  contribution  they  have 
made.  It  would  be  proper,  as  the  Assembly  decided 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  to  use  the  Open  Working 
Group’s proposals as a basis for integrating sustainable 
development  goals  into  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
I  would  also  like  to  express  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  efforts  he  has  made  in  that 
regard, in conformity with the request contained in the 
outcome document (resolution 65/1) of the 2010 MDG 
Summit. The work of the High-level Panel of Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  has 
been  significant.  We  are  particularly  appreciative  of 
the invaluable contribution made by the United Nations 
System  Task  Team  on  the  Post-2015  United  Nations 
Development Agenda. We look forward to the synthesis 
report  by  the  Secretary-General,  which  we  trust  will 
help  facilitate  effective  conversation  among  Member 
States  and  productive  intergovernmental  negotiations 
with  a  view  to  formulating  a  post-2015  development 
agenda that reflects the interests of present and future 
generations by next year.
We  have  no  doubt  that  a  post-2015  development 
agenda that responds to the major challenges the world 
faces  must  rest  on  a  readiness  to  foster  cooperation, 
based  on  the  principle  of  equitable  and  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities. It is difficult to imagine 
that the difficult but indispensable issues surrounding 
the  means  of  implementation  can  be  resolved  unless 
there  is  flexibility  on  the  question  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities.
One  thing  is  clear  in  all  this.  The  world  has  the 
capacity  and  resources  to  effectively  respond  to  the 
pressing needs we see, to eradicate poverty and ensure 
sustainable development for all. That has been affirmed 
by the advance unedited report of the Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing. The Committee has not offered us definitive 
proposals,  but  rather  recommendations  designed,  as 
they  say,  to  stimulate  discussions.  It  has  nonetheless 
expressed  its  hope  that  progress  will  be  made  on 
development  financing  at 
third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development, which is to 
take place in Addis Ababa in July 2015. Let me affirm 
our commitment to doing our best to ensure that that 
historic and extremely critical conference succeeds. It 
appears to us to be obvious that the effectiveness of the 
post-2015 agenda depends, among other things, on the 
success of the Addis Ababa conference. At any rate, it 
is with that conviction that we will proceed to discharge 
our responsibility as the host country.
the 
This is also the time when we are striving to achieve 
an ambitious target that we have set for ourselves: that 
is,  to  reach  a  globally  binding  climate  agreement  by 
2015 that will limit the rise in the global temperature 
to  below  2  ̊  Celsius.  Let  me  once  again  express  my 
appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
convening  the  Climate  Summit  two  days  ago.  I  hope 
the  outcome  of  the  Summit  will  help  us  to  make 
progress  in  achieving  this  fundamental  objective  by 
catalysing  action  to  reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
and strengthening climate resilience.
Needless to say, we in Africa are already facing the 
brunt  of  climate  change,  and  this  is  undermining  our 
efforts to meet our development aspirations, including 
the Millennium Development Goals. For us, adaptation 
and  mitigation  remain  a  priority,  and  we  need  urgent 
international  support  for  our  efforts  in  that  regard. 
Although  we  have  contributed  virtually  nothing  to 
14-54841
33/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
global warming, we are indeed playing a leading role 
in  terms  of  mitigation  by  scaling  up  our  efforts  in 
renewable energy and promoting energy efficiency. It is 
only fair and proper that that be adequately recognized 
and supported.
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  challenge  posed 
by  climate  change  requires  leadership  and  political 
commitment  at  all  levels.  We  have  no  choice  but  to 
rise  to  that  challenge  by  taking  concrete  actions  to 
help reduce emissions and demonstrating the necessary 
political  will  to  achieve  a  globally  binding  climate 
agreement by 2015 in Paris. Failure is not an option.
What  we  see  here  at  the  United  Nations  is  a 
readiness on the part of States to think big and focus 
on what unites us. That is what underlies the complex 
negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda. In 
sharp contrast to that, what we are witnessing today is 
a general deterioration of the global security situation. 
The  world  is  passing  through  a  turbulent  period,  and 
that  is  not  an  exaggeration.  The  proliferation  and 
intensity of conflicts have significantly increased.
In our part of the world, progress made over the past 
decade is being undermined by new cycles of violence 
and conflict. The crisis in South Sudan is an example. 
We in the Intergovernmental Authority on Development 
(IGAD) region are doing everything we can to resolve 
the South Sudanese crisis through peaceful means with 
the  support  of  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union 
and  international  partners.  But  progress,  let  alone 
a  breakthrough,  has  not  been  easy  to  come  by.  The 
situation  highlights  an  often  encountered  challenge. 
Progress  in  peacemaking  can  hardly  be  contemplated 
when  there  is  a  lack  of  sufficient  commitment  to 
a  peaceful  resolution  of  a  crisis  by  the  parties  to  the 
conflict.  But  IGAD  is  determined  to  expend  every 
possible  effort  to  find  a  lasting  solution  to  the  crisis 
through an all-inclusive political dialogue.
In contrast with the situation in South Sudan and 
with situations in many parts of the world, the situation 
in Somalia has been improving over the course of the 
year. Al-Shabaab may not have been entirely removed 
as a threat, but it has been greatly degraded. The recent 
setback it suffered is bound to speed up its demise. The 
military  gains  made  on  the  ground  cannot,  however, 
be  sustained  without  progress  on  the  political  track 
through the establishment of local administrations and 
the maintenance of law and order in the newly liberated 
areas.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  establishment 
of  interim  local  administrations  in  central  and  south-
west  Somalia  in  line  with  the  provisional  Federal 
Constitution. We need to continue to support Somalia 
in  its  efforts  to  rebuild  itself  and  make  a  successful 
transition by 2016.
Conflict is not an exclusively African phenomenon. 
What has become obvious lately is how much the global 
security  situation  is  becoming  a  source  of  concern. 
Never  since  the  end  of  the  cold  war  has  the  global 
security situation been as fragile as it is today. The threat 
of terrorism has affected ever greater and wider areas 
of the world. At no time over the past many decades has 
the need for effective cooperation at the international 
and regional levels been as pressing and as urgent as it 
is today. That the issue of foreign fighters has become 
a source of major concern to many is obvious. What is 
required to make progress in addressing the challenge is 
a readiness to forge cooperation that brooks no double 
standards. We need to be resolute in our determination 
to work together.
All  that  means  that  at  no  time  in  recent  memory 
has multilateralism been as immensely crucial for the 
future of the world as it is today. The fact that nations 
are  driven  by  the  pursuit  of  national  interests  has 
always been self-evident. But at this juncture in world 
history and in the light of the many common challenges 
that  we  all  face,  we  have  no  more  realistic  option 
than  a  commitment  to  enlightened  national  interest, 
which can be promoted only within the framework of 
multilateralism.
That, in our view, is the sentiment that we should 
all share at the beginning of the sixty-ninth session of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  cannot  be  oblivious  to  the 
nexus between our sustainable development agenda and 
the global situation of peace and security. “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda”,  the  theme  of  this  session, 
requires a peaceful and stable global environment. It is 
also in that context that the threat of the spread of the 
Ebola virus should be viewed. It is both a humanitarian 
and a security challenge. Containing the spread of the 
deadly virus should be a matter of utmost priority.
implementing  a 
Let me reiterate that it is critical that we collectively 
address  the  myriad  of  peace  and  security  challenges 
facing  our  world  in  order  to  facilitate  progress  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
in the remaining period and to lay a solid foundation for 
the realization of our transformative agenda in the post-
2015  era,  as  well  as  to  achieve  a  meaningful  climate 
agreement.
34/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
I  wish 
to  conclude  by  stressing  Ethiopia’s 
commitment to multilateralism, to joining hands with 
all  like-minded  countries  in  order  to  contribute  to 
regional and international peace and security and to the 
successful realization of the major projects that we will 
undertake  in  connection  with  the  post-2015  agenda. 
As  a  founding  member  of  the  Organization  and  as  a 
member of the League of Nations — although Ethiopia 
was  abandoned  by  the  League  —  Ethiopia  attaches 
the  highest  priority  to  cooperation  among  peoples 
and  countries  with  a  view  to  addressing  common 
challenges.  It  is  our  conviction  that  might  does  not 
make  right.  There  is  no  substitute  for  the  pursuit  of 
mutual advantages as a guideline for a realistic and just 
foreign policy. That is our guide for all the friendships 
and partnerships we have and will continue to develop.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Matteo Renzi, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Matteo Renzi, President 
of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Renzi  (Italy)  (spoke  in  Italian;  interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  like  to  greet  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  confess  how  deeply  moved 
I feel to be here. For those who have never spoken in 
the Assembly Hall, it remains a place of extraordinary 
fascination  and  appeal.  For  those  who  have  become 
accustomed to being in such halls, they may consider 
it  as  something  already  seen  and  experienced.  For 
someone like me, who is in the Hall for the first time 
today, the emotion is overwhelming to find oneself in 
the  place  where  there  is  a  sense  of  still  being  able  to 
build a horizon of human rights, respect, freedom and 
peace. I feel the emotion of the future in a place where 
a great Secretary-General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjőld, had 
the  strength,  the  vision  and  the  intuition  to  design  a 
different world. For those, like us, who grew up with that 
model, the statement “For all that has been — thanks. 
For all that shall be — yes”, which Dag Hammarskjőld 
wrote in his diary, the United Nations was something 
more than a political programme, it was the very idea 
of a definition of politics.
Yet  today,  the  future  appears  threatening.  The 
future is frightening. The future is no longer promising. 
We  want  to  believe  that  it  is  possible  to  return  to  the 
idea of tomorrow. It is the dream of the United Nations 
to  return  to  the  goal  of  preserving  future  generations 
from  the  horrors  of  war.  Today,  however,  we  must 
have the courage also to say, when looking back at the 
history of the Organization, that the errors of the past 
cannot be erased. The year 2015 is the year in which we 
will recall the twentieth anniversary of what happened 
in Srebrenica, when international institutions remained 
silent before one of the worst massacres and genocides 
that  still  today  finds  no  justification.  That  is  why  we 
need  to  repeat  in  this  Hall  today  that  it  is  time  for 
politics to return to finding a definition of a future of 
hope.
My  generation  grew  up  hearing  that  history  had 
ended, that the century that had just passed was a short 
century in which we had already seen everything. But 
history has not ended, the century we have left behind us 
was not short, and today, we must say that the political 
way  is  the  only  way  to  prevent  the  bloodletting  that 
is causing so much grief in the Mediterranean, in the 
Middle East, in Ukraine and in many regions of Africa.
Because of its central location, Italy has the will and 
the need to play a greater role in the Mediterranean. Italy, 
whose gift to the world is the image of the city and the 
public square — in the sense of an open gathering place 
for the community — cannot be silent when confronted 
with  the  transformation  of  the  Mediterranean,  which 
should be the heart of Europe and the public square for 
discussion and confrontation, but has all too often been 
transformed into a cemetery.
I  take  the  floor  today  one  year  after  the  Italian 
Government  launched  an  important  operation  called 
Mare  Nostrum.  Thanks  to  that  operation,  I  can  stand 
before the Assembly and say that the men and women 
of the Italian Coast Guard and volunteer services have 
saved  80,000  human  lives,  80,000  people  who  could 
become  doctors,  musicians,  workers,  80,000  people 
14-54841
35/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
who were pulled from the Mediterranean as if from a 
cemetery, thanks to an operation that we take pride in 
but that cannot be left only to Italy today. We need to 
say  forcefully  that  intervention  in  the  Mediterranean 
area  is  a  strategic  intervention  for  the  international 
community that cannot only be left to a single force.
In  saying  that,  we  need  to  add  that  the  priority 
for  that  area  today  is  Libya  and  our  friends,  the 
Libyan  people,  who  are  suffering  through  a  time  of 
transition that seems never to end. We are committed 
not  to  underestimate  a  hot  spot  in  the  midst  of  the 
Mediterranean that could reach a point of no return in 
a spiral of violence and instability in the region. Italy 
will  continue  to  do  its  part,  but  we  must  emphasize 
with  decisiveness  and  intensity  in  this  prestigious 
forum  that  the  risk  of  a  gradual  fragmentation  of 
Libya  and  the  negative  consequences  that  that  would 
trigger  for  the  entire  North  African  region  would  be 
catastrophic for peace and stability in the entire region. 
We  are  committed  to  supporting  a  strong  and  stable 
Libya, and we will continue to work with the Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Libya 
through our embassy, which is still open, but we want 
to  say  with  great  determination  that  the  situation  in 
Libya must be a priority for all.
Another  priority,  especially  for  those  today  who 
are preparing for a discussion on the terrorist threat in 
the Middle East and elsewhere, is to be aware that the 
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), as was said 
yesterday with great force, is not just a terrorist threat 
to a specific region, but a risk for the entire community 
of men and women who would call themselves human. 
We are not dealing with a form of religious expression. 
Religions  can  both  fuel  the  fires  of  a  conflict  and 
provide water to heal wounds. We believe that ISIL and 
the threat it represents are not connected in the slightest 
way with a conflict of religions.
At  the  same  time,  we  say  forcefully  that  those  of 
us who had the duty  — or the good fortune, if I may 
speak  provocatively  —  to  visit  a  refugee  camp,  as  I 
did in the second half of August in Erbil, Kurdistan, in 
Iraq, will realize that we cannot be unresponsive to the 
dismayed faces of so many victims of fanaticism. To see 
an international aid worker who shows you images on 
her cellphone of children who were executed, who were 
lined up against a wall and shot; to hear stories about 
young women taken to barracks in the centre of Mosul 
and  forced,  in  silence  and  powerlessness,  to  satisfy 
all the desires of violent terrorists; to think of what is 
happening  to  journalists  and  hostages  —  requires  us 
to  say  what  must  be  said.  A  genocide  is  under  way, 
and in the face of such activities, we know that only a 
unified international community can win this battle of 
civilization  against  evil.  That  is  why  I  said  yesterday 
to President Obama that the international coalition can 
count  on  Italy’s  support  to  eliminate  the  threat  posed 
by  ISIL,  and  I  continue  to  insist  on  the  fact  that  the 
commitment  of  our  country  in  every  region  and  in 
every  area  of  the  region  will  be  resolute  and,  I  hope, 
decisive.
Italy has contributed and will continue to contribute 
in Lebanon, through our soldiers and their commitment 
to supporting the United Nations peacekeeping mission 
deployed  in  the  south  of  Lebanon.  I  would  take  this 
opportunity to express my heartfelt gratitude to those 
women  and  men  who,  from  Lebanon  to  Afghanistan, 
wear  the  uniform  of  our  country  to  make  a  concrete 
commitment  to  ensuring  stability  and  peace.  But  at 
the  same  time,  I  know,  we  know,  that  there  will  be 
no  peace  in  the  region  until  what  a  great  prophet  of 
Italian  political  thought,  Giorgio  La  Pira,  called  the 
“peace  of  the  children  of  Abraham”  has  brought  an 
end to the unresolved conflict between the Israelis and 
Palestinians.
We will never tire of seeking peace for Jerusalem, 
and  a  ceasefire  in  Gaza  will  be  consolidated  and 
respected  only  if  we  all  recognize  the  two-State 
solution  and  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
finally  have  a  homeland.  As  I  have  said  before  and  I 
repeat here, it is not only a right but a duty for Israel 
to exist — for the sake of history, memory, innovation, 
democracy,  freedom,  of  which  the  Israeli  people  give 
constant  proof.  The  entire  international  community 
must support that process. Those words must be clearly 
heard  in  this  Hall,  where  someone  once  dared  to  call 
into question the very right of Israel to exist.
It is dialogue and politics that can prevent a return 
to the dialectics of the cold war. We had thought that 
those  times  were  behind  us,  but  now  the  tensions  on 
the  eastern  borders  of  Ukraine  risk  are  jeopardizing 
the  greatest  achievement  of  the  European  integration 
process  —  a  continent  of  peace  and  stability.  Never 
before had there been such a long period of peace as the 
one we are experiencing today in Europe.
But the crisis in Ukraine has forced us to confront 
unexpected  challenges.  I  believe  that  there  is  a 
connection between two fundamental principles — the 
right  of  the  Ukrainian  people  to  have  the  territorial 
36/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
unity of their country recognized in the face of acts of 
aggression  that  have  violated  its  integrity,  and  at  the 
same  time,  I  hope  that  we  can  overcome  the  tensions 
with the Russian Federation, which will, I hope, return 
to playing its role as a global stakeholder so needed by 
the international community.
A  great  expert 
in  politics  from 
the  Italian 
Renaissance,  Niccolò  Macchiavelli,  wrote,  “To  know 
how  to  recognize  an  opportunity  in  war  and  take  is 
of  greater  benefit  than  anything  else”.  Macchiavelli’s 
words helps us understand in this moment that the Minsk 
Agreement is a great opportunity in the war under way 
in  Ukraine.  We  must  seize  this  opportunity  for  the 
people of Ukraine and the international community.
Dialogue  and  reconciliation  are 
indispensable 
tools in the Sudan, Somalia and in the Central African 
region. They are the strong point of our community as 
it faces newly emerging difficulties, starting with the 
Ebola virus and its dramatic humanitarian, social and 
economic consequences. Italy is doing its part and will 
continue  to  do  so,  following  the  Secretary-General’s 
leadership and inspiration, whom I thank for his prompt 
action.
But I should also emphasize that political solutions 
are  the  only  way  forward  for  the  year  2015,  although 
they are often marked by complex, difficult challenges. 
Problems to be solved include the challenge of achieving 
new global governance of the Internet, as the President 
of  Brazil  mentioned  yesterday  (see  A/69/PV.6),  and 
the  challenge  of  finally  making  a  major  investment 
in  gender  equality,  so  that  we  no  longer  consider  it 
newsworthy  when  a  woman  takes  on  a  position  of 
responsibility. I am very proud to say that for the first 
time in its history, women make up more than half of 
my Government. I am happy and pleased to say that we 
will never fall short in our commitment to leadership 
roles for women, but above all we will fight to ensure 
that young women can be free in developing countries 
and nations facing especially difficult situations.
I cannot emphasize strongly enough that 2015 will 
be a very important year in the fight against religious 
discrimination. Every religious minority has the right 
to be defended. Never before have so many Christians 
been killed in regions around the world because of their 
faith, and never before has one of the genuine tragedies 
of our times been so badly underestimated. Within the 
international  community  it  is  especially  vital  that  we 
forcefully  affirm  the  values  of  equality,  respect  and 
tolerance, which are of special relevance for us in Italy 
when talking about the death penalty. That is why this 
new  session  of  the  General  Assembly  coincides  with 
the presentation of a new draft resolution on abolishing 
capital punishment. I hope that the number of countries 
supporting it will continue to grow.
I would like to say that I am especially excited to 
be  able  to  speak  about  that  on  behalf  of  Italy,  which 
has  always  fought  at  both  the  governmental  and  the 
non-governmental levels to make that issue a priority. 
Earlier in my career, I was mayor of the city of Florence, 
which was the first place in history to abolish the death 
penalty.  A  herald  descended  the  steps  of  the  Palazzo 
Vecchio  to  announce  that  in  that  State,  the  Grand 
Duchy,  the  death  penalty  had  been  abolished.  Let  us 
not pile more barbarous acts on other ones. I ask every 
State to join us in this battle for civilization.
The  year  2015  will  also  be  an  important  one  for 
the  Expo  in  Milan  and  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change Conference in Paris, which we discussed two 
days  ago,  and  for  actions  that  remind  us  of  the  need 
for a turning point, such as in the debate over Security 
Council  reform.  We  all  believe  that  the  Council  must 
be  made  more  effective,  representative,  transparent 
and  accountable  to  the  members  of  the  international 
community. But opinions on how to achieve that goal 
still differ. In order to bring the various reform models 
closer  together,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  to 
which my country belongs, continues to maintain that 
creating  new  permanent  members  would  imperil  that 
goal, and I reiterate our willingness to find compromise 
solutions.
I believe that it is crucial that all those challenges 
be  seen  as  subsumed  within  the  greatest  challenge  of 
them all, one in which we must all be on the front lines. 
There  can  be  no  peace,  no  freedom,  no  respect  until 
the  international  community  puts  at  the  centre  of  its 
strategy  a  gigantic,  grand  investment  into  education, 
schools,  universities,  going  from  house  to  house, 
village  to  village,  piazza  to  piazza.  We  say  that  the 
most powerful weapon in affirming the values of peace 
and  freedom  is  the  weapon  of  education,  of  culture, 
of  human  capital,  of  investment  in  people  and  in  the 
stories and freedoms of individual women and men.
That is why I believe that, while we are living in 
difficult  times,  we  are  also  living  in  a  time  when  we 
must, as former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld 
put it, say yes to the future. He also said, “We are not 
permitted to choose the frame of our destiny. But what 
we put into it is ours”. We are not permitted to choose 
14-54841
37/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
the  frame  of  our  destiny.  We  are  living  in  a  time  of 
threats  and  problems.  Yet  what  we  can  put  into  it  is 
entirely ours. Within this frame of our destiny we can 
once again inspire others with the values of education, 
freedom and peace, so long as we are stay true to our 
history and hopeful for our future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Republic of Italy for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Statement by Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  President  of  the  European 
Council.
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
European Council, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council, and inviting him to 
make a statement.
the 
Mr.  Van  Rompuy  (European  Council)  (spoke  in 
French): The world today is much more dangerous than 
when we were together here last year. Fear is stronger 
than  hope,  I’m  afraid.  Tragic  events  have  marked 
us.  More  than  200  schoolgirls  were  abducted  and 
enslaved.  An  airliner  packed  with  parents,  children, 
scientists, tourists and crew members was cut down in 
mid-flight.  A  mountain  people  were  hunted,  trapped 
and slaughtered. And last week, at sea, 500 people were 
shipwrecked, the victims of murderous smugglers.
Those  dark  episodes  disturb  us  in  that  they  seem 
to herald deeper changes. Public opinion is beginning 
to  fear  that  the  world  is  slipping  through  our  fingers 
and turning to evil. It is as if the political foundation 
of our very existence together is being challenged, as 
if the way individuals and States relate to one another 
is threatened. Our citizens see the rise of obscurantism 
and the forces of fanaticism; they see the boundaries of 
a world of yesterday — of the day before yesterday, of 
an insane world — reappearing. Yes, as my countryman 
Paul-Henri  Spaak  said  66  years  ago  before  this  same 
Assembly, we are afraid. Ours is not the fear of a coward, 
but  the  fear  that  a  man  can  and  should  have  when  he 
looks to the future and considers all that it may hold of 
horror and tragedy, and the terrible responsibilities in 
that future (see A/PV.147, p. 280).
(spoke in English)
When the values we share are under pressure, when 
the  order  of  things  seems  to  be  unravelling,  we  must 
act. We must bring back our girls and free them from 
Boko Haram. We must allow the families of the victims 
of  Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17  to  pay  their  last 
respects to their loved ones, and keep alive the memory 
of  the  hopeful  people  drowned  in  the  Mediterranean. 
All of us must also mobilize against the barbaric group 
that is the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). 
Together, we can make the world a safer place again.
When  looking  back  upon  the  past  year,  the  most 
bewildering  act  in  our  region,  for  us  in  Europe,  was 
the abrupt and illegal annexation of Crimea in March. 
That violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  triggered  the  gravest  threat  to  the  European 
security  order  in  decades.  It  matters  beyond  the 
European  continent.  It  is  about  rejecting  the  use  of 
force and about defending the rule of law that upholds 
our society of nations. The General Assembly assumed 
its responsibility by adopting resolution 68/262 on the 
territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine.  Members  defended 
those very values that the Charter of the United Nations 
was  built  upon.  The  European  Union  welcomes  the 
strong  message  that  the  breaking  of  rules  will  not  be 
tolerated. When you tamper with borders, you tamper 
with peace.
The  European  Union  stands  firm  in  its  solidarity 
with  Ukraine.  It  is  the  Ukrainian  people’s  right  to 
decide  their  own  political  destiny.  Europe  responded 
to  aggression  and  the  violation  of  international  law 
with a wide range of political, economic and financial 
sanctions.  We  knew  that  that  could  hurt  our  own 
economies in return, but together with our international 
partners,  we  did  not  relent,  since  the  stability  of  the 
European  house  itself  was  at  stake.  Now  all  of  us 
must ensure that the peace process launched in Minsk 
advances,  and  that  all  parties  respect  the  ceasefire 
and  abide  by  the  peace  plan.  The  sanctions  are  not  a 
goal in themselves, and they can be revised, provided 
that there is tangible progress. We can rebuild trust if 
commitments are met.
At  the  same  time,  it  is  essential  that  Ukraine’s 
authorities  move  firmly  forward  on  the  path  of 
38/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
reforms.  Those  reforms  —  economic,  political  and 
constitutional — will determine the success of a lasting 
political  solution.  The  country’s  political  life  and 
prosperity shall belong to all its citizens. An inclusive 
Ukraine with a new social contract and a fair balance 
between  the  parts  and  the  whole  is  the  best  way  to 
secure the country’s future.
European  Union  countries  and  institutions  are 
fully  committed  to  supporting  Ukraine  as  it  follows 
that path. The European Union Association Agreement 
with  the  Ukraine,  which  was  ratified  just  last  week 
by  the  Ukrainian  Verkhovna  Rada  and  the  European 
Parliament,  is  a  compass  and  an  opportunity  to  help 
Ukraine transform into the dynamic, modern and open 
democracy its people deserve. The steps ahead in this 
cooperation will take place within the wider picture of 
the peace process. With Russia, our biggest neighbour, 
we are ready to engage and re-establish a basis of trust 
and of promises kept.
There  are  nearly  200  countries  in  this  world,  but 
many thousands of minorities. Clearly, there is no other 
way than ensuring inclusiveness, respecting identities 
and giving people a voice. As a Belgian and a European, 
I know it can be a real effort to stay together. It requires 
constant attention, openness, empathy and willingness 
to  adjust.  Countries  do  not  have  to  break  up  to  allow 
for multiple, often multi-layered, identities to coexist. 
Unity in diversity can work.
The most pressing concern on all our minds today 
is  Iraq,  Syria  and  the  wider  Middle  East.  I  need  not 
sketch the bleak outlook, sinister deeds or unspeakable 
suffering  in  the  region.  What  we  have  seen  this  past 
summer has nothing to do with Islam. It is the return 
of  barbaric  ghosts  from  a  long-forgotten  past  and 
horrendous deeds rejecting that we are one humankind 
and denying the very basic values of civilization.
As the Grand Mufti of Egypt said to me two weeks 
ago,  ISIL  is  abusing  the  name  of  Islam  and  the  very 
values  of  Islam  and  of  every  religion.  I  welcome  the 
statements made and measures taken by the League of 
Arab States, the Organization for Islamic Cooperation 
and  Muslim  nations  against  ISIL.  It  is  essential  that 
the  parties  and  neighbours  most  concerned  be  at  the 
frontlines of this common fight, but all of us must do 
our share to confront and isolate ISIL, block financial 
flows and weapon flows, cut off illegal oil revenue and 
stop  the  influx  of  foreign  fighters.  European  Union 
Governments are working hard on all those fronts.
As  we  know  from  our  own  national  experience, 
radicalization  can  strike  anywhere:  take  the  young 
jihadi fanatic from France who turned torturer in Syria 
and,  back  in  Europe,  murdered  four  innocent  victims 
in the Jewish Museum of Belgium, in my hometown of 
Brussels. We need urgent collective action to stop those 
foreign fighters from joining ISIL’s ranks, as so many 
of  us  underlined  in  yesterday’s  high-level  Security 
Council  meeting  (see  S/PV.7272).  We  also  must  work 
together  to  help  the  affected  countries.  Iraq’s  new 
Government, which is aiming for inclusive leadership, 
deserves  everybody’s  full  support  and  certainly  has 
ours.
However,  the  crisis  cannot  be  resolved  without  a 
political  solution  for  Syria.  We  owe  it  to  the  almost 
200,000  victims  and  the  millions  who  have  had  to 
flee  their  homes.  It  is  quite  simply  a  catastrophe  and 
one of the international community’s biggest failures. 
What  is  needed  is  a  comprehensive  regional  solution. 
It  must  include,  as  this  summer’s  tragic  events  in 
Gaza underlined once more, a two-State solution with 
an  independent,  democratic,  viable  Palestinian  State 
living side by side and in peace with Israel and its other 
neighbours.
The  violent  dynamics  are  spreading  instability  in 
all directions — into the Sahel region and as far south 
as  Nigeria,  but  also  to  the  east.  Those  dynamics  are 
fostering terrorism, organized crime, arms flows, drugs 
trafficking, human smuggling and radicalization, as we 
also see in Libya. I want to pay tribute to France for its 
efforts  to  help,  upon  their  requests,  the  Governments 
of Mali and the Central African Republic to restore the 
rule of law and instil inclusiveness and reconciliation 
in  close  collaboration  with  the  African  Union,  the 
United Nations and the whole of the European Union. 
We are ready to undertake our responsibility, knowing 
that we Europeans have no self-interested geostrategic 
objectives in the area. We turned that page of history 
decades ago.
A  collective  approach  is  important  to  deal  with 
another  tragic  symptom  of  an  imploding  Middle 
East:  dramatic  migration  in  the  Mediterranean.  We 
have seen millions of people fleeing the war in Syria 
into  countries  such  as  Jordan,  Lebanon  and  Turkey. 
European  lifeguards  rescue  up  to  1,000  people  a 
week  —  people  who  risk  their  lives  on  small  boats 
across the Mediterranean, looking for a life free from 
fear.  Many  come  from  countries  where  the  State 
14-54841
39/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
structures  have  crumbled,  where  violence  is  endemic 
and where people’s most basic needs cannot be met.
(spoke in French)
The only lasting answer to despair is development. 
I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  tireless  commitment  of 
the  United  Nations  and  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
promoting  the  development  goals,  including  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  and  to  maintaining  a  level 
of ambition for our actions that is commensurate with 
the  challenges.  I  also  acknowledge  their  efforts  with 
regard  to  climate  challenge,  where  Europe  remains 
committed  at  the  forefront  and  will  demonstrate  that 
commitment at the Paris negotiations next year. I hope 
that all nations — large and small, rich and poor — will 
assume their responsibility.
The Ebola crisis cruelly reminds us that just as the 
future of a country depends on its health facilities, the 
health of all may ultimately depend on such structures. 
Ebola  is  the  modern  plague.  The  teams  of  doctors, 
nurses  and  volunteers  must  be  strengthened.  Europe 
stands ready, with others, to help, to relieve and to heal.
This autumn, we commemorate the centenary of a 
great conflict that was the first to lead the entire world 
into its destructive spiral. It took the Second World War 
for  our  nations  to  pull  themselves  together  and  to  try 
and build peace together, making the birth of our union 
of  nations  possible.  Although,  since  then,  we  have 
managed  to  prevent  another  world  war,  we  have  still 
not  put  an  end  to  violence  between  or  within  States. 
We  meet  today  not  to  lament  the  unforgivable  but  to 
nurture hope and to achieve what we must do, that is, 
to act together.
(spoke in English)
We  must  overcome  fear.  We  must  overcome  fear 
by fighting danger, by restoring justice and by striving 
for peace so that next year, when our society of nations 
meets again in New York, we can say, “The spell of that 
dreadful summer of 2014 has been broken. Step by step, 
we are making progress. Patiently but relentlessly, we 
are restoring a place for hope.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
the 
European Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and 
Corporate Governance of Antigua and Barbuda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance and Corporate Governance of Antigua and 
Barbuda.
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister for Finance and Corporate Governance of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso 
Browne, Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and 
Corporate  Governance  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Browne  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  At  the 
outset,  I  wish  to  extend  heartiest  congratulations  to 
the  President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. Antigua and 
Barbuda looks forward to his leadership and guidance 
throughout  this  session.  I  also  offer  congratulations 
to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  John 
Ashe, on a job well done and on his unrelenting service 
to  the  United  Nations  community,  particularly  small 
island developing States.
I stand before the Assembly as, perhaps, the newest 
Head of Government at this sixty-ninth session of the 
General Assembly. The political party that I have the 
honour to lead was democratically and overwhelmingly 
elected as the Government of Antigua and Barbuda a 
little more than three months ago. I am probably also 
among  the  youngest  of  the  Heads  of  Government  at 
this  gathering.  However,  although  I  may  be  relatively 
young and my Government new, I have been a steadfast 
believer  in  the  value  of  the  United  Nations  from  the 
first  moment  of  my  adult  consciousness.  The  idea 
that  there  could  be  a  world  without  a  machinery  for 
leaders to gather in one place, with the single purpose 
of  improving  the  lives  of  all  humankind,  conjures 
up  images  of  chaos,  carnage  and  catastrophe  too 
frightening to contemplate. While some may argue that 
the United Nations has not always lived up to its noble 
purposes and that chaos, carnage and catastrophe have 
scarred our planet, I am profoundly aware that, without 
the  United  Nations,  the  viciousness  and  the  wounds 
would have been significantly worse.
40/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
However, even as I rejoice in the existence of the 
United Nations, I also lament that its largest and most 
powerful  nations  have  too  often  used  their  privileged 
positions to weaken the authority of the Organization in 
advancement of their own narrow interests. It has also 
been  a  grave  sadness  that  in  the  past  powerful  States 
have circumvented this body in pursuit of their national 
goals,  even  in  defiance  of  the  solidarity  of  the  larger 
family of nations.
For those reasons, my Government and the people 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  strongly  support  the  reform 
of  the  Organization.  We  would  like  to  see  reform 
that  democratizes  the  United  Nations  so  as  to  give  a 
greater  voice  to  those  countries,  such  as  mine,  that 
are  marginalized  in  decision-making  because  we  are 
considered too small to make a difference. We would 
also welcome a comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council  that  ends  the  anachronism  of  the  veto  power 
of the five permanent members — a system that has no 
legitimacy in fairness and in the global balance and that 
has often prevented the Security Council from acting in 
a manner that would command worldwide support and 
acclamation.
It  is  paradoxical  that  such  nations,  particularly 
those that most fiercely advocate respect for democracy 
and the rule of law, implement those principles at home 
but decline to implement them abroad. Respect for the 
rule of law and for the democratic principle that gives 
nations  rights  that  are  as  inalienable  as  those  of  the 
individual in powerful States must become integral to 
the  process  and  systems  of  governance  by  which  the 
world’s affairs are managed. Indeed, small States, such 
as mine, rely on the strength of the United Nations and 
on international respect for democracy and the rule of 
law to protect us from incursions on our sovereignty and 
disregard for our rights. Centuries ago, the philosopher 
Aristotle spoke a compelling truth when he said of the 
State:
“A State is not a mere society, having a common 
place,  established  for  the  prevention  of  mutual 
crime  and  for  the  sake  of  exchange  ...  Political 
society exists for the sake of noble actions, and not 
of mere companionship.”
Aristotle’s  observation  concerning 
the  State 
remains  valid  and  legitimate  in  today’s  international 
system of States, which the United Nations represents. 
Every  State  within  the  international  system  must 
recognize that noble action is one of the purposes of a 
political community.
In this regard, I draw the Assembly’s attention to 
the fact that 10 long years have passed since my small 
country,  with  a  population  of  under  100,000  and  an 
economy of $1.1 billion, received a favourable decision 
by  the  Dispute  Settlement  Body  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO) in a complaint against the United 
States, a nation of several hundred million inhabitants 
whose  economy  is  valued  in  the  trillions.  Despite  the 
favourable judgment, against which the losing party has 
appealed without success, the United States Government 
has not seen fit to perform the “noble action” of settling 
with  my  small  State  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the 
harm  done  to  our  economy.  My  country  has  been 
denied income that, had we continued to earn it, would 
have  contributed  significantly  to  the  welfare  of  my 
people, and to the capacity of our economy to cope with 
the  grave  effects  of  climate  change  and  the  financial 
crisis to which we became a casualty. I stress that when 
my  country  took  the  United  States  before  the  WTO’s 
Dispute Settlement Body, we did not do so as an act of 
hostility to a neighbour with whom we have enjoyed a 
long  and  friendly  relationship;  we  did  so  because  we 
had a duty to care for our people.
My small State was the victim of a trade violation. 
In good faith, we sought relief within the international 
system  and  the  democratic  principles  and  rule  of  law 
that it is meant to uphold. To be fair, the system delivered 
justice. But in so doing, its weakness was exposed when 
justice  could  not  be  enforced  because  the  powerful 
party that was found against would not settle with the 
small country that was injured. However, if democracy 
and the rule of law are to prevail in our international 
system,  they  have  to  be  upheld  and  respected  by  the 
powerful and cannot simply be imposed upon the weak. 
Otherwise,  there  will  be  resentment,  discontent  and 
possibly conflict.
in 
this  very  forum, 
Yesterday,  speaking 
the 
President  of  the  United  States,  Barack  Obama,  said 
that “right makes might... bigger nations should not be 
able  to  bully  smaller  ones”  (A/69/PV.6,  p.  11).  If  this 
universal truth is a guiding principle of his Government, 
then the United States cannot continue to approbate and 
reprobate on this principle. The noble thing is for the 
United States to settle this long-outstanding judgement 
fairly and expeditiously. In another context, but voicing 
a similar principle, President Obama said the following 
a year ago: 
14-54841
41/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
“[T]he principle of sovereignty is at the centre of 
our  international  order.  But  sovereignty  cannot 
be ... an excuse for the international community to 
turn a blind eye” (A/68/PV.5, p. 16). 
President  Obama  was  perfectly  right.  That  is  why  I 
believe he will agree that sovereignty and power should 
not  be  a  shield  against  the  fulfilment  of  obligations 
independently  assessed,  or  an  excuse  for  not  settling 
this very vexing issue.
I am sure that President Obama would also agree 
that  the  international  community  cannot  turn  a  blind 
eye  to  the  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba.  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  supports  the  preservation  of  the  sovereignty 
of every nation. We are very proud of our long-standing 
relationship  with  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  We  therefore 
join with the international community and condemn any 
discriminatory  and  retaliatory  policies  and  practices 
that  serve  to  prevent  Cuba  from  exercising  its  right 
to  freely  participate  in  the  affairs  of  the  hemisphere. 
My  Government  firmly  believes  that  any  application 
of  unilateral  and  extraterritorial  coercive  laws  and 
measures  that  conflict  with  international  law  and  the 
principles of free navigation and international trade is 
wrong. We therefore urge our long-standing friend, the 
United States, to respect and take note of the numerous 
calls  by  the  United  Nations  to  immediately  bring  an 
end to the unjust economic, commercial and financial 
blockade imposed on our neighbour Cuba.
My  small  country  has  no  military  might,  no 
economic clout. All that we have is membership of the 
international system as our shield and our voice in this 
body  as  our  sword.  That  is  why  we  will  continue  to 
uphold the value of the United Nations vigorously, and 
why we will join the effort for its reform to make it the 
guardian of all nations and all peoples.
I want to express my Government’s full agreement 
with  the  President’s  decision  to  make  the  theme  of 
this  General  Assembly  debate,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda.”  It  is  well  known  now  that  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  Gap  Task  Force  has  reported 
mixed  progress  in  the  achievement  of  key  targets. 
Among the targets on which there has been insufficient 
acceleration has been official development assistance. 
I  congratulate  those  countries  that  have  reached  the 
pledged target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income. 
However, the developed world is still not meeting the 
target  of  $315  billion.  Indeed,  it  is  not  even  reaching 
half that amount.
My  own  country  and  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) region as a whole have witnessed a decline 
in  bilateral  assistance  from  larger  and  richer  nations 
within  our  own  hemisphere,  and  we  have  relied  on 
non-traditional sources, such as the People’s Republic 
of  China  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela. 
In  regard  to  energy,  the  high  cost  of  which  cripples 
our  country,  the  Venezuelan  Petrocaribe  arrangement 
has been a lifebelt in a sea of turbulence. We are also 
grateful for the contributions of our other international 
partners, including the European Union. However, as we 
go forward, there is clearly a need for increased global 
engagement  with  respect  to  development  assistance, 
including the presence at the table of recipients as well 
as donors.
In addition — and as a most urgent matter — the 
international financial institutions must be urged to stop 
penalizing small Caribbean States on the basis of their 
flawed per capita income criterion. Our countries are 
denied access to concessional financing because we are 
classified  as  middle-income  countries.  This  obdurate 
attitude  of  the  international  financial  institutions  in 
not devising better criteria for assessing the eligibility 
of  our  small  economies  for  concessionary  financing, 
forces  us  into  the  commercial  lending  market.  The 
consequence of this is that our debt is rising and many 
of us are among the most highly indebted countries in 
the world on a per capita basis.
But I ask, “What is the alternative?” Rhetorically, 
I  ask  again,  “What  is  the  alternative?”  It  is  said  that 
six years after the global economy collapsed, jobs are 
being created, global financial systems have stabilized 
and people are once again being lifted out of poverty. 
But I say here this afternoon that this is not a universal 
truth. In the case of small States in the Caribbean, the 
global  economic  crisis  in  2008  in  whose  creation  we 
played no part, sent our economies into a tailspin. We 
have yet to recover fully from its impact, and we will 
probably never recover the development ground that we 
lost.  Incredibly,  a  significant  number  of  our  educated 
young people are unemployed. If we fail to satisfy their 
aspirations, we condemn them to a life on the margins of 
society at best, or a life of crime and violence at worst. 
No nation can opt for so devastating an alternative.
There  is  now  an  urgent  need  for  this  United 
Nations body, through one of its appropriate organs, to 
address the large debt that CARICOM countries have 
accumulated  owing  to  declining  aid,  poor  terms  of 
trade, the high cost of regulating financial services, and 
42/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
expenditure on curbing drug trafficking and stopping 
refugees.
Those  countries  in  the  Caribbean,  including  my 
own, that are now increasing their debt are not doing so 
because of poor policies or because we are not focused 
on increased productivity and growth, nor are we doing 
so because of high expenditures on vanity projects or 
unsustainable  ventures.  We  are  doing  so  to  build  the 
socioeconomic  infrastructure  to  facilitate  revenue 
generation.
investment 
foreign  direct 
The fact of the matter is that the global crisis that 
began in 2008 has set our economies back to pre-1974 
levels.  While  we  are  tightening  our  belts,  forging 
relations  with  the  private  sector  and  energetically 
seeking 
in  productive 
enterprises,  we  are  scraping  our  way  uphill,  having 
been pushed downwards by a deluge of external factors.
The  United  Nations  cannot  step  back  from  those 
realities, and it would be wrong, as it has been wrong 
for  some  time,  for  this  Organization  to  abdicate  its 
responsibility  for  action  to  multilateral  organizations 
whose membership is made up only of a few, however 
powerful they may be. Indeed, it is precisely because 
the members of those groups are powerful and because 
they  reach  into  a  network  of  economic  and  political 
decision-making  bodies  that  can  easily  impose  their 
will on the weak and vulnerable that the United Nations 
should not abandon its responsibilities to the weak, who 
depend on this Organization.
I cannot leave this rostrum without addressing the 
war on terror and the issue of the dreaded Ebola disease. 
The threat of Ebola requires a global response, and we 
urge  the  international  community  to  act  collectively 
and swiftly in combatting what could become a global 
pandemic with grave socio-economic consequences for 
small States, especially our fragile, tourism-dependent 
countries  in  the  Caribbean.  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
commends  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  for 
its pledge of $5 million towards Ebola eradication and 
the Republic of Cuba for sending 165 doctors. We call 
on  the  members  of  the  international  community  to 
continue to contribute towards that effort.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  condemns  the  savage  and 
cruel acts of the jihadists of the Islamic State, who have 
beheaded three civilians. On behalf of the Government 
and  people  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  I  express  our 
deepest  sympathy  to  the  families  of  the  victims  and 
to  the  people  of  the  United  States,  France  and  the 
United Kingdom for those atrocities. There can be no 
justification  for  such  barbaric  behaviour.  We  cannot 
afford a world that slips back into the dark ages when 
violence, wars and barbarism were the stock-and-trade 
of religious intolerance and ethnic divisions.
Yet, as we survey the global scene, there are deeply 
troubling instances of such behaviour in Europe, Africa 
and the Middle East. In all this, the role of the United 
Nations becomes critically important. What is required 
is not unilateral acts that will embroil specific nations 
in  cycles  of  violent  retaliation.  What  is  required  is  a 
United  Nations  whose  Member  States,  particularly 
those  on  the  Security  Council,  act  together  to  defend 
peace and security.
After  only  100  days  in  office,  my  Government 
has  demonstrated  its  commitment  to  building  an  all-
inclusive,  all-empowering  and  egalitarian  society  by 
promoting  the  protection  of  women’s  rights,  gender 
equality  and  the  rights  of  the  disabled.  We  see  those 
issues not only as human rights issues, but as essential 
components of sustainable development, peace, social 
justice and security. At our first session of Parliament, 
my Government ratified the Convention on the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities. We have gone further and 
have appointed a distinguished son of the soil, who is 
visually  challenged,  to  serve  as  our  representative  to 
the United Nations. We have also appointed a plethora 
of  women  to  serve  in  the  Upper  House  of  Parliament 
as  ambassadors  and  in  other  key  positions  within 
the  public  sector.  It  is  my  Government’s  pledge  to 
continue to work towards full gender equality and the 
advancement and empowerment of women.
When the President of the General Assembly opened 
the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth  session,  he  remarked  that 
“to  say  that  we  are  living  in  tumultuous  times  would 
seem an understatement” (A/69/PV.1, p. 3). He noted that 
the  entire  world  is  facing  challenges  such  as  poverty, 
hunger, climate change and rising sea levels, persistent 
unemployment,  armed  conflicts  and  the  Ebola  virus 
epidemic. He called on this global body to tackle those 
challenges  “with  dedication,  single-mindedness  of 
purpose and compromise” and “a sense of resolve and 
resilience” (ibid.) He was right to do so.
Crises  are  staring  human  civilization  in  the  face, 
including climate change, the Ebola virus and the threat 
posed  by  the  Islamic  State.  As  a  result,  we  all  face  a 
future  where  those  challenges  can  only  be  dealt  with 
through joint international action. The United Nations, 
14-54841
43/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
the parliament of parliaments, is the place where such 
joint action is to be decided and implemented. We need 
to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  capacity  for  such 
action, whether military or humanitarian. There is no 
substitute for the United Nations. Antigua and Barbuda 
pledges its continued support of and participation in the 
work of the United Nations.
General Ban Ki-moon in leading the Organization, in 
accordance  with  the  visions  and  ideas  derived  from 
the principles and purposes of the Charter, to maintain 
international peace and security and achieve its goals in 
a sustainable manner by confronting the kinds of risks 
and  challenges  engulfing  the  world,  whether  they  be 
chronic or recent.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Corporate  Governance  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Corporate  Governance 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak 
Al-Hamad Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the State 
of Kuwait
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak  Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak 
Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Sheikh  Al  Sabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  it  pleases  me  to  extend,  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  people  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  our 
sincere congratulations to the President of the General 
Assembly  and  to  his  friendly  country,  Uganda,  on 
his election as President of the Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session. We are certain that his vast experience 
in international affairs will enable him to conduct the 
deliberations of the Assembly at this session wisely and 
ably, and we wish him success in that endeavour. We 
also note with praise the successful manner in which his 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. John Ashe, conducted 
the deliberations during his presidency of the previous 
session.
In that regard, I would also like to pay tribute to the 
tremendous efforts exerted by His Excellency Secretary-
In its nearly 70 years of existence and service, the 
United  Nations  has  witnessed  increasing  challenges, 
as  represented  by  numerous  incidents  and  crises,  and 
has  overcome  exceptional  political  and  economic 
milestones. That has made it a haven and a destination 
for all the peoples and nations of the world, bestowed 
upon the Organization a wider scope of action to contain 
crises and given it a more significant role in reaching 
solutions and achieving further accomplishments.
However, 
the  deep-rooted  and  wide-ranging 
international transformations of the past few years have 
made  the  continuation  of  the  Organization,  based  on 
its  current  executive  mechanisms  and  administrative 
structures, an obstacle to achieving its historic mission. 
When  we  speak  of  change  for  the  better,  it  is  crucial 
to seek comprehensive reform by proposing scenarios 
and  solutions  aimed  at  reviving  the  Organization,  its 
organs and its specialized agencies in order to ensure 
the enhancement and development of their capacity to 
become more proactive, in line with modern times, and 
to deepen their understanding of the basic requirements 
of Member States.
Reform should start with the Security Council, as 
the organ entrusted with the maintaining international 
peace and security and the closest to reality; it is also 
the most effective and is already predisposed to measure 
its  accomplishments  according  to  its  mandates.  The 
State of Kuwait, which currently presides over the Arab 
Summit  and  coordinates  the  Arab  Group,  would  like 
to  stress  the  importance  of  thoroughly  and  carefully 
addressing  the  structural  flaws  in  the  composition 
of  the  Council,  in  particular  the  issue  of  expanding 
the  category  of  permanent  membership  by  ensuring 
permanent  Arab  representation  in  the  Council,  based 
on the demographic dimension of the Arab Members, 
whose  population  exceeds  350  million  and  whose 
number  increased  from  five  States  in  1945  to  22  at 
present. That represents nearly 12 per cent of the total 
number  of  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
addition to the fact that the issues relating to the Arab 
States and their region top the agenda of the Council.
44/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Several  countries  of  the  Middle  East  are  facing 
tremendous  security,  political  and  humanitarian 
challenges  and  an  exceptional  situation,  due  to  the 
inability  of  the  Security  Council  to  carry  out  its 
functions,  which  has  led  to  the  aggravation  and 
deterioration  of  the  situation  in  many  States  of  the 
region.  The  recent  Israeli  military  aggression  against 
the  Gaza  Strip  lasted  for  50  consecutive  days,  during 
which the non-stop killing and machine of destruction 
continuously 
targeted  everything  human,  mowing 
down  thousands  of  unarmed  civilians,  the  majority 
of  them  elderly,  women  and  children.  That  action 
appears to have been emblematic of the series of Israeli 
violations of the most basic rules of international law 
and  international  humanitarian  law,  and  constitutes 
yet  another  addition  to  its  bloody  history  of  rejecting 
all  regional  and  international  initiatives  to  lay  the 
foundations of a just and lasting peace.
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the 
ceasefire agreement signed on 26 August, as well as the 
international and regional initiatives undertaken to end 
to that crisis and aggression, primarily those promoted 
by our sister Arab Republic of Egypt. In that context, 
we renew our call on the Security Council to assume 
its  responsibility  to  provide  international  protection 
to the Palestinian people and territory, pursuant to the 
provisions  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  of  1949, 
and to compel Israel, the occupying Power, to halt its 
unilateral practices aimed at imposing a policy of faits 
accomplis, such as illegal settlements and the unlawful 
siege  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  in  addition  to  attempts  to 
change the demographic nature of Jerusalem by means 
of Judaization. Israel must be compelled to return to the 
negotiating table with a view to ending its occupation 
of all Palestinian and Arab lands, as well to achieve the 
establishment of a Palestinian State with East Jerusalem 
as its capital, in accordance with the relevant Security 
Council resolutions, the principle of land for peace, the 
road map and the Arab Peace Initiative.
As the crisis in Syria, now entering its fourth year, 
escalates into a bloodier phase, our concern about the 
potential regional and international repercussions of the 
failure of that State has given way to anxiety about the 
exacerbation of the cycle of violence, which has already 
claimed the lives of more than 190,000 people, created 
3  million  refugees  and  displaced  another  6  million 
people.  In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes 
Security  Council  resolution  2165  (2014)  on  opening 
new  border  crossings  to  deliver  aid  to  the  affected 
Syrian  people.  We  hope  that  all  concerned  will  pool 
their  efforts  to  ensure  the  swiftest  possible  delivery 
of humanitarian assistance to the Syrian people in the 
besieged  areas  and  throughout  Syrian  territory  and 
beyond.
In response to the ripple effects of that intensifying 
humanitarian  crisis,  the  State  of  Kuwait  hosted  two 
international  donor  conferences,  in  January  2013  and 
January 2014, to support the humanitarian situation in 
Syria.  Pledges  made  at  those  two  conferences  totaled 
$3.8 billion, of which the State of Kuwait contributed 
$800 million. That sum was delivered in its entirety to 
specialized United Nations agencies, as well as to other 
governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations 
concerned  with  humanitarian  affairs.  In  that  regard, 
we reiterate the importance of continued regional and 
international  efforts  to  reach  a  political  solution  that 
satisfies the aspirations of the Syrian people for a free 
and decent life, according to the Geneva communiqué, 
and that preserve Syria’s unity, security and stability.
With  respect  to  the  sisterly  Republic  of  Yemen, 
the  State  of  Kuwait,  as  the  current  chair  of  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  has  sought  within  its  mandate 
to establish peace and stability in Yemen, and to fulfil 
the  aspirations  of  its  people  for  development  and 
prosperity, in accordance with the Gulf States initiative 
and  its  executive  mechanism.  However,  tensions  due 
to the continued rivalry between some factions, along 
with  the  resulting  deterioration  in  the  security  and 
political  situations,  are  a  source  of  concern,  because 
of their potential negative impact on the future of the 
political  process  in  Yemen.  They  also  pose  a  threat 
to  the  country’s  unity  and  territorial  integrity.  We 
reiterate  our  full  support  for  enforcing  the  outcome 
of  the  national  dialogue  and  for  addressing  the  acts 
of  violence  and  terrorism  that  some  separatist  groups 
continue to provoke.
With respect to the situation in Libya, the State of 
Kuwait  renews  its  support  to  the  legitimately  elected 
Libyan Government, as an integral complement to the 
process of democratic transformation that will ensure 
the  security,  unity  and  territorial  integrity  of  Libya. 
The State of Kuwait also emphasizes the need for the 
international  community  and  the  Security  Council 
to  honour  their  commitments  by  fully  adhering  to 
resolution  2174  (2014),  in  order  to  guarantee  a  better 
future for Libya and its people.
14-54841
45/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
Within the same region, concerning Iran’s nuclear 
programme, the State of Kuwait supports the ongoing 
efforts to resolve that issue by peaceful means and in a 
manner that will guarantee the Islamic Republic of Iran 
and all the countries of the region the right to use nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes, under the supervision and 
monitoring of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA). We also emphasize the importance of reaching 
international agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme, 
based on full Iranian commitment to cooperating with 
the IAEA, implementing all relevant Security Council 
resolutions  and  enforcing  the  highest  standards  of 
safety and security in its nuclear facilities.
The  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its  principled  and 
firm rejection of all forms of terrorism and extremism, 
whatever  their  reasons,  motives  or  sources.  It  also 
believes  that  promoting  the  culture  of  tolerance  and 
coexistence  among  peoples  and  nations  should  be  a 
priority in its internal and external policies, which are 
derived from the tolerant teachings of Islamic Sharia. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  emphasizes  its  full  support  for 
all  international  efforts  to  combat  and  put  an  end  to 
the  terrorist  threats  facing  the  world,  which  aim  to 
undermine  the  elements  of  international  peace  and 
security.  Kuwait  welcomes  resolution  2178  (2014) 
adopted yesterday by the Security Council, reinforcing 
international  efforts  to  combat  terrorism  and  foreign 
fighters.
In that regard, we denounce the actions of the so-
called  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL),  as 
well as its terroristic practices and acts of aggression in 
parts of Iraqi and Syrian territory. We equally condemn 
ISIL’s grave violations of human rights and international 
humanitarian 
law.  We  reiterate  our  commitment 
to  support  the  efforts  and  endeavours  of  the  Iraqi 
Government  to  overcome  the  destructive  scourge  of 
terrorism that currently threatens its security, stability 
and territorial integrity and that is adversely and clearly 
affecting the political process in that country.
The giant leap represented by new communications 
technologies,  thanks  to  which  the  United  Nations  has 
been  able  to  expand  the  reach  of  its  lofty  message, 
has  also  increased  the  complexity  of  monitoring 
and  assessing  the  fast-paced  global  environment,  as 
well  as  handling  its  output  and  consequences.  The 
aggregate expertise and experience represented in our 
Organization at the professional, technical and political 
levels  is  embodied  in  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2). The Declaration’s clearly 
identified  priorities  and  simple  terms  have  played  a 
major  and  significant  role  in  improving  the  lives  of 
millions  of  people  in  many  regions  of  the  world.  The 
Declaration has also set an example by demonstrating 
the 
international 
work,  through  cooperation  and  coordination  among 
Governments,  and  the  promotion  of  the  role  of  civil 
society organizations and the private sector.
importance  of  partnership 
in 
By  drawing  on  modern  technology  and  scientific 
advances, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
have  provided  the  peoples  and  nations  of  the  world 
with  renewed  hope  for  creating  a  better  world,  and 
have  created  an  incentive  to  achieve  them.  The 
Organization  has  encouraged  Member  States 
to 
devise  a  comprehensive  and  ambitious  post-2015 
development  plan  with 
sustainable  development 
in  all  three  dimensions  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental  —  at  its  core.  That  plan  will  address 
new  dangers  and  challenges  and  anticipate  future 
conditions, which will be different from those we face 
today.
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the 
Climate  Summit  that  the  Secretary-General  convened 
two  days  ago,  and  reiterates  that  climate  change  has 
negative repercussions on development throughout the 
world and in the Arab region in particular. There is a 
clear need for international action and solidarity within 
the  framework  of  the  sustainable  development  goals, 
according to the principle of shared but differentiated 
responsibility,  in  order  to  guarantee  that  all  States 
benefit  equally  from  the  new  agenda.  In  that  regard, 
special  attention  and  treatment  should  be  provided  to 
the  developing  countries,  which  are  the  States  most 
adversely affected by climate change.
Since  winning  its  independence  and  joining  the 
global  Organization,  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  never 
been  far  removed  from  the  crises  and  challenges 
facing  the  world.  Our  founding  fathers  defined  a 
purely  humanitarian  approach  to  helping  the  needy 
and restoring hope to those who have lost it, bypassing 
the  traditional  bases  for  giving,  which  were  largely 
rooted in geographic location, ethnic origin or political 
affiliation.  Their  sons  have  followed  that  approach, 
giving  greater  priority 
trends 
through the pillars that define our foreign policy. That 
commitment rests on devising and developing methods 
for providing assistance and aid to the majority of the 
world’s  countries  by  promoting  activities  that  would 
support the message of the United Nations in creating 
to  contemporary 
46/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
a  world  in  which  security  and  stability  prevail,  and 
people live in peace and prosperity.
loans  and 
The  establishment  in  1961  of  the  Kuwait  Fund 
for  Arab  Economic  Development  was  an  expression 
of the sincere desire of the State of Kuwait to support 
the  development  efforts  of  Arab  States  and  friendly 
countries  by  providing  soft 
technical 
assistance. In pursuing that approach, and in order to 
show its keen interest in supporting the humanitarian 
role  of  the  United  Nations,  the  State  of  Kuwait  has 
doubled  the  amount  of  its  fixed  annual  voluntary 
contributions  to  a  number  of  international  agencies 
and organizations, including its recent donation to the 
World Health Organization to combat the spread of the 
Ebola virus in West Africa, giving wider horizons and 
broader reach to the humanitarian work of the State of 
Kuwait.
Our wide-ranging diplomatic efforts at the regional 
and  international  levels,  led  by  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Amir  of  the 
State of Kuwait, were recognized by the international 
community  with  an  exceptional  and  unprecedented 
international  honour  when 
the  Secretary-General 
presented His Highness with a certificate of appreciation 
in recognition of the outstanding role in humanitarian 
leadership  played  by  His  Highness,  the  Government 
and the people of the State of Kuwait in saving the lives 
of millions of people.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
State of Kuwait adheres to the multilateral international 
system,  as  well  as  to  the  principles  and  purposes  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Kuwait  believes 
in  the  critical  importance  of  furthering  all  efforts  to 
ensure  the  continuity  of  our  venerable  Organization 
by  ensuring  that  all  States  fulfil  their  responsibilities 
and  commitments  under  international  conventions 
and conferences in order to help find just and lasting 
solutions to global threats and challenges, and to reach 
the loftier goal of maintaining international peace and 
security.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Kuwait for the statement just made.
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Victor-Viorel Ponta, Prime 
Minister of Romania
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Romania.
Mr.  Victor-Viorel  Ponta,  Prime  Minister  of 
Romania, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Victor-Viorel  Ponta, 
Prime Minister of Romania, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Ponta  (Romania):  It  is  a  great  honour  for 
me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  today  on  behalf 
of  the  Romanian  delegation.  At  the  outset,  allow  me 
to  congratulate  the  Honourable  Sam  Kutesa  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth session and to assure him of the full support 
of  the  Romanian  delegation  in  fulfilling  his  high 
responsibility and functions.
(spoke in French)
As  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  honour  to 
participate  in  this  high-level  debate,  let  me  reaffirm 
my country’s peaceful mission as a promoter of peace 
and  international  security,  the  values  of  democracy, 
the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights.  The 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/69/1) over the past year again confirms 
that  cooperation  among  Member  States,  based  on 
the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  a  spirit 
of  solidarity,  can  meet  the  current  challenges  of  our 
peoples.
I  would  like  to  address  some  issues  of  interest  to 
my country in regard to developments in international 
relations. Since the General Assembly’s general debate 
a  year  ago,  the  area  of  international  security  has 
witnessed the most complex and serious developments 
since the end of the cold war. In that context, we have 
a duty to reaffirm our commitment to the principles of 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries, 
the  non-use  of  force  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
all  problems  between  States,  in  accordance  with 
international law.
(spoke in English)
One of the crises of utmost concern to my country 
is  the  current  situation  in  Ukraine,  given  its  impact 
on  the  security  of  the  countries  in  Eastern  Europe. 
The  crisis  started,  as  the  Assembly  knows,  with  the 
14-54841
47/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
unilateral  annexation  of  Crimea,  an  integral  part  of 
the  sovereign  State  of  Ukraine.  That  action  on  the 
European continent, unprecedented in recent decades, 
was  followed  by  an  internal  conflict  in  the  eastern 
regions  of  Ukraine,  generated  by  forces  pursuing 
separatist goals. I wish to reconfirm our clear and firm 
national  position  on  the  crisis  in  Ukraine.  Romania 
rejects  any  form  of  external  pressure  on  States  in 
Eastern Europe with aspirations to achieve integration 
with  Europe.  Romania  firmly  supports  the  territorial 
integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and all countries. 
A strong, united and sovereign Ukraine, committed to 
its European path and to reforms in the economic and 
political fields, is in the best interests of Europe and the 
whole world.
The international community has been involved in 
finding a solution to the crisis from its beginning. We 
commend the United Nations for its constant presence in 
the field and the efforts of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe to monitor the day-by-day 
developments on the ground and to support the whole 
international effort through its specific mechanisms.
For  many  years,  all  countries  of  Eastern  Europe 
and  the  Black  Sea  region  have  shared  and  openly 
declared the common goals of peace and cooperation. 
But instability and grave security concerns, such as in 
Ukraine, in Transdnistria, Ossetia and Abkhazia, and 
now  in  Donetsk,  continue  to  pose  obstacles  to  those 
goals.  We  must  condemn  aggression.  We  should  not 
lose  trust  in  the  rule  of  international  law.  We  should 
not  lose  faith  in  the  benefits  of  cooperation,  and  we 
should  all  strive  to  prevent  a  spillover  of  the  current 
crisis.  The  region  has  always  been  a  bridge  between 
Central  Asia  and  Europe.  At  this  juncture,  we  have 
a  historical  responsibility  to  assume,  protect  and 
preserve  the  potential  for  collaboration,  cooperation 
and development in that part of Europe.
Situated at the crossroads of the Danube and Black 
Sea  regions,  as  well  as  serving  as  a  bridge  between 
Northern  Europe  and  the  Balkans,  Romania  is  fully 
aware  that  regional  cooperation  is  key  for  ensuring 
regional  stability,  for  building  confidence  and  for 
promoting  the  universal  principles  and  values  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Joint initiatives on the 
economy, environment, infrastructure and cross-border 
cooperation have a long-term impact on all countries in 
our region. As a European Union member, Romania is 
an  active  contributor  to  the  European  Union  Strategy 
for the Danube Region, to the Black Sea Synergy and to 
the South-East European Cooperation Process.
We praise the solidarity expressed by the European 
Union  and  transatlantic  partners  in  supporting  a 
sustainable path for democracy and development in the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Ukraine  and  Georgia,  assisting 
them  to  freely  achieve  their  European  aspirations. 
It  was  75  years  ago,  based  on  the  infamous  Molotov-
Ribbentrop Pact, that parts of Romania and some other 
independent States were dismantled. We have learned 
that history must not be an excuse for justifying actions 
against other countries. On the contrary, our answer to 
any temptation based on past history is strong support 
for  democratic  development,  respect  for  the  right  to 
democratically  choose  one’s  future,  and  respect  for 
international law.
I  want  to  state  that  position  clearly,  on  behalf  of 
my country, as an expression of our democratic identity 
and  responsible  conduct  in  our  relations  with  all  our 
neighbours,  and  when  speaking  about  the  democratic 
future  of  all  the  countries  in  those  regions,  including 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Ukraine  and  Georgia.  The 
desire  to  turn  the  extended  Black  Sea  region  into  an 
area of peace, stability and prosperity should continue 
to guide our cooperation. We express our support, one 
again, for a democratic, secure and stable region, and 
we  encourage  our  regional  and  international  partners 
to  broaden  our  solidarity  with  Ukraine,  Moldova  and 
Georgia.
A source of concern to all of us is the multiplication 
of  political,  security  and  strategic  challenges  in  the 
southern neighbourhood of the European Union and in 
the  Middle  East.  The  proliferation  of  radical  Islamist 
movements and the emergence of new groups, such as 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS), have led 
to  an  enhanced  terrorist  threat.  They  represent  a  new 
breed  of  terrorism,  which  threatens  to  destabilize  the 
entire Middle East and the world. ISIS goes beyond Iraq 
and Syria, and therefore represents a major challenge to 
the  international  order  and  must  be  dealt  with  by  all 
States.  We  must  all  stand  united  and  fight  terrorism 
wherever it arises. I want to express my country’s firm 
support for building solidarity in confronting this new 
challenge.
In  the  field  of  development,  we  believe  that  the 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  crucial 
for 
the  post-2015  sustainable 
development  agenda,  which  will  guide  our  actions  in 
the  preparation  of 
48/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
coming  decades.  As  a  member  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  Romania 
made its contribution to that very important process, in 
accordance with the decisions taken at United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. Our national 
vision of the future goals was adopted by the Government 
of Romania in December 2013, and we are pleased to 
see that our areas of interest are reflected in the report 
of the Open Working Group (see A/67/941). The future 
development agenda should address poverty eradication 
and sustainable development, good governance and the 
rule of law. However, it should also provide a platform 
for social inclusion and the reduction of unemployment, 
giving  our  present  and  future  generations  of  young 
people confidence and hope.
The President returned to the Chair.
Over  the  past  year,  the  number  of  people  in  need 
of  humanitarian  assistance,  especially  the  number  of 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  has  grown 
to  unprecedented  levels.  We  commend  and  support 
the assistance provided to those persons by the United 
Nations system in close cooperation with international 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
international  donors.  Despite  our  limited  financial 
resources,  we  have  made  efforts  to  contribute  to  the 
process of assisting refugees.
In that respect, I would like to mention the activities 
of the emergency transit centre in Timisoara, Romania, 
established  by  the  Romanian  Government,  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
and the International Organization for Migration. The 
centre, the first of its kind in the world, has proved to be a 
feasible mechanism offering safety to persons in urgent 
need  of  international  protection,  thereby  becoming  a 
practical  expression  of  the  human  security  concept. 
That contribution reflects the responsible conduct that 
Romania has always adopted in facing global challenges. 
We will continue to contribute to international efforts 
with  the  same  dedication  and  responsibility  as  our 
troops and civil experts have already shown in several 
areas, such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo, or places 
in Africa.
(spoke in French)
The year 2014 has particular resonance for Romania 
and  brings  us  closer  to  our  national  centennial, 
which  we  will  celebrate  in  2018.  In  1989,  Romanians 
chose  democracy  and  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  We  encountered  difficulties, 
but our resolve led us to a successful transition.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  firm 
and  continuing  commitment  to  the  Organization  and 
the Charter of the United Nations and their governing 
values   and principles. Romania will continue to uphold 
international  law  and  the  principle  of  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts, while promoting human rights 
in order to achieve prosperity for all.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Romania for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Victor-Viorel  Ponta,  Prime  Minister  of 
Romania, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Tony Abbott, Prime Minister of 
the Commonwealth of Australia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  Mr.  Tony  Abbott,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Commonwealth of Australia.
Mr.  Tony  Abbott,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Commonwealth  of  Australia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Tony  Abbott,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Commonwealth  of  Australia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Abbott  (Australia):  In  what  can  seem  to  be 
darkening  times,  I  want  to  begin  with  a  message  of 
hope.  Amid  all  our  problems,  the  murderous  rage  of 
the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  in  Syria  and 
Iraq,  Russian  aggression  in  Ukraine,  the  spread  of 
Ebola in West Africa and the stubborn sluggishness of 
many economies, let me start with a small but telling 
illustration  of  nations  working  together  to  serve  our 
common  humanity.  Last  March,  at  the  height  of  the 
search for the missing Flight MH-70, I went to the Pearce 
airbase  in  Western  Australia  to  thank  all  the  aviators 
involved.  There  were  personnel  from  Australia,  New 
Zealand, Malaysia and the United States  — countries 
that  are  accustomed  to  working  together.  There  were 
also personnel from China, Japan and Korea — countries 
whose relations sometimes labour under the weight of 
historical grievances.
14-54841
49/51
A/69/PV.9 
25/09/2014
On  that  occasion,  however,  the  tragedy  and  a 
daunting  challenge  drew  out  the  best  in  everyone. 
The  Organization  was  founded  on  the  principle  that 
we  should  work  together  for  the  common  good  and 
that, over time, talking together and working together 
will  improve  our  capacity  for  living  together.  Like 
any  institution,  the  United  Nations  is  an  imperfect 
instrument. Still, it is better than “might is right”, and 
it gives good arguments the best chance to prevail.
Despite  faults  and  failures,  the  United  Nations 
has worked for peace and progress for nearly 70 years. 
Australia  has  been  proud  to  play  its  part,  starting  in 
1946, when we held the first presidency of the Security 
Council and helped to draft the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights. At the heart of the Organization is the 
principle that we should act towards others as we would 
have  them  act  towards  us.  For  almost  seven  decades, 
Australia  has  believed  in  the  potential  of  the  United 
Nations and supported its work. Keeping commitments, 
valuing human life, protecting property and extending 
freedom are universal aspirations, not only Australian 
ones.
Since  1947,  we  have  provided  more  than  65,000 
personnel  to  more  than  50  multilateral  peace  and 
security operations. We are not a country accustomed to 
turning back, once we have put our hand to the plough. 
We have had Blue Beret personnel in the Middle East 
since 1956 and in Cyprus since 1964. When leadership 
is  needed,  we  step  up,  as  we  did  in  Bougainville, 
in  Timor-Leste  and  in  Solomon  Islands.  In  Korea, 
Cambodia,  Kuwait  and  Afghanistan  and  in  Somalia, 
Sierra  Leone  and  other  troubled  places,  Australians 
have lent a hand under the United Nations banner. We 
have  only  21  personnel  in  South  Sudan  now  but  have 
conducted an airlift of equipment that has supported a 
much larger force.
With just 24 million people, Australia is a relatively 
small  country,  but  we  have  the  world’s  twelfth- 
largest  economy,  with  global  interests  and  with  some 
global  reach.  We  are  strong  enough  to  be  useful  but 
pragmatic enough to know our limits. Under successive 
Governments,  for  more  than  100  years,  Australia’s 
determination  has  been  to  advance  our  interests, 
to  protect  our  citizens  and  to  uphold  our  values. 
We  have  never  believed  that  we  can  save  the  world 
single-handedly, nor have we shrunk from shouldering 
our responsibilities. After the 2004 East Asian tsunami, 
we committed $1 billion to Indonesia. We were one of 
the first countries to arrive with help in Japan after the 
2011 earthquake and in the Philippines after the 2013 
typhoon.
To  date,  we  have  pledged  $8  million  towards 
combating the Ebola outbreak, and dozens of Australian 
health  professionals  are  working  with  international 
agencies in the region. To us, this is all part of being a 
good global citizen. Last July, we were pleased to sponsor 
Security  Council  resolution  2166  (2014)  and  to  work 
with  the  Dutch  and  the  Malaysians  to  investigate  the 
crash site and recover our dead, after Malaysia Airlines 
Flight MH-17 was shot down by Russian-backed rebels 
over eastern Ukraine. We are grateful for the help that 
Ukraine  gave  us,  and  are  naturally  sympathetic  to  a 
country  struggling  to  preserve  its  independence  and 
territorial integrity against a bully. With the Dutch and 
the Malaysians, we will do everything we can to ensure 
that  the  investigation  is  not  undermined,  and  that  the 
crime is not covered up, because that is our duty to the 
38 Australians murdered in this atrocity.
Right now, an Australian force has been deployed 
to  the  Middle  East,  so  that  we  can  join  a  coalition 
seeking  to  disrupt  and  degrade  the  Islamic  State  of 
Iraq and the Levant terrorist movement at the request 
of  the  Iraqi  Government.  One  of  our  prime  ministers 
once  talked  about  our  country’s  great  objective,  “our 
light on the hill,” as he put it, namely, to work for the 
betterment of mankind, not just at home, but wherever 
we  can  lend  a  helping  hand.  To  build  a  better  world, 
we need to respond sensibly to the problems before us, 
whether  through  bodies  such  as  the  United  Nations, 
or  in  coalitions  with  like-minded  countries.  We  also 
need to work purposefully to create stronger and more 
resilient people and communities. A stronger economy 
will not solve every problem, but it will make almost 
every  problem  easier  to  tackle.  Richer  people  are  not 
necessarily  better  people,  but  the  problems  of  plenty 
are invariably easier to deal with than those of want.
As  this  year’s  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-
20), Australia is determined to promote private-sector-
led  growth:  growth,  because  that  is  the  best  way 
to  generate  jobs  and  improve  everyone’s  quality  of 
life;  private-sector-led,  because  profitable,  private 
businesses  are  the  best  source  of  real,  sustainable 
wealth. Freer trade, more investment in infrastructure, 
a  modern  and  fair  international  tax  system,  stronger 
global  economic  institutions  and  a  more  resilient 
financial  sector  are  all  parts  of  our  G-20  agenda  to 
strengthen the world economy.
50/51 
14-54841
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.9
Rather  than  preaching,  we  are  trying  to  lead  by 
example.  Australia  has  abolished  the  carbon  tax  and 
the  mining  tax,  and  we  have  provided  environmental 
approvals  for  $800  billion  worth  of  new  projects.  We 
have  also  begun  the  task  of  eliminating  our  budget 
deficit within four years. We have finalized a series of 
trade deals, because every time a country trades with 
another, wealth increases, and when wealth increases, 
countries  grow  stronger.  Our  G-20  goal  is  to  boost 
output by an extra 2 per cent over the next five years 
to  create  millions  of  jobs  and  to  generate  trillions  in 
wealth right around the world.
Likewise, 
the  post-2015  development  agenda 
should also focus on economic growth, because growth 
makes  every  other  social  goal,  even  tackling  climate 
change,  easier  to  accomplish.  To  people  who  do  not 
know  where  their  next  meal  is  coming  from,  talk  of 
economic growth can seem ignorant or indulgent. But 
“economic growth” is really just economists’ shorthand 
for more jobs, higher pay, new industries and the better 
life  that  only  greater  wealth  can  provide.  Economic 
growth  might  seem  a  mundane  vision,  but  it  allows 
millions more people to create their own vision of how 
their lives can be better.
To  anyone  who  doubts  that  stronger  economic 
growth can be achieved, I say, “Look at the countries 
of  East  Asia”.  In  scarcely  two  generations,  the  rise 
of  Asia  has  driven  the  greatest  social  and  economic 
transformation in history. People live longer, they are 
better educated, wealthier and, yes, they enjoy a level 
of  freedom  and  stability  that  their  parents  could  only 
dream of. In Japan, Korea and now China, in India and 
increasingly  in  Indonesia,  many  hundreds  of  millions 
of people have been lifted from poverty to the middle 
class. Almost certainly, that is the greatest and fastest 
advance in human welfare of all time.
While all Governments, Australia’s included, could 
always  be  better,  smarter  and  more  compassionate, 
no  one  should  be  blind  to  the  great  progress  that  has 
occurred. We live in the most remarkable age in human 
history.  For  all  the  work  that  remains  to  be  done,  we 
have seen more change for the better than at any other 
time.
As  the  General  Assembly  session  meets  with 
such  pressing  issues  before  it,  our  challenge  —  as 
always — is to realize our best hopes and to be our best 
selves.  Australians  have  two  defining  characteristics: 
we  believe  in  a  “fair  go”,  because  innate  decency 
demands that every person have a chance to contribute. 
We  also  believe  in  “having  a  go”,  because  rolling  up 
your  sleeves  will  always  produce  a  better  result  than 
standing on the sidelines complaining. That readiness 
to  make  an  effort  for  a  good  cause  is  why  Australia 
feels  so  comfortable  in  this  body  and  is  so  ready  to 
contribute to its work. We should put no limits on what 
we can achieve, especially when we work together, trust 
people and are faithful to our deepest values.
Every  country  counts.  Every  argument  must  be 
weighed.  Every  person  has  equal  rights  and  dignity. 
Every person deserves respect. All people are entitled 
to  make  their  own  choices  —  provided  they  do  not 
infringe on the rights of others. Those are the principles 
that  this  Organization  embodies  and  on  which  the 
future of humanity rests.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth 
of Australia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Tony  Abbott,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Commonwealth of Australia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3.20 p.m.
14-54841
51/51
