United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
50th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 12 November 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Baaro 
(Kiribati), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Agenda item 119 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
Mr. Thoms (Germany): Let me begin by commending 
the  President  of  the  Assembly,  Ambassador  Kutesa, 
on  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Jamaica,  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  as  the 
new  facilitator  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We are confident that his choice, a result of thorough 
consultations,  will  lead  to  substantial  progress  in  the 
negotiation  process.  We  assure  Ambassador  Rattray 
that  we  stand  ready  to  collaborate  closely  with  him, 
unified  in  our  desire  for  a  results-oriented  process  to 
bring about reform of the Security Council. At the same 
time, I would like to extend my gratitude to Ambassador 
Tanin, who has dedicated so much energy to bringing 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  the  point  they 
have reached today.
I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  Ambassador  Patriota  of  Brazil  (see 
A/69/PV.49) on behalf of the Group of Four countries 
and  would  like  to  add  the  following  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
Speaking  of  the  efforts  and  achievements  so 
far,  Germany  considers  the  non-paper  developed  by 
former  President  of  the  General  Assembly  John  Ashe 
and  his  advisory  group  to  be  a  crucial  document,  as 
it  summarizes  the  various  positions  of  the  different 
groups  on  this  issue  and  constitutes  one  possible 
text-based  foundation  for  our  negotiations  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
After  a  lengthy  exchange  of  positions,  the  time 
has  come  to  finally  translate  rhetoric  into  actual 
negotiations and make real progress on Security Council 
reform. The necessity is evident. All of us acknowledge 
the need to overcome the deadlock that has caused us 
so  much  frustration  and  suffering  for  the  people  who 
turn to the Security Council for help. However, it is our 
responsibility not only to name the problem, but also to 
dissect it and solve it. Let me mention a few decisive 
points.
First  of  all,  the  demand  for  an  ex-ante  consensus 
text,  before  negotiations  have  even  started,  will  not 
lead  to  any  results.  That  is  not  in  line  with  the  usual 
United  Nations  working  methods  and  has  caused  the 
continued stalemate in the reform process thus far. All 
transparent and output-orientated negotiations require 
a  negotiation  text.  We  are  completely  open  regarding 
the content of such a text. We sincerely hope that the 
President will present such a text as a starting point for 
the next intergovernmental negotiations.
Directing our view beyond the deadlock on Syria 
and  Ukraine,  we  feel  that  the  necessity  to  reform  the 
Security  Council  remains  obvious  and  that  reform  is 
long overdue. The Council is far from representing the 
geopolitical realities of the twenty-first century.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-62341 (E)
*1462341*
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
The legitimate demand of a majority of nations for 
an  equitable  geographical  distribution  in  the  Security 
Council represents one major pillar of the Group of Four 
(G4)  proposal.  There  have  been  various  attempts  by 
different groups to improve the work of the Council so 
far, and we welcome, for example, the constructive work 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
Group  to  reform  working  methods.  In  addition,  the 
French-Mexican  proposal  on  limiting  the  use  of  the 
veto in cases of mass atrocities received major support 
across  regional  groups  and  underlined  the  undeniable 
necessity to reform the Council. However, the attempt to 
overcome the current paralysis of the Security Council 
by  merely  reforming  its  working  methods  without  a 
real, structural reform cannot succeed.
The President took the Chair.
The United Nations seventieth anniversary in 2015 
will be an historic opportunity. The anniversary marks 
50 years since the first and last Security Council reform, 
20 years since the beginning of the reform debate and 
the  establishment  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
on  the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and 
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council and, 
most  importantly,  10  years  since  the  Heads  of  States 
and  Government,  at  the  2005  World  Summit,  called 
for  an  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  our 
obligation to live up to those expectations.
Germany,  together  with  its  G4  partners,  will 
give its utmost to reinvigorate the process in order to 
achieve a tangible outcome by the end of next year. We 
call upon all reform-oriented countries to join us in that 
endeavour.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea): At the outset, let me begin by expressing our 
appreciation to you, Sir, for convening this meeting on 
such an important issue. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
delegation aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the representative of Iran (see A/69/PV.49) on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  task  of  reforming,  without  further  delay,  the 
Security  Council,  which  has  the  primary  mission 
of  guaranteeing  international  peace  and  security, 
is  pressing.  Recently 
the  high-handedness  and 
arbitrariness of the super-Power in the Security Council 
has  reached  an  extreme  level,  directly  threatening 
the  peace,  security  and  independence  of  sovereign 
States.  The  Security  Council’s  wrong  handling  of  the 
extremely dangerous situation on the Korean peninsula 
is a typical example.
Today, the Korean peninsula holds a crucial place 
in  guaranteeing  peace  and  security  in  Asia.  There 
is  now  on  the  Korean  peninsula  a  vicious  cycle  of 
aggravated tension, which is increasingly jeopardizing 
the peace. However, the Security Council has failed to 
even  properly  determine  the  cause  of  the  tension,  not 
to  mention  its  failure  to  find  an  appropriate  solution 
for  the  tense  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The 
fundamental causes of the vicious cycle of tension on the 
Korean peninsula are none other than the hostile policy 
of  the  United  States  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, as well as the United States-South 
Korea  joint  military  exercises,  which  are  aimed  at 
provocations, such as the occupation of Pyongyang, the 
capital of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Nevertheless, the Security Council is intentionally 
turning  a  blind  eye  to  the  aggressive  war  games 
and  nuclear  threat  of  the  United  States  against  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and chooses to 
make an issue of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea’s unavoidable choice to cope with those threats. 
In particular, the Security Council is still avoiding the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  demand  for 
the  consideration  of  the  matter  of  the  United  States-
South Korea joint military exercises as an agenda item 
of the Security Council. If the Security Council wants 
to fulfil its mission of maintaining international peace 
and  security,  it  should  make  an  issue  of  the  United 
States-South Korea joint military exercises.
The  impartiality  of  the  Security  Council  and  its 
competence  —  that  is,  whether  it  can  contribute  to 
global peace and security or not — will be judged by 
its  attitude  on  the  matter  of  the  United  States-South 
Korea  joint  military  exercises.  If  the  situation  on  the 
Korean  peninsula  becomes  unexpectedly  grave,  the 
responsibility will lie fully with the United States, which 
has  forced  the  inevitable  choice  upon  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, as well as with the Security 
Council, which has taken the side of the United States.
Today’s  reality  shows  the  urgency  of  Security 
Council 
community 
unanimously demands reform of the Security Council 
so  that  it  can  serve  as  the  United  Nations  organ  that 
genuinely  contributes 
international  peace  and 
security.  All  Member  States  should  demonstrate  their 
political  will  by  taking  practical  measures.  First, 
reform.  The 
international 
to 
2/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
the  Security  Council  should  be  reformed  in  order  to 
maintain impartiality, objectivity and democracy in its 
activities. The Council should disapprove of the high-
handedness and arbitrariness of a few specific countries 
and ensure openness, transparency and non-selectivity 
in  all  its  activities.  In  particular,  we  should  consider 
establishing  a  strict  mechanism  whereby  the  General 
Assembly would decide whether the Security Council’s 
resolutions and decisions relating to international peace 
and  security,  such  as  sanctions  and  the  use  of  force, 
should take effect. Secondly, the Security Council should 
be reformed in order to increase the representation of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  member  States  and  other 
developing countries in its membership.
Although  nearly  70  years  have  passed  since  the 
foundation  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  member  States  and  other  developing 
countries, which make up the majority of 193 Member 
States  of  the  United  Nations,  are  not  adequately 
represented  on  the  Security  Council.  At  present,  the 
prospect  of  increasing  the  permanent  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  is  not  bright,  owing  to  serious 
disagreements  between 
individual  countries  and 
regional  groups.  Therefore,  the  only  viable  solution 
to address the unbalanced and unreasonable structure 
of  the  Security  Council  is  to  proceed  with  increasing 
the number of the non-permanent seats in the Security 
Council.
As far as the increase in the permanent membership 
of  the  Security  Council  is  concerned,  the  delegation 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  makes 
its  principled  position  clear  once  again  that  Japan  is 
totally  unqualified  to  be  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  under  any  circumstances.  Japan 
continues to deny its extraordinary war crimes against 
humanity, such as massacre, plundering and invasions 
of  neighbouring  countries  in  the  past  century,  which 
placed Japan in the shameful category of enemy State 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  is  convinced  that  the  current  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  will  take  practical  measures  for 
Security Council reform.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): At the outset, allow me to 
thank you, Sir, for convening this important debate on 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters.  My  delegation  also  wishes  to  associate  itself 
with the statement made by the representative of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/69/PV.49).
At this juncture, Malaysia would like to congratulate 
Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray  of  Jamaica  on  his 
recent appointment as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  trust  that  his  wise  leadership  and 
experience,  as  seen  in  his  stewardship  of  the  First 
Committee,  will  steer  us  forward  in  our  negotiations 
towards  a  more  equitable  and  representative  Security 
Council. 
My  delegation  also  expresses  our  deepest 
appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin, for his diligence and leadership in presiding over 
the intergovernmental negotiations since 2008.
As  an  incoming  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  2015-2016  term,  Malaysia  is 
deeply  interested  in  efforts  to  shape  a  more  efficient 
Security Council. We were elected by the overwhelming 
majority of Member States to that important body, and 
we take this opportunity to again thank all delegations 
for  their  support.  At  the  same  time,  we  recognize 
that  their  voices  need  to  be  heard  and  their  interests 
recognized.
Based  on  the  many  views  we  heard  during  the 
tenth round of the intergovernmental negotiations, the 
abundant  interest  of  Member  States  is  clear.  There  is 
a  serious  demand  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
That  is  not  a  new  demand,  nor  is  it  unique.  It  has 
been  reiterated  time  and  again,  yet  it  has  remained 
unanswered.
In  that  regard,  Sir,  we  are  encouraged  by  your 
opening statement during this year’s high-level debate 
in the General Assembly (see A/69/PV.6). You rightly 
called  for  more  progress  on  Security  Council  reform, 
relating  that  to  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution 60/1). Your letter dated 10 November further 
reaffirmed your commitment to the process, when you 
stated that an early resumption of the intergovernmental 
negotiations was necessary and appointed Ambassador 
Rattray as its new Chair.
We  are  therefore  reminded  of  the  efforts  of  one 
of  your  predecessors,  Ambassador  Razali  Ismail 
of  Malaysia,  who  was  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  fifty-first  session.  In  1997,  he 
introduced  the  first-ever  comprehensive  proposal  for 
Security Council reform, dubbed the “Razali proposal”, 
as contained in document A/AC.247/1997/CRP.1. In the 
days  before  we  had  intergovernmental  negotiations 
14-62341
3/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
and  advisory  groups,  Ambassador  Razali  took  it 
upon  himself  to  come  up  with  that  formulation,  after 
consultations with over 165 delegations and groupings.
While  that  attempt  was  ultimately  unsuccessful, 
it  has  since  been  recognized  by  many  as  the  attempt 
closest  to  achieving  progress  in  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  The  Razali  proposal  did  manage  to 
encapsulate  the  various  aspects  of  Security  Council 
reform, in particular the expansion in the membership 
and improved transparency in its working methods. It 
also  succeeded  in  providing  food  for  thought,  which 
has,  perhaps,  influenced  our  current  deliberations. 
That  bold  initiative  continues  to  inspire  Malaysia 
in  our  unrelenting  pursuit  of  a  more  representative, 
democratic, 
transparent  Security 
Council.  In  that  sense,  Sir,  we  hope  that  you  may  be 
similarly inspired, and perhaps during your presidency 
we may be able to see equally noteworthy progress.
legitimate  and 
Malaysia’s positions on the issue of Security Council 
reform  have  been  consistent.  Allow  me  to  briefly 
summarize  those  positions,  which  we  will  expand 
further during the next round of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. 
We firmly believe that there is a need for an expansion 
in the Council’s membership and a better geographical 
representation,  in  particular  for  regional  groupings 
underrepresented in the Council. The expansion of both 
categories,  permanent  and  non-permanent,  would  be 
crucial in strengthening the role and representativeness 
of  the  Council.  An  increase  in  non-permanent  seats 
would allow more Member States to be elected to the 
Council and would increase the frequency for Member 
States to serve in the Council, thus providing for more 
inclusiveness in the Council’s decision-making process.
On  the  question  of  the  veto  held  by  the  five 
permanent members, Malaysia reaffirms our principled 
position  to  disagree  on  its  use  based  on  the  current 
structure. The veto should be regulated so as to prohibit 
it from being used unjustly and against the wishes of the 
majority. My delegation also joins those who propose 
restraint in the use of veto powers, especially in cases of 
international crimes such as genocide, war crimes and 
crimes against humanity. We believe that if all regions 
are represented by permanent members, then the new 
permanent members should also be accorded the right 
to veto, so as to contribute towards a more balanced and 
representational decision-making process. However, we 
may need to explore the option that a certain number of 
vetoes would be required before a resolution is rejected 
by the Council.
Malaysia strongly supports the view that the overall 
work of the Security Council should be enhanced and 
improved.  We  have  put  forward  several  proposals  in 
that regard, inter alia, to ensure that any expansion in 
membership will allow incoming Council members to 
continue to have the responsibility of presiding over the 
Council  at  least  once  during  their  term,  to  formalize 
the  Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure, 
to 
increase coordination between the Council and troop-
contributing  countries,  and  to  have  more  structured 
interactions  and  regular  consultations  between  the 
Council and the Peacebuilding Commission.
With regard to the relationship between the General 
Assembly and the Security Council, Malaysia believes 
that  there  should  be  a  clear  delineation  between  the 
work  of  those  two  organs,  based  on  their  respective 
mandates. We should be mindful of the need to prevent 
encroachment  on  the  part  of  the  Council  into  matters 
that  fall  under  the  prerogative  of  the  Assembly.  My 
delegation  also  calls  for  the  institutionalization  of 
monthly  consultations  between  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council.
Going  forward,  Malaysia  would  also  like  to 
reiterate  the  importance  of  text-based  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  support  the  preparation 
of  a  working  document  by  the  Chair  and  the  full 
participation  of  Member  States.  Only  through  such 
discussions,  with  the  participation  of  Member  States, 
can we identify areas for cooperation and move ahead 
on negotiations. In that regard, we are pleased with your 
encouragement of such an approach, Mr. President, as 
outlined in your 10 November letter.
Malaysia  believes  that  all  Member  States  have  a 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations,  and 
by  extension  the  Security  Council,  are  capable  of 
addressing the challenges prevailing today. In order for 
progress to be made, Member States must be willing to 
move beyond entrenched national and group positions. 
We have debated long and hard about compromise and 
flexibility,  but  we  have  yet  to  deliver  on  that.  I  wish 
to assure you, Sir, of my delegation’s firm support and 
cooperation to work with you and with other Member 
States in that endeavour.
Mr.  Khan  (Pakistan):  I  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
convening this meeting. We appreciate the fact that you, 
4/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  held  extensive 
consultations  before  holding  this  meeting.  We  also 
welcome  the  important  statement  that  you  made  this 
morning (see A/69/PV.49).
We thank Ambassador Zahir Tanin for his hard work 
over  the  past  seven  years  to  move  the  reform  process 
forward. As an accomplished diplomat, he tried his best 
to  bring  all  countries  on  board.  We  also  congratulate 
Ambassador Courtenay Rattray on his appointment as 
the new Chair and facilitator of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. We will give him all the support he needs 
to  advance  our  common  agenda.  We  congratulate 
Angola, Malaysia, New Zealand, Spain and Venezuela 
on their election as new non-permanent members of the 
Security Council.
the  process  of 
Let  me  first  talk  about  the  negotiating  dynamics. 
Seven  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  membership 
embarked  on 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  basis  of  decision  62/557.  That 
decision mandated the Assembly to work to achieve a 
comprehensive  reform  on  five  key  issues:  categories 
of  membership,  the  veto,  size  and  working  methods, 
regional  representation,  and  the  relationship  between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  The 
expansion of the Council is one of the elements of the 
overall  reform  agenda.  The  other  four  elements  are 
equally important, and all five are closely linked.
Our  experience  over  the  past  20  years  has  shown 
that  a  quick  fix  will  not  work,  though  many  abortive 
initiatives  have  been  tried  from  time  to  time.  Reform 
will be delivered on the basis of an agreement among 
States  on  the  substance,  not  as  a  result  of  procedural 
short-cuts  or  manoeuvres.  For  such  an  agreement  to 
emerge,  we  need  a  critical  mass  of  political  will  and 
resolve.  The  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
is a membership-driven process to be pursued in good 
faith,  with  mutual  respect,  in  an  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent  manner,  with  the  objective  of  seeking 
a  solution  that  enjoys  the  widest  possible  political 
acceptance. On Security Council reform, the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  draw  their  authority 
from decision 62/557.
A 
tenable  and  sustainable  outcome  for 
the 
membership  cannot  be  devised  by  a  small  caucus  or 
advisory  group,  because  reform  must  be  a  product  of 
negotiations among States, conducted in open settings. 
The United Nations is most skilled in conducting such 
negotiations and producing results. Another fact is that 
the  rigidity  in  positions  has  retarded  progress  in  the 
past 20 years. We call for flexibility to explore common 
ground. For its part, the Uniting for Consensus group 
has twice revised its own proposal and is ready to enter 
into dialogue to refine it.
This year we should work energetically on Security 
Council  reform,  but  there  should  be  no  artificial 
deadlines.  The  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
his letter of 10 November, has encouraged us to move 
the  process  to  text-based  negotiations.  We  agree. 
What  I  would  like  to  point  out  is  that  the  second 
revision of the negotiation text, which was compiled on 
Ambassador Tanin’s watch, has all the text we need. It 
provides a good starting point.
Now  let  us  talk  about  the  substance.  Pakistan 
opposes  the  creation  of  new  permanent  seats,  not 
because of regional rivalries or realpolitik, but because 
of the principles that should drive the Council’s reform 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  Prime  Minister  of 
Pakistan,  in  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  on 
26 September, said: “We want the Council to become 
more 
representative,  equitable,  accountable  and 
transparent” (A/69/PV.12, p. 39). Our opposition to the 
creation of permanent seats is rooted in those principles.
The existing permanent seats in the Council hark 
back  to  the  Second  World  War,  when  decisions  were 
taken by the victors, who also took the permanent seats. 
The  world  order  is  not  static;  it  has  moved  on.  There 
are no more victors and vanquished. The world is much 
more pluralist, much more diverse. The four countries 
that  have  presented  their  candidacies  for  permanent 
seats  need  to  understand  that  many  medium-sized 
countries, individually and collectively, compete with 
them  in  terms  of  size,  population,  economy,  military 
capacity, contribution to United Nations peacekeeping 
and commitment to democracy and human rights.
Today  we  talk  about  emerging  nations,  and  some 
cite that as a criterion and qualification for a permanent 
seat.  The  reality  is  that  many  more  countries  stand 
behind them and will play an even greater role in world 
politics and economics in the years to come. There are 
projections  that  power  configurations  will  change  in 
the coming decades. When States attain a higher level 
of competence, let us say in 10 years’ time, should they 
also be inducted as permanent members in the Security 
Council? And will those losing their eminent status be 
asked to vacate permanent seats? No State is powerful 
14-62341
5/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
in  perpetuity,  so  let  us  not  invest  membership  with 
permanence, because the next revision of the Council’s 
composition may take place 70 years from now.
The purpose of the reform is not to embed new centres 
of privilege within the Council, but to democratize it by 
aggregating and promoting the interests and aspirations 
of the entire family of small, medium-sized and large 
nations, which together constitute the United Nations. 
The United Nations belongs to all, not to a select few. 
We need to make the Council more inclusive. That is 
why  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  advocates  an 
intermediate solution. If we want to break the impasse 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  should 
start looking at that group’s proposal, which provides 
for  terms  that  are  longer  than  that  of  the  current 
non-permanent  seats  and  renewable  upon  elections. 
That would make members, elected for a longer term, 
accountable  to  the  General  Assembly.  On  the  other 
hand, by electing new permanent members, we will kill 
the very principle of accountability.
The Council also needs to expand its non-permanent 
seats.  More  than  one  third  of  the  United  Nations 
membership  has  never  had  the  opportunity  to  sit  on 
the  Council  even  once.  New  rotating  non-permanent 
seats  will  enable  more  countries  to  play  their  role  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Periodic  elections  will  ensure  that  States  elected  for 
longer terms or non-permanent seats remain responsive, 
accountable  and  transparent  vis-à-vis  the  general 
membership.
Within  the  confines  of  those  principles,  Pakistan 
has always showed respect and empathy for the African 
common  position,  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the 
Sirte Declaration as the collective demand of an entire 
continent. We see that common position as one based 
on  consensus  and  legitimacy,  which  is  quite  different 
from the individual ambitions of a few countries.
introducing 
its  original  proposal  and 
Again  I  emphasize  flexibility  and  compromise, 
without  which  there  is  no  point  in  negotiating.  The 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  showed  that  spirit  by 
revising 
it 
as  the  Italy-Colombia  paper.  That  paper  is  open  to 
further negotiations. On the other hand, the Group of 
Four  continues  to  stick  to  its  demand  for  permanent 
seats.  They  lament  the  lack  of  progress,  without 
acknowledging  that  their  fixed  position  is  the  biggest 
barrier  to  progress.  For  them,  the  only  measure  of 
progress is the extent to which other groups adjust to 
their  claim  of  entitlement.  There  has  been  no  change 
in  their  stance.  That  is  not  how  intergovernmental 
negotiations ought to be conducted.
Most  of  my  remarks  have  been  devoted  to  the 
categories  of  expansion.  I  would  like  to  briefly  state 
the following on other elements. We have followed with 
keen interest the French proposal to restrict the use of 
the veto. We need to hold further discussions to examine 
the added value of the veto’s general limitation, its use 
only  under  Chapter  VII  and  its  abolition.  The  size  of 
the expanded Council should be large enough to make 
it  representative  but  small  enough  to  keep  it  efficient 
and effective. The Council’s Informal Working Group 
on  Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions 
should  open  space  for  engagement  with  the  general 
membership,  so  as  to  refine  its  working  methods  in 
order  to  make  its  decision-making  more  informed, 
accountable  and  transparent.  Regional  representation 
and regional ownership should be further enhanced.
Finally, the General Assembly asks for more say on 
issues of peace and security, and rightly so. However, 
it should make optimal use of the space that is already 
available to it — for instance, through more effective 
stewardship of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping 
Operations  and  more  active  use  of  the  Uniting  for 
Peace  mechanism.  The  Council,  for  its  part,  should 
devise ways to deal with emerging thematic issues such 
as  climate  change,  sexual  violence  in  armed  conflict 
and  children  and  women’s  rights  in  close  partnership 
with the relevant intergovernmental organizations and 
forums.
Mr.  Körösi  (Hungary):  For  years,  Hungary  has 
emphasized the need to move expeditiously towards a 
timely and comprehensive agreement on all aspects of 
Security  Council  reform.  My  country  wishes  to  take 
decisive steps towards that goal by 2015, half a century 
after the Security Council was last reformed.
The  year  2015,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations,  will  also  be  the 
year  when  Member  States  finalize  their  preparations 
for more sustainable development and when they plan 
to  enter  into  a  legally  binding  agreement  on  climate 
change.  Yet  Security  Council  reform  seems  to  be  at 
a  standstill,  or  even  worse:  we  seem  to  be  in  a  self-
inflicted time loop.
Unfortunately,  our  situation  is  neither  science 
fiction nor a bad movie; it is the lamentable reality. We 
have been reliving our intergovernmental-negotiations 
discussions on the five key issues time and time again. 
6/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
We even force artificial amnesia on ourselves, since not 
even  written  records  of  new  proposals  or  summaries 
can be made. Similarly, the non-paper of the advisory 
group and the document containing the third revision 
have  been  rejected  by  some  who  claim  that  Security 
Council  reform  must  be  a  State-driven  process.  But 
how can a process be State-driven if it refuses to record 
any  new  proposal,  including  proposals  by  States,  for 
over  four  years?  Mind  you,  the  document  containing 
the second revision was issued in 2010.
Every  political  process  needs  shared  institutional 
memory. We have a problem that we have created for 
ourselves,  partially,  by  adopting  the  same  decision 
on  the  reform  process  year  after  year  and  adhering 
to  it  as  agreed  language  that  commands  consensus. 
Let  me  emphasize  that  Hungary  is  a  great  supporter 
of  consensus.  As  we  have  said,  we  want  to  build 
consensus  instead  of  building  camps.  But  consensus 
has to emerge at the end, or as a result, of the process on 
the substantive issues of reform. Consensus cannot be 
a prerequisite for all elements of the process, including 
procedural  issues.  More  precisely,  it  can  be  required, 
but only with the devastating consequences that we are 
all witnessing. By emphasizing the need for consensus, 
we  cannot  even  start  negotiations,  thus  losing  any 
chance to achieve consensus.
Therefore the question: how to move forward with 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process.  How  can 
we break out of the deadlock of self-repeating cycles?
First, we agree that the process should be Member-
State-driven.  Therefore,  all  new  proposals  should  be 
compiled in written format. It is only logical that we put 
new proposals on an equal footing with proposals that 
have already been reflected in the document containing 
the second revision.
Secondly, the next logical step would be to produce 
a draft text that could become the basis for substantive 
negotiations,  as  many  delegations  before  me  have 
requested.
Thirdly,  we  must  have  meetings  at  regular 
intervals, producing newer and newer drafts, narrowing 
differences  and  reducing  the  number  of  outstanding 
issues. It is true that nothing is agreed until everything 
is agreed, but to get there we have to start agreeing on 
something. I acknowledge that that logic might not be 
optimal for some delegations. There could be other ways 
to move forward, but the lack of complete agreement on 
procedural issues can no longer be used as justification 
for doing nothing.
Therefore, if such proposals are not acceptable, our 
suggestion would be to have the first intergovernmental 
negotiation  meetings  dedicated 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  procedures  and  their 
way forward.
solely 
to 
We  need  to  decide  whether  we  want  to  make  the 
process  outcome-oriented,  or  whether  the  outcome 
is  not  our  primary  interest.  Indeed,  we  should  move 
forward and change the rigid rules of engagement that 
have shackled us and our previous Chair, Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin,  for  years.  While  we  thank  him  for  his 
diligence  under  difficult  circumstances,  we  are  ready 
to change gears under the guidance of our new Chair, 
Ambassador Courtenay Rattray.
Mrs.  Namgyel  (Bhutan):  I  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
convening  this  very  important  meeting.  The  question 
of Security Council reform has been on the agenda for 
many  years,  and  you  have  rightly  recognized  it  as  a 
priority. My delegation looks forward with optimism to 
making meaningful progress on that subject under your 
able leadership.
I welcome the appointment of Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray  of  Jamaica  as  Chair  of  the  eleventh  round  of 
intergovernmental negotiations and assure him of our 
full  support  and  cooperation.  I  have  no  doubt  that 
Ambassador  Rattray  will  inject  new  momentum  into 
the intergovernmental negotiations process during the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I would like 
to place on record our deep appreciation to the previous 
Chair,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan,  for 
his  steadfast  commitment  and  stewardship  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process for the past few 
years.
Bhutan  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  on 
behalf  of  the  L.69  Group  by  Ambassador  Menissa 
Rambally,  Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Lucia 
(see A/69/PV.49).
The  imperative  to  reform  the  Security  Council 
so  as  to  make  it  more  representative,  transparent 
and  accountable  cannot  be  overstated.  It  has  been 
recognized since 1993, when the General Assembly first 
began debating Security Council reform. Our leaders in 
2005 also called for an early reform of the Council as 
an essential element of our overall efforts to reform the 
United Nations. Many of our leaders reiterated that call 
14-62341
7/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
during the high-level segment of the Assembly’s sixty-
ninth session.
Since 2009, the 10 rounds of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  kept  us  engaged  on  this  important 
subject.  However,  despite  the  overwhelming  support 
for reform, we have not made much progress.
the 
During 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  a 
majority  of  delegations  supported  an  expansion  in 
both  categories  of  membership.  In  his  assessment, 
the Chair of the tenth round of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  highlighted,  among  other  issues,  that 
there was a continued emphasis on the need for reform. 
While some progress has been made in improving the 
working methods of the Council, the lack of a working 
document has made it difficult to engage constructively 
in real negotiations and address all issues. We therefore 
look forward to your leadership, Sir, and to that of the 
new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  to 
take the process forward on the basis of a zero draft.
Bhutan  supports  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council in keeping with contemporary realities, on the 
basis of the principles of sovereign equality, equitable 
geographic  distribution,  transparency,  accountability 
and  democratization  of  the  decision-making  process. 
We believe that an expansion of the Security Council 
in both the permanent and non-permanent membership 
categories and an improvement in its working methods 
are  necessary  to  further  strengthen  and  enhance  the 
Council’s legitimacy and functioning.
For  over  20  years,  beginning  with  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security Council and on through the recently concluded 
tenth round of the intergovernmental negotiations, we 
have heard and listened to various proposals. We have 
engaged extensively on all issues on the basis of decision 
62/557. We now have the benefit of years of discussions 
and  debate,  and  we  understand  each  other’s  positions 
better.  What  we  need  now  is  a  working  document  so 
that real negotiations can be pursued in earnest. Only 
then can we make meaningful progress in our common 
endeavour to reform the Security Council by building 
on areas of convergence and by finding common ground 
on areas in which we disagree.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
in  2015  presents  an  opportune  occasion  to  make  real 
progress on a subject that has remained on our agenda 
for over two decades. Despite the seemingly intractable 
nature of this subject, it is now time for us to engage 
in  text-based  negotiations  to  take  the  reform  process 
forward.  While  a  decision  taken  by  consensus  is  the 
most  desirable  way  forward,  we  cannot  allow  its 
absence to obstruct progress indefinitely. In that regard, 
we  are  confident  that  you,  Sir,  will  provide  renewed 
momentum  and  impetus  to  the  process  and  steer  it 
towards a results-oriented and meaningful conclusion.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth  session.  We  appreciate  the  importance 
that  you  have  given  to  today’s  agenda  item,  entitled 
“Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  deep 
gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Zahir Tanin, Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  all  his  dedication 
and leadership throughout our rounds of negotiations, 
in which the various groups and States expressed their 
positions regarding urgent and necessary reforms.
We  welcome  the  appointment  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  process. 
We  are  confident  that  with  Ambassador  Rattray’s 
signature dynamism and experience and your wisdom, 
Mr.  President,  we  can  move  on  to  a  more  advanced 
stage in the negotiations.
Nicaragua  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  Ambassador  Menissa  Rambally,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
Group (see A/69/PV.49). Our Group has been sufficiently 
flexible  and  level-headed  in  our  positions  during  the 
past 10 rounds of negotiations. We have also worked in 
a spirit of compromise and cooperation throughout the 
process to achieve the required comprehensive reforms 
in the Security Council.
Nicaragua  also  reiterates  its  full  support  for  the 
African position as set out in the Ezulwini Consensus.
The tally of the progress made on reforms over the 
past 10 years leaves much to be desired. It is imperative 
that  during  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, on the eve of the seventieth anniversary of 
the  Organization,  we  redouble  our  efforts  and  ensure 
that we are able to comply with the mandate conferred 
on us by our leaders in 2005. In order to achieve that, as 
8/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
evidenced by the lessons learned in the past 10 rounds 
of  negotiations,  we  must  give  one  final  push  to  the 
negotiating process and, united by our common cause, 
achieve lasting, comprehensive reforms in the Security 
Council.
It  is  therefore  necessary  that  you,  Mr.  President, 
give  a  clear  mandate  to  Ambassador  Rattray,  Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  process,  to  immediately 
conduct real negotiations, based on a text that is fully 
supported,  in  the  next  round  of  negotiations.  Only  in 
that way will the process move forward and will we be 
able to successfully reach the culmination of our efforts 
and present a concrete outcome when our leaders meet 
next year.
I  must  recall  that  over  the  past  10  rounds  of 
discussions it has become absolutely clear that the vast 
majority  of  Members  support  and  wish  for  an  urgent 
expansion  in  the  categories  of  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent members in the Security Council. Only 
thus  can  we  reflect  the  realities  of  the  contemporary 
world and achieve greater accountability in a Security 
Council 
transparent, 
credible and relevant.
is  more  representative, 
that 
Finally,  at  this  crucial  stage  of  the  negotiations, 
Nicaragua  reiterates  its  full  support  and  pledges 
its  cooperation  to  Ambassador  Rattray  and  to  you, 
Mr. President.
Mr.  Aboulatta  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
your  statement  (see  A/69/PV.49),  which  reflects  an 
insightful vision and a strong resolve to achieve reform 
in, and an expansion of, the Security Council.
My  delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, the representative of Sierra Leone on behalf 
of the African Group and the representative of Kuwait 
on behalf of the Arab Group (ibid.).
Egypt believes in the importance of a comprehensive 
reform  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  Security 
Council,  so  as  to  better  support  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to 
enable  our  universal  Organization  to  respond  to  new 
and contemporary international challenges.
Egypt attaches major importance to the reform of 
the Council through a transparent process owned by all 
Member States, aimed at achieving an agreed solution 
that is comprehensive and commands the widest possible 
political  support,  including  on  the  major  interrelated 
negotiating issues as set out in decision 62/557. We are 
confident that those clear guidelines will form a frame 
of  reference  for  the  work  of  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica  and 
new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
welcome him to his new functions and assure him of our 
ongoing support to continue the constructive efforts in 
the process of reforming and expanding the Council, as 
we did with his predecessor, Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
to whom we express sincere appreciation for his efforts 
in that regard.
Egypt  once  again  reiterates  its  full  commitment 
to  the  common  African  position  as  set  out  in  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  which 
provide  a  comprehensive  vision  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council, including the right of the veto. Egypt 
is  pleased  with  the  growing  support  for  the  common 
African  position,  which  we  view  as  evidence  that  the 
world recognizes the importance of righting the historic 
injustice  visited  upon  the  African  continent.  Africa 
still lacks the representation it deserves in the Security 
Council.  Such  representation  would  serve  to  promote 
how the Council is perceived when it comes to its work 
in general and the African questions on its agenda in 
particular. Given that African questions constitute the 
bulk  of  the  agenda,  redressing  the  historic  injustice 
done  to  the  continent  is  even  more  important  to  the 
effectiveness of the work of the Council. That requires 
that the demands of the African position be responded 
to.
Egypt is committed to continuing to work to expand 
the membership of the Council. That requires that we 
all make constructive efforts to achieve an acceptable 
solution to all aspects of the reform process. We should 
all  continue  to  work  together  to  preserve  the  basic 
values  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  inclusiveness, 
democracy,  accountability,  transparency  and  equality. 
Those  values  should  guarantee 
the  current 
negotiations culminate in a comprehensive reform and 
thus enable the Council to assume its role effectively in 
maintaining international peace and security.
that 
There is no doubt that the challenges of the twenty-
first  century  require  enhanced  multilateral  action 
through a reform of the United Nations that reaffirms 
its central role and renders the Security Council more 
14-62341
9/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
effective, with a composition that is more equitable and 
more representative of the general membership of the 
Organization.
Our  meeting 
today  provides  another  chance 
to  negotiate  in  order  to  complete  the  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  through  a  reform  of  its  major  organ 
concerned with the maintenance of international peace 
and security. This is an opportunity that we must take 
advantage of through commitment to the basic values 
of the Charter of the United Nations and by making the 
utmost efforts to bridge positions and to push forward a 
consensus position.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
you, Mr. President, for having convened this debate on 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters, and for the special interest that you attach to 
the  process  of  Security  Council  reform,  as  set  out  in 
your statement at the opening of the sixty-ninth session 
(see  A/69/PV.1)  and  in  your  introductory  statement 
today (see A/69/PV.49).
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  our  colleague 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  His 
Excellency Mr. Zahir Tanin, for his outstanding work 
and for the manner in which he led the intergovernmental 
negotiations  over  the  past  few  years  despite  the 
difficulties  and  pitfalls  he  faced.  I  would  also  like  to 
congratulate the Permanent Representative of Jamaica, 
Mr. Courtenay Rattray, on his appointment as Chair of 
the intergovernmental negotiations.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of 
the African Group and by the representative of Kuwait 
on behalf of the Arab Group (see A/69/PV.49).
I  welcome  your  efforts,  Mr.  President,  and  those 
of the succeeding facilitators and the various countries 
and groups of countries aimed at overcoming the years-
long  stalemate  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process.  In  that  regard,  I  express  Tunisia’s  full 
readiness  to  continue  to  support  this  process,  which 
must continue to be based on the proposals of Member 
States,  transparency,  inclusiveness  and  the  search  for 
consensus.
Mrs.  Baaro  (Kiribati),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The 
should 
continue  to  be  the  only  appropriate  institutional 
intergovernmental 
negotiations 
framework  for  this  process,  as  they  are  mandated  by 
the General Assembly to address the issue of Security 
Council reform in an open and inclusive way with the 
goal of identifying the solution that garners the widest 
possible  political  acceptance  among  Member  States, 
in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations and the relevant decisions of the General 
Assembly on the issue, in particular decision 62/557.
Tunisia  expresses  its  full  support  for  the  desire 
shared by almost all Member States to break the current 
status  quo  and  give  new  impetus  to  the  negotiating 
process  in  order  to  achieve  the  concrete  results  that 
we have been awaiting for over 20 years. However, we 
believe that this goal should not be pursued in haste or 
to the detriment of the broad consensus needed among 
all  Member  States.  In  our  view,  imposing  a  fictional 
timeline or a negotiating text that does not reflect the 
positions of all countries would be inconsistent with the 
spirit  of  consensus  and  the  principle  of  transparency, 
which  have  characterized  the  negotiations  process  to 
date.
The process of negotiations should have as its main 
objective a Security Council that reflects the political 
and  economic  realities  of  our  world  today.  It  should 
endow the Council with the legitimacy, credibility and 
effectiveness needed to act on behalf of the international 
community  in  fulfilling  a  mandate  in  line  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Strengthening  the 
legitimacy  of  the  Council,  in  particular  by  enhancing 
equitable representation within that principal organ of 
the  United  Nations,  will  undoubtedly  result  in  more 
realistic mandates, more effective decisions and a more 
consistent implementation of Council decisions.
To  achieve  an  expanded  Security  Council  that 
ensures  equitable  representation  and  reflects  current 
and ongoing sensitivities, we should focus on expanding 
the Council’s membership, particularly when it comes to 
developing countries. In that context, Tunisia reiterates 
its  support  for  the  position  of  the  African  Union  on 
the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform  as  reflected  in 
the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. We 
believe  it  is  time  to  remedy  the  current  situation  that 
deprives the African continent of a permanent presence 
in  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  to  provide  Africa 
with a better non-permanent presence.
We also support the legitimate demands of the Arab 
countries for permanent representation in the Security 
Council.  The  current  situation  in  the  region,  which 
could very well persist, justifies that demand.
10/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  be 
comprehensive  and  inclusive.  It  must  address  all 
substantive issues relating, inter alia, to the Council’s 
composition, regional representation, working methods, 
agenda  and  decision-making  process,  including  the 
right of the veto, so as to achieve the broadest possible 
political agreement from Member States.
While commending Ambassador Tanin’s assessment 
of  the  tenth  round  of  the  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  related  matters,  my  delegation  firmly 
believes that we need to build the momentum from the 
last round of consultations on the issue.
We cannot conclude without mentioning the option 
of  considering,  in  any  attempt  to  reform  the  Security 
Council, the relationship between the Council and the 
other principal organs of the United Nations, and full 
respect by the Council of the prerogatives and functions 
of  each  of  those  bodies,  in  particular  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Tuy  (Cambodia):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this  important 
meeting on the question of equitable representation on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and  related  matters.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
His  Excellency  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray  of 
Jamaica  on  his  appointment  as  the  new  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  My  appreciation  also 
goes  to  the  former  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, His Excellency Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
for  his  tireless  efforts  in  moving  the  negotiations 
forward.
Cambodia  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  oral 
decision read by the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session on the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  related  matters  (decision 
68/557) adopted in September 2014 (see A/68/PV.106), 
aimed at paving the way for further intergovernmental 
negotiations  at  the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth  session. 
While  rendering  its  full  support  for  the  continued 
ongoing 
this  year, 
Cambodia is ready to work with all States Members of 
the United Nations to move forward with the process.
intergovernmental  negotiations 
We have observed that over the years we have had 
quite  a  number  of  consultations  on  United  Nations 
reform,  and  we  have  arrived  at  the  consultations  on 
today’s  theme.  However,  we  have  not  yet  found  any 
common  ground  on  a  clear  framework  or  any  basic 
documents with which to start. That is largely due to our 
divergent  views,  and  also  partly  because  we  have  not 
positively  responded  and  lived  up  to  the  commitment 
set out at the 2005 Summit.
At  the  annual  general  debate  of  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-ninth  session,  in  September,  we  heard  concerns 
over emerging challenges, ranging from communicable 
diseases to raging conflicts and instability, which may 
affect many regions and many parts of the world. We 
heard about the pressing need for the United Nations to 
change things within the United Nations system, since 
the  Organization  today  is  completely  different  from 
the  entity  created  almost  70  years  ago  when  only  51 
countries were Members.
My  delegation  therefore  believes  that  the  year 
2015 will be a crucial one, as the United Nations will 
celebrate the seventieth anniversary of its establishment 
and the tenth anniversary of the 2005 World Summit, 
where  world  leaders  agreed  to  reform  the  United 
Nations  to  meet  the  need  of  today’s  geopolitical  and 
global challenges.
It  is  certain  that  the  Security  Council,  as  the 
body  mandated  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
should  reflect  the  global  realities  of  today.  In  that 
regard, my delegation is of the view that the Security 
Council should be expanded to include both permanent 
and  non-permanent  members  in  an  equitable  manner 
to  cope  with  the  global  challenges.  More  important, 
Council reform should be undertaken in a manner that 
provides for equitable geographical representation from 
all Member States, including developing countries.
My  delegation  believes  that  a  set  of  guidelines  is 
needed  for  the  Security  Councils’s  permanent  seats 
to  be  extended  to  Member  States  that  possess  all  the 
capacities and commitments to substantially contribute 
to maintaining international peace and security.
Mr. Khan (Indonesia): Let me begin by thanking 
the  President  for  convening  this  important  debate. 
I  would  also  like  to  convey  my  delegation’s  deepest 
appreciation  to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  his  very  able 
stewardship  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
over  the  past  years,  and  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
14-62341
11/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
Jamaica, for his appointment as the Chair of the next 
round of the intergovernmental negotiations.
Indeed,  when 
the  Council 
We  meet  here  in  the  midst  of  heightened  and 
complex security challenges in various regions. As the 
emerging,  as  well  as  old,  challenges  are  confronted, 
the global expectations of the Security Council to act 
effectively  are  more  pronounced.  But  the  effective 
maintenance of international peace and security in the 
face  of  today’s  challenges  requires  a  Council  whose 
structure reflects the plurality and realities of today — a 
Council  that  can  demonstrate  unequivocally  that  it  is 
representative,  democratic,  transparent,  accountable 
and efficient and that serves the interests of the entire 
international community, and not a select few.
leaves 
cases 
unaddressed, such as those of Palestine and Syria, for 
long  periods,  failing  to  resolve  them  in  a  meaningful 
manner,  serious  questions  linger  about  its  credibility. 
Since  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  have 
entrusted  the  Security  Council  to  act  on  their  behalf, 
it  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  help  ensure  that 
the  Council  fully  lives  up  to  fulfilling  the  peace  and 
security  imperatives,  as  well  as  the  norms  set  out 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  international 
law  and  humanitarian  law.  Indonesia  will  therefore 
remain  an  active  proponent  of  the  efforts  to  achieve 
a comprehensive and intergovernmental-led reform of 
the Security Council.
As  my  delegation  has  elaborated  its  position  on 
the  five  key  reform  issues  on  a  number  of  occasions, 
I  shall  restrict  myself  to  making  a  few  observations 
on  the  rounds  of  negotiations  so  far  in  the  informal 
intergovernmental negotiations, and on our view of the 
way forward.
As important as the tenth and preceding rounds of 
discussions have been, they have not led to a narrowing 
of differences on the Council’s reform. The perspectives 
are vast and deep. Most notably, there are strong views 
on the issues of membership categories and the related 
expansion.  But  the  veto  and  other  key  issues  are  also 
marked by divergence.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  with  its 
implications,  clearly  entails 
inherent  geostrategic 
high  stakes  for  many.  Certainly,  Member  States 
have 
legitimate  concerns  and  expectations.  But 
encouragingly,  all  countries  also  agree  that  we  must 
be  constructively  engaged  in  the  reform  process.  To 
promote  forward  thinking  that  helps  to  advance  the 
process  in  a  meaningful  manner,  we  urge  Member 
States  to  exercise  greater  political  flexibility  and  to 
consider intermediate options that may lead to potential 
convergence,  particularly  on  membership  expansion 
and the veto, which have underlying ramifications on 
differences for other reform issues.
A number of countries have proposed models on the 
intermediate options for the categories of seats. Along 
with  other  reform  issues,  we  are  willing  to  discuss 
them  further  with  an  open  mind  in  the  new  round  of 
negotiation.
With  regard  to  the  veto,  Indonesia  advocates  the 
abolition  of  the  right  to  the  veto.  As  a  step  towards 
that, we could support a mechanism for regulating or 
managing the veto. The renewed calls for the non-use 
of  veto  in  cases  concerning  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  genocide  must 
be given due consideration. We support the view that 
the veto should not be exercised under Chapter VI of 
the  Charter,  and  that  two  concurrent  negative  votes 
by  permanent  members  to  prevent  the  adoption  of  a 
Council decision should be required.
We  note  the  suggestion  to  carry  out  a  so-called 
high-level audit of efforts aimed at achieving an early 
reform of the Security Council, and that the audit should 
be  undertaken  by  an  independent  political  figure,  to 
be  selected.  Despite  the  good  intentions  behind  the 
proposal,  we  reiterate  that  the  nature  of  the  informal 
negotiations as a membership-driven process should be 
fully observed and preserved. All Member States must 
have  an  equal  voice  in  a  transparent  reform  process, 
which  must  involve  them  in  any  decisions  taken  on 
the way forward. We also underscore that all five key 
reform  issues  should  be  considered  together,  without 
piecemeal solutions, and that the integrity of decision 
62/557 should be upheld.
Concrete gains on Council reform have been elusive. 
Nevertheless, we must be committed to relentlessly and 
constructively forging commonalities and building on 
them. For its part, Indonesia will continue to work with 
all interested delegations to help craft workable paths to 
meaningful reform.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation welcomes the convening of this meeting of 
the General Assembly to continue discussing one of the 
core  issues  related  to  reform  of  the  Organization:  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and 
12/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
related  matters.  While  acknowledging  Ambassador 
Zahir Tanin’s  work during the 10 rounds of informal 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
issue,  we 
also  welcome  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray,  to  chair  the  process  during  the  Assembly’s 
current session. I would like to assure him that he can 
count on my delegation’s support.
the 
If  anything  has  become  evident  during  the  long 
process  of  negotiations  on  reforming  the  Security 
Council,  it  is  Members’  overwhelming  agreement  on 
the  urgent  need  to  adapt  the  Organization’s  structure 
so that it adequately reflects the changed international 
scene.  Peru  would  like  to  stress  how  essential  it  is 
that  we  make  progress  towards  our  goal  of  achieving 
a renewed, reformed, expanded, more democratic and 
representative  Security  Council  that  is  also  effective 
and  efficient  and  whose  methods  of  work  are  more 
transparent.  The  Council’s  inability  to  halt  the  armed 
conflicts  in  Syria,  Ukraine  and  the  Gaza  Strip, 
among  other  placess,  has  shown  us  how  urgently  its 
comprehensive reform is needed.
  We  should  remember  that  the  Security  Council’s 
mandate to ensure international peace and security is 
granted to it by all States Members of the United Nations, 
which is why it is up to the Assembly to carry out the 
reforms  required  to  ensure  effective  implementation 
of that mandate. It is therefore time to act. We cannot 
simply  continue  to  limit  ourselves  to  reasserting  our 
well-known  national  positions;  we  must  make  the 
necessary  concessions  that  will  enable  us  to  produce 
a  negotiating  text  that  has  clear  alternatives,  that  can 
rise above a mere description of positions and that can 
identify  and  process  our  options  so  that  we  can  work 
for genuine negotiation. None of that will be possible 
if we do not abandon notions about artificial deadlines 
or delays and replace them with a real commitment to 
producing  tangible,  balanced  results,  firmly  based  on 
the  principle  that  the  process  must  be  inclusive  and 
transparent.
To  quickly  touch  on  the  points  made  in  decision 
62/557, Peru once again reiterates its belief that for the 
Security Council to be able to deal appropriately with 
the new realities, it is essential to add new permanent 
and  non-permanent  members.  That  would  promote 
a  fair  and  equitable  regional  representation,  altering 
the  Council’s  currently  unbalanced  status  quo.  My 
delegation  understands that  such an  expansion  should 
be enough to increase the Council’s representativeness 
but not so great as to render it less effective.
With  regard  to  the  issue  of  the  veto,  Peru  has 
consistently  taken  a  principled  position  in  favour  of 
its  eventual  abolition.  At  the  moment,  however,  my 
delegation  takes  the  constructive  attitude  that  the 
permanent  members  should  commit  to  considering  a 
first step that limits the use of the veto and eliminates 
the possibility of applying it in cases of genocide, crimes 
against  humanity  or  successive  acts  that  blatantly 
violate human rights or international humanitarian law. 
I  welcome  France’s  proposal  in  that  regard  and  urge 
the other permanent members to seriously explore this 
possibility.
It  is  also  important  to  strive  for  concrete  reform 
of the Council’s working methods so as to increase its 
legitimacy,  the  transparency  it  needs  for  multilateral 
relations,  and  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  its 
work. That will be achieved only by promoting greater 
interaction  between  non-member  countries  and  the 
Council.  It  is  therefore  essential  to  hold  more  public 
than  private  meetings,  schedule  more  open  debates, 
consult  troop-contributing  countries  in  a  timely  way 
when the Council discusses the renewal of peacekeeping 
mandates,  establish  as  a  regular  practice  the  wrap-
up  sessions  on  the  Council’s  work  at  the  end  of  each 
month,  and  explore  other  creative  ways  of  increasing 
the Council’s transparency.
The whole process should lead us to a decision. If, 
as we have unanimously said here, we want to reform the 
Security Council, we must turn that wish into concrete 
commitments. I would like to conclude by reaffirming 
my country’s total willingness to continue to participate 
constructively  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
in  informal  plenary  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.
Mr.  Waheed  (Maldives):  It  is  an  honour  for  the 
Maldives to participate in the debate on this important 
agenda item. The question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  is  an  important  matter  that  has  been  a  top 
priority  of  Maldivian  foreign  policy  for  decades. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  appointment  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Courtenay Rattray as the new Chair of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform. We look forward to seeing real progress on the 
negotiations in the lead-up to the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations next year.
14-62341
13/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
The  question  of  Security  Council  reform  is  one 
that  has  gone  unanswered  for  too  long.  At  its  core, 
the  United  Nations  embodies  the  ideal  that  all  States 
are equal. We are equally responsible for maintaining 
international order, furthering global development and 
advancing  the  just  causes  of  all  peoples.  Regrettably, 
the Security Council has not mirrored those principles. 
Sixty-nine  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  was  created 
by 51 countries in a world suffering from destitution, 
colonial  oppression  and  the  aftermath  of  global  war. 
Today,  although  the  world  around  us  has  changed 
dramatically and the membership of the United Nations 
has expanded to include 193 States, the Security Council 
has been reformed only once since the Organization’s 
founding.
When 
reformed  50  years 
ago,  it  was  expanded  through  the  creation  of  four 
new  non-permanent  seats.  The  expansion  did  not 
compromise  the  Council’s  efficiency  or  make  it  less 
effective.  Instead,  it  became  more  representative  and 
legitimate.  In  today’s  world  order,  legitimacy  is  no 
longer derived from the will of the few, but rather from 
that  of  the  overwhelming  majority.  If  the  Security 
Council  is  to  maintain  its  legitimacy  as  an  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  with  the  authority  to  make  vital 
decisions  on  matters  of  peace  and  security  on  behalf 
of the entire international community, it must be open 
to change. 
the  Council  was 
There were calls for reform even before the Council 
held its first meeting, and those calls have been repeated 
consistently over the decades. However, little progress 
has  been  made.  The  greatest  impediment  to  progress 
has not been the apparent lack of consensus, but rather 
the lack of a fair and proper process to establish reform. 
In that light, we once again welcome the establishment 
of  an  advisory  group  on  Security  Council  reform  but 
regret  that  no  real  movement  has  occurred  since  its 
non-paper was published in December of last year. We 
hope that the advisory group will make progress over 
the course of the year and offer constructive proposals 
for establishing a streamlined reform process.
The membership of the Council is an increasingly 
flawed  reflection  of  the  world  today.  Half  of  the 
Members of the United Nations are small States, yet the 
vast majority of small States have never been elected. 
Small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  represent  one 
fifth of the United Nations membership, yet 78 per cent 
have never gained a seat on the Security Council. We 
can begin to correct this flawed picture with one simple 
step: establishing a SIDS-specific seat on the Council.
SIDS are an established, cohesive group that share 
unique challenges. We are nations that are small, isolated 
and  particularly  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters  and 
climate  change.  Yet  climate  change  is  fundamentally 
an issue of international security and stability that the 
Security  Council  must  confront.  The  Maldives  raised 
that  issue  during  the  Arria  formula  meeting  of  the 
Security Council on the subject of security dimensions 
of  climate  change,  in  2013.  The  Maldives  has  great 
expectations for a day when the Security Council will 
formally  address  the  long-term  security  threats  that 
affect low-lying States, such as ours and many others, 
that  are  vulnerable  to  the  impacts  of  climate  change. 
That  day  may  not  come  soon,  and  it  may  not  come 
soon enough, unless the Security Council has equitable 
representation, inclusive of those States most affected 
by climate change, particularly SIDS.
The  designation  of  a  SIDS-specific  seat  is  based 
on  the  principled  position  of  the  Maldives  that  an 
expanded membership should reflect the true nature of 
the United Nations. Because the Security Council lacks 
diverse  perspectives,  it  is  unable  to  meet  the  diverse 
needs  of  the  international  community,  especially  the 
developing world. But a change in membership is not 
possible  without  addressing  the  prohibitive  cost  of 
running  a  campaign  that  deters  or  prevents  smaller 
States  from  securing  a  seat  on  the  Council.  Security 
Council seats must not be a prize won by the highest 
bidder. Instead, States must be elected on principles of 
equality and representation. All States Members of the 
United  Nations  must  be  able  to  compete  on  an  equal 
footing and have an equal chance.
The  current  constitution  of  the  Security  Council 
reinforces  the  concentration  of  military  power  in  the 
hands of a few. We call on all permanent members to 
rise  above  their  national  interests  and  act,  as  Article 
24 of the Charter of the United Nations duly requires, 
on behalf of the interests of all States Members of the 
United Nations. We urge the permanent members not to 
resist the call for urgent reform and to help bring that 
vital organ of the United Nations into the twenty-first 
century.
The Maldives maintains that the Security Council, 
both in its present form and in its final manifestation 
through 
the  reform  process,  must  become  more 
accountable, coherent and transparent. It is imperative 
14/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
that the functioning and working methods of the Council 
be revised to ensure greater efficiency and inclusiveness. 
As  a  member  of  the  cross-regional  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency Group, the Maldives calls 
upon  the  current  Council  to  fulfil  its  responsibilities 
under  the  Charter  by  genuinely  representing  the  will 
and interests of the larger membership.
The vast majority of States have spoken here today: 
the  Security  Council  is  in  urgent  need  of  reform.  No 
small island developing State should be held back from 
its rightful place in the world order, for global security 
affects  the  small  with  the  greatest  measure.  Nations 
should not be judged on the size of their populations, 
nor on the might of their armies, but on the strength of 
their resolve to further peace and security for all.
the 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  commend  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin,  facilitator  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  and  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters, for the efforts he has made to achieve progress 
during the previous rounds of negotiations. I also wish 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica, for his appointment as the 
Chair of the new round. We look forward to reaching a 
consensus under his leadership that reflects the interests 
of all and produces the reforms that we all aspire to.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.49).
There is no doubt that Security Council reform is 
one of the priorities of the work of the United Nations, 
both because the process seeks to guarantee and secure 
the  future  of  the  United  Nations  and  because  of  the 
central role of the Security Council in the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  Maintaining  that 
important  role  dictates  that  the  work  of  the  Council 
should be carried out in a way that enables it to address 
the  realities  of  today’s  world  and  those  of  the  future, 
because the times are different from when the Charter 
of the United Nations was signed.
Ten rounds of negotiations have been held to date, 
during  which  the  delegations  of  all  countries  and 
groups expressed their positions. Regrettably, however, 
no substantial change has taken place regarding those 
positions since the first round. The discrepancies and 
the divergence of views have continued. We therefore 
need  to  adopt  practical  measures  that  will  take  the 
negotiation process forward from the current stalemate, 
including a new consensus text that provides the basis 
for negotiations.
Libya, as an African country, believes that one of 
the  major  steps  of  reform  is  to  redress  the  historical 
injustice  that  the  African  continent  has  suffered  by 
not  being  represented  in  the  permanent  membership 
category. Therefore, that right must be recognized as a 
non-negotiable one, especially because one third of the 
issues on the agenda of the Council are purely African 
ones. The Group of African States constitutes more than 
one quarter of the membership of the United Nations. 
That  injustice  can  be  redressed  by  according  Africa 
two permanent seats in the Security Council, with all 
of  the  privileges  enjoyed  by  the  current  permanent 
members, including the veto. It should also be granted 
two additional non-permanent seats, in conformity with 
the position of the Group of African States as set out in 
the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
On the other hand, we emphasize that any expansion 
of  the  Security  Council  membership  must  include 
granting  one  permanent  seat  to  the  Arab  Group,  in 
conformity with the resolution of the Arab Summit held 
in Sirte, Libya, in 2010, and the paper that was drafted 
by the Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  not  simply 
a question of increasing the number of seats or of the 
right of the veto. It touches on other aspects that have 
been discussed. We believe that all aspects of reform are 
interrelated and include the Council’s working methods 
and  its  relations  with  the  other  organs  of  the  United 
Nations. We emphasize the importance of implementing 
reform of the working methods of the Council itself so 
as to guarantee transparency and openness in its work, 
activities  and  procedures.  Meetings  should  be  open 
and  closed  negotiations  should  be  avoided  whenever 
possible.
Until the right of the veto is abolished, we should 
seek to limit its use in cases of war crimes, crimes against 
humanity and foreign occupation. The participation of 
non-members of the Council in the work of the Council 
should be encouraged, especially by those countries on 
the Council’s agenda.
Libya  emphasizes  the  importance  of  agreeing 
on  fixed  rules  of  procedure  to  replace  the  current 
provisional  rules  of  procedure,  which  have  been  in 
place since the establishment of the Security Council.
14-62341
15/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
With regard to the relationship between the Council 
and  other  organs  and  bodies,  we  emphasize  that  the 
Council should strengthen its relations with other organs 
of  the  United  Nations  and  not  encroach  upon  their 
mandates,  especially  the  General  Assembly.  It  should 
also  increase  consultations  with  other  organs  of  the 
United Nations in a manner that respects the mandates 
of each and every organ in keeping with the provisions 
of the Charter of the United Nations. We believe it is 
important  to  hold  consultations  between  the  various 
organs  and  to  increase  the  number  of  open  briefings 
and  debates,  as  well  as  to  provide  quarterly  reports 
to the General Assembly regarding issues threatening 
international  peace  and  security,  as  the  Assembly  is 
the  more  representative  organ.  Such  reports  should 
be  comprehensive,  transparent  and  include  all  of  the 
necessary analysis.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm 
that  Libya  has  been  and  remains  ready  to  participate 
constructively  and  effectively  in  all  efforts  to  reach 
consensus  and  achieve  the  objectives  desired  of  the 
process of reform.
Mr. Zinsou (Benin) (spoke in French): The reform 
of  the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  of  the 
Security  Council,  is  an  essential  requirement  to  give 
real prospects for global governance that is fairer and 
more equitable.
The  current  composition  of  the  Security  Council 
no longer reflects contemporary international society. 
If the Council does not involve more States in its work, 
it will not be able, for all the goodwill of its members, 
to  provide  viable  solutions  to  the  multidimensional 
challenges of sustainable development and the complex 
problems  related  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.
I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere  thanks  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  having  emphasized  in  his 
statement during the general debate of the sixty-ninth 
session  (see  A/69/PV.6)  the  vital  importance  to  the 
world of swiftly completing the reform of the system, 
in particular the Security Council. His predecessor, His 
Excellency Mr. John Ashe, rightly made that one of his 
priorities throughout his mandate and worked to ensure 
that  the  issue  was  discussed  with  all  the  attention  it 
deserved during the Assembly’s sixty-eighth session, in 
the  context  of  negotiations  conducted  by  Ambassador 
Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan.  I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to 
Ambassador  Tanin  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  generate 
consensus  on  the  issue  of  reform  throughout  the  10 
sessions of consultations that he facilitated.
Benin aligns itself with the statements delivered by 
the Permanent Representative of Saint Lucia on behalf 
of the L.69 Group, and by the representative of Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the African Group (see A/69/PV.49). 
The  contents  of  their  statements  convey  the  position 
and views of my country perfectly. 
We  believe  that,  following  so  many  rounds  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  the  round  we  are 
embarking upon now should take as a basis a condensed 
text by the President of the General Assembly grouping 
together the points of reform on which a great number 
of  States  agree,  so  as  to  significantly  facilitate  our 
deliberations.
Points  of 
exist 
and 
convergence  do 
the  vast  majority  of  States. 
are 
constantly  crosschecked  in  the  positions  expressed 
In  previous 
by 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
they  opted  clearly 
for  the  enlargement  of  the  Council  in  both  categories 
of  membership  —  non-permanent  members,  and 
permanent members with the right to the veto, that right 
to veto being, without a doubt, one of the key aspects of 
Security Council reform to which the African continent 
attaches the highest importance.
Such  reform  must  correct  the  historic  injustice 
whereby  Africa  has  not  been  represented  among  the 
permanent membership of the Council. In that regard, 
I would like to recall the Ezulwini Consensus and the 
Sirte Declaration, which clearly set out the unanimous 
position of the continent on this issue. I would like to 
reaffirm Benin’s commitment to that position, which, 
in our view, is a minimal requirement, given Africa’s 
importance  in  the  Council’s  work,  when  more  than 
60 per cent of the items on its agenda concern African 
States.
My  delegation  also  believes  that  the  right  of  the 
veto  should  be  exercised  under  the  same  conditions 
by  all  States  that  have  tha  privilege.  The  discussion 
undertaken during the previous session on the limitation 
of its use must continue, as their outcome will allow the 
Council to become more democratic.
Benin  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ambassador 
Courtney Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, 
to  chair  the  eleventh  round  of  the  intergovernmental 
16/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
negotiations.  Our  confidence  in  him  to  lead  our 
deliberations is inspired by his abilities as a distinguished 
diplomat  whose  skill,  professionalism  and  composure 
have  been  demonstrated  time  and  again.  All  of  those 
qualities will contribute to productive deliberations and 
ensure that the celebration of the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  2015,  is  a  very  memorable 
occasion.
Mr.  Shingiro  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
President for convening this timely debate on a subject 
as  important  as  Security  Council  reform,  an  issue 
with which we have been concerned for more than two 
decades.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  appointment  of 
our Jamaican colleague, Ambassador Rattray, as Chair 
of  the  forthcoming  cycle  of  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform,  which  we  very  much  hope  will  lead 
to concrete results in 2015. He can count on Burundi’s 
firm support throughout his term. I would also like to 
take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  the  excellent  work 
of Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan during his term 
as Chair, which he has just concluded with such flair.
Although  we  fully  endorse  the  statement  made 
earlier  today  by  our  colleague  from  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  African  States  (see  A/69/PV.49), 
we  would  like  to  make  several  observations  in  our 
national capacity.
Twenty years after the establishment of the Open-
ended Working Group on Security Council reform, the 
General  Assembly  should  set  aside  the  divisions  that 
continue  to  undermine  the  successful  conclusion  of 
negotiations on the reform of an organ that since 1965 
has consisted of 15 members, even as the United Nations 
has grown by 76 more States. Everyone agrees that the 
size of the Security Council has not kept pace with the 
pace  of  substantial  increase  in  the  number  of  States 
Members of the United Nations that we have witnessed 
over  the  past  half-century.  Both  the  composition  and 
the size of the Council reflect the world of 1965 — not 
that  of  today.  Multiple  shifts  have  taken  place  during 
the  intervening  years,  during  which  dozens  of  new 
countries have been born. 
We emphasize the need to speed up the process of 
reform, especially with respect to expanding the number 
of  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats.  It  is  essential 
to  bear  in  mind  that  the  pressure  to  move  towards  a 
more  representative  and  more  efficient  Council  is 
going to increase year after year, and that reform will 
eventually take place, however long it takes and despite 
the resistance it may face.
As  is  well  known,  there  have  been  many  cycles 
of intergovernmental negotiations since 2009, all held 
literally  in  a  vacuum,  without  a  text  and  defying  the 
logic  of  multilateral  diplomacy.  Anyone  who  says 
that  it  is  impossible  to  advance  towards  text-based 
negotiations is in effect saying no to progress. How is it 
possible to negotiate without a base text? Where should 
we  begin?  Those  are  serious  questions  that  deserve 
appropriate answers.
It  would  be  a  mistake  to  automatically  view  the 
call for text-based negotiations as an attempt to dilute 
the divergent positions on the issue. But neither should 
a base text be viewed as a final document. Additions, 
amendments  and  deletions  can  always  be  proposed 
at  the  appropriate  time  to  a  document  that  is  still  in 
progress.
We  all  know  that  with  a  subject  as  complex  as 
Security Council reform there will eventually be a vote 
in the General Assembly, as stipulated in the Charter of 
the United Nation. We are clearly not yet at that stage, 
but  to  claim  that  no  movement  is  possible  without 
full  consensus  is  to  hold  the  process  back,  when  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  favours 
expanding  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
membership categories of the Council.
The  process  currently  under  way  does  not  aim  to 
determine which country will or will not be a member 
of  the  Security  Council,  but  rather  to  define  the 
parameters that will shape the profile of the expanded 
future Council and to present viable options in response 
to  the  key  questions  identified  in  decision  62/557,  of 
15 September 2008.
Since 2005, numerous African Heads of State have 
repeatedly reaffirmed the need to reform the Security 
Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  representative, 
democratic,  effective, 
transparent,  accessible  and 
legitimate.  We  must  quickly  reach  agreement  on  a 
model for reform that will take into account the primary 
values of the United Nations, which are inclusiveness, 
democracy, accountability, equality and transparency.
More  than  100  Heads  of  State  and  Government, 
speaking  from  this  very  rostrum  during  the  general 
debate  at  this  session,  reiterated  the  demand  for 
swift Security Council reform. That urgent appeal by 
our  leaders  must  be  heard.  We  believe  that  Africa’s 
14-62341
17/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
shared position has always enjoyed the support of the 
majority of Member States, inasmuch as it is a viable 
option for Security Council reform. It is imperative to 
address  the  historical  injustice  with  respect  to  Africa 
without further delay. Africa is the only continent not 
represented in the category of permanent members of 
the Council, and it is also underrepresented among the 
non-permanent  members.  The  year  2015  is  the  right 
time to bring that historical injustice to an end.
My  country,  Burundi,  remains  committeed  to  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  which 
propose  assigning  Africa  two  permanent  seats  on 
the  Council  with  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges, 
including the right to the veto if that continues to exist, 
as well as two additional non-permanent seats.
We  look  forward  to  an  inclusive,  transparent  and 
open negotiation process that takes place in a spirit of 
flexibility and compromise. The reform of the Council’s 
working  methods  also  requires  dedicated  attention. 
We  hope  that  the  Council  will  demonstrate  greater 
transparency and responsibility. Burundi acknowledges 
the progress already made but believes that much more 
can be done. We of course hope for stronger ties between 
the Security Council and the General Assembly, as well 
as  between  the  Security  Council  and  the  Peace  and 
Security Council of the African Union.
Mr.  Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  would  like  to 
thank the President for convening this timely meeting.
We  fully  support  the  statement  delivered  by  Her 
Excellency Ambassador Menissa Rambally, Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
Group of countries (see A/69/PV.49), which essentially 
supports the position that Papua New Guinea has taken, 
in particular with respect to the reform of the Security 
Council in both categories of membership. My remarks 
will  therefore  be  brief.  But  let  me  also  acknowledge 
and  support  the  African  position  and  its  rationale  as 
reiterated in the statement delivered this morning by His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Chidi  Minah,  the  Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone (ibid.)
We  thank  the  President  for  recognizing,  in  both 
his acceptance speech (see A/68/PV.93) and his closing 
remarks at the conclusion of the high-level segment of 
the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/69/PV.20) the importance of this matter, thus making 
it one of his top priorities during his presidency.
We  warmly  welcome  the  appointment  of  His 
Excellency Ambassador Courtenay Rattray, Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica, as Chair for the next rounds 
of the intergovernmental negotiations and look forward 
to  working  with  him  during  his  stewardship.  We 
also  thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  his 
leadership  under  sometimes  trying  circumstances  in 
guiding us through 10 rounds of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.
It has been 10 years since the 2005 World Summit, 
where all of our leaders unanimously called for, among 
other important issues, the early reform of the Security 
Council.  While  we  are  nowhere  near  an  early  reform 
of the Security Council, one fact remains true, namely, 
that  the  full  United  Nations  membership  agrees  that 
the reform of the Council must happen. It was pleasing 
to  note  this  morning  that  even  all  members  of  the 
Permanent Five have also agreed to that reform.
We should also continue to remind ourselves that 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome document (resolution 
60/1) provided us with the Peacebuilding Commission, 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  UN-Women  and  ongoing 
reforms within the Secretariat. Some would argue that 
the reforms have been a little bit slow, but nevertheless, 
they are happening.
leading  up 
The  outstanding  issue  that  remains  in  need  of 
substantive  negotiations  is  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  sixty-ninth  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly, 
the  historic  seventieth 
anniversary  summit  of  the  United  Nations  in  2015, 
provides  an  important  occasion  for  taking  stock  of 
the  status  and  health  of  our  Organization.  Part  of  the 
process,  we  submit,  must  include  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
to 
Unfortunately, despite 10 rounds of intergovernmental 
negotiations, we are still in a situation where we do not 
have a written text from which we can start substantive 
negotiations  so  that  we  can  promptly  implement  the 
decision of the 2005 World Summit. But we support the 
statement made by the President this morning: “What 
is  now  required  is  a  firm  commitment  to  moving  the 
process  to  text-based  negotiation  on  all  clusters.” 
(A/69/PV.49, p. 1)
It is our submission that the eleventh round of the 
intergovernmental negotiations must start on the basis 
of a zero-draft text for negotiations. We propose that the 
text be introduced under the authority of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  In  our  view,  introducing 
a  text  would  move  us  from  the  business-as-usual 
18/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
modality,  which  has  become  too  familiar  during  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Issuing  a  text  would 
also create a situation where every United Nations State 
Member — large, small and medium — could actively 
and constructively participate in the negotiations.
To  assist  the  Assembly  President  in  conceiving  a 
text for the negotiators, we propose that he refer to and 
consider the non-paper provided by the advisory group 
on Security Council reform that was convened under his 
predecessor, Ambassador John Ashe, as a guide. In that 
regard we re-emphasize that the non-paper was based 
upon the same five parameters provided for in decision 
62/557.  Furthermore,  the  essence  of  the  non-paper  is 
in the elaboration of all of the options that all United 
Nations  Member  States  have  alluded  to,  in  one  form 
or  another,  during  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process,  under  each  of  the  five  headings.  We    are  all 
familiar  with  them,  but  let  me  reiterate:  categories 
of  membership,  the  question  of  the  veto,  regional 
representation, enlargement and working methods, and 
the relationship between the General Assembly and the 
Security Council.
is  somehow  biased 
It  is  somewhat  ironic  to  hear  the  criticism  that 
towards  one 
the  non-paper 
group’s  position.  Seen  in  its  entirety,  the  non-paper 
is all-encompassing in its intent and ensures room for 
elaborating  on  all  options  in  a  process  that  could  be 
enhanced during substantive text-based negotiations.
Again, we commend the non-paper to the President 
of the Assembly to use as a guide in his deliberations.
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  The  Congo 
is  a  member  of  the  Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State 
on  United  Nations  Security  Council  Reforms  and 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group (see A/69/PV.49).
At the outset, I wish to pay well-deserved tribute 
to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  who  has  persevered  in 
conducting the intergovernmental negotiations process 
since its launch in 2009. We are grateful to him for his 
pioneering and painstaking work and wish him the very 
best.
the  President  has  kindly  conferred 
In  his  wisdom,  and  in  order  to  kick-start  the 
process, 
the 
formidable task of propelling the negotiations to a new 
stage to Ambassador Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica. My 
delegation is confident in his ability to lead delegations 
and regional and other relevant groups to move on from 
their  entrenched  positions.  We  are  ready  to  listen  to 
him, and we assure him of our full cooperation.
It  is  therefore  for  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and the facilitator of the negotiations process 
to meet the challenge of bringing together the positions 
that  have  to  date  been  scattered  and  of  providing  us 
with  a  platform  that  will  generate  the  hope  that  the 
negotiations will effectively launch the process that we 
all  wish  to  see  advance  inclusively,  transparently  and 
democratically.
The  common  position  of 
the  African  States 
on  Security  Council  reform  is  well  known  to  all. 
Africa  is  the  only  continent  that  is  not  represented 
among the category of permanent members. It is also 
underrepresented  in  the  category  of  non-permanent 
members.  That  is  why  a  focus  on  the  reparation  of 
the  historical  injustice  meted  out  to  the  continent  is 
necessary. That involves the enlargement of the Council 
in the two categories of permanent and non-permanent 
members  and  the  granting  of  all  prerogatives  and 
privileges to new members, including the right of the 
veto, if and only if it is retained.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  broad  understanding 
of Africa’s legitimate claim and the sincere nature of the 
nearly unanimous statements that we surely now need 
to  move  on  from  simple  professions  of  faith.  Having 
observed  the  various  opinions  that  have  emerged 
throughout our previous deliberations, we believe that it 
is now time to build alliances with greater transparency 
in order to restart negotiations on a basic text that will 
enable the identification of common issues and lead to 
genuine compromise.
We are all aware of the universal responsibility for 
peace assumed by all nations, whether large or small. 
That is why we believe that, as the organ charged with 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the Security Council must be more representative and 
must take into account the current configuration of our 
world and the complexity that now surrounds issues of 
peace and security. The vision of the founding fathers 
of  this  institution  did  not  include  freezing  the  United 
Nations in a sort of sclerosis tainted by anachronism.
As  an  eminent  President  of  this  great  county,  the 
United  States,  stated  from  this  very  rostrum  in  his 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  eighteenth 
session, in 1963:
“The  United  Nations  cannot  survive  as  a  static 
organization. Its obligations are increasing as well 
14-62341
19/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
as its size .…  The authors of the Charter did not 
intend that it be frozen in perpetuity.” (A/PV.1209, 
para. 74)
The time has come for us to break the deadlock and 
move ahead in our efforts to give the world a Security 
Council that is more representative. Our advocacy for 
this goal is specific and is founded in decision 62/557 
and  other  texts  adopted  by  the  Assembly  General  on 
this issue.
In  September  2015,  the  United  Nations  will 
celebrate 70 years of existence. That will also provide 
an opportunity to assess the implementation of the 2005 
World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), which called 
for  a  rapid  reform  of  this  universal  institution.  Those 
many symbolic milestones should refocus our attention 
as we embark upon a new round of negotiations during 
the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly, which 
my delegation believes to be a pivotal moment. Without 
being held hostage to the deadline of September 2015 
or to some sort of dash to the finish line, the process 
to  which  we  have  committed  ourselves  will  gain  in 
credibility if we fully take advantage of the symbolism 
of such a deadline.
In this exercise, it is clear that political will is one 
of the key drivers without which it will not be possible 
to reach the necessary compromises. The emergence of 
a Security Council that espouses the values, goals and 
ideals of the Charter of the United Nations depends on 
it. Congo, for its part, will continue to work to that end, 
with  the  same  commitment  and  the  same  openness, 
within the African Union Committee of Ten.
Mrs.  Nguyen  Phuong  Nga  (Viet  Nam):  I  would 
like to begin by expressing our thanks to the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  having  convened  this 
meeting  on  this  important  agenda  item,  entitled 
“Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”.
We 
thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin 
of  Afghanistan  for  his  efforts 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  over  the  past  years. 
the  newly  appointed 
We  would 
Chair 
of 
negotiations, 
Ambassador Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica, of our full 
support and wish him every success.
to  assure 
intergovernmental 
in  chairing 
also 
like 
the 
The  position  of  the  Vietnamese  delegation  on 
the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security  Council,  has  been  stated  on  a  number  of 
occasions.  It  is  our  view  that  more  than  ever  before, 
the  United  Nations  is  faced  with  growing  challenges 
and  with  unprecedented  complexities,  ranging  from 
climate  change  and  transnational  diseases  to  regional 
conflicts  and  tensions.  While  trying  to  adapt  to  new 
circumstances,  the  evolution  of  the  structure  of  the 
Organization in accordance with the Charter  has shown 
limitations  in  serving  the  international  community  in 
our collective efforts to tackle our common challenges 
head on.
As  we  approach 
the  commemoration  of 
the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is high 
time that Member States intensify the process of reform 
of the United Nations. The reform of the Security Council 
is a crucial area in that regard. It has been more than 
50 years since the Council was enlarged, whereas the 
number of Member States has in the meantime almost 
doubled.  Security  Council  reform  should  therefore  be 
accorded  adequate  attention  so  that  the  Council  can 
more effectively perform its functions as the primary 
body  responsible  for  maintaining  international  peace 
and security.
The Council needs to be enlarged in both categories 
of membership so as to ensure that it truly represents all 
United Nations Members, as stipulated in the Charter. 
We  believe  that  developing  States  should  be  more 
adequately represented at that important organ.
The working methods of the Council should also be 
improved to ensure greater democracy and transparency. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  recent  Council  practice  of 
holding, on a more regular basis, wrap-up sessions and 
public  briefings  on  its  work  for  non-members  of  the 
Council.
As  various  United  Nations  entities  are  about 
to  undertake  comprehensive  reviews  of  their  work 
in  2015,  we  look  forward  to  our  next  round  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
the  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters.  We  appreciate  the  letter  from  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  dated  10  November  2014, 
in  which  he  observes  that  an  early  resumption  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  is  necessary 
and encourages Member States to move the process to 
text-based negotiations.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  readiness  of  our 
delegation  to  work  closely  with  the  President  and  the 
20/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  towards 
meaningful progress in our work ahead.
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  I  thank  you, 
Madam,  for  giving  me  the  floor  to  participate  in  this 
debate on the question of increase in the membership of 
the Security Council. We have the honour to be one of 
the later speakers, and we have had the benefit of being 
able to reflect upon some of the important and salient 
points that have been raised by those who spoke before 
us here.
Views  have  been  expressed  as  to  the  reasons  for 
the need for the Security Council to be reformed. Many 
characterizations  have  been  presented,  including  the 
fact that the Council is unrepresentative, undemocratic 
and  stuck  in  a  bygone  era.  That  is  undoubtedly  the 
characterization  put  forward  in  this  important  organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  General  Assembly.  Some 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  in  particular  the 
permanent members themselves, have agreed that there 
is need for reform. The difference is with regard how 
we  actually  implement  or  carry  out  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  one  of  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations.
The  decision  that  was  taken  at  the  2005  World 
Summit  (see  resolution  60/1)  agreed  in  part  with  the 
characterization that was just made today regarding the 
current configuration of the Security Council. But what 
is important about the decision is its call for the early 
reform of the Council. It has been 10 years since that 
decision was taken. Do we, as the General Assembly, 
really  believe  that  10  years  can  still  be  characterized 
as  early?  Surely,  it  cannot  be.  That  also  raises  the 
question of why we have not moved forward since then. 
The  Permanent  Representative  of  Papua  New  Guinea 
correctly  reflected  on  how  some  of  the  decisions  that 
were  taken  2005  have  been  implemented  and  some 
structures  created,  but  with  regard  to  the  Security 
Council, there alone, there has there been no movement.
An  overwhelming  number  of  speakers  before 
me,  including  the  five  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council, have agreed on the need for reform 
with  regard  to  both  categories  of  membership.  That 
is  an  undisputable  fact;  anybody  who  is  keeping  the 
records can take note of that. Many of us have spoken 
of the need to take advantage of the looming seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  I  think  it  is  very 
important that we all agree on this. We are following in 
the footsteps of our leaders, who were here just a little 
more than a month ago, in September, and who spoke 
on precisely this point: the need for us to adopt concrete 
proposals  that  will  ensure  that  when  we  celebrate  the 
seventieth anniversary of our Organization, we will be 
able to take measures for the reform of that important 
principal organ, the Security Council.
Since  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  began 
more than six years ago, we have expressed our views 
and  stated  and  restated  and  rehashed  our  positions.
Many  of  us,  and  all  of  us  here,  know  one  another’s 
positions  as  far  as  reform  is  concerned.  The  question 
is,  since  we  know  one  another’s  positions,  why  is  it 
that we cannot move forward? The truth of the matter 
is that for the past seven years we have not engaged in 
negotiations, in spite of the fact that the process is called 
intergovernmental negotiations. What we have done is 
simply to continue the debate, but in a different format. 
We  have  not  necessarily  got  down  to  the  business  of 
negotiating. Only a few years ago, about 140 countries 
signed a letter calling for text-based negotiations. That 
number  is  clearly  more  than  a  two-thirds  majority  of 
the General Assembly, and that in itself represented a 
clear,  overwhelming  political  commitment  to  moving 
towards negotiations based on a text.
In our view, the sixty-ninth session has to be a major 
turning point as far as reform of the Security Council 
is concerned, for the same simple reason: the following 
session  will  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations. It cannot be that we will go beyond 70 
years  since  the  Organization’s  establishment  and  still 
maintain the Security Council’s current configuration 
in spite of all the global challenges to peace and security 
we are currently facing.
Views  have  been  raised  about  decision  62/557.  In 
our view, it was not meant to impede progress; it was 
not meant to veto the process of reforming the Security 
Council.  Rather,  it  was  meant  to  move  the  process 
forward. In that decision, the General Assembly clearly 
and unambiguously identifies five key areas that must 
be addressed in order to reform the Council. That makes 
it very easy to have a text on the table that focuses on 
those areas. We are aware of the concern that we should 
not have a piecemeal approach, that we must agree on all 
of those issues. That was not necessarily the intention 
of that particular decision. Nonetheless, even if that is a 
point, let us have a text so that we can begin to negotiate 
on those five key areas.
None  of  us  here  has  failed  to  express  views  on 
those  five  areas.  We  say  that  because  the  current 
President  of  the  Assembly  has  committed  to  moving 
14-62341
21/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
the process forward, and we welcome his appointment 
of  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica.  It  is  a 
well-considered view that the first round that the new 
facilitator  has  to  convene  should  surely  address  the 
question of a text: what should it look like? We would 
like to congratulate Ambassador Tanin, who has been 
moving this process for the past seven years. Two years 
ago, as we all know, he produced a third revision of the 
document, known as Rev. 3, that sought to reduce all the 
different positions we have on the five key areas. In our 
view, that is not a very difficult exercise; it should be 
one of the easiest. The facilitator, through the authority 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  should  be 
able to move and bring us together, as members of the 
Assembly, to focus on those specific areas.
We cannot bury our heads in the sand and pretend 
that  the  veto  is  not  a  major  issue.  It  is  a  major  issue. 
On  various  occasions  the  five  permanent  members  of 
the Security Council have clearly expressed their views 
on  this  matter.  It  is  clear  that  they  have  difficulties 
with  extending  the  use  of  the  veto  to  new  members. 
The  African  Group,  which  is  guided  by  the  common 
African  position,  has  a  clear  position  on  this,  which 
is  that  we  do  not  believe  in  the  veto.  But  as  long  as 
it  exists,  as  a  matter  of  common  justice  it  should  be 
extended  to  all.  We  understand  the  initiatives  being 
taken  and  proposals  made  for  restraint  on  the  use  of 
veto.  The  challenge  we  have  is  doing  that  outside  the 
broader  concern  for  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council.  In  our  view,  that  is  a  mere  tweaking  of  the 
major challenge, which is not necessarily the utilization 
of  the  veto.  The  major  challenge  is  the  unsustainable 
nature and current composition of the Security Council.
It is our well-considered view that it would indeed 
be a travesty if we passed the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations without agreeing on a concrete way 
forward that will deliver reform of the Security Council. 
We support the view that the new facilitator, under the 
authority  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
should  begin  working  immediately  and  tirelessly  to 
come  up  with  a  text  that  we  can  all  work  on,  a  clear 
road map. We have heard the concerns about artificial 
deadlines.  Surely,  if  more  than  20  years  have  passed 
since  we  identified  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council, it cannot be said that taking advantage of the 
seventieth  anniversary  constitutes  setting  artificial 
deadlines.
Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, we are pleased to be able to thank and commend 
involving  numerous  positions 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Represesentative 
of Afghanistan, for his laudable efforts to facilitate and 
guide the process of the intergovernmental negotiations 
over the past five years, during which he showed great 
competence  and  skills  in  orchestrating  multilateral 
negotiations 
in  a 
difficult, complicated task addressing a very important 
issue:  Security  Council  reform.  We  also  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, as the new Chair 
of the intergovernmental negotiations and would like to 
assure him of our support in his new job. We also wish 
to congratulate the new non-permanent members of the 
Council on their election for the biennium 2015-2016.
We  associate  ourselves  with 
the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Iran  and  of  our 
own  country,  Kuwait,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Group of Arab States, respectively 
(see A/69/PV.49).
More than 20 years have elapsed since discussions 
began  on  expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  improving  its  working  methods.  Many 
initiatives  and  ideas  have  been  launched.  The  issue 
is  still  stalled,  however,  and  needs  the  political  will 
required to bridge differences and achieve the desired 
goals.
in 
The  ongoing  challenges 
the  political  and 
international arena prompt us to make further efforts to 
improve the negotiation track and affirm our collective 
action.  The  desired  objective  is  very  lofty  and  noble, 
and it includes the entire international community. That 
is why any proposals for the expansion and reform of 
the Security Council must have general agreement, or 
at least a great measure of consensus.
Over  the  past  years  the  position  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait  on  Security  Council  reform  has  been  one  of 
principle, based on the following foundations.
First,  the  question  of  Security  Council  reform 
must be handled in accordance with a general concept 
aimed  at  continuing  to  reform  all  the  organs  of  the 
United Nations and seeking to render the work of the 
Organization more complementary and more balanced. 
That should be done while focusing on developing the 
Security Council’s relationships with the other bodies, 
such  as  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, without infringing on their mandates. 
The Council should confine its role to the tasks assigned 
22/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
to it by the Charter of the United Nations, which is the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Secondly,  any  ideas  put  forward  to  reform  the 
Council must stem from our commitment to enable the 
Council to become more representative of the Member 
States and must reflect the international reality, which 
has  changed  a  great  deal  since  the  inception  of  the 
United Nations in 1945.
Thirdly, it is very important to continue to improve 
the  Council’s  working  methods,  to  imbue  its  work 
with more transparency and clarity and to ensure that 
permanent and official rules of procedure are adopted 
to organize and approve the working methods.
Fourthly,  the  question  of  the  veto  must  be  placed 
within constraints and limits that codify the use of that 
right, such as the use of the veto only on the questions 
included under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Fifthly,  any  increase  in  the  membership  of  the 
Council  must  take  into  account  the  need  to  give 
greater  opportunity  for  small  States  to  accede  to  the 
membership  of  the  Council  and  to  contribute  to  its 
work.  Also,  the  right  of  the  Arab  and  Islamic  States 
to  representation  commensurate  with  their  number, 
importance and contributions in defending the purposes 
and principles of the Charter should not be overlooked. 
With regard to improving the working methods of the 
Council, including the calls to rationalize the exercise 
of  the  veto,  the  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  French 
proposal  regarding  limiting  the  exercise  of  the  veto 
in  questions  of  crimes  against  humanity  through  the 
voluntary  abstention  by  the  five  permanent  member 
States from exercising their veto.
the 
intergovernmental 
negotiations of the General Assembly is the only forum 
in which to achieve an agreement on the expansion and 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  in  accordance  with 
decision 62/557. That decision established the basis for 
negotiations and their ownership by the Member States.
The  accelerating  challenges  and  the  interrelated 
questions faced by the international community make 
us  more  resolved  to  intensify  efforts  to  enhance  the 
role of the Council so as to render it more capable and 
effective  in  overcoming  challenges,  as  well  as  more 
representative, transparent, impartial and credible.
We  underscore 
that 
Ms. Beck (Solomon Islands): Let me, through you, 
Madam President, thank and congratulate the President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session for 
convening  this  plenary  meeting  on  agenda  item  119, 
entitled  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters”.
Solomon 
Islands  would 
associate 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  Her  Excellency 
Ambassador  Menissa 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
Group (see A/69/PV.49).
Rambally, 
like 
to 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  remains  an 
essential  and  integral  element  of  our  overall  effort  to 
reform our multilateral system. It has eluded us over the 
years despite the wealth of ideas that have been collated 
during that time.
Solomon  Islands  registers  its  appreciation  of  the 
President for his taking a fresh look at where we are in 
the negotiations and giving the matter high priority on 
the agenda of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session. My delegation appreciates his commitment to 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  by  appointing  the 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, His Excellency 
Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  as  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  lead  us  forward  on 
this important process.
We  congratulate  Ambassador  Rattray  and  assure 
him  of  our  support.  We  trust  that  his  leadership  will 
guide  us  to  make  tangible  progress  in  reforming  the 
Council and to make it relevant to the challenges of the 
twenty-first century. We need to make tangible progress, 
especially as we move to the seventieth anniversary of 
this body next year. Also on that note, we acknowledge 
and  thank  Ambassador  Tanin  of  Afghanistan  for  his 
leadership  and  guidance  on  Security  Council  reform 
and in the intergovernmental negotiation process.
The  work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiation 
process is guided by the Charter of the United Nations, 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), the 
relevant rules of procedures and past practice. Decision 
62/557  identifies  the  five  key  negotiable  elements. 
Last  year,  under  the  leadership  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session, 
His  Excellency  Ambassador  Ashe,  a  non-paper  was 
produced that compiled all our positions. It now needs 
to be put forward as a basis for a negotiable text.
We  live  and  operate  in  a  fast-changing  world. 
We  have  already  seen  deep  integration  within  some 
regions of our Organizaton that have already developed 
14-62341
23/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
a common foreign policy. That needs to be taken into 
consideration  in  any  reform  outcome.  We  must  also 
avoid  coming  to  the  negotiations  with  conditions  that 
put  the  negotiation  process  in  a  straightjacket.  We 
call  on  everyone  to  come  to  the  table  with  a  vision 
to  strengthen  the  Council’s  role  in  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  and  ensure  that 
structural change in the Council happens.
The  position  of  Solomon  Islands  on  the  five 
Security Council reform elements has been stated and 
restated  over  the  years.  Those  are  the  question  of  the 
veto,  regional  representation,  the  size  of  an  enlarged 
Council, the relationship between the Council and the 
General Assembly, and the working methods.
On the question of the veto, we would like to see it 
abolished. In the event that it is retained, however, the 
rights and privileges of the veto should be accorded to 
all new members. That is to ensure that everyone on a 
permanent seat is on equal footing. The use of the veto 
is also linked to having improved working methods that 
provide for a limitation on the use of the veto.
On 
the  enlargement  of 
the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories,  Solomon  Islands  supports 
enlargement in both. We would like to see a sixth seat 
in the non-permanent-seat category.
On the regional question, with regard to equitable 
geographical representation for the permanent seat, we 
would like special attention to be given to regions that are 
not represented and regions that are underrepresented.
On  the  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly,  we  would  also  like  to  see  that 
improved.
Finally,  I  conclude  by  saying  that  we  need  a 
reformed  Security  Council  to  match  the  twenty-first 
century realities. Solomon Islands, like all other reform-
minded countries, stands ready to engage in reforming 
the  Security  Council.  We  hope  to  see  progress  in  the 
negotiations,  done  in  good  faith  with  mutual  respect 
and in an open, inclusive and transparent manner.
Mr.  Bhattarai  (Nepal):  At  the  outset,  allow  me 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, for his letter of 10 November 
2014,  which  underscores  yet  again  the  need  to  make 
progress on the reform of the Security Council, as well 
as for convening this important meeting today. We thank 
him,  as  well,  for  appointing  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray  of  Jamaica  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  in  the  course  of  the  Assembly’s  current 
session. Nepal appreciates the President’s determination 
and  welcomes  those  important  steps,  which  are  in 
keeping  with  the  Assembly’s  decision  at  the  previous 
session to immediately continue the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  in  informal 
plenary at the sixty-ninth session.
In 
that 
I  wish 
connection, 
to  commend 
Ambassador Rattray on his appointment and to thank 
him for assuming the responsibility in the run-up to the 
world summit next year on the occasion of the seventieth 
anniversary of the Organization, and to encourage him 
to employ all his talents to make definite progress. I am 
confident  that,  with  the  President’s  wisdom  and  trust 
and  with  his  own  diplomatic  experience  and  skills, 
Ambassador  Rattray  will  prove  to  be  instrumental  in 
making headway in this much-awaited, but also much-
stalled, crucial matter in the United Nations system. I 
wish to take this opportunity to pledge my delegation’s 
full  support  and  cooperation  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  Ambassador  Rattray  in  all 
their sincere efforts to that end.
I  consider  it  fitting  to  recall  here  how  diligently 
and  admirably  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan chaired the intergovernmental negotiations 
over the past six years. During the Assembly’s previous 
session,  then  President  John  Ashe  and  Ambassador 
Tanin  worked  very  hard  in  ways  that  deserve  our 
sincere tribute.
Today  I  do  not  wish  to  repeat  the  rationales  for 
introducing  reforms  in  the  Security  Council’s  present 
structure, which dates back to 1963, when the United 
Nations  had  only  117  Members  as  opposed  to  the 
current 193. They are well known and have been well 
articulated  under  the  broad  themes  of  structure  and 
working  methods.  The  key  words  in  the  debate  on 
reforms  have  been  representativeness,  effectiveness, 
transparency, legitimacy and relations with the General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  with  the  non-members  of  the 
Council.
Yet the reform is all too conspicuous by its absence. 
The Assembly’s active deliberations on Security Council 
reform  during  10  rounds  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  as  well  as  the  preceding  Open-ended 
Working  Group  process,  have  taken  hundreds  of 
meetings  over  the  past  20  years,  involving  enormous 
amounts of time, energy and other resources. We must 
build  on  the  momentum  in  a  results-oriented  manner 
to  justify  all  that  has  been  invested  so  far  in  search 
24/26 
14-62341
12/11/2014 
A/69/PV.50
of  meaningful  progress.  That  can  be  done  only  when 
we focus on points of convergence and enter into real 
negotiations.
What has been seen throughout the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  is  an  expression  of  the  collective 
will of the large majority of Member States, articulated 
separately  or  through  various  groups  of  like-minded 
countries,  to  expand  Security  Council  membership 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories. 
Nepal supports the idea of the expansion of membership 
in both categories. Expanding the permanent category 
should  be  able  to  correct  the  historical  wrong  that 
Africa has had to endure from the very beginning, so 
as  to  make  the  Council  membership  representative  of 
the present-day membership in the General Assembly, 
to  correct  the  underrepresentation  of  the  developing 
countries  and  to  reflect  the  present-day  capability  to 
carry  out  the  requisite  responsibility  for  maintaining 
international peace and security.
Nepal  believes  the  aspirations  of  India,  Japan, 
Germany and Brazil to acquire permanent membership 
in the Council are in tune with the present-day reality. In 
the case of non-permanent membership, Nepal believes 
there should be a fair and judicious principle of rotation 
on  a  regional  and  subregional  basis  as  well.  Among 
many  criteria,  the  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  should  be  taken  into 
account, especially when the contributing countries are 
relatively small and landlocked. In fact, it is important 
that the landlocked developing countries be represented 
as a special constituency, given their special, permanent 
feature of hardship with serious security implications.
With  regard  to  the  veto,  Nepal  believes  that 
provision  has  outlived  whatever  utility  it  had  and 
should  be  abolished  entirely.  As  long  as  it  continues 
to  exist,  the  veto  power  should  not  be  used  to  create 
additional tiers of members other than permanent and 
non-permanent members as at present, even when the 
Council is expanded. The threat of the use of the veto, 
which is many times instrumental in undermining the 
credibility  and  the  real  utility  of  the  Council,  should 
be  tamed.  The  proposal  of  France  for  a  voluntary 
moratorium  on  the  veto  would  be  a  very  good  step 
forward in that direction.
On the size of the expanded Council, it should not 
be so big that it compromises the Council’s efficiency, 
and should not be so small that it cannot have the due 
representative  character.  The  ideal  number  would 
be  around  24,  as  that  should  also  ensure  that  each 
member, including the non-permanent, could preside at 
least once over the work of an expanded Council for a 
one-month period during the country’s two-year term 
in the Council.
My  delegation  understands  the  concern  as  well 
as  the  high  degree  of  determination  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  make  progress  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process so that we can 
all  collectively  deliver  what  our  leaders  envision  for 
us to  do  by  2015  in  reforming  the  Security  Council. 
Nepal  believes  that  the  President  and  the  Chair  of 
intergovernmental negotiations should do what it takes 
to  keep  up  the  current  momentum,  with  a  tangible 
instrument at hand to begin with.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  congratulating  the  newly 
elected  non-permanent  members  of 
the  Security 
Council:  Angola,  Malaysia,  New  Zealand,  Spain 
and  Venezuela.  Nepal  believes  their  presence  will 
significantly influence the Council in its work, and we 
wish them all a very successful tenure in the Council 
during 2015 and 2016.
Mr. Rattray (Jamaica): I appreciate the opportunity 
to make some brief remarks at the end of this meeting. 
At  the  outset,  permit  me  to  convey  my  thanks  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  appointing 
me  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  I  am  humbled 
and  honoured  by  the  trust  and  responsibility  that 
has  been  placed  in  me,  and  I  assure  the  Assembly  of 
my  commitment  to  undertake  the  assignment  with 
diligence, perseverance and the utmost respect for the 
views of the membership of the Organization.
I  wish  to  recognize  the  committed  work  of  my 
predecessor and good friend, Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
who has done yeoman’s service in advancing the cause 
of  Security  Council  reform.  The  membership  of  the 
Assembly  owes  him  a  great  debt  of  gratitude  for  the 
tireless and faithful efforts he has made over the past 
years.
I  very  much  appreciate 
the  expressions  of 
congratulation  and  support  offered  by  my  colleagues, 
for  which  I  am  most  grateful.  I  pledge  my  intention 
to  foster  an  environment  in  which  all  ideas  and 
views  can  be  considered  on  an  equal  basis,  in  a 
constructive  atmosphere  and  reinforced  by  mutual 
respect  —  an  environment  conducive  to  creative 
thinking and characterized by openness, transparency 
and flexibility.
14-62341
25/26
A/69/PV.50 
12/11/2014
There  can  be  no  question  that  our  collective  and 
long-running  endeavour 
to  accomplish  Security 
Council reform represents one of the highest priorities 
of  our  membership.  Paradoxically  —  or  perhaps 
because that is the case — this enterprise also reflects 
one of the most challenging processes we have pursued. 
Although I am realistic about the prospects for success, 
I  am  nonetheless  aware  that  it  would  be  impossible 
to  achieve  results  in  the  absence  of  the  hope  that  our 
aspirations for reform will ultimately be realized. The 
expectation is that all Member States will come to the 
negotiating table imbued with a spirit of good faith and 
certain  that  that  which  may  appear  to  be  beyond  our 
reach is in fact well within our grasp.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. It is particularly apt 
that  we  should  have  heard  from  the  new  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 119.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
26/26 
14-62341
