United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
53rd plenary meeting
Monday, 17 November 2014, 3.10 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 111 (continued)
Election to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/69/230)
List of candidates (A/69/253)
Curricula vitae (A/69/254)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware,  there  is 
still one vacancy on the Court to be filled.
I  should  like  to  inform  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  I  have  received  a  letter  from  Her 
Excellency  Mrs.  María  Cristina  Perceval,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Argentina  to  the  United  Nations, 
dated 11 November 2014, communicating the decision 
of  the  Government  of  Argentina  to  withdraw  the 
nomination of Ms. Susana Ruiz Cerutti for election to 
the International Court of Justice. The letter has been 
circulated as document A/69/575.
I have also received a letter from the Legal Counsel, 
dated  14  November  2014,  informing  me,  on  behalf  of 
the  Secretary-General,  that  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Argentina to the United Nations communicated to the 
Legal Counsel that the decision to withdraw Ms. Ruiz 
Cerutti’s candidacy has been conveyed to the national 
groups that nominated her through their Missions. No 
objections have been received.
The  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  vote  with 
respect to the remaining vacancy.
I should like to remind representatives that, pursuant 
to rule 88 of the Assembly’s rules of procedure,
“After 
the  President  has  announced 
the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order  in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.”
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers will now be distributed.
Only 
the  candidate  whose  name  appears  on 
the  ballot  paper  is  eligible.  I  would  like  to  remind 
delegations  that  only  the  name  of  the  candidate  that 
appears  on  the  ballot  paper  should  be  marked  with  a 
cross.  Any  ballot  paper  on  which  there  is  more  than 
one name will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only for the name that appears on the ballot paper.
At the invitation of the President, Ms. Mohd Salleh 
(Brunei Darussalam), Mr. Díaz Reina (Colombia), 
Mr.  Cohen  (Netherlands),  Mr.  Stefanik  (Poland), 
Mr.  Madut  (South  Sudan)  and  Ms.  Lyngdorf 
(Sweden) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.20  p.m.  and 
resumed at 3.45 p.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-63057 (E)
*1463057*
A/69/PV.53 
17/11/2014
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
189
0
189
4
185
 97
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson (Jamaica)   185
Mr.  Patrick  Lipton  Robinson  has  obtained  an 
absolute majority in the General Assembly.
I have communicated the result of the voting to the 
President of the Security Council.
I have also received a letter from the President of 
the Security Council, which reads:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that  at  the 
7313th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
17  November  2014,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
one  member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for a term of office beginning on 6 February 2015, 
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson obtained an absolute 
majority of votes.”
in  the  General  Assembly  and 
As  a  result  of  the  voting  that  has  taken  place 
independently 
the 
Security  Council,  Mr.  Patrick  Lipton  Robinson  has 
obtained  an  absolute  majority  in  both  bodies.  The 
following  five  candidates  have  therefore  obtained 
an  absolute  majority  in  both  bodies:  Mr.  Mohamed 
Bennouna,  Mr.  James  Richard  Crawford,  Ms.  Joan 
E.  Donoghue,  Mr.  Kirill  Gevorgian  and  Mr.  Patrick 
Lipton  Robinson.  They  are  therefore  duly  elected 
members of the International Court of Justice to serve 
for a nine-year term commencing on 6 February 2015. 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend to them 
the congratulations of the Assembly on their election, 
and to thank the tellers for their assistance.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (c) 
of agenda item 111?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m.
2/2 
14-63057
