United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
34th plenary meeting
Thursday, 30 October 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Boureima 
(Niger), Vice-President, too the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 70 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice (A/69/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/337)
Ms.  Argüello  González  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Mr.  Peter  Tomka, 
for the report (A/69/4) he presented this morning (see 
A/69/PV.33).
Among 
the 
tribunals 
international 
Nicaragua aligns itself with the statement made by 
the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/69/PV.33).
that  have 
proliferared in recent decades, the International Court 
of Justice continues to play a unique role for States with 
regard  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between 
them.  Nicaragua  is  an  especially  strong  believer  in 
international 
the  exceptional 
contribution  that  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
Organization  has  made  in  strengthening  international 
law. 
law  and  recognizes 
Of the 13 cases in the Court’s Registry, Nicaragua 
is a party as an actor and/or a defendant in five, two of 
which are pending oral hearings that have already been 
the 
Regarding 
scheduled for 2015. In all the cases to which my country 
has  been  a  party,  it  has  always  faithfully  fulfilled  its 
international obligations. We expect reciprocity in the 
fulfilment of the obligation to abide by the rulings of 
the International Court of Justice in cases in which it 
is party, while we recall that the existence of a dispute 
shall not permit the use of force or threat of force by 
any of the States parties to the dispute.
recognition  of 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction, it is notable that in 2014 a record number 
of  complaints,  seven  in  total,  have  been  registered  in 
which  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  based  on  the  future 
consent  of  the  defendant.  The  situation  created  by 
such  requests  underscores  the  importance  of  States 
complying  with  their  commitments  to  promoting  the 
rule of law at the international level and the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. The latter is an obligation under 
the Charter and the former is a commitment of Member 
States  reaffirmed  every  year,  particularly  at  the  2012 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(see A/67/PV.3-A/67/PV.5).
In that regard, it is worth recalling that the General 
Assembly  has  noted  on  more  than  one  occasion  that 
recourse  to  the  judicial  settlement  of  legal  disputes, 
in  particular  their  referral  to  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  should  not  be  considered  an  unfriendly 
act  between  States.  Nicaragua  therefore  considers  it 
worthwhile to reflect on the opportunity presented by 
this exceptional situation of demands based on future 
consent, which highlights precisely the importance of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59737 (E)
*1459737*
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
promoting the acceptance of the obligatory jurisdiction 
of the Court by all States.
In  that  regard,  Nicaragua  is  pleased  that  every 
year a State joins in recognizing the Court’s obligatory 
jurisdiction  through  the  declaration  provided  in  the 
Statute.  However,  we  regret  that  the  number  of  such 
statements  -  70  -  is  still  rather  low  in  comparison  to 
the  193  States  Members  of  the  Organization.  The 
celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the Court, 
scheduled  for  18  April  2016,  will  provide  a  unique 
opportunity  for  more  States  to  make  their  statements 
in  accordance  with  the  Statute  or  to  withdraw  their 
reservations  prior  to  said  actions.  In  so  doing,  States 
can  contribute  to  making  the  celebration  even  more 
meaningful with a record number of recognitions of the 
Court’s jurisdiction.
In terms of its budget, it is clear that the increase 
in  the  Court’s  workload -  which  is  reflected  not  only 
in the seven new cases registered this period  but also 
in  the  increasing  complexity  of  the  subjects  of  the 
current cases, which require complex technical counsel 
- suggests the need to adjust the financial and human 
resources of that institution to today’s reality. That is 
something  our  delegations  must  keep  in  mind  in  the 
discussions of the Fifth Committee in order to provide 
adequate support for its work.
It is worth noting that the lack of adequate resources 
sometimes  means  that  the  Court  has  to  charge  the 
parties  for  the  costs  of  certain  procedures,  such  as 
translations,  which  is  detrimental  to  less  affluent 
countries. Furthermore, one can assume that the Court 
avoids,  where  possible,  the  hiring  of  experts,  which 
can sometimes also be a disadvantage to less affluent 
States.  Similarly,  in  relation  to  budgetary  matters,  in 
these  discussions  we  should  consider  the  importance 
of the publication of rulings and allegations insofar as 
they contribute to the work of dissemination and have 
an important role in the academic sphere. Lastly, I recall 
the need to contribute to the Trust Fund to Assist States 
in the Settlement of Disputes through the International 
Court of Justice.
Today,  there  are  different  sophisticated  threats 
to  international  peace  and  security,  which  remind  us 
of  the  importance  of  developing  friendly  relations 
among nations irrespective of their political, economic 
and social systems or the levels of their development. 
Developing  and  strengthening 
relations 
among  States  is  possible  provided  that  any  dispute 
be  permanently  resolved  by  the  means  provided  in 
friendly 
international law, of which the Court is one of the most 
respected  institutions  and  the  principal  judicial  organ 
of this Organization.
We are grateful for the presentation of the report and 
note that, although much remains to be done to ensure 
respect for justice and international law, we have before 
us invaluable opportunities that we must seize in order 
to  achieve  peace,  which  is  the  fundamental  purpose 
of the United Nations and the permanent aspiration of 
humankind.
Mr.  Nduhuura  (Uganda):  I  thank  the  President 
very much for the opportunity to address the Assembly 
on this important subject. I wish to start by thanking 
Judge  Tomka,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  for  the  comprehensive  report  (A/69/4)  he 
introduced.
Let me briefly address the issues raised in the report 
in Chapter V, section 2, under the subheading “Armed 
Activities  on  the  Territory  of  the  Congo  (Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  v.  Uganda)”.  The  Court  found 
that  the  parties  were  under  obligation  to  one  another 
to  make  reparations  for  the  injury  caused.  Provisions 
were also made for the parties to come to an agreement 
on the question of reparations. Indeed, it is noted that 
the  parties  have  continued  to  transmit  to  the  Court 
information concerning the negotiations being held to 
settle outstanding issues.
Uganda  continues  to  engage  in  this  process,  as 
there  is  a  mechanism  by  which  this  particular  aspect 
of  the  Court’s  decision  is  being  handled.  A  standing 
negotiating  team  is  seized  with  the  matter  and  we 
continue  to  report  to  the  Court  on  the  status  of  the 
negotiations. The next meeting between the negotiating 
teams will be held on 17 November, and the Court will 
be informed about the progress in that regard.
We welcome the improvements that have resulted 
in  the  efficient  handling  of  matters  before  the  Court. 
The  delivery  of  justice  needs  to  be  timely,  because 
justice delayed is justice denied.
As  an  ardent  believer  in  the  rule  of  law,  Uganda 
supports the work of the International Court of Justice. 
Being  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  continues 
to  play  a  positive  role  in  the  promotion  of  the  rule 
of  law  and  consequently  enhances  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  It  is  noteworthy 
that  during  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  registered 
increased activity, including through its judgments and 
2/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
advisory  opinions.  That  is  a  testament  to  the  esteem 
with which the institution is held, but more importantly, 
to  the  increased  commitment  by  States  to  the  rule  of 
law and the peaceful resolution of contentious matters.
As a result of this engagement, Uganda is living at 
peace with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 
both  States  enjoy  cordial  relations.  That  has  enabled 
the two neighbours to collaborate on various matters of 
mutual interest, for example security and trade. Indeed, 
the existing cordial relations have enabled cross-border 
trade,  interconnecting  roads,  combating  illegal  trade 
in minerals and supplying electricity to some parts of 
eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, to mention 
but a few. Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  will  remain  constructively  engaged  and  will 
periodically report on the progress achieved.
Mr. Elias-Fatile (Nigeria): As Nigeria commiserates 
with  the  Republic  of  Zambia  on  the  death  of  His 
Excellency President Michael Sata on Tuesday, we wish 
to express gratitude to delegations for their condolences 
on  the  death  of  the  spouse  of  Ambassador  Ogwu  on 
Monday.
I thank the President for convening this important 
debate  on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. My delegation is grateful to the President of the 
Court,  Judge  Peter  Tomka,  for  introducing  the  report 
(A/69/4).
Nigeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
earlier today by the Permanent Representative of South 
Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/69/PV.33).
The International Court of Justice is an integral part 
of  the  United  Nations  mechanisms  for  the  promotion 
of the rule of law and international peace and security 
through the administration of international justice with 
independence  and  impartiality.  Nigeria  considers  the 
Court  the  pre-eminent  mechanism  for  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes among States, and it is noteworthy 
that many States have expressed their confidence in the 
ability of the Court to resolve their disputes. The dual 
character of the Court as the principal judicial organ of 
the United Nations and court of unique and universal 
jurisdiction  enables  it  to  render  impartial  decisions 
in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  The  Court’s 
judgements  and  advisory  opinions  have  had  salutary 
effects  on  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  all 
regions.
Under Article 36, paragraphs 2 and 5 of the Statute 
of the Court, States are expected to make declarations 
recognizing the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. 
Yet  Nigeria  notes  with  concern  that  out  of  the  193 
States Members of the United Nations that are parties 
to the Statute of the Court, only 70 have thus far made 
declarations - and some with reservations - in which they 
recognize the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory. 
My  delegation  therefore  encourages  Member  States 
that have yet to submit to the compulsory jurisdiction 
of the Court to endeavour to do so, as that would further 
strengthen the Court’s ability to promote international 
justice and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Nigeria  realizes  the  significance  of  the  Court  in 
the settlement of inter-State disputes on a broad range 
of complex issues, a role that has in no small measure 
contributed to peace and harmony in the world. In view 
of that important function of the Court, Nigeria believes 
that  its  budget  should  be  commensurate  to  its  needs 
and obligations and should support its independence to 
render  vital  services  to  the  international  community. 
We  therefore  note  with  appreciation  that  most  of  the 
budgetary requests of the Court have been accepted by 
the United Nations, thus enabling it to continue to carry 
out its mission unhindered, which is commendable.
As  a  State  party  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and 
having made the declaration recognizing the jurisdiction 
of the Court as compulsory, Nigeria continues to abide 
by  its  commitment  to  the  promotion  of  international 
justice  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  We 
encourage all Member States to continue to offer their 
support to the activities of the Court in order to promote 
international justice and the rule of law.
Mr. Troncoso (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): First of all, 
my delegation would like to express appreciation for the 
work done by the International Court of Justice in the 
period covered by the report that the Court’s President, 
Judge Peter Tomka, introduced earlier (A/69/4). In the 
reporting  period,  the  Court  had  the  opportunity  to 
decide, in exercise of its jurisdiction, matters relating to 
such diverse subjects as maritime delimitation, whaling 
in  Antarctic  waters  and  interpretation  of  the  Court’s 
own rulings, among many others.
The  Court,  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United Nations, plays a vital and irreplaceable role in 
the interpretation and application of international law, 
providing  its  decisions  for  the  settlement  of  disputes 
and creating jurisprudence that is a contribution to the 
14-59737
3/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
accurate  determination  of  the  applicable  international 
law. We therefore believe that States should decisively 
support the work of the Court.
Chile  has  recognized  in  various  international 
instruments  the  jurisdiction  of  this  high  Court  and 
appreciates  that  the  mandatory  settlement  of  disputes 
is  linked  to  those  international  instruments  that  by 
their  jurisdictional  clauses  allow  for  recourse  to  a 
mechanism to overcome differences that may arise in 
their application. The role that the Pact of Bogotá has 
been  playing  as  a  basis  for  the  Court’s  jurisdiction, 
has been highlighted, and in homage to it, my country 
reiterates  once  again  the  doctrine  that  the  Pact  was 
negotiated  with  the  conviction  that  it  cannot  be 
applied  to  deal  with  matters  already  settled  by  prior 
arrangement  between  the  parties,  by  arbitral  decision 
or by ruling of an international tribunal, or which are 
governed by agreements or treaties in force on the date 
of the conclusion of that instrument.
Also  central  for  my  country 
is  respect  for 
international law, in particular international treaties. In 
that spirit, we have complied in good faith with the recent 
ruling of the International Court of Justice that affected 
us, as well as rulings of other international tribunals. In 
that context, I would like reiterate the statement made 
by my country on 27 January this year, after reading the 
Judgment delivered by the International Court of Justice 
in  the  maritime  delimitation  case,  Maritime  Dispute 
(Peru  v.  Chile).  At  that  time,  without  prejudice  to  its 
disagreement  with  certain  elements  of  the  decision, 
Chile  agreed  to  implement  the  Judgement,  stressing 
those  aspects  that  required  work  by  the  parties  for  a 
complete implementation.
Consequently,  we  proceeded,  together  with  Peru, 
in  the  joint  development  of  the  cartography  for 
determining  the  exact  geographical  coordinates  of 
the  maritime  boundary  points  set  forth  by  the  Court, 
in  a  spirit  of  good-neighbourliness,  as  ordered  by  the 
Court in its Judgment. In that regard, it is noteworthy 
that  both  Governments  have  said  they  will  make  a 
joint delivery to the United Nations of the cartography 
produced  by  their  efforts.  At  the  same  time,  they  are 
pursuing  regulatory  changes  for  a  more  effective 
application of the law of the sea, in accordance with the 
spirit and terms of the aforementioned Judgment of the 
International Court of Justice.
My  country  is  now  facing  an  application  filed 
in  the  Court  by  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
requesting  that  Chile  be  obligated  to  negotiate  with 
Bolivia a sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. Chile, 
in  full  respect  of  international  law  and,  in  particular, 
the  provisions  of  the  Pact  of  Bogotá  and  the  Statute 
of the Court and its Rules, has submitted preliminary 
objections to the jurisdiction of the Court in the case, 
which can be properly resolved by the Court itself.
Finally,  we  believe  it  important  to  provide  strong 
support  for  the  dissemination  of  the  significant  work 
done  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  In  this 
regard,  we  recall  the  settled  position  in  this  body, 
namely,  the  need  for  Spanish  language  versions  of 
judgments  issued  by  the  Court,  as  well  as  the  need 
to  increase  opportunities  for  academic  meetings  in 
different parts of the world to address the key problems 
and future challenges that international law is facing, 
and in particular the judicial settlement of disputes, of 
which the International Court of Justice is an essential 
tool.
Mr.  Koncke  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, for 
introducing the annual report on the Court’s activities 
(see  A/69/PV.33).  The  report  (A/69/4)  highlights  the 
Court’s important work during the year and reflects the 
international community’s confidence in it as a peaceful 
means  of  settling  disputes.  Each  year,  the  increase  in 
the number of cases and the Court’s judgements serve 
to confirm its prestige as the organ entrusted with the 
settlement of international disputes and to reaffirm its 
role as the main judicial organ of the United Nations.
Since  the  Court’s  establishment,  my  country, 
Uruguay,  has  championed  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes through all of its actions, in accordance with 
the Charter of the United Nations. Among the measures 
listed in Article 33 of the Charter, today we highlight in 
particular judicial settlements or the use of international 
tribunals  to  provide  justice  by  settling  disputes  in 
accordance  with  international  law.  We  observe  that 
through  both  the  direct  initiatives  of  countries  and 
the provisions incorporated into international treaties, 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  has  gradually  been  extended. 
Reason,  justice  and  law  have  thereby  gained  ground 
over arbitrary actions and the use of force.
Uruguay  is  proud  to  have  been  the  first  country 
in the world to have accepted the binding jurisdiction 
of the International Court of Justice, in the year of its 
creation.  In  fact,  it  did  so  at  the  beginning  of  1921, 
when  the  Court’s  predecessor,  the  Permanent  Court 
of International Justice, was created in the framework 
4/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
of  the  League  of  Nations.  That  action  has  guided 
Uruguay’s  international  conduct  and  commitment  to 
the peaceful settlement of disputes, the primacy of the 
rule of law and justice without conditions, except those 
established under international law.
In  that  vein,  we  wish  to  highlight  that  two  years 
ago  my  country  began  working  with  Switzerland,  the 
Netherlands  and  the  United  Kingdom  —  later  joined 
by  Lithuania,  Japan  and  Botswana,  as  countries 
representing  all  of 
the  United  Nations  regional 
groups — in drafting a manual to assist the Members of 
the Organization in gradually adopting the compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  The 
manual  was  completed  by  mid-year  and  to  date  has 
been translated into three of the official languages of 
the United Nations. It is also currently being translated 
into the remaining official languages in order to reach 
all Member States.
The  manual  is  directed  mainly  at  Government 
officials  dealing  with  issues  involving  international 
justice, with practical examples, in order to contribute 
to  future  decision-making  related  to  the  acceptance 
of  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  task  represents  no  less  than  the 
commitment of that group of countries to international 
justice  and  its  adoption  as  the  primary  system  for 
resolving international disputes.
Without a doubt, resort to the International Court 
of Justice has contributed and continues to contribute 
to avoiding confrontations and conflicts that, prior to 
its existence, were usually resolved by the use of force. 
In other areas, we are aware that the advisory opinions 
referred to in Article 96 of the Charter and Chapter IV 
of the Statute of the International Court of Justice have 
shed  light  on  legal  gray  areas.  Furthermore,  we  have 
noticed that no advisory opinions have been requested 
from  the  Court  since  2010.  In  our  view,  it  would  be 
interesting  to  explore  the  possibility  of  extending  the 
Court’s  advisory  competence  through  consultations 
involving Member States.
the  Court’s 
We  cherish  the  hope  that  ever  more  States  will 
accept 
their 
differences,  thereby  placing  international  justice  in 
the  place  of  distinction  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.
jurisdiction 
in  settling 
Ms.  Hamilton  (United  States  of  America):  We 
would like to thank President Tomka for his leadership 
as President of the International Court of Justice, and 
for  the  recent  report  regarding  the  activities  of  the 
Court over the past year (A/69/4). 
We are again struck by how productive the Court 
continues  to  be.  Over  the  past  year,  the  Court  issued 
three judgments and 13 orders. In addition, the Court 
has  in  its  pipeline  7  new  contentious  cases,  bringing 
to 13 the number of cases on the Court’s docket. They 
cover a very wide range of issues.
The International Court of Justice is the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Preamble 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  underscores  the 
determination  of  its  drafters  “to  establish  conditions 
under  which  justice  and  respect  for  the  obligations 
arising from treaties and other sources of international 
law can be maintained”. That goal lies at the core of the 
Charter system, and in particular the role of the Court. 
Taking stock today, as we approach its seventieth 
anniversary,  it  is  clear  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice has made significant contributions in multiple 
areas of international law.
We  were  interested  to  note  that,  as  President  Tomka 
explained  in  his  introduction  of  the  report  (see 
A/69/PV.33), the cases referred to the Court are growing 
in factual and legal complexity and frequently involve 
a  number  of  phases.  We  commend  the  care  taken  by 
the Court in developing its approach to fact-finding. We 
think that the application of rigorous processes to fact-
finding will increase confidence in the Court. We are also 
interested to see the number of requests for provisional 
measures, and the Court has taken commendable steps 
to put itself in a position to respond. We hope that the 
Court will continue to receive appropriate resources for 
carrying out its important functions.
We  also  want 
to  remark  upon 
the  Court’s 
continued  public  outreach  to  educate  key  sectors  of 
society — law professors and students, judicial officers 
and Government officials, and the general public — on 
the work of the Court and to increase understanding of 
that work. From a transparency standpoint, we note in 
particular that the Court’s recordings are now available 
to watch, live and on demand, on United Nations Web 
TV. All those efforts complement and expand the efforts 
of the United Nations to promote the rule of law globally 
and a better understanding of public international law.
We  look  forward  to  celebrating,  in  less  than  two 
years, the Court’s seventieth anniversary, shortly after 
the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations itself. 
It  will  be  an  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  impressive 
14-59737
5/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
legal  jurisprudence  developed  by  the  Court.  We  also 
want  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  hard  work 
of  President  Tomka,  the  other  judges  who  currently 
serve on the Court and all the members of the Court’s 
staff who contribute on a daily basis to the continuing 
productive work of that institution.
been  resolved  early  by  the  mere  fact  that  one  party 
suggested  submitting  the  dispute  to  the  Court.  In 
addition,  practice  shows  that  the  disputes  submitted 
to  the  Court  have  sometimes  been  resolved  not  by  a 
decision of the Court, but simply because preliminary 
measures have helped to resolve them.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me first to thank Judge Peter Tomka, President of the 
International Court of Justice, for his briefing and for 
the  report  (A/69/4)  describing  the  Court’s  work  from 
1 August 2013 to 31 July this year. I would also like to 
acknowledge  those  judges  who  are  present  among  us 
today.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/69/PV.33). I will make the following comments 
in my national capacity.
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  established 
by the Charter of the United Nations, is the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  the  only 
international jurisdiction of a universal character that 
has  dual  jurisdiction  dealing  with  contentious  cases 
and  advisory  proceedings.  That  makes  it  the  most 
accessible  and  the  most  solicited  in  its  rulings  on  the 
litigation of disputes between States. At the request of 
States exercising their sovereignty, the Court rules on 
a bilateral or trilateral disputes. That shows that States 
have trust in the Court. We should not surprised, then, 
to see that as of 31 July, 193 States were party to the 
Statute of the Court. Similarly, more than 300 bilateral 
or multilateral treaties and conventions provide for the 
Court’s jurisdiction in adjudicating disputes regarding 
their application or interpretation.
As for the advisory opinions, besides the Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  -  which  under 
Article  96,  paragraph  1  of  the  Charter  are  authorized 
to  request  advisory  opinions  from  the  Court  on  any 
legal question - the Economic and Social Council, the 
Trusteeship  Council,  the  Interim  Committee  of  the 
General Assembly and international organizations have 
used the services of the Court. Consequently, due to its 
independence and impartiality, the International Court 
of Justice has established itself as the ultimate judicial 
body of the United Nations system.
The  influence  of  the  Court  goes  well  beyond  the 
judgments and opinions it issues. Many disputes have 
In  that  respect,  one  can  cite  as  an  example  the 
case  Armed  Activities  on  the  Territory  of  the  Congo 
(Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  v.  Uganda)  where, 
following the Judgment of the Court, the two parties 
“were  under  obligation  to  one  another  to  make 
reparation  for  the  injury  caused.  It  decided  that, 
failing agreement between the parties, the question 
of  reparation  would  be  settled  by  the  Court  and 
reserved for this purpose the subsequent procedure 
in the case. Since then, the parties have transmitted 
to  the  Court  certain  information  concerning  the 
negotiations they are holding to settle the question 
of reparation, as referred to in points (6) and (14) of 
the operative clause of the judgment and paragraphs 
260, 261”, etc. (A/69/4, para. 79).
Similarly,  Ecuador  and  Colombia  thanked  the 
Court for its contribution to the amiable resolution of 
their dispute on the aerial spraying of herbicides.
As  indicated  in  the  report,  in  accordance  with 
article 89, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Rules of Court, the 
President of the Court made an order on 13 September 
2013  recording  the  discontinuance  by  Ecuador  of  the 
proceedings and directing the removal of the case from 
the Court’s list.
Thus  the  Court  performs  a  function  that  is  an 
incentive  to  negotiation  by  administering  a  kind  of 
transactional  justice  to  the  parties,  giving  them  an 
opportunity  to  settle  their  dispute  by  themselves 
through negotiation. In doing so, the Court has rendered 
an  invaluable  service  to  the  parties  to  disputes  and 
performed a valuable role in facilitating negotiation.
Moreover, the activity of the Court as a whole is part 
of the search for peaceful settlement of disputes, on the 
one hand, and promoting the rule of law, on the other. 
Its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  will  necessarily 
contribute to the clarification of international law and 
make a very important contribution to the primacy of 
law for the sake of peace. Moreover, the Court plays a 
very  important  and  beneficial  role  complementary  to 
that played by the Security Council to ensure that peace 
and international security prevail.
6/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report  the 
Court  was  seized  of  7  new  contentious  cases  and 
handed  down  13  orders.  That  shows  that  the  Court  is 
becoming  increasingly  sought  out  on  various  topics 
concerning  various  territorial  and  maritime  disputes, 
violations  of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty, 
genocide, environmental damage and the conservation 
of  biological 
interpretation  and 
implementation  of 
international  conventions  and 
treaties, requests for a halt to the nuclear arms race and 
so  on.  All  that  testifies  to  a  very  positive  assessment 
and a high degree of satisfaction, trust and efficiency, 
which contribute to the universality of the Court.
resources, 
the 
That  vast  area  of  work  requires  the  mobilization 
of  skilled  human  resources  and  adequate  financial 
resources  in  order  to  maintain  a  high  level  of 
effectiveness,  quality  and  impartiality.  The  Court 
has  increasingly  become  part  of  a  dynamic  that 
progressively fits it in with international mores, in the 
interest  of  respect  for  the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law. 
My  delegation  is  therefore  pleased  that  most  of  the 
budgetary  requests  for  the  biennium  2014-2015  were 
met.
The  Court’s  judgments,  advisory  opinions  and 
decisions  deserve  to  be  widely  disseminated  and 
published,  particularly  in  law  schools,  and  especially 
on my continent, Africa, in order to better disseminate 
the  values  of  the  Court  and  the  principles  governing 
the peaceful settlement of disputes and to contribute to 
preventive diplomacy. The President of the Court, the 
Registrar, the judges and senior officials of the Court 
should organize lectures in universities and diplomatic 
academies  in  order  to  make  the  Court’s  work  better 
known.  The  Diplomatic  Academy  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco  will  be  delighted  and  honoured  to  have  the 
President of the Court, the Registrar or its judges come 
to  give  lectures  in  order  to  stimulate  the  intellectual 
curiosity of young diplomats so that they would know 
about  the  role  of  the  Court.  Similarly,  the  Kingdom 
of  Morocco  is  home  to  one  of  the  most  ancient  and 
prestigious universities in the world, the Al-Karaouine 
University,  founded  in  857,  whose  laureates  have 
contributed through their thinking to the evolution of 
international law. The university has a large library that 
contains  manuscript  treasures  and  works  dating  from 
previous  centuries  up  to  the  present  day.  If  we  were 
to have the publications of the Court at the university 
that would be extremely useful to both researchers and 
students, whether Moroccan or foreign.
I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  without  stating 
once again how greatly my delegation appreciates the 
important  role  played  by  the  Court  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  as  well  as 
its  valuable 
contribution in strengthening and interpreting the rules 
of international law.
Mr. Andrianarivelo-Razafy (Madagascar) (spoke 
in  French):  The  delegation  of  Madagascar  associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/69/PV.33).
We  wish  to  express  our  gratitude  to  Judge  Peter 
Tomka, President of the International Court of Justice, 
who  is  present  here,  for  his  outstanding  presentation 
of  the  Court’s  activities  during  the  past  year,  which 
has  allowed  us  to  appreciate  the  efforts  that  organ 
undertook in the performance its tasks. We read with 
interest the report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/69/4).
The  world  is  facing  many  challenges  that  call  for 
our  attention  and  collective  action.  According  to  the 
Charter of the United Nations, the International Court 
of Justice is the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. It is therefore an integral element of the United 
Nations system at the service both of the Organization 
and  its  States  Members.  Its  mandate  is  unique.  Its 
universal  nature  makes  it  the  preferred  mechanism 
and  strategic  instrument  to  settle  disputes  peacefully. 
The  increase  in  the  volume  of  cases  before  the  Court 
demonstrates the confidence of States in the Court. By 
adopting  the  spirit  of  impartiality  and  independence 
in accordance with international law, the International 
Court of Justice is promoting the rule of law, while its 
decisions are based on legal criteria in order to render 
fair, well-founded judgments.
Improving  access  to  justice  is  an  essential  means 
of  strengthening  the  links  between  the  rule  of  law 
and  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
As  the  principal  judicial  organ,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  has  a  central  place  in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as 
in 
addressing issues essential for development. Its broad 
jurisdiction  —  which  extends  to  all  cases  submitted 
to  it  by  parties  and  all  matters  specially  provided  for 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  or  in  treaties  or 
conventions  in  force  —  provides  Member  States  with 
an effective instrument to settle their differences. 
14-59737
7/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
For that reason, recognizing the Court’s jurisdiction 
is  essential.  That  jurisdiction  covers  both  contentious 
and  advisory  matters.  Currently,  70  Member  States, 
including  Madagascar,  have  recognized  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction to settle disputes. We call on those States 
that have not yet done so to recognize its jurisdiction. 
We express our gratitude for the initiative undertaken 
by  Switzerland,  the  Netherlands  and  other  States 
during the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the 
National and International Levels, held on 24 September 
2012  (see  A/67/PV.3-A/67/PV.5)  for  collaboration 
with  the  Secretariat  in  drafting  a  handbook  to  assist 
States  in  accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/68/963,  annex). 
That  initiative  reflects  the  spirit  of  promoting  the 
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court as a peaceful way 
to settle disputes and shows the support that Member 
States of all regions of the world attach to it.
When  it  comes  the  activities  of  the  Court,  we 
appreciate  the  various  initiatives  that  the  Court  has 
taken  during  the  visits  of  prominent  individuals  and 
dignitaries,  especially  the  exchange  on  cooperation 
between the Court and the Secretariat’s Office of Legal 
Affairs,  the  rule  of  international  law  in  the  modern 
world,  the  Court’s  jurisprudence  and  the  Court’s 
role  in  the  international  legal  system.  There  was  the 
organization  of  a  seminar  for  members  of  the  East 
African  Court  of  Justice  and  of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  and  the  visit  by 
academicians,  researchers  and  legal  experts.  These 
show the constant attention that the Court has given to 
promoting international law in the modern world, since 
international law is an essential basis of the rule of law. 
We are also pleased that celebrations were held during 
the  centenary  of  the  Peace  Palace  in  The  Hague  and 
that such issues were discussed during those events.
The Court has made laudable efforts in publishing 
its  decisions  and  developing  multimedia  support  and 
its  website  at  the  request  of  Governments  of  Member 
States, since the world situation requires that all States 
contribute to settling the issues that concern the world. 
To that end, we support the Court’s request for financing 
the celebration of its seventieth anniversary. The year 
2014  was  successful  for  the  Court.  In  that  context, 
Madagascar welcomes the prospect of celebrating next 
year with all Member States the seventieth anniversary 
of that prestigious institution.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  greatly  appreciates 
the  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
would like to thank the President of the Court, Judge 
Peter  Tomka,  for  his  detailed  report.  The  report  of 
the  Court  (A/69/4)  shows  that  States  continue  to  ask 
the International Court of Justice to be seized of their 
disputes,  which  demonstrates  a  very  high  degree  of 
trust  in  the  Court.  The  standards  of  justice  and  the 
expert  opinions  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
has  developed  are  now  becoming  real  guidelines  for 
political and legal decisions taken by States. 
We note that for some years now the International 
Court of Justice has been extremely busy. The subject 
matters  it  deals  with  are  increasingly  varied,  as  is  its 
regional  coverage.  Today  the  Court  decides  not  only 
disputes  about  the  delimitation  of  land  and  maritime 
spaces, which is what it mainly did during the earlier 
stages  of  its  existence,  but  also  cases  on  all  sorts  of 
different issues. 
Although  it  has  a  very  full  agenda,  that  has  not 
affected  the  quality  of  decisions  it  hands  down.  It 
is  important  that  the  Court  continue  making  a  real 
contribution to ensuring the rule of law internationally, 
as  rightly  noted  in  the  report.  Everything  the  Court 
does  is  intended  to  encourage  the  rule  of  law.  We 
welcome the decision by the Court to publish as broadly 
as possible all of its decisions, to develop websites and 
to work with academia. These things deserve our full 
support.
We think the events to commemorate the seventieth 
anniversary of the International Court of Justice should 
be high on the agenda of the United Nations next year. 
We  believe  that,  given  the  undeniable  contribution 
made by the Court and its members to ensuring justice 
and the rule of law, the Assembly should respond very 
carefully to the concerns voiced by Judge Tomka about 
the  material  support  for  the  Court  and  the  judges, 
particularly dealing with the question of pensions. 
In  early  November,  there  will  be  elections  for 
five new members of the Court. We feel sure that the 
vacancies will be filled by excellent judges.
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  participate  once 
again in the annual meeting of the General Assembly 
to  consider  the  report  (A/69/4)  on  the  work  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  only  international 
court of a universal nature that has general jurisdiction. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  Judge  Peter  Tomka, 
8/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
President  of  the  Court,  for  introducing  the  Court’s 
report  for  the  period  2013-2014,  as  well  as  for  his 
presence before the Assembly. 
During the period covered by the report, the work 
of the Court was particularly intense. It delivered three 
judgments, handed down 13 orders, held public hearings 
in four cases and took on seven new contentious cases.
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
is an essential purpose of the United Nations. That is 
the  reason  that  the  role  of  the  Court  in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  in  promoting 
the  rule  of  law  on  the  international  level  is  essential. 
It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
States  Members  to  support  the  Court  in  carrying  out 
its  tasks.  That  calls  for  the  United  Nations  to  ensure 
that  the  Court  is  able  to  continue  working  effectively 
and  objectively,  with  complete  legal  and  procedural 
independence on the cases subject to its consideration. 
That  is  possible  only  if  the  Court  is  guaranteed  the 
necessary resources to comply with its mandate, taking 
into account the substantive increase in its workload. In 
that connection, we are pleased that most of the Court’s 
budgetary  requests  have  been  accepted,  which  will 
make it possible for the Court to carry out its mission 
under the best conditions.
Costa  Rica  believes  it  necessary  to  consider  the 
possibility of incorporating the Spanish language as an 
official working language of the International Court of 
Justice.
A basic requirement for strengthening the rule of 
law  and  the  Court  itself  is  for  States  to  observe  and 
abide by its decisions, both judgments and orders, and 
ultimately all of the interim measures imposed, without 
exception.  That  compliance  must  be  full  and  in  good 
faith in order to guarantee the integrity of each case and 
consolidate  the  Court’s  uncontested  role  in  ensuring 
justice and peace. In addition, the Organization should 
consider  the  possibility  of  following  up  on  decisions 
and  identifying  cases  of  non-compliance  in  order  to 
avoid situations of non-observance that violate the rule 
of law.
Although 193 countries are party to the Statute of 
the Court, only 70 have made declarations recognizing 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court in accordance 
with Article 36, paragraphs 2 and 5 of the Satute. Costa 
Rica,  which  has  accepted  its  compulsory  jurisdiction 
since 1973, has noted with concern that in recent years 
the  number  of  countries  recognizing  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  has  not  increased.  Although 
that has not affected the legal activities of the Court, we 
would respectfully urge States that have not done so to 
consider using the mechanism provided in Article 36 of 
the Court’s Statute.
For a number of years the Court has made significant 
contributions  to  the  development  of  international  law 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  since  it 
settled  its  first  case,  Corfu  Channel  (United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  v.  Albania).  In 
that  regard,  we  commend  the  statement  made  by  the 
President  at  the  centennial  celebration  of  the  Peace 
Palace:
“The  Court  will  continue  to  work  hard  to 
meet these challenges as they arise, always careful 
to  settle  the  disputes  submitted  to  it  faithfully 
and  impartially,  as  dictated  by  the  noble  judicial 
mission  entrusted  to  it  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.”
Costa  Rica  reaffirms  its  absolute  respect  for  the 
instruments and organizations of international law and 
its commitment to respecting and complying faithfully 
with all decisions handed down by them. We reiterate 
our full trust that the Court will continue to strengthen 
peace and justice through the exercise of its duties.
Mr.  Belaid  (Algeria):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, for 
the exhaustive report he presented (see A/69/PV.33) on 
the activities of the Court for the past year (A/69/4).
Algeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
the representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who 
spoke on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and the 
representative of South Africa, who spoke on behalf of 
the Group of African States (see A/69/PV.33).
like 
to  highlight 
My  delegation  would 
the 
undeniable role of the International Court of Justice in 
promoting international peace and security, particularly 
through  the  fulfilment  of  its  mandate  relating  to  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the 
rules of international law and the principles of justice. 
Indeed, despite the establishment of many specialized 
jurisdictions at the international and regional levels to 
address many emerging issues, the International Court 
of  Justice  remains  the  only  jurisdiction  that  enjoys 
universality. The Court has a unique position within the 
international legal framework, given the fact that it is 
embodied in the United Nations Charter as the principal 
14-59737
9/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
judicial organ of the Organization. We may recall that 
its Statute forms an integral part of the Charter.
The  Court’s  work  has  grown 
significantly 
throughout  the  years  in  terms  of  factual  and  legal 
complexity.  The  Court  has  been  entrusted  with  the 
mandate  to  resolve  many  contentious  cases  from  all 
over the world, involving a wide range of subjects, such 
as  territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  environmental 
damage,  violation  of  territorial  integrity,  violation  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  and 
many  other  matters.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
reiterates  its  full  support  for  the  Court’s  key  role 
in  ensuring  the  implementation  of  the  provisions 
of  international  law,  adjudicating  disputes  between 
States and providing advisory opinions to them and to 
international organizations on how best to assume their 
roles and functions.
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance  for  all  States,  without  exception,  to  abide 
by their legal obligations and comply with the decisions 
of the International Court of Justice in cases to which 
they  are  parties.  It  is  also  important  for  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council  and  the 
specialized agencies, to request advisory opinions from 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  legal  questions 
when  needed.  The  high  moral  and  legal  value  of  the 
Court’s  advisory  opinions  would  certainly  promote 
both  international  peace  and  security  and  the  rule  of 
law.
The positive contribution of the International Court 
of Justice in promoting and advancing the rule of law 
at the international level was strongly highlighted and 
valued by the Heads of State and Government during 
the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National and International Levels, held in New York on 
24 September 2012 (see A/67/PV.3 et seq). By fulfilling 
its two main functions under the United Nations Charter, 
the International Court of Justice has contributed, over 
the last six decades, to the development and codification 
of  the  rules  of  international  law  and  consolidated  the 
principles  of  justice  and  equality  at  the  international 
level.
Finally, as outlined in the report,
“The  Court’s  sustained  level  of  activity  has  been 
made  possible  thanks  to  a  significant  number  of 
steps  taken  by  it  over  recent  years  to  enhance  its 
efficiency  and  enable  it  to  cope  with  the  steady 
increase in its workload.” (A/69/4, para. 9)
In that regard, my delegation commends all the efforts 
made  so  far  to  that  end  and  reaffirms  its  confidence 
in the Court’s ability to carry out its mission using the 
same  meticulous  and  impartial  methods  with  a  high 
level of effectiveness.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Plurinational  State 
of  Bolivia  wishes  to  express  thanks  for  the  report  of 
the International Court of Justice covering the period 
from 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2014 (A/69/4) and for the 
report to the Assembly by the President of the Court, 
Judge Peter Tomka (see A/69/PV.33).
Bolivia,  as  a  pacifist  State,  supports  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles  upon  which 
the International Court of Justice is based. The Court’s 
jurisdiction is an expression of the permanent call for 
dialogue  among  neighbouring  and  brotherly  States. 
The Court and its purposes and principles open up new 
opportunities for resolving our differences by peaceful 
means. The Plurinational State of Bolivia is convinced 
that the International Court of Justice is one of the best 
paths  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between 
States.  Bolivia  urges  all  States  to  honour  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  and  decisions  in  good  faith  as  peaceful 
alternatives and settlements of disputes in accordance 
with the provisions of the United Nations Charter.
Bolivia  also  calls  for  the  provisions  of  resolution 
67/1 to be observed. In that resolution, Member States 
reaffirm their obligation to settle their disputes through 
peaceful  means,  including  judicial  arrangements.  In 
that same vein, the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes  provides  that 
recourse to a legal arrangement does not constitute an 
unfriendly act between the States involved.
International  law  is  the  basis  for  the  decisions  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Therefore,  Bolivia 
would  like  to  once  again  highlight  the  importance 
of  implementing  its  decisions.  In  the  Court’s  9  July 
2004  advisory  opinion  on  the  Legal  Consequences  of 
the Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory,  the  Court  calls  on  all  States  to  respect  and 
guarantee compliance with the decisions made by the 
Court.
It is equally important to highlight that the Bolivian 
delegation  supports  the  need  to  dedicate  sufficient 
budgetary resources for the Court to function and for 
that provision to be made in a timely manner. We would 
also like to highlight the effort to publish the manual 
10/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
of the Court in the six official languages of the United 
Nations, which contributes to the work of all States.
Lastly,  Bolivia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  reiterates  its 
adherence to the provisions of international law and the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.
Ms. Sealy Monteith (Jamaica): My delegation joins 
in the expressions of sympathy to the Government and 
the people of the Republic of Zambia on the passing of 
President Michael Chilufya Sata.
I extend my appreciation to the President for leading 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Peter Tomka, for the report (A/69/4) that has informed 
our discourse today.
Jamaica  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/69/PV.33).
Jamaica joins the rest of the international community 
in  underscoring  the  importance  of  the  Court  and  its 
invaluable  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security and in the development, promotion 
and protection of the rule of law. Over the decades, the 
Court  has  been  instrumental  in  resolving  inter-State 
disputes  through  peaceful  means,  thus  averting  in 
many  instances  situations  that  could  have  led  to  war. 
The increased activity of the Court is in itself evidence 
of  a  greater  willingness  by  States  to  resort  to  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  confidence  in  the 
Court  to  provide  effective  solutions  that  ultimately 
result  in  securing  international  peace  and  sustainable 
development.
The  current  report  highlights  the  fact  that  the 
variety of issues presented before the Court has grown 
in complexity over the years. It is noted that during this 
judicial year alone, the Court has been presented with 
issues  ranging  from  border  delimitation  and  dispute 
matters,  violations  of  sovereign  rights  and  genocide, 
to  matters  concerning  road  construction,  the  seizure 
and detention of certain documents and data and aerial 
herbicide spraying. Additionally, the report notes that 
70 States have now made a declaration recognizing as 
compulsory the jurisdiction of the International Court 
of  Justice,  in  keeping  with  Article  36  of  its  Statute. 
That  is  an  indication  of  the  growing  confidence  by 
Member States in the Court to exercise its mandate in 
an independent manner while maintaining the highest 
standards, in accordance with international law.
The value of the work of the Court to the Caribbean 
and Latin American region cannot be overstated. It is 
noted  that  the  present  report  highlights  that  6  of  the 
13 cases dealt with by the Court in the past year related 
to territorial disputes within the region. That is a clear 
illustration  of  the  faith  that  the  region  places  in  the 
Court’s  capacity,  as  the  highest  judicial  body  of  the 
United Nations, to settle critical inter-State disputes.
The report also points to the growing factual and 
legal  complexity  of  the  cases  referred  to  the  Court 
and  the  high  volume  of  work  undertaken  during  the 
judicial  year  2013-2014.  It  is  noted  that  during  that 
period judgments were delivered in 3 cases, 13 orders 
were handed down, public hearings were conducted in 
4 cases and the Court was seized of 7 new cases. The 
high volume of work undertaken not only speaks to the 
importance  and  usefulness  of  that  esteemed  body  but 
is  an  affirmation  of  the  efficiency  and  ability  of  the 
Court  to  carry  out  its  mandate  with  impartiality  and 
independence.
In  view  of  the  need  for  continued  efficiency  of 
the  Court  to  deal  with  the  number  of  cases,  Jamaica 
supports the view that the Court should continue to be 
adequately resourced to meet the increased workload.
Jamaica  respects  the  judgments  and  decisions  of 
the Court as fundamental to its mandate of upholding 
and  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  The  wide  publication 
of,  and  access  to,  its  decisions  is  indeed  laudable,  as 
it contributes to strengthening and clarifying the rule 
of law. Small States such as ours appreciate that there 
is  easy  access  to  information  on  legal  developments 
through various media. One case in point is the efficient 
posting  of  judgments  on  the  Court’s  website,  which 
provides a user-friendly environment for research.
Jamaica  commends  the  Court’s  public  outreach 
efforts  over  the  period  under  consideration.  We  fully 
concur  with  the  President  that,  in  carrying  out  its 
judicial functions, the Court helped to further advance 
the objectives and principles enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  not  the  least  of  which  was  the 
promotion of the rule of law. We commend the Court 
for  its  use  of  various  media  in  publicizing  its  work, 
including  its  annual  publication,  print  and  electronic 
media and online services and resources to disseminate 
information  to  the  wider  public.  Jamaica  believes 
that  public  education  and  sensitization  are  essential 
ingredients in the promotion of the rule of law and in 
inspiring greater confidence in the Court.
14-59737
11/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
As the Court celebrates its seventieth anniversary, 
it  is  only  fitting  that  there  be  heightened  public-
information  activities  aimed  at  highlighting  the  work 
and relevance of the Court. We take note of the schedule 
of activities planned and look forward to participating 
in those events.
In  conclusion,  Jamaica  acknowledges  that  the 
significance of the work of the Court surpasses that of 
judicial  processes,  functions,  convincing  arguments 
and submissions. The decisions and opinions delivered 
are far-reaching in effect and have a significant impact 
on  the  daily  lives  of  ordinary  men  and  women.  In 
that  regard,  we  commend  the  judges  and  staff  of  the 
Court  for  the  seriousness  and  dedication  with  which 
they  address  and  consider  the  cases  brought  before 
them. We hold the view that this, the highest court at 
the international level, should continue to benefit from 
the experience and professional attributes of those who 
stand in the vanguard of the law in all its expressions 
and from all legal systems and regions.
Jamaica  reiterates  its  belief  in  the  principles 
underpinning the work of the Court and reaffirms its 
support for the advancement of its objectives.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): At the outset, I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Judge  Peter  Tomka, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for 
his  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Court  (A/69/4) 
for  the  period  of  1  August  2013  to  31  July  2014  (see 
A/69/PV.33).
Malaysia  also  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (see A/69/PV.33).
Malaysia recognizes and commends the important 
role  played  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
as  a  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
development of international law, and its contribution 
to the peaceful settlement of international disputes and 
to the maintenance of international peace and security. 
My delegation deeply values the Court’s adherence to 
its prescribed mandates and its observance of the rule 
of  law.  We  believe  that  such  adherence  undoubtedly 
serves to increase the confidence of Member States and 
non-Member  States  alike  in  the  Court’s  effectiveness 
in fulfiling its role as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations.
international  disputes, 
understanding  of  its  important  work  in  the  judicial 
settlement  of 
its  advisory 
functions,  case  law  and  working  methods,  as  well  as 
its role within the United Nations, including through its 
publications and lectures.
Malaysia  is  committed  to  the  pacific  settlement 
of international disputes through peaceful means. Our 
commitment  is  clearly  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  we 
have  resolved  our  differences  with  our  neighbours 
peacefully  through  the  Court,  namely,  in  the  cases 
Sovereignty  over  Pulau  Ligitan  and  Pulau  Sipadan 
(Indonesia/Malaysia)  and  Sovereignty  over  Pedra 
Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South 
Ledge  (Malaysia/Singapore).  While  Malaysia  does  not 
rule  out  other  dispute  resolution  mechanisms  for  a 
satisfactory resolution of our claims, we believe that the 
Court  has  provided  the  international  community  with 
an  important,  independent  and  impartial  avenue  for 
Member States to seek legal recourse for their disputes.
In  relation  to  this,  my  delegation  believes  that 
in  serious  questions  concerning  disputes  among 
States  there  is  a  need  to  pay  heed  to  the  important 
role  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  can  play. 
To  be  more  specific,  Malaysia  would  encourage  the 
organs of the United Nations to take advantage of the 
Court’s  issuance  of  advisory  opinions,  as  provided 
for  under  Article  96,  paragraph  1  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  deliberations  on 
contentious  political  issues  would  be  better  served  if 
supplemented  by  an  authoritative  legal  opinion.  We 
further recall that there is a precedent for this in a 1971 
advisory  opinion  —  Legal  Consequences  for  States 
of  the  Continued  Presence  of  South  Africa  in  Namibia 
(South  West  Africa)  notwithstanding  Security  Council 
Resolution 276 (1970).
Malaysia  also  wishes  to  recall  that,  by  way  of 
resolution  49/75  K,  adopted  on  15  December  1994, 
the  General  Assembly,  pursuant 
to  Article  96, 
paragraph  1,  requested  the  Court  to  urgently  render 
its  advisory  opinion  on  the  question  “Is  the  threat  or 
use of nuclear weapons in any circumstance permitted 
under  international  law?”  On  8  July  1996,  the  Court 
recognized, for the first time in history, that the threat or 
use of nuclear weapons is generally contrary to the rules 
of international law applicable in armed conflict and in 
particular the principles and rules of humanitarian law. 
The Court further declared, unanimously, that
We  also  commend  the  noble  efforts  undertaken 
increase  public  awareness  and 
the  Court 
to 
by 
“There exists an obligation to pursue in good 
faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading 
12/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  its  aspects  under 
strict and effective international control.” (A/51/218, 
annex, p. 45)
In Malaysia’s view, that opinion of the International 
Court of Justice constituted a significant milestone in 
the international efforts aimed at nuclear disarmament, 
by lending a moral argument for the total elimination 
of such devastating weapons. The pronouncements by 
the highest international legal authority are of historic 
importance and cannot be dismissed. With that opinion, 
the  Court  set  legal  parametres  whereby  the  use  of 
nuclear  weapons  ignores  customary  international  law 
and  international  treaties.  In  respect  of  that  advisory 
opinion,  since  1996  Malaysia  has  annually  submitted 
a  draft  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  the 
legality of the threat or use of Nuclear eeapons”.
This  year,  we  are  also  commemorating  the  tenth 
anniversary of the 9 July 2004 advisory opinion of the 
Court entitled Legal Consequences of the Construction 
of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory. Malaysia 
was one of the sponsors of resolution ES-10/14, adopted 
an 8 December 2003, which requested that opinion. Our 
delegation was one of 15 that delivered oral statements 
in  The  Hague  prior  to  the  issuance  of  the  advisory 
opinion.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation  wishes  to 
reaffirm the Court’s conclusion that Israel cannot rely 
on a right of self-defence or on a state of necessity in 
order to preclude the wrongfulness of the construction 
of the wall, and that the Court had accordingly found 
that  the  construction  of  the  wall,  and  its  associated 
regime, are contrary to international law.
In conclusion, my delegation underlines our support 
for the significant work carried out by the International 
Court  of  Justice  in  the  promotion  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. Malaysia is a firm believer in, 
and an advocate for, the role of the Court. We have put 
that  into  practice  by  resolving  our  territorial  disputes 
through this mechanism. The Court is an integral part 
of  the  international  multilateral  system,  and  we  hope 
that all Member States will continue to hold the highest 
regard and respect for that important institution.
Mr.  Tuy  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  thank  President  Peter  Tomka  for  his  leadership  as 
well as for his comprehensive report on the work of the 
International Court of Justice (see A/69/PV.33).
My delegation wishes to recall that, on 11 November 
2013,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  announced 
its  Judgment  on  the  case  Request for Interpretation of 
the  Judgment  of  15  June  1962  in  the  Case  concerning 
the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand) 
(Cambodia v. Thailand), as follows:
“The Court,
“Unanimously,
“Finds  that  it  has  jurisdiction  under  Article 
60  of  the  Statute  to  entertain  the  Request  for 
interpretation  of  the  1962  Judgment  presented  by 
Cambodia, and that this Request is admissible;
“Unanimously,
“Declares,  by  way  of  interpretation,  that  the 
Judgment of 15 June 1962 decided that Cambodia 
had  sovereignty  over 
territory  of 
the  promontory  of  Preah  Vihear,  as  defined  in 
paragraph 98 of the present Judgment, and that, in 
consequence, Thailand was under an obligation to 
withdraw  from  that  territory  the  Thai  military  or 
police forces, or other guards or keepers, that were 
stationed there.”
the  whole 
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  paragraph  98  of  the 
Judgment clearly defines the location of the promontory. 
This is an important step forward in the historical 
significance in the efforts made by the Royal Government 
of  Cambodia  to  seek  a  peaceful  resolution  based  on 
international law to the dispute between Cambodia and 
Thailand  concerning  the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear  and 
its vicinity. In particular, I underscore the fact that the 
International Court of Justice used the 1:200,000 scale 
Annex  1  map,  which  was  submitted  by  Cambodia  to 
the Court in 1962, as evidence for interpretation of its 
Judgment giving a clear direction to the parties for their 
subsequent implementation.
On this basis, on behalf of the Royal Government 
of Cambodia, I would like to reiterate and re-emphasize 
the statement of Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo 
Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, 
to  all  Cambodian  compatriots  on  7  November  2013, 
concerning  the  commitment  of  Cambodia  to  comply 
with the common position reached between the Prime 
Minster of Cambodia and Her Excellency Ms. Yingluck 
Shinawatra,  former  Prime  Minister  of  Thailand.  The 
statement  was  to  the  effect  that,  regardless  of  the 
outcome of the judgment of the International Court of 
Justice to come on 11 November 2013, the two countries 
must  abide  by  the  decision  and  maintain  friendship 
14-59737
13/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
between the two nations and peoples, as well as preserve 
peace and stability along the border at any cost.
The President took the Chair.
Moreover, I would like to reaffirm that the Royal 
Government of Cambodia will respect and implement 
that  commitment  in  accordance  with  the  spirit  of  the 
meeting  between  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the two nations, Cambodia and Thailand, on 28 October 
2013, in Poipet, Banteay Meanchey province, in which 
both  parties  agreed  to  further  discuss  within  the 
existing  competent  mechanisms  the  implementation 
of  the  judgment  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
In  this  regard,  the  Governments  of  the  two  countries 
committed not to do anything to cause any tension and 
to prevent anyone from undertaking any act that may 
cause tension between the two countries. In the same 
vein,  the  two  Governments  will  pay  special  attention 
to maintaining and strengthening friendly relations and 
good cooperation between the two countries, as well as 
to avoid any act that may affect the movement of peoples 
on  both  sides  of  the  border,  commercial  exchange, 
investment, transport and other areas of cooperation.
Mr.  Ney  (Germany):  On  behalf  of  Germany, 
let  me  first  thank  President  Tomka  for  his  excellent 
presentation  in  this  year’s  International  Law  Week. 
The International Court of Justice is an indispensable 
institution  for  the  settlement  of  international  disputes 
through  peaceful  means  and  in  accordance  with 
international  law.  The  Court  thus  makes  a  crucial 
contribution to the maintenance of international peace 
and security. The existence of the Court and its success 
constitute  the  very  antithesis  to  the  idea  of  might-is-
right.
As  a  fervent  advocate  of  the  international  rule  of 
law, Germany has been an ardent supporter of the Court 
for  a  long  time.  A  recent  example  of  the  importance 
Germany  attributes  to  the  Court  and  its  work  is  the 
international conference on the International Court of 
Justice  that  was  organized  in  January  by  the  German 
Federal  Foreign  Office  together  with  the  editors  of 
The  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice:  A 
Commentary.  The  conference  brought  together  the 
President of the Court, two of its other judges, former 
judges and leading experts on the Court.
One  of  the  subjects  -  and  this  might  interest  my 
fellow legal advisers - that were addressed during the 
conference  concerned  the  effect  the  Court’s  consent-
based and consent-limited jurisdiction may have on its 
capacity to truly contribute to a sustainable settlement 
of the underlying conflict between the States involved. 
Of course, the consent of the parties must remain the 
basis  for  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  There  is,  however, 
one specific disadvantage this requirement may have. 
In  some  cases,  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
may  be  derived  only  from  a  specific  international 
instrument  covering  a  very  specific  subject.  In  this 
case,  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  will  be  limited  to  that 
very  specific  subject.  A  well-known  example  is  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  under  the  Genocide  Convention: 
this  jurisdiction  is  limited  to  the  subject  of  genocide. 
Hence, other international legal aspects of the conflict 
underlying  any  case  of  possible  genocide  will  remain 
a  priori  outside  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  The  result 
may be, by necessity, a somewhat lopsided coverage of 
the  legal  ground,  which  in  turn  might  jeopardize  the 
prospects of settling a conflict through the Court.
But there is a remedy: the best way to prevent this 
consists  in  the  acceptance  of  the  general  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  under  the  optional  clause  in  Article  36, 
paragraph 2, of its Statute by as many States as possible. 
Germany made such a declaration in 2008. It thereby 
recognized  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  as  compulsory.  A 
further  increase  in  the  number  of  such  declarations 
would  enable 
its 
function as a prominent facilitator of peaceful dispute 
resolution.  I  would  like  to  call  on  my  fellow  legal 
advisers to consider that option within their respective 
Governments if those Governments have not yet made 
such a declaration.
to  further  enhance 
the  Court 
If  we  all  wish  to  support  the  Court  in  its  work, 
respect  for  its  judgments  and  the  full  implementation 
of  its  decisions  is  of  primary  importance.  Invoking 
provisions of internal law can never be justification for 
failure to comply with international obligations or with 
the Court’s decisions.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on agenda item 70.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides 
to take note of the report of the International Court of 
Justice?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 70?
It was so decided.
14/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
Agenda item 73
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/69/321)
Reports by the Secretary-General (A/69/324 
and A/69/372)
The President: I welcome Judge Sang-Hyun Song, 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), to 
the General Assembly, who will present the report on 
the work of the Court (see A/69/321). 
its  mandate, 
The  ICC  was  established  as  an  independent 
international  court  to  fill  the  historical  legal  void 
relating to serious crimes such as genocide, war crimes, 
crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression. 
Given 
the  principle  of  universality 
remains central to the Court, and we should continue 
aiming towards it. It should also strive to ensure that it 
dispenses justice in a fair and balanced way, in law and 
practice alike. When that happens its credibility as an 
impartial and fair institution is enhanced.
I  have  noted  that  the  Court  is  reaching  out  to 
strengthen its cooperation with the United Nations and 
regional  organizations.  That  outreach  must  continue 
with a view to enhancing the complementary role of the 
Court.  The  Court  should  also  support  the  primacy  of 
national jurisdiction in that regard.
It is now my honour to welcome to United Nations 
Headquarters  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  I  give 
him the floor.
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song  (International  Criminal 
Court): Before I begin my presentation, on behalf of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC), I would like to join 
all those who this morning expressed their condolences 
following  the  untimely  death  of  President  Michael 
Chilufya Sata of Zambia. Zambia was one of the initial 
signatories  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, and our hearts go out to the people of 
Zambia and to his family and friends for their loss.
Forty-one  years  ago, 
the  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  3074  (XXVIII),  which  recognized 
the 
special need for international action in order to ensure 
the  prosecution  and  punishment  of  persons  guilty  of 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  During  the 
past  year,  the  International  Criminal  Court  has  been 
busy engaging in exactly such international action, and 
I  am  honoured  to  present  to  the  Assembly  today  the 
ICC’s  tenth  annual  report  to  the  United  Nations  (see 
A/69/321).
We  have  reached  many  milestones  in  the  last 
12  months.  We  now  have  a  first  final  judgement  and 
sentence,  a  conviction  in  the  Germain  Katanga  case. 
The  number  of  investigations  has  grown  from  eight 
to  nine,  and  there  are  an  unprecedented  six  cases  at 
the trial stage of proceedings. The ICC has issued the 
first final ruling that grants an admissibility challenge 
by  a  State,  giving  way  to  domestic  proceedings.  The 
Court has launched its first proceedings on allegations 
of  witness  interference.  Ukraine  became  the  second 
non-State  party  to  lodge  a  declaration  accepting  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  ICC.  Another  seven  States  parties 
ratified  the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute  on  the 
crime of aggression, and six States parties ratified the 
amendments that make the use of chemical weapons in 
non-international conflicts a war crime punishable by 
the ICC.
Let  me  give  a  brief  overview  of  the  situations  in 
which the ICC is involved. 
The  first  phase  in  any  situation  before  the  ICC 
is  a  preliminary  examination  by  the  Prosecutor,  who 
will  assess  whether  the  legal  and  factual  conditions 
for  opening  an  investigation  are  met.  That  does  not 
mean the matter must go to the ICC. As representatives 
know,  the  Rome  Statute  is  built  on  the  principle  of 
complementarity.  Domestic  courts 
therefore  have 
jurisdictional  primacy  —  the  ICC  is  a  Court  of  last 
resort.  Indeed,  during  the  preliminary  examination 
phase  national 
the  primary 
responsibility to make sure that any credible allegations 
are addressed in a genuine manner, which would make 
an  ICC  investigation  unnecessary.  That  is  an  integral 
part of the Rome Statute system’s impact: encouraging 
national  proceedings  as  a  consequence  of  the  ICC’s 
involvement.
authorities 
retain 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Prosecutor’s 
office opened preliminary examinations in the Central 
African Republic, Ukraine and Iraq and closed the one 
in the Republic of Korea, finding that the requirements 
for  an  investigation  were  not  met.  In  Afghanistan, 
the  Prosecutor’s  Office  found  a  reasonable  basis  to 
believe  that  crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes 
had  been  committed.  Accordingly,  the  Prosecutor 
expanded  the  examination  to  include  admissibility 
issues.  Preliminary  examinations  also  continued  in 
Colombia, Guinea, Honduras and Nigeria, and the Gaza 
14-59737
15/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
Flotilla situation following the referral by the Union of 
Comoros.
influencing a witness, the ICC awaits his surrender to 
the Court by the Kenyan authorities.
In the situation of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, several important developments occurred during 
the  last  year.  Mr.  Germain  Katanga  was  sentenced  to 
12 years of imprisonment after he was found guilty of 
war crimes and a crime against humanity in connection 
with the attack on the village of Bogoro in Ituri province 
that took place on 24 February 2003. The verdict and the 
sentence became final, as both parties withdrew their 
appeals.  The  proceedings  on  reparations  for  victims 
have  begun.  Thirteen  charges  of  war  crimes  and  five 
charges  of  crimes  against  humanity  were  confirmed 
against Mr. Bosco Ntaganda. His trial is scheduled to 
start in June next year. The Appeals Chamber expects 
to  deliver  in  the  months  ahead  its  judgements  on  the 
final appeals in the Lubanga and Ngudjolo cases.
In  the  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic, 
final arguments in the trial of Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba 
are expected next month. However, Mr. Bemba, together 
with four other persons, is also a suspect in a separate, 
related  case  concerning  allegations  of  false  evidence 
and corruptly influencing witnesses. These proceedings 
regarding offences against the administration of justice 
are  unprecedented  at  the  ICC.  They  demonstrate  that 
the Court takes witness interference very seriously.
In the light of the recent tragic events in the Central 
African Republic, and following a new referral by its 
Government,  the  Prosecutor  has  decided  to  open  new 
investigations there. In the situation in Uganda, Joseph 
Kony and his three co-accused regrettably still remain 
at large.
In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  Sudan,  Trial 
Chamber IV issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Abdallah 
Banda in the light of information that the Government 
of  the  Sudan  would  not  cooperate  in  facilitating  the 
accused’s  presence  at  the  trial.  Further  exchanges  are 
taking  place  with  regard  to  the  accused’s  ability  and 
willingness  to  appear  in  Court.  He  is  charged  with 
alleged crimes in connection with an attack on African 
Union peacekeeping forces in Haskanita. The four other 
suspects in the situation of Darfur still remain at large.
In  the  situation  in  Kenya,  the  trial  of  Mr.  Ruto 
and Mr. Sang continues. In the Kenyatta case, several 
motions  by  the  parties  are  pending  before  the  Trial 
Chamber  after  the  recent  status  conference.  In  the 
Walter Barasa case, regarding allegations of corruptly 
In  the  situation  in  Libya,  the  Appeals  Chamber 
upheld 
the  admissibility  decisions  of  Pre-Trial 
Chamber  I  in  the  two  cases  before  the  Court.  In  the 
case  of  Saif  Al-Islam  Al-Qadhafi,  the  judges  found 
that Libya had failed to demonstrate that its domestic 
investigation covered the same case that is before the 
ICC.  Consequently,  Libya  is  under  a  duty  to  proceed 
immediately  with  the  surrender  of  Mr.  Al-Qadhafi. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  Appeals  Chamber  confirmed 
the  Pre-Trial  Chamber’s  ruling  that  the  ICC’s  case 
against  Mr.  Abdullah  Al-Senussi  was  inadmissible, 
as  it  was  subject  to  ongoing  domestic  proceedings 
conducted  by  the  competent  Libyan  authorities,  and 
Libya  is  genuinely  willing  and  able  to  carry  out  such 
proceedings  on  the  same  allegations  as  those  before 
the ICC. Those decisions are an important addition to 
the growing jurisprudence that gives concrete shape to 
the principle of complementarity between the ICC and 
national jurisdictions.
In the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, Pre-Trial Chamber 
I  confirmed  four  charges  of  crimes  against  humanity 
against Mr. Laurent Gbagbo. The trial date will be set in 
due course. In the Simone Gbagbo case, an admissibility 
challenge filed by the Government of Côte d’Ivoire is 
pending.  Mr.  Charles  Blé  Goudé  was  transferred  to 
the ICC in March this year, following the unsealing of 
the  arrest  warrant.  A  decision  on  the  confirmation  of 
charges is pending.
Finally,  in  the  situation  in  Mali,  the  investigation 
by the Prosecutor’s Office continues, with an emphasis 
on the three northern regions.
This  month  marks  10  years  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations. 
I  would  like  to  express  the  ICC’s  sincere  gratitude  to 
the United Nations for all the support and cooperation 
that  we  have  long  enjoyed.  We  share  the  same  core 
values.  Both  organizations  are  based  on  the  ideals  of 
peace,  security  and  respect  for  human  rights,  and  the 
realization that those goals can be attained only through 
the  rule  of  law  and  international  cooperation.  Just  as 
peace and justice go hand in hand, so must the United 
Nations and the ICC. Our partnership is indispensable 
for a strong international community and the protection 
of the interests of humankind as a whole.
As  President  of  the  ICC,  it  has  been  one  of  my 
priorities  to  nurture  this  important  relationship.  I  am 
16/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
very  proud  of  the  effective  cooperation  that  we  enjoy 
today in a wide range of areas, and we are keen to explore 
ways  to  develop  it  further.  Where  the  fundamental 
building-blocks of society threaten to break down, we 
often see the United Nations and the ICC working side 
by side with mutually supportive mandates. We greatly 
appreciate  the  assistance  we  receive  from  the  United 
Nations  in  the  field  on  a  reimbursable  basis.  At  the 
level  of  the  broader  Rome  Statute  system,  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  make  important 
contributions to strengthening the capacity of national 
judiciaries, which in turn helps States provide effective 
cooperation to the ICC.
The winds of renewal are blowing at the ICC. The 
permanent  premises  of  the  ICC  are  fast  rising  in  the 
dunes along the North Sea. The Court looks forward to 
moving into its new, purpose-built home before the end 
of 2015. Next year, the remaining four judges from the 
very first generation of 2003 will leave the ICC. I see 
it as a great strength of the ICC that we rejuvenate our 
judicial bench with six new judges every three years. 
That  guarantees  a  balance  of  continuity  and  fresh 
energy.
Many  reforms  are  now  taking  place  at  the  ICC. 
Drawing lessons from the first wave of pre-trial and trial 
proceedings, the judges are streamlining the criminal 
process through practical innovations. The Prosecutor 
has  introduced  a  new  strategic  plan,  adapting  her 
approach to investigations and prosecutions in the light 
of  the  experiences  of  the  first  cases.  The  Registrar  is 
overhauling  the  support  structures  of  the  Court  so  as 
to serve the judicial proceedings in the most effective 
and efficient way and to strengthen the ICC’s presence 
in the field.
The  ICC  is  an  institution  in  constant  movement, 
and so it must be if we wish to respond effectively to 
the ever-changing challenges we face. But we cannot do 
it alone. Ultimately, the Rome Statute is only as strong 
as States make it. States hold the key to unlocking the 
ICC’s  full  potential.  The  Court  has  no  enforcement 
powers  of  its  own.  We  have  the  committed  support 
of  122  States  parties.  I  would  like  to  acknowledge 
the  significant  contributions  that  have  been  made  by 
a  number  of  non-State  parties  in  extending  highly 
valuable cooperation to the ICC.
As President of the Court, I have reached out to many 
States not yet party to the Rome Statute to encourage 
them  to  join  it.  I  have  spoken  with  Government 
legal  professionals  and 
leaders,  parliamentarians, 
representatives  of  civil  society.  I  have  drawn  their 
attention  to  the  legal  protections  and  deterrent  effect 
that the Rome Statute provides. I have underlined the 
principle of non-retroactivity, which means that joining 
the ICC is an insurance policy for a safer future, not a 
method  of  settling  old  scores.  I  have  highlighted  the 
numerous checks and balances built into the ICC’s legal 
framework  and  I  have  stressed  how  the  values  of  the 
Rome Statute reflect global solidarity and commitment 
to peace, security and international law.
I am delighted that over recent years the ICC family 
has gained many new members, and I hope and believe 
that  this  process  will  continue.  It  is  only  by  steadily 
building  global  support  for  the  Rome  Statute  system 
that  we  will  achieve  its  ultimate  aim  of  universality, 
with the corollary of no hiding place for perpetrators of 
international crimes. 
In  that  context,  it  is  of  great  concern  to  me  that 
requests  for  arrest  and  surrender  issued  by  the  ICC 
still remain outstanding for 13 persons, some of them 
since 2005. Nine years at large is an affront to justice, 
an  affront  to  victims  and  an  affront  to  the  global 
community,  which  wants  to  see  those  suspected  of 
the  most  atrocious  crimes  face  the  charges  levelled 
against  them.  But  the  suspects  should  not  think  that 
they have evaded justice. We have seen fugitives from 
international courts arrested after much longer periods 
of time.
None of that is meant to undermine the presumption 
of  innocence.  It  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  ICC’s 
proceedings  at  all  times,  together  with  legality  and 
due  process.  But  the  only  way  for  suspects  to  make 
the charges go away is to confront them at the ICC, in 
scrupulously fair proceedings before a court of law.
Just as the ICC respects the rights of suspects and 
the accused, it also strives to provide justice to victims. 
Parallel  to  the  judicial  proceedings  at  the  Court,  the 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims  provides  a  very  concrete 
response  to  the  urgent  needs  of  numerous  victims  of 
crimes within the ICC’s jurisdiction. The Trust Fund’s 
programmes of physical and psychological assistance, 
as well as material support, are implemented by locally 
based partners, and they currently support over 110,000 
victims, their families and communities in Uganda and 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The  empowerment  of  women  and  girls  is  a 
fundamental requirement of any justice, reconciliation 
and  peacebuilding  process.  Over  5,000  Trust  Fund 
14-59737
17/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
beneficiaries are survivors of sexual and gender-based 
violence.  The  following  is  the  testimony  of  Salima,  a 
victim  of  sexual  violence  in  South  Kivu,  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  a  beneficiary  of  a  Trust 
Fund-supported project:
“We  had  no  experience  in  business.  Little  by 
little, I learned through training how to conduct my 
small business. Now I have two plots of land and I 
have a husband. My husband had his own children 
and I came with mine, and all have been educated. 
On one of my plots, I built a house for my children. 
I  do  my  small  trade  and  I  am  contributing  to  the 
development of my community.”
The Trust Fund depends upon donations, which may 
also  be  needed  to  fund  reparations  when  a  convicted 
person is indigent. Once again, I thank those States that 
have  generously  supported  the  ICC’s  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims with voluntary contributions. I call upon others 
to consider doing so, for the benefit of the victims.
This is the last speech I will give before the General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. My mandate as Judge and President will come 
to an end next March. It has been a tremendous honour 
to serve the ICC in its historic, formative phase. When 
the  first  18  judges  of  the  ICC  gathered  at  the  interim 
premises  of  the  ICC  in  The  Hague  11  years  ago,  we 
were not certain about the future of the Court. Would 
we be able to turn it from a court on paper into an active 
judicial institution? Would States embrace the Court’s 
mandate in practice? Would the ICC be able to make a 
difference and have an impact?
My firm belief is that the answer to all these questions 
is a resounding “yes”. What used to be an idea is now 
a reality. We now have a permanent international body 
that  can  hear  allegations  of  large-scale  international 
crimes  and  investigate  and  prosecute  such  acts  when 
justice cannot be achieved in national courts. The ICC 
has launched investigations in response to four referrals 
by States, two referrals by the Security Council and a 
declaration accepting jurisdiction by a non-State party 
at  the  time.  Our  cases  involve  hundreds  of  thousands 
of victims.
The  ICC’s  growing  jurisprudence  of  international 
criminal  law  builds  on  the  historic  achievements  of 
the  ad  hoc  tribunals  and  mixed  courts  established  or 
supported  by  the  United  Nations.  We  have  broken 
new ground on issues such as the use of child soldiers 
and  gender-based  violence.  The  ICC  is  responding  to 
humankind’s  call  for  justice,  helping  to  change  the 
world for the better. Instead of being a rare exception, 
accountability  for  international  crimes  has  become 
something  that  communities,  victims  and  societies 
around  the  world  expect  and  demand,  in  keeping 
with  the  resolve  the  General  Assembly  expressed 
four  decades  ago  in  its  resolution  3074  (XXVIII),  of 
3 December 1973.
The  perpetrators  of  mass  killings,  deportations, 
attacks  on  civilians  and  rape  as  a  weapon  of  war  can 
no  longer  count  on  impunity.  Today,  the  prospect  of 
international prosecution helps deter the deadliest and 
most atrocious acts imaginable.
But we are still far from ending impunity. Billions 
of people fall outside the protective cover of the Rome 
Statute, and atrocities are rampant in some parts of our 
shared  planet.  It  is  my  dream  to  see  the  entire  world 
united  in  a  strong  system  of  international  criminal 
justice  that  will,  above  all,  help  us  prevent  the  worst 
crimes from happening altogether.
Without  the  rule  of  law,  there  cannot  be  justice, 
there  cannot  be  sustainable  peace,  and  there  cannot 
be universal respect for human rights. I appeal to the 
31 signatory States and other States not parties to the 
Rome Statute to seriously think about joining the ICC. 
Give the gift of hope to the children, men and women 
of tomorrow.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Marhic (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and 
its member States. The candidate countries the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania,  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, as well as Georgia, align themselves with 
this statement.
At  the  outset,  we  thank  President  Song  for  his 
presence  in  New  York  and  for  his  comprehensive 
presentation, and we thank the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  its  tenth  annual  report  to  the  United 
Nations  (see  A/69/321),  covering  the  period  from 
1  August  2013  to  31  July  2014  and  detailing  what  is 
described as another increasingly busy year for the ICC.
We  are  staunch  supporters  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  and  our  strong  policy  in  this  respect 
has  a  firm  institutional  foundation  in  a  detailed  2011 
18/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
European  Council  decision  and  a  2011  action  plan  on 
implementation that is adjusted to the evolving activity 
of the Court.
is  facing  an 
We note from this year’s report that, with 21 cases 
in 8 situations at different stages of proceedings, and a 
further 10 situations under preliminary examinations, 
the  ICC 
increasing  workload.  The 
Prosecutor  is  currently  investigating  more  allegations 
than in the previous reporting period. We acknowledge 
in that regard the opening of preliminary examinations 
concerning  allegations  of  crimes  occurring  in  the 
Central  African  Republic,  Iraq  and  Ukraine  and  the 
conclusion  of  the  preliminary  examination  of  the 
situation  in  the  Republic  of  Korea.  We  welcome  the 
first final verdict of the ICC in the case The Prosecutor 
v. Germain Katanga, of June 2014.
The  Court  has  given  hope  to  the  victims  of  the 
most  serious  crimes.  During  the  reporting  period, 
more  than  3,000  applications  for  participation  and 
2,500 applications for reparations were registered. We 
welcome the fact that 20 States have contributed to the 
Trust Fund for Victims. We encourage others to do the 
same.
The recent report of the ICC describes the efforts 
that the Court has made in fulfilling its mandate. It also 
describes the challenges that the ICC is facing.
Although no new State has ratified the Rome Statute 
or the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of 
the  Court  during  the  reporting  period,  we  note  that 
eight  States  ratified  the  amendments  on  the  crime  of 
aggression  and  nine  States  ratified  amendments  on 
certain  crimes  in  non-international  armed  conflicts. 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  Ukraine,  a  State  not  party 
to  the  Statute,  accepted  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
through  a  declaration  of  17  April  2014  on  alleged 
crimes  committed  on  its  territory  from  21  November 
2013 to 22 February 2014.
the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern 
Ensuring  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
which continues to be one of the main challenges faced 
by the ICC, is essential for guaranteeing accountability 
for 
the 
international community. Perpetrators of such crimes, 
regardless  of  their  status,  must  be  held  accountable 
for their actions. A key element in the Rome Statute is 
its equal application to all persons without distinction 
based on official capacity.
to 
We  need 
to 
make  the  Rome  Statute  truly  universal.  During  the 
to  continue 
to  work 
tirelessly 
reporting period, we continued to engage in promoting 
the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute,  increasing 
participation  in  the  Agreement  on  the  Privileges 
and  Immunities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  promoting  a  better  understanding  of  the  Court’s 
mandate. We did that through démarches and dialogue 
in  third  States  and  international  organizations,  such 
as  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  African  Union, 
through the organization of dedicated local or regional 
seminars,  the  systematic  inclusion  of  an  ICC  clause 
into  agreements  with  third  countries  and  financial 
support  to  civil  society  organizations  lobbying  for 
the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Since  2003,  the 
EU  has  provided  more  than  €30  million  to  the  global 
ratification campaigns undertaken by civil society and 
to projects of the ICC.
The primary responsibility for bringing offenders 
to  justice  lies  with  States  themselves,  in  conformity 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
Complementarity  is  a  core  principle  in  the  Rome 
Statute.  In  order  to  make  it  operational,  all  States 
parties  need  to  prepare  and  adopt  effective  national 
legislation to implement the Rome Statute in national 
systems.  We  are  currently  conducting  démarches  to 
identify  needs  to  assist  countries  in  enhancing  their 
institutional  and  legal  capacity  to  integrate  the  Rome 
Statute domestically.
Another  fundamental  challenge  remains,  and 
that  is  the  necessity  to  ensure  cooperation  with  the 
ICC  and,  in  particular,  how  to  react  to  instances  of 
non-cooperation by States that are in violation of their 
obligations  with  regard  to  the  ICC.  Cooperation  with 
the Court and enforcement of its decisions are indeed 
equally essential to enabling the Court to carry out its 
mandate. That applies to all States parties to the Rome 
Statute  and  when  the  Security  Council  has  referred  a 
situation to the Court in accordance with Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
We  note  with  concern  that  arrest  warrants  issued 
by the Court remain outstanding, some since 2005. We 
recall that non-cooperation with the Court in respect of 
the execution of arrest warrants constitutes a violation of 
international obligations and stifles the ICC’s capacity to 
deliver justice. We call upon all States to take consistent 
actions to encourage appropriate and full cooperation 
with the Court, including the prompt execution of arrest 
warrants.  We  also  reiterate  the  crucial  importance  of 
all States refraining from helping to shelter or hide the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes and taking the 
14-59737
19/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
necessary steps to bring those perpetrators to justice in 
order  to  end  impunity.  A  further  additional  challenge 
remains in that the Court’s proceedings must be fair and 
expeditious, while preserving the rights of the accused. 
We  therefore  support  the  Court’s  work  in  seeking  to 
expedite proceedings.
We  welcome  the  actions  undertaken  by  States, 
international organizations and civil society to increase 
cooperation  with  and  assistance  to  the  ICC.  We 
particularly praise the ongoing cooperation of the United 
Nations  with  the  Court,  at  the  level  of  Headquarters, 
specialized  institutions  and  field  missions,  which 
is  acknowledged  in  the  report.  We  also  welcome 
the  recent  United  Nations  practice  of  informing  the 
Prosecutor and the President of the Assembly of States 
Parties to the Rome Statute beforehand of any meetings 
with  persons  who  are  the  subject  of  arrest  warrants 
issued  by  the  Court  that  are  considered  necessary  for 
the  performance  of  United  Nations-mandated  tasks, 
developed  pursuant  to  the  guidance  issued  by  the 
Secretary-General in 2013.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
undertake,  on  their  part,  to  pursue  their  efforts  in 
the  fight  against  impunity,  notably  by  giving  the 
Court  full  diplomatic  support.  For  the  first  time  this 
year,  on  the  basis  of  the  2006  Agreement  between 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  European 
Union on Cooperation and Assistance, a joint ICC-EU 
round table was set up to consult and to ensure regular 
exchange  on  matters  of  mutual  interest,  including 
cooperation,  complementarity,  diplomatic  support 
and mainstreaming, as well as public information and 
outreach.
Our  common  goal  remains  the  same:  to  further 
strengthen  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate  effectively. 
There are States parties to the ICC across all parts of 
the  world,  and  all  States  parties  share  ownership  of 
the Statute. We will continue to encourage the widest 
possible  participation  in  the  Rome  Statute.  We  are 
dedicated  to  preserving  the  integrity  of  the  Statute, 
supporting the independence of the Court and ensuring 
cooperation with the Court. We are also committed to 
fully  implementing  the  principle  of  complementarity 
enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute  by  facilitating  the 
effective and efficient interplay between national justice 
systems and the ICC in the fight against impunity.
Mr.  Charles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 
honour  to  make  this  intervention  on  behalf  of  the 
14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM). 
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  honour  the 
memory of the late President of Zambia, His Excellency 
Mr. Michael Sata, not only for his contribution to the 
development of his country, but also for his dedication 
to the work of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
CARICOM  continues  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in 
upholding  the  purposes  and  principles  upon  which 
the  International  Criminal  Court  was  founded.  On 
9  April,  CARICOM  and  the  other  members  of  the 
international  community  mourned  the  passing  of  the 
former  Prime  Minister  and  President  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago, His Excellency Mr. Arthur Robinson, who was 
recognized  globally  for  his  pioneering  work  resulting 
in  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998,  which 
established  the  International  Criminal  Court.  As  a 
region,  CARICOM  strongly  supports  the  mandate  of 
the ICC and its primary objective to help put an end to 
impunity for perpetrators of the most serious crimes of 
concern to the international community, as a whole, as 
well as to contribute to the prevention of such crimes.
It  is  no  exaggeration  to  state  that,  despite  its 
detractors  and  many  challenges,  it  cannot  be  ignored 
that  the  ICC  remains  a  beacon  of  hope  to  all  victims 
of  crimes  committed  within  its  jurisdiction  who  are 
seeking justice. Those include thousands of women and 
children, who are those most affected by the actions of 
criminals showing blatant disregard for the sanctity of 
humanity  by  violating  international  humanitarian  law 
and international human rights law. 
The Court continues to grow. More States parties 
are  becoming  adherents  to  the  Rome  Statute.  It  is 
CARICOM’s hope that the ICC will gain universality 
in the near future.
We  also  recognize  the  renewed  and  strengthened 
relations  between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations. 
In  that  regard,  we  appreciate  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  information  relevant  to 
the  implementation  of  article  3  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC 
(A/69/364).  As  a  result  of  the  symbiotic  relationship 
that  exists  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC, 
CARICOM  applauds  the  joint  collaboration  of  the 
Court and this important institution. At the same time, 
however,  we  wish  once  again  to  reiterate  our  call  on 
the  United  Nations  to  meet  the  costs  associated  with 
the  referrals  by  the  Security  Council  of  situations  to 
20/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
the  ICC.  In  our  view,  that  would  be  consistent  with 
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Court.
Over the past two years, CARICOM has witnessed 
the tremendous strides made by the Prosecutor of the 
ICC, Ms. Bensouda, to discharge her mandate. In that 
regard,  we  welcome  the  launch  by  the  Prosecutor  of 
the ICC’s policy on sexual and gender-based violence, 
the  first  ever  such  document  to  be  elaborated  by  an 
international  court  or  tribunal.  At  the  same  time, 
CARICOM  also  applauds  the  President  of  the  ICC, 
Judge  Song,  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the 
ICC (see A/69/321) and wishes to place on record our 
appreciation  for  his  sterling  work  in  shaping  the  ICC 
since  his  first  election  to  the  Court  in  2003.  It  is  our 
view that as Judge Song demits office in March 2015, 
he will be able to take comfort in the fact that he will 
be leaving behind an ICC that is much stronger than it 
was when he entered in 2003. We applaud him for that.
During  the  past  year  we  have  also  observed  the 
continued work of the Court to bring to justice several 
persons accused in numerous situations referred to the 
institution.  Most  importantly  for  us  in  CARICOM, 
the verdict rendered on 7 March — in which the ICC 
found  Mr.  Germain  Katanga  guilty  of  five  counts, 
including war crimes and crimes against humanity —
and  his  subsequent  sentencing  in  May  bode  well  for 
international criminal justice.
At  this  juncture,  we  hope  that  States  parties, 
when  selecting  judges  at  elections  in  December  at 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
scrupulously observe the relevant provisions of article 
36 of the Rome Statute and elect only those persons who 
meet the absolute criteria and experience for election as 
judges to the ICC. Failure to do so could result in the 
bench of the Court being held by individuals who will 
not gain the confidence of the international community.
We in CARICOM are satisfied that at each stage of 
the proceedings in the case of The Prosecutor v. Germain 
Katanga, the ICC adhered to all of the tenets associated 
with the conduct of an impartial trial. In addition to the 
sentencing of Mr. Katanga, CARICOM also commends 
the Court for its landmark decision on reparations for 
victims. That decision, in our view, is comprehensive 
in  scope,  as  it  also  establishes  principles  relating  to 
reparations.
It is CARICOM’s hope that in the near future the 
ICC will be in a position to commence the trial of other 
individuals  who  are  accused  of  committing  crimes 
under article 5 of the Rome Statute. But if that objective 
is to be achieved, the relevant entities must honour their 
legally binding obligations to execute the outstanding 
arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Court  and  arrest  and 
surrender  to  the  ICC  those  individuals  who  continue 
to evade justice. We wish to remind all those involved 
who have failed to honour such obligations that they are 
contributing  to  a  culture  of  impunity,  which  not  only 
prevents  the  dispensing  of  justice,  but  also  serves  to 
undermine the foundations of the rule of law.
Cooperation  with  the  Court  is  at  the  centre  of 
the  Rome  Statute,  and  it  does  not  fall  only  to  States 
parties,  but  also  to  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  as  it  relates  to  referrals  by  the 
Security  Council.  Those  who  argue  that  the  ICC  is 
an  obstacle  to  achieving  lasting  peace  and  security 
must be reminded that, consistent with the doctrine of 
complementarity  enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
jurisdiction of the ICC is invoked only when States are 
unable or unwilling to prosecute individuals accused of 
perpetrating the most severe crimes of concern to the 
global community. In other words, CARICOM is of the 
view  that  no  individual  should  fear  the  ICC,  because 
it is a court of last resort. CARICOM is also satisfied 
that  in  its  16  years  of  operations,  the  ICC  has  stoutly 
adhered to that cardinal principle.
We  also  welcome 
the  growing  number  of 
ratifications of the Kampala amendments to the Rome 
Statute, including those on the crime of aggression. To 
that end, CARICOM further calls on all States parties 
to the Rome Statute to ratify the amendments so that 
the Assembly of States Parties can take action in 2017 
to enable their entry into force.
With  the  imminent  cessation  of  operations  of  the 
ad hoc criminal tribunals, the international community 
must  fully  embrace  the  ICC  as  the  only  permanent 
international  tribunal  dedicated  to  the  prosecution 
of  all  individuals,  without  distinction  as  to  rank  or 
status, who commit international crimes that have the 
potential to undermine the rule of law and the political 
and economic stability of States. In that regard, we also 
echo the words of the ICC Prosecutor, who, at an open 
debate  of  the  Security  Council,  remarked  that  justice 
plays a crucial role in maintaining international peace 
and security (see S/PV.7285).
14-59737
21/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
Finally,  CARICOM  remains  committed  to  the 
progressive  development  of  the  relationship  between 
the United Nations and the ICC as part of our overall 
support for the maintenance of an international regime 
based  on  respect  for  the  inalienable  human  rights  of 
individuals, respect for the territorial integrity of States 
and the need to ensure justice for those who cry out for 
help and that the perpetrators of the most grave crimes 
of concern to the international community do not enjoy 
impunity.
Mr.  Rönquist  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries: Denmark, 
Finland, Iceland, Norway and my own country, Sweden. 
Let me start by thanking the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United Nations 
(see  A/69/321).  I  would  also  like  to  personally  thank 
Judge  Song,  President  of  the  ICC,  for  giving  us  a 
thorough presentation of the main issues addressed in 
the report.
The  Nordic  countries  would  like  to  express  their 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Court  for  its  significant 
contribution  to  the  fight  against  impunity  worldwide. 
From the report and President Song’s introduction, it is 
evident that the caseload of the Court has continued to 
increase. The activities of the Court have a worldwide 
reach,  and  during  the  reporting  period,  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  opened  preliminary 
investigations 
in  the  Central  African  Republic,  Iraq  and  Ukraine 
and  concluded  its  preliminary  examination  in  the 
Republic  of  Korea.  During  the  reporting  period,  the 
Court rendered its first final judgement, in the case of 
The  Prosecutor  v.  Germain  Katanga.  Six  cases  are  at 
the trial preparation or trial stage, with 8,040 victims 
represented. The ICC recently finalized an arrangement 
with Libya for the entry and presence of ICC staff, and 
a  similar  arrangement  is  under  way  with  Mali.  These 
are  important  achievements.  The  Court  has  become 
the  most  important  international  actor  in  efforts  to 
fight impunity and in the development of international 
criminal law.
Victims’  participation  and  right  to  reparations 
are unique and essential features of the Rome Statute. 
Victims’  issues  are  key  for  the  Nordic  countries, 
especially  regarding  those  who  have  been  subjected 
to  sexual  and  gender-based  crimes,  as  well  as  other 
vulnerable persons. We commend the important work 
of the ICC Trust Fund for Victims, which has supported 
more  than  110,000  victims  of  crimes  under  the  ICC’s 
jurisdiction.  The  Nordic  countries  had  contributed  a 
total  of  €5.8  million  to  the  Fund  as  of  last  year,  with 
further substantial contributions this year. We continue 
to encourage States and other actors to contribute to the 
Trust Fund, which will enable victims to access their 
rights to reparations. In that regard the Nordic countries 
are convinced that the full realization of the rights of 
victims is an important aspect of the continuing success 
and relevance of the Court.
The principle of complementarity enshrined in the 
Rome Statute means that the ICC is to be complementary 
to  national  criminal  jurisdictions.  Ideally,  it  should 
have  no  cases.  We  must,  however,  acknowledge  that 
many States lack the resources and capacity to conduct 
criminal proceedings for such complex and large-scale 
crimes as genocide, crimes against humanity and war 
crimes.  The  Nordic  countries  emphasize  the  value  of 
capacity-building among States parties and stress that 
States  parties  may  also  benefit  from  the  knowledge 
and  expertise  of  the  Court.  One  concrete  example  of 
our  complementarity  engagement  is  the  Justice  Rapid 
Response  facility,  which  is  a  support  mechanism 
for  providing  States  and  organizations  with  rapidly 
deployable  criminal  justice  professionals  trained  for 
international investigations.
The  Nordic  countries  would  like  to  recall  that 
the  success  of  the  Court  is  contingent  upon  its 
highly  qualified  and  competent  judges  and  staff.  The 
forthcoming  election  of  judges  at  the  Assembly  of 
States Parties in December 2014 will be an important 
opportunity for States parties to ensure that the Court 
is  equipped  with  the  most  qualified,  competent  and 
experienced  judges.  The  Court  needs  judges  with 
courtroom  experience,  the  right  skills  for  managing 
complex criminal cases, and expertise in international 
and  national  criminal  law,  international  humanitarian 
law and human rights law.
Another important topic for the upcoming Assembly 
of  States  Parties  will  be  the  annual  budget  debate. 
Although  the  Court  and  its  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
manage  their  workload  in  a  commendable  manner 
within the framework of the current budget, it is evident 
that  the  increased  number  of  situations  and  cases 
necessitates  an  increase  in  the  resources  available  to 
them. As States parties, it is our common responsibility 
to ensure that the Court and the Office of the Prosecutor 
have  the  sufficient  staff  and  other  resources  to  fulfil 
their mandate. Equally, the resources of the Trust Fund 
for Victims provided for in the Court’s budget must be 
sufficient to fulfil its important mandate.
22/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
Despite  the  success  of  the  ICC,  it  is  a  cause  for 
concern that the number of outstanding arrest warrants 
remains  high.  Progress  has  to  be  made.  States’ 
cooperation with the Court, including the Office of the 
Prosecutor,  must  improve.  States  parties  have  a  legal 
obligation  under  the  Rome  Statute  to  cooperate  fully 
with  the  Court.  Therefore,  we  urge  all  States  parties 
to  strengthen  their  efforts  to  execute  the  orders  of 
the  Court,  including  to  avoid  non-essential  contacts 
and abstain from inviting and receiving suspects who 
are under an arrest warrant. We would also like draw 
particular  attention  to  the  continued  need  for  new 
agreements  between  the  Court  and  States  parties  on 
witness relocation and protection.
All  States  must  also  fully  comply  with  their 
obligations under the Charter of the United Nations and 
Security Council resolution 1593 (2005) concerning the 
situation in Darfur. The Government of the Sudan and 
all other parties to the conflict in Darfur must cooperate 
fully with the Court and the Prosecutor.
implementation  of 
The Nordic countries stress the need for coordinated 
and  coherent 
the  policies  of 
international  organizations  and  States  on  contact 
with persons who are the subject of arrest warrants or 
summons issued by the ICC. By mainstreaming our ICC 
policy into regular bilateral diplomacy, we enhance the 
reach and relevance of the Court.
Being  independent  does  not  mean  that  the  Court 
stands  alone.  We  are  heartened  by  the  detailed 
description  in  the  report  of  multifold  communication 
and  interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC. However, enhanced support for the Court from the 
Security Council is required in cases of non-cooperation 
with  the  ICC,  as  is  strengthened  follow-up  of  cases 
referred  to  it  by  the  Council.  While  respecting  the 
independence  and  integrity  of  the  Court,  the  Council 
must play its part in ensuring accountability when gross 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights law have occurred in any part of the world, such 
as in Syria.
The  quest 
for  universal  adherence 
to  and 
implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  continues  and 
should  be  intensified.  We  also  stress  the  need  for  all 
States  parties  and  States  not  parties  that  have  not  yet 
done so to ratify and fully observe the Agreement on 
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  ICC  as  a  matter 
of priority.
It  should  be  recognized  that  the  activities  of  the 
ICC reach all parts of the world, with the Office of the 
Prosecutor  receiving  communications  and  conducting 
preliminary  examinations  relating 
to  a  range  of 
countries in different parts of the world. In that regard, 
the  Nordic  countries  welcome  the  Court’s  intention 
to increase its presence in the field. The ICC must be 
an institution that is both visible and accessible to the 
people on the ground. It is also important to make the 
Court better known in all parts of the world, but this is 
particularly true in the situation countries. For example, 
public debates on the ICC have proven to be a useful 
way  of  disseminating  information  and  exchanging 
views.  The  Court  must  also  have  sufficient  resources 
for effective outreach.
Victims  of  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity 
and genocide, wherever they are found, deserve justice. 
The International Criminal Court was created to take 
up the cases that States were not able or willing to take 
up. But in today’s reality, an effective and independent 
Court  is  dependent  upon  the  integrity  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  effective  and  comprehensive  cooperation 
by States. Only then is it possible for the international 
community and the Court to pursue the aim of ending 
impunity for past crimes and preventing such crimes in 
the future.
Both the Court and the States parties are part of the 
Rome Statute system of international criminal justice, 
built upon the principles of complementarity, cooperation 
and shared responsibility, to hold perpetrators of mass 
crimes accountable. The independence and strength of 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  are  vital  in  that  respect. 
We  support  the  Office’s  efforts  to  use  preliminary 
examinations  as  a  tool  for  complementarity,  as  such 
examinations  provide  an  opportunity  for  dialogue 
with  national  authorities  and  can  encourage  national 
examinations  and  identify  possibilities  to  support 
national  authorities  in  their  work.  The  efforts  with 
regard to Guinea and Colombia are among such positive 
examples.
The  Nordic  countries  welcome  the  Prosecutor’s 
ambitions  to  further  enhance  the  efficiency  of  the 
Court. We especially welcome the Court’s engagement 
in  important  areas  such  as  sexual  and  gender-based 
crimes, prosecuting crimes against children and using 
new forms of evidence in addition to witnesses.
Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  our  pledge  that  the 
Nordic countries will remain principal supporters of the 
14-59737
23/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
ICC. We are committed to continuing to work for the 
Court’s  effectiveness,  professionalism,  independence 
and integrity.
Mr.  Hahn  Choonghee  (Republic  of  Korea):  First 
of all, the Republic of Korea would like to express its 
sincere  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his 
leadership and his comprehensive report on the current 
activities of the Court.
Next  year,  President  Song  will  conclude  his  duty 
as  the  President  of  the  Court,  which  he  assumed  in 
2009,  and  that  of  a  judge  of  the  Chambers,  which  he 
assumed  in  2003.  He  has  been  playing  a  vital  role  in 
leading  the  Court  towards  a  brighter  future  and  is  a 
dedicated  ICC  judge  and  passionate  President  of  the 
Court.  He  has  been  an  important  part  of  the  history 
of  the  ICC  itself.  President  Song  will  be  remembered 
as  one  of  the  champions  who  devoted  themselves  to 
the  development  of  the  newly  established  permanent 
court  of  international  criminal  justice  and  who  kept 
on  supporting  the  rule  of  law  and  fighting  against 
impunity to advance global justice. As fellow Koreans, 
we are especially proud of President Song’s outstanding 
contribution  and  remarkable  achievement  as 
the 
President and judge of the Court for such a long period 
of time. We would like to thank him.
My  delegation  also  commends  the  joint  efforts 
by  the  Chambers,  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  and 
the  Registry,  which  have  laid  a  solid  foundation  for 
the  effective  functioning  of  the  Court.  Thus  far,  the 
Court  has  demonstrated  notable  achievements  with 
its  involvement  in  eight  situations.  The  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor has devoted itself to its duties in spite of an 
increased workload in the past year. In particular, we 
welcome  the  fact  that  there  has  been  progress  in  the 
case of Mr. Laurent Gbagbo regarding the situation in 
Côte d’Ivoire, which has passed the review of Pre-Trial 
Chamber I for the confirmation of the charge.
We also note that the caseload of the Chambers and 
workload of the Office of the Prosecutor has increased 
significantly in the past year. The ICC has completed 
its final judgement and sentence conviction in the case 
of  Germain  Katanga,  who  was  sentenced  to  12  years 
imprisonment  with  respect  to  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
There are also many cases in the trial stage, such 
as the trial of Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo regarding 
the  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic.  The 
Appeals  Chamber  has  been  actively  performing  its 
essential function of judicial supervision with respect 
to  various  cases,  such  as  the  case  of  Mr.  Lubanga 
Dyilo  and  Mr.  Ngudjolo  Chui.  The  Chamber  also 
issued  a  judgement  to  uphold  the  very  contrasting 
Pre-Trial  Chamber’s  decisions  on  Libya  admissibility 
challenges in two cases. That is attributable to a precise 
interpretation of the principle of complementarity and 
related articles of the Rome Statute.
Despite  the  Court’s  remarkable  achievements, 
however, much remains to be done in order to accomplish 
its mandate. Those goals cannot be achieved completely 
through the efforts of the ICC alone. Indeed, it is also 
crucial  to  enhance  the  international  community’s 
ongoing endeavours in the pursuit of justice, the rule of 
law and sustainable peace. Building upon the existing 
agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC, 
we  cannot  overemphasize  how  vital  it  is  for  the  two 
organizations to strengthen their relationship further.
Furthermore,  it  is  also  critical  for  the  Court  to 
garner ample support and cooperation from all Member 
States. Without their full cooperation, the ICC cannot 
execute the outstanding arrest warrants for perpetrators 
of  grave  crimes,  nor  conduct  thorough  investigations 
for  the  appropriate  prosecutions.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  was  established  in  order  to  embody 
the  guiding  principles  of  the  Rome  Statute  —  to  end 
impunity  and  contribute  to  the  prevention  of  grave 
crimes,  including  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity. To fulfil its mandate fully, the ICC 
should  be  respected  as  a  non-political,  independent 
and judicial institution by all stakeholders and by State 
parties to the Rome Statute. By doing so, we can expect 
the ICC to continue to pursue criminal accountability 
against the most serious crimes of international concern 
and thus keep making a positive contribution to laying 
a  solid  foundation  for  sustainable  global  peace  in  the 
future.
The  Republic  of  Korea  will  always  remain  one 
of  the  strongest  supporters  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  will  continue 
working relentlessly to attain that common goal of the 
international community.
Mr. Elias-Fatile (Nigeria): We thank the President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Song, 
for  the  report  of  the  Court  (see  A/69/321),  which  is 
before us for consideration today. We commend him on 
his  leadership  of  the  Court  throughout  the  past  years 
and  wish  him  success  in  his  future  endeavours  after 
24/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
completing his ICC assignment next year. We also wish 
to take this opportunity to express appreciation to the 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute  of  the  ICC,  Ambassador  Tiina  Intelmann,  for 
her  work  in  coordinating  the  affairs  of  the  Assembly 
during  her  tenure,  which  expires  in  December  2014. 
In the same vein, we congratulate the President-elect, 
Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  Minister  of  Justice  of  Senegal,  and 
look  forward  to  his  endorsement  at  the  thirteenth 
session of the Assembly, in December.
to  promote.  We  have  been  demonstrating  our  abiding 
commitment to the promotion of these values in diverse 
ways.  Nigeria  is  a  member  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  which  we  ratified  on 
27 September 2001. We are committed to the ICC and 
to  the  fundamental  values  of  the  Statute.  We  endorse 
the guiding principles and objectives of the ICC, and we 
have consistently underlined the structural importance 
of the ICC in the fight against impunity and the quest 
for judicial accountability.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  appreciable  progress 
recorded  by  the  ICC  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  Nigeria  commends  the 
Tribunal for its trailblazing contributions in developing 
substantive  and  procedural  international  criminal  law 
and the promotion of the rule of law. Through its work, 
the  ensuring  of  accountability  for  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes has been strengthened.
The  objective  of  the  ICC  is  based  on  the  concept 
that  impunity  must  be  challenged  and  that  everybody 
should be held accountable for their actions. Therefore, 
the  cooperation  of  States,  international  organizations 
and  civil  society  is  vital  for  the  Court  to  continue  to 
discharge its role as enshrined in the Rome Statute. To 
this  effect,  we  commend  His  Excellency  Mr.  Uhuru 
Kenyatta, President of Kenya, who at great personal risk 
appeared in The Hague on 8 October as a private citizen 
in response to an invitation by the Court. We consider 
that to be the height of cooperation that anyone or any 
State can accord to the Court, and it also demonstrates 
commitment to and respect for the rule of law.
However, we wish to express our concern that the 
ICC did not dismiss the case against President Kenyatta 
despite  having  failed  to  establish  a  case  against  him. 
Therefore, we call on the Court to show more respect to 
African leaders and to engage with the African Union 
and African States on a mutual and respectful basis, as 
we all share the same values of promoting the rule of 
law and fighting impunity for the most serious crimes. 
It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that,  of  the  122  countries 
that are States parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC, 
34 are African States. Africa is thus the continent with 
the highest number of members. Indeed, that significant 
number should not be alienated.
As  a  signatory  to  the  Rome  Statute,  Nigeria  is 
faithfully committed to the ideals of the ICC. Our stance 
on  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  peace  and  security, 
democracy,  good  governance  and  accountability  is  in 
line  with  the  principles  that  the  ICC  was  established 
We  believe  that  impunity  must  be  addressed 
resolutely  wherever  it  occurs  in  the  world,  and  we 
have  instituted  different  instruments  to  address  it 
domestically.  It  is  our  belief  that  the  aspiration  to 
a  global  system  that  bears  on  the  rule  of  law,  where 
accountability  and  social  justice  are  the  foundations 
of durable peace, should be a source of inspiration to 
all. Indeed, it should be a priority for the international 
community, for world leaders and for citizens alike.
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya):  The  report  before  us  today 
(see A/69/321) is the tenth that we have received from 
the International Criminal Court (ICC), and we thank 
the Secretary-General for it. I would also like to take 
this opportunity to recognize Judge Sang-Hyun Song, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Judge 
Song has without doubt presided over the ICC during 
a  most  difficult  and  challenging  period.  During  his 
tenure, the ICC has grown in both stature and reach. As 
this will be his last attendance at the General Assembly 
as President of the Court, 1 would like to wish him on 
behalf of the Republic of Kenya all the very best in his 
future endeavours.
Over  the  years,  we  have  continued  to  encourage 
the ICC to expand its activities, to enhance its work, to 
improve its efficiencies and to continue to deliver for the 
Member States and, more importantly, for the victims of 
crimes within the ambit of its jurisdiction. We created 
the  Court  because  we  believed  that  the  international 
community - by which we mean all countries, rich and 
poor alike - needed a common platform for the exercise 
of  international  jurisprudence.  As  President  Uhuru 
Kenyatta recently stated in his address to a joint sitting 
of the Senate and the National Assembly:
“Given  our  experience,  however,  with  the 
Court, many have since asked why we acted with 
such enthusiasm [to join the Court.] It was because 
we believed then, as we do now, that in an unequal 
world,  only  a  common  set  of  rules  governing 
international conduct could keep anarchy at bay.”
14-59737
25/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
The  Court  was  created  to  ensure  that  no  country 
would have a privileged relationship within it and that 
no  individual  would  enjoy  special  privilege  before  it. 
As  with  any  young  institution  in  its  early  years,  we 
continued to engage, encourage and provide guidance 
to the Court in order to try to instruct it so as to keep 
it  faithful  to  our  objectives,  to  keep  it  aligned  with 
the  Rome  Statute,  and  to  keep  it  focused  on  what  we 
believed  was  the  kind  of  future  we  wished  to  see  in 
the context of the work of international jurisprudence. 
As we look at the report of the International Criminal 
Court  that  is  before  us  today,  we  cannot  help  but 
feel  deep  disappointment  and  a  little  let  down  by  the 
institution  for  which  we  had  such  great  expectations 
and aspirations.
The conclusion contained in the report tells a sad 
and disheartening story of low ambition, poor execution 
and little success. The Court says in the conclusion that
“the  activities  of 
the  International  Criminal 
Court  continue  to  grow,  with  the  first  ever  final 
judgement rendered and 8,040 victims represented 
in  six  cases  at  the  trial  preparation  or  trial  stage 
of  proceedings,  which  is  more  than  ever  before” 
(A/69/321, para. 98).
In  a  world  that  has  been  consumed  by  violent 
and  astronomically  devastating  regional  wars  and 
clashes,  and  where  hundreds  of  thousands  —  if  not 
millions — of people have died over the past 10 years, 
it  seems  extraordinary  that  the  ICC  has  only  one 
judgement  to  show  for  its  years  of  existence  and  a 
victims’ footprint of only 8,040. The ICC has registered 
in its report a rather anaemic, underachieving account 
of  itself  to  Member  States.  That  to  us  is  simply 
confounding. It is also truly depressing to imagine that 
the Court would stand before Member States and state 
in its most recent report that it has finalized only one 
judgement and rendered representation for only 8,040 
victims. 
Clearly  something  is  deeply  wrong.  It  comes  as 
no  surprise,  therefore,  that  the  conclusion  contained 
in  the  same  report  also  states  for  the  first  time  ever 
that no new State had ratified the Rome Statute during 
the  latest  reporting  period.  Clearly,  the  Court,  which 
continues  to  enjoy  membership  from  one  segment  of 
countries of the world, is having difficulties convincing 
new countries that are not signatories to the Court to 
join  it  and  enhance  its  international  reputation  and 
work.
For  those  of  us  who  have  interacted  with  the 
Court  intimately  over  the  past  few  years,  it  is  clear 
that something radical and urgent must be done if the 
Court is to stand any chance of long-term survival as 
a  viable  and  credible  international  institution.  Kenya 
remains deeply concerned by the current interpretation 
and implementation of the Rome Statute, and for us this 
may very well be the undoing of the Court. While the 
ICC endeavours to carry out its mandate and continues 
to  receive  earnest  cooperation  from  States  parties,  it 
may  appear  that  in  the  present  state  of  interpretation 
and  implementation,  the  ideals  of  the  Rome  Statute  - 
namely,  punishment  for  serious  crimes,  fighting 
impunity,  national  healing,  and  reconciliation  and 
reparations  for  victims  -  may  actually  be  achievable. 
A  cursory  look  and  superficial  reading  of  the  annual 
report  may  even  lead  one  to  believe  that  success  is 
indeed at hand. However, our delegation believes that 
the  current  interpretation  and  implementation  of  the 
Rome  Statute  are  counterproductive  and  antagonistic 
to the very ideals contained in the Rome Statute.
Kenya,  as  a  situation  country,  continues  to  be 
painfully aware of the manner in which the ICC operates 
and  the  interpretation  it  gives  to  the  Rome  Statute. 
After  six  years  as  a  situation  country  and  one  entire 
election  cycle  later,  we  are  beginning  to  recognize 
that  the  manner  in  which  the  ICC  and  the  Office  of 
the Prosecutor operate can be severely disruptive and 
even detrimental to the process of political and social 
progress,  healing  and  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
security.  The  Kenyan  population  has  a  deep  desire 
to  proceed  with  matters  of  social  reconciliation  and 
development.
It  is  therefore  deeply  regretted  that  the  ICC 
continues to be a hindrance and a stumbling block for 
that aspiration of the Kenyan people. Surely, this cannot 
be  why  we  created  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Our  continued  silence  and  acceptance  of  the  status 
quo,  therefore,  will  only  undermine  the  legitimacy  of 
the  Court  and  its  core  mandate,  including  the  fight 
against impunity. It also does a great disservice to the 
victims in whose name the proceedings continue to be 
perpetuated, not to mention that it violates the rights of 
the accused as protected by the Rome Statute.
One  of  the  first  things  that  the  Court  must  do  to 
mend its ways is to unshackle itself from a pernicious 
group  of  countries  that  have  hijacked  its  operational 
mandate  and  created  a  distorted  institution  that  now 
represents  the  moral,  ethical  and,  most  disturbingly, 
26/28 
14-59737
30/10/2014 
A/69/PV.34
political  values  of  a  group  of  countries.  The  agenda 
of  that  group  of  countries  seems  to  us  to  represent  a 
very  shameless,  disruptive  and  unrelenting  pursuit. 
This  is  witnessed  in  the  working  groups  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  here  in  New  York  and  at 
The Hague. It is also witnessed in the recruitment and 
operational practices of the Court. It is witnessed in its 
judicial  and  prosecutorial  behaviour,  and  even  in  the 
group’s  insidious  manipulation  of  third-party  actors, 
particularly civil society organizations, as interlocutors 
of the Court.
The wealth and power that have given that group of 
countries their arrogance to lay claim to the high ground 
of international action is well known. But what is also 
well known is the genesis of that wealth, mostly born of 
imperialists  and  colonial  adventure,  tax  and  financial 
havens,  and  a  dogged  proprietorship  over  intellectual 
property  in  a  manner  that  denies  other  countries  the 
technology  they  need  for  their  own  development. 
Indeed,  there  exists  a  similar  proprietorship  that  this 
cabal  of  countries  exercises  over  the  ICC.  That  is 
driven  by  those  who  think  that  because  they  fund  a 
disproportionately larger amount of the budget for the 
operations  and,  I  might  add,  digressions  of  the  ICC, 
that therefore they have an inherent right to lay claim to 
a special relationship with the ICC, including its staff, 
prosecutor and judges. But what we say is that money, 
like might, does not necessarily make right.
I know that I have digressed, but I did so only to 
make a single point. The point is that the ICC is failing 
us  because  in  its  leadership,  in  its  core  professional 
staffing, in its financing and in its operations it seeks to 
represent an ethos, morality, values and jurisprudential 
paradigm that represents one segment of the Assembly 
States of Parties.
The ICC was created as an international institution 
that  was  intended  to  work  for  all  the  signatory 
member States, irrespective of size, wealth or political 
dispensation. But what we have witnessed in the Court 
over  the  past  five  years,  in  particular,  is  seriously 
disturbing. The Court seems more interested in quasi-
judicial theatre that is not in pursuit of justice and the 
fight  against  impunity,  or  in  supplicant  service  to  its 
broad  membership,  but  rather  seems  to  be  driven  by 
the parochial issues and political objectives of a small 
group of member States.
In paragraph 64, the report states that “the Rome 
Statute was never intended to replace national courts”. 
While  that  is  true,  we  also  know  that  the  Rome 
Statute  is  not  only  about  complementarity.  Beyond 
complementarity,  no  attempt  is  made  in  the  report  to 
give member States the benefit of the Court’s experience 
in implementing the Rome Statute. Yet we all know that 
it  is  the  judicious,  impartial  application  of  the  Rome 
Statute that the Court seems to be unable to muster.
When  we,  the  member  States,  were  forming  the 
International Criminal Court, we were convinced that 
we  were  setting  up  a  Court  with  higher  standards  of 
practice and procedures than those found in our national 
jurisdictions. However, today we find ourselves saddled 
with  a  Court  that  has  lower  thresholds  and  standards 
than those found in our national courts. That is simply 
unacceptable.  We  therefore  believe  that  the  Rome 
Statute is undergoing a test of veracity, relevance and 
impartiality, both in its application and in its value, and 
we  therefore  urge  member  States,  for  the  sake  of  the 
Court itself, to revisit the Rome Statute and re-examine 
its interpretation and implementation.
The report we have in front of us, as we said earlier, 
is a sad litany of low ambition and obfuscation, couched 
in professional non-statements. Paragraphs 2 through 84 
of the report leave us none the wiser on the experience 
of  the  Court.  None  of  the  organizational  realities  and 
challenges  that  the  Court  has  faced  in  implementing 
its  mandate,  including  its  singular,  myopic  obsession 
with African situations, is contained in that report. It 
lacks  analysis  and  perspective.  The  report  is  a  lame 
accounting  of  what  is  in  fact  an  institutional  failure 
of historical proportions. It is a heartbreaking account 
in which the aspirations of millions of people and the 
investment of time and tens of millions of dollars from 
States parties have no correlation whatsoever with the 
outcomes that can be enjoyed and celebrated by the ICC 
membership, and indeed by the world at large.
Were it not for the fact that the noble objectives of 
international rule of law and the historical imperative 
of  our  time  to  fight  impunity  were  such  a  pressing, 
urgent  and  necessary  requirement  for  international 
peace and security, it would also be our historical duty 
to  put  the  ICC  to  rest,  thus  save  it  from  further  self-
inflicted misery and the international community tens 
of millions of dollars, while sparing the long-suffering 
victims the pangs of false hope and empty promises.
The  President:  The  representative  of  the  Sudan 
has  asked  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply. 
May I remind members that statements in the exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to ten minutes for the 
first  intervention,  and  five  minutes  for  the  second 
14-59737
27/28
A/69/PV.34 
30/10/2014
intervention.  Statements  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
the 
Mr. Saeed (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): My delegation 
would  like  to  exercise  its  right  to  reply  regarding 
the  request  in  the  statement  of  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the  Nordic 
countries that the Government of the Sudan cooperate 
with the International Criminal Court (ICC).
The Nordic countries would appear to be acting in a 
spirit of confidence and trusteeship. They have imposed 
themselves  as  spokespersons  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  They  seem  to  believe  that  they  are 
going to implement international justice. They should 
concentrate on their own issues and internal challenges, 
and not give us lessons about international justice when 
it is related to Africa even as they turn a blind eye to 
what  happens  in  other  countries  of  the  world.  They 
remain  silent  about  such  situations  because  countries 
that violate international justice believe themselves to 
be above justice and the rule of law.
The Sudan is not a party to the Rome Statute, and 
we are not concerned with the ICC’s verdicts. We have 
no commitment to the ICC regarding the 1969 Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties.  The  practice  of 
the  ICC  has  nothing  to  do  with  justice.  The  ICC  has 
become  a  tool  of  international  conflict  and  politics. 
The representation of the Court in the Security Council 
reflects a double standard. A decision by the Security 
Council  to  refer  a  certain  country  to  the  ICC  is  the 
very same decision that pre-empts other citizens from 
reaching the ICC. That is a double standard. It is mere 
politicization.
The  ICC  is  not  international,  because  it  seems  to 
be only a court for Africans. It targets Africa’s leaders 
and countries while it overlooks what is happening in 
other parts of the world. That has been our experience 
with  the  ICC  to  date.  Domestic  legal  institutions 
are  concerned  with  fighting  impunity,  which  is  one 
purpose of international justice. We all agree that such 
a  principle  should  be  implemented  without  double 
standards.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
28/28 
14-59737
