United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
56th plenary meeting
Thursday, 20 November 2014, 11 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 11.05 a.m.
Agenda item 64
High-level meeting on the occasion of the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child
Promotion and protection of the rights of children
(a)  Promotion and protection of the rights of children
The  President:  We  meet  today  to  commemorate 
the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child. That landmark 
document  is  the  cornerstone  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of children’s rights worldwide. It reflects our 
collective commitment to ensuring that every child in 
every society has the right to a fair start in life. Over 
the  past  25  years,  the  Convention  has  created  new 
perspectives on the place and role of children in society, 
while  serving  as  the  basis  for  important  legislation. 
Indeed, its provisions not only ensure special care and 
assistance  for  children,  they  also  encourage  their  full 
participation in their communities and in all decisions 
affecting them.
In 2002, the General Assembly held a special session 
on children to review progress since the World Summit 
for Children, which had given a new impetus to global 
commitments  on  children’s  rights.  That  was  the  very 
first time that children participated in a United Nations 
conference  as  delegates.  Addressing  the  Assembly, 
children described their visions of a world fit for them, 
a world where their fundamental rights are respected, 
a  world  without  exploitation,  abuse,  violence,  war  or 
poverty.  They  spoke  of  a  world  with  access  to  health 
care and education and a thriving environment. As we 
look back today, we must ponder the question of how 
far we have come in making that vision a reality.
We  should  feel  encouraged  by  the  significant 
improvement  in  the  living  conditions  of  children 
around the world. The Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) have focused national and international efforts, 
while  also  generating  resources  to  support  a  number 
of  key  initiatives  related  to  children.  For  example, 
mortality  rates  for  children  under  5  have  been  cut  in 
half,  partly  thanks  to  immunization  campaigns  and 
improved  access  to  clean  water  and  sanitation.  More 
children  than  ever  before  attend  school,  with  about 
9 in 10 children in developing countries now enrolled in 
primary  education.  Extreme  poverty  and  hunger  have 
also decreased.
Yet  significant  disparities  remain.  Children  born 
into  poor  families,  living  in  conflict  or  post-conflict 
countries or growing up in marginalized communities 
do not have the same opportunities to realize their full 
potential.  In  many  countries  around  the  world,  girls 
still have limited access to education and are at risk of 
early and forced marriage. Child malnutrition remains 
a  serious  issue,  as  do  child  labour,  child  trafficking 
and  child  prostitution.  We  must  continue  investing  in 
the  rights  of  all  children  across  the  world,  regardless 
of their gender, ethnicity, race, disability or economic 
status.  Children  are  the  fundamental  building  blocks 
of  the  future  we  want.  Indeed,  by  strengthening  their 
capacity  to  mature  into  engaged,  responsible  and 
productive adults, society as a whole stands to benefit. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-64058 (E)
*1464058*
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
The deadline for the MDGs is quickly approaching. 
We  must  now  build  on  their  success  and  ensure  that 
children’s  rights  and  well-being  are  fully  reflected  in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  With  targets  for 
reducing  inequality,  ending  violence  against  children 
and  combating  child  poverty,  the  proposals  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  provide  a  solid  base  from  which  to  move 
forward.  It  will  also  be  critical  to  maintain  a  holistic 
approach and address other factors that can undermine 
development gains, such as poverty, violence, conflict, 
weak  governance  and  the  absence  of  the  rule  of  law. 
Equally  important  is  the  need  to  ensure  mobilization 
of  the  resources  that  will  be  required  to  implement  a 
truly  transformative  development  agenda  that  puts 
the  welfare  of  all  people,  especially  children,  at  the 
forefront.
In  that  regard,  investing  in  children  and  young 
people  should  be  central  to  discussions  on  financing 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  At  the  global 
level,  that  should  translate  into  new  and  innovative 
partnerships between Governments, the private sector, 
civil society and financial institutions. Firm domestic- 
resource commitments for children will also be crucial 
as economies grow and demands for social intervention 
become  more  diversified.  Governments  must  ensure 
that  the  benefits  of  growth  are  shared  equally  and 
equitably  across  groups  and  generations,  focusing  in 
particular on the needs of the most vulnerable.
the  adoption  of 
Twenty-five  years  after 
the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  we  must  ask 
ourselves if the world is a better place for the child. This 
afternoon’s  interactive  panel  discussion  will  provide 
an opportunity to further explore that question. As we 
reflect on how the next 25 years can result in further 
promoting the universal realization of children’s rights, 
let  me  conclude  with  these  inspirational  words  from 
the  children  who  addressed  the  special  session  of  the 
Assembly in 2002: “We want a world fit for children, 
because a world fit for us is a world fit for everyone” 
(A/S-27/PV.1, p. 8).
We shall now hear statements in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of resolution 68/273.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  Executive  Director  of  the 
United Nations Children’s Fund.
Mr. Lake (United Nations Children’s Fund): I am 
truly honoured to speak on such a wonderful occasion 
as this, the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  and  even  more  honoured 
to  be  doing  so  on  behalf  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, who could not be here today because he has 
important  meetings  in  Washington  that  he  could  not 
get away from. I have often seen how committed he is 
to the human rights of all people, including, of course, 
children.  I  would  also  like  to  sincerely  thank  you, 
Mr. President, not only for your excellent remarks just 
now but for your support for the wonderful event held 
this morning in the General Assembly Hall, as well as 
for your support for children and children’s rights. All 
of  this  could  not  have  taken  place  without  your  help 
and  support.  And  let  me  add  my  own  warm  welcome 
to Teyise Dlamini, who is here and has travelled all the 
way from Swaziland to speak on behalf of all children 
and young people. I will be brief so that we can get to 
Ms. Dlamini all the sooner.
Let  me  start  with  an  irreverent  question.  What 
do  Dr.  Seuss,  the  beloved  author  of  children’s  books, 
and the Convention on the Rights of the Child have in 
common?  The  answer  is  that  they  both  believe  that, 
as  Dr.  Seuss  wrote,  “A  person’s  a  person,  no  matter 
how small”. That is likely the first time that Dr. Seuss 
has been quoted in the General Assembly Hall; I also 
believe that it will almost certainly be the last. But his 
words are fitting today as we celebrate the Convention’s 
twenty-fifth  anniversary.  Why?  Because  the  health, 
soul and intelligence of a society are measured by how 
the human rights of its youngest and smallest citizens 
are recognized and acted on everywhere. That is why 
the  Convention,  the  most  rapidly  and  widely  ratified 
human rights treaty in history, was such an important 
milestone. For the first time, it articulated the principle 
that  regardless  of  gender,  ethnicity,  economic  status, 
religious belief or disability, all children, everywhere, 
possess  innate  rights,  no  less  than  adults  —  rights  to 
health, education, protection and participation, for all.
But  a  recognized  right  is  not  necessarily  an 
executed right. Children’s rights are brought to life not 
simply  through  pronouncements  but  through  policies 
and  persistent  commitment.  A  society’s  strength  is 
secured not merely through good intentions but through 
strategic investments. And positive change is achieved 
not only through powerful words but through practical 
actions. For without action, without results, the rights 
enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
amount to little more than words on a piece of paper.
For  the  past  25  years,  Governments,  communities, 
non-governmental  organizations,  United  Nations 
2/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
agencies, businesses and, especially, children themselves 
have  together  translated  rights  into  results.  Millions 
more  children  are  surviving  beyond 
their  fifth 
birthdays,  receiving  vaccinations  against  preventable 
diseases  such  as  polio,  and  enjoying  improved  access 
to education, sanitation, water, nutrition and protection 
from all manner of abuses.
But for millions of children, life is not better. Life 
is  not  better  for  some  17,000  children  under  5  who 
will  die  today,  mostly  because  of  causes  that  we  can 
prevent. Life is not better for the 250 million primary-
school-age children who cannot read, write or do their 
numbers,  even  though  more  than  half  of  them  have 
spent at least four years in school. Life is not better for 
around 120 million girls under the age of 20, or about 
one in 10, who have been subjected to sexual violence 
at some point in their lives. Think of it — one in every 
10.  And  life  is  not  better  for  the  nearly  570  million 
children living in extreme poverty, their needs unmet 
and deprived of their dignity and their rights.
On  this  day  of  celebration,  we  must  also  ask 
ourselves some hard questions. How could we let this 
happen?  How  could  we  achieve  progress  for  some, 
yet continue to fail so many? How could we so betray 
the  promise  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child — betray the children most denied the rights that 
the Convention enshrines? Part of the answer, I think, 
is this — too often, we have measured progress through 
national  statistical  averages.  But  averages  are  exactly 
that  —  averages.  Averages  do  not  capture  every  life. 
Averages  do  not  see  the  children  being  left  behind. 
The  girl  kept  at  home  instead  of  being  allowed  to  go 
to  school.  The  boy  languishing  in  an  institution  just 
because he lives with a disability. The children recruited 
and brutalized by militias, made to fight for causes they 
can  barely  understand,  seeing  the  worst  of  humanity, 
and then being forced to inflict that on others.
And in today’s turbulent times, the threat to children 
increases. Syrian children are made to flee far from their 
homes, making the difficult, dangerous, heartbreaking 
journey  to  a  refugee  camp.  They  are  not  only  caught 
in  the  cross-fire  of  brutal,  protracted  conflicts,  but 
see  their  schools  deliberately,  outrageously  used  and 
targeted for military purposes. The children watching 
friends,  relatives  and  heroic  aid  workers  fall  to  the 
scourge  of  Ebola,  wondering  who  will  be  next.  Little 
wonder  that  the  Secretary-General  reflected  recently 
that it seems “as if the world is falling apart”.
But  while  the  humanitarian  community  may  now 
be  losing  ground  to  those  escalating  emergencies,  we 
are  not  losing  heart,  because  the  difference  between 
reaching, say, 80 per cent of all we need to do and 90 per 
cent of our humanitarian goals is not just a statistical 
10 per cent. That 10 per cent represents tens or hundreds 
or  thousands  of  lives.  That  10  per  cent  represents 
more  children  being  fed,  protected,  immunized  and 
educated —  an  inch  more  solid  ground  from  which  a 
stronger root of development can take hold. The ground 
we  do  gain  —  each  child’s  rights  we  protect,  each 
child’s life we save or improve — is a success that must 
still  be  recognized  and  even  celebrated.  Such  small 
but significant individual wins will continue to be our 
primary concern. Because meeting the needs of a child 
is never a small thing. It is, in fact, everything to that 
child, her family and community, and thus to her country. 
And  ultimately,  to  all  of  us,  because,  when  we  invest 
in children’s health, nutrition, education, participation 
and protection, we invest in all of our futures — in the 
teachers, doctors, innovators and environmentalists of 
tomorrow, in the next generation of parents and leaders, 
who will then guide future generations.
In  doing  so,  we  are  not  only  preparing  their 
minds  and  bodies  —  we  are  building  their  hearts, 
we  are  building  their  spirits.  It  is  our  job,  our 
responsibility, our obligation under the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child to show every child the best of 
humanity  —  cooperation,  not  conflict;  humanity,  not 
hatred; reconciliation, not revenge. Children who grow 
up  seeing  those  qualities  around  them  will  be  more 
likely to replicate them in their own lives, more likely 
to extend them to their own children and their fellow 
citizens, and more able, and more willing, to shape the 
world  that  we  leave  them.  And  that  in  the  end  is  the 
central message and meaning of the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child: the importance of preparing today’s 
children  to  become  tomorrow’s  adults,  tomorrow’s 
leaders,  and  to  do  so  by  extending  the  Convention’s 
promise  to  those  millions  of  children  now  being  left 
behind.
As we imagine a better future, let us imagine the 
moment  in  2039  when  today’s  children  celebrate  the 
fiftieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of 
the Child. They will celebrate not only promises made  
but promises kept. They will celebrate results, reflected 
in the lives of their own children — children who also 
are  prepared  to  meet  their  responsibility  to  build  a 
better world.
14-64058
3/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
The President:  I  thank  the  Executive  Director  of 
the United Nations Children’s Fund for his statement.
Members will recall that in its resolution 68/273 the 
General Assembly decided that the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights would participate in 
high-level meetings. I understand that Mr. Zeid Ra’ad 
Al  Hussein,  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  is  unable  to  join  us  today,  owing  to 
other  pressing  business.  I  should  now  like  to  consult 
members  with  a  view  to  giving  the  floor  to  Mr.  Ivan 
Šimonović,  Assistant  Secretary-General  for  Human 
Rights.
If there is no objection, may I take it that it is the 
wish  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  without  setting  a 
precedent,  to  invite  Mr.  Ivan  Šimonović,  Assistant-
Secretary-General  for  Human  Rights,  to  make  a 
statement at this meeting?
It was so decided.
In accordance with the decision just taken, I now 
give  the  floor  to  the  Assistant  Secretary-General  for 
Human Rights.
Mr.  Šimonović  (Assistant  Secretary-General  for 
Human Rights): Since the adoption of the Convention 
on the Rights of the Child 25 years ago, we should ask 
ourselves: is the world a safer place for children? Are 
children  more  empowered  than  they  were  in  1989? 
Do  they  enjoy  better  health  and  well-being?  There 
are reasons for concern. Children caught up in armed 
conflicts  continue  to  be  injured  and  killed,  and  we 
see  children  themselves  injuring  and  killing  others. 
Children  are  kidnapped  in  their  schools,  drowned  at 
sea while trying to flee conflict or poverty, exploited 
through  child  labour,  induced  via  the  Internet  to  join 
armed groups, or they fall victim to paedophile rings. 
Young girls are forced into marriage or not allowed to go 
to school, or they become victims of harmful practices. 
Children are also bullied and cyberbullied because of 
their  disability,  ethnic  origin,  sexual  orientation  or 
other  perceived  difference.  Some  then  take  their  own 
lives.  Girls  starve  themselves  to  conform  to  ideas  of 
beauty. The picture of modern childhood looks grim.
However, at the same time we also have good news 
to  celebrate.  In  aggregate  terms,  children  today  have 
access to a better standard of life, more education and 
a higher level of health than ever before in the history 
of the world. In most countries they are not allowed to 
go  to  work  at  an  early  age.  Thanks  to  digital  media, 
accessed through new information and communication 
technologies, children have vastly greater opportunities 
to learn, participate, play, work and socialize. We have 
explored only a fraction of the opportunities that this 
technology  presents  for  empowering  children.  That 
technology is also facilitating a child’s right to be heard 
and children’s participation in decisions affecting them. 
Children are finding their voice, and the legitimacy of 
their voice is now widely recognized.
From  standing  up  for  their  rights  to  education  to 
seeking governance reform in their communities, we see 
an increasing number of children not only expressing 
their views but taking the lead in social movements. I 
also think that it is fair to say that, in 2014, if violations 
occur, children have far greater possibilities for gaining 
access  to  various  complaints  mechanisms  and  for 
seeking redress than they did 25 years ago.
Many  of  those  positive  developments  are  fragile, 
and,  certainly,  great  inequalities  among  States  and 
within  States  persist.  There  remains  much  to  be 
done.  An  example  is  States’  obligations  under  article 
24  of  the  Convention  to  eliminate  preventable  child 
deaths. Efforts over the past 25 years have resulted in 
a  staggering  17,000  fewer  child  deaths  each  day.  The 
challenges remain, however: some 6.3 million children 
under 5 years of age died in 2013. With the knowledge 
and technology available today, that is inexcusable.
Deep  inequalities  and  pervasive  discrimination 
lie  at  the  root  of  most  of  those  deaths.  We  must  stop 
considering child mortality to be an inevitable fact of 
life. To that end, the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights and the World Health 
Organization  recently  released  technical  guidance  on 
a  human-rights-based  approach  to  preventing  child 
mortality grounded in the principles of the Convention. 
The  guidance,  which  was  launched  two  months  ago 
in  Geneva,  lists  tangible,  concrete  measures  that 
States can take, using a human-rights-based approach, 
to  reduce  and  eliminate  preventable  mortality  and 
morbidity of children under the age of 5. The existence 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  and  its 
globally  agreed  position  that  children  have  rights  has 
laid the foundation for such improvements in children’s 
lives in the past quarter-century.
After looking back at the 25 years of the Convention 
on the Rights of the Child, we are compelled to look to 
the future. Now is the time to recommit to the vision 
of the Convention and to its full implementation. It is 
4/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
also  the  time  to  bring  children  and  their  rights  more 
centrally into our peace and security and development 
thinking and action, notably in the post-2015 sustainable 
development goals. Our future in those areas depends 
on our children and our respect for their rights.
While  much  has  been  done  globally  to  achieve 
a  rights-based  vision  of  childhood  —  which  is  an 
achievement on the part of Member States — the role 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  must 
be  recognized  as  a  driving  force  through  its  regular 
public consideration of State’s efforts to implement the 
Convention and the gradual elaboration of the concrete 
meaning of children’s rights in practice. For instance, 
the  Committee  asks  all  States  what  they  are  doing  to 
ensure the coordination of policies relating to children 
within  and  across  all  levels  of  Government.  Do  they 
have  a  national  monitoring  mechanism  specific  to 
children’s  rights,  like  a  children’s  ombudsperson?  Is 
there  a  specific  national  budget  for  children?  Are  all 
decisions relating to a child based on the best interests 
of that particular child, rather than on the interests of 
the family, community or State?
Such questions posed in 1989 may have been met 
in  many  quarters  with  bewilderment.  Today  they  are 
accepted and acted upon as a normal part of efforts to 
render  greater  fulfilment  of  children’s  rights.  Let  us 
continue to fight for that noble goal.
The President: I now give the floor to the Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Children 
and Armed Conflict.
Ms.  Zerrougui  (Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  Children  and  Armed  Conflict): 
As  we  have  come  here  today  to  celebrate  the  twenty-
fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child, it is important to look back, as 
my colleague did, and highlight the long way that we 
have gone together to improve the protection of children. 
By ratifying the Convention, some 194 countries in the 
world  have  recognized  that  children,  boys  and  girls, 
have  rights  and  that  Governments  bear  the  primary 
responsibility  for  the  respect  for  and  protection  and 
fulfilment of those rights.
a  number  of  positive  changes  in  law  and  policy 
aimed  at  improving  the  lives  of  children  by  framing 
children’s basic needs, such as education and health, as 
inalienable rights, not as a privilege that only a few can 
enjoy. The enhanced protection of children’s rights has 
also  resulted  in  tangible  improvements  for  children’s 
development,  ranging  from  a  reduction  in  infant  and 
child mortality to an increase in school enrolment.
However,  the  progress  achieved  over  the  past  25 
years  remains  uneven.  In  conflict  situations,  children 
continue  to  be  killed,  maimed,  recruited  and  used 
by  armed  forces  and  groups,  and  deprived  of  health 
care  and  education.  Children  continue  to  be  the  most 
vulnerable to the impact of armed conflict in various 
parts  of  the  world.  In  my  travels  to  conflict  zones,  I 
have  met  too  many  children  forced  to  abandon  their 
homes, in some cases without their families. Recently, 
I met a child who, at the beginning of the conflict in 
South  Sudan,  happened  to  be  at  the  wrong  place  at 
the  wrong  time.  He  is  now  recovering  from  gunshot 
wounds and is struggling to walk again. Seven months 
after  he  was  injured,  he  still  did  not  know  where  his 
family was, but had been lucky enough to be brought 
to a centre supported by the United Nations to receive 
treatment.  That  is,  unfortunately,  not  always  the  case 
for every child.
In May 2015, we will mark the fifteenth anniversary
of  the  adoption  of  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  which  deals 
with  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed  conflict. 
The  Protocol  offers  a  solid  basis  for  building  legal, 
policy and operational frameworks at both the national 
and the international levels. Under the Protocol, States 
are required to ban compulsory recruitment below the 
age  of  18  and  to  ensure  that  any  individual  in  their 
armed forces under the age of 18 does not take part in 
hostilities.  States  parties  shall  also  take  all  necessary 
measures  to  prohibit  and  prevent  the  recruitment  and 
use of children under the age of 18 by non-State armed 
groups.  To  date,  158  Member  States  have  ratified 
the  Optional  Protocol,  and  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to call on those that have not yet done so to 
take steps towards ratification.
As  the  most  ratified  human  rights  treaty  in  the 
world,  the  Convention  has  resulted  in  a  significant 
international  consensus 
the  protection  and 
promotion of the rights of the child are a moral, social 
and  legal  imperative  for  all  of  us.  It  is  particularly 
encouraging  to  see  that  the  Convention  has  inspired 
that 
As part of my mandate, I continuously advocate for 
the protection of children in conflict, with Governments 
as  well  as  with  armed  groups.  To  that  end,  I  engage 
with  parties  to  conflict  and  all  relevant  stakeholders 
to  end  violations,  including  the  recruitment  and  use 
of children in armed conflict. And there is progress to 
14-64058
5/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
report. Years of engagement with parties to conflict to 
end the recruitment and use of children are starting to 
yield  results.  Twenty-five  years  after  the  adoption  of 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  and,  as  I 
said, nearly 15 years after the adoption of the Optional 
Protocol  on  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed 
conflict,  we  can  now  say  that  there  is  an  emerging 
consensus  among 
that 
children do not belong in national forces in conflict.
the  world’s  Governments 
Building  on 
launched 
the 
that  consensus,  I 
“Children,  Not  Soldiers”  campaign, 
jointly  with 
UNICEF,  to  end  the  recruitment  and  use  of  children 
by Government armed forces by 2016. I hope that we 
will  achieve  that  result  with  the  support  of  everyone. 
In  the  eight  months  since  we  launched  the  campaign, 
there  has  been  significant  progress.  The  Government 
of Yemen signed an action plan with the United Nations 
committing  itself  to  making  their  national  security 
forces child-free. Chad completed all the requirements 
under its action plan and was delisted. The Government 
of  South  Sudan  formally  recommitted  to  its  action 
plan to end the recruitment and use of children, while 
in  Somalia  the  Cabinet  adopted  the  Convention  on 
the Rights of the Child, which is awaiting ratification 
by  the  country’s  parliament.  The  Government  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  has  made  progress  in 
the implementation of the action plan and has appointed 
a  presidential  adviser  for  sexual  violence  and  child 
recruitment. In Afghanistan, a road map was developed 
to accelerate the implementation of the action plan.
I am naturally encouraged by that progress and by 
the momentum created by the campaign, but there is still 
a lot of work ahead of us. All concerned Governments 
and regional and non-governmental organizations must 
continue to work hand in hand with the United Nations, 
bilateral partners and donors, if we want to reach the 
objectives  of  the  campaign.  Ending  child  recruitment 
by Government forces in the next two years is possible, 
but  only  if  we  work  together  and  share  our  expertise 
and resources.
Although the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
has  contributed  to  greater  advocacy  and  awareness 
of  child  rights  worldwide,  our  mission  is  far  from 
complete.  Governments’  compliance  with  and  full 
integration of the Convention into national systems still 
present  challenges.  The  monitoring  and  reporting  of 
the six grave violations against children during armed 
conflict has proved to be an important tool informing 
the work of the Committee on the Rights of the Child 
in monitoring Governments’ obligations outlined in the 
Convention.
One  of  the  gaps  that  remains  of  great  concern  is 
ensuring  individual  accountability  for  violations  of 
children’s rights during armed conflict. I am encouraged 
by  the  recent  entry  into  force  of  the  third  Optional 
Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
in April, allowing the establishment of an international 
complaints procedure for violations of children’s rights, 
as  specified  in  the  Convention  and  Protocols.  That  is 
a step in the right direction to promote child victims’ 
rights and ensure better access to justice.
Since  the  onset  of  my  tenure,  I  have  made  the 
protection  of  education  and  health  care  a  priority,  as 
each  day  we  witness  an  alarming  number  of  attacks 
on schools, social infrastructure and hospitals, and on 
students, teachers and medical personnel. When I met 
families  from  Syria  who  had  left  everything  behind 
to  flee  the  conflict,  the  one  thing  parents  said  they 
really  wanted  was  a  school  that  their  children  could 
go to. They knew that every month that went by with 
their children out of school would be very difficult to 
make up for. The parents I met knew that nothing could 
replace the comfort of going to school every day, even 
in the midst of chaos, and they wanted to make sure that 
their children would not miss out on the chance to build 
a brighter future for themselves and their country.
It is time to turn aspirations into practice in all parts 
of the globe and put an end to the suffering of children. 
I count on Member States to honour the commitments 
that  they  have  made  by  ratifying  the  Convention  on 
the Rights of the Child and its Optional Protocols and 
by  endorsing  the  “Children,  Not  Soldiers”  campaign. 
I  will  continue  to  take  all  possible  opportunities  to 
advocate for stronger child-protection frameworks, and 
I  encourage  all  Member  States  to  support  initiatives 
that are being undertaken to respond to the challenges 
posed to child protection in conflict situations.
We shall pursue our efforts to recognize and address 
the shortcomings and challenges that we face in keeping 
children safe from the harm of conflict by ensuring that 
we  use  the  tools  developed  over  the  past  25  years  to 
protect children to their fullest. Building consensus on 
the urgency and importance of our collective action to 
protect children is critical.
I  would  like,  in  closing,  to  commend  the  work, 
dedication  and  tireless  efforts  of  the  child-protection 
actors, in particular, those who are working in complex 
6/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
security environments. Child victims count on all of us 
to stand together to respect, protect and promote their 
rights. We cannot fail to honour the promise we made 
to them 25 years ago.
Child recognizes the right of the child to freedom from 
violence.  Yet  only  10  per  cent  of  the  world’s  children 
are  protected  by  national  legislation  prohibiting  all 
forms of violence, including within the home.
The President: I now give the floor to the Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on  Violence 
against Children.
Ms.  Santos  Pais  (Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  Violence  against  Children):  It 
is  with  deep  emotion  that  I  am  participating  in  this 
important  commemorative  session.  I  was  here,  in 
this very Hall of the General Assembly, 25 years ago, 
witnessing  the  formal  adoption  of  the  Convention  on 
the Rights of the Child. It was a moment of immense 
joy,  in  which  we  celebrated  the  ground-breaking 
result of a long negotiation process, in which I had the 
privilege to participate. I also recall how we had been 
influenced by the spirit of the great Polish paediatrician 
Janusz Korczak, encouraging us to place children first 
and  above  all  legal,  political,  social  and  economic 
differences, and recognizing that children are citizens 
of  today  and  true  agents  of  change.  The  Convention 
reflects  that  important  vision  and  entrusts  us  with  a 
compelling  mission  —  to  spare  no  effort  to  translate 
its  provisions  into  a  tangible  reality  for  all  children, 
everywhere, at all times.
I have the honour to address the Assembly 25 years 
later and to reflect on whether the world we imagined 
then  has  become  a  reality.  My  mandate  exposes  me 
to the worst and to the best of humankind. The worst 
is  certainly  represented  by  the  countless  children 
exposed  to  violence,  often  in  a  pervasive,  hidden 
and  concealed  manner.  We  see  children  intentionally 
targeted in politically driven processes, manipulated in 
organized crime, sold and exploited for economic gains, 
disciplined through violent means, sexually abused in 
the  privacy  of  their  homes,  neglected  in  institutions, 
bullied  in  schools,  stigmatized  and  ill-treated  as  a 
result of superstition or harmful practices. Every five 
minutes, a child dies as a result of violence.
Children’s  pervasive  exposure  to  violence  is  well 
documented  by  United  Nations  reports,  academic 
evidence  and  children’s  heartbreaking  stories,  which 
all convey a pressing sense of urgency. For millions of 
children around the world, life is defined by two words: 
fear and pain. For them, the world has no safe havens, 
and  nations  are  missing  the  chance  to  build  a  better 
world  for  all.  The  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Violence  compromises  all  children’s  rights.  It 
goes hand in hand with deprivation, high risks of poor 
health, poor school performance and long-term welfare 
dependency. In early childhood, the impact of violence 
is often irreversible. As children grow, the cumulative 
exposure  to  manifestations  of  violence  becomes  a 
continuum  spreading  across  their  life  cycle  and  at 
times persisting across generations. Beyond the impact 
on  individual  victims  and  their  families,  violence  is 
associated with far-reaching costs for society. It diverts 
billions  of  dollars  from  social  spending,  slowing 
economic development and eroding nations’ human and 
social capital.
Can we then say that the world is a better place for 
children? Since 1989, the world has made tremendous 
strides towards the realization of children’s rights. The 
Convention  has  triggered  decisive  improvements  in 
national laws, in the establishment of institutions for the 
protection of children’s rights and in the development 
of  child-centred  policies  and  child-friendly  services. 
The voice of children is being given greater importance 
and is having an influence on policy-making. Thanks 
to the Convention, we have better trained professionals, 
we  have  seen  the  emergence  of  sound  evidence  on 
matters affecting children, and we see a positive change 
in behaviours and attitudes towards children. Progress 
across  countries  shows  that  violence  is  not  inevitable 
and can indeed be prevented and eliminated.
Thanks to those efforts, children are safer, healthier, 
better  educated  and  more  empowered.  But  that  better 
world is not good enough. The ambition of children is to 
help build a world as big as their dreams. If we want to 
fulfil that aspiration, we need to accelerate our efforts 
and make sure that the ethos of the Convention inspires 
the way in which we all design the world. And the best 
way to succeed is to have children at the drawing table.
My  mandate  also  exposes  me  to  the  very  best  of 
humankind.  And  the  best  comes,  not  surprisingly, 
from children themselves. Time and again, I meet child 
victims  emerging  from  the  worst  of  nightmares,  yet 
resilient, confident, generous and showing us adults the 
way ahead. In all regions of the world, young advocates 
join  hands  with  national  authorities,  civil  society 
and so many other allies to raise awareness about the 
14-64058
7/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
detrimental impact of violence and to empower young 
people to be the first line of protection against the risks 
of abuse and exploitation. Even in the most desperate 
situations, children reveal hope for a better world and 
determination to achieve lasting change. That is much 
more  than  just  positive  thinking;  it  is  about  positive 
achieving.  In  this  year  when  we  commemorate  the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention, we have a 
golden  opportunity  to  place  the  Convention  at  centre 
stage and to promote a quantum leap in the protection 
of  children  from  violence.  Placing  the  elimination  of 
violence against children on the post-2015 development 
agenda can indeed bring that about.
To  conclude,  one  thing  is  clear:  the  elimination 
of  violence  cannot  be  the  dream  of  a  few.  It  needs  to 
become  a  cause  for  all.  I  remain  fully  committed  to 
that endeavour. Children’s rights are more than a set of 
articles. The vision of the Convention will not be fully 
realized  unless  children’s  rights  become  one  of  the 
pillars that sustain society and are embraced as a core 
value  for  the  dialogue  between  generations.  A  better 
world for children is simply not enough. We need to aim 
for its perfection.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Chairperson  of  the  Committee  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child.
Ms.  Sandberg  (Committee  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child): It is an honour to be in the Hall today, in my 
capacity as Chairperson of the Committee on the Rights 
of  the  Child,  to  mark  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
November  1989  was  historic  in  many  ways,  not 
least  because  it  was  the  first  time  that  children  were 
recognized as rights-holders in an international treaty. 
It marked a critical turning point in addressing serious 
human rights abuses against children, not simply with 
acts of charity but with advocacy for systemic change, 
because children had rights that were to be respected. 
The Convention was the culmination of several decades 
of work to promote the rights of the child and the creation 
of a child-specific convention. Today, with 194 States 
parties, the Convention is the most widely ratified United 
Nations  human  rights  instrument.  Its  three  Optional 
Protocols continue to draw support from States around 
the  world,  steadily  improving  legal  standards  for  the 
respect, protection and fulfilment of children’s rights. 
Those  four  international  legal  instruments  together 
can  claim  over  530  ratifications  —  a  clear  sign  of 
commitment to ensuring that the rights of all children 
are respected. I would particularly like to congratulate 
States that have ratified all four instruments, and I call 
upon all States to ratify the third Optional Protocol on 
the communications procedure.
Today, there is certainly cause for celebration. The 
Convention has improved the lives of children, to one 
degree  or  another,  in  all  States  parties  and  beyond. 
Most  States  have  been  reviewed  by  the  Committee  at 
least twice, and States are taking measures in line with 
the  Committee’s  country-specific  recommendation. 
However,  there  is  still  a  lot  to  be  done.  In  order  to 
reinforce their commitment to children’s rights, I would 
like to encourage States to implement the Committee’s 
recommendations  to  an  even  greater  extent.  Creating 
the future we want depends on how we act now. Right 
now,  the  Convention  and  its  Optional  Protocols  must 
continue to work to bring about real improvements in 
the  lives  of  children.  For  that,  the  participation  of  all 
actors in society, including children, is crucial.
The  Committee  has  continually  highlighted  the 
importance  of  child  participation  and  has  given  it 
particular attention this year as we mark the Convention’s 
twenty-fifth anniversary. On 24 September, as its main 
event  to  celebrate  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
Convention,  the  Committee  hosted  a  direct  online 
dialogue with 28 children from 14 countries around the 
world.  The  right  of  children  to  participate  is  broader 
than their right to be heard in matters affecting them. I 
am speaking about the right of all children to be active 
agents in the lives of communities at every level, whether 
in the family, in schools or in the broader community. 
Their views may differ at times from those of adults, 
simply  because  each  generation  experiences  a  world 
different from that of those who preceded it. Children 
will therefore, inevitably voice unique perspectives. We 
cannot afford to ignore their voices.
From  infancy,  children  learn  to  communicate 
by  being  communicated  with,  and  they  will  learn  to 
interact with others based on how they are interacted 
with. Making children feel that their ideas are immature 
or unrealistic leaves them feeling unwelcome and more 
likely to disengage. Children are valuable members of 
our  societies  as  children  and  must  be  engaged  with, 
according to their evolving capacities, throughout their 
childhood  and  adolescence,  if  they  are  to  contribute 
positively  to  their  communities  later  when  they  are 
adults.
8/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
When  children  take  part  in  discussions  about 
programmes and policies relevant to children’s rights, 
and  their  ideas  are  listened  to  and  developed,  those 
programmes and policies are more likely to address the 
issues at hand. For example, at a past children’s meeting, 
the  Committee  heard  that  the  State  under  review  had 
implemented  a  transportation  service  to  ensure  that 
children with a disability could get to school. However, 
the  buses  provided  were  bright  yellow,  which  was  in 
stark contrast to all the other school buses. They came to 
be known as the “banana buses”. The children explained 
to the Committee that, while the transportation service 
was an excellent initiative, it would have been better if 
all the buses were the same colour. While the intention 
had been to ensure inclusion, the seemingly small issue 
of  choosing  a  different  colour  for  those  buses  had  in 
fact reinforced the misconception that children with a 
disability are somehow different.
I reiterate that children have a unique perspective 
that must be sought out and cannot be ignored. Twenty-
five years after the adoption of the Convention on the 
Rights  of  the  Child,  we  still  talk  about  “allowing” 
children  to  participate.  However,  just  as  we  are 
shocked  when  an  adult  is  silenced  for  expressing  his 
or her views, we need to be concerned when children 
are silenced or kept out. They see the challenges that 
their communities face, and they are perfectly able to 
suggest ideas, ideas that can, with the support of adults, 
be developed into effective solutions.
During 
the  online  discussion  sessions 
that 
the  Committee  hosted  on  24  September,  the  child 
participants,  aged  between  11  and  17  years  old, 
demonstrated  that  when  children  receive  appropriate 
information  and  are  supported  in  forming  their  ideas 
and  opinions,  they  can  participate  meaningfully.  The 
interaction  with  members  of  the  Committee  showed 
that when adults and children communicate in a spirit of 
mutual respect, they can produce innovative solutions 
to the challenges that face our societies. The Committee 
was  thrilled  to  see  and  hear  the  children  speaking 
openly  about  the  challenges  that  their  communities 
face  and,  most  importantly,  how  they  thought  those 
challenges could be addressed.
that agreed on and the goals that we set out to achieve 
25  years  ago.  In  the  design  and  implementation  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  not  only  must  the 
voices  of  children  be  heard,  but  their  views  and  their 
rights must be reflected in the agenda. Children’s real 
participation  will  be  possible  only  if  information  is 
made  available,  if  barriers  are  dismantled  and  if  we 
commit ourselves to adapting our ways of working so 
as to ensure accessibility. We need to create a culture of 
participation across all age brackets and ensure that our 
work  here  matches  the  human  rights  situation  on  the 
ground worldwide, both now and in the future.
Let  me  end  with  a  quote  from  Nelson  Mandela: 
“There can be no keener revelation of a society’s soul 
than the way in which it treats its children”.
The President: I now give the floor to the Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution 
and child pornography.
Ms.  De  Boer-Buquicchio  (Special  Rapporteur 
on  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution  and  child 
pornography):  Twenty-five  years  ago, 
the  United 
Nations  offered  a  wonderful  gift  to  children  around 
the  world —  a  treaty  that  recognized  them  as  rights-
holders.  The  message  was  loud  and  clear  —  children 
are  not  mini-human  beings  with  mini-human  rights. 
One hundred and ninety-four countries followed suit by 
ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with 
a promise to respect, protect and empower children.
Since  then,  many  measures  have  contributed  to 
keeping  that  important  promise  alive.  They  include 
the  adoption  of  new  laws,  policies  and  action  plans, 
the provision of assistance and protection services, the 
establishment  of  child-participation  mechanisms,  the 
organization  of  awareness-raising  campaigns  and  the 
development of corporate social responsibility. Despite 
all  those  efforts,  children,  25  years  later,  have  many 
reasons to feel impatient and even angry. In 2014, there 
are still people who sell and buy children, who exploit 
them and regard them as commodities. That is a blatant 
denial  of  the  human  dignity  of  the  child.  Allowing 
that  to  happen  is  a  betrayal  of  children  and  seriously 
compromises our chances to develop as a society.
In  conclusion,  it  seems  clear  to  me  that  as  we  go 
forward,  we  must  ensure  that  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights of the Child keeps pace with the young people 
for whom it was designed. It must evolve with them and 
with  the  generations  to  come  in  order  to  create  both 
a  present  and  a  future  that  honour  the  standards  we 
Several  forms  of  the  sale  and  sexual  exploitation 
of  children  have  worsened  considerably  since  1989. 
The  development  of  information  and  communications 
technology  has  made  it  much  easier  for  criminals  to 
produce, share and store child-abuse material with full 
impunity.  Estimates  indicate  that  the  amount  of  child 
14-64058
9/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
abuse material online runs into the millions of pages, 
and the number of individual children depicted is most 
likely to be in the tens of thousands. The age of victims 
has  tended  to  decrease,  and  the  representations  are 
becoming more graphic and violent.
Child  prostitution  is  still  a  prominent  problem  in 
many  countries.  The  root  causes  of  child  prostitution 
have multiplied. They include early sexualization, the 
dissemination  of  sexualized  images  of  children  and 
violence,  and  peer  pressure.  The  so-called  child  sex 
tourism, a critical aspect of child prostitution, has also 
increased, driven by the overall growth of tourism, the 
virtual  non-existence  of  prevention  measures  and  the 
inadequate  criminalization  of  offences.  Children  are 
also being sold and forced into marriage.
Although  it  has  become  less  and  less  easy  to 
illegally  adopt  a  child,  the  demand  for  adoption  has 
continued  to  increase.  That  creates  the  conditions  for 
a  lucrative  business  that  results  in  abuse,  corruption 
and excessive fees, amounting to the sale of children. 
The  sale  of  organs  is  another  abject  form  of  business 
that  finds  its  victims  among  the  most  deprived  and 
vulnerable of children.
Today, more children are at risk of sale and sexual 
exploitation than was previously the case. On the one 
hand,  children  are  increasingly  vulnerable  to  sexual 
exploitation,  as  a  result  of  poverty,  the  humanitarian 
crisis, underdevelopment, inequality, social norms and 
broken,  dysfunctional  families.  On  the  other  hand, 
there is an increase in the demand for sex with children 
that is coupled with the transnational dimension of the 
phenomenon.
Hence, coming back to the question, is the world a 
better place for children? I would say that it depends. 
For the most vulnerable children, the truth is that the 
world  continues  to  be  a  labyrinth  filled  with  traps 
and  monsters,  with  few  places  to  hide  and  nobody  to 
turn  to  for  help.  In  the  particular  case  of  the  sale  of 
children, child pornography and child prostitution, the 
significant  efforts  made  through  legislation,  policies, 
campaigns  and  international  cooperation  have  not 
succeeded in putting an end to those crimes. However, 
I have no doubt that, if respected and implemented, the 
principles  and  rights  enshrined  in  the  Convention  on 
the  Rights  of  the  Child  would  completely  change  the 
trend, benefiting the children who were left behind and 
solving the pending problems. For that to happen, we 
need political will, public awareness and concerted and 
continuous efforts.
The  current  negotiations  around  the  post-2015 
development agenda offer an extraordinary opportunity 
to make a real breakthrough in the implementation of 
the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Throughout 
the  process  of  implementing  a  human  rights-based 
approach  to  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  we 
have  to  involve  and  empower  children,  as  the  best 
possible  experts  when  it  comes  to  determining  their 
needs  and  rights.  Information  and  communication 
technologies 
(ICTs)  offer  manifold  opportunities 
and  tools  for  ensuring  children’s  participation  and 
empowerment  in  the  design  and  implementation  of 
prevention  and  protection  strategies.  Children  are 
eager  to  use  ICTs,  and  we  should  encourage  them  to 
exploit  their  creativity,  their  capacity  to  innovate  and 
their willingness to communicate, turning ICTs into a 
powerful  tool  for  the  defence  of  children’s  rights  and 
the expression of children’s agency.
Next year, the Optional Protocol to the Convention 
on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child 
Prostitution and Child Pornography will celebrate the 
fifteenth anniversary of its adoption, a good occasion to 
go beyond rhetoric and take stock of the progress made 
since  2000,  reflect  on  ways  to  bridge  implementation 
gaps  and  make  a  strong  call  in  order  to  gather  the 
necessary  effective  support  for  making  a  reality  of 
the  prevention  and  eradication  of  the  sale  and  sexual 
exploitation of children.
Despite the dark picture I have just painted, I still 
believe  that  we  have  at  least  2.2  billion  reasons  to 
celebrate —  as  many  reasons  as  there  are  children  in 
the world. And we also have at least 5 billion additional 
people who can be mobilized to make the world a better 
place. When we blow out the 15 candles today, instead 
of  making  a  wish,  I  would  like  to  invite  everyone 
here to do something else. I would like them to take a 
decision on what they are going to do next to make the 
world a better place for children. And to remind them of 
their decision, I would like to close with a quote from a 
beautiful poem by Robert Frost.
“The woods are lovely, dark and deep,
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep,
And miles to go before I sleep.”
The  President:  I  should  now  like  to  consult 
Members  with  a  view  to  giving  the  floor  to  a  child 
representative.  If  there  is  no  objection,  and  without 
setting a precedent, may I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to invite a child representative, 
10/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
Ms. Teyise Dlamini of Swaziland, to deliver a statement 
at this meeting?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
just taken, I now give the floor to child representative 
Ms. Teyise Dlamini of Swaziland.
Ms.  Dlamini  (Swaziland):  It  is  an  honour  to  be 
here  in  the  Assembly  to  celebrate  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child.  And  it  is  indeed  humbling  to  be  the  voice  not 
only of the kids of Swaziland, Africa and the world, but 
also the voice of every young girl, everywhere. I feel 
very proud and grateful for being invited.
People  may  be  wondering  how  a  girl  from 
Mahamba, a small village in Swaziland, gets to grace 
such  an  important  event  as  this.  Two  words  —  my 
mother. My mother is a single parent, and ever since I 
was three, she has been both mother and father to my 
brother and me. That has been a tough job, but she was 
determined  that  we  would  have  a  better  life  than  she 
did, because she gave birth at an early age and had to 
sacrifice a lot of fun things. Instead, she built her career 
so  that  she  could  provide  us  with  a  comfortable  life. 
At home, she taught both of us the importance of self-
respect, hard work, equal opportunity and studying at 
school.  She  encouraged  me  to  be  courageous  and  to 
speak  up  for  what  is  right  and  what  is  wrong.  Seeing 
my  mother  struggle  to  give  us  everything  we  need  is 
what  motivates  me  to  work  hard  every  day.  Today,  I 
am strong, ambitious and confident because of the way 
my mother raised me. And I will achieve my dream of 
becoming a successful leader in society and changing 
the  lives  of  many  children,  especially  young  girls, 
everywhere.
Not all children have received that upbringing. Not 
all girls will be able to realize their rights as I have been 
able to. Not all girls even know what their rights are. 
That is why I wish that everybody could have a mother 
like mine. So, every week, I host a youth-empowerment 
radio  programme  that  discusses  issues  that  affect  all 
children and young people everywhere — issues such as 
living with HIV, child marriage and violence between 
teachers and pupils. I try to tell my listeners that they 
have the right not to be hit in their schools, not to be 
sexually assaulted and not to have to work when they 
should be studying.
Today, I have heard many leaders here speak about 
the progress that has been made in the past 25 years. I 
am one of those children. I got my vaccinations. I go to 
school and my school has toilets — but no soap. I have 
clean water to drink, and there is a clinic close by. I can 
speak out and be heard about issues that affect me, even 
in the General Assembly. That is my story, but it is not 
the  story  of  all  children.  Every  day,  children’s  rights 
in  countries  all  over  the  world  are  violated  at  home, 
at  school  and  in  their  social  circles,  and  that  applies 
especially to children who live in war-torn societies.
One  example  is  the  right  to  education.  In  many 
countries, it is still considered more important to send 
sons to school, and a waste of time and family resources 
to  send  female  children.  Does  that  not  seem  absurd? 
Especially  when  we  know  that  educated  girls  are 
more likely to delay their first sexual encounter, delay 
marriage and earn a higher salary later in life. Or take 
the  right  of  children  with  disabilities  to  go  to  school. 
There is a girl I know in the village of Ngwenya, near 
where I live, who is deaf and blind. But the local school 
has  no  facilities  for  her,  so  she  cannot  enrol.  That  is 
the story for many children with disabilities around the 
world. We need facilities in public schools everywhere, 
so that all children can learn together and play together, 
as we will all live together later in life. Only then will 
we see every child’s talents unleashed.
Or think about the right to protection from violence. 
Every day in the media, we hear about child or sexual 
violence. But in too many countries, people blame such 
things on culture and social practices, so that often laws 
are  not  passed  protecting  children  from  such  threats. 
Too often, that violence affects girls. Donors invest a 
lot in empowering the girl child against such violence, 
and that is good and important. But it is only one side of 
the problem. Boys still grow up violent because they are 
not taught how to respect women. They are not taught 
how to respect us girls. Please, we need programmes to 
teach boys how to behave and how to respect us girls.
My message to all those here today is that they have 
done  well  for  some  children,  but  they  must  do  better 
for all children — all of us. Millions are still crying for 
help, even 25 years after the adoption of the Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.  As  members  look  to  the 
next 25 years and plan our post-2015 world, they have 
in their hands the opportunity to enable us children to 
realize our dreams in a peaceful and prosperous world. 
The foundation of that world is safe, healthy, educated 
children  —  and  empowered  girls,  registered  at  birth, 
enrolled in school, inspired by mentors and thriving in 
leadership  roles.  I  hope  that  everyone  here  will  start 
14-64058
11/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
this new era for children and youth by listening to us, 
not  just  to  older  people’s  versions  of  what  they  think 
we  want.  Decisions  that  affect  us  children  and  young 
people  must  start  with  discussions  with  children  and 
young people.
In  that  vein,  I  ask  representatives  to  please  listen 
carefully, because I am about to teach everyone some 
Siswati, the language of my country. I want those who 
talk  with  their  Governments  about  laws,  policies  and 
programmes for children and young people to remember 
this, especially when someone says “Ah, but we cannot 
afford that”, then one could reply that one was taught 
“Bon haila, bon leiba, loya long bebe”. I ask everyone 
to say it along with me; I want it to sink into the heads 
of  everyone  present  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  It  means 
“Children  are  the  future”.  It  is  my  way  of  asking  the 
Assembly, in the spirit of the Convention on the Rights 
of the Child and on behalf of all children in Swaziland, 
Africa and the world, to please protect us and invest in 
us today, tomorrow and always.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of Mauritania, who will speak on behalf of the Group of 
African States.
Mr. Jiddou (Mauritania): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Group of African States on the occasion 
of the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child.
As we gather today to celebrate this anniversary, it 
is an opportunity to give an overview of the progress 
made  in  the  implementation  of  commitments  made 
with  regard  to  the  protection  and  promotion  of  the 
rights  of  the  child.  The  African  Group  believes  that 
remarkable  progress  has  been  made  for  children  in 
African  countries  over  the  past  decade,  as  illustrated 
by the marked decline in mortality for children under 
five years of age, improved access to clean water and 
sanitation, and increased primary-school enrolment in 
all regions of the continent.
However, profound challenges remain. The continent 
still  has  the  highest  under-five  mortality  rates  in  the 
world, with half of the world’s annual 6.6 million deaths 
in that age group being in Africa. Similarly, over half of 
the world’s out-of-school children live in Africa. One in 
three children under 5 years of age in Africa is stunted, 
and  an  estimated  3.1  million  children  under  15  years 
old are living with HIV. As Member States continue to 
shape the post-2015 development agenda, it is critical 
for  Africa’s  children  to  remain  a  priority  and  benefit 
from increased attention and investments.
To  address  child  protection  in  a  sustainable 
manner,  the  causes  and  symptoms  of  child  abuse, 
neglect,  exploitation  and  violence  against  children 
should  be  addressed.  Research  shows  that  there  is  a 
strong  correlation  between  poverty  and  child  abuse 
and  exploitation.  While  we  are  commemorating  and 
recognizing  the  important  changes  that  have  taken 
place in the realization of children’s rights, we applaud 
the progress made but feel that a lot remains to be done 
to scale up progress in many African countries. African 
States  continue  to  face  the  challenges  of  poverty, 
political  instability,  economic  and  financial  crises, 
climate change and inadequate funding, which make it 
difficult to provide the infrastructure services needed 
to cater to the needs of children, particularly children 
with disabilities.
In  armed-conflict  situations,  African  children 
remain vulnerable as refugees or displaced persons. They 
witness  acts  of  violence,  suffer  from  being  orphaned 
and lose their education opportunities, even their lives, 
not  to  speak  of  their  chance  to  enjoy  their  livelihood 
and  be  part  of  a  peaceful  community.  In  that  regard, 
we welcome the “Children, Not Soldiers” campaign of 
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for 
Children  and  Armed  Conflicts,  launched  jointly  with 
UNICEF in March, which seeks to end and prevent the 
recruitment and use of children by Government armed 
forces by 2016. The African Group would like to seize 
this opportunity to commend UNICEF for its work and 
pledges  to  remain  engaged  to  help  that  organization 
carry out its mandate. UNICEF has a proven track record 
of leading the way in the promotion and protection of 
the rights of the child, and Africa believes that UNICEF 
will live up to its reputation in that regard in the coming 
years. The African Group recognizes that resources are 
key to achieving excellence in the delivery of results for 
children. UNICEF will never have enough resources to 
implement comprehensive equity strategies around the 
world.
We also welcome the partnership agreement signed 
between the Office of the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General and the African Union in September 
2013 and invite her to continue her work on strengthening 
the child-protection system. We remain concerned about 
the continued use of schools and hospitals as military 
targets,  including  its  grave  consequences,  which  are 
to  deprive  children  of  their  basic  rights  to  education 
and  health.  The  Group  of  African  States  agrees  that 
violence  against  children  hampers  the  full  enjoyment 
of  their  rights  and  their  well-being.  The  international 
12/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
community  should  continue  to  coordinate  its  efforts, 
including through the allocation of appropriate funds, 
to ensure child protection, child welfare and access to 
health and education, and to end all forms of violence 
against children.
The  well-being  of  Africa’s  children  depends 
entirely  on  the  well-being  of  their  families  and 
communities.  The  African  Group  therefore  believes 
that interventions directed towards children must also 
take  a  family-centred  approach  that  gives  appropriate 
attention  to  their  families.  Young  people  undergo  a 
variety  of  new  experiences.  They  need  appropriate 
guidance that will ultimately contribute meaningfully 
to  their  personal  development  as  well  as  to  that  of 
their  societies.  The  African  States  are  convinced  that 
children’s rights, welfare and protection are at the core 
of  human  social  development.  As  such,  the  African 
States  have  committed  themselves  individually  and 
collectively to take the necessary steps and measures to 
ensure the protection, survival and development of the 
child in conformity with the Convention on the Rights 
of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and 
Welfare of the Child.
At 
level, 
the 
The  African  Heads  of  States  and  Government 
adopted an African Common Position on the rights of 
the child in 2001 in Cairo. That was further reviewed in 
2007. The review gave an opportunity for the African 
States to take stock of the achievements and remaining 
challenges. It also determined that much more needed 
to be done — hence the call for accelerated action to 
implement  the  Plan  of  Action  towards  an  Africa  Fit 
for  Children  (2008-2012)  during  the  African  Union 
Summit in January 2008.
the  continental 
issue  of  child 
marriage is a common concern that is being addressed 
individually  and  collectively.  African  States  have 
launched a campaign to end child marriage in Africa. 
The  Group  of  African  States  request  international 
support for the African Union Goodwill Ambassador to 
End Child Marriage, Ms. Nyaradzayi Gumbonzvanda. 
She  has  been  tasked  with  promoting  advocacy  and 
raising awareness on the effects of child marriage. The 
Group  of  African  States  believes  that  child  marriage 
perpetuates  problems  relating 
lack  of 
education,  gender-based  violence,  abuse,  exploitation, 
inadequate  access  to  nutrition  and  services,  and  the 
lack of participation in economic opportunities.
to  health, 
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  saying  that,  as  we 
define the implementation framework of the post-2015 
development  agenda  and  the  African  Union  Vision 
2063,  the  African  child  remains  vulnerable  owing, 
among other issues, to conflicts, inequalities in income 
and  health,  unemployment,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic, 
Ebola, poverty and hunger, illiteracy and poor-quality 
education, the vagaries of the economic and financial 
crises,  climate  change,  restricted  access  to  health 
services and information, as well as exposure to various 
forms  of  discrimination.  It  is  therefore  important  to 
give due consideration to the protection and well-being 
of children in the sustainable development framework. 
That will help ensure that children, who are our future, 
are  guaranteed  the  needed  peace  and  security,  social 
investment  and  appropriate  child  protection  policies 
crucial to the development of their full capabilities.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Pakistan, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan): I have the distinct 
honour  to  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States,  all  of 
which  have  ratified  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child.  We  thank  you,  Sir,  for  convening  today’s 
meeting to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary 
of the Convention. We also thank UNICEF Executive 
Director  Anthony  Lake  and  other  speakers  for  their 
thoughtful statements this morning.
On this occasion, we congratulate Malala Yousafzai 
and  Kailash  Satyarthi  for  jointly  winning  the  2014 
Nobel  Peace  Prize  for  their  outstanding  contribution 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  children’s  rights. 
At  age  17,  the  courageous  and  committed  Malala  has 
become the youngest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize 
and a global icon for the right to education. Kailash is 
the architect of the single largest civil-society network 
against  the  exploitation  of  children  and  has  devoted 
his  entire  life  to  that  cause.  We  salute  both  of  them 
and support the sublime causes that they espouse and 
advocate.
Today is a historic day. As we celebrate the twenty-
fifth  anniversary  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child,  we  have  a  good  opportunity  to  review  the 
progress made so far and identify the challenges that lie 
ahead. The twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention 
coincides  with  the  culmination  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and an intense process to craft the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  based  on  sustainable 
development goals. The rights of the child sit at the very 
centre of all those processes.
14-64058
13/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
Children are the most precious asset of humankind 
and  the  builders  of  its  future.  Investment  in  children 
is  not  just  smart  economics,  but  a  compelling  moral 
obligation  and  a  global  common  good.  The  landmark 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  has  brought 
us  far  towards  making  the  world  safe  and  secure  for 
children, without discrimination. The Convention and 
its two Protocols have stimulated significant progress 
in  the  normative  structure  and  practical  outcomes 
aimed at improving the quality of the lives of children 
all around the world.
Let us first look at the successes. In the past twenty-
five years, under-five mortality has been halved. New 
HIV infections among children have declined, and the 
number of out-of-school children has been reduced by 
half. There has been a decrease in child labour among 
boys  and  girls.  Violence  against  children  and  other 
harmful  practices  against  them  have  gained  greater 
awareness  within  Governments  and  societies.  The 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  has  inspired 
Member States to enact new laws and improve existing 
mechanisms  to  protect  the  rights  and  interests  of 
children.
Now let us look at the glass as only half full. We 
have a long way to go in order to fully protect children’s 
rights. As we speak, approximately 57 million children 
are not enrolled in primary schools, and 69 million are 
not  attending  secondary  schools.  Nearly  700  million 
children  face  extreme  poverty.  Some  168  million 
children  are  engaged  in  child  labour.  Undernutrition 
remains a major challenge, causing stunting, disease and 
the death of children living in the developing countries. 
Children constitute more than half of the global refugee 
population. Millions are caught in conflicts, and many 
fall victim to sexual abuse.
The  States  of  the  Asia-Pacific  Group  underscore 
the  need  for  a  determined  push  and  concerted  efforts 
to  redress  those  remaining  deficits  and  overcome 
challenges in the next 15 years. We should start early 
and  accelerate  our  speed  to  achieve  our  objectives. 
Our  priorities  should  be  the  elimination  of  poverty, 
the promotion of education and health and the holistic 
development of children.
The Group of Asia-Pacific States stresses the need 
to  include  sufficient,  tangible  and  credible  means  of 
implementation  for  the  effective  and  full  realization 
of  all  child-related  goals  and  targets.  In  that  regard, 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development, to be held in Addis Ababa in July 2015, 
should pay special attention to resources for children. 
All  sustainable  development  goals,  particularly  those 
linked to the rights of children, should be given special 
attention in terms of the provision of adequate financial 
resources.
Let me reiterate the firm and abiding commitment 
of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States  to  the  principles 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  and 
to  the  full  realization  of  the  rights  of  the  child.  The 
Group  will  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Children’s Fund and the United Nations as a whole to 
maintain a sharp focus on the rights of the child in the 
emerging  post-2015  development  agenda  and  beyond.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child promises full 
and healthy growth and development for all children all 
over the world. Let us work to fulfil that promise, and 
let us celebrate the fact that the Convention builds our 
resilience to pursue that goal.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  It  is  a  particular  honour 
for  my  delegation  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the 
Eastern  European  States  to  celebrate  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights of the Child, which constitutes the standard in 
the promotion and protection of the rights of children. 
This high-level meeting gives us an opportunity to take 
stock  of  the  achievements  in  ensuring  the  protection 
and  well-being  of  children,  to  reflect  on  remaining 
implementation  gaps  and  to  redouble  our  efforts  to 
undertake  additional  measures  to  ensure  children’s 
rights.
Twenty-five  years  ago,  the  Convention  was  the 
first international treaty that recognized the child as a 
subject with rights and became the most widely ratified 
human  rights  treaty  in  history,  obliging  States  to 
assume  responsibility  for  ensuring  the  full  protection 
of  the  rights  of  children.  The  Convention  is  a  major 
milestone in ensuring children’s right to life, survival 
and  development,  protection  and  empowerment. 
The  Convention,  with  its  holistic  approach  to  child 
development,  contributed  greatly 
the 
conditions for children around the globe to grow in an 
environment with access to health, nutrition, safety and 
security. The implementation of the Convention and its 
Optional  Protocols  will  mark  another  significant  step 
in advancing the child-protection agenda.
to  creating 
14/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
We  have  Ms.  Anna  Komorowska, 
the  First 
Lady  of  Poland,  present  here  today  to  celebrate  this 
commemorative date with us. I would like to welcome 
her along with the other guests. Her presence proves the 
great importance that Poland and our Group attach to 
the promotion and protection of the rights of children.
Since the adoption of the Convention, States have 
worked  intensely  to  improve  domestic  legislation, 
standards and policies to better protect children. As a 
result,  we  have  much  to  celebrate.  As  outlined  in  the 
report of the Secretary-General entitled “Status of the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child”  (A/69/260), 
significant  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  past 
quarter-century in all dimensions of the child-protection 
agenda.  Nevertheless,  the  remaining  implementation 
gaps  and  pressing  global  challenges  demand  stronger 
commitment  to  the  cause  of  the  protection  and 
empowerment of children.
Child mortality, the subject of one of the Millennium 
Development Goals, remains the most serious challenge 
of  our  time.  In  recent  years,  the  global  under-five 
mortality  rate  has  been  almost  halved,  and  new  HIV 
infections among children under 15 years of age have 
declined by 35 per cent, but we need to continue striving 
to ensure higher standards of health care for children so 
as to provide them with timely access to the appropriate 
health-care and rehabilitation services.
Violence against children remains a major challenge. 
Millions  of  children  continue  to  suffer  various  forms 
of  violence,  exploitation,  abuse  and  neglect.  We  need 
to take more effective steps to address the root causes 
of  that  problem.  We  are  particularly  concerned  for 
children  affected  by  armed  conflicts,  who  bear  the 
burden of war and its atrocities.
Children with disabilities are particularly vulnerable 
to poverty, marginalization and exclusion. They often 
lack access to protection and assistance, and are more 
likely to be victims of violence.
Education  is  critical  for  the  development  and 
empowerment of children. Much has been achieved in 
that respect, but the widespread inequities affecting the 
poorest  and  most  vulnerable  children  remain  a  huge 
barrier  for  the  realization  of  the  full  potential  of  all 
children.
In that regard, we take the opportunity to commend 
UNICEF’s leadership in the protection of children and 
the  promotion  of  children’s  rights.  Over  the  years, 
UNICEF  has  made  significant  progress  in  many 
areas  relating  to  child  protection  and  has  contributed 
immensely to improving children’s lives and advancing 
the  child  agenda  around  the  world.  We  reiterate  our 
commitment to continue to cooperate with UNICEF for 
renewed global action in the best interests of children.
Today,  on  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Convention, we would like to reiterate 
our  strong  commitment  to  the  advancement  of  the 
rights  of  children.  We  have  to  aim  for  an  ambitious, 
rights-based  post-2015  development  agenda,  which  is 
fundamental  for  ensuring  that  children  feel  safe  and 
have  opportunities  to  realize  their  rights.  We  need 
to  implement  our  existing  commitments  and  seek 
innovative  ways  to  advance  the  rights  of  the  most 
marginalized. Let us strive to live up to the expectations 
of those who will be shaping our future tomorrow.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Guatemala, who will speak on behalf 
of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
Mr. Carrera Castro (Guatemala): At the outset, I 
would like to say a few words of congratulation to the 
young  lady  from  Swaziland,  Ms.  Teyise  Dlamini,  on 
her very inspiring words to this meeting. I would also 
like to congratulate UNICEF for the beautiful event we 
had this morning. As a former UNICEF staff member, 
I take a lot of pride in what UNICEF continues to do. 
There are many friends present today who have worked 
together with me in that regard.
(spoke in Spanish)
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Group 
of Latin American and Caribbean States. The countries 
of our regional Group remain strongly committed to the 
promotion and protection of the rights of children, and 
we  welcome  the  commemoration  of  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights of the Child as an occasion for us to celebrate 
the  accomplishments,  reflect  on  implementation  gaps 
and  undertake  additional  measures  to  ensure  that  the 
rights of children are fully realized.
As States parties to the Convention, we fully support 
all mechanisms that contribute to its implementation, in 
particular the Committee on the Rights of the Child. We 
reaffirm that States have the primary responsibility to 
promote and protect all human rights and fundamental 
freedoms, including the rights of children. We firmly 
believe  that  the  full  enjoyment  of  those  rights  and 
14-64058
15/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
fundamental  freedoms  can  be  realized,  free  from 
discrimination of any kind, through the implementation 
of appropriate policies, even with limited resources. It 
is important in that regard for the actions and policies 
pursued by those involved in issues related to children 
to  take  into  account  the  basic  principle  of  preserving 
the best interests of the child and a gender perspective, 
in the light of the particular situation of our girls.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
on  the  steps  taken  to  achieve  a  world  fit  for  children 
(A/69/258). As the report says, there is much to celebrate 
on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention, from 
declining  infant  mortality  to  rising  school  enrolment. 
However,  although  the  international  community  has 
achieved significant progress in the past years, global 
averages, as UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake 
pointed  out,  often  mask  growing  inequalities  in  key 
indicators,  and  millions  of  children  are  also  affected 
by  sociopolitical  crises,  armed  conflicts  and  natural 
disasters. We are also concerned by the global figures 
reporting that 47 per cent of people living in extreme 
poverty are 18 years old or younger.
We  also  express  our  appreciation  for  the  report 
on  the  status  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child  (A/69/260).  The  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States believes that the signature, ratification 
and effective implementation of the Convention and its 
Optional  Protocols  will  significantly  help  to  ensure 
that  all  children  fully  enjoy  their  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  We  therefore  urge  States  that 
have not yet done so to become parties to the Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  the  Optional  Protocols 
thereto  on  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution 
and  child  pornography,  and  on  the  involvement  of 
children in armed conflict as a matter of priority and to 
implement them fully.
The  Group  takes  note  with  appreciation  of  the 
entry  into  force  on  14  April  of  the  Optional  Protocol 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  a 
communications procedure for reporting individual or 
mass violations of children’s rights. We urge States to 
consider signing, ratifying and implementing it.
Although  substantial  progress  benefiting  children 
has  been  made  in  the  region,  it  remains  crucial  that 
we work to assist those living in extreme poverty and 
to  reduce  persistent  disparities  in  health,  education 
and  other  key  child  well-being  indicators,  which  are 
closely interlinked developmental challenges. We must 
ensure that the post-2015 development agenda includes 
the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  children  around  the 
world — children with disabilities, indigenous children, 
children of African descent and migrant children.
The leadership of our region in advancing the agenda 
of the rights of children is well recognized. However, as 
a  region  comprising  mostly  middle-income  countries, 
we still have significant challenges and vulnerabilities 
to fully protect their rights. Vulnerabilities result from 
poverty and inequality, but also from cultural and social 
factors such as discrimination and gender inequalities. 
The  progress  achieved  is  also  threatened  by  several 
risks, such as national or global crises in the economic or 
political arena, natural disasters, and multidimensional 
challenges such as violence and organized crime, which 
affect primarily the most vulnerable groups within our 
population.
We therefore attach great importance to international 
cooperation,  including  the  efforts  carried  out  by  the 
United  Nations  system  and  its  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes,  particularly  UNICEF,  which  serve  to 
promote the development of all countries and provide 
support  to  the  design,  implementation  and  evaluation 
of national public policies promoting the well-being of 
children and adolescents.
We agree that the participation of communities and 
children, especially those who are marginalized and at 
risk, is vitally important in national and local planning, 
in  national  and  municipal  budgeting,  and  in  the 
monitoring of risk assessment, as well as in prevention, 
emergency preparedness, response and recovery. All of 
those factors together strengthen resilience, especially 
at the local level, as indicated in the Secretary-General’s 
report.
The  important  role  of  the  media  must  also  be 
recognized  as  a  useful  tool  for  raising  awareness 
within society regarding the situation of children and 
the  challenges  they  face.  We  reaffirm  the  significant 
role of the media in initiatives to promote and protect 
children’s  rights,  the  contribution  of  the  media  to 
children’s  education  and  the  need  to  pay  attention  to 
the media’s influence, at times negative, on children.
We must remain focused on ensuring that children’s 
rights and well-being are major priorities in the post-
2015  development  agenda,  which  require  eradicating 
extreme  poverty,  reducing  inequalities,  eliminating 
all  forms  of  violence  against  children  and  ensuring 
universal  access  to  justice,  in  particular  for  children, 
when  necessary.  Such  efforts  could  provide  an 
16/18 
14-64058
20/11/2014 
A/69/PV.56
appropriate platform to promote and uphold the human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  today’s  children, 
who are, lest we forget, the global leaders of tomorrow.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Germany, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and Other States.
Mr. Thoms (Germany): I have the great honour to 
take the floor on behalf of the States members of the 
Group of Western European and other States.
We wholeheartedly welcome the initiative to hold 
this  commemorative  event,  celebrating  25  years  of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child.  As  we  have  repeatedly  heard  this  morning, 
it  is  the  world’s  most  ratified  human  rights  treaty 
to  date  —  an  achievement  we  can  be  proud  of.  This 
anniversary  provides  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  with  the  opportunity  to  collectively  reflect 
not only on the Convention itself, but on the concrete 
situation  of  children  the  world  over,  because  there  is 
little  use  celebrating  the  Convention’s  anniversary 
here today if we make no link to how it has improved 
the  futures  of  those  whom  it  is  meant  to  benefit.  In 
other  words,  even  on  the  Convention’s  twenty-fifth 
anniversary,  we  must  continue  to  focus  on  effective 
implementation — and I dare say that implementation 
is bound to remain a work in progress for all of us.
Yet, we have ample reason to be satisfied with what 
we have achieved in the past 25 years. States have come 
together to protect the world’s most valuable asset — our 
children.  We  should  therefore  celebrate  the  fact  that 
the  Convention  is  now  almost  universally  ratified.  In 
addition, the international community has achieved the 
entry  into  force  of  three  additional  Protocols,  which 
make the protection of children and their rights more 
specific, the last of which entered into force in April.
Moreover, we welcome the work of the Committee 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.  For  the  past  25  years,  its 
experts  have  kept  the  spirit  of  the  Convention  alive 
and  diligently  advised  States  on  how  to  improve 
implementation  and  adherence.  We  would  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Committee 
on  its  efforts  and  wish  it  continued  success  in  its 
considerations.
In  the  same  vein,  we  would  like  to  recognize  the 
mandate-holders  involved  in  protecting  the  rights  of 
children.  It  is  their  personal  effort  that  contributes 
to  the  strength  of  the  Convention.  We  applaud  their 
engagement  and  their  unfailing  dedication  to  the 
principles  enshrined  within  it.  We  must  also  extend 
our  sincere  appreciation  to  UNICEF,  its  Executive 
Director and his staff, many of whom work and live in 
difficult  conditions.  We  would  also  like  to  remember 
those members of UNICEF staff who have been injured 
or killed while championing children’s rights over the 
past 25 years. It is also their dedication to children that 
we celebrate here today. This appreciation extends, of 
course, to all other United Nations agencies, funds and 
programmes.  When  it  comes  to  children’s  rights,  the 
United Nations has no excuse but to deliver as one.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child offers a 
timeless vision for our world. It sets out a world where all 
children can live to develop their potential. It envisages 
a  childhood  free  from  violence  and  discrimination. 
It  emphasizes  an  environment  where  children  are 
encouraged to participate in decisions that affect their 
lives. Some of that has been implemented. According 
to  UNICEF,  far  fewer  children  die  before  their  fifth 
birthday than did 25 years ago, more children are able 
to realize their right to an education and the proportion 
of people — and children — living in extreme poverty 
has  decreased.  In  addition,  in  every  region  of  the 
world, the Convention has inspired changes in laws and 
regulations to better protect children, altered the way 
international organizations see their work for children 
and transformed the way in which children are able to 
take an active role and participate in their communities 
and societies.
Yet,  we  have  to  acknowledge  that  after  25  years 
of  the  Convention,  many  challenges  remain.  About 
3,500 children will have died by the end of this meeting 
tonight, mostly from entirely preventable causes. Every 
10 minutes, an adolescent girl is violently killed. Eleven 
per cent of girls worldwide are married before they turn 
15. Hazardous child labour remains prolific, and many 
children do not, therefore, receive a formal education. 
There  are  nearly  230  million  children  under  age  of  5 
worldwide  whose  births  have  never  been  officially 
recorded. I could go on like this, but allow me to leave 
it there.
A  great  deal  more  needs  to  be  done  to  fulfil  the 
vision that the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
sets  out  for  us.  It  is  our  wish  that  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary will provide new impetus for more action. 
And  we  believe  that  the  United  Nations,  both  as  an 
organization  and  as  a  platform,  has  much  to  offer  in 
that regard.
14-64058
17/18
A/69/PV.56 
20/11/2014
In  the  context  of  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  Convention,  it  is  especially  fitting  that  the  Nobel 
Peace Prize this year will be awarded to two defenders 
of  children’s  rights,  one  of  them  herself  still  a  child. 
The  award  underlines  the  important  contribution  of 
civil society and human rights defenders. Although the 
primary  responsibility  to  protect,  promote  and  fulfil 
human rights lies with States, civil society’s leadership 
on children’s rights has and continues to be indispensable 
for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights 
of the Child. States must, therefore, take all necessary 
measures  to  protect  civil-society  organizations  from 
violence,  threats,  retaliation,  adverse  discrimination, 
pressure or any other arbitrary action.
We are confident that when States and civil society 
work  together,  we  can  create  a  positive  change  for 
children. New technologies and innovative approaches 
to development will make this world a better place for 
them. By drawing on the skills and expertise of all people 
everywhere — across countries and cultures — we can 
achieve a sustainable implementation of the Convention 
on the Rights of the Child. In that way, we can protect 
future  generations,  promote  their  rights  and  create 
prosperous societies. It is with that spirit of optimism 
that I would like to close this statement.
The President: We have heard the last speaker for 
the high-level meeting on the occasion of the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 
64.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
18/18 
14-64058
