United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
38th plenary meeting
Monday, 3 November 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Rambally 
(Saint Lucia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 86 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/69/255)
Draft resolution (A/69/L.7)
Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea): My delegation 
would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  for  presenting  the  Agency’s  report  (see 
reviewing the IAEA’s work over the past year A/69/255) 
and outlining future priorities (see A/69/PV.37). With 
nuclear  power  and  applications  of  nuclear  technology 
expected to play a growing role in the coming decades, 
we  attach  great  importance  to  the  central  role  of  the 
Agency in promoting safe, secure and peaceful uses of 
nuclear energy. We are pleased with the report, which 
summarizes well the wide range of the Agency’s work 
carried out in line with the priorities set by its member 
States. 
Taking this opportunity, my delegation would like 
to  comment  on  the  Agency’s  activities  and  related 
developments  in  the  fields  of  nuclear  safety,  security 
and safeguards.
First  of  all, 
the  IAEA  has  made 
important 
contributions to the global nuclear safety framework, in 
terms of both improving the safety standards of nuclear 
facilities  and  materials  and  increasing  awareness  of 
safety-related  issues  among  member  States.  We  look 
forward to the continued implementation of the IAEA 
Action Plan on Nuclear Safety.
We  also  look  forward  to  the  publication  of  the 
comprehensive  report  next  year  on  the  Fukushima 
Daiichi nuclear accident. My delegation sincerely hopes 
that  the  important  lessons  and  recommendations  that 
can be drawn from that accident will be incorporated 
into each member State’s nuclear safety infrastructure in 
order to better prepare us to avoid such tragic accidents 
and to minimize the impact from such accidents in the 
future. In that regard, we hope that the commitment to 
sharing information in a transparent and timely manner 
continues.
We are pleased to note the IAEA’s many productive 
activities in the field of nuclear security over the past year. 
We look forward to the second International Conference 
on Nuclear Security, to be held in December 2016, based 
on  the  outcome  of  the  first  Conference,  in  2013.  The 
work of the Nuclear Security Guidance Committee has 
also been fruitful, contributing to greater transparency, 
quality,  coherence  and  consistency  in  publications  on 
nuclear  security  guidance.  In  addition,  we  appreciate 
the  Agency’s  focused  approach  to  bringing  into  force 
the 2005 Amendment to the Convention on the Physical 
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  which  has  resulted  in 
additional  ratifications  by  member  States,  including 
Korea in May.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-60259 (E)
*1460259*
A/69/PV.38 
03/11/2014
The  Nuclear  Security  Summit  process,  which 
began in Washington and continued in Seoul and The 
Hague, and the IAEA’s efforts to support national and 
international efforts to establish and maintain effective 
nuclear  security  have  been  mutually  reinforcing. 
The  Summits  have  served  as  a  useful  mechanism  to 
consolidate  political  commitment  at  the  highest  level 
to promote nuclear security across the globe, while the 
Agency has played an important role in translating that 
enhanced political momentum into concrete actions. As 
we prepare for the fourth Nuclear Security Summit in 
2016, we look forward to exploring ways to maximize 
the synergy between the IAEA and the Nuclear Security 
Summit process.
to 
issues,  my 
to 
delegation  appreciates 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of safeguards 
implementation.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  IAEA 
Board  of  Governers  took  note  of  the  Supplementary 
Document to the report on the State-level concept. We 
are  convinced  that  the  State-level  concept  will  allow 
the  Agency  to  make  better  use  of  its  resources  by 
concentrating  efforts  on  areas  of  greater  significance 
for  safeguards  and  on  improving  responsiveness  to 
changing  circumstances.  We  are  also  encouraged  by 
the  increasing  number  of  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements,  additional  protocols  and  amended  small-
quantities protocols in force.
the  Agency’s  efforts 
Turning 
safeguards-related 
However,  the  cases  of  non-compliance  on  the 
part  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Iran  and  Syria  continue  to  pose  grave  challenges  to 
the  international  non-proliferation  regime  and  the 
IAEA  safeguards  system.  Of  particular  concern  to 
my  delegation  is  North  Korea’s  continuous  pursuit 
of  its  nuclear  capability.  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  has  conducted  three  nuclear  tests 
and  publicly 
international  society 
by  the  announcement  of  further  nuclear  tests.  In 
addition,  North  Korea  continued  its  nuclear  activities 
in Yongbyon, including the operation of a 5-megawatt 
graphite-moderated  reactor.  As  the  IAEA  Director 
General  aptly  highlighted  in  his  latest  report  of 
September  2014,  such  actions  are  clear  violations  of 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
threatened 
the 
firm by its principle that North Korea’s nuclear ambition 
cannot be tolerated, the Republic of Korea will continue 
its efforts with the international community to achieve 
complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible  denuclearization 
of North Korea.
Turning to the Iranian nuclear issue, we commend 
the Agency for its efforts to actively engage Iran under 
the Joint Statement on a Framework for Cooperation, of 
November 2013, with the aim of resolving all present 
and  past  verification  issues  relating  to  the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme.  We  also  appreciate  the  Agency’s 
role  in  verifying  and  monitoring  Iran’s  voluntary 
measures  under  the  Joint  Plan  of  Action  between  the 
permanent  five  plus  one  and  Iran  in  November  2013. 
We call upon Iran to work closely with the Agency in 
order to resolve all outstanding issues, including those 
relating  to  possible  military  dimensions,  in  a  timely 
manner.
In the light of our full support for the IAEA’s work to 
achieve our common goal of harnessing nuclear energy 
in the service of peace and development for humanity, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft 
resolution A/69/L.7, on the report of the IAEA.
Mr. Elshandawily (Egypt): I make this statement 
on  behalf  of  Mr.  Abdellatif  Aboulatta,  Permanent 
Representative of Egypt to the United Nations.
Egypt  appreciates  its  ongoing  cooperation  with 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in 
the  Agency’s  fields  of  expertise,  serving  economic, 
social  and  human  development.  That  cooperation 
is  especially  important  as  Egypt  is  developing  a 
programme  to  construct  nuclear  power  plants  to 
produce  electrical  energy  and  to  desalinate  water  in 
order  to  meet  the  growing  demands  of  its  citizens, 
including those of the industrial sector. There is broad 
cooperation between Egypt and the IAEA to enhance 
Egyptian capabilities and human resources within that 
programme.  In  addition,  there  are  various  technical 
cooperation  programmes  between  Egypt  and 
the 
IAEA in other fields of nuclear applications, including 
scientific  research,  food  security,  the  environment, 
cancer  treatment,  industry,  mineral  wealth  and  water 
resources, to name just a few.
We  once  again  urge  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  come  into  full  compliance  with 
its  obligations  under  all  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions and commitments under the 19 September 
2005 Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks. Standing 
Egypt also welcomes cooperation with the IAEA in 
the field of nuclear security, the prime responsibility for 
which rests with the State at the national level. Egypt 
reaffirms  the  central  role  of  the  IAEA  in  enhancing 
the peaceful uses by member States of nuclear energy, 
2/11 
14-60259
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.38
in  parallel  with  efforts  to  enhance  nuclear  security.  I 
would like to point out that Egypt, in cooperation with 
the  Agency,  is  nearing  the  completion  of  a  regional 
Nuclear Security Training and Support Centre. Egypt 
also welcomes cooperation with the Agency in the field 
of  nuclear  safety.  That  work  is  of  special  importance 
in  guaranteeing  national  capabilities  to  deal  with 
nuclear  and  radiological  emergencies.  Egypt  benefits 
substantially  from  cooperating  with  the  IAEA  to 
enhance its capacities in that regard.
Egypt would also like to highlight the importance 
of the support provided by the IAEA through regional 
cooperation agreements in the fields of nuclear energy 
and  technology.  We  refer  in  particular  to  the  African 
Regional  Cooperative  Agreement 
for  Research, 
Development and Training Related to Nuclear Science 
and Technology, in which Egypt actively participates, 
which benefits regional cooperation within the African 
continent as well as with Arab States.
With 
the 
regard 
to  matters  concerning  nuclear 
non-proliferation,  Egypt  reiterates 
importance 
of  enhancing  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards.  We  would  like 
to recall in that regard the adoption by the fifty-eighth 
General  Conference  of  the  IAEA  of  Egypt’s  annual 
resolution regarding the application of IAEA safeguards 
in the Middle East. The implementation of the resolution 
would ensure that the remaining non-member State in 
the region accedes to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  as  a  non-nuclear-weapon 
State, and would affirm the urgent need for that State 
to agree forthwith to the application of comprehensive 
full-scope  Agency  safeguards  to  its  nuclear  facilities 
as an important confidence-building measure and as a 
step in enhancing peace and security in the context of 
the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the 
Middle East.
Egypt  is  keen  to  enhance  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  the  Agency’s  safeguards.  It  is  vital 
that the mechanisms and measures aimed at achieving 
that goal are clear and transparent and are undertaken 
with  the  participation  of  all  IAEA  member  States. 
Only that can guarantee full respect for the inalienable 
right of all States to development, research, production 
and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  in 
accordance with article IV of the NPT. In that context, 
Egypt would also like to affirm that the development of 
Agency safeguards should not lead to the imposition of 
additional obligations exceeding the current contractual 
obligations of member States.
Mr.  Benítez  Verson  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba supports the important work of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  and  we  welcome  the 
new  member  States:  Comoros,  Djibouti,  Guyana  and 
Vanuatu.
Technical  cooperation  is  one  of  the  main  pillars 
of  the  IAEA  and  should  be  given  priority  attention. 
In  the  2012-2013  cycle,  Cuba  reached  a  high  rate  of 
implementation in its technical cooperation programme 
with the IAEA, a rate of 97.34 per cent. Latin America 
for  its  part,  was  the  region  that  achieved  the  highest 
rate of project execution, 89.3 per cent. Our region can 
and  should  obtain  more  resources  from  the  IAEA  for 
technical cooperation.
Cuba  has  updated 
its  national  programming 
framework for technical cooperation during the 2014-
2018 period, which is based on our country’s efforts in 
the early detection and treatment of cancer, the leading 
cause  of  death  in  Cuba.  We  have  given  particular 
priority to the IAEA Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy.  That  Programme  should  be  provided  the 
financial resources necessary to broaden its scope and 
its results.
The criminal policy of the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  against  Cuba  for  more  than 
five  decades  is  affecting  the  implementation  of  our 
technical  cooperation  programme  with  the  IAEA. 
The  embargo  significantly  increases  our  country’s 
difficulties  in  acquiring  the  necessary  equipment  for 
technical  cooperation  projects.  That  raises  costs  and 
delays implementation unnecessarily.
The  effective  management  of  nuclear  security 
does  not  allow  for  any  exclusions  or  selectivity.  The 
international  norms 
that  govern  nuclear  security 
should be adopted within the framework of the IAEA, 
based on multilateral negotiations that are transparent 
and  inclusive,  with  the  participation  of  all  States. 
Cuba  welcomes  the  holding  of  the  upcoming  IAEA 
International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  which 
will take place in December 2016 with participation at 
the ministerial level.
The  entry  into  force  of  the  Amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  which  Cuba  ratified  last  year,  will  give 
14-60259
3/11
A/69/PV.38 
03/11/2014
greater protection to nuclear installations and materials 
and facilitate cooperation between States to prevent and 
combat related crimes. We will continue to enhance our 
excellent cooperation with the IAEA in implementing 
projects for improved nuclear physical security and the 
control of our borders and the installations that have in 
Category 1 and Category 2 radioactive materials. In the 
context of the IAEA safeguards, for seven consecutive 
years,  our  country  has  obtained  double  certification 
and satisfactory results from IAEA inspections.
We  must  preserve  the  credibility  of  the  IAEA’s 
activities in the area of safeguards, ensuring impartial 
and  professional  updates  in  that  area.  Cuba  supports 
the efforts to improve the efficiency of the safeguards, 
provided that that does not affect the legitimate rights 
of States nor establish any discriminatory or selective 
practices.  The  State-level  concept  of  safeguards  must 
be cautiously analysed by according due respect to the 
concerns of States in that regard.
We  need  greater  efficiency  and  effectiveness  in 
adopting IAEA decisions. That will involve enhancing 
the General Conference as the supreme legislative body, 
in which all member States participate. We also need to 
examine in depth the membership and functions of the 
Board of Governors.
We  welcome 
the  progress  made 
in  ongoing 
negotiations between the IAEA and the Islamic Republic 
of Iran. We encourage further progress in that process. 
We  also  reaffirm  our  firm  support  for  establishing  a 
Middle  East  nuclear-weapons-free  zone.  We  deeply 
regret the fact that the conference on that issue, planned 
for 2012, has still not been held. That jeopardizes the 
credibility  of  the  entire  system  established  by  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
Cuba encourages the holding of that conference without 
any further delay.
to 
seriously 
The  existence  of  over  16,000  nuclear  weapons 
continues 
threaten  humanity  with 
annihilation. That is why nuclear disarmament cannot 
be  a  goal  that  is  continually  postponed  and  made 
conditional.  The  only  way  to  avoid  the  use,  or  threat 
of use, of such weapons is their total elimination and 
prohibition under strict international verification. It is 
up to the IAEA to play an important role in achieving 
that goal.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  emphasize  the  fact  that 
Cuba  will  remain  steadfast  in  the  battle  to  achieve  a 
world free of nuclear weapons. That is our commitment 
to future generations.
(spoke 
(Argentina) 
Ms.  Babio 
in  Spanish): 
Argentina  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  of  and 
support  for  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) and to thank the Agency for its annual report 
for  2013  (see  A/69/255).  Argentina  believes  that 
the  IAEA  has  played  a  central  role  with  regard  to  in 
non-proliferation  and  international  cooperation  for 
scientific and technological development in the nuclear 
field.
Its  effective  monitoring  of  nuclear  activities  is 
essential, for example, to meet nuclear security goals. 
Our country has steadily maintained that the leadership 
role  in  articulating  the  future  design  of  the  nuclear 
security  architecture  should  be  the  responsibility  of 
the IAEA. It is the relevant body in the United Nations 
system  in  the  field  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.
Argentina  believes  that  one  of  the  pillars  of  the 
Agency’s work is nuclear and radiation security and the 
safe transport and handling of radioactive waste - areas 
that my country thinks are very important - as well as 
international cooperation in that field. The IAEA plays 
a key role in promoting nuclear technology for peaceful 
purposes, and our country contributes significantly to 
the work of the Agency with experts and services, and 
is a regional reference point.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  IAEA  in  1957, 
Argentina  has  actively  participated  in  its  technical 
cooperation programme through its technical agencies. 
Our  active  presence  there  has  allowed  us  to  finance 
a  large  number  of  national  and  regional  projects,  as 
has  our  participation  as  a  donor  to  third  countries 
through the IAEA, including to programmes within the 
Regional Cooperation Agreement for the Promotion of 
Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin America and 
the Caribbean.
As a point of interest with regard to the technical 
cooperation  programme  for  the  biennium  2014-2015, 
we  are  participating  in  20  technical  cooperation 
projects  at  the  national,  regional  and  interregional 
levels.  Argentina  is  also  up  to  date  with  its  financial 
obligations  for  technical  cooperation  and  has  made 
advance payments for its voluntary contributions to the 
IAEA Technical Cooperation Fund for 2015 and 2016. 
4/11 
14-60259
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.38
In  addition,  our  country  has  actively  participated 
in  the  work  of  expert  groups  in  the  areas  of  power 
reactors,  research  reactors,  nuclear  fuel  cycles  and 
the  development  of  infrastructure.  I  will  highlight 
the  current  promotion  of  regional  training  with  the 
promotion of the online platform of our main training 
reactor, the RA-6. We also play a key role in LANET, 
the Latin American Network for Education in Nuclear 
Technology.  Argentina  believes  that  we  should  join 
forces  so  as  to  generate  more  solid,  effective  and 
sustainable long-term nuclear infrastructure. 
International  guarantees  constitute  another  pillar 
of  the  Agency.  Along  with  nuclear  and  radiological 
safety,  they  are  especially  important  for  enhancing 
nuclear development. Argentina would like to reiterate 
in concluding that those guarantees must be anchored 
in an atmosphere of cooperation dialogue between the 
Agency and member States.
Mr. Al-Taie (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): My Government 
would like to express its gratitude to the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  to  its  Director 
General,  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  and  its  Secretariat  for 
producing  the  Agency’s  annual  report  for  2013  (see 
A/69/255).  We  appreciate  the  work  of  the  Agency 
during  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  particularly 
its  activities  concerning  safeguards,  verification,and  
nuclear safety and security, and in the areas of science 
and  technology  and  technological  cooperation.  That 
work  allows  member  States  to  enjoy  progress  and 
growth.
My delegation reasserts the inalienable rights of the 
parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) to produce and use nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes and to develop cooperative projects 
and  national  programmes  in  that  field,  in  particular 
in  developing  countries,  free  from  the  imposition  by 
certain  States  of  obstacles,  monopolies  or  conditions 
that could endanger the interests of developing States.
We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  principles  of 
balance  and  mutual  assistance  in  the  activities  of  the 
Agency with respect to budgetary matters. Any attempt 
to  reduce  the  technical  cooperation  programme  or  its 
budget  will  not  be  favourably  received.  We  hope  that 
funding resources will be predictable, safe and exact, 
and  that  there  will  be  some  increase  in  the  regular 
budget so as to reduce the gap between resources and 
needs. We hope that the working group responsible for 
the budget, which began its work earlier this year, will 
be successful.
The use of new technology, along with developments 
in  the  area  of  food  security,  disease  prevention  and 
biomedical  management,  should  bring  benefits  to  all 
peoples of the planet. We would therefore like to thank 
the IAEA and its technical cooperation programme for 
their  training  and  development  programmes  for  Arab 
countries  and  Asia.  The  implementation  rate  of  those 
programmes in Iraq is approaching 100 per cent.
With  a  view  to  reducing  radioactive  waste,  we 
have been working for seven years with experts from 
the  IAEA  and  friendly  countries,  including  European 
Union  countries,  to  dismantle  nuclear  sites  built  by 
the  previous  Iraqi  nuclear  programme.  Despite  the 
difficulties we have experienced with respect to security 
and  the  environment,  considerable  progress  has  been 
made  in  that  area,  The  installations  at  Tuwaitha  have 
been  decommissioned,  and  we  have  an  action  plan 
agreed with the Agency for the remaining installations. 
Our  Government  is  committed  to  improving  security 
measures  to  spare  future  generations  the  effects  of 
nuclear pollution from destroyed sites or the remnants 
of  the  1991  and  2003  wars.  All  of  the  measures 
adopted have followed IAEA guidelines. We have also 
established a national commission to develop an overall 
strategy for managing nuclear waste, and we hope to be 
able to dispose of all such waste in a safe way.
We are also working on the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy  with  a  view  to  harnessing  it  for  medical, 
agricultural,  industrial  and  environmental  projects, 
and we call on the Agency to provide further assistance 
to  Iraq  in  those  areas.  We  reiterate  that  Iraq  requires 
international support to decontaminate its environment. 
Iraqi  national  institutions  are  also  assessing  the 
dangers of terrorist groups acquiring access to nuclear 
installations and material. That is being monitored by 
our national centre, which is headed by the Cabinet of 
Ministers.
Iraqi  institutions  are  continuing  their  efforts  to 
ensure the security and safety of our nuclear activities 
in  accordance  with  our  laws  and  executive  powers. 
On  7  July,  Iraq  became  a  party  to  the  Convention  on 
the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  We  have 
also  ratified  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  We  have 
prepared a draft law to ratify the Convention on Nuclear 
Safety and the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent 
Fuel  Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive 
Waste  Management,  which  will  be  submitted  to  the 
Parliament.  In  discussions  with  the  Agency,  we  have 
14-60259
5/11
A/69/PV.38 
03/11/2014
developed our nuclear safety and security programme 
with  a  view  to  better  protecting  the  safety  of  our 
nuclear installations and nuclear material, as well as to 
gathering information and necessary data in that area. 
We  have  also  made  much  progress  towards  ensuring 
that we have a national system for the management of 
dual-use and sensitive material subject to international 
conventions.
We  reiterate  the  importance  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  It  is  vital  that 
the  parties  to  the  Treaty  submit  their  installations  to 
inspection  by  the  Agency.  We  also  stress  the  need  to 
implement  Security  Council  resolution  487  (1981), 
which calls on Israel to put all its nuclear installations 
under  the  Agency’s  safeguards  system,  along  with 
paragraph 14 of Council resolution 687 (1991), calling for 
a nuclear-weapon-free zone and a zone free of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  We  stress  as 
well the need to implement the Final Document of the 
1995 NPT Review Conference and the decision taken in 
2010 to implement the 1995 resolution on establishing a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. 
Regarding  nuclear  security,  we  pay  tribute  to 
the  leading  role  being  played  by  the  IAEA  and  wish 
it  success  in  implementing  the  Nuclear  Security  Plan 
2014-2017.
terrorist  organizations  and 
The  past  three  months  have  revealed  a  great  deal 
about 
their  activities. 
That  has  led  the  international  community  to  reassess 
the  threat  to  international  peace  and  security  that 
such  groups  represent  and  to  adopt  Security  Council 
resolutions whose implementation requires coordinated 
efforts  at  the  international  level  to  combat  terrorism 
and  to  limit  the  sources  of  funding  of  such  groups 
and to combat their access to resources and weapons. 
We  salute  the  efforts  of  the  five  permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  European  Union  to 
establish  an  international  alliance  to  combat  terrorist 
organizations.
Ms. Bila (Ukraine): Ukraine supports the activities 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
in  promoting  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes. We also take a positive view of the Agency’s 
activities  in  all  the  main  statutory  areas:  nuclear 
safety  and  security;  nuclear  science,  technology  and 
applications;  and  safeguards  and  nuclear  verification. 
The  Agency  makes  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
achievement of global development goals.
We  acknowledge  the  Agency’s  central  role  in 
strengthening  the  global  nuclear  safety  framework, 
particularly in the light of the accidents at the Chernobyl 
and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plants. Ukraine 
considers  it  important  to  ensure  that  the  development 
and use of nuclear energy takes place under strict safety 
and security conditions. We have a solid track record on 
maintaining safety and security at our nuclear facilities. 
All of our nuclear power plants are currently operating 
in regular mode, and we are in full compliance with our 
obligations under the Convention on Nuclear Safety, as 
was recently confirmed at the Sixth Review Meeting of 
the Contracting Parties to the Convention.
We  reiterate  our  strong  support  for  the  Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  programme.  Ukraine  values 
the  Programme’s  in  the  responsible  development  of 
peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  technology  in  the 
areas  of  human  health,  food  and  agriculture,  water 
management  and  strengthening  nuclear  and  radiation 
safety.  It  serves  as  a  powerful  tool  for  the  exchange 
of  nuclear  knowledge  and  capacity-building  among 
member States. 
to 
improving 
The  IAEA’s  regional  and  national 
technical 
cooperation  projects  have  contributed  significantly 
to  nuclear  safety  and 
the  overall 
effectiveness  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy 
in  Ukraine.  In  2014  and  2015  Ukraine  has  continued 
and will continue to work with the IAEA in areas such 
as  radioactive  waste  management  and  nuclear  power 
plant  decommissioning;  developing  decontamination, 
recultivation  and  reconstruction  infrastructure  for 
existing uranium mines and former uranium production 
facilities;  defining  safety  goals  and 
regulatory 
strategies for nuclear power plants; and strengthening 
our radiation therapy dosimetry laboratory.
Minimizing  the  consequences  of  the  Chernobyl 
accident,  as  well  as 
the  social  and  economic 
rehabilitation  of  territories  contaminated  by  it,  is  a 
priority for the Government of Ukraine. Construction 
of a new safe confinement over the destroyed unit 4 of 
the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  is  currently  under 
way, with completion planned for 2015. It will enable us 
to transform the object shelter into an environmentally 
and  ecologically  safe  system.  We  continue  to  back 
ongoing regional projects for Europe within the IAEA’s 
technical cooperation programme aimed at supporting a 
return to normal radiological environmental conditions 
for the areas affected by the Chernobyl accident as well 
6/11 
14-60259
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.38
as  decommissioning  and  waste  management  for  the 
Chernobyl and A1 nuclear power plants.
Nuclear security is an important and integral part 
of the Agency’s activity. Ukraine commends it for its 
work  to  assist  States,  at  their  request,  in  enhancing 
their national nuclear and radioactive security regimes 
and  improving  their  physical  protection  of  nuclear 
materials.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  IAEA’s 
important role in fostering international cooperation in 
that area. Ukraine welcomes the IAEA’s adoption of its 
Nuclear Security Plan 2014-2017. 
that 
Proceeding  from 
the  understanding 
the 
responsibility for nuclear security rests with individual 
States,  Ukraine  wishes  to  emphasize  that  all  of  its 
nuclear  facilities  are  operating  in  regular  mode. 
The  relevant  Ukrainian  authorities  have  undertaken 
additional  effective  measures  to  ensure  their  nuclear 
security, including the reinforced physical protection of 
15 power units in operation at four nuclear power plant 
sites.
Ukraine  is  fully  committed  to  participating  in 
effective  multilateral  action  aimed  at  combating  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
considers  the  universalization  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  be  of  the 
utmost importance. We stress the paramount importance 
of the IAEA safeguards for providing effective control 
over  sensitive  materials  and  activities.  The  Agency’s 
system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental  component  of 
the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. We believe 
that,  taken  together,  the  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement and its additional protocol constitute the best 
standard for verification and that universal adherence 
to  both  instruments  strengthens  the  global  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime.
Ukraine supports the Agency’s efforts to improve 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  its  safeguards 
system. We have taken note of the Director General’s 
report in the Supplementary Document to the Report on 
the Conceptualization and Development of Safeguards 
Implementation  at  the  State  Level,  and  we  commend 
the  Agency’s  work  aimed  at  further  supporting  the 
effective  application  of  safeguards  and  expanding  the 
possibility  of  accomplishing  new  tasks  related  to  the 
development of nuclear technologies.
Ukraine  does  not  recognize  the  illegitimately 
proclaimed Republic of Crimea or its illegal annexation 
as  a  constituent  entity  by  the  Russian  Federation. 
Ukraine’s  sovereignty,  political  independence,  unity 
and territorial integrity were emphasized in resolution 
68/262, on the territorial integrity of Ukraine, adopted 
on 27 March. The Russian Federation’s illegal actions 
have violated the universally recognized principles and 
norms of international law, Russia’s obligations under 
the Charter of the United Nations, and the bilateral and 
multilateral treaties guaranteeing Ukraine’s sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  and  the  inviolability  of  its 
borders.
The Russian Federation has flagrantly violated the 
security  assurances  that  it,  together  with  the  United 
States and the United Kingdom, provided to Ukraine in 
the memorandum signed in connection with Ukraine’s 
accession  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  The  ongoing  occupation  of  part 
of  Ukraine’s  territory  –  the  Autonomous  Republic  of 
Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol,  where  Ukrainian 
nuclear facilities and material are located — undermines 
the non-proliferation regime established by the Treaty, 
to  which  Ukraine  acceded  as  a  non-nuclear-weapon 
State by accepting, pursuant to article III of the Treaty, 
the safeguards defined in the safeguards agreement and 
additional protocol between Ukraine and the IAEA.
its  entire 
retains 
throughout 
territory,  which 
In that connection, the Ukrainian side emphasizes, 
first, that according to the Constitution of Ukraine and 
Ukraine’s  law  on  securing  the  rights  and  freedoms 
of  citizens  and  the  legal  regime  in  the  temporarily 
occupied  territory  of  Ukraine,  Ukraine’s  sovereignty 
extends 
is 
indivisible  and  inviolable  within  its  existing  borders. 
Secondly,  Ukraine 
jurisdiction  over  all 
nuclear  facilities  and  materials  -  including  the  DR-
100 research reactor and other nuclear facilities at the 
Sevastopol National University for Nuclear Energy and 
Industry — which are the property of Ukraine and are 
located in the temporarily occupied territory. Thirdly, 
the  provisions  of  the  safeguards  agreement  between 
Ukraine  and  the  IAEA  in  connection  with  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  remain 
fully effective and apply to all of the nuclear facilities 
and  materials  in  Ukraine,  including  those  located  in 
the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Ukraine 
supports the IAEA’s principled position on continuing 
to apply the safeguards to Ukrainian nuclear facilities 
and  materials,  in  accordance  with  the  norms  of 
international  law  and  the  IAEA  Statute  and  based  on 
the fact that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is an 
integral part of Ukraine.
14-60259
7/11
A/69/PV.38 
03/11/2014
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  Ukraine  prohibits 
throughout  its  territory  —  including  the  temporarily 
occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city 
of Sevastopol — the deployment of nuclear weapons and 
diversion of Ukrainian nuclear materials and facilities 
for  military  purposes,  including  the  DR-100  research 
reactor  and  other  nuclear  facilities  of  the  Sevastopol 
National  University  for  Nuclear  Energy  and  Industry. 
We therefore urge the Russian side to abstain from any 
actions that might lead to violations of the nuclear-free 
status of the part of Ukraine’s territory occupied by the 
Russian Federation and might hamper the possibility of 
extending to Ukraine’s nuclear facilities and materials 
the  21  February  1985  agreement  between  the  former 
Soviet Union and the Agency and its additional protocol 
of 22 March 2000, .
The Fukushima Daiichi accident in 2011 resulted in 
widespread concern about the safety of nuclear power 
plants  worldwide  and  triggered  discussions  about 
the feasibility of nuclear energy as a source of power 
generation.  We  would  like  to  reiterate  that  nuclear 
power will continue to be an important component of 
Ukraine’s energy strategy in the middle and long term 
and will continue to serve as a basis for the sustainable 
development  of  our  national  economy.  Its  growing 
importance  has  been  reflected  in  the  updated  energy 
strategy of Ukraine for the period until 2030.
In  conclusion,  we  would 
join  other 
delegations in welcoming the IAEA report to the sixty-
ninth session of the General Assembly (see A/69/255) 
and  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  work  done  by 
the Agency.
like 
to 
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): I would like to begin by 
expressing my delegation’s sincere thanks to the Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  for  presenting  the  Agency’s  comprehensive 
annual  report  (see  A/69/255)  and  for  his  statement 
(see  A/69/PV.37),  both  of  which  contain  important 
information about the activities of the Agency during 
2013 and 2014. We look forward to continuing to work 
closely with Ambassador Amano and to strengthening 
the  established  cooperation  between  Indonesia  and 
the IAEA.
The  IAEA  has  a  vital  role  to  play  in  assisting 
and  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science 
and  technology,  especially  in  developing  countries, 
including Indonesia. For Indonesia, nuclear technology 
is  a  valuable  tool  for  addressing  many  aspects  of  our 
national development programmes, particularly in the 
areas of health, food and agriculture, water resources 
management,  environmental  protection  and  industry. 
Among  the  applications  for  ensuring  food  security 
and  improving  people’s  livelihoods,  Indonesia  has 
been  using  radiation-induced  mutation  and  other 
nuclear  and  radioisotope  techniques  to  increase  crop 
quality  and  productivity.  We  are  also  enhancing 
irradiation technology applications for the sanitary and 
phytosanitary treatment of agricultural products.
We  continue  to  have  great  confidence  in  the 
usefulness  of  nuclear  technologies  and  the  synergies 
fostered  by  international  cooperation  in  the  nuclear 
field,  for  which  the  work  of  the  IAEA  is  critical. 
Indonesia commends the Agency’s various activities in 
the  field  of  applying  nuclear  technology  to  the  areas 
of  food  security  and  agriculture,  disease  prevention 
and  control,  water  resources  and  environmental 
management, and radioisotope and radiation technology. 
We also commend the progress made by the Agency in 
nuclear energy development and welcome the assistance 
provided to member States interested in launching and 
expanding nuclear power programmes.
Owing  to  the  growth  of  the  industrial  sector  in 
Indonesia,  there  is  increasing  demand  for  energy.  We 
are  determined  to  harness  nuclear  energy  as  part  of 
the national energy mix in order to secure our energy 
supply, and we intend to introduce nuclear power plants 
for  that  purpose.  We  are  especially  thankful  to  the 
IAEA for providing Indonesia with technical assistance 
in  infrastructure  development,  which  is  one  of  the 
important  steps  in  the  introduction  of  nuclear  power 
plants.  Indeed,  the  IAEA  Department  of  Technical 
Cooperation plays an indispensable role as the Agency’s 
main  vehicle  for  delivering  on  the  Agency’s  mandate 
to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology, 
especially in the developing regions of the world. There 
is a need for all of us to continue supporting the IAEA’s 
resources for technical cooperation.
Ensuring  that  nuclear  science  and  technology  are 
used  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes  is  a  statutory 
function  of  the  Agency.  We  therefore  appreciate 
the  IAEA’s  activities  to  verify  that  States  are  fully 
complying  with  their  non-proliferation  obligations 
and to confirm that nuclear material is being used for 
peaceful purposes. We are convinced that the Agency’s 
safeguards have contributed to strengthening collective 
security  and  have  helped  to  create  an  environment 
conducive to nuclear cooperation.
8/11 
14-60259
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.38
international  efforts 
With  respect  to  the  IAEA’s  function  in  the  area 
of  nuclear  safety,  Indonesia  welcomes  its  activities 
undertaken to establish safety standards. We recognize 
the  Agency’s  central  role  in  promoting  international 
cooperation,  coordinating 
to 
strengthen  global  nuclear  safety,  and  providing 
expertise  and  advice  in  that  field.  We  also  welcome 
the progress made on the implementation of the IAEA 
Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety.  While  the  primary 
responsibility for nuclear safety is in the hands of each 
State, we believe that the IAEA’s role in assuring the 
safety  of  all  nuclear  activities  worldwide  should  be 
enhanced and strengthened to the extent mandated by 
its Statute.
Turning  to  the  Agency’s  activities  in  the  area  of 
nuclear security, our view is that while the responsibility 
of ensuring nuclear security within a State lies primarily 
with  its  Government,  international  cooperation  and 
coordination to ensure nuclear security worldwide are 
crucial, and the IAEA again has a central role to play 
in that regard. We are pleased that the IAEA has helped 
countries  to  reduce  the  risk  of  terrorists  obtaining 
nuclear or radioactive materials and to prevent sabotage 
at nuclear facilities.
To  conclude,  we  reiterate  our  appreciation  of  the 
IAEA,  as  its  activities  have  greatly  contributed  to  a 
more  prosperous,  secure  and  safe  world.  The  IAEA 
needs  our  continued  and  strong  support  for  fulfilling 
the mandate enshrined in its Statute, and Indonesia will 
continue to play its role in that regard.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 86. We shall now 
proceed to consider draft resolution A/69/L.7.
Before giving the floor to the speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. An Myong Hun (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  state  its  position  on 
draft  resolution  A/69/L.7,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. This statement 
will also constitute my delegation’s reply to irrelevant 
and even hostile statements made by some delegations, 
including those of Japan and South Korea, concerning 
the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The 
delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea rejects those statements and therefore also rejects 
the draft resolution.
The  possession  of  nuclear  deterrence  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is the result of 
the hostility of the United States against the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, which is why the solution 
to the nuclear issue depends entirely on the withdrawal 
of  the  United  States’  hostile  policy.  Nevertheless,  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  submits 
every  year  to  the  General  Assembly  the  same  partial 
and  unjust  resolution,  in  step  with  the  hostile  policy 
of  the  United  States,  designed  to  disarm  and  destroy 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Since the 
IAEA’s action is devoid of impartiality and objectivity, 
it has lost its integrity.
It was the United States and the IAEA that created 
suspicions  about  our  peaceful  nuclear  facilities,  and 
it  was  also  they  who  forced  my  country  to  take  self-
defensive measures to withdraw from the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We have never 
recognized the resolutions of the Security Council and 
the Board of Governors of the IAEA on the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. As we have made clear, the 
nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula is the product of 
the United States’ hostile policy and its nuclear threats 
against my country, and we were compelled to possess 
nuclear  deterrence  in  order  to  defend  our  sovereignty 
and right to exist.
As long as the United States hostile policy persists, 
peace  and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  in 
its  surrounding  region  cannot  be  expected,  nor  can  a 
solution to the nuclear issue. The hostile policy of the 
United  States,  including  the  aggressive  joint  military 
exercises  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  must  be  totally  eliminated  if  the  danger  of 
nuclear war is to be removed from the Korean peninsula.
If  the  United  States  continues  to  threaten  and 
blackmail the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
with  nuclear  weapons,  we  will  continue  to  exercise 
the  right  to  self-defence  by  strengthening  our  nuclear 
deterrence  capabilities.  If  the  IAEA  wants  to  see  a 
proper  solution  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula, it must take a fair stance by questioning the 
move  of  the  United  States,  which  created  the  nuclear 
issue on the Korean peninsula and continues to threaten 
my country with nuclear weapons.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
its 
to  again  put  on 
delegation  wishes 
record 
14-60259
9/11
A/69/PV.38 
03/11/2014
opposition to draft resolution A/69/L.7 concerning the  
IAEA report.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of vote before the vote.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/69/L.7, entitled “Report of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like to announce that since the submission of the draft 
resolution, in addition to those delegations listed in the 
document,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/69/L.7:  Colombia, 
Iceland,  Liechtenstein,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  the 
Russian Federation and San Marino.
resolution 
adopted  
A/69/L.7  was 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.7?
Draft 
(resolution 69/7).
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  those 
representatives  who  have  requested 
in 
exercise  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
to  speak 
Mrs.  Jakubonė  (Lithuania):  Lithuania  exercises 
its right of reply with regard to the statement delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Belarus  (see  A/69/PV.37). 
Countries developing new nuclear energy projects are 
expected  to  follow  the  principles  of  transparency  and 
responsibility.  Each  country  has  the  right  to  develop 
nuclear energy, provided that international obligations 
on  nuclear  safety  are  not  forgotten  and  national 
decisions  are  taken  in  a  broader  context  of  possible 
transboundary  implications.  That  is  why  we  express 
our concern when nuclear energy installations in closed 
neighbourhoods  are  being  constructed  without  the 
proper  implementation  of  international  conventions, 
nuclear safety standards and dialogue with neighbours. 
The  lack  of  transparency  and  essential  information, 
especially  on  site  selection,  seismic  evaluation  and 
emergency preparedness plans, are disturbing.
Confidence-building and maximum safety are crucial 
for nuclear energy development. The implementation of 
the safety standards of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  adherence  to  the  Convention  on 
Nuclear Safety and cooperation with specialized IAEA 
missions for the whole nuclear fuel cycle, including site 
safety,  should  become  inseparable  from  any  nuclear 
power  programme.  Therefore,  acknowledging  that  it 
is  our  common  interest  to  ensure  a  maximum  safety 
level in nuclear power plants, we call on all countries 
implementing  nuclear  energy  projects  to  use  the 
instruments  provided  by  the  IAEA  and  international 
conventions from the very beginning of the project in 
order to guarantee a safe environment and the safe use 
of nuclear energy.
Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
Frankly, we are amazed that the Ukrainian delegation 
has once again used any available opportunity presented 
by  the  United  Nations  platform  for  its  rhetoric  and 
insinuations and for raising issues that are not relevant 
to the agenda item. I do not wish to enter into polemics, 
but I need to make a few comments with regard to the 
status of nuclear installations in Crimea.
The  agreement  of  21  February  1985  between  the 
Soviet  Union  and  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  and  its  additional  protocol  of  22  March  2000 
have covered all the territory of the Republic of Crimea 
and  the  city  of  Sevastopol  as  subjects  of  the  Russian 
Federation  since  18  March.  Russia,  acting  in  a  spirit 
of  openness  and  cooperation,  has  worked  with  the 
Secretariat  of  the  IAEA  on  the  status  of  the  nuclear 
installations in the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol 
and on establishing peaceful conditions in which IAEA 
safeguards  can  be  possible,  in  accordance  with  the 
agreement  between  us  and  the  IAEA.  Therefore,  the 
situation is fully in line with international law.
Secondly, according to the voluntary decision of the 
people of Crimea to unite with Russia, in the referendum 
of 16 March, which was carried out in accordance with 
the Charter of the United Nations, and the agreement 
of  18  March  to  absorb  Crimea  into  the  Russian 
Federation,  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Crimea 
and  the  city  of  Sevastopol  are  under  the  jurisdiction 
of the Russian Federation. Therefore, Russia has taken 
full  responsibility  for  nuclear  installations  in  its  new 
territories.  Furthermore,  the  Russian  Federation  is 
ready to provide the Agency, if it so requests, with any 
information on the nuclear material being used. That is 
10/11 
14-60259
03/11/2014 
A/69/PV.38
all provided for in the agreement between the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the IAEA of 1985.
Regarding  the  suggestion  that  the  actions  of 
the  Russian  Federation  highlight  the  instability  of 
the  whole  concept  of  negative  safety  guarantees  for 
non-nuclear  States  and  thereby  destroy  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime,    it  is  worth  noting  that  the 
only common component of the Budapest Memorandum 
and the concept of negative guarantees in the classical 
meaning is the commitment not to use nuclear weapons 
or  threaten  to  use  them  against  non-nuclear-weapon 
States. The Russian Federation’s promise to Ukraine in 
that regard has in no way been violated. The remaining 
commitments  under 
the  Budapest  Memorandum 
represent the principles of the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  have  nothing  to  do 
with  the  concept  of  negative  safeguards  in  particular 
or with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons in general. Therefore, claims that the actions 
of  the  Russian  Federation  undermine  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime  are  inconsistent  and  not  in 
good faith.
Ms.  Bila  (Ukraine):  I  am  not  going  to  get  into  a 
long speech to explain how what has just been said are 
lies. I will briefly explain that the agreement between 
Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency is 
the main document regulating and providing safeguards 
relating to objects located on the occupied territory, and 
that was determined by the territory. Therefore, it is not 
for anyone in this Hall to speak about any documents 
between Russia and the Agency concerning objects that 
are on Ukrainian territory.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 86?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.15 p.m.
14-60259
11/11
