United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
15th plenary meeting
Saturday, 27 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the King of the Kingdom of Tonga.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom 
of Tonga, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom of 
Tonga, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King Tupou VI: I would like to congratulate you 
warmly,  Sir,  on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, and to 
assure you that the Tongan delegation will fully support 
the  crucial  work  ahead  under  your  able  leadership.  I 
would  also  like  to  thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.  John 
Ashe, for his sterling conduct of the previous session, 
especially his championing of issues relating to small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS).  And  I  pay  tribute  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  exemplary 
stewardship in advancing the commitment of the United 
Nations  to  building  a  more  peaceful  and  prosperous 
world  amid  the  diverse  and  complex  issues  it  faces 
today.
My  delegation  and  I  welcome  the  theme  of  this 
year’s general debate, “Delivering on and implementing 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”, 
and  we  look  forward  to  the  three  high-level  thematic 
debates and the high-level event to be held next year. 
As we work together to formulate a historic post-2015 
development agenda, we are cognizant that we must be 
ambitious and transformative in our approach in order 
to ensure tangible benefits for our people. Responsive 
access  to  financial  resources  is  essential  if  we  are  to 
cement  the  adoption  of  a  meaningful  development 
agenda and its full implementation.
into 
integrated 
Tonga  supports  the  consensus  that  the  report  of 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals  should  be 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  with  a  global  commitment  to 
eradicating poverty by 2030. The proposed sustainable 
development  goals  on  oceans,  seas  and  marine 
resources  and  climate  change  are  woven  intimately 
and  intricately  into  the  fabric  of  the  very  survival  of 
Pacific  small  island  developing  States.  Without  them, 
our  joint  aspirations  for  sustainable  development  and 
economic  growth  will  not  be  achieved,  and  we  will 
be  left  behind.  The  Small  Island  Developing  States 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway,  known  as 
the Samoa Pathway outcome document, was endorsed 
by SIDS leaders and their partners earlier this month. It 
is a blueprint for the sustainable development of small 
island developing States for the next decade and should 
therefore be integrated into the form and substance of 
the post-2015 development agenda.
In order to guarantee harmony in our implementation 
of  the  development  agenda,  Tonga  agrees  that  each 
country  should  take  primary  responsibility  for  its 
own  economic  growth,  social  development  and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55126 (E)
*1455126*
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
environmental  sustainability.  However,  that  can  be 
fulfilled only with the active engagement of all relevant 
stakeholders through genuine and durable partnerships. 
We  look  forward  to  working  together  towards  the 
summit  in  September  2015  when  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  will  adopt  a  post-2015  development 
agenda  that  will  be  inclusive  and  people-centred.  It 
will be a historic event, adding further meaning to the 
celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations.
is  concerned  with  charting  a  course 
This  year,  the  Pacific  island  leaders  endorsed  the 
Palau  Declaration  on  “The  Ocean:  Life  &  Future”, 
which 
to 
sustainability. Tonga is a joint custodian of the Pacific 
Ocean,  whose  natural  resources  form  the  bedrock  of 
economic, social and environmental development in the 
Pacific  islands.  The  well-being  of  the  Tongan  people 
is therefore premised on the sustainable development, 
management  and  conservation  of  the  ocean  and  its 
resources. The management of seabed exploration and 
exploitation  is  an  important  facet  of  Tonga’s  interests 
in the oceans, and we have worked diligently through 
the  relevant  institutions  established  under  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 
to  ensure  that  activity  within  the  area  located  in  the 
Pacific Ocean is managed appropriately for the benefit 
of humankind.
For the first time, Tonga sought election to a seat 
on the relevant body established under UNCLOS, the 
Council  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority,  and 
was  elected  by  acclamation  by  its  member  States. 
This  year,  Tonga  passed  legislation  related  to  seabed 
mining activities within Tonga’s jurisdiction and under 
the  provisions  of  UNCLOS.  We  joined  our  Pacific 
Island neighbours in supporting the call for launching 
negotiations  by  September  2015  on  an  international 
agreement  under  UNCLOS  on  the  management  and 
conservation of the ocean and its resources, both within 
our national jurisdiction and in areas beyond.
Tonga commends the Secretary-General’s initiative 
in  convening  the  recent  Climate  Summit  as  a  forum 
for  world  leaders  to  deliver  bold  announcements  on 
climate change mitigation and adaptation. In the spirit 
of sustaining international cooperation, we support the 
urgent  call  for  States  to  address  the  adverse  impacts 
of climate change. The collective response will depend 
on  the  outcome  of  the  ongoing  negotiations  being 
conducted  through  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. Nevertheless, it should 
be  based  on  the  principles  of  equity  and  common 
but  differentiated  responsibility,  as  enshrined  in  the 
Convention.  The  principles  and  overall  objective 
espoused  by  the  Convention  must  be  fully  observed 
if  the  threat  of  climate  change  is  to  be  effectively 
addressed and overcome for our common benefit.
The  Global  Risks  Report  2013  ranked  Tonga  as 
the  second  most  vulnerable  country  in  the  world  to 
natural disasters. That vulnerability was demonstrated 
by  our  first  category-5  cyclone  earlier  this  year, 
which  devastated  our  central  island  group,  displacing 
thousands  and  resulting  in  millions  of  dollars’  worth 
of  damage.  However,  and  fortunately,  it  caused  only 
one  fatality.  Today,  that  same  central  island  group  is 
experiencing  an  unseasonable  drought.  Tonga  has 
used a whole-of-country approach — through its joint 
national action plan on climate-change adaptation and 
disaster-risk  management —  to  establish  a  base  from 
which  to  move  forward  with  adaptation  measures.  In 
terms  of  mitigation,  we  are  gradually  reducing  our 
fossil-fuel consumption.
Tonga  applauds  the  convening  of  the  high-level 
event on combating climate change, and it would like to 
recall here that Pacific island countries were among the 
first to raise the alarm on the implications of climate 
change  for  security,  both  regionally  and  generally.  In 
that regard, we support the call to the Security Council 
to  reconsider  its  stance  and  to  recognize  the  links 
between  climate  change  and  international  peace  and 
security.  We  also  support  the  call  to  the  Secretary-
General to appoint a special representative on climate 
and security to research those links and report back to 
Member States.
Tonga  associates  itself  with  those  Member  States 
that  have  appealed  for  a  meaningful  approach,  going 
beyond the rhetoric, to reforming the Security Council 
through an intergovernmental process in order to make 
it  more  representative  and  inclusive.  We  also  support 
the  request  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  in  the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution  55/2)  that 
its  goals  include  the  important  work  of  revitalizing 
the  General  Assembly.  That  general  reform  process 
must  continue  if  we  are  to  ensure  greater  efficiency, 
representativeness  and  transparency  throughout  the 
United Nations system as a whole, thereby enabling this 
great institution to be better prepared to respond to the 
realities we live with today.
Finally,  for  future  generations  to  live  in  a  better 
world,  we  must  work  harmoniously  to  fulfil  our 
2/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
responsibilities  and  ask  the  Almighty  to  guide  us 
through our growing challenges.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of 
Tonga for the statement he has just made.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom 
of Tonga, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President 
of the Republic of Mali
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of 
the Republic of Mali, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Keita  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my  great 
pleasure,  Mr.  President,  to  convey  to  you  warm 
congratulations  from  the  delegation  of  Mali  on  your 
election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session. The unanimous vote that you received on 
11 June is an honour for your country, Uganda, and is 
a source of legitimate pride for all of Africa. I assure 
you  of  our  fullest  support  for  success  in  your  new 
position. At the same time, I wish to congratulate your 
predecessor, Ambassador John William Ashe, who so 
ably led the Assembly during his tenure as President at 
the sixty-eighth session. I should also like to pay tribute 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless 
commitment to resolving the crisis in Mali and for the 
laudable efforts he continues to make to promote peace, 
security and development throughout the world.
Mr.  President,  you  have  established  a  useful 
agenda and opted for continuity in selecting the central 
theme  of  the  sixty-ninth  session,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”.  I  commend  your  choice.  Indeed,  since  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
in 2012, our Organization has been engaged in various 
intergovernmental  processes  to  implement  the  slogan 
“The future we want.”
In  Rio  de  Janeiro,  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  took  up  the  challenge  to  provide  a  better 
world  for  current  and  future  generations.  To  deliver 
on that undertaking, we will require noble, ambitious, 
legitimate and strong leadership, strong political will, 
constant  determination  and  insight  so  as  to  ensure  a 
balanced  integration  of  the  three  essential  pillars  of 
sustainable development, namely, social, economic and 
environmental. What we have heard over the past few 
days leads us to believe that it is feasible.
However,  as  we  prepare  to  embark  on  the  design 
phase of the transformative post-2015 programme, we 
must first complete a vital task. My delegation wishes 
to emphasize the need to ensure the full implementation 
of  the  substantial  prior  commitments  we  undertook. 
Accordingly, we want to make a heartfelt plea in favour 
of  expediting  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). In sum, I would reiterate 
that Mali subscribes to the core theme of this session, 
which  is  relevant,  thanks  to  its  inclusive,  universal, 
ambitious  and  transformative  aspects.  The  theme 
not  only  includes  all  the  essential  components  of  the 
outstanding MDGs, but it also focuses on the sustainable 
development  goals  (SDGs),  which  will  be  based  on  a 
transparent intergovernmental process.
Like  other  delegations,  African  and  non-African 
alike, that have spoken before me, I remain convinced 
that  the  eradication  of  poverty  by  2030  should  be  a 
priority target of commitments relating to the post-2015 
development agenda that we are to adopt. Fortunately, 
the  contribution  of  Africa  to  the  current  process  is 
already formalized in the Common African Position on 
Post-2015 Development, adopted at the African Union 
Summit in Malabo in June. That joint position makes 
social, economic and environmental sustainability the 
keystone of our continent’s development policy.
But the policy is also built on essential pillars, such 
as the transformation of economic structures, inclusive 
growth, science, technology, innovation, human-centred 
development, environmental sustainability, and natural 
resource and natural disaster risk management, as well 
as  peace  and  security.  Naturally,  we  strongly  support 
the  African  position,  the  relevance  and  rightness  of 
which goes without saying. I also urge the international 
community  to  diligently  review  the  Common  African 
Position.  The  concerns  of  the  continent  listed  in  that 
position  statement  were  identified  through  a  process 
conducted with care and precision.
14-55126
3/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
As we approach the 2015 deadline, Africa is again 
faced  with  a  terrible  epidemic  of  the  Ebola  virus, 
which  has  run  rampant,  this  time  in  Guinea,  Sierra 
Leone, Liberia and other countries of West Africa. The 
rapid  onset  and  the  scale  of  that  new  challenge  have 
sorely  tested  all  the  public-health  systems  already  in 
place.  The  individual  capacities  of  our  States,  which 
are  fragile  and  in  the  process  of  being  strengthened, 
will not be sufficient to cope with the crisis. We must 
pool our resources and redouble our efforts. We must 
attack the new epicentres. Today more than ever, it is 
important to adopt a common strategy to deal with this 
epidemic, which brings grief to numerous homes every 
day.
I  want  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  efforts,  and,  in  these 
times  of  hardship,  to  assure  our  brother  countries 
of  our  support  and  active  solidarity.  I  also  wish  to 
commend and thank various nations, including France, 
the United States of America, China and Cuba, which 
immediately responded with short-, medium- and long-
term  assistance,  provided  swiftly  and  in  a  balanced 
manner. The pledges made have laid a foundation that 
will be instrumental, if not in completely overcoming 
the  challenge  immediately,  at  least  in  mitigating  the 
panic that has begun to spread in the affected countries.
A  year  ago  from  this  rostrum  (see  A/68/PV.15), 
I  announced  that  my  country,  Mali,  had  rejoined  the 
community  of  free  and  democratic  nations,  with  the 
firm determination to write a new page in its history. 
I  also  announced  the  commencement  of  the  dialogue 
process  for  peace  and  national  reconciliation,  which 
we  initiated  in  accordance  with  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions and the Ouagadougou Preliminary 
Agreement,  signed  on  18  June  2013,  between  the 
Government and armed groups in northern Mali.
Since 
that  date, 
there  have  been  significant 
developments  of  a  political  and  security  nature 
relating to the restoration of the authority of the State, 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  the  development  of 
humanitarian  action,  the  execution  of  the  mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali  (MINUSMA),  and  the 
coordination of development activities and partnership 
with the international community. In that context, the 
Government  of  Mali  has  undertaken  a  wide  range  of 
actions, covering decentralization — that is to say, an 
even more radical devolution of powers previously held 
by the central Government — the promotion of national 
reconciliation  and  peaceful  coexistence,  development 
effectiveness  in  northern  Mali,  good  governance  and 
combating corruption and impunity.
strengthened  by 
The  momentum  was 
the 
Government’s organization of a series of meetings and 
opportunities for dialogue, including the Open Forum 
on  Decentralization  and  the  National  Conference 
on  Northern  Mali.  Those  meetings  enabled  all  the 
national stakeholders to come together, in an inclusive 
and  participatory  manner,  and  to  identify  structural 
weaknesses  in  our  political  and  institutional  systems, 
as  well  as  to  lay  the  foundations  for  new  democratic 
governance.  That  will  take  into  account  the  profound 
realities of our society, such as its ethnic and cultural 
diversity  and  the  strengths  that  have  enabled  the 
people  of  Mali  to  ensure  and  maintain,  throughout 
the  centuries  and  despite  all  the  vagaries  of  nature 
and  recurring  political  uncertainties, 
their  social 
cohesion, customary resilience and basic aspiration to 
a continuous improvement of their economic and social 
conditions.
Today, 
the 
international  community,  Algeria 
facilitating 
a  process  that  weaves  the  threads  of  an  inclusive 
inter-Malian  dialogue 
into  a  comprehensive  and 
permanent  peace.  We  thank  Algeria  for  all  its  efforts 
to  help  Mali.  We  hope  that  peace  will  be  sustainable 
and lasting and thus respond to the deepest aspirations 
of  our  people.  A  first  round  of  talks,  held  in  Algiers 
from 16 to 24 July, has led to the joint signing of a road 
map  on  the  basis  of  consensus  and  a  declaration  of 
cessation of hostilities in the northern regions of Mali. 
The  Government  and  the  armed  groups  in  northern 
Mali  have  since  then  continued  their  discussions  on 
what  is  called  the  second  phase.  Those  discussions 
should lead to deeper negotiations on a common vision 
for the future, to gradually provide lasting solutions to 
all the points of disagreement and start the final phase, 
before ending with a peace agreement that will finally 
be reached by the Malians themselves.
in  Algiers,  with 
the  support  of 
is 
I would like to once again thank the African Union, 
the Economic Community of West African States, the 
United Nations, the European Union, the Organization 
of 
Islamic  Cooperation,  Algeria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Mauritania,  the  Niger,  Nigeria,  France,  Switzerland 
and others, which I will not name but which deserve to 
be thanked for their tireless efforts for peace in Mali.
There are also other challenges to which we, as the 
international  community,  must  collectively  respond, 
4/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
especially  in  the  Sahel  region,  which  includes  Mali. 
The  terrorist  attacks  carried  out  in  Libya,  Nigeria, 
Kenya, Uganda, Tunisia and the Middle East, although 
geographically  spread  out,  in  fact  represent  the  same 
serious threat to international peace and security. Here 
I would like to pay a special tribute to the memory of 
the French hostage, Hervé Gourdel, who was recently 
murdered  in  such  a  cowardly  and  brutal  manner  in 
Algeria.  The  very  same  day,  that  same  barbarity  was 
illustrated in Mali, with the discovery of a decapitated 
head hung up in a village marketplace. It belonged to a 
former Malian soldier whose only crime was loyalty to 
Mali and its Government.
We  condemn  terrorism,  particularly  when  it  is 
carried  out  under  the  banner  of  religion.  Islam  has 
been  present  in  Mali  since  the  eleventh  century,  and 
it has been a tolerant and moderate Islam that is based 
on humanism, the acceptance of others and the right to 
differences. That has nothing to do with the Islam we 
are seeing today.
We  reiterate  our  profound  gratitude  to  all  those 
who  have  worked  for  a  return  to  peace  and  stability 
in  our  country.  On  behalf  of  the  grateful  nation  of 
Mali, we honour the memory of all the brave soldiers 
and civilians, from Mali and other friendly countries, 
who  have  sacrificed 
lives  fighting  against 
obscurantism, terrorism and violent extremism.
their 
The  2012  political  and  security  crises  in  Mali 
highlighted 
the  complex  and  multiple  challenges 
facing  all  countries  of  the  Sahel  in  terms  of  security, 
governance, 
the  protection  of  human  rights  and 
development.  Those  challenges  require  concerted  and 
diligent  efforts  by  the  international  community.  They 
should  be  met  with  a  comprehensive  approach  and 
targeted  mechanisms.  In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the 
adoption of the United Nations integrated strategy for 
the Sahel, which offers a comprehensive and coherent 
approach to finding lasting solutions to the threats and 
challenges that beset the Sahel.
The first ministerial meeting to establish a platform 
for coordinating the United Nations integrated strategy 
for the Sahel, held in Bamako on 5 November 2013, is 
part of that approach. After the meeting, the Ministers 
for Foreign Affairs charged with coordinating the Sahel 
countries agreed to hold meetings every six months with 
a rotating chairmanship, which has been entrusted, for 
the  first  two  years,  to  my  country,  Mali.  The  second 
meeting, also held in Bamako, on 16 May 2014, resulted 
in the adoption of the Malian chair’s road map, which 
focused  in  particular  on  coordinating  the  efforts  of 
partners and the national and regional ownership of the 
various initiatives and strategies for the Sahel.
As a final note on this subject, I thank the bilateral 
and multilateral partners and the financial institutions 
committed  to  supporting  the  implementation  of  the 
targeted  projects  and  programmes  within  the  United 
Nations integrated strategy for the Sahel. We also thank 
the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
Sahel, Ms. Hiroute Guebre Selassie, and Mr. Romano 
Prodi for his efforts to reconcile the various points of 
view and to support Mali at the international level.
Mali  remains  firmly  committed  to  the  ideals  of 
peace and stability, both within and outside its borders. 
I  therefore  welcome  the  progress  achieved  in  terms 
of  reconstruction  and  national  reconciliation  in  the 
brotherly  country  of  Guinea-Bissau.  The  successful 
holding  of  presidential  and  parliamentary  elections 
bolsters  the  restoration  of  constitutional  order  in  that 
brotherly country.
Regarding  the  Central  African  Republic,  Mali  is 
deeply concerned about the deteriorating humanitarian 
situation there, and expresses its support for the United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic.  We  hope 
its rapid deployment will put an end to the escalating 
violence  and  thus  protect  civilian  populations  in  that 
brotherly country.
With respect to the Middle East, we are following 
with great concern the developments in Syria, Lebanon 
and  Iraq,  where  the  offensives  of  the  terrorist  group 
called the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant threaten 
the sovereignty of that country and the stability of the 
entire  region.  To  the  Palestinian  people,  we  express 
our  solidarity  in  action  and  continue  to  work  for 
the  implementation  of  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions.
Mali remains firmly committed to the fight against 
the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and 
the eradication of the illicit trade in such weapons. To 
be effective, that fight must be make use of the relevant 
synergies. The consultation and cooperation framework 
at  the  regional  and  international  levels  offers  such 
an  opportunity.  Similarly,  the  Government  of  Mali 
deplores  the  erosion  of  multilateralism  in  the  area  of 
disarmament,  in  particular  the  prolonged  paralysis 
in  the  United  Nations  Disarmament  Commission. 
However,  we  welcome  the  adoption  by  the  General 
14-55126
5/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
Assembly, on 2 April 2013, of the Arms Trade Treaty 
(resolution 67/234), as it represents true progress in that 
area.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
We note that the intergovernmental negotiations on 
the reform of the Security Council have been ongoing 
for  two  decades  already.  The  main  issues  seem  to 
be  the  categories  of  membership,  the  question  of  the 
veto,  regional  representation,  enlargement  of 
the 
membership,  the  Council’s  working  methods  and  its 
relations with the General Assembly. It seems to us that 
all  Member  States  are  now  convinced  of  the  need  for 
a  reform  of  the  institutional  framework  of  the  United 
Nations in order to strengthen its legitimacy and ensure 
its effectiveness.
However,  no  significant  progress  has  been  made 
in  the  specific  case  of  the  Security  Council,  despite 
repeated  calls  from  this  same  rostrum  and  multiple 
meetings  on  the  issue.  Africa,  despite  the  fact  that  it 
represents 53 of the 193 States Members of the United 
Nations  today,  remains  the  only  continent  that  does 
not  have  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council.
This situation is at odds with the values of equality and 
justice that are the ideals espoused by our Organization.
Africa  came  up  with  and  submitted  a  Common 
Position that was agreed on at Ezulwini, reaffirmed in 
Sirte and subsequently confirmed during several other 
summits.  This  proposal,  a  fair  and  realistic  solution, 
calls for granting the African continent two permanent 
seats with the right of veto and five other non-permanent 
seats.  It  seems  to  us  that  the  Council,  thus  reformed, 
would better reflect the geopolitical realities of today’s 
world, and the historic injustice done to Africa would 
be repaired.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  recall  that  we  are  all 
gathered  here  at  the  United  Nations  for  the  sake  of 
an  ideal  and  because  of  a  universal  desire  for  peace, 
justice  and  freedom.  Millions  of  people  around  the 
globe  expect  the  United  Nations  to  deliver  peace, 
security, development and international solidarity. We 
have no right to disappoint them. As a community of 
nations,  we  have  the  duty  and  the  means  to  succeed 
through  collective  awareness  and  the  preservation  of 
our common values. That is the price of guaranteeing 
future generations a sustainable development that would 
protect them from the scourge of war and deprivation.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Mali for 
the statement he has just made.
Address by Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the 
Republic of South Sudan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of South Sudan.
Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic of South 
Sudan,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic of 
South Sudan, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kiir: I congratulate you, Mr. President, 
your  country,  Uganda,  and  the  African  continent  on 
your election to the presidency of the Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth  session.  My  delegation  and  I  pledge  our 
full  support  to  you,  Sir,  in  this  important  mission.  I 
also  wish  to  congratulate  Ambassador  John  Ashe  for 
successfully completing his term.
We  are  all  bound  by  our  moral  duty  and  legal 
obligations  to  address  the  challenges  confronting  the 
world  today.  We  need  to  act  in  solidarity  to  promote 
global peace and security for the good of our nations. 
In this context, I urge the United Nations and all Heads 
of State and Government to support the current peace 
initiatives in the world, especially those in the Middle 
East, the Central African Republic, Somalia, Mali, the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan.  We  need  to  find  appropriate  ways 
and  means  to  end  these  conflicts  and  many  others  in 
the world, and to pave the way for all the nations and 
peoples of the world to live in peace and to enjoy their 
basic rights.
In  addition,  the  Security  Council  needs  to  be 
strengthened  to  deal  with  new  global  challenges. 
Therefore,  we  support  the  call  of  the  African  leaders 
for  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  Security  Council 
to ensure that Africa and the other continents are well 
represented  in  this  important  international  body,  in 
accordance with the African position as stipulated by 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  Sirte  Declaration.  This 
will  create  a  more  inclusive  Security  Council  and 
empower all the continents to play a greater and more 
effective  role  in  promoting  global  peace  and  security 
6/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
for the benefit of the human race. More importantly, it 
will ensure that the Security Council continues to fulfil 
its purpose and be more able to achieve its mandate.
independence  and 
The  journey  of  my  people  from  conflict  to 
peace, 
freedom  was  costly. 
It  was  characterized  by  economic  and  political 
marginalization,  a  prolonged  war,  humanitarian 
disasters, the loss of millions of lives and untold human 
suffering. At independence, we acquired a country with 
a multitude of challenges, ranging from weak national 
institutions  and  inadequate  physical  infrastructure  to 
limited human capacity and weak security mechanisms. 
We  are  grateful  the  international  community  for  its 
support and for continuing to provide humanitarian and 
development assistance.
I  have  no  doubt  that  the  world  has  followed  with 
shock  and  disbelief  the  violent  conflict  that  erupted 
in South Sudan on Sunday, 15 December 2013, which 
was plotted by my former Vice-President, who wanted 
to  seize  power  by  force.  He  was  too  impatient  in  his 
thirst for power. He did not want to wait for the general 
elections scheduled to take place in 2015, when he could 
have sought a mandate from the people of South Sudan, 
as required by our transitional Constitution. The failed 
coup and the ensuing rebellion resulted in the loss of 
many  innocent  lives,  the  destruction  of  property  and 
damaged community relationships. However, the coup 
was foiled, and the Government is continuing to defend 
the country and the people against the rebellion.
The  Government  and  the  people  of  South  Sudan 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  United  Nations, 
the  African  Union,  the  Intergovernmental  Authority 
for  Development  (IGAD)  and  the  entire  international 
community for their prompt action to restore peace and 
stability in my country. My Government is unwaveringly 
committed to resolving the conflict peacefully, and my 
negotiating  team  has  been  in  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopia, 
since  January,  talking  with  the  rebels  about  peace, 
in  order  to  close  a  dark  chapter  in  the  history  of  our 
young  country  and,  on  a  new  page,  to  pave  the  way 
for us once again to embark on the difficult mission of 
socioeconomic development, which our people urgently 
need.
With  the  dedicated  efforts  of  the  mediators, 
we  were  able  to  sign  an  agreement  on  cessation  of 
hostilities  between  the  Government  of  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan  and  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation 
Movement/Army  in  Opposition  on  23  January  and  to 
reaffirm our commitment to the agreement on 9 May. 
My Government has demonstrated its firm commitment 
to peace, has unreservedly honoured those agreements 
and  is  continuing  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  to  find  a 
peaceful  solution  to  the  conflict.  However,  the  rebels 
have violated the agreements too many times and have 
refused  to  sign  the  Protocol  Agreement,  which  is  a 
crucially  important  document  signed  by  the  Heads 
of  State  and  Government  of  IGAD,  including  myself 
as  a  party  to  the  conflict.  That  important  document 
forms  the  basis  for  resolving  the  crisis  peacefully 
and  inclusively.  Therefore,  I  urge  the  international 
community to prevail on the rebels to sign the Protocol 
Agreement.
We  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  international 
community is rightly concerned about the humanitarian 
crisis  and  human  rights  abuses  that  resulted  from 
the  failed  coup  and  the  rebellion.  In  that  regard,  my 
Government  has  ordered  an  investigation  into  those 
abuses  and  has  also  accepted  to  cooperate  with  the 
Commission of Inquiry formed by the African Union to 
carry out investigations into allegations of human rights 
violations.  We  are  determined  to  hold  accountable 
those who are found responsible, as we do not condone 
impunity under any circumstances.
the  Convention  on 
My Government recently signed into law provisions 
to guarantee freedom of expression in the media. It has 
also  ratified  three  United  Nations  core  conventions, 
namely, 
the  Elimination  of 
All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women;  the 
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman 
or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment  and  its  first 
Optional  Protocol;  and  the  Convention  on  the  Rights 
of the Child, the Optional Protocol on the involvement 
of children in armed conflict and the Optional Protocol 
on  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution  and  child 
pornography.  Those  are  all  positive  measures  put  in 
place to address some of the concerns.
The  conflict  in  South  Sudan  is  purely  a  political 
struggle  for  power  and  not  an  ethnic  conflict,  as  has 
been reported. The citizens displaced by the conflict, 
especially  in  the  three  states  of  Jonglei,  Unity  and 
Upper  Nile,  have  sought  refuge  in  the  neighbouring 
states of Lakes, Warrap, Central Equatoria and Eastern 
Equatoria  and 
in  neighbouring  countries.  Those 
innocent  victims  of  the  conflict  urgently  need  and 
deserve  humanitarian  assistance.  We  therefore  thank 
the  United  Nations,  the  Government  of  Norway  and 
the  stakeholders  for  organizing  the  donor  conference 
in Oslo, Norway, in May to support our humanitarian 
14-55126
7/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
needs.  We  also  deeply  appreciate  and  welcome  the 
high-level ministerial meeting on South Sudan that the 
United Nations organized on 25 September as a sideline 
event of the sixty-ninth session of the Assembly, during 
which  a  number  of  donors  made  pledges  of  support. 
My  Government  is  fully  committed  to  providing 
humanitarian  access  and  has  taken  the  necessary 
measures to facilitate access for humanitarian agencies.
The  conflicts  within  our  two  countries  of  South 
Sudan  and  the  Sudan  tend  to  be  interconnected. 
That  is  why  we  in  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  will 
exert  increased  efforts  to  strengthen  relations  with 
the  Republic  of  the  Sudan.  Our  oil  flows  through  the 
territory  of  the  Sudan.  In  the  spirit  of  cooperation, 
my  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation will soon commence more joint visits with 
his Sudanese counterpart to donor countries to appeal 
and lobby for lifting and waiving the Sudan’s foreign 
debt,  as  was  agreed  in  the  Cooperation  Agreement 
between the Republic of the Sudan and the Republic of 
South  Sudan.  There  are  outstanding  issues  associated 
with  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  especially 
the final status of Abyei. The Republic of South Sudan 
and  the  Sudan  are  working  through  those  issues  with 
the  members  of  the  the  African  Union  High-level 
Implementation  Panel  mediation  team  and  our  other 
partners to find an amicable, peaceful solution with the 
Sudan. 1 am committed to addressing those outstanding 
issues, and I am in direct communication with President 
Omer  Al-Bashir  of  the  Sudan  to  resolve  those  issues 
through dialogue.
Furthermore,  my  Government  and  the  people  of 
South  Sudan  would  like  to  state  our  appreciation  and 
thanks to the countries that have expressed support for 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict  in  my  country, 
especially the United States of America, China, Egypt, 
South  Africa,  the  Sudan,  Kenya,  Uganda,  Ethiopia, 
Norway, the Congo and Namibia, together with many 
others.
My  Government  is  collaborating  with  the  United 
Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) and other 
stakeholders,  such  as  community  leaders,  political 
parties,  civil  societies  and  faith-based  organizations, 
to build trust with the internally displaced persons in 
UNMISS camps and to encourage them to return to their 
homes  and  their  pre-conflict  areas  and  resume  their 
normal  livelihoods.  With  respect  to  our  cooperation 
with UNMISS, my Government would like to express 
its concern regarding the latest mandate of UNMISS, 
which has very serious implications for service delivery 
to my people. I note in particular that the new mandate 
does  not  allow  UNMISS  to  respond  to  requests  from 
national,  state  and  local  partners  for  assistance  in 
important activities connected with capacity-building, 
peacebuilding,  disarmament,  demobilization 
and 
reintegration,  security  sector  reform,  recovery  and 
development.
Notwithstanding the fact that the activities I have 
just mentioned are of paramount importance to South 
Sudan, we strongly believe that the main objective of 
UNMISS  is  to  support  peace  and  reconciliation  first 
and foremost. We humbly request the Security Council 
to reconsider its decision when the UNMISS mandate 
comes  up  for  renewal  in  November.  Also,  we  would 
further  urge  UNMISS  to  engage  in  reorientation 
of  its  activities  relating  to  the  mandate  of  protecting 
civilians  and  to  shift  from  protection-by-presence  to 
protection-by-action.  This  is  very  important  because 
the presence of troops that do not move does nothing to 
save the civilian population. It is vital that they become 
active.  They  must  also  encourage  those  in  UNMISS 
camps  to  return  to  their  homes.  UNMISS  needs  to 
protect  the  civilians  in  their  neighbourhoods,  not  in 
camps, because ours is a huge country — larger than 
France.
implementing  a 
The  theme  of  the  current  session  is  “Delivering 
transformative  post-2015 
on  and 
development agenda”. It is no surprise that the Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  as  a  three-year-old  country  facing 
numerous challenges, will not achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  commend  the  Secretary-
General  and  the  Working  Group  for  coordinating 
the  discussions  on  the  17  sustainable  development 
goals  (SDGs),  which  will  form  the  post-2015  global 
development  agenda.  It  is  vital  that  the  SDGs  focus 
nations’  efforts  on  reducing  poverty;  ending  hunger 
and  achieving  food  security;  addressing  our  health 
concerns,  especially  those  issues  affecting  women 
and  children;  promoting  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls;  addressing  the 
issues of access, equity and quality of education; and 
tackling youth unemployment.
We firmly believe that the attainment of the SDGs 
will require strong, sustained partnership, collaboration 
and  coordination  at  the  international,  regional  and 
national levels, and leadership from the United Nations. 
For our part, we will spare no effort and will work in 
conjunction with the international community and our 
8/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
partners in the New Deal, as a fragile State member of 
the Group of Seven Plus, to attain the new development 
goals.
Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic of South 
Sudan,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
solidarity  and  support  to  the  victims  of  Ebola  in  the 
greater  West  Africa  region,  particularly  in  Liberia, 
Guinea and Sierra Leone. We acknowledge the leading 
role  of  the  United  States  of  America  in  assisting  the 
continent to combat the virus. It is vital that the SDGs 
address such global health threats.
The  Republic  of  South  Sudan  strongly  condemns 
all  forms  of  terrorism,  including  piracy,  which  has 
become a menace to international peace and security.
Climate change is now recognized as a major global 
threat  —  a  threat  that  could  wipe  out  planet  Earth 
and the entire human race. I commend the Secretary-
General  for  convening  the  recent  climate  summit  to 
focus  attention  on  this  global  problem,  and  I  urge  all 
the  members  of  the  Assembly  to  heed  the  call  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  take  bold  action.  I  am  pleased 
that  the  SDGs  cover  environmental  issues  of  concern 
to the international community, and I hope the climate 
summit to be held in Paris in December 2015 will result 
in an agreement on a new global legal framework for 
tackling climate change. We must win the race against 
the clock to save our planet and humankind before it is 
too late. To echo Ms. Graça Machel, tackling climate 
change requires leadership, courage and ambition from 
all of us. Let us act in solidarity to create the future we 
want.
Finally, Sir, I reiterate my resolve to restore peace 
to  the  people  of  South  Sudan,  to  fully  implement  the 
cooperation  agreements  with  the  Republic  of  the 
Sudan, to provide unrestricted support to humanitarian 
assistance, 
to  respect  human  rights  and  ensure 
democratic governance in my country, and to strengthen 
working relations with UNMISS and all the members 
of the international community without exception. We 
will work in unison to establish a safe, secure, peaceful 
and prosperous South Sudan.
We are all one in this world — whether strong or 
weak, rich or poor. Let us therefore stick together.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of South 
Sudan for the statement he has just made.
Address by Her Excellency Ms. Catherine 
Samba-Panza, President of the Transitional 
Government of the Central African Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Transitional Government 
of the Central African Republic.
Ms.  Catherine  Samba-Panza,  President  of 
the 
Transitional  Government  of  the  Central  African 
Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Catherine  Samba-Panza,  President  of 
the  Transitional  Government  of  the  Central  African 
Republic, and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Samba-Panza  (spoke  in  French):  It  is 
an  honour  and  a  legitimate  source  of  pride  for  me  to 
speak from this rostrum on behalf of my country, the 
Central African Republic, on the occasion of the sixty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  our  shared 
Organization.
I  would  like  first  to  address,  on  behalf  of  the 
delegation  that  is  accompanying  me  and  in  my  own 
name,  my  warm  congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uganda, 
for  his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  My  congratulations  also  go 
to Mr. John Ashe, who successfully presided over the 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, during which the 
situation  in  my  country  was  widely  debated  and  was 
subject to numerous resolutions of the Security Council.
I would especially like to express all my gratitude 
and that of the people of the Central African Republic 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  dynamism 
and commitment to my country, a commitment that was 
embodied in his April visit to Bangui.
It is also especially important for me to solemnly 
address members in this Hall to express the profound 
gratitude  of  the  Central  African  people  for  the 
international  community’s  unwavering  and  tireless 
commitment to my country in distress. That recognition 
goes especially to the Heads of State of the Economic 
and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC), 
14-55126
9/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States 
(ECCAS),  the  African  Union,  European  Union,  and 
the  countries  of  the  International  Mediation  under 
the  leadership  of  President  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso  of 
the  Republic  of  the  Congo.  It  also  extends  to  France 
and  its  President  for  their  dogged  determination,  and 
to  the  United  States  of  America  and  members  of  the 
International  Contact  Group  on  the  Central  African 
Republic for their renewed and unflagging support for 
the transition authorities in my country.
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic 
(MINUSCA), which was a strong response on the part 
of the international community to the Central African 
crisis  and  which  led,  on  15  September,  to  the  final 
transfer of authority from the African-led International 
Support  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  to 
MINUSCA. I want to thank all States that have made 
their  troops,  materiel  and  financial  contributions 
available to the Mission.
The  sixty-ninth  session  is  being  held  at  a  time 
when  my  country  is  still  experiencing  a  worrying 
humanitarian,  security  and  economic  situation  that 
challenges  all  of  us  as  members  of  the  international 
community.  The  political  instability  and  internal 
conflicts  that  have  been  recurring  for  more  than  two 
decades have plunged the Central African Republic into 
a  situation  of  extreme  vulnerability.  Since  December 
2012, the Central African Republic has been shaken by 
one of the worst crises in its history, which has left the 
Central African people in a dramatic situation.
Following  the  resignation  of  my  predecessor  on 
10  January,  I  responded  to  the  distressed  calls  of  the 
people of the Central African Republic. My election has 
raised great hopes among the people of my country, who 
welcomed the election of the first woman President of 
the Central African Republic as a sign of a break with 
the past and the start of a new future. Since then I have 
felt the weight of the responsibility that has befallen me 
and taken stock of the situation that I had inherited.
With  determination,  I 
immediately  embarked 
upon  dealing  with  the  situation,  with  the  support 
of  the  international  community,  in  accordance  with 
the  road  map  for  the  transition,  whose  main  axes  are 
the  restoration  of  security  and  peace,  the  resolution 
of  the  serious  humanitarian  crisis,  the  recovery  of 
State  authority  throughout  the  national  territory,  the 
relaunching of economic activities, and, of course, the 
holding  of  free,  transparent  and  democratic  elections. 
Today,  I  rejoice  that  my  calls  to  the  international 
community  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  transition 
have not remained unanswered; we have been offered 
multifaceted  support,  thanks  to  which  the  worst  was 
avoided in my country.
security 
Those combined efforts have resulted in noticeable 
progress  on 
issues  and  humanitarian, 
economic and political matters. In terms of security, I 
welcome the Security Council’s adoption of resolution 
2149  (2014)  on  10  April,  authorizing  the  deployment 
We  have  placed  high  hopes  in  the  deployment  of 
the  Mission,  which  should  contribute  effectively  and 
efficiently to securing the country’s path to peace and 
sustainable  development.  The  fact  remains,  however, 
that the success of the Mission will also depend on the 
close involvement of the national security and defence 
forces, which can provide support to the Mission based 
on their knowledge of the terrain.
to  reconsider 
I  would  ask  the  Sanctions  Committee  to  show 
great  understanding  and 
the  arms 
embargo  imposed  on  the  Central  African  Republic. 
At  the  same  time,  it  is  also  urgent  to  go  beyond  the 
Brazzaville  forum,  which  resulted  in  the  signing  of 
an  agreement  to  cease  hostilities  and  opened  the  way 
for  the  disarmament  of  all  armed  groups,  the  reform 
of the defence and security sectors, and especially the 
implementation  of  the  disarmament,  demobilization 
and  reintegration  programme.  In  those  areas,  too,  we 
will  need  substantial  backing  from  the  international 
community.
In  the  humanitarian  field,  efforts  have  been 
ongoing since January. To date, the number of internally 
displaced persons has dropped from 900,000 to 175,000 
people, which means that 81 per cent of the internally 
displaced  persons  have  left  makeshift  sites  to  return 
to  their  communities.  Despite  the  improvements,  the 
humanitarian  situation  remains  worrying  in  general, 
since it is dependent on the fragile security situation, 
particularly in the countryside.
Efforts should be focused on the return of 400,000 
refugees now in neighbouring countries. Similarly, the 
resources  mobilized  so  far  cover  only  48  per  cent  of 
the  expressed  humanitarian  need.  In  that  respect,  we 
expect  other  disbursements  to  support  the  return  of 
displaced and exiled persons to their homes.
With  regard  to  the  economy,  the  Central  African 
Republic’s  economy  has  been  hit  hard  by  the  deep 
crisis. As a result, the growth rate of the country fell 
10/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
to  minus  36  per  cent  in  2013,  placing  the  country  in 
sudden deep recession. Thanks to active diplomacy, the 
Central African Republic has benefited from emergency 
budgetary support for CEMAC and ECCAS countries, 
an  agreement  signed  with  the  International  Monetary 
Fund for the conclusion of a programme for the rapid 
disbursement  of  credits  and  budgetary  support  from 
the  World  Bank,  the  African  Development  Bank  and 
the European Union, as well as agreements signed with 
France for budget support. Beyond the announcements 
that  have  been  made,  the  effective  disbursement 
of  those  funds  will  boost  our  country’s  economic 
activities and set it on a path of growth. The emergency 
plan  for  sustainable  reconstruction  was  designed  to 
effectively respond to the economic crisis, and one of 
our expectations vis-à-vis the international community 
is that we should be given all the necessary support for 
the effective implementation of that plan.
In order to promote political dialogue and national 
reconciliation and help Central Africans to live better 
with one another, I have always focused on pacifying 
hearts  and  minds  so  as  to  achieve  genuine  national 
reconciliation. The first step was taken in Brazzaville 
on  23  July.  It  is  now  time  to  continue  the  process  in 
the  Central  African  Republic  itself,  by  providing  our 
people with an opportunity to assess the situation of the 
country themselves and share their vision for the future 
of the country, and by bringing together all the parties 
to the crisis around a table to consider a new republican 
pact  to  recast  the  Central  African  State.  The  Central 
African Republic cherishes the ardent wish that special 
attention will be given to the political process, whose 
success  will  depend  on  the  resources  available  for  its 
implementation.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  relevance  of  the 
theme that was chosen for this session of the General 
Assembly.  That  theme  should  lead  us  to  take  stock 
of  the  achievements  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and of emerging challenges. It comes at the right 
time,  because  our  world  continues  to  be  shaken  by 
crises of all types in Africa, the Middle and Near East, 
Asia,  Eastern  Europe  and  Latin  America.  The  Ebola 
virus  disease,  which  is  raging  throughout  the  West 
African region with the risk of expanding beyond the 
region, is another current challenge that has large-scale, 
adverse  economic  and  humanitarian  consequences  in 
many  countries.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  extend,  from  this  high  rostrum,  my  most  heartfelt 
condolences  and  those  of  the  people  of  the  Central 
African Republic to our brotherly countries in Africa 
affected  by  that  scourge,  which  has  claimed  so  many 
lives.
I  also  extend  my  condolences  and  those  of  the 
Central  African  people  to  French  President  François 
Hollande  and  the  French  people  for  the  dastardly 
murder of Hervé Gourdel, which has upset us all. That 
cowardly  murder  is  a  timely  reminder  of  the  need  to 
step  up  our  fight  against  terrorism,  which  remains  a 
major  threat  to  our  planet  and  a  real  obstacle  to  the 
promotion  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
Central African Republic calls for greater mobilization 
by the international community against terrorism, and 
in  particular  against  the  Boko  Haram  sect  operating 
in Nigeria and Cameroon, not far from the borders of 
my  country  and  against  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army, 
which  continues  to  rage  throughout  the  territory  of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  some 
neighbouring countries.
Similarly, the Central African Republic opposes the 
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which 
continue to be traded illicitly and continue to fuel the 
worst  conflicts  throughout  the  world,  particularly  in 
Africa.  The  Central  African  Republic  welcomes  the 
efforts undertaken to achieve the signing of the Arms 
Trade  Treaty  and  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  2117  (2013)  on  the  non-proliferation  of 
small arms and light weapons, and we are awaiting the 
effective implementation of that resolution.
Related to situations of war is the issue of justice 
and human rights. I am strongly committed to fighting 
impunity. The Central African Republic, as a party to 
the Rome Statute, will continue to support the actions 
of the International Criminal Court in its fight against 
impunity for the most serious crimes, which affect the 
entire  international  community,  and  especially  my 
country. In that context, the Central African Republic 
supports  the  initiative  taken  by  France  and  Mexico 
to  cut  back  on  the  abusive  use  of  the  right  of  veto  in 
the  Security  Council  in  cases  involving  massacres  of 
civilian populations, war crimes and genocide.
My country had been committed to achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  to  that  end  has 
developed a poverty-reduction strategy paper that has 
been  implemented  with  tangible  results,  including  in 
the areas of water, sanitation and education. That was 
the case until the most recent crisis unfortunately came 
about, which called everything into question. I should 
also  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  international 
community to landlocked States like mine and to call 
14-55126
11/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
for  international  solidarity  to  ensure  that  substantial 
assistance  be  granted  to  them  in  order  to  ease  the 
burden associated with our economic vulnerability and 
facilitate the implementation of the Almaty Programme 
of Action.
I  commend 
the  efforts  undertaken  by 
the 
international community to stem climate change and its 
negative impact on the world. I strongly encourage all 
countries to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol and to incorporate the principles of the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
into the new agreement to be adopted at Paris in 2015.
The  Central  African  Republic  is  against  any  and 
all  attempts  in  favour  of  partition  and  threats  against 
the territorial integrity of nations. As such, it supports 
the position of the Kingdom of Morocco on the Sahara 
issue,  which  is  in  accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions 1754 (2007) and 2152 (2014).
I cannot conclude without paying a heartfelt tribute 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  to  promote  peace 
throughout  the  world.  In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to 
express,  above  all,  my  pride  at  the  courage  and  great 
resilience  of  the  Central  African  people  and  their 
determination to rise up from the recurrent crises that 
have inflicted untold suffering on them. Long live the 
United  Nations!  Long  live  international  solidarity  to 
ensure that peace and security prevails throughout the 
world!
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Transitional 
Government  of  the  Central  African  Republic  for  the 
statement she has just made.
Ms.  Catherine  Samba-Panza,  President  of  the 
Transitional  Government  of  the  Central  African 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Prosper Bazombanza, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi.
Mr.  Prosper  Bazombanza,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Burundi, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 
in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Prosper  Bazombanza, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Bazombanza  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French): 
On  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Nkurunziza, 
President of Burundi, and the people of Burundi as a 
whole, I would first like to offer warm congratulations 
to you, Sam Kutesa, a son of Africa, for your election 
by acclamation on 11 June as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  current  session.  I  would  also  like  to 
acknowledge  the  remarkable  work  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  John  Ashe,  who  presided  over  the  Assembly  at 
its sixty-eighth session, which he closed in this newly 
renovated Hall. And I take this opportunity to reiterate 
our  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  untiring  efforts  to  improve  the  functioning 
of  the  Organization  and  for  the  results  attained  in  a 
particularly difficult socioeconomic context.
At this important moment, when delegations from 
many different parts of the globe have come together, 
we  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the 
theme  of  the  sixty-ninth  session,  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”.  It  comes  at  just  the  right  time,  since  we  are 
slowly  but  surely  and  inexorably  approaching  the 
deadline  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs).
Beyond  that,  I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the 
priorities  that  you  have  already  set,  Mr.  President, 
which  focus  on  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger  and 
promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth. 
As  the  authors  of  the  report  of  the  high-level  group 
established  to  make  recommendations  on  the  post-
2015 development programme put it, the theme chosen 
and  your  priorities  are  simultaneously  ambitious  and 
pragmatic. The report cites intense discussions in every 
region and in many sectors, especially on those living 
in  poverty.  The  same  team  fosters  the  hope  that  our 
generation will be able to produce the transformations 
needed to end the poverty that is devastating people all 
over our planet.
We  should  therefore  emphasize  that  however 
ambitious  the  group’s  recommendations  may  be,  they 
should also take into account the realities on the ground 
and the fact that the transformative changes linked to 
the  goals  and  indicative  targets  —  those  coming  out 
of  discussions  with  5,000  civil  society  organizations, 
250 leaders of major businesses and the scientific and 
12/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
academic  communities,  along  with  national,  regional 
and  international  consultations  —  can  contribute 
to  reducing  hunger  and  poverty  around  the  world  by 
generating  tangible  economic  growth  that  can  be 
equitably shared in order to achieve the well-being we 
seek.
The Millennium Development Goals were a pact of 
global socioeconomic solidarity for our countries. Like 
other  nations  in  Africa  and  elsewhere,  Burundi  has 
great  respect  for  those  Goals.  As  the  aforementioned 
group has rightly pointed out, the fastest reduction in 
poverty in the history of the world occurred during the 
first 13 years of the new millennium. The same group 
notes that the number of people living on $1.25 a day 
has fallen, and child mortality has declined by 30 per 
cent since the 2000 Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2),  while  deaths  attributable  to  malaria  have  been 
reduced by one quarter.
While  we  should  note  that  not  every  country  can 
boast the same progress, Burundi shares the belief that 
it would be wrong for us to abandon the MDGs and start 
over at zero. On the contrary, we should continue the 
reforms that have produced the unprecedented progress, 
which is unquestionably the result of improved policies 
and commitment on a global scale aimed at meeting the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  should  therefore 
capitalize  on  them  in  order  to  profit  further.  We  also 
subscribe  to  the  other  declared  priorities,  including 
the  adoption  of  a  post-2015  development  agenda,  the 
strengthening of cooperation and reforming the United 
Nations, as well as strengthening partnerships between 
the United Nations and other bodies.
Although at the moment it seems clear that Burundi 
will not be able to fully meet the established Goals, I 
should point out that we have made undeniable progress 
in the areas of education and health, thanks in particular 
to our programmes of free education and medical care 
for  children  under  five  and  new  mothers.  Besides  the 
3,000 classrooms and many health centres built over the 
past few years, we have seen positive results in other 
sectors, too.
sixty-eighth  session,  as  well  as  of  the  reduction  of 
deaths due to malaria.
On the political front, as we indicated in our address 
to the Assembly at the sixty-eighth session, Burundi has 
been working on the process we committed to months 
ago  for  holding  presidential  and  general  elections, 
scheduled  to  begin  in  May  2015.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
important  to  note  that  after  the  holding  of  successive 
elections  in  2005  and  2010,  with  support  from  the 
United Nations and other partners, the entire political 
class,  through  the  leaders  of  the  authorized  political 
parties  and  other  parties,  agreed  in  March  2013  on  a 
road map for the next elections.
In  that  regard,  one  must  add  that,  thanks  to 
that  extremely  valuable  instrument,  which  should 
help  the  Burundian  political  parties  in  the  holding 
of  transparent,  free  and  democratic  elections,  the 
Burundian  Parliament  adopted  the  electoral  code  by 
consensus. Subsequently, the Head of State promulgated 
it, as prescribed by our Constitution, which is the fruit 
of  the  Arusha  Agreement  of  2000,  to  which  Burundi 
attaches  great  importance.  Moreover,  the  electoral 
calendar was announced last June by the Independent 
National Electoral Commission, itself established after 
consultations and agreement among the political parties 
involved in the matter.
We  can  therefore  say  that  things  are  moving 
and  progressing  well  in  my  country.  I  also  wish  to 
reaffirm  loud  and  clear  what  the  Head  of  State,  His 
Excellency  Pierre  Nkurunziza,  often  reiterates,  that 
the 2015 elections will be held in better conditions than 
previous  elections  and  that  success  will  be  complete. 
The Burundian people have suffered so much from the 
violence that has plunged many families into mourning 
that we cannot afford to relapse into the errors of the 
past.  Indeed,  we  made  the  firm  commitment  to  bury 
the hatchet once and for all. That is why we have made 
our own the words of former Indian politician Mahatma 
Gandhi: “I object to violence because when it appears 
to do good, the good is only temporary; the evil it does 
is permanent”.
In the area of education, many young Burundians, 
including girls, who had no access to schooling in the 
past are now attending school. In the area of health care, 
we have reduced child and maternal mortality, and we 
are working on stabilizing the prevalence of HIV/AIDS 
and meeting the eligibility requirements for the Global 
Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  We 
delivered  accounts  of  those  efforts  at  the  Assembly’s 
With  regard  to  good  governance,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  return  to  the  institutions  established 
during  the  current  legislature  session.  The  tools  for 
improving  good  governance  include  the  National 
Independent  Human  Rights  Commmission  and  the 
institution  of  the  Ombudsman,  whose  performance  is 
deemed  satisfactory  by  many  of  our  compatriots.  A 
national strategy on good governance and on the fight 
14-55126
13/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
against poverty for 2011-2015 has been adopted and is 
being implemented.
Of course, we are far from achieving the expected 
results,  but  in  Burundi  and  elsewhere  it  is  a  long-
term  undertaking.  What  is  important  is  that  there 
is  the  political  will  to  always  move  forward  and 
meet  the  challenge  of  zero  tolerance  in  this  area 
eventually.  In  addition,  performance  contracts  have 
been signed by members of the Government and by the 
senior  Government  officials  in  order  to  improve  the 
functioning of our Administration. The establishment 
of the Burundi Revenue Authority has improved State 
revenues and reduced corruption, which was also once a 
common practice in our tax administration and business 
circles. Here too, one must point out that perfection is 
not yet at hand, but there is the determination and the 
will to resolve the scourge of corruption for good.
As  for  the  Truth  and  Reconсiliation  Commission 
envisaged  by  the  Arusha  Peace  and  Reconciliation 
Accord,  the  relevant  law  has  already  been  passed  by 
Parliament.  Consultations  are  under  way  to  elect  its 
11 commissioners, on the understanding that the filing 
of nominations was closed in July 2014, and an ad hoc 
committee for the selection of candidates has just been 
set up by general consensus.
Concerning the participation of women in political 
life,  we  have  strengthened  the  number  of  women  in 
the  country’s  institutions,  even  going  beyond  the 
constitutional  provisions  in  that  area.  The  Burundian 
delegation  provided  the  figures  in  its  statement  last 
year.
With  respect  to  the  peacebuilding  programme  in 
Burundi,  the  coordination  mechanisms,  such  as  the 
coordination  group  of  partners,  hold  their  meetings 
through  appropriate  structures,  such  as  clusters, 
strategic forums and policy forums. The same is true 
for  the  coordination  of  assistance,  for  which  Burundi 
adopted the same structures.
The  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Office  in 
Burundi will end on 31 December, and the Office will 
transfer its responsibilities to a United Nations country 
team  in  Burundi,  preparations  for  which  are  in  full 
swing. A joint transition programme was presented to 
the appropriate body on 14 May in the United Nations 
Office. Also, a joint steering committee and a technical 
transition  team  were  established  and  are  functioning 
according to their mandate.
Finally, also in the context of peace consolidation, 
a third phase of that programme, coverning the period 
2014 to 2016, will soon become operational. The themes 
of  the  programme  have  already  been  adopted  by  the 
relevant authorities.
On  the  economic  front,  Burundi  has  held  two 
sectoral  conferences  on  priority  areas,  one  in  July 
2013  and  the  other  in  October.  Their  purpose  was  to 
decide,  together  with  bilateral  partners,  on  ways  and 
means  to  implement  the  commitments  made  by  each 
at  the  conference  of  Burundi’s  development  partners 
held  in  Geneva  in  October  2012.  The  areas  deemed 
priorities were drawn from two strategic instruments: 
the Burundi Vision 2025 and the Strategic Framework 
for  Growth  and  the  Fight  against  Corruption,  Second 
Generation.
The first instrument is for long-term development 
planning  and  projects  Burundi’s  image  in  2025.  It 
should  guide  policies  and  strategies  for  sustainable 
development  from  the  perspective  of  meeting  the 
needs  of  present  generations  without  hampering 
or  compromising  future  generations.  The  second 
instrument  —  the  Strategic  Framework  for  Growth 
and the Fight against Poverty, Second Generation — is 
anchored in Vision 2025. It is the unifying framework 
for all sectoral and multisectoral policies, breaking the 
strategic pillars of the Vision Burundi 2025 down into 
projects and programmes.
The  results  obtained  in  the  economic  sphere  are 
rather  mixed.  That  is  why  the  Government  would 
again like to make an urgent appeal from this rostrum 
to  the  partners  represented  here  that  they  honour  the 
commitments made at the Geneva conference of 2012.
Regarding  Burundi’s  post-2015  development 
programme,  the  following  areas  have  been  identified. 
They  are:  governance,  inequalities,  conflicts  and 
fragility;  economic  growth  and  employment;  energy, 
water and environmental sustainability; access to basic 
social  services;  and  population  dynamics  and  food 
security.  That  agenda  was  the  result  of  an  extensive 
national consultation that included all segments of the 
population. On its face, it can be seen to be a programme 
rooted in the continuity of change, well grounded in the 
transformative development of the lives of our people 
and  consistent  with  the  theme  for  this  session  of  the 
Assembly.
Even  if  regional  integration  does  not  seem  to  be 
explicitly  laid  out  in  the  programme,  I  would  like  to 
14/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
convey to all present that regional integration is a matter 
to  which  Burundi  is  firmly  committed  and  which  it 
considers  to  be  a  common  thread  linking  the  various 
policy areas, with the potential to provide appropriate 
responses to the challenges that our country faces.
At  the  international  level,  conflicts  continue  to 
tear  a  number  of  countries  apart  and  to  undermine 
development efforts in many others. We must mobilize 
our energies and work in synergy to end and eliminate 
such  threats  as  terrorism,  transnational  organized 
crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and others. 
In that regard, Burundi is striving, as much as possible, 
to do its part to help maintain peace and security in the 
world.
Burundi  was  one  of  two  countries  in  Africa  and 
the world that decided to intervene in Somalia as part 
of the African Union Mission in 2008, and we continue 
to  strive  to  contribute  to  the  stabilization  of  that 
country  to  this  day.  In  that  regard,  Burundi  is  proud 
of the progress made towards normalization in Somali, 
which promises a better future for Somalia. However, 
the success achieved should not obscure the enormous 
challenges still facing Somalia. Burundi is committed 
to working with the other partners to address them.
Burundi  has  also  participated  in  peacekeeping 
operations  in  other  countries,  including  the  Central 
African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, Haiti, the Sudan and 
Syria, to name but a few.
With  regard  to  Mali,  we  are  greatly  satisfied  that 
territorial  integrity  has  been  restored  in  that  country 
and  that  the  presidential  elections  held  there  were  a 
success.
Regarding the conflict in the Middle East, Burundi, 
like  other  members  of  the  international  community, 
is  deeply  concerned  about  the  deteriorating  security 
situation in the region observed in recent weeks. That is 
why we urge all parties to stop armed attacks, to avoid 
the loss of human life and to seek negotiated settlements 
to their disputes.
Finally,  with  regard  to  the  Ebola  crisis,  we,  like 
other  African  countries,  are  very  concerned  about 
the  rapid  spread  of  the  Ebola  virus,  as  was  vividly 
described by many representatives during the Security 
Council  meeting  of  18  September  (see  S/PV.7268). 
We  congratulate  the  Council  on  its  adoption  on 
18  September  of  resolution  2177  (2014)  on  the  Ebola 
crisis, at the initiative of the United States of America. 
My delegation is proud to have sponsored the resolution, 
along with 134 other States, early in its development.
With  regard  to  South  Sudan,  we  urgently  call  on 
all parties to the conflict to break the cycle of violence 
and resolve their differences through political dialogue. 
In  that  connection,  we  are  pleased  to  announce  that 
Burundi has promised an infantry battalion of 850 men 
to help that young State to restore peace and security.
the 
I  also  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Burundi 
has  made  progress  regarding 
implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in 
general  and  in  the  areas  of  education  and  health  in 
particular.  However,  despite  my  country’s  efforts  to 
accelerate  actions  to  honour  the  commitments  made 
at  the  Millennium  Summit  in  2000,  the  international 
economic  climate,  and  that  in  Burundi  in  particular, 
has  not  been  favourable  for  their  attainment.  The 
Government of Burundi remains committed, however, 
to the development goals programme and will continue 
to work beyond 2015 to redouble its efforts to safeguard 
and  strengthen  the  principles  and  values  contained  in 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which 
is  a  solid  foundation  for  the  post-2015  development 
programme.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Prosper  Bazombanza,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Burundi,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of India
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of India.
Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of India, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Modi  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English  text 
provided by the delegation): At the outset, I would like 
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
14-55126
15/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
It  is  a  truly  a  great  honour  for  me  to  address  the 
Assembly for the first time as Prime Minister of India. 
I  am  humbled  by  the  hopes  and  expectations  of  the 
people of India. I am also mindful of the expectations 
of the world from our 1.25 billion people.
My  country,  India,  is  home  to  one  sixth  of 
the  world’s  population.  It  is  a  nation  experiencing 
economic  and  social  transformation  on  a  scale  rarely 
seen in the history of the world. Every country’s world 
view is shaped by its civilization and its philosophical 
traditions. India’s ancient wisdom sees the world as one 
family, and when I say this, I wish to make it clear that 
each country has its philosophy. I am not talking about 
ideology.  With  the  inspiration  of  that  philosophy,  a 
country marches ahead. India is a country that since its 
Vedic times, has been saying that the world, the entire 
globe,  is  a  family.  India  is  a  country  where,  beyond 
nature,  we  have  a  communication,  a  dialogue,  with 
nature.  We  never  struggle  with  nature.  That  is  a  part 
of Indian life. The reason is that with that philosophy, 
India has been moving forward. Each country and each 
nation is shaped by its civilization and its philosophical 
tradition. India’s ancient wisdom, as I have said, sees 
the world as one family. India is a country that not only 
speaks  for  itself  but  for  worldwide  justice,  dignity, 
opportunity and prosperity. We have always spoken out 
in support of such issues.
Owing  to  our  ideology,  we  have  a  firm  belief  in 
multilateralism.  Today,  as  I  stand  here,  I  am  equally 
aware of the hopes and expectations that are pinned on 
the General Assembly. I am struck by the sacred belief 
that brought us together. We established the Organization 
on the basis of great principles and perspectives, in the 
belief that if our futures are connected, we will have to 
work together for peace and security, for human rights 
and for the economic development of all. We must work 
together  to  those  ends.  At  that  time,  there  were  only 
51 countries. Today, 193 sovereign flags fly in front of 
this building. Each new country enters on the basis of 
the same belief and expectation.
In the past six decades, we have been able to achieve 
a  great  deal.  We  have  ended  many  wars.  We  have 
established  and  maintained  peace.  We  have  assisted 
economic development in many places. We have helped 
to build a future for poor children. We have contributed 
towards  the  elimination  of  starvation  and  strived  to 
save  our  planet.  The  69  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions have made the Blue Helmet a symbol of peace 
in the world.
Today,  there  is  a  surge  of  democracy  across  the 
world.  The  peaceful  democratic  transformation  in 
Afghanistan shows that the Afghan people’s aspiration 
for  peace  will  definitely  triumph  over  violence.  We 
have seen Nepal emerge from war towards peace and 
democracy. Bhutan’s young democracy is flourishing. 
There are also efforts towards democracy in West Asia 
and North Africa. Tunisia’s success shows that such a 
path of democracy is possible. In Africa, there is a new 
momentum for stability, peace and progress, and a new 
awareness is on the horizon.
We have seen unprecedented prosperity in Asia and 
beyond  founded  on  strengthened  peace  and  stability. 
Latin  America,  a  continent  of  enormous  potential,  is 
coming together in the shared pursuit of stability and 
prosperity. That continent may prove to be an important 
anchor for the global community. India looks forward to 
a peaceful and stable environment for its development. 
Our future is linked to our neighbourhood. That is why, 
from the very first day, my Government gave the highest 
priority to promoting friendship and cooperation with 
our neighbouring countries.
I  have  the  same  policy  towards  Pakistan.  I  want 
to  hold  serious  bilateral  talks  with  Pakistan  in  order 
to  improve  friendship  and  cooperation  in  a  peaceful 
atmosphere,  without  the  shadow  of  terrorism.  I  want 
to  hold  bilateral  talks  with  that  country.  However,  it 
is  also  Pakistan’s  responsibility  to  come  forward  and 
to  genuinely  establish  the  appropriate  atmosphere  for 
bilateral talks. In raising that issue in this forum, I do 
not  know  how  successful  our  efforts  will  be.  Some 
people are doubtful.
Today, we need to assist the victims of the floods 
in  Kashmir.  In  India,  we  have  organized  large-scale 
assistance. We have not stopped at only India helping 
Kashmir. We have also asked Pakistan to assist, since 
that area was also affected by the floods. We have told 
Pakistan that just as we were helping the flood victims 
in India, we would also like to help those in Pakistan. 
We have proposed that. We are a part of the developing 
world  but  have  limited  resources.  We  would  like  to 
share  our  modest  resources  with  all  those  who  are  in 
dire need of assistance.
Today,  the  world  is  witnessing  a  high  level  of 
tension  and  turmoil.  There  are  no  major  wars,  but 
tension  and  conflict  abound.  There  is  an  absence  of 
peace  and  uncertainty  about  the  future.  Even  today, 
there is rampant poverty everywhere. The Asia-Pacific 
16/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
region,  which  is  integrating,  is  still  concerned  about 
maritime  security.  That  is  fundamental  to  its  future. 
Europe  faces  a  new  threat  of  division.  In  West  Asia, 
the dividing lines and terrorism are increasing. In our 
own region, we are still struggling to combat terrorism 
and instability. For the past four decades, we have faced 
such a threat.
Terrorism  emerges  in  new  forms  and  under  new 
names.  Be  it  small  or  large,  in  the  North,  the  South, 
the East or the West, no country is free from threats. 
I  remember  when  I  met  with  world  leaders  20  years 
ago, and we talked about terrorism. They did not quite 
understand  it  and  stated  that  it  was  a  law-and-order 
problem. Today, the entire world is witness to the slow 
spread of terrorism far and wide.
Are  we  really  making  integrated  efforts  at  the 
international  level  to  fight  against  those  powerful 
groups? I know that terrorism is a very serious problem 
for discussion. Even today, some countries are giving 
refuge  to  international  terrorists,  and  they  consider 
terrorism a tool of their policy. Good terrorism and bad 
terrorism  —  that  is  what  we  hear  these  days.  At  this 
time, there is a question mark regarding our struggle to 
fight against terrorism. The brutal return of terrorism 
in West Asia and its impact on countries far and near 
has  elicited  a  concerted  effort,  which  we  welcome. 
However, the effort should involve all the countries of 
the region. If we want to overcome terrorism, then they 
must all contribute towards its eradication. We strongly 
emphasize this.
Oceans,  seas,  space  and  cyberspace,  besides 
contributing to our common wealth and prosperity, are 
becoming new theatres of conflict. In the same oceans 
that used to connect us, we are today hearing news of 
disputes.  We  once  saw  space  as  holding  out  potential 
for  our  achievements.  Today,  in  cyberspace,  which 
connects us in important areas, new dangers are being 
seen.  International  harmony  and  cooperation  —  on 
which the United Nations was founded — are needed 
now  more  than  ever  before.  Today,  we  talk  about  an 
interdependent world, but have we become more united 
as nations? We need to think about that.
Why, when we have a good forum like the United 
Nations, do we keep creating so many different groups? 
There  is  the  Group  of  Four,  the  Group  of  Seven  and 
the  Group  of  20  —  and  the  numbers  keep  changing. 
Whether or not we really want to do so, we, including 
India,  become  members  of  them.  Is  it  not  the  time  to 
move  on  and  leave  behind  those  groups?  When  the 
United  Nations  celebrates  its  seventieth  anniversary, 
how do we create a Group-of-All atmosphere? How can 
the  General  Assembly  create  an  opportunity  to  solve 
all  our  problems?  How  can  people  begin  to  be  more 
trustful? How can we become less competitive? We talk 
about unity, but then we divide the whole into different 
parts and pieces. Can we prevent ourselves from doing 
so?
On  the  one  hand,  we  say  that  our  policies  are 
interconnected;  on  the  other,  we  think  in  terms  of 
zero-sum  gains.  We  think  that  if  the  other  benefits,  I 
stand to lose. Who receives the benefit and who suffers 
the loss? That is what we appear to be weighing. The 
pessimists  are  cynical.  Like  them,  we  are  inclined  to 
say  nothing  will  change.  It  is  easy  to  be  cynical  and 
to say nothing will change. But if we do that, we run 
the risk of shirking our responsibilities and putting our 
collective future in danger.
We must unite and prepare to meet the needs of our 
times.  We  must  really  work  for  global  peace.  No  one 
country or group of countries can determine the course 
of  the  world  or  its  policies.  It  is  imperative  to  have 
genuine international participation and partnership. We 
should try to promote positive dialogue and cooperation 
among countries. Our efforts must begin at the United 
Nations.
It is important that we improve the Security Council 
by  making  it  more  democratic  and  participative. 
Institutions that reflect the imperatives of the twentieth 
century will not be effective in the twenty-first century. 
They  face  the  risk  of  irrelevance.  I  would  like  to 
emphasize  that  the  policies  and  rules  we  made  in  the 
twentieth  century  may  no  longer  be  applicable.  The 
speed  of  change  is  very  fast.  It  is  therefore  essential 
that, in tune with the times, we adapt and reformulate, 
making  the  necessary  changes  and  introducing  new 
ideas. Only when we have done that will we be relevant.
We should set aside all our differences and mount 
a  concerted  international  effort  to  combat  terrorism 
and  extremism.  Towards  that  end,  we  should  adopt  a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
That  is  something  which  is  long  overdue.  It  must  be 
emphasized that our combined strength to fight against 
terrorism  should  be  reflected  in  the  convention.  Our 
country, which has endured so many terrorist attacks, 
knows that, so long as the United Nations fails to take 
the  initiative  in  that  effort,  and  so  long  as  we  do  not 
adopt  a  convention,  we  cannot  be  successful.  In  such 
work, we must not forget to make provision for peace, 
14-55126
17/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
stability and order in outer space and cyberspace. We 
must work together to ensure that all countries observe 
international rules and norms.
We  must  include  the  host  countries  and  troop-
contributing  countries  in  our  decision-making  on 
United Nations peacekeeping. If they are included, their 
confidence will increase considerably. They are ready 
to  make  major  sacrifices  and  to  give  their  time  and 
energy. But if they are excluded from decision-making, 
then  how  can  United  Nations  peacekeeping  become 
more vital and urgent? We need to seriously consider 
that.  Today,  let  us  redouble  our  efforts  in  pursuit  of 
global  disarmament.  Let  us  also  spare  no  effort  to 
ensure that we work tirelessly towards those goals.
Globalization  has  created  new  industries  and 
sources of employment. At the same time, billions live 
in the shadow of poverty. A great many countries are 
suffering  economic  deprivation,  barely  keeping  their 
heads above water. What seems so difficult today was 
never so difficult in the past. Technology has made many 
things possible. Reduction in the cost of technology has 
made it more widely available. If we think of the speed 
with which Facebook or Twitter have spread around the 
world and cell-phone use has proliferated, then we must 
also  believe  that  development  and  empowerment  can 
spread with the same speed.
It  is  up  to  each  country  to  make  its  own  efforts 
at the national level. Each Government must fulfil its 
responsibilities. International participation is also very 
important. At one level, it requires better coordination 
of  policy,  so 
that  our  efforts  become  mutually 
supportive, not mutually damaging. It also means that, 
when  we  craft  agreements  on  international  trade,  we 
accommodate one another’s concerns and interests.
Let  us  think  about  the  scale  of  the  need.  Today, 
basic sanitation is out of the reach of 2.5 billion people; 
1.3 billion have no access to electricity and 1.1 billion 
no  access  to  drinking  water.  That  makes  it  clear  that 
more comprehensive and concerted international action 
is  required.  We  cannot  keep  waiting  for  economic 
development.  In  India,  the  most  important  aspects  of 
my development agenda are focused precisely on those 
very issues, which should also be at the core of the post-
2015 development agenda, as they deserve our utmost 
attention.
A world that is more habitable and sustainable is an 
objective we must work towards. There has been much 
debate and much written about that, but it takes only a 
brief glance around our countries to become concerned. 
We are very concerned indeed about issues relating to 
forests,  wildlife,  birds,  rivers,  water  sources  and  the 
blue sky above.
I  would  like  to  address  three  points.  First,  if  we 
are to meet all of the challenges, we must fully uphold 
our 
responsibilities.  The  global  community  has 
agreed  to  work  together  on  the  basis  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibility. That must continue to be 
the  foundation  of  future  action.  That  also  means  that 
developed countries must fulfil their commitments in 
terms of funding and technology transfer.
Secondly, national action is imperative. Technology 
has  made  many  things  possible,  such  as  renewable 
energy.  We  need  imagination  and  commitment.  India 
stands ready to share its technology and capabilities, as 
for example through the recently announced free access 
to a satellite.
Thirdly, we need to change our lifestyles. Avoiding 
energy  use  is  the  cleanest  option  and  would  give  a 
new direction to our economy. For us in India, respect 
for  nature  is  fundamental  and  an  integral  part  of 
spiritualism. It is part of our ideology.
I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to 
another idea. When we talk of climate change, we are 
also talking about holistic health care, connecting with 
nature  and  going  back  to  basics.  Today,  I  would  like 
to underscore that yoga is an invaluable gift from our 
ancient  tradition.  Yoga  embodies  unity  of  mind  and 
body, thought and action. It is important to coordinate 
all of those aspects. Such a holistic approach is valuable 
to our health and our well-being. Yoga is not just about 
exercise;  it  is  a  way  to  discover  the  sense  of  oneness 
with yourself, the world and nature. By changing our 
lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can also help us 
deal with climate change. Let us work towards adopting 
an international yoga day.
Finally, we are at a historic moment. Every age is 
defined  by  its  character  and  remembered  for  how  it 
rose to meet its challenges. Today, we are responsible 
to rise and meet those challenges. Next year, the United 
Nations will be 70 years old. We should ask ourselves 
whether  we  should  wait  until  we  are  80  or  100  years 
old to take action. I believe that next year will provide 
an opportunity for the United Nations. After a voyage 
spanning  70  years,  we  shall  be  able  to  look  back  and 
review  what  we  have  achieved,  whence  we  began, 
why  we  left  certain  places,  what  motivated  us,  how 
18/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
we  proceeded  and  what  we  have  attained.  What  are 
the challenges facing us in the twenty-first century? If 
we can keep all of that in mind, through exchanges of 
views, dialogue with universities, and intergenerational 
discussions  with  young  people,  who  can  contribute 
ideas, then we will find the ways to connect all of those 
things for future generations.
That  is  why  I  say  that  arriving  at  the  milestone 
of  70  years  presents  us  with  a  great  opportunity  that 
we should not waste. By taking full advantage of this 
moment, we could achieve a new consciousness, a new 
life,  with  new  ambitions  and  aspirations.  We  could 
give  the  journey  of  the  United  Nations  a  new  form.  I 
therefore  feel  that  70  years  is  a  great  opportunity  for 
us. Let us come together and fulfil our promise to bring 
improvements to the Security Council. That issue has 
been before us for a long time, yet there has not been 
much progress. We need to think very seriously about 
it.
Mrs.  Al-Mughairy  (Oman),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In  preparing  and  implementing  the  post-2015 
development agenda, let us come together to keep our 
promises. For 2015, let us come together to give a new 
direction and make the moment memorable by giving 
the world a new lease on development. The year 2015 
should be a banner year in history — a turning point 
in history. I hope that we will all live up to its promise.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of 
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  warmly 
congratulate  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.  I  also  congratulate  Ambassador  John  Ashe 
for  his  leadership  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session. My appreciation also goes to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his stewardship of our endeavours to 
realize our common vision of a world of peace, dignity 
and well-being for all.
Four  decades  ago,  in  his  maiden  speech  before 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Father  of  our  nation  of 
Bangladesh,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman 
(see  A/PV.2243),  described  his  vision  for  a  global 
order,  saying  that  the  Bengali  nation  is  pledge-bound 
to  establish  a  global  order,  one  based  on  peaceful 
coexistence, social justice and freedom from poverty, 
hunger,  exploitation  and  aggression.  That  vision 
continues to guide Bangladesh’s national development 
policies and our engagement in global affairs.
We gather at a time when the global development 
discourse finds itself at an important juncture. As the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) approaches its deadline, the global community 
is  engaged  in  framing  a  transformative  development 
agenda for 2016-2030. The theme for this session of the 
General Assembly is therefore quite timely. Bangladesh 
believes that our deliberations will help us to arrive at a 
balanced, pragmatic and ambitious agenda.
We cannot achieve sustainable development in the 
absence  of  durable  peace  and  security.  The  volatile 
global security situation continues to pose significant 
challenges  to  international  development.  Bangladesh 
believes that a threat to peace anywhere is a threat to 
humankind as a whole.
In  keeping  with  our  position  of  principle,  we 
continue  to  express  our  full  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian people in their legitimate struggle for self-
determination.  We  condemn  the  systematic  killing  of 
hundreds of Palestinian civilians, including women and 
children, by Israel during the recent offensive in Gaza. 
We  seek  a  permanent  solution  to  that  long-standing 
conflict  through  the  creation  of  an  independent  and 
viable State of Palestine based on the pre-1967 borders 
and with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital.
Bangladesh  strongly  believes  in  the  centrality 
and legitimacy of the United Nations as the custodian 
of  global  peace,  security  and  development.  Our 
14-55126
19/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
commitment  to  international  peace  is  manifest  in  our 
support for the flagship resolution 68/125 on a culture of 
peace and non-violence. Our peace leadership is further 
reaffirmed through our support to the United Nations as 
one of the top troop- and police-contributing countries 
in  the  Organization’s  peacekeeping  endeavours.  We 
have  so  far  contributed  128,133  peacekeepers  in  54 
peace  missions.  Bangladesh  proudly  contributes  the 
highest  number  of  women  police  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping,  commensurate  with  our  credentials  in 
the empowerment of women.
Terrorism and extremism remain major impediments 
on  the  road  to  global  peace  and  development.  My 
Government  maintains  a  zero-tolerance  policy  with 
respect  to  all  forms  of  terrorism,  violent  extremism, 
radicalization and faith-based politics. We remain firm 
in  our  resolve  not  to  allow  any  terrorist  individual  or 
entity to use our territory against any State.
forces 
remain  active 
The  anti-liberation 
in 
attempting  to  destroy  the  progressive  and  secular 
fabric of our nation. They resort to religious militancy 
and  violent  extremism  at  every  opportunity.  Under 
the  direct  patronage  of  the  Bangladesh  Nationalist 
Party-Jamaat-e-Islami  Alliance  Government 
from 
2001 to 2006, they coalesced to form terrorist groups 
that  carried  out  bomb  and  grenade  attacks  and  killed 
secular political leaders and activists. Those gruesome 
attacks cemented my resolve to create a strong legal and 
regulatory  regime  for  countering  terrorism,  including 
the adoption of the amended Anti-terrorism Act of 2013 
and the Money Laundering Prevention Act of 2012.
My  Government  is  also  seeking  to  entrench 
democracy, secularism and women’s empowerment in 
order to defeat terrorism and extremism ideologically. 
We have also significantly enhanced transparency and 
accountability  in  governance  by  strengthening  our 
election, anti-corruption, human rights and information 
commissions. To uphold peace and the rule of law and 
end the culture of impunity, my Government remains 
pledge-bound  to  bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of 
war crimes, crimes against humanity, rape and acts of 
genocide committed during our 1971 war of liberation. 
The  highly  transparent,  impartial  and  independent 
international  crimes  tribunals  in  Bangladesh  have 
already  completed  the  trials  of  a  few  key  criminals 
who carried out heinous crimes against humanity. We 
hope for the international community’s full support for 
our  people’s  desire  for  this  long-awaited  rendering  of 
justice.
(MDGs) 
Our  Government  has  integrated  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
into  our  national 
five-year  plan  and  Vision  2021,  a  people-centric 
programme  that  aspires  to  transform  Bangladesh  into 
a knowledge-based, technology-driven middle-income 
country by 2021. Bangladesh has already met or is on 
track  to  meet  the  first  six  MDGs.  Poverty  rates  have 
fallen  from  57  per  cent  in  1991  to  below  25  per  cent 
today.  During  the  past  five  years,  our  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP)  growth  rate  remained  at  6.2  per  cent, 
despite  a  global  recession.  Our  export  earnings  grew 
more  than  threefold  from  around  $10.53  billion  in 
2006 to more than $30.5 billion for the last fiscal year. 
Remittances have also almost tripled, from $5 billion 
in  2006  to  $14.5  billion,  while  our  foreign  currency 
reserves jumped six and a half times, from $3.49 billion 
in 2006 to $22 billion today.
In  an  effort  to  unlock  Bangladesh’s  development 
potential,  we  have  undertaken 
some  massive 
infrastructure and connectivity projects. We have begun 
work  on  a  6.15-kilometre  bridge  over  the  great  river 
Padma  using  our  own  resources.  We  will  soon  begin 
developing a deep-sea port in Sonadia, Chittagong. We 
are  already  working  on  upgrading  our  road  and  rail 
infrastructure, including expressways and river tunnels. 
We  have  reached  agreements  with  friendly  countries 
such as India, China and Japan to develop large-scale 
power plants to meet our growing demands by 2021. We 
are developing 18 economic zones around the country 
to  enable  potential  investors  to  invest  in  Bangladesh, 
especially  in  the  context  of  our  growing  integration 
into the regional connectivity framework. Bangladesh 
enjoys  a  clear  demographic  dividend,  with  two  thirds 
of  its  workforce  young,  employable  and  capable  of 
remaining  economically  active  till  2031.  One  of  our 
policy priorities is investing in skills development for 
our increasingly youthful population.
With  a  view  to  developing  a  knowledge-based 
society, we are rapidly building the capabilities of our 
country and people in the area of modern information 
and communications technologies. Our people currently 
receive more than 200 types of service from more than 
4,500 union service and information centres, while rural 
populations  have  access  to  health-care  services  from 
more  than  15,000  information-technology-connected 
community  health  clinics  and  union  health  centres. 
These  networks  enable  us  to  bring  various  crucial 
public services to our people’s homes at an affordable 
cost. Bangladesh has 117 million SIM cards with more 
20/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
than 78 per cent telephone penetration and 50 million 
Internet connections.
Bangladesh’s  strides  in  education  have  enabled 
us  to  achieve  the  MDG  targets  of  ensuring  universal 
primary school enrolment and gender parity in primary 
and  secondary  schools.  Our  Government  provides 
students with a free education up to the twelfth grade 
and provides 12.8 million students, 75 per cent of them 
girls,  from  poor  families  with  monthly  stipends  from 
primary  level  to  graduation.  Each  year  we  distribute 
around 318 million free textbooks to all students up to 
the secondary level. We are now focusing on improving 
the quality of education to enable our boys and girls to 
acquire  essential  life  skills  and  grow  up  with  a  truly 
global outlook.
implies 
For  us,  sustainable  development 
the 
empowerment of women and their equal participation 
with  men  in  all  walks  of  life.  Our  efforts  to  promote 
women’s  empowerment  by  enhancing  their  access 
to  productive  resources  and  representation  at  the 
national  and  local  level  are  producing  visible  results. 
The  Government’s  pragmatic  policies  have  helped 
leadership by women grow from the grass-roots to the 
highest  levels.  Bangladesh  may  be  the  only  country 
today where women concurrently occupy the positions 
of  Prime  Minister,  Speaker,  leader  of  the  opposition 
and deputy leader. In the judiciary, administration, the 
civil  service,  the  armed  forces  and  law  enforcement 
agencies, 10 per cent of posts are reserved for women, 
as are 60 per cent of primary-school teaching posts.
With a view to ensuring equality, my Government 
has established numerous social safety-net programmes 
that  cover  more  than  24  per  cent  of  the  population, 
notably  feeding  and  development  programmes  for 
vulnerable  groups;  the  Ashrayan  poverty  alleviation 
project, which provides housing and income generation 
for the homeless; monthly pensions for senior citizens, 
widows,  destitute  women  and  the  disabled;  maternity 
allowances;  and  food  and  nutrition  security  for  rural 
dwellers through one-house, one-farm schemes aimed 
at promoting family farming. Persons with disabilities 
are  provided  with  education,  skills  development  and 
interest-free  credit  for  self-employment,  with  a  1  per 
cent jobs quota reserved for them in the formal sector.
The  MDGs  have  been  the  most  successful  global 
anti-poverty push in history. It is due to them that the 
world is seeing 50 per cent less poverty than in 1990, 
as  well  as  more  girls  in  school,  fewer  children  dying 
and  more  people  with  access  to  safe  drinking  water 
and sanitation. However, progress has been uneven and 
unequal within and among countries and regions. Sadly, 
more than 1.3 billion people still live in abject poverty. 
As  we  reflect  on  our  new  and  emerging  development 
challenges,  eradication  of  poverty  must  remain  at  the 
centre  of  the  post-2015  agenda,  and  we  must  build 
linkages from it to all other goals. Our new framework 
must  achieve  a  balance  between  the  three  pillars  of 
sustainable  development,  and  it  should  particularly 
keep in mind the importance of access and the unique 
circumstances  and  diverse  needs  of  countries  such 
as  Bangladesh.  I  am  pleased  that  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  has  used  a 
rigorous,  broadly  inclusive  process  to  come  up  with 
recommendations  for  a  set  of  interlinked  goals  and 
targets.
In Bangladesh, we have held national consultations 
and remained intensely engaged in the global process. 
We  consider  the  set  of  goals  and  targets  a  carefully 
balanced package and a crucial basis for the post-2015 
development  agenda.  The  future  development  agenda 
must  address  low-income  developing  countries’  long-
standing  constraints  on  resources  and  capacity  in  a 
meaningful  way  and  respond  to  emerging  risks  and 
vulnerabilities. The post-2015 development framework 
must  fulfil  our  aspirations  for  building  an  equitable, 
prosperous  and  sustainable  world  where  no  person 
or  nation  is  left  behind.  It  must  also  contribute  to  a 
strengthened  multilateralism,  go  beyond  the  national 
policy  space  and  forge  international  cooperation. 
Greater  resources  would  be  key  to  the  success  of  the 
post-2015  agenda.  There  is  a  need  for  a  robust  and 
broad-based global partnership based on the principles 
of mutual trust, respect and common but differentiated 
responsibilities.
Bangladesh  underscores  its  clear  resolve  with 
regard  to  the  financing  of  sustainable  development 
by  next  year,  in  particular  from  the  financing  for 
development process. While it is encouraging that some 
developed countries have fulfilled their commitment to 
contributing 0.7 per cent of their gross national income 
(GNI) and 0.2 per cent of GNI as official development 
assistance  (ODA)  to  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs),  most  other  countries  have  yet  to  fulfil  those 
goals. At the same time, in a globalized economy, the 
least developed and most climate-vulnerable countries, 
such as Bangladesh, require greater support in terms of 
ODA, science and technology innovation and capacity-
14-55126
21/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
building. All products from all LDCs must be granted 
duty- and quota-free access to all markets of developed 
countries.
enable us to tap into blue opportunities. For that reason, 
we continue to support the inclusion of blue-economy 
principles and practices in the post-2015 framework.
The  world  today  is  witnessing  unprecedented 
human mobility within and beyond borders. Bangladesh 
has emerged as a key stakeholder in global migration. 
For  instance,  remittances  contribute  approximately 
14  per  cent  of  our  GDP.  Millions  of  our  migrant 
workers  continue  to  make  a  significant  contribution 
to development in a range of countries worldwide. We 
need  to  acknowledge  the  manifold  contributions  that 
migrants and their families make to our economies and 
societies  apart  from  just  remittances.  It  is  therefore 
logical  for  migration  and  development  issues  to  find 
a  well-deserved  space  across  the  emerging  post-
2015  framework.  It  is  my  pleasure  to  announce  that 
Bangladesh  will  chair  the  ninth  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development in 2016.
No  challenge  is  as  complex,  widespread  and 
formidable  as  climate  change, 
in  particular  for 
countries  such  as  ours.  A  recent  Asian  Development 
Bank report estimated that the mean economic cost of 
climate  change  and  adaptation  for  Bangladesh  would 
be between 2 and 9 per cent of GDP by 2100. Earlier, 
I emphasized before the Assembly that an increase of 
1°C in the temperature is estimated to lead to a 1-metre 
rise in the sea level, thereby submerging a fifth of the 
territory of Bangladesh. That could compel 30 million 
of our people to move elsewhere as climate migrants. 
For  Bangladesh,  climate  change  is  a  matter  of  bare 
survival.
In  addressing  climate  change,  adaptation  remains 
particularly  key  for  us.  We  have  a  crucial  need  for 
adequate, predictable and additional climate financing, 
access  to  locally  adaptable  technologies  and  support 
for  capacity-  and  institution-building.  We  reiterate, 
under United Nations leadership, in particular through 
the role of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the importance of the 
processes for the integration of the UNFCCC, disaster-
risk reduction and the sustainable development goals.
The  world  also  needs  to  recognize  the  untapped 
potential of an ocean-based blue economy. The coastal 
and  small  island  developing  States  stand  to  greatly 
benefit  from  the  balanced  conservation,  development 
and use of marine ecosystems, resources and services. 
We call for global support for coastal countries, such as 
Bangladesh,  in  developing  the  much-needed  capacity, 
technology  and  institutional  frameworks  that  will 
Bangladesh  proposed  a  flagship  resolution  at 
UNESCO, adopted in 1999, which led to the recognition 
of  21  February  as  the  International  Mother  Language 
Day  for  the  peoples  of  the  world.  We  established  the 
only International Mother Language Institute in Dhaka 
to  preserve  the  more  than  6,500  mother  tongues  of 
humankind. Those are two pillars of our commitment 
to mother languages. I once again call on the Assembly 
to  recognize  Bangla,  which  is  spoken  by  more  than 
300  million  people,  as  an  official  language  of  the 
United Nations.
This  year,  Bangladesh  celebrates  40  years  of  its 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  On  this  special 
occasion,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm,  on  behalf  of 
our  people,  the  appeal  by  the  father  of  our  nation, 
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, for our progeny 
at this Assembly in 1974: Let us together create a world 
that  can  eradicate  poverty,  hunger,  war  and  human 
suffering and achieve global peace and security for the 
well-being of humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the statement she 
has just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe  Bainimarama, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Fiji.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  I  join  those  who  have 
spoken  before  me  in  congratulating  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on 
his assumption of the office of President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  Like  them,  I  am 
confident that, under his leadership, the sixty-ninth session 
22/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
will  be  productive.  I  would  also  like  to  express  Fiji’s 
gratitude for the leadership of Mr. John Ashe throughout 
the sixty-eighth session.
Five years ago, I stood in this great Hall and promised 
the global community that my Government would introduce 
the first genuine democracy in Fiji’s history before the end 
of September (see A/64/PV.10). It is my honour to inform 
the Assembly that, with the support of the Fijian people, 
I have kept that promise. I return to the Assembly today 
as the duly elected Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Fiji. At our general election on 17 September, I led my 
Fiji  First  political  movement  to  a  decisive  victory  in 
the first election to be held under our new Constitution 
on  the  basis  of  equal  votes  of  equal  value.  The  new 
Constitution  replaced  the  three  previous  constitutions 
since  our  independence  from  Britain  in  1970,  in 
which  Governments  were  chosen  under  a  weighted 
and discriminatory formula that separated the various 
communities and favoured some citizens over others.
For nearly four decades, we laboured under a system 
that  was  undemocratic,  unjust  and  unfair.  Indeed,  we 
were  a  case  study  of  a  nation  that  was  supposedly 
democratic  and  casting  itself  as  such,  but  was  failing 
to meet some basic democratic standards — a common 
and  equal  citizenry,  a  common  identity  and  a  level 
playing  field  on  which  every  citizen  can  excel.  We 
have often heard it said that elections are key to having 
democracy. We in Fiji knew that that was not the case, 
because  our  electoral  system,  before  it  was  reformed, 
did  not  give  us  true  democracy.  It  did  not  facilitate 
justice, transparency or good governance. It was about 
reinforcing power, the power of elites, and keeping the 
population  divided  into  different  communal  groups. 
That weighted system perpetuated injustice for a great 
many of our people, created different classes of citizens 
and  encouraged  corruption.  It  was  a  system  that  no 
advanced democracy would accept for itself. The status 
of  any  Fijian  in  national  life  depended  on  his  or  her 
racial  origin,  whether  that  man  or  woman  came  from 
one of the chiefly or business elites, and even what part 
of the country the person lived in.
We  needed  a  revolution  to  put  us  on  the  path  to 
true democracy. And from the time that that revolution 
began in 2006 to our election 10 days ago, we embarked 
on a series of reforms that have transformed our nation. 
More laws were passed during this eight-year period to 
improve our standard of governance than in the entire 
36-year period since independence. And central to that 
was the development of our supreme law — the 2013 
Constitution — from which all other laws flow. It is the 
blueprint for the new Fiji. Now every Fiji Islander enjoys 
equal opportunity and a common identity — Fijian. That 
name was once reserved for the indigenous majority but 
now applies to everyone from the Republic of Fiji, just 
as the common name American applies to all from the 
United States or the name Australian to any Australian 
from Australia.
A  range  of  social  and  economic  rights  have  also 
been enshrined in our supreme law for the first time, 
rights  that  comply  with  a  number  of  United  Nations 
conventions  —  the  right  to  economic  participation, 
a  just  minimum  wage,  education,  housing,  health 
and  adequate  food  and  water.  The  right  to  live  in  an 
environment  free  of  pollution  is  a  principle  we  hope 
that  every  nation  will  embrace,  as  we  strive  for  the 
preservation and protection of our natural surroundings. 
So today, I am proud to report to the Assembly that Fiji 
is a fairer, more just society and a more compassionate 
society, as we step up our efforts to alleviate poverty on 
the back of a rapidly strengthening economy.
We  have  also  set  our  sights  on  being  a  smarter 
country  by  introducing  free  schooling  at  the  primary 
and  secondary  levels  for  the  first  time.  Plus  we  now 
have  an  array  of  scholarships  and  a  tertiary  loans 
scheme to enable our young people to go on to higher 
education.  Our  vision  is  to  cement  our  place  as  a 
pre-eminent Pacific Island nation, a true regional hub 
and a Pacific beacon of prosperity and progress for our 
smaller neighbours. We intend to play a bigger role in 
the wider world to voice our collective concerns about 
such issues as the environment, climate change and the 
need  to  create  a  fairer  trading  system  to  benefit  our 
people in the Pacific and in all developing countries.
As we begin this new era in our national life, I want 
to  thank  those  in  the  greater  community  of  nations 
who have stood by us in recent years as we made the 
reforms that were necessary to create a better Fiji. Not 
everyone understood what we were trying to do. Some 
tried to damage us with sanctions and to degrade our 
quality  of  governance  because  we  refused  to  accept 
their  prescriptive  and  high-handed  approach  towards 
us.  But  the  majority  of  nations  recognized  our  right 
to  determine  our  own  future  and  came  to  understand 
that we were working not for the benefit of a governing 
elite but for the common good. To those in the General 
Assembly  who  gave  us  their  support,  our  friends,  1 
extend the grateful thanks of the Fijian people.
14-55126
23/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
I  also  want  to  especially  thank  those  countries 
that  made  up  the  Multinational  Observer  Group  that 
declared  our  general  election  credible,  free  and  fair. 
For  the  co-leaders  from  Australia,  India,  Indonesia, 
Canada, the European Union, Israel, Japan, the members 
of the Melanesian Spearhead Group, New Zealand, the 
Republic  of  Korea,  Russia,  South  Africa,  Turkey,  the 
United Kingdom and the United States of America — I 
offer many thanks to them all. It has been a long and 
sometimes  traumatic  journey  for  our  nation  in  the 
44  years  since  independence:  four  coups,  a  rebellion, 
four Constitutions and 56 days of shame in 2000 when 
members of our Parliament were held hostage.
Fiji has struggled to be unified and cohesive; our 
development was retarded by our inability to think and 
work  as  one  nation,  one  people.  But  with  the  recent 
election,  we  have  put  that  era  firmly  behind  us.  In 
our  new  democracy,  we  are  all  Fijians,  not  members 
of  separate  ethnic  and  religious  groups.  And  having 
established a common and equal citizenry, along with 
a  secular  State,  we  intend  to  move  forward  together 
to  finally  fulfil  our  promise  as  a  nation,  to  fulfil  our 
destiny.
I especially want to pay tribute today to the Fijian 
people. I say to them today before the world: this was 
their  victory.  Whichever  candidate  they  chose,  theirs 
was a vote for a better future for our nation. I pledge 
again that I will govern for the benefit of all our citizens, 
no matter who they are, where they come from or who 
they voted for. Mine will be an inclusive Government 
over the next four years. I will be the leader of all Fijians, 
for all Fijians. As we move our beloved nation forward, 
I am determined to leave no one behind. In that spirit, I 
extend a hand of friendship to my political opponents. 
Whatever  our  differences,  let  us  now  work  together 
constructively in our new Parliament, when it convenes 
on  6  October,  to  improve  the  lives  of  every  Fijian. 
We  are  currently  enjoying  the  most  sustained  period 
of economic growth in our history. The possibility to 
create more jobs and raise the living standards of our 
people has never been greater. Let us join hands to put 
our nation first, to put Fiji first.
I  want  to  assure  our  Pacific  neighbours  of  Fiji’s 
continuing  contribution  to  the  region  as  we  work 
together and collaborate to resolve the great challenges 
facing us, develop our economies and improve the lives 
of  all  Pacific  islanders.  Fiji  has  played  a  leading  role 
in  the  formation  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Development 
Forum, an addition to the existing regional framework, 
which, for the first time, links Governments with civil 
society  groups  and  the  private  sector  in  a  joint  effort 
to  solve  our  development  problems  in  a  sustainable 
manner.
Fiji 
the 
responsibility of hosting the Pacific Island Development 
Forum Secretariat in our capital, Suva. We were equally 
privileged  that  the  outgoing  Indonesian  President, 
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyno, was our principal guest at 
this year’s Forum in June.
to  have  been  given 
is  privileged 
In 
this 
International  Year  of  Small 
Island 
Developing States, we need a more concerted effort to 
strengthen our regional institutions in order to confront 
the enormous challenges we face in the Pacific, namely, 
population growth, the unsustainable use of our ocean’s 
natural resources and rising sea levels caused by climate 
change. Climate change threatens to engulf some of our 
Pacific Island States altogether, and is already forcing 
the evacuation of coastal villages in Fiji.
I  repeat  here  what  I  have  said  in  other  forums: 
history  will  judge  the  world’s  major  carbon-emitters 
extremely  harshly,  unless  they  take  immediate  and 
comprehensive steps to reduce emissions. It is simply 
not acceptable, purely in moral terms, for the world to 
allow the small island developing States to sink slowly 
beneath the waves because of the selfish determination 
of industrialized nations to protect their own economies. 
Time is fast running out, and I beg Governments to act.
I am also here to rededicate ourselves as a nation 
to the ideals of the United Nations and to its service, 
whenever and wherever it is required. That service is at 
the core of our foreign policy, whose central purpose is 
to be friends to all and enemies to none. It has been our 
privilege to chair the largest voting bloc at the United 
Nations,  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  this  year  to 
assume  the  Presidency  of  the  Executive  Board  of  the 
United Nations Development Programme.
For some 36 years now, Fiji has proudly contributed 
our  troops  to  successive  peacekeeping  operations  in 
Lebanon, Sinai, Iraq, Syria, Timor-Leste, South Sudan, 
Darfur,  Liberia,  Bosnia,  Kosovo,  Kuwait,  Namibia, 
Cambodia  and  the  Solomon  Islands.  Some  of  those 
peacekeepers  have  paid  with  their  lives  —  as  have 
troops  from  other  countries  —  and  we  honour  those 
who have fallen in the cause of peace. Last month, 45 of 
our soldiers currently serving with the United Nations 
Disengagement  Observer  Force,  were  held  captive. 
As  a  nation,  we  held  grave  fears  for  their  safety,  but 
24/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
after  two  anxious  weeks  our  prayers  were  answered, 
and  our  men  were  freed.  I  want  to  thank  the  skilful 
team  of  United  Nations  negotiators  who  worked  with 
our military officers and diplomats in a tireless effort 
to secure the release of our men. I also warmly thank 
those nations that came to Fiji’s assistance during that 
trying period. We will never forget the role played by 
those Governments in keeping our men safe so that they 
can continue to fulfil their United Nations mandate and 
eventually return safely to their families and friends in 
Fiji.
I am proud to say that not once during the course of 
that crisis were there any calls in Fiji for the withdrawal 
of  our  troops  from  that,  or  future,  peacekeeping 
missions.  Peacekeeping  is  a  noble  cause  and  is  our 
contribution to the welfare of ordinary men and women 
living  in  less  fortunate  circumstances  far  from  our 
island  home.  I  want  everyone  to  know  that  Fiji  will 
always be ready to serve.
To  strengthen  our  commitment  to  meeting  our 
international  obligations,  this  year  Fiji  opened  a 
Permanent  Mission  to  the  United  Nations  in  Geneva, 
which  is  focused  on  strengthening  our  interaction 
with treaty bodies, such as the Human Rights Council, 
the  International  Labour  Organization,  the  World 
Trade  Organization,  the  World  Intellectual  Property 
Organization,  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union and other organizations based in Geneva.
In  closing,  Fiji  looks  forward  to  contributing 
positively to the work of the United Nations during the 
President’s  stewardship  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth session. On behalf of all Fijians, I pledge our full 
support and cooperation as the President carries out his 
tasks in the cause of the great global family to which 
we all belong.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Fiji for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime 
Minister of Tuvalu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Enele Sosene Sopoaga, 
Prime Minister of Tuvalu, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Sopoaga  (Tuvalu):  It  is  indeed  a  great 
honour  and  pleasure  to  participate  in  this  General 
Assembly  debate  at  its  sixty-ninth  session  on  behalf 
of the Government and people of Tuvalu. I extend my 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. We wish the Assembly success under his able 
guidance. I also wish to thank the outgoing President, 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  for  a  successful  sixty-eighth 
session.  Likewise,  I  applaud  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, the Secretariat and all the specialized United 
Nations agencies and staff for their tireless efforts and 
energy.
Let  me  also  note  for  the  record  Tuvalu’s  sincere 
congratulations to the people and the new Government 
of  Fiji  under  Prime  Minister  Bainimarama  for  the 
successful  holding  of  general  elections.  In  the  same 
vein,  we  also  congratulate  New  Zealand  on  its 
successful elections.
Through  the  United  Nations,  we  have  worked 
diligently to deliver on the noble visions and principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Our 
shared goals are world peace, security and prosperity. 
Tuvalu  celebrates 
thirty-sixth  anniversary  of 
independence next week on 1 October, and we remain 
committed  and  proud  to  be  a  Member  of  this  great 
body. We must applaud the achievements of the United 
Nations.
its 
But we should not be over-congratulatory. Tuvalu 
also feels the sadness of the loss of lives and the suffering 
of fellow human beings from crises the world over. The 
losses resulting from terrorism, poverty, environmental 
degradation — especially climate change — and Ebola, 
along with the loss of lives owing to political conflicts 
in Syria, Israel, Palestine, the Middle East, Ukraine and 
many other regions of the world, are most disturbing, 
even  for  distant  countries  like  my  own  Tuvalu  in  the 
Pacific. Tuvalu shares in the grief of those people. We 
in the United Nations must work harder to address the 
root  causes  of  such  crises.  We  support  the  ongoing 
reform efforts in the United Nations, and in particular 
we urge the reform of the Security Council through an 
expansion  of  its  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats 
and its agenda, in order to include climate change as a 
Security Council issue.
14-55126
25/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
As we go on, though, one question stares us right 
in the eyes. Do we leaders really care? And do we mean 
what  we  say  here  at  the  United  Nations,  in  this  great 
Hall? Recently a kindergarten class in Tuvalu asked me 
this question: “Do we have a tomorrow, and can you, 
as  Prime  Minister,  save  us?”  Reflecting  on  how  this 
body can help respond to those fundamental questions 
gives me mixed feelings. We are indeed encouraged by 
the  momentum  of  some  strong  leadership  on  climate 
change, as was displayed at the Climate Summit earlier 
this week.
But we are also discouraged by the lack of concern 
displayed most conspicuously by the deniers of climate 
change, including some of our neighbours in the Pacific. 
Tuvalu  believes  that  the  United  Nations  must  not  be 
distracted  by  them.  We  must  remain  committed  to 
turning the momentum of the political leadership set in 
motion this week into real action for a more collective, 
strategic  and  pragmatic  response  to  world  crises.  We 
must walk the walk, as well as talk the talk, on every 
front  of  our  human  crises  if  we  are  to  ensure  global 
peace and security.
We  have  talked  a  lot  in  the  United  Nations  about 
designing  sustainable  development  goals  and  a  post-
2015  development  agenda.  The  tentative  goals  and 
targets identified are reflective of a membership that is 
seeking the same high aspirations and honourable goals 
as those enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, 
namely,  a  world  of  peace,  security,  opportunity  and 
prosperity. The United Nations must remain universal 
and relevant in bringing the real issues and events into 
focus and keeping the attention of the global community. 
It should be more responsive and understanding of the 
diverse  circumstances  and  needs  of  its  membership 
and  the  importance  of  contextualizing  its  strategic 
activities, taking into account the variable and special 
circumstances  of  each  Member.  It  must  also  improve 
its presence in all countries, particularly in vulnerable 
States like Tuvalu.
We  must  also  heed  the  lessons  of  the  world 
financial  crisis,  which  reversed  some  of  our  hard-
earned development advances related to the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Those  global  realities 
affect even remote, small island countries like Tuvalu, 
and  can  further  exacerbate 
their  vulnerabilities. 
The  new  sustainable  development  goals,  with  better 
accountability and transparency measures, must provide 
economies, big or small, with the capacity to address 
vulnerabilities  and  ensure  sustainability.  They  must 
also help to improve the means of implementation and 
create governance mechanisms that are inclusive and in 
which the voices of all countries and all stakeholders, 
including local Governments and authorities, are heard 
in decision-making.
The  dedication  of  2014  as  the  International  Year 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States  (SIDS)  is  much 
appreciated.  At  the  beginning  of  this  month  we 
congregated in the beautiful and tranquil island of the 
independent State of Samoa for the Third International 
Conference on Small Island Developing States, which 
concluded  with  an  outcome  document  outlining  the 
Small Island Developing States Accelerated Modalities 
of  Action,  or  Samoa    Pathway,  and  with  the  creation 
of many constructive partnerships aimed at addressing 
the special needs and circumstances of SIDS.
While Tuvalu acknowledges and greatly appreciates 
the  support  of  the  United  Nations  membership,  and 
the  exemplary  leadership  of  the  Samoan  Government 
and people, leading to the Conference’s huge success, 
we  also  believe  that  the  ultimate  measure  of  success 
for  SIDS  is  the  delivery  of  tangible  action  on  the 
ground,  reflecting  and  accommodating  their  unique, 
special  case.  It  is  urgent  that  we  seriously  consider 
the  proper  integration  of  the  SAMOA  Pathway  and  a 
special window for SIDS into the post-2015 sustainable 
development  agenda  of  the  United  Nations,  and  into 
all  other  programmes  in  the  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized agencies, in order to achieve their effective 
implementation, with particular attention to simplified 
access  to  climate  change  financing  for  small  island 
developing States.
(LDCs) 
The  graduation  criteria  and  their  application  to 
least-developed  countries 
require  proper 
scrutiny  and  review,  because  they  are  mostly  not 
relevant to the characteristics of SIDS. A small island 
developing  State  may  achieve  a  high  per  capita  gross 
national income and a high human development index, 
but  it  will  always  be  a  small  island  developing  State; 
one  cannot  graduate  from  the  natural  constraints  and 
environmental  vulnerabilities  of  being  a  small  island 
developing  State.  Recognizing  the  call  made  in  the 
SAMOA Pathway and given the ambiguity surrounding 
the  recommendations  for  Tuvalu’s  LDC  graduation, 
Tuvalu  seeks  further  deferral  of  that  graduation  until 
a  thorough  assessment  and  review  of  the  application 
of LDC graduation is done, taking full account of the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development’s 
26/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
recent  Least  Developed  Countries  Report  2013  and 
other studies dealing with Tuvalu.
With  Tuvalu’s  24  square  kilometres  of 
land 
juxtaposed  against  900,000  square  kilometres  of  the 
Pacific  Ocean,  the  sea  has  always  been  our  people’s 
lifeline to food and economic growth. As a custodian of 
the Pacific Ocean, Tuvalu fully supports a sustainable 
development  goal  on  oceans,  as  we  do  the  Palau 
Declaration  on  oceans  issued  by  the  leaders  of  the 
Pacific Islands Forum. We call on the United Nations 
to  honour  the  health  of  the  oceans,  because  they  are 
the  Earth’s  life-support  system.  To  that  end,  we  also 
support the commencement of negotiations towards an 
implementing agreement under the law of the sea that 
can better protect the oceans.
The seriousness and urgency of the need for action 
to combat climate change have been reaffirmed, not only 
by the fifth assessment report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change  but  also  by  world  leaders, 
and  was  strongly  echoed  by  youth  leaders  this  week 
in  this  very  Hall.  What  more  do  we  need  to  hear  to 
stop  the  denial  of  the  need  for  action  against  climate 
change? In Tuvalu, we are experiencing unprecedented, 
life-threatening  effects  of  climate  change.  As  a  low-
lying country with an elevation of barely two or three 
metres  above  sea  level,  like  our  fellow  atoll  island 
nations of Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, the Maldives, 
Tokelau  and  all  other  small  island  developing  States, 
Tuvalu  is  finding  that  its  security  and  survival,  and 
the  future  and  human  rights  of  its  citizens,  are  being 
seriously compromised. We cannot continue along that 
path.
The  Secretary-General’s  Climate  Summit,  held 
earlier  this  week,  which,  on  behalf  of  Tuvalu,  I  was 
honoured to co-chair with the President of Bolivia, gave 
us yet another opportunity to hear from young people, 
women and community leaders on the front line of the 
impacts  of  climate  change  from  every  region  of  the 
world, including my own Pacific region. Their message 
from the front line is simple, loud and clear: leaders of the 
world, do it! Save us!
Time is running out, and it would be grossly immoral, 
extremely irresponsible and even illegal to pretend that 
we did not hear the alarms and voices of those who are 
suffering  at  the  forefront  of  climate  change.  Tuvalu 
highly commends the Secretary-General for his strong 
leadership  and  welcomes  the  annoucements  made  by 
those Heads of State and Government who contributed 
to actions against climate change during the Summit. 
We commit to building on that momentum and that of the 
recent SIDS meeting up to the Lima meeting later this year 
and onwards in Paris in 2015.
Tuvalu  fully  supports  a  stand-alone  sustainable 
development  goal  on climate change. We urgently need 
a  commitment  from  all  countries  to  supporting  a  new 
climate change protocol, to be concluded in Paris in 2015. 
We must urgently address climate change in a legal and 
forward-looking manner. Otherwise, our post-2015 agenda 
will  be  meaningless  and  many  will  be  left  behind.  We 
therefore urge all parties to work urgently to negotiate a 
new  protocol,  to  curb  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  to 
keep the average temperature rise well below 1.5°C. The 
protocol  must  include  loss  and  damage  and  insurance 
mechanisms  for  SIDS  against  climate  change  and  must 
provide adequate and accessible financing for adaptation 
support to SIDS, such as Tuvalu.
There  is  no  time  for  half-measures,  such  as  we 
witnessed in Copenhagen in 2009. It is also critical that 
the new Green Climate Fund and the other existing climate 
change funds be adequately resourced and that access by 
SIDS be simplified for expedient action on the ground.
We  all  must  step  up  and  commit  to  reducing  our 
emissions and to supporting those who are vulnerable. As 
for my own country, despite our negligible greenhouse gas 
emissions, we are committed to employing 100 per cent 
renewable energy for our electrification by the year 2020. 
We are already well on the way to achieving that target, 
thanks  to  the  generous  support  of  international  partners, 
including the European Union, Japan, New Zealand, Italy, 
Austria,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the  International 
Union for Conservation of Nature and the International 
Renewable Energy Agency. Tuvalu is also a party to the 
Majuro Declaration.
towards 
Tuvalu  has  made  steady  progress 
the 
achievement of its MDGs, with strategic complementary 
assistance from the donor community. We have designed 
a  road  map  for  development  to  move  forward  from  the 
MDGs,  and  to  the  sustainable  development  goals  in 
general.  We  have  adopted  and  implemented  national 
policies  on  financial  management,  women  and  gender 
development, people with disabilities, young people and 
the protection of families, as well as on other sectors of 
national  priority,  such  as  climate  change,  energy,  food 
security,  fisheries,  information  technology,  health  care, 
education and outer islands development. Much needs to 
be done in order to properly deliver on those policies. We 
14-55126
27/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
are committed to doing that. We call for support from our 
international partners through mutual partnerships with us 
in Tuvalu.
The future we want is one of inclusiveness, where all 
partnerships  are  important.  The  Government  of  Tuvalu 
reiterates its position that the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo against Cuba runs counter to the need to 
promote dialogue and to fulfil the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  calls  for 
solidarity,  cooperation  and  friendly  relations  among  all 
nations.
Tuvalu  also  fully  supports  Taiwan’s  meaningful 
participation in United Nations specialized agencies and 
mechanisms, including the World  Health  Organization, 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change.  We  recognize  the  cooperative  spirit  shown  by 
Taiwan in its involvement in the post-2015 development 
agenda  dialogue.  We  recognize  the  need  to  include 
Taiwan in the global fight against climate change. We also 
recognize Taiwan’s role as a regional peacemaker. Taiwan 
supports  scholarships  and  capacity-building  for  experts, 
students and officials from Tuvalu and many developing 
countries.
Finally,  I  want  to  say  the  following  in  clear  and 
unambiguous  terms.  We  are  at  a  turning  point  for  the 
future  of  small  island  nations  such  as  Tuvalu.  We  can 
create MDGs and design sustainable development goals 
but, unless there is a global commitment to those goals, 
particularly  against  climate  change,  we  will  have  failed 
humankind. Unless we stop greenhouse gas pollution, we 
will have failed future generations. The future is ours to 
create. Let us be bold. Let us take heed of the strong and 
loud  message  from  those  on  the  front  line  that  we  have 
heard  here  in  this  very  Hall.  Let  us  be  seen  as  the  ones 
that created a future for all — a future that includes saving 
human beings and saving the children of Tuvalu. For if we 
save Tuvalu, we save the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Tuvalu 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Agila Saleh Essa Gwaider, President of the House of 
Representatives of Libya.
Mr. Gwaider (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  express  my  sincerest  congratulations  to 
Mr. Sam Kutesa on his assumption of the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I am confident 
that he will steer the work of this session towards the best 
results. Allow me also to commend the efforts of Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  for 
achieving  the  objectives  of  the  Organization  and  for 
promoting  international  peace  and  security.  I  would  like 
to  thank  him  in  particular  for  standing  with  the  Libyan 
people during the revolution against the dictatorship and 
for providing support for our nascent democracy after the 
revolution.
I  am  honoured  to  stand  before  members  today  as 
the representative of the Libyan people to describe their 
ambitions,  pains  and  hopes,  to  participate  in  the  quest 
for the best ways to maintain peace and security on our 
planet  and  to  achieve  the  common  aspirations  of  our 
peoples. There is no doubt that those who witnessed the 
revolution of the Libyan people against dictatorship in 
2011 were impressed by the courage, unity, awareness 
and creative capabilities of our people. But today there 
is  no  doubt  that  many  are  astonished  by  events  in 
Libya  —  the  fighting,  the  bloodshed  among  brothers, 
the unjustified destruction of infrastructure and public 
and  private  property.  Many  may  wonder,  where  are 
the  people  they  saw  three  years  ago?  Where  are  the 
unarmed revolutionaries who flocked into the streets, 
facing  bullets  with  their  bare  chests  to  defend  their 
rights?  Where  are  the  intellectuals  who  flooded  the 
media  with  realistic  assessments  and  convinced  the 
world of the justice of their people’s cause?
I would say, yes, that was the true Libyan people. 
They did not think in terms of material gains or leadership 
positions.  Their  only  aspiration  was  to  put  an  end  to 
dictatorship and pave the road for democracy to ensure 
a  prosperous  future  for  all  Libyans.  Unfortunately, 
Libya today is in a completely different situation. Most 
of  the  activists  have  left  the  political  arena,  either 
because of the forcibly imposed political isolation law 
or because of the campaigns of intimidation, arrests and 
assassinations  perpetrated  by  various  armed  groups 
against  anyone  who  opposes  their  views  or  calls  for 
their disarmament and demobilization.
Some  armed  groups  are  no  longer  subject  to  the 
Government’s  direction  as  they  try  to  impose  their 
will  on  the  Libyan  people  by  force,  violate  human 
rights  and  blackmail  the  Government  to  gain  access 
to  funds,  while  they  refuse  to  arm  the  police  and  to 
28/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
reinstitute, reconstruct and arm the army. The existing 
conflict  in  and  around  Tripoli  among  armed  groups 
that  opposed  the  legitimate  authorities  has  forced  the 
Government  to  evacuate  all  of  its  premises,  which 
were  seized  by  a  coalition  of  armed  groups.  Those 
included  a  terrorist  group  that  professes  Al-Qaida 
ideology and is known for its stand against the building 
of  State  institutions  —  a  group  placed  on  the  list  of 
terrorist  organizations  by  the  United  States  and  the 
European  Union.  Moreover,  the  residences  of  many 
ministers  and  citizens  were  looted  and  burned  down. 
That  group  is  still  waging  war  on  the  region  west  of 
the city of Tripoli, inhabited by the Warshafana tribe. 
The  indiscriminate  shelling  with  heavy  weaponry  led 
to the exodus of most of its population, which then led 
the  House  of  Representatives  to  declare  it  a  disaster 
area. That could not have happened if the international 
community had taken the situation in Libya seriously, 
assisted the Government in establishing a strong army, 
exerted  pressure  to  ensure  the  disarmament  of  armed 
groups and supported the arming of the police.
The  armed  groups  that  captured  the  capital  have 
clearly  declared  their  opposition  to  the  legitimate 
institutions  of  the  State  and  their  quest  to  overthrow 
the  elected  House  of  Representatives  and  the  elected 
Government, in an apparent effort to derail the process 
of  democratic  transition  and  topple  the  legitimate 
authorities  by 
forming  a  parallel  Government. 
Furthermore,  that  has  not  sufficed  for  the  group  that 
controls Tripoli. It has also persecuted political activists, 
human  rights  defenders  and  journalists,  shut  down 
media channels and forcibly prevented opponents from 
demonstrating in the city of Tripoli and other cities. It 
has recruited media personnel and some radical clerics 
to incite the killing of those with different opinions and 
those who support the elected House of Representatives 
and the Government.
The  group  has  allied  itself  with  Ansar  Al-Sharia, 
which  professes  the  ideology  of  Al-Qaida.  It  has 
practised  terrorism  in  some  Libyan  cities,  especially 
Benghazi and Derna. It has provided a safe haven and 
training  camps  for  terrorists  from  all  over  the  world, 
including  Tunisia,  Algeria,  Egypt  and  Mali,  with 
unrivalled financial and media support from outside the 
country,  in  order  to  undermine  the  legitimate  Libyan 
authorities and enable it to implement its conspiracy.
I wish the Assembly to know that turning a blind eye 
to terrorism in Libya is no longer acceptable. Our people 
can  no  longer  tolerate  assassinations,  humiliation, 
intimidation, suppression of freedoms or human rights 
violations  based  on  an  individual’s  background  and 
belief.  The  international  community  can  either  stand 
with  the  elected  legitimate  authorities  and  implement 
Security  Council  resolution  2174  (2014)  by  imposing 
sanctions  on  those  who  impede  the  political  process, 
undermine  security  and  seize  State  institutions,  or 
affirm loudly and clearly that the Libyans have to take 
on terrorism single-handedly. Surely, the international 
community  must  take  action  to  withstand  the  effects 
of the expansion of terrorism in North Africa and the 
Sahel region.
We  are  in  need  of  substantial  assistance  from 
Libya’s  friends  —  help  in  rebuilding  the  army  and 
providing it with all it needs to stop the fighting among 
brothers  and  battle  terrorism  and  extremism,  which 
now form a broad front stretching from Iraq to Algeria. 
That  front  cannot  be  eliminated  without  an  alliance 
of  the  States  concerned  to  ensure  the  elimination 
of  terrorism  and  guarantee  the  dissemination  of  the 
principles  of  tolerance  and  democracy.  The  failure  to 
provide arms and training to the Libyan army in its war 
against  terrorism  serves  the  interests  of  extremism, 
adds to instability in Libya, disrupts calm in the region 
and threatens global peace.
We  welcome  all  efforts  and  goodwill  by  friendly 
countries, the United Nations, the League of Arab States 
and  the  African  Union  to  help  the  legitimate  Libyan 
authorities regain control, either by taking a bold stand 
with the House of Representatives, the Government and 
the constitution-drafting body and by persuading armed 
groups  to  give  up  their  arms,  withdraw  from  State 
institutions  and  obey  the  Government’s  directions,  or 
by  exerting  pressure  on  the  political  movements  and 
armed groups so that they renounce violence and agree 
to a dialogue on the priorities and future of Libya.
Every  illegitimate  contact,  unauthorized  by  the 
Government, of any foreign country with individuals, 
groups  and  organizations  that  do  not  recognize  the 
Government’s  authority  or  that  of  the  elected  House 
of  Representatives  and  that  use  violence  as  a  means 
to  impose  their  views  on  the  Libyan  people  will  be 
considered by the Government an unfriendly act against 
the  unity  and  stability  of  Libya.  Hence,  all  necessary 
measures will be taken to confront it.
The  Libyan  people,  under  the  leadership  of  the 
legitimate authority, will not submit to blackmail and 
intimidation  and  will  resist  any  attempt  to  impose 
a  totalitarian  dictatorship,  whatever  its  slogan.  We 
14-55126
29/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
wish that the Government did not need the assistance 
of  brotherly  and  friendly  countries  to  extend  State 
authority over its territory and eliminate the terrorism 
and criminality that threaten Libya’s security and unity, 
causing the displacement of hundreds of thousands from 
their  homes  in  various  parts  of  Libya  and  destroying 
the economy.
The House of Representatives and the Government 
are  determined  to  pursue  the  path  of  dialogue  and 
tolerance  within  the  framework  of  legitimacy,  solve 
all  the  problems  and  differences  between  Libyans, 
agree on priorities, respect the democratic process and 
re-establish the rule of law and the holding of elections. 
They  are  also  determined  to  demobilize  all  armed 
groups  and  to  stop  their  funding  by  the  end  of  the 
current year. We hope that the international community 
will help us to carry out the following measures.
First,  we  must  ensure  the  establishment  by  the 
State  of  defence  and  security  organs  and  make  the 
Government  the  sole,  legitimate  authority  capable 
of  using  force  in  disarming  the  armed  groups  and 
exercising its authority over all Libya’s territory.
Secondly,  we  must  ensure  Government  control 
over the capital, Tripoli, and the withdrawal of armed 
groups from State institutions so that officials can work 
without  being  threatened  and  provide  services  to  the 
citizens.
Thirdly, we must realize that the establishment of 
illegal  institutions  set  up  in  parallel  with  the  existing 
bodies is impeding the political process and is subject 
to  sanctions  under  Security  Council  resolution  2174 
(2014).
Fourthly,  we  must  establish  genuine,  active 
cooperation in combating terrorism through a strategic 
alliance between Libya and its neighbouring countries 
north and south of the Mediterranean.
Lastly, we must strengthen the culture of dialogue, 
without exclusion or marginalization, and, with the help 
of  the  United  Nations  Support  Mission  in  Libya,  the 
neighbouring countries, the League of Arab States and 
the  African  Union,  initiate  a  comprehensive  dialogue 
for all Libyan people.
As  the  General  Assembly  begins  its  deliberations 
at its sixty-ninth session, whose main theme is the post-
2015  development  agenda,  I  would  like  to  point  out 
that  when  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  were 
set, Libya started to review its economic policies and 
restructure  its  economy  to  achieve  them.  However, 
the  deteriorating  security  situation  has  disrupted  the 
economy.  I  would  like  to  note  the  close  interlinkages 
among  security,  stability  and  development.  Without 
security, there will be no development, and vice versa. 
Therefore,  restoring  security  and  stability  in  Libya  is 
key to advancing development, bringing the disrupted 
economy  back  on  track,  achieving  the  remaining 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  preparing  to 
achieve the post-2015 development goals, once they are 
adopted.
Libya  looks  forward  to  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  friendly  countries  in  restoring  security 
and  the  capacity-building  of  military  and  security 
institutions in order to ensure the launch of programmes 
for  reconstruction  and  development.  We  also  look 
forward to the assistance of all countries in tracing looted 
funds abroad and repatriating them to enable Libya to 
increase  funding  for  development  and  infrastructure 
programmes.  That  will  help  eliminate  unemployment 
and absorb a large numbers of foreign workers, estimated 
at several millions, from neighbouring countries. Both 
Libya  and  the  neighbouring  countries  would  benefit, 
and illegal immigration to Europe of people in search 
of work and decent living conditions would be reduced.
Despite  the  circumstances  in  Libya,  we  cannot 
forget  the  tragedy  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  their 
suffering. They have taken refuge in various countries 
around the world because of the Israeli occupation. We 
reaffirm  our  condemnation  of  the  Israeli  occupation 
and its practices in the Palestinian and Arab occupied 
territories.  We  call  for  the  Security  Council  to 
provide  protection  for  the  Palestinian  people,  set  a 
timetable  to  end  the  Israeli  occupation  and  establish 
an independent and sovereign Palestinian State on all 
the  Palestinian  territories,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. The Palestinian State should be a full member 
of all international organizations. Palestinian refugees 
should be entitled to return to their lands, from which 
they were expelled.
The  continued  blockade  and  repeated  Israeli 
aggression against the Gaza Strip and the destruction 
of  infrastructure  have  brought  shame  on  civilized 
human beings. The international community should be 
committed  to  the  reconstruction  of  Gaza,  preventing 
the recurrence of destruction and killing by the Israeli 
army, ensuring the prosecution of all those responsible 
for  war  crimes  committed  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and 
supporting  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of  national 
30/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
reconciliation,  led  by  Palestinian  President  Mahmoud 
Abbas.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Tanasak  Patimapragorn,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Thailand.
Mr. Patimapragorn (Thailand): I am here to pay 
my country’s highest tribute to the United Nations for 
the  work  it  has  done  to  improve  the  lives  of  people 
around the world. Thailand is fully committed to what 
the United Nations stands for and to realizing through 
the United Nations the hopes we all share. We are also 
firmly  committed  to  fulfilling  our  responsibilities  as 
a  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  because  the  United 
Nations can achieve its vision only when we act together 
in unity.
This year, the theme is the post-2015 development 
agenda and how to truly make a difference in the lives 
of  the  people  on  the  ground.  Many  countries  have 
achieved many of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). For example, they have succeeded in reducing 
poverty and have achieved their education and health-
care goals. But there are many other countries for which 
achieving the MDGs has not been easy. Therefore, as 
we  move  towards  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
we must renew our commitments to make sure that no 
one is left behind.
For Thailand, development is not just about gross 
domestic product. To be sustainable, development must 
go  hand  in  hand  with  democracy,  human  rights  and 
peace  and  security,  the  pillars  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  must  be  allowed  to  grow  in  an  environment  that 
is  free  from  conflict.  Building  a  strong  and  robust 
democracy is the challenge that many of us face. As in 
many  countries,  Thailand  has  learned  the  lesson  that 
democracy is more than having elections. Democracy 
must be based on respect for the rule of law, and it must 
be about good governance, transparency, accountability 
and equal access to justice.
That was not the case for my country before 22 May. 
Before  that  date,  we  were  at  a  political  impasse.  We 
had a dysfunctional democracy. We were in danger of 
more  turmoil.  And  there  was  a  very  real  possibility 
of  bloodshed.  Political  opposition  parties  were  given 
the chance to save democracy, but they failed because 
they  were  unwilling  to  compromise  for  the  sake  of 
the  country.  That  chain  of  unfortunate  events  made 
the  military  intervention  necessary.  We  all  wished 
that things had not had to turn out that way. But if the 
situation  had  been  allowed  to  continue,  Thailand’s 
democracy  would  have  been  torn  apart.  That  would 
have undermined Thailand’s stability and the stability 
of the region.
Thailand is now going through a period of transition. 
We remain fully committed to democracy and human 
rights, and we know we cannot go against the tide of 
democracy.  Thailand  needs  a  real  and  functioning 
democracy,  one  that  delivers  on  the  aspirations  of 
the people. Let there be no doubt that Thailand is not 
retreating  from  democracy.  But  we  do  need  time  and 
space to bring about reconciliation, undertake political 
reform and strengthen our democratic institutions. We 
do not want a repeat of what happened on 22 May.
In  addition  to  implementing  our  road  map  for 
returning  to  full  democracy,  we  are  also  getting  our 
economy  moving  again.  Confidence  has  returned  and 
growth has been restored.
Thailand  is  committed  to  playing  an  active  role 
with  its  partners  in  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN) in order to build an ASEAN 
community of peace and prosperity. We are committed 
to  working  with  our  partners  in  the  international 
community  to  address  the  many  global  challenges 
we  face,  such  as  climate  change,  transnational  crime, 
pandemics and human trafficking. Most of all, we are 
committed  to  working  with  our  partners  to  realize 
the  development  agenda,  because  real  and  lasting 
peace  is  based  not  on  State-centred  security  but  on 
people-centred security.
Development  must  transform  people’s  lives  and 
open  the  door  to  a  better  future  for  all.  Development 
must empower individuals, communities and societies. 
That  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  sufficiency-economy 
philosophy  of  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Thailand,  and 
that philosophy has guided our development efforts for 
decades. The sufficiency economy is about promoting 
the right values, drawing on the inner strengths of each 
community  and  building  resilience  from  the  grass-
roots  level  up.  In  doing  so,  we  are  able  to  lay  a  solid 
foundation  for  sustainable  economic  development  at 
the national level.
But in today’s world, no nation can be an island of 
prosperity unto itself. More than ever, we need a strong 
global partnership, whether in order to realize the post-
2015 development agenda or to meet shared challenges.
First  of  all,  that  partnership  must  meet  the 
challenge of human security, the most pressing of our 
14-55126
31/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
time. Human security is about human dignity, human 
rights, equity, equality and social justice, the promise 
of a better future for all and ensuring that in our rush 
for  development  we  do  not  sacrifice  the  environment 
that sustains us. Ensuring human security should be at 
the heart of sustainable development.
with  many  challenges  such  as  natural  disasters.  That 
is why Thailand is promoting humanitarian assistance 
and  disaster  relief  cooperation  in  the  ASEAN  region 
and beyond. Perhaps the time has come for ASEAN to 
begin  to  explore  the  idea  of  a  regional  humanitarian 
assistance disaster recovery task force.
But while we advance the development agenda, we 
cannot  ignore  the  immediate  threats  that  require  our 
concerted action. Today we are confronted with some 
immediate threats to the global partnership, such as the 
Ebola crisis and the humanitarian crises in the Middle 
East — Syria, Libya, Iraq and the Gaza Strip. It pains 
us to witness the senseless death of civilians, especially 
children, in the conflict in the Gaza Strip. The situation 
demands that we work even harder to bring lasting peace 
to the Palestinian people and to meet their aspirations 
to statehood, as well as to affirm the legitimate right of 
the Israeli people to security.
As  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  unfolds,  we 
are  also  deeply  concerned  about  the  rising  threat 
of  radicalism  and  extremism.  There  can  be  no 
justification  for  the  brutalities  and  atrocities  we  have 
seen.  We  must  rise  to  that  challenge  to  peace,  to  our 
peoples’ livelihoods and to the gains we have made in 
economic and social development. While some radical 
and  extremist  movements  have  indeed  been  able  to 
draw recruits from many parts the world, their mission 
is nothing more than the use of terrorism and fear of to 
advance their objectives.
Our  peace  and  security  and  development  are 
all  connected.  In  order  to  achieve  them,  we  must  all 
try  to  contribute  as  much  as  we  can  and  to  meet  our 
international  responsibilities  as  best  we  can.  Some  of 
us may have the capacity to do more than others. But 
if we all do our part, we can make the world better and 
safer.  That  is  why  Thailand  has  sent  volunteers  to  its 
neighbours to work in health and education and why we 
sent medical teams to Japan in 2011 as part of the relief 
efforts following the earthquake and tsunami.
The  Thai  flag  and  Thai  personnel  have  been 
associated  with  peacekeeping  operations  in  many 
places around the world. We were in Timor-Leste and 
in  the  Sudan,  and  along  the  India-Pakistan  border. 
And  we  were  part  of  the  coalition  formed  to  combat 
piracy  in  the  Gulf  of  Aden  off  the  coast  of  Somalia. 
The role of the military, however, is not limited to war 
and conflict alone. Even in times of peace it plays an 
important  role,  especially  now,  when  we  are  dealing 
The President returned to the Chair.
As  members  of  the  international  community, 
we  must  all  share  the  responsibility  to  stay  true  to 
the  original  promise  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
is  to  promote  social  progress  and  better  standards  of 
living  in  larger  freedom  for  the  peoples  of  the  world. 
It is because of Thailand’s commitment to the United 
Nations that we have submitted our candidature for a 
seat  on  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  2015-2017 
term  and  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  2017-2018 
term. We hope our friends will once again give us their 
trust and allow us to serve.
Whether  the  issue  is  democracy,  development  or 
peace, we all must assume our responsibilities because 
we are, after all, a family of United Nations.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Frank-Walter  Steinmeier,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Steinmeier  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  The  year 
2014  is  a  special  one  for  Europeans  —  a  special  year 
of  commemoration.  In  the  summer  100  years  ago, 
European diplomacy failed and the world slid into the 
First  World  War.  Seventy-five  years  ago,  Germany 
attacked its neighbour Poland, plunging the world into 
the  Second  World  War.  Twenty-five  years  ago,  the 
Berlin Wall fell, bringing an end to the world’s decades-
long division into East and West.
However, merely to look back and remember would 
not be enough in this year of commemoration. On the 
contrary, we must ask ourselves: what have we learned 
for  the  future?  The  most  important  lesson  learned 
from that history was the establishment of the United 
Nations,  for  the  United  Nations  embodies  the  world’s 
hope for peace. That hope derives from an idea which 
is as simple as it is revolutionary: there is peace when 
the  world  sets  rules  for  itself  and  replaces  the  law  of 
force with the force of law, when conflicts are resolved 
at the negotiating table and not on the battlefield, when 
the world renounces, step by step, the cynical logic of 
violence.
32/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
To date, the United Nations has provided a universal 
foundation for the hope for peace. But that universality 
is under threat from the ghosts of the past and from new 
demons.
In 2014 our world seems to be unraveling. Crises are 
coming at us thick and fast. That is why it is not enough 
simply to call upon the United Nations. No, we need to 
breathe life into that call. Hope will remain but a hope, 
an unattainable goal, unless States are prepared to take 
on  responsibility.  The  United  Nations  is  not  a  forum 
onto which we can shrug off responsibility. The United 
Nations is a forum whereby we assume responsibility.
Germany, embedded in a united Europe, is prepared 
to take on responsibility in and with the United Nations. 
First and foremost we have a responsibility to the people 
bearing the brunt of the suffering in the crises.
Next  month  Germany  will  host  a  conference  in 
Berlin  to  mobilize  urgently  needed  humanitarian 
assistance  for  the  millions  of  Syrian  refugees.  My 
country  will  play  its  part,  and  I  sincerely  hope  that 
many others will follow suit. Support is needed above 
all by Syria’s neighbours. They are doing a tremendous 
job but are also under tremendous strain due to the huge 
influx of displaced persons and refugees from Syria.
The  Ebola  epidemic  is  raging  in  West  Africa. 
It  is  bringing  suffering  and  death  into  the  homes  of 
individual  families.  It  is  endangering  the  cohesion 
of  entire  societies.  That  is  why  we  are  sending 
humanitarian and medical assistance and setting up an 
airlift to the region. I am delighted that many volunteers 
in  my  country  have  responded  to  the  call,  saying,  “I 
want to go there to help on the spot”.
the 
Above  and  beyond 
immediate  solidarity, 
however,  we  need  a  long-term  commitment.  We  need 
the  expertise  of  the  World  Health  Organization  and 
the  coordinating  umbrella  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  in  the  long  term  as  we  try  to  strengthen 
States and health-care systems. Germany will contribute 
to both of those goals. We cannot bring the dead back to 
life, but we may be able to prevent far too many more 
people dying of Ebola who ought not to be dying if they 
were treated. And we must certainly make sure that the 
next epidemic does not have consequences as deadly as 
the one we are still fighting.
If we are to move towards the hope of peace, we need 
many  small  steps  —  the  commitment  of  individuals, 
bilateral  diplomacy  and  regional  initiatives.  But  none 
of that can replace the United Nations. Only the United 
Nations can provide a universal foundation for the hope 
of peace. That foundation is international law, to which 
everyone who belongs to the community of nations in 
the United Nations, and those who want to belong, has 
subscribed. That is what must be preserved; that is the 
core of our hope for peace.
That  is  why  I  must  here  mention  the  conflict 
in  Ukraine.  Some  people  in  the  Hall  may  regard  it 
as  nothing  more  than  a  regional  conflict  in  Eastern 
Europe. But I am convinced that that view is incorrect. 
I believe that that conflict affects each and every one of 
us. Not just any State, but a permanent member of the 
Security Council — Russia — has, with its annexation 
of  Crimea,  unilaterally  altered  existing  borders  in 
Europe  and  has  thus  violated  international  law.  We 
must counter that dangerous sign, because we must not 
allow the power of international law to be eroded from 
the inside. We must not allow the old divisions between 
East and West to re-emerge in the United Nations.
Because  so  much  is  at  stake  in  that  conflict,  not 
only for the people of Ukraine but also for the future of 
international law, Germany and its partners have taken 
on responsibility and committed themselves vigorously 
to  defusing  the  conflict.  I  am  under  no  illusion:  a 
political solution is still a long way off. However, just a 
few weeks ago we were on the brink of a direct military 
confrontation  between  Russian  and  Ukrainian  armed 
forces. I am happy to say that diplomacy prevented the 
worst. Now the priority must be to bring about a lasting 
ceasefire and achieve a political solution, one based on 
the principles of the United Nations and preserving the 
unity of Ukraine.
I am not discussing only Ukraine. As long as that 
conflict  is  simmering  and  as  long  as  Russia  and  the 
West  are  in  a  dispute  over  Ukraine,  there  is  a  threat 
of paralysing the United Nations. We therefore need a 
Security Council that is able and willing to act to tackle 
the new and, in the long term, far more important tasks 
we are facing. The world of 2014 is plagued not only by 
the old ghost of division, but also by new demons.
We are all shocked by the unspeakable brutality of 
the terrorists who misuse the name of God in carrying 
out  their  evil  deeds.  My  question  is,  ought  we  not  to 
be  particularly  worried  that  the  preachers  of  hate  are 
drawing  in  young  people  who  have  grown  up  in  the 
midst of our own societies?
That is why that, too, is not exclusively a regional 
conflict — a problem in Iraq or in Syria or in Africa, 
14-55126
33/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
where terrorists are stamping on the fundamental rights 
of  women  and  girls  in  particular.  That  barbarity  is 
directed against every one of us, and against everything 
for which the United Nations stands.
Precisely  for  that  reason,  our  response  needs 
to  go  much  further  than  the  immediately  necessary 
humanitarian  and  military  response.  Germany 
is 
making  substantial  contributions  to  both,  including 
militarily. But all that must be part of a political alliance 
against the terror of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. 
My country is strongly committed to that alliance, and 
I very much hope in particular that the societies of the 
Middle East, realizing that far more is at stake than just 
their security, will also join.
In  a  world  haunted  both  by  old  ghosts  and  new 
demons, we have to be able to pursue both paths. On the 
one hand, we must steadfastly continue to work towards 
political  solutions  in  Ukraine,  in  the  Middle  East,  in 
Syria,  but  at  the  same  time  we  must  tackle  the  huge 
tasks of the twenty-first century.
I am referring to the fight against climate change. 
Germany is contributing $1 billion dollars to the Green 
Climate Fund. And we will support our closest partner, 
France, on the road to a successful Paris climate summit 
in 2015 and to a universal and legally binding climate 
convention, which we urgently need.
I  am  also  referring  to  the  digital  age.  Yes,  the 
Internet should be a global, free, open and safe space. 
But that is not a matter solely for Government agencies 
or big companies. That global, free, open and safe space 
must be shaped by society as a whole. If we fail to act, 
the vast technological possibilities will sweep aside the 
human dimension. We need an international law for the 
digital world. Resolution 68/167, which we introduced 
together with Brazil, has made a start in that direction, 
I hope, at the United Nations.
I am also referring to the post-2015 agenda, because 
the  fight  against  poverty  begins  with  asking  how  we 
actually  create  value.  How  do  we  create  prosperity? 
That  question  is  not  only  directed  at  a  few  countries 
in need of help. Rather, it is a call to the whole world 
for more sustainable economic activity. With its shift to 
renewable energies, Germany has set out on a path that, 
although not easy, is one the world must take if we want 
to  preserve  our  natural  resources  and  if  the  fight  for 
scarce resources, water and arable land is not to become 
the major conflict of the twenty-first century.
Our  children  will  judge  us  by  those  huge  tasks. 
They  will  look  back,  just  as  we  are  looking  back  at 
our forebears in this year of commemoration. Having 
learned from two World Wars, our forebears established 
the United Nations as their lesson to us. If we want to 
continue  that  lesson,  if  we  want  to  master  the  tasks 
facing us, then we must further develop this institution. 
The United Nations is not a finished product. Perhaps it 
will never be a finished product. It must evolve further, 
so that in all its parts, including the Security Council, it 
reflects today’s world.
I  believe  that  the  United  Nations  is  worth  every 
effort, for in it lives the world’s hope for peace and a 
legal order. I assure the Assembly that my country will 
play its part in making that hope a reality, step by step.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Russian Federation.
Mr. Lavrov (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
There  is  growing  evidence  today  of  a  contradiction 
between the need for collective and partnership efforts 
in order to develop adequate responses to the challenges 
common to us all, on the one hand, and, on the other, 
the aspiration of a number of States to domination and 
a revival of the archaic bloc thinking based on military 
drill discipline and the erroneous logic of friend or foe.
The  United  States-led  Western  alliance,  which 
portrays itself as a champion of democracy, the rule of 
law and human rights within individual countries, acts 
from  a  directly  opposite  position  in  the  international 
arena,  rejecting  the  democratic  principles  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  enshrined  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  trying  to  decide  for  everyone 
what is good or evil.
Washington  has  openly  declared  its  right  to  the 
unilateral  use  of  military  force  anywhere  to  advocate 
its  own  interests.  Military  interference  has  become  a 
norm, despite the dismal outcome of all the operations 
involving  the  use  of  force  that  the  United  States  has 
carried out in recent years.
The sustainability of the international system has 
been  severely  shaken  by  the  NATO  bombardment  of 
Yugoslavia, the intervention in Iraq, the attack against 
Libya and the failure in Afghanistan. It was due only 
to intensive diplomatic efforts that aggression against 
Syria  was  prevented  in  2013.  The  various  colour 
revolutions  and  other  schemes  aimed  at  changing 
34/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
unsuitable regimes inevitably give the impression that 
their goal is to create chaos and instability.
Today  Ukraine  has  fallen  victim  to  that  policy. 
The  situation  there  has  revealed  the  deep-rooted  and 
systemic flaws remaining in the existing Euro-Atlantic 
architecture.  The  West  has  embarked  on  a  course 
towards a vertical structuring of humankind tailored to 
its own standards, which are hardly inoffensive.
After  the  West  declared  victory  in  the  Cold  War 
and the so-called end of history, the United States and 
the  European  Union  opted  to  expand  the  geopolitical 
area  under  their  control  without  taking  into  account 
the  balance  of  legitimate  interests  of  all  the  peoples 
of  Europe.  The  Western  partners  did  not  heed  our 
numerous  warnings  with  regard  to  the  unacceptable 
violations of the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the Helsinki Final Act, and time and again 
they  have  avoided  serious  joint  work  to  establish  a 
common  space  of  equal  and  indivisible  security  and 
cooperation from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans.
The Russian proposal to draft a European security 
treaty was rejected. We were told directly that only the 
members of the North Atlantic Alliance can have legally 
binding security guarantees, and the NATO expansion 
to  the  East  continued  in  spite  of  the  promises  to  the 
contrary given earlier. NATO’s instant switch to hostile 
rhetoric and the reduction of its cooperation with Russia, 
even to the detriment of the West’s own interests, and 
the additional build-up of military infrastructure along 
Russia’s borders revealed the inability of the Alliance 
to change the genetic code embedded in it during the 
Cold War.
The United States and the European Union supported 
the  coup  d’état  in  Ukraine,  recklessly  justifying  any 
acts  by  the  self-proclaimed  Kyiv  authorities,  who 
opted  to  suppress  by  force  that  part  of  the  Ukrainian 
people  who  had  rejected  the  attempts  to  impose  an 
anti-constitutional  order  throughout  the  country  and 
wanted to defend their rights to their native language, 
culture and history. It is precisely the aggressive assault 
on those rights that compelled the population of Crimea 
to take its destiny in its own hands and make a choice 
in favour of self-determination. That was an absolutely 
free  choice,  no  matter  what  was  invented  by  those 
who were responsible in the first place for the internal 
conflict in Ukraine.
There  have  been  attempts  to  distort  the  truth  and 
hide facts behind blanket accusations at all stages of the 
Ukrainian crisis. Nothing has been done to track down 
and prosecute those responsible for the bloody February 
events at Maidan and the massive loss of human lives 
in Odessa, Mariupol and other regions of Ukraine. The 
scale of the appalling humanitarian disaster provoked 
by  the  acts  of  the  Ukrainian  army  in  south-eastern 
Ukraine has been deliberately understated.
Recently, horrifying new facts came to light when 
mass  graves  were  discovered  near  Donetsk.  Despite 
Security  Council  resolution  2166  (2014),  a  thorough 
and  independent  investigation  into  the  circumstances 
of  the  loss  of  Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17  over 
Ukrainian territory has been delayed. Those guilty for 
all those crimes must be found and brought to justice. 
Otherwise,  national  reconciliation  in  Ukraine  can 
hardly be expected.
Russia is sincerely interested in the restoration of 
peace in a neighbouring country, and that should be well 
understood by anyone even slightly acquainted with the 
deep-rooted  and  fraternal  relations  between  the  two 
peoples.  The  path  to  a  political  settlement  is  known. 
As early as this April, Kyiv made a commitment in the 
Geneva Statement on Ukraine — agreed upon by Russia, 
Ukraine,  the  United  States  and  the  European  Union 
(EU)  —  to  immediately  start  a  nation-wide  dialogue 
involving all of Ukraine’s regions and political forces 
to  implement  constitutional  reforms.  The  fulfilment 
of that obligation would allow all Ukrainians to agree 
on how to live in accordance with their traditions and 
culture and would allow Ukraine to return to its organic 
role as a link between the different parts of the European 
space,  which  certainly  implies  the  preservation  and 
respect by everyone of its non-aligned, neutral status. 
We  are  convinced  that  with  goodwill  and  the  refusal 
to support the party of war in Kyiv, which is trying to 
push  the  Ukrainian  people  into  the  abyss  of  national 
catastrophe, a way out of the crisis is within reach.
A way to overcome the situation has opened with 
a  ceasefire  agreement  for  south-eastern  Ukraine  on 
the  basis  of  initiatives  of  Presidents  Poroshenko  and 
Putin. With the participation of representatives of Kyiv, 
Donetsk,  Luhansk,  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  Russia,  practical 
measures  are  being  agreed  on  for  the  consecutive 
realization of those agreements, including the separation 
of the parties, the withdrawal of the heavy weapons of 
the Ukrainian military forces and of the militias, and 
the organization of monitoring through the OSCE.
14-55126
35/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
Russia  is  ready  to  continue  to  actively  promote  a 
political  settlement,  both  under  the  framework  of  the 
well-known  recommendations  of  the  Minsk  process 
and in other formats. But it should be quite clear that 
we  are  doing  this  for  the  sake  of  peace,  tranquillity 
and the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and not to 
appease someone’s ambitions. Attempts to put pressure 
on Russia to force it to abandon its values   of truth and 
justice are absolutely futile.
I will allow myself a digression into recent history. 
As  a  condition  for  the  establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1933,  the  United 
States Government demanded from Moscow guarantees 
of non-interference in the internal affairs of the United 
States, obligations not to undertake any actions aimed at 
changing the political and social structure of America. 
At that time, Washington feared the revolutionary virus, 
and  such  guarantees  were  secured  between  America 
and the Soviet Union, on the basis of reciprocity.
Perhaps  it  makes  sense  to  return  to  that  subject 
and  reproduce  the  then  demand  of  the  American 
Government  on  a  universal  scale.  Why  not  adopt  a 
General Assembly declaration about the inadmissibility 
of  interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  sovereign 
States  and  non-recognition  of  coups  d’état  as  a 
method  of  regime  change?  It  is  time  to  fully  exclude 
from  international  interaction  attempts  at  illegitimate 
pressure by some States against others. The meaningless 
and counterproductive nature of unilateral sanctions is 
obvious  in  the  example  of  the  American  blockade  of 
Cuba.
A  policy  of  ultimatums  and  a  philosophy  of 
superiority  and  domination  do  not  meet  the  needs 
of  the  twenty-first  century;  they  are  in  conflict  with 
the  objective  processes  of  forming  a  polycentric, 
democratic  world  order.  Russia  promotes  a  positive, 
unifying agenda. We have always been and will be open 
to  discussing  the  most  difficult  questions,  no  matter 
how  intractable  they  may  seem  at  first.  We  will  be 
ready to seek a compromise and a balance of interests 
and  to  agree  to  exchange  concessions,  provided  only 
that the conversation is respectful and equitable.
Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, as Mr. Putin suggested 
back in January.
Russia has consistently advocated the harmonization 
of 
integration  projects 
in  Europe  and  Eurasia. 
Agreement  on  political  benchmarks  and  terms  such 
as  “convergence  of  integration”  would  be  a  real 
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  OSCE  on  the  topic 
of  Helsinki+40.  Another  important  aspect  of  that 
work  would  be  to  launch  a  pragmatic,  de-ideologized 
conversation  on  politico-military  architecture  in  the 
Euro-Atlantic area, so that not only members of NATO 
and of the Collective Security Treaty Organization but 
all the countries of the region, including Ukraine, the 
Republic of Moldova and Georgia, would enjoy equal 
and  indivisible  security  and  not  have  to  make  a  false 
choice of “either with us, or against us”. New dividing 
lines must not be allowed in Europe, especially because 
in  the  context  of  globalization  they  could  become  a 
watershed between the West and the rest of the world.
It  must  be  stated  honestly  that  no  one  has  a 
monopoly on the truth; no one can forcibly tailor global 
and regional processes to suit their needs. Today there 
is no alternative to developing consensus on the rules 
of sustainable global governance in the new historical 
conditions,  with  full  respect  for  the  cultural  and 
civilizational diversity of the world and the multiplicity 
of  development  models.  To  attain  such  a  consensus 
on  every  issue  will  be  difficult,  perhaps  tedious.  But 
recognizing that in every State democracy is “the worst 
form of Government except for all the others” also took 
a  long  time,  not  until  Churchill  issued  his  verdict.  It 
is time to recognize the inevitability of that axiom in 
international affairs, which currently suffer from a huge 
deficit of democracy. Of course, someone will have to 
break  the  age-old  stereotypes,  to  abandon  claims  to 
eternal exceptionalism. But there is no other way.
United efforts can be built only on the principles of 
mutual respect and mutual consideration of interests, as 
is done, for example, within the Security Council, the 
Group of 20, the BRICS States of Brazil, Russia, India, 
China and South Africa, and the Shanghai Cooperation 
Council.
The Minsk Agreement of 5 and 19 September about 
the ways out of the Ukrainian crisis and the compromise 
about  the  dates  of  entry  into  force  of  the  Association 
Agreement between Kyiv and the European Union are 
good examples to emulate, as is the readiness, at last, 
of Brussels to begin negotiations on establishing a free 
trade area between the EU and the Customs Union of 
the  situation  concerning 
The  theory  of  the  advantages  of  collective  work 
are  confirmed  in  practice,  for  instance,  the  progress 
in  settling 
the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme  and  the  successful  completion  of 
the  chemical  demilitarization  of  Syria.  By  the  way, 
speaking of chemical weapons, I would like to obtain 
honest  information  on  the  state  of  Libya’s  chemical 
36/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
arsenals.  We  understand  that  our  NATO  colleagues, 
having  bombed  the  country  in  violation  of  Security 
Council resolutions, do not want to stir up the disorder 
they  created.  However,  the  problem  of  uncontrolled 
Libyan chemical arsenals is too serious to turn a blind 
eye to. We believe the Secretary-General must show his 
responsibility in that matter.
The main thing today is to see the global priorities 
and avoid making them hostage to a one-sided agenda. 
There  is  an  urgent  need  to  refrain  from  double 
standards  in  approaches  to  conflict  resolution.  By 
and  large,  everybody  agrees  that  the  key  task  is  to 
resolutely  counter  the  terrorists,  who  are  trying  to 
gain control of increasingly larger areas of Iraq, Syria, 
Libya, Afghanistan and the Sahel-Sahara region. That 
being  the  case,  that  problem  cannot  be  sacrificed  to 
ideological  schemes  or  to  settle  a  score.  Terrorists, 
whatever slogans they hide behind, must be outlawed.
At  the  same  time,  of  course,  the  fight  against 
terrorism  should  be  based  on  the  solid  foundation  of 
international  law.  An  important  stage  in  that  fight 
was  the  unanimous  adoption  of  a  series  of  Security 
Council  resolutions,  including  those  on  the  issue  of 
foreign terrorist fighters. On the other hand, attempts 
to  act  contrary  to  the  Charter  of  our  Organization 
do  not  contribute  to  the  success  of  joint  efforts.  The 
fight  against  terrorists  in  Syria  should  be  built  on 
cooperation  with  the  Syrian  Government,  which  has 
clearly stated its willingness in that regard. Damascus 
has already demonstrated its ability to cooperate with 
the international community and to fulfil its obligations 
in the framework of the programme for eliminating its 
chemical weapons.
From  the  very  outset  of  the  Arab  Spring,  Russia 
urged  that  it  not  be  abandoned  to  the  control  of 
extremists, that a united front be created to counter the 
growing  terrorist  threat.  We  have  warned  against  the 
temptation to take as allies almost anyone who declared 
himself  an  enemy  of  Bashar  Al-Assad,  whether 
Al-Qaida, Jabhat Al-Nusra and other fellow travellers 
of  regime  change,  including  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq 
and  the  Levant  (ISIL),  which  today  is  the  focus  of 
attention. As they say, better late than never. This is not 
the first time that Russia is making a real contribution 
to the fight against ISIL and other terrorist groups in 
the  region.  We  are  delivering  large-scale  supplies  of 
arms and military equipment to Iraq, Syria and other 
Middle  Eastern  and  North  African  countries,  and  we 
will  continue  to  support  their  efforts  to  suppress  the 
terrorists.
The  terrorist  threat  requires  a  comprehensive 
approach  if  we  want  to  eradicate  its  causes  and  not 
be  doomed  to  reacting  to  the  symptoms.  ISIL  is  only 
part of the problem. We propose to organize, under the 
auspices of the Security Council, an in-depth study of 
the  threat  of  extremism  and  terrorism  in  all  of  their 
aspects throughout the Middle East and North African 
region.  That  integrated  approach  also  presupposes 
that  chronic  conflicts  should  be  considered,  above 
all  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  The  failure  to  settle  the 
Palestinian  issue  over  several  decades  remains,  as  is 
widely recognized, one of the main factors of instability 
in the region, and that helps extremists to recruit more 
and more new jihadists.
Another  area  of  our  common  work  together 
demanding attention is uniting our efforts to implement 
the  decisions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council  to  combat  the  Ebola  virus.  Our  doctors  are 
already  working  in  Africa.  There  are  plans  to  send 
additional humanitarian assistance, medical equipment 
and instruments, medicine and teams of experts to assist 
the United Nations programmes in Guinea, Liberia and 
Sierra Leone.
The  United  Nations  was  established  on  the  ruins 
of  the  Second  World  War,  and  it  is  entering  the  year 
of its seventieth anniversary. We all have an obligation 
to celebrate in an appropriate manner the anniversary 
of the great victory and to pay tribute to the memory 
of all who perished for freedom and the right of each 
people  to  determine  their  own  destiny.  The  lessons 
of that terrible war and the entire course of events in 
today’s world require us to join efforts and forget about 
unilateral interests and national electoral cycles when 
it comes to countering global threats to all humankind. 
National egoism should not be allowed to prevail over 
collective responsibility.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Wang  Yi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
People’s Republic of China.
Mr. Wang Yi (China) (spoke in Chinese): This year 
marks the centenary of the outbreak of the First World 
War. A distinguished thinker in modern China, Yan Fu, 
described the devastation caused by the war: “How sad 
that the air is heavy with the stench of war”.
14-55126
37/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
Next year will be the seventieth anniversary of the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  Over  2  billion  people 
across  the  world  were  affected  by  that  calamity.  In 
China  alone,  the  aggression  committed  by  Japanese 
militarists  left  more  than  35  million  Chinese  soldiers 
and civilians dead or injured.
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  keep  the 
scourge of the two World Wars from occurring again, 
and  it  embodies  the  fervent  hope  of  all  countries  for 
peace  and  stability.  To  achieve  that  goal,  the  Charter 
of the United Nations presented a grand vision of joint 
efforts to build a better world.
In this world, we should treat each other as equals. 
The  principles  of  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
must  be  upheld.  The  pursuit  by  different  countries  of 
economic  and  social  development  must  be  respected. 
Their  right  to  independently  choose  their  own  social 
systems  and  development  paths  must  be  safeguarded. 
We  should  be  open  and  inclusive.  Only  in  that  way 
can  we  open  the  door  of  dialogue  and  exchange  and 
achieve harmony among countries with different social 
systems,  religions  and  cultural  traditions.  We  should 
pursue mutually beneficial cooperation. Each country 
should align its own interests with those of others and 
work to maximize areas where their interests converge.
Only by helping one another can countries prosper. 
We should jointly initiate a new thinking for win-win 
and all-win progress and reject the old notion of a zero-
sum game, or the winner takes all. We should uphold 
justice. It is imperative to promote greater democracy 
and the rule of law in international relations, to apply 
fair  and  just  rules  to  tell  right  from  wrong  and  settle 
disputes, and to pursue peace and development within 
the framework of international law. All parties should 
jointly  uphold  the  authority  and  effectiveness  of  the 
United  Nations  and  reform  and  improve  the  global 
governance structure.
As we have seen in Gaza, Iraq, the Central African 
Republic  and  South  Sudan,  our  world  is  far  from 
peaceful. In the face of all those who have been killed 
in  war,  we  must  ask  ourselves  how  we  can  keep  the 
tragedies  from  recurring.  In  the  face  of  women  and 
children displaced by fighting, we must ask ourselves 
when  they  can  return  home.  In  the  face  of  incessant 
conflicts, we must ask ourselves how we can open the 
door to lasting peace. To address those problems, China 
believes that we should do the following.
First,  we  should  seek  political  solutions.  To  beat 
swords into ploughshares may take time and effort, but 
history  and  reality  have  repeatedly  demonstrated  that 
to meet violence with violence will not lead to enduring 
peace,  and  the  use  of  force  will  only  create  more 
problems  than  solutions.  Coercive  action  should  be 
authorized by the Security Council. If a country places 
its domestic law above international law and interferes 
in other countries’ internal affairs at will, or even seeks 
regime change, the international community cannot but 
question the legitimacy of its actions.
Secondly,  we  should  accommodate  the  interests 
of  all  parties.  Parties  to  a  conflict  should  reject  the 
zero-sum  approach,  address  each  other’s  concerns  in 
negotiations  and  endeavour  to  meet  each  other  half 
way. They should seek to meet their legitimate concerns 
through  consultations  in  a  mutually  accommodating 
way.  When  conducting  mediation,  the  international 
community should uphold justice and take an objective 
and balanced position. Countries should not be partial 
to any party in the conflict. Still less should they avail 
themselves  of  the  opportunity  to  pursue  their  own 
agenda.
Thirdly, we should promote national reconciliation. 
The  ongoing  armed  conflicts  are  largely  caused  by 
ethnic and sectarian tensions. The process of national 
reconciliation  and  the  process  of  political  settlement 
should  be  advanced  in  tandem  with  each  other.  All 
parties  should  uphold  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, develop and practice a culture of inclusion and 
tolerance and uproot the seeds of hatred and retaliation, 
so  that  the  fruit  of  inclusion  and  amity  will  grow  on 
post-conflict land.
Fourthly,  we  should  uphold  multilateralism.  We 
should give full play to the role of the United Nations 
and  observe  international  law  and  the  basic  norms 
governing  international  relations.  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter is not the only means for the Security Council 
to maintain international peace and security. We should 
make  better  and  full  use  of  the  means  of  prevention, 
mediation and conciliation stipulated in Chapter VI.
Given their familiarity with local developments, we 
should leverage the strengths of regional organizations 
and countries and support them in addressing regional 
issues in ways suited to their regions.
The  conflicts  in  Ukraine  remain  a  cause  of 
concern. We welcome and support the Minsk ceasefire 
agreement  and  urge  all  parties  in  Ukraine  to  strictly 
38/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
implement  it  and  seek  a  comprehensive,  sustained 
and  balanced  political  solution 
through  political 
dialogue and negotiation. China hopes that the various 
ethnic  groups  in  Ukraine  will  live  in  harmony  and 
that  Ukraine  will  live  in  peace  with  other  countries. 
That  is  the  fundamental  way  for  Ukraine  to  achieve 
long-term  stability  and  security.  China  hopes  that 
the  United  Nations  will  play  its  due  role  in  finding  a 
proper solution to the Ukrainian crisis and supports the 
international community’s constructive efforts to ease 
the humanitarian situation in eastern Ukraine.
China  supports  Iraq  in  upholding  its  sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity. The formation of 
the  new  Iraqi  Government  has  provided  an  important 
opportunity.  We  hope  that  the  Iraqi  Government  will 
lead  its  people  in  a  joint  endeavour  to  develop  their 
country  in  the  spirit  of  inclusion  and  reconciliation. 
China calls for providing more humanitarian assistance 
to  support  Iraq.  To  help  the  Iraqi  people  overcome 
difficulties and to achieve peace and stability in their 
country is the shared responsibility of the international 
community.
China firmly opposes all terrorist acts and supports 
the  international  community  in  responding  to  the 
threat  posed  by  terrorist  forces  in  a  coordinated  and 
concerted way in accordance with the relevant Security 
Council resolutions. China believes that in conducting 
international counter-terrorism cooperation, we should 
take  a  multipronged  approach  and  address  both  the 
symptoms  and  root  causes  of  terrorism,  and  that  the 
United Nations and the Security Council should fully 
play leading roles. There should be no double standard 
when  it  comes  to  fighting  terrorism;  still  less  should 
terrorism be identified with any particular ethnic group 
or religion.
As  new  developments  emerge  in  the  global  fight 
against terrorism, the international community should 
take  new  measures  to  address  them.  In  particular,  it 
should  focus  on  combating  religious  extremism  and 
cyberterrorism, resolutely eliminate the root causes of 
terrorism  and  extremism,  block  channels  that  spread 
them and crack down hard and effectively on the use of 
the Internet and other new means of communication by 
terrorists to instigate, recruit, finance or plot terrorist 
attacks.
The  Syrian  crisis  has  continued  for  nearly  four 
years.  It  is  negotiation,  not  fighting,  that  offers 
solutions.  China  urges  all  parties  in  Syria  to  end  the 
fighting and violence immediately, cooperate fully with 
United Nations humanitarian assistance operations and 
help bring an end to the suffering of innocent civilians 
as soon as possible. We urge all the parties to act in the 
overall interests of the future and fate of their country 
and  people,  demonstrate  the  necessary  political  will, 
actively support the mediation efforts of the Secretary-
General  and  his  Special  Envoy,  and  follow  a  middle 
way  that  draws  on  workable  practices  from  other 
countries and regions, suits Syria’s national conditions 
and accommodates the interests of various parties, in 
order to give peace a chance.
The  Palestinian  issue  is  an  open  wound  on  the 
conscience  of  humankind.  China  calls  on  Israel 
and  Palestine  to  agree  on  a  durable  ceasefire,  and  it 
urges  Israel  to  lift  its  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip  and 
stop  building  settlements.  At  the  same  time,  Israel’s 
legitimate  security  concerns  should  be  respected.  We 
hope  that  Israel  and  Palestine  will  choose  the  way  of 
peace and resume and advance the peace talks as soon 
as possible. The aspirations and legitimate demands of 
the Palestinian people for an independent nation must 
not remain unmet indefinitely. Advancing peace in the 
Middle East calls for the concerted efforts of many, not 
of  one  or  two  countries  alone.  The  Security  Council 
should play its rightful role, and we support its efforts 
to take action in response to the demands of Palestine 
and the League of Arab States.
Negotiations  on  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue  have 
entered a crucial stage. All the parties should display 
good faith, continue their efforts in a spirit of mutual 
respect,  equality,  collaboration  and  accommodation, 
and  work  hard  on  the  most  difficult  issues,  so  that  a 
win-win  agreement  that  is  comprehensive,  fair  and 
balanced is arrived at as soon as possible.
The  two  sides  of  the  conflict  in  South  Sudan 
should  establish  a  ceasefire  immediately,  organize  an 
active  political  dialogue  that  addresses  the  interests 
of the people in South Sudan in general and, through 
the  mediation  of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority 
on  Development,  work  with  all  the  country’s  ethnic 
groups and parties to speedily reach a fair and balanced 
solution and achieve national reconciliation and ethnic 
unity.  South  Sudan  is  the  youngest  Member  of  the 
United Nations. The South Sudanese people deserve a 
life of hope and vitality, not the devastation caused by 
conflicts and wars.
14-55126
39/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
China welcomes the election of Mr. Ashraf Ghani 
as the new President of Afghanistan and Mr. Abdullah 
Abdullah  as  its  Chief  Executive,  and  will  continue  to 
support  the  Afghan  people  in  their  work  to  achieve  a 
smooth political, security and economic transition and 
to  build  jointly  with  them  an  Afghanistan  that  enjoys 
unity,  stability,  development  and  amity.  We  support 
an  Afghan-led  and  -owned  peace  process,  with  the 
international community fulfilling its commitment and 
responsibility to Afghanistan and its people. China will 
host the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the Istanbul 
Process so that we can give Afghanistan fresh support 
as it stands on the threshold of a new era.
On the issue of the Korean peninsula, China calls 
on  all  the  parties  to  act  objectively  and  impartially, 
remain  committed  to  the  goal  of  denuclearizing  the 
peninsula,  firmly  uphold  its  peace  and  stability,  and 
endeavour  to  resolve  the  issues  through  dialogue  and 
consultation.  The  Six-Party  Talks  remain  the  only 
viable and effective way to resolve the nuclear issue on 
the  Korean  peninsula,  and  we  now  have  the  pressing 
task of restarting the talks as soon as possible. The issue 
should  be  tackled  through  a  sustainable,  irreversible 
and  effective  dialogue  process  that  addresses  all  the 
parties’  concerns  in  a  comprehensive  and  balanced 
way.  Since  there  are  still  many  uncertainties  on  the 
peninsula  today,  all  the  parties  concerned  should 
exercise restraint, refrain from provocative acts, work 
harder  to  help  ease  tensions  and  jointly  uphold  peace 
and stability.
While 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  established  by  the  United  Nations  in  2000 
have contributed greatly to improving human survival 
and development, global development is still a task for 
the long term. The international community is not only 
dealing  with  the  formidable  challenges  of  reducing 
poverty,  eradicating  hunger  and  improving  education 
and the health of women and children, it is also facing 
new challenges in the form of the environment, climate 
change and energy and resource security.
Next  year  is  the  deadline  for  meeting  the  MDGs, 
and  the  post-2015  development  agenda  will  take 
over  this  historic  mission.  Building  on  past  progress 
and  also  breaking  new  ground,  the  international 
community  should  formulate  more  effective  plans 
and  take  more  robust  action  to  advance  humankind’s 
shared  development.  As  we  see  it,  the  development 
agenda should have three goals. First, it should advance 
people’s  well-being,  with  a  focus  on  eradicating 
poverty  and  encouraging  development.  Secondly, 
it  should  promote  inclusiveness,  in  the  interests  of 
supporting social equity and justice. Thirdly, it should 
ensure  the  implementation  of  all  these  things.  Based 
on  the  principles  of  diversity  in  development  models 
and  shared  but  differentiated  responsibilities,  the 
agenda should aim to enhance global partnerships for 
development  and  improve  implementation  tools  and 
mechanisms.
Climate change is a challenge that all humankind 
is facing. Mr. Zhang Gaoli, Vice Premier of the State 
Council,  led  the  Chinese  delegation  to  this  year’s 
Climate  Summit  at  the  United  Nations  as  a  special 
envoy  of  China’s  President.  We  congratulate  the 
United Nations on the Summit’s success and hope that 
the  political  momentum  it  generated  will  translate 
into  effective  actions  for  improving  international 
cooperation  on  climate  change.  All  parties  should 
work  to  conclude  negotiations  on  a  new  post-2020 
climate-change  regime  as  scheduled,  by  the  end  of 
2015,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  shared  but 
differentiated  responsibilities,  equity  and  respective 
capabilities,  with  the  aim  of  creating  fairer  and  more 
equitable and effective arrangements for international 
cooperation on climate change.
The  Ebola  epidemic,  which  is  raging  in  some 
African  countries,  has  once  again  sounded  the  alarm 
on global health security. As a good brother and partner 
of Africa, with whom it shares the good and the bad, 
China  will  continue  to  stand  firmly  with  the  African 
people and to support and assist them to the best of its 
ability. We will also take an active part in the relevant 
international  assistance  efforts.  China  calls  on  the 
World  Health  Organization,  the  United  Nations  and 
other  international  agencies  to  work  closely  with  the 
international community, come up with new initiatives 
for  strengthening  global  health  security  and  provide 
more assistance to developing countries, particularly in 
Africa.
Next  year  is  one  of  special  historic  significance, 
as  it  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  victory  in 
the anti-fascist world war, the founding of the United 
Nations and victory in the Chinese people’s war against 
Japanese aggression. Remembering the past makes us 
cherish peace, and recalling history will help to guide 
us  as  we  embrace  the  future.  China  welcomes  the 
inclusion of the seventieth anniversary of the end of the 
Second World War on the agenda of this session of the 
General Assembly as an important opportunity.
40/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
When  we  look  back  on  what  happened  70  years 
ago,  the  historical  facts  are  clear,  and  a  final  verdict 
has been pronounced on what was right and what was 
wrong. History should not be falsified or truth distorted. 
Today,  70  years  later,  let  us  jointly  uphold  human 
justice  and  conscience  so  that  those  who  attempt  to 
deny aggression and distort history will have nowhere 
to hide. Let us jointly defend the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  outcomes  of  the  Second  World  War, 
so that that vision of a world free of war, with lasting 
peace, will take deep root in our hearts and pass from 
one generation to the next.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Pasquale  Valentini,  Minister  for  Foreign  and 
Political Affairs of the Republic of San Marino.
Mr.  Valentini  (San  Marino)  (spoke  in  Italian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
the Government of the Republic of San Marino, I would 
like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth  session,  and  to  wish  you  every  success  in  your 
work.  The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino 
assures  you,  Sir,  of  its  full  cooperation  throughout 
the session. I would also like to express my country’s 
gratitude  to  the  outgoing  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  his  work  during  the 
sixty-eighth session. My country also wishes to extend 
special thanks to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
the  energy  and  determination  with  which  he  leads 
the  United  Nations  and  for  his  sensitivity  towards  all 
Member States, without exception.
In  particular,  I  would  like  to  underscore  the 
importance of the climate change Summit organized by 
the Secretary-General in New York on 23 September. 
It  provided  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  with 
the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  political  will 
for  a  global  agreement  on  that  issue.  The  Republic 
of  San  Marino  contributed  to  the  work  through  the 
participation of its Head of State, thereby underscoring 
the importance and acknowledging the indissoluble link 
between climate change and sustainable development. 
The effects of climate change, which are often tragic, 
are  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  to  the  future  of 
humankind and a challenge that all States, in the context 
of a joint action coordinated by the United Nations, are 
called on to face with commitment and determination. 
We are accountable to future generations for our ability 
to achieve the goals of environmental protection, energy 
saving and energy generation from renewable sources.
Climate change is one of the causes of many natural 
disasters  that  have  befallen  our  planet,  including  this 
year. We need to respond effectively to the many very 
serious  humanitarian  emergencies,  which  show  the 
clear interdependence of the global threats now facing 
humankind.  Today,  a  strong,  rapid  and  coordinated 
response  at  the  international  level  is  necessary  to 
deal  with  the  very  serious  outbreak  of  Ebola  that  has 
developed in some West African States and has become 
a  global  threat.  The  most  affected  countries  must  not 
be  left  alone  or  isolated.  On  the  contrary,  they  must 
be  supported  and  helped.  San  Marino  was  among  the 
sponsors  of  resolution  2177  (2014),  recently  adopted 
by  the  Security  Council,  which  underscores  the  need 
for  an  immediate  mobilization  of  the  international 
community.
We  are  deeply  moved  by  the  problems  at  the 
international  level,  and,  in  the  light  of  the  theme 
of  this  session,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”,  we 
recognize  the  need  for  a  renewed  commitment  to 
freeing  the  world  from  extreme  poverty,  inequality 
and  hunger.  However,  we  are  aware  that  the  full 
achievement  of  such  goals  is  seriously  compromised 
when peace and security, on the basis of respect for the 
equal dignity of all human beings, are not ensured. This 
year, we have sadly witnessed too many incidents that 
represent a serious threat to peace, security and respect 
for human rights. It is therefore impossible not to share 
the widespread perception of a weakening of the United 
Nations  capacity  to  intervene  and  the  subsequent 
questioning of United Nations-led missions.
Let us consider the following events. Since March 
2011, the conflict in Syria has already caused more than 
200,000  deaths  and  injured  hundreds  of  thousands.  It 
has forced millions of people to flee their homes and 
their countries to escape a war that shows infinite forms 
of  cruelty  and  ferocity.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino 
has  strongly  condemned  and  continues  to  condemn 
the  violations  of  human  rights  and  of  international 
humanitarian law committed in Syria by all parties to 
the conflict, without exception. The recent resurgence 
of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  has  of  late  claimed 
the  lives  of  more  than  1,000  civilians,  among  whom 
were  many  women  and  children,  for  the  most  part 
Palestinian, including those who had sought refuge in 
United Nations schools. The San Marino Government 
and Parliament have appealed to both sides to let their 
guns  fall  silent  and  the  desire  for  dialogue  prevail, 
14-55126
41/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
aware that dialogue is the only way to achieve a peaceful 
coexistence of the two peoples.
resource, enabling us to adopt an approach that unites 
the interests of the entire international community.
The  situation  is  very  serious  in  Iraq,  where 
ongoing ethnic and religious cleansing is taking place 
with unprecedented violence. In the name of religion, 
systematic  and  massive  human  rights  violations, 
only  partially  documented  and  evidenced,  are  being 
perpetrated. Such violations constitute massive crimes 
against humanity. A coalition of States is undertaking a 
joint response. San Marino hopes that the interventions 
are  coordinated  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. In particular, it greeted with satisfaction and 
co-sponsored resolution 2178 (2014) on foreign terrorist 
fighters, unanimously adopted by the Security Council 
on  24  September,  under  the  leadership  of  the  United 
States President, Barack Obama.
The war that is being fought in some parts of North 
Africa is causing the migration of thousands of desperate 
people  leaving  for  Europe  every  day  in  the  hope  of 
arriving  safely  —  a  migration  that,  unfortunately, 
often turns into tragedy. The Mediterranean continues 
to  witness  the  deaths  of  migrants  from  many  areas 
of  Africa  and  Asia.  The  information  provided  by  the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  is 
evidence — as if evidence were necessary — not only 
of the utter tragedy of the situation but also of the need 
for a more united European action to address it.
In addition, this year has seen the crisis in Ukraine, 
which is a serious threat to the peace and security of 
the entire European continent, owing to both the large 
number of victims and also the fact that fundamental 
principles, such as the territorial sovereignty and self-
determination of peoples, are called into question.
to  restore 
its  responsibility  and 
These  events  demand  the  presence  of  the  United 
Nations and call for the entire international community 
to  assume 
the 
Organization’s capacity to intervene in order to protect 
the  citizens  of  the  entire  world  through  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes between States, as enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations and in numerous General 
Assembly  resolutions.  These  events  also  underscore 
the  need  for  a  reaffirmation  of  our  Organization’s 
profoundly democratic nature so that each State, large 
or  small,  can  make  its  voice  heard  and  contribute  to 
the work and resolutions of the United Nations. These 
events require that the cultural and religious diversity 
and  the  manifold  traditions  represented  within  our 
Organization  do  not  hamper  the  pursuit  of  possible 
solutions.  On  the  contrary,  they  should  be  a  valuable 
We  recognize  the  duty  and  the  responsibility  to 
work tirelessly for the definition and the implementation 
of the post-2015 development agenda. However, given 
the seriousness of the international situation, a simple 
appeal  will  not  suffice.  On  the  contrary,  precisely 
because, in many cases, a lack of integration between 
the economic and the social and environmental aspects 
has hampered the full achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  as  the  report  notes,  we  are 
convinced  that  we  need  new  momentum  and  a  new 
beginning in order to restore elements able to promote 
a  culture  of  life,  tolerance,  acceptance  and  solidarity 
within  our  communities  and  populations.  The  first 
element of that process, aimed at building a culture of 
inclusion, is the family. Recognition of the urgency to 
create such a culture demands of all States a common 
commitment  and  renewed  consideration  to  promote 
the  protection  and  support  of  the  family.  Indeed,  the 
family is clearly the place where our main relationships 
governing  human  coexistence  are  developed.  For  that 
reason,  weakening  and  marginalizing  the  family  has 
often  caused  great  existential  confusion  in  younger 
generations  with  many  serious  personal  and  social 
consequences.
In  this  spirit  and  with  the  utmost  determination, 
each State must assume its responsibility and leave no 
stone  unturned  in  resolving  the  numerous  conflicts, 
which Pope Francis has referred to as the third world 
war, since, if they were to prevail, they would nullify the 
plan for balanced development in the third millennium, 
as it should be defined in the United Nations agenda. 
San Marino is a small State that has in its century-old 
history  always  considered  freedom  and  peace  as  the 
supreme  goods  to  be  preserved  and  protected.  Based 
on that identity, it is honoured and proud to contribute 
to the community of the United Nations. With humility 
we  call  on  all  States  to  make  every  effort  to  give  the 
United  Nations  strength  and  authority  as  the  central 
referral body we so keenly need today.
The President: I now call on His Highness Sheikh 
Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan (United 
Arab Emirates) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, let me 
say that it is my pleasure to join previous speakers in 
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I am 
42/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
confident that your experience in international affairs 
will  contribute  to  the  success  of  the  current  session. 
We  stand  ready  to  offer  our  full  support  during  your 
presidency.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to commend your predecessor, Mr. John Ashe, for his 
wise  leadership  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth  session.  I  also  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and United Nations staff around 
the world for their continued efforts to promote global 
peace  and  security  and  to  achieve  development  and 
well-being for all people.
We  meet  today,  as  we  do  each  year,  to  renew 
our  commitment  to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  basis  on  which 
the  Organization  was  founded,  and  to  reiterate  our 
firm  belief  in  its  objectives,  including  creating  a 
peaceful  and  secure  world  and  achieving  prosperity 
and development for all peoples. We believe that those 
noble objectives can be achieved by doing two things. 
The first is playing an effective and responsible role in 
regional and international issues through constructive 
dialogue,  positive  engagement  and 
the  peaceful 
resolution  of  disputes.  The  second  is  by  creating  a 
suitable environment for international relations, based 
on the principles of good-neighbourliness, moderation, 
tolerance and non-violence.
The United Arab Emirates is gravely concerned about 
current  forms  of  extremism,  terrorism  and  sectarian 
divisions  in  our  region,  which  have  become  a  grave 
threat to international peace and security. In addition to 
being a violation of human rights, terrorism threatens 
the  integrity  and  values  of  States,  undermines  their 
social fabric, disrupts their security and development, 
and erodes their cultural and human heritage. The acts of 
terrorist organizations — indiscriminate killings, mass 
executions,  kidnappings  and  intimidation  of  innocent 
women and children — are heinous criminal acts and 
are strongly condemned by the United Arab Emirates. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  denounces  the  brutal 
methods used by such groups in the name of Islam, as 
Islam rejects such crimes, which are inconsistent with 
Islam’s  moderate  approach  and  principles  of  peaceful 
coexistence among all peoples.
the 
increased 
As  the  international  community  must  be  aware, 
besides 
terrorist  and 
extremist  acts  in  our  region,  most  notably  those 
perpetrated by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham 
(ISIS), the threats posed by those terrorist and extremist 
groups  are  expanding  beyond  our  region  to  threaten 
incidence  of 
the  rest  of  the  civilized  world.  Various  countries  in 
the  region,  including  Afghanistan,  Somalia,  Yemen, 
Iraq, Syria, Libya and the States of the African Sahel, 
are  suffering  at  the  hands  of  terrorist  takfiri  groups, 
which  have  exploited  unstable  conditions  in  those 
countries  to  create  an  environment  that  they  believe 
will guarantee them steady funding, logistical support, 
training and recruitment. Those extremist and terrorist 
organizations  promote  obscurantism,  exclusivity  and 
an  illicit  ideology,  and  they  perpetrate  brutal  acts  to 
impose  their  control  and  increase  their  influence  in 
order  to  achieve  their  goals.  The  current  collective 
action  against  the  threat  of  ISIS  and  other  terrorist 
groups  reflects  the  international  community’s  shared 
conviction of the need to confront the imminent danger. 
Civilized  communities  have  no  other  option  than  to 
stamp  out  that  threat.  It  is  a  test  in  which  we  must 
succeed.
With regard to Libya, the United Arab Emirates is 
concerned  about  the  deteriorating  security  conditions 
and their repercussions on the stability of neighbouring 
countries.  We  strongly  oppose  the  terrorist  acts  that 
have  undermined  the  work  of  legitimately  elected 
institutions in Libya. The United Arab Emirates’s policy 
towards  Libya  is  to  provide  full  and  unconditional 
support  for  the  legitimate  decisions  taken  by  the 
Libyan  people  through  their  nationally  elected  House 
of Representatives.
The  latest  developments  in  our  brother  country, 
Iraq,  are  increasingly  alarming.  ISIS  has  exploited 
the  sectarian  practices  of  the  former  Government  in 
Iraq  to  garner  the  support  of  affected  communities 
in  expanding  their  influence  over  large  parts  of  the 
country  with  extreme  brutality.  While  the  terrorist 
groups are threatening the sovereignty of Iraq and its 
social,  cultural  and  religious  fabric,  they  continue  to 
exploit  the  chaos  in  Syria  to  achieve  their  purposes 
without any regard for sovereignty or national borders.
In that context, the United Arab Emirates believes 
that  the  current  collective  action  will  address  the 
growing threat of extremist fighters in Syria as well as 
in  Iraq.  In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the  recent  decision 
of  the  Security  Council  to  confront  and  block  the 
extremist  groups.  The  threat  posed  by  extremist 
fighters  has  increased  in  the  midst  of  the  violence 
inflicted  by  the  Syrian  regime  on  the  Syrian  people. 
At this critical juncture, we must support the moderate 
Syrian  opposition  as  part  of  an  effective  strategy  to 
counter extremism and terrorism.
14-55126
43/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
From  this  platform,  we  express  our  deep  concern 
at the grave developments taking place in Yemen. The 
Houthis,  who  are  using  violence  to  try  to  undermine 
the political process and the constitutional legitimacy 
of  the  Yemeni  State,  compel  us  to  take  a  firm  and 
immediate stand against attempts to change the reality 
through violence and force. We have to realize that an 
exclusively  sectarian  and  individualistic  approach  is 
not  an  acceptable  option  to  the  Yemeni  people,  who 
aspire  to  build  an  inclusive  civil  State  that  is  capable 
of  committing  to  a  national  dialogue  and  continuing 
the  implementation  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
initiative and its mechanisms. The United Arab Emirates 
will continue to support the political transition process 
in Yemen and will assist the efforts of the Yemeni State 
to achieve stability and development.
In the light of the recent developments in the region, 
it  is  incumbent  on  us,  as  nations  that  have  pledged 
to  abide  by  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter, 
to  focus  our  efforts  on  combating  that  dangerous 
scourge.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore  calls 
on  the  international  community  and  Member  States 
to  cooperate  in  combating  terrorist  groups  and  to 
take  comprehensive  measures  to  fight  them  through 
a  clear,  unified  strategy.  Those  efforts  should  not 
be  limited  to  Iraq  and  Syria  alone,  but  must  also  be 
directed against the locations of those groups wherever 
they exist. We wish also to stress the futility of taking 
gradual measures to address those challenges. We must 
intensify  our  efforts  in  order  to  combat  the  terrorist 
groups promptly and effectively.
terrorism, 
While  our  attention  should  be  fully  focused  on 
countering 
the  United  Arab  Emirates 
believes that providing support to Governments facing 
serious  security  challenges  is  of  critical  importance. 
Active  participation  is  also  required  to  provide  the 
necessary  assistance  to  restore  peace  and  security  in 
those  countries  by  helping  them  to  strengthen  their 
legitimate institutions. In that context, we continue to 
highlight the importance of respecting the sovereignty 
and independence of States and supporting all political 
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  peaceful  settlements  of 
ongoing conflicts and disputes. Without those efforts, 
violence will continue. The United Arab Emirates hopes 
to see security and stability prevail in and throughout 
all countries.
I  once  again  reiterate  the  firm  position  of  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  in  rejection  of  terrorism  and 
extremism in all their forms. My country is fulfilling 
its  responsibilities  and  is  committed  to  participating 
constructively at the national, regional and international 
levels  to  combat  violent  extremism  and  affiliated 
beliefs  and  terrorist  acts.  The  United  Arab  Emirates, 
through its membership in the Global Counterterrorism 
Forum, cooperates with international organizations and 
with concerned countries to ensure that the territories 
of the latter are not exploited by those who facilitate or 
execute terrorist acts, as well as other related crimes, 
such as the financing of terrorism, human trafficking 
and the recruitment of people to commit those egregious 
crimes.  By  hosting  the  Hedayah  Centre  for  training, 
dialogue  and  research  to  combat  violent  extremism, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  continues  to  support  the 
international  community  in  building  capacities  and 
exchanging best practices on that issue.
My country also continues to develop its national 
policies  and  its  legislative  and  executive  systems  in 
order to deter and confront all terrorist acts, eradicate 
the roots of terrorism and protect our youth from being 
lured into a cycle of extremism and violence. To that end, 
the United Arab Emirates recently adopted a federal law 
on combating terrorist crimes. The law provides strict 
penalties for those found guilty of inciting terrorism or 
committing terrorist acts. The United Arab Emirates is 
also  strengthening  preventive  policies  by  establishing 
centres  for  the  rehabilitation  of  people  influenced  by 
extremist and terrorist ideologies.
The United Arab Emirates hopes for the recovery 
and  restoration  of  security  and  stability  in  the  region 
so  that  Governments  can  carry  out  their  duties  and 
obligations and their peoples can resume their normal 
lives in a constructive way. That hope is driven by the 
remarkable progress achieved by the new Government 
in Egypt and its good governance in implementing its 
political road map. Despite the challenges facing Egypt, 
the  signs  of  normalcy  in  public  life  and  the  revived 
economy  and  culture  are  promising.  Therefore,  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  regrets  the  statements  of  some 
representatives  and  their  unacceptable  questioning  of 
the legitimacy of the Egyptian Government.
The  present  Egyptian  Government  was  freely 
elected by the Egyptian people, who believe in its ability 
to  fulfil  their  aspirations.  Questioning  the  Egyptian 
people’s will and right to choose their representatives 
is an interference in the internal affairs of Egypt and 
undermines its stability. Accordingly, I emphasize that 
the  stability  of  our  region  depends  on  the  stability  of 
Egypt.
44/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  provide  the  necessary 
support to the Egyptian Government and its economy 
in order to boost Egypt’s efforts to achieve progress and 
prosperity. I would also like to commend the generous 
initiative of the King of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the 
Two Holy Mosques, in convening the economic summit 
to  support  the  Egyptian  economy.  His  is  a  visionary 
approach to promoting Egypt’s future and maintaining 
moderation in the region.
expresses 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
its 
disappointment over the failure of the peace negotiations 
between  Palestine  and  Israel.  We  strongly  condemn 
Israel’s  aggression  against  Gaza,  especially 
the 
destruction directed against the civilian population and 
infrastructure, including some United Nations facilities. 
We  demand  a  thorough,  transparent  and  independent 
investigation  to  determine  legal  responsibility  for  the 
damage. We hope that the continued failure of the peace 
negotiations  will  not  lead  to  a  resurgence  of  violence 
and the return to the region of a new and more brutal 
form of terrorism.
The  establishment  of  peace  and  security  in  the 
region  is  a  key  element  in  achieving  global  stability 
and  a  priority  of  our  foreign  policy,  which  derives 
its  principles  from  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  provisions  of  international  law.  On  the  basis 
of  those  principles,  my  Government  again  rejects  the 
continuing  Iranian  occupation  of  three  islands  that 
belong to the United Arab Emirates — Greater Tunb, 
Lesser  Tunb  and  Abu  Musa.  We  demand  restoration 
of  the  full  sovereignty  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
over  the  islands  and  emphasize  that  all  actions  and 
measures taken by the Iranian authorities are contrary 
to international law and custom and to all our common 
human values. In that respect, we note that the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  has  recently  hoisted  the  Iranian 
flag  on  the  part  of  Abu  Musa  island  allocated  to  the 
United Arab Emirates under the 1971 memorandum of 
understanding,  in  violation  of  the  memorandum.  My 
country  strongly  condemns  that  action  as  a  flagrant 
violation  of  the  memorandum  of  understanding  and 
regards it as devoid of any legal effect.
We  therefore  renew  our  call  to  the  international 
community to prevail on Iran to respond to the repeated 
peaceful, sincere calls of the United Arab Emirates for 
a  just  settlement  of  the  issue,  either  through  direct, 
formal  negotiations  between  the  two  countries,  or  by 
referral to the International Court of Justice to finally 
settle the dispute in accordance with the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
provisions of international law.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  welcomes  the  ongoing 
negotiations between the five permanent members of the 
Security Council and the Islamic Republic of Iran aimed 
at reaching a comprehensive settlement concerning the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme.  We  affirm  that,  in  order 
to  avert  an  arms  race  in  the  region,  a  final  and  strict 
agreement must be achieved; the region cannot afford 
further tension and instability. Nevertheless, the United 
Arab Emirates believes that the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy  is  a  necessity  in  meeting  the  world’s  growing 
energy demands. My country is proud to be a pioneer in 
this field and to successfully harness the peaceful use 
of  nuclear  technology  in  compliance  with  the  highest 
standards of transparency, safety and security.
Despite  the  challenges  facing  the  region,  my 
country  has  always  sought  to  remain  a  model  of 
moderation, tolerance and peaceful coexistence in the 
region, consistent with current international efforts. We 
strongly believe that investment in human development 
is important in the long term, and we therefore attach 
great  importance  to  the  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  and  the  sustainable  development 
goals.  We  welcome  the  results  of  those  consultations, 
which  have  placed  the  eradication  of  poverty  at  the 
heart of the development agenda.
My  country  also  supports  the  inclusion  of  goals 
that would provide sustainable energy for all, develop 
green  economies,  promote  food  security,  supply 
safe  drinking  water  and  ensure  gender  equality  and 
women’s empowerment. The United Arab Emirates is 
committed  to  pursuing  economic  and  social  policies 
aimed  primarily  at  achieving  the  development  of  the 
individual, providing all means necessary for a person 
to  lead  a  decent  and  productive  life,  and  promoting 
prosperity. In that context, I note that Dubai has been 
chosen  as  the  venue  of  the  2020  World  Expo.  It  is  a 
great honour for us to act as host to this event, and we 
thank  all  the  countries  that  supported  our  candidacy. 
We  look  forward  to  working  with  Member  States  to 
organize an exhibition that meets the aspirations of all.
sustainable  development 
cannot  be  achieved  unless  all  segments  of  society 
participate 
the  national  development  process. 
Accordingly,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  pays  special 
attention  to  women’s  empowerment.  My  country  now 
occupies a prominent place among the countries of the 
Comprehensive  and 
in 
14-55126
45/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
world  in  terms  of  women’s  achievements  and  success 
in all areas of life. Our efforts are not limited solely to 
empowering women in the United Arab Emirates, but 
also include supporting women throughout the region 
and around the world.
Abu Dhabi will host a UN-Women Liaison Office 
with  the  support  and  leadership  of  Her  Highness 
Sheikha  Fatima  bint  Mubarak.  We  are  also  assisting 
UN-Women  in  the  preparations  for  the  high-level 
review  on  women,  peace,  and  security.  Those  efforts 
reflect the interest and participation of the United Arab 
Emirates  in  international  efforts  to  empower  women 
as effective partners and agents in preventing war and 
resolving conflict, keeping in mind that women play a 
key  role  in  countering  violence  and  promoting  peace 
and security throughout the world.
We  must  continue  to  devote  special  attention 
to  the  issue  of  climate  change.  Recent  international 
reports indicate that the effects of climate change have 
become  a  major  challenge  to  development.  But  there 
is  still  some  time  left  to  mitigate  the  impact  through 
international cooperation. In that context, we welcome 
the  outcome  of  the  recent  Climate  Summit  held  a 
few  days  ago  at  the  United  Nations.  We  are  grateful 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  efforts  to 
advance  that  important  issue  prior  to  the  start  of  the 
general debate of the General Assembly, and we thank 
all  the  participating  parties.  We  also  urge  all  parties 
to abide by the agreements reached and stress that the 
developed countries must take the lead in that respect.
The efforts of the United Arab Emirates in the field 
of  renewable  energy  are  seen  in  various  parts  of  the 
world.  We  host  the  International  Renewable  Energy 
Agency  in  Abu  Dhabi  and  make  available  more  than 
$500 million in the form of grants and low-interest loans 
for renewable energy projects in developing countries. 
We  also  have  extensive  and  varied  international 
commercial  investments  totalling  billions  of  dollars 
in 
initiatives, 
investments  and  grants  all  contribute  to  addressing 
climate change and its impact throughout the world.
the  renewable-energy  sector.  Such 
In conclusion, I would like to underscore that the 
United  Arab  Emirates  will  continue  to  make  every 
effort to achieve our aspiration to contribute to a secure 
and stable world, in which people can live in dignity, 
peace and happiness.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  live  in  a  globalized  world  that  is  moving  towards 
multipolarity  in  an  age  characterized  by  the  threat  to 
the  survival  of  the  human  species.  The  United  States 
Government and NATO will not be able to reverse that 
trend  with  a  new  world  division  through  the  force  of 
arms. However, there is a serious risk that in trying to 
do so, they render the world ungovernable.
The  huge  nuclear  and  conventional  arsenals 
that  have  been  built  up,  the  imposed  annual  military 
expenditure  that  amounts  to  $1.75  trillion  and  the 
increase in military budgets to 2 per cent of the gross 
domestic  product  required  of  all  States  members  of 
NATO will not help to address or to resolve issues such 
as poverty, hunger, epidemics or waves of migration or 
to overcome the global economic, environmental. food, 
energy and water crises.
As  has  already  been  demonstrated,  wherever  the 
so-called unconventional warfare described in the 2010 
United  States  Special  Forces  Army  Training  Circular 
18-01  and  the  innovations  of  the  2010  United  States 
Quadrennial  Defense  Review  are  practised,  chaos 
ensues  through  the  destabilization  or  destruction 
of  States,  the  proliferation  of  violent  and  extremist 
groups  and  the  tearing  apart  of  nations,  cultures  and 
religions,  thereby  seriously  jeopardizing  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  necessary  to 
condemn the militarization of cyberspace and the illegal 
and  covert  interference  in  the  information  systems 
of  some  countries  in  order  to  use  them  in  aggressive 
actions  against  third  countries  to  stir  up  conflict,  as 
well  as  global  espionage  on  Governments  and  entire 
societies.
The  extraterritorial  application  of  United  States 
laws  to  the  detriment  of  other  sovereign  nations  is 
becoming  increasingly  aggressive  and  encourages 
the  use  of  unilateral  sanctions,  in  particular  financial 
sanctions,  as  a  tool  of  foreign  policy.  The  use  of  its 
courts  of  justice  to  impose  multimillion-dollar  fines, 
including  on  its  allies,  under  decisions  that  violate 
international law, has become a means of punishment 
and  threat  and  a  way  to  spuriously  obtain  financial 
resources. Governments, by failing to defend their own 
sovereignty and to apply their own laws so as to protect 
the standards of the international financial system and 
46/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
the legitimate interests of their nations and those of their 
companies  and  citizens,  are  creating  the  conditions 
necessary for the proliferation of such practices, which 
jeopardize the independence of all States and the rule 
of international law.
linked 
to 
increasingly 
Media  empires, 
the 
hegemonic goals of the Western Powers, continue their 
misinformation campaigns, shamelessly and cynically 
manipulate  facts  and  create  public  opinion  matrices 
that promote aggression. We need another international 
order, where there is no room for the philosophy of war 
and the plundering of natural resources.
The  foreign  intervention  in  Syria  must  stop.  It  is 
inconceivable that Western Powers encourage, finance 
and  arm  terrorist  groups  to  set  them  against  a  State, 
while trying to combat their crimes in another State, as 
is now happening in Iraq. The United States Government 
violates international law when it launches, in contempt 
of  the  United  Nations,  unilateral  bombings  without 
respect for sovereign borders or States under the guise 
of dubious coalitions.
The attempt to deploy NATO up to Russia’s borders 
will have serious consequences for international peace 
and  security  and  for  the  stability  of  Europe.  The 
sanctions against Russia are immoral and unjust. The 
strategic  American  deployment  in  the  Asia-Pacific 
region  will  create  dangers  for  the  sovereignty  of  all 
nations in the area.
Israel’s  crimes  against  the  Palestinian  people, 
most  recently  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  should  not  remain 
unpunished  under  the  protection  of  a  veto  in  the 
Security  Council.  Palestine  should  already  be  a  State 
Member of the United Nations, established within the 
1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
The  General  Assembly  must  exercise 
the 
prerogatives  conferred  on  it  by  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations in the current dangerous and unstable 
international  situation,  which  is  full  of  threats  and 
challenges.  The  Security  Council  should  be  rebuilt 
on  the  basis  of  democracy,  transparency  and  the  fair 
representation of the countries of the South, which are 
discriminated against, as permanent and non-permanent 
members.  It  should  be  built  on  credibility  and  strict 
observance  of  the  Charter,  without  double  standards, 
obscure  procedures  or  the  anachronistic  veto.  The 
Organization  needs  profound  reform  and  the  defence 
of its principles. The Secretary-General should be the 
defender and guarantor of international peace.
that 
The 1.2 billion people who live in extreme poverty, 
the  842  million  people  who  suffer  chronic  hunger, 
the  774  million  illiterate  adults  and  the  57  million 
uneducated  children  affirm 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  —  which  are  questionable  from 
a  methodological  point  of  view  —  were  a  mirage. 
There  has  been  and  still  is  a  lack  of  political  will  in 
the  Governments  of 
industrialized  States,  where 
blindness and ineffective selfishness prevail. Insatiable 
transnational  businesses  increasingly  focus  on  the 
ownership of huge resources. The unequal distribution 
of wealth is increasingly ruthless.
It  is  necessary,  inevitably,  to  establish  a  new 
international  economic  order.  In  these  circumstances, 
the  discussions  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
give  us  little  reason  to  hope.  However,  we  must  try 
to reach agreement, as that is the most urgent task. It 
must  be  the  result  of  an  inclusive  intergovernmental 
negotiation. The resulting document should not be the 
interpretation  of  a  few  parties  to  the  consensus,  but 
rather of the consensus itself.
It is urgent to make sub-Saharan Africa a priority. 
It  is  essential  to  confront  jointly  and  decisively,  with 
sufficient and genuine cooperation, the Ebola epidemic 
that is affecting some countries of the continent. Cuba 
has decided to maintain its medical cooperation in the 
32 African countries where more than 4,000 specialists 
are  working  and  is  willing  to  extend  its  cooperation, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO), to other, most affected countries, as has been 
reported.  Our  doctors  and  paramedics  will  do  so 
completely voluntarily.
We call on the international community, particularly 
industrialized  countries  with  substantial  means,  to 
forcefully  respond  to  the  call  of  the  United  Nations 
and  WHO  to  supply  financial,  health  and  scientific 
resources right away in order to eradicate the scourge 
and prevent it from claiming more lives. The necessary 
resources  should  also  be  contributed  to  support  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063, which sets forth the road 
map for the development of the region.
In  the  past  five  decades,  325,000  Cuban  health 
workers have assisted 158 nations of the South, including 
39 African countries, where 76,000 have worked. Also, 
38,000  physicians  were  trained  free  of  charge  in  121 
countries; of those, 3,392 were in 45 African nations. 
If Cuba, small and subject to a blockade, has been able 
to  do  that,  how  much  more  could  have  been  done  for 
14-55126
47/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
Africa  with  the  cooperation  of  all,  especially  of  the 
richest States?
At  the  second  Summit  of  the  Community  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  (CELAC),  in 
Havana,  we  agreed  on  what  is  needed  to  achieve  the 
goal  of  making  societies  more  just  and  inclusive.  It 
is  indispensable  that  there  be  a  better  distribution  of 
wealth and income, the eradication of illiteracy, quality 
education  for  all,  real  food  security,  health  systems 
with  universal  coverage,  and  the  fulfilment  of  other 
human rights.
The  solemn  Proclamation  of  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean as a zone of peace, signed by the Heads 
of  State  and  Government,  enshrines  respect  for  the 
principles and norms of international law, the promotion 
of a culture of peace, nuclear disarmament and general 
and complete disarmament, and the inalienable right of 
every State to choose its political, economic and social 
system.  We  also  undertook  to  make  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean a region free from colonialism and 
expressed support for the inalienable right of the people 
of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence.
The  Havana  summit  recognized  that  the  current 
economic,  financial  and  environmental  crises  have 
delivered  particularly  harsh  blows  to  small  island 
developing  States, 
the 
Caribbean.  Their  efforts  to  improve  the  welfare  of 
their  populations  should  not  be  punished  by  calling 
them  middle-income  countries 
through  schematic 
calculations of per capita income, without taking into 
account their specificities and vulnerabilities.
the  nations  of 
including 
In  CELAC,  the  region  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  has  found  a  native  and  legitimate  space 
to  forge  from  its  rich  diversity  the  essential  unity  to 
fulfil  the  dreams  of  our  heroes,  achieve  the  complete 
independence of “Our America”   and make a substantial 
contribution  to  creating  balance  in  the  world.  In  that 
effort, there have been significant developments — the 
meeting between the Union of South American Nations 
and  Brazil,  the  Russian  Federation,  India,  China  and 
South  Africa  (BRICS);  the  meeting  between  the 
leaders  of  China  and  the  countries  of  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean; and the establishment of the China-
CELAC Forum in Brasilia in July, as had been agreed 
in  Havana.  We  welcome  the  Fortaleza  Declaration, 
also adopted in July in Brazil, at the sixth summit of 
the BRICS countries — whose economies account for 
25 per cent of world gross domestic product and almost 
40 per cent of the population of the planet — as well 
as the setting up of a development bank and a foreign 
exchange reserves common fund, which are important 
for the countries of the South and for the construction 
of a new international financial architecture.
We  express  our  solidarity  with  the  Bolivarian 
and  Chavista  revolution,  which,  under  the  leadership 
of  President  Nicolas  Maduro,  is  battling  to  fend  off 
destabilizing  actions  and  foreign  interference.  We 
support  the  worthy  fight  being  waged  by  Argentina 
against  speculative  capital  funds,  and  we  oppose  the 
interventionist  decisions  of  the  United  States  courts 
that  are  violating  international  law.  In  addition,  we 
reiterate  our  strong  support  for  the  legitimate  rights 
of Argentina with respect to the Malvinas Islands. We 
also reiterate our unwavering support for the fight that 
Ecuador  is  leading  against  the  ecological  pillaging 
and  damage  caused  by  the  activities  of  transnational 
companies.
On the eve of the International Decade for People 
of  African  Descent  (2015-2024),  we  would  recall  that 
this  year  we  celebrate  the  210th  anniversary  of  the 
independence  of  Haiti,  whose  anti-slavery  and  pro-
independence revolution was the precursor of liberation 
movements in Latin America and the Caribbean. Haiti 
deserves  special  contributions  for  its  reconstruction 
and development, under the sovereign leadership of its 
Government, in which we encourage the international 
community to participate. We support the claim of the 
Caribbean  to  receive  reparations  from  the  colonial 
Powers for the horrors of slavery.
The  State  Department  has  again  put  Cuba  on 
its  unilateral  and  arbitrary  list  of  State  sponsors  of 
international terrorism. Its real purpose is to increase 
scrutiny  of  our  international  financial  transactions 
worldwide  and  justify  the  policy  of  blockade.  During 
the current Administration, there has been a tightening 
of the extraterritorial dimension of the blockade, with 
a  strong  and  unprecedented  emphasis  in  the  financial 
realm, through the imposition of huge fines on banking 
institutions in third-party countries. An example of this 
is the scandalous and unjust mega-fine imposed on the 
French  bank  BNP  Paribas.  Furthermore,  the  current 
Administration  has  not  stepped  back  from  promoting 
destabilization in Cuba. It allocates millions of dollars 
to  that  end  in  its  budget  every  year  and  increasingly 
relies  on  undercover  methods,  such  as  the  use  of 
information  and  communications 
technology.  The 
ZunZuneo  project,  sponsored  by  the  United  States 
Agency for International Development (USAID), which 
48/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
not only violates Cuban law but also the law of its own 
country, is the latest evidence of that.
I cannot speak from many years of experience, what I 
can offer is the perspective of a young generation.
Recent  disclosures  about  the  use  of  young  people 
from  our  continent  in  subversive  actions  in  Cuba, 
a  project  funded  and  executed  by  USAID,  confirm 
that  the  Cuban  Government  is  right  in  its  countless 
denunciations  of  the  ongoing  illegal  plans  of  the 
United  States  to  subvert  Cuba’s  internal  order,  in 
violation  of  Cuban  sovereignty,  the  sovereignty  of 
third  countries  and  international  law.  We  cannot  fail 
to remember that this month marks the sixteenth year 
of  the  unjust  imprisonment  of  three  Cubans  from  the 
Cuban  Five  —  Gerardo,  Ramón  and  Antonio  —  who 
with the utmost altruism confronted the terrorist plans 
organized  within  United  States  territory  against  our 
country.  I  therefore  reiterate,  on  behalf  of  the  people 
and Government of Cuba, that we will not cease in our 
efforts to call for their return to their homeland.
Cuba, for its part, remains calm and prepared for 
mutually  respectful  and  responsible  dialogue,  based 
on  reciprocity,  with  the  United  States  Government. 
At  the  same  time,  Cuba  continues  to  make  progress 
in  the  updating  of  its  socioeconomic  model,  despite 
adverse international circumstances marked by a global 
economic crisis and the tightening of the blockade.
Ms. Gunnarsdóttir (Iceland), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Updating  Cuban’s  economic  socialist  model  is 
aimed at ensuring well-being, equity and social justice 
for  all  Cubans.  The  changes  that  we  are  introducing 
are also geared to preserving the achievements of the 
Revolution, which so many generations have fought for. 
The goal is to build an ever more just, prosperous and 
sustainable Cuban socialism.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian  Kurz,  Federal  Minister  for 
Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Austria.
Mr.  Kurz  (Austria):  It  is  with  great  respect  that 
I  stand  at  this  rostrum  for  the  first  time  as  Austrian 
Foreign  Minister.  Many  eminent  world  leaders  have 
stood  here  before  me  and  laid  out  their  visions  on 
international  challenges  and  crises.  As  many  may  be 
able to tell, probably even from the last row, I look a bit 
younger than most of the speakers before me. Indeed, 
I believe I am the only person under the age of 30 who 
has the privilege of speaking here this week. So while 
My  generation  is  the  post-Cold  War  generation. 
The Iron Curtain collapsed 25 years ago, when I was 3  
years old. For us in Europe, the years after the collapse 
of the Iron Curtain were years filled with hope and new 
opportunities. We could travel freely, study in foreign 
countries  and  meet  people  from  all  over  the  world. 
We  grew  up  in  a  society  where  human  rights  were 
respected, where the rule of law was a given, and where 
religious  freedom  was  practised.  We  communicate 
without borders on Facebook and Twitter, we have our 
entire lives stored on our smartphone, and we consume 
the news online.
While  the  world  after  the  Cold  War  offered 
fascinating new opportunities, it also proved to be not 
orderly at all, but quite messy and more uncertain than 
many had predicted. Just two years after the Berlin Wall 
came  down,  war  returned  to  Europe  in  the  Western 
Balkan  countries.  Thankfully,  the  horrors  came  to  an 
end,  and  these  countries  now  have  a  clear  European 
perspective.  After  the  fall  of  the  Iron  Curtain,  we 
believed  that  the  world  would  move  forward  and  that 
more  and  more  people  would  benefit  from  the  same 
opportunities  that  my  generation  in  Western  Europe 
enjoyed.  But  the  world  today  seems  to  be  shifting 
into  reverse.  We  are  facing  situations  and  horrors  we 
thought we had overcome many years ago. For young 
people  like  myself,  who  learned  about  the  Cold  War 
only through history books, it seems unbelievable that 
the  thinking  in  terms  of  confrontational  blocs  could 
return to Europe.
The crisis in Ukraine is probably the most serious 
challenge to peace and security Europe has had to face 
in  decades.  In  retrospect,  it  is  easy  to  claim  that  this 
development should have been predictable, and that we 
should have foreseen it. But let us be honest. Who would 
have  predicted  that,  after  three  years  of  negotiations, 
President  Yanukovych  would  refuse 
the 
Association Agreement with the European Union? Who 
would have predicted that the Maidan movement would 
be  strong  enough  to  force  him  to  leave  the  country? 
And who would have predicted that Russia would react 
by  annexing  Crimea  and  would  even  actively  support 
separatist movements?
to  sign 
We  cannot  accept  that  international  law  should 
be violated and that recognized borders challenged in 
Europe once again. At the same time, we need to find 
14-55126
49/51
A/69/PV.15 
27/09/2014
a political solution that goes beyond a mere ceasefire. 
We  need  a  solution  that  offers  the  prospect  of  a  free, 
stable  and  united  Ukraine,  a  Ukraine  which  enjoys 
strong  economic  ties  with  both  the  European  Union 
and the Russian Federation. Let us not return to Cold 
War  thinking,  where  two  blocs  face  each  other.  Our 
political  guideline  must  be  to  move  from  a  policy  of 
“either  Europe  or  Russia”  to  a  logic  of  “both  Europe 
and Russia”.
Some  people  have  claimed  that  Ukraine  would 
not be in this situation had it not given up its nuclear 
weapons. This kind of thinking is dangerous. And we 
have  to  ask  ourselves,  where  would  this  lead  us?  As 
long as nuclear weapons exist, the risk of their use, on 
purpose or by accident, remains real. Let us be clear: 
the use of nuclear weapons, more than any other human 
action, has the potential to end life on this planet. And, 
69  years  after  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki,  let  us  not 
forget that the humanitarian consequences of a single 
nuclear  explosion  are  terrifying  and  long-lasting.  The 
desire  to  prevent  the  humanitarian  consequences  of 
nuclear weapons should unite us all. We therefore hope 
that  the  Conference  on  the  Humanitarian  Impact  of 
Nuclear Weapons in Vienna in December will mark a 
real change of direction in international discussions on 
nuclear weapons.
Looking  beyond  our  region,  we  are  currently 
witnessing a further rise of extremism in the name of 
religion,  and  a  new  development  —  foreign  terrorist 
fighters who come from Western countries and travel 
to  the  Middle  East  in  order  to  join  the  fight.  There 
is  no  time  to  lose;  we  must  actively  address  what  is 
happening in northern Iraq, where the so-called Islamic 
State of Iraq and the Levant is attempting to wipe out 
entire religious communities, where children are being 
beheaded, mothers raped and fathers hanged because of 
their beliefs.
In Europe, we estimate that there are thousands of 
foreign fighters with European passports. In our case, 
there are more than 140 people from Austria fighting 
in the name of a so-called holy war. We all know that 
the  terrorist  organizations  operate  worldwide.  They 
get their terrorist fighters by recruiting globally. They 
finance  themselves  through  global  networks.  They 
buy  arms  and  other  resources  on  a  global  scale.  And 
they  use,  or  rather  abuse,  the  global  communication 
networks to their benefit.
How is it possible that terrorist organizations have 
access to financial and economic resources that allow 
them to operate so effectively? How is it possible that 
we  allow  terrorist  organizations  to  abuse  the  right  to 
freedom  of  expression  by  showing  their  barbaric  acts 
on social media? And how is it possible that they are 
able to recruit new fighters within our societies?
We all, Governments and the private sector as well, 
have a duty to develop preventive measures within our 
societies to stop the flow of foreign terrorist fighters, 
to cut off financial support to their organizations and 
to  put  an  end  to  the  abuse  of  social  media  networks 
by  developing  forms  of  voluntary  self-restriction  for 
those  networks.  The  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2178 (2014) this week was an important first 
step,  but  now  we  must  implement  it.  And  we  should 
always  remind  ourselves  that  the  battle  lines  in  this 
confrontation are not limited to Iraq or Syria. They run 
through our own Western societies.
My  generation  in  Austria  was  privileged  to  grow 
up in freedom from fear and from want. There are, of 
course, other stories to be told of young people growing 
up in Afghanistan or the Central African Republic, for 
example. Today half of the world’s population is under 
25 years of age, and many of them lack adequate nutrition, 
health care, education and jobs. All in all, those are not 
great prospects for life. The work of the United Nations 
on development is therefore crucial to lifting millions 
of  people  out  of  poverty,  helping  the  hungry  and  the 
sick and educating new generations around the world. 
The  United  Nations  needs  and  deserves  our  support, 
and I can assure the Assembly that Austria fully stands 
behind the post-2015 development agenda.
But  we  must  also  ensure  that  respect  for  human 
rights and the rule of law receive proper attention. Only 
a society that respects the rights of its citizens can  enable 
each individual to develop his or her potential. We are 
therefore  very  pleased  to  be  organizing  the  Second 
United Nations Conference on Landlocked Developing 
Countries, to be held in Vienna in November. And we 
are honoured that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has 
agreed to attend the Conference.
I  am  aware  that  the  list  of  challenges  that  the 
international  community  and  the  United  Nations  are 
facing  is  long:  the  situations  in  Iraq,  Ukraine,  Syria, 
Gaza, the Central African Republic and Mali and the 
outbreak  of  the  Ebola  disease,  to  name  just  a  few.  In 
view of those challenges, the United Nations needs and 
deserves  our  full  support.  I  want  to  especially  thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts 
at  the  helm  of  the  United  Nations.  I  can  assure  him 
50/51 
14-55126
27/09/2014 
A/69/PV.15
that  Austria  remains  committed  to  working  actively 
within the United Nations and its bodies to support his 
work and to address our global challenges, whether as 
peacekeepers, through our presidency of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  or  as  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. We are particularly proud to host the 
United  Nations  Office  at  Vienna,  which  has  become 
an Austrian landmark. Austria has a long tradition of 
building bridges and serving as a place for international 
dialogue. We will continue to do so in the future and to 
offer our contribution to making the world a little bit 
safer and better for the generations to come.
The meeting rose at 3 p.m.
14-55126
51/51
