United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
21st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 
Agenda item 108 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization (A/69/1)
annual 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
report 
Secretary-General  presented  his 
(A/69/1)  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  6th  plenary 
meeting,  on  24  September.  The  report  covers  many 
issues of interest to Member States, such as the post-
2015  development  agenda,  climate  change,  peace  and 
security, the development of Africa, disarmament, and 
emerging  threats  such  as  drugs,  organized  crime  and 
terrorism.  Many  of  those  issues  were  emphasized  by 
leaders during the general debate, and they will remain 
important throughout the sixty-ninth session.
With  regard  to  sustainable  development  issues, 
substantive progress has been made towards preparing 
the ground for the Secretary-General’s synthesis report 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  However,  the 
imperative  to  accelerate  progress  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  particularly 
in  areas  where 
the  international  community  is  noticeably  lagging 
behind — such as nutrition, maternal health, education 
and  inequality  —  is  highlighted  in  the  report.  At  the 
same time, we must maintain our focus on addressing 
climate  change,  with  a  view  to  adopting  a  universal 
climate agreement by 2015.
In the area of peace and security, the report strikes 
a  sobering  tone  on  the  regrettable  developments 
that  have  taken  place  in  the  past  year  in  many  parts 
of the world. Most notably, the situations point to the 
daunting  challenges  which  the  global  community  is 
collectively  facing  in  efforts  to  address  those  issues 
moving forward. In highlighting the inextricable nexus 
between development and peace and security, the report 
points out that failure to address these challenges will 
inevitably  stunt  development  aspirations,  even  as  the 
world looks to elaborate a new agenda. As a community 
of  nations,  we  must  wholeheartedly  embrace  efforts 
towards  conflict  prevention,  mediation,  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
in  coordination  and  collaboration  with  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  remains  critical,  including 
with regard to curbing the activities of non-State actors.
As  the  Ebola  outbreak  continues  to  inflict  grave 
consequences  on  parts  of  West  Africa,  with  potential 
regional  and  international  dimensions,  the  epidemic 
serves  as  a  reminder  of  the  importance  of  continued 
commitment to countries with special needs, including 
those  in  Africa,  landlocked  developing  countries, 
least developed countries and small island developing 
States.  While  considerable  progress  is  being  made 
by  countries  in  special  circumstances,  the  report 
highlights the huge deficits that still exist with regard 
to  health  and  educations  systems,  as  well  as  energy 
and  infrastructure.  Finally,  the  report  notes  that  we 
must  also  develop  measures  to  support  countries 
most  affected  by  emerging  threats  to  international 
peace,  particularly  organized  crime,  drug  and  human 
trafficking and international terrorism.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 
all, I would like to extend our sincere congratulations 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55823 (E)
*1455823*
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
to  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session,  and  to  offer  you  our  full  support  during  our 
work in the coming year. 
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Organization  (A/69/1),  which  highlights  very 
significant and rapid changes ranging from inequalities 
among  populations  to  the  disastrous  consequences  of 
climate  change,  armed  conflict  and  terrorism.  The 
major  challenges  facing  the  world  today  require  our 
Organization to adapt quickly in order to respond in a 
timely manner, while strengthening its mediating role 
on a sound and solid basis in the context of rules and 
parameters to improve its effectiveness. 
As we all know, peacekeeping remains the flagship 
activity of the United Nations, as evidenced by the tens 
of  thousands  of  peacekeepers  deployed  worldwide. 
The  commitment  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  to 
peacekeeping operations dates back to 1960 and today 
is reflected in the 2,000 soldiers deployed on the Africa 
continent,  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo and the Central African Republic, where 
the Kingdom of Morocco’s contribution has just been 
reinforced by the deployment of a Moroccan contingent 
in  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic. 
That  ongoing  commitment 
the  ongoing 
willingness  of  my  country  to  strengthen  the  concept 
of collective security, which is the core mandate of the 
Organization. 
reflects 
Over the past year, the Organization has certainly 
responded  effectively  to  a  number  of  challenges  in 
various  areas,  such  as  poverty  reduction,  primary 
school  enrolment,  access 
to  drinking  water  and 
reducing maternal and child mortality. It has played a 
remarkable role in natural disasters and in humanitarian 
relief.  However,  we  must  note  that  the  attainment  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  has  been  uneven 
and  that,  with  the  target  date  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  approaching,  priority  should  be 
given to the post-2015 development agenda. 
Development  must  remain  at  the  heart  of  our 
concerns,  along  with  urgent  measures  to  strengthen 
socioeconomic stability so as to better respond to the 
global challenges we are all dealing with today. Africa 
remains  the  most  vulnerable  and  affected  region  in 
terms of natural disasters, poverty, famine, disease - in 
particular HIV/AIDS and the recent Ebola epidemic with 
its devastating effects - armed conflicts and terrorism 
of all stripes. The United Nations will therefore have to 
continue  to  pay  particular attention to the difficulties 
faced  by  developing  countries,  especially  in  Africa, 
which  require  more  engaged  action  on  the  part  of  all 
partners  with  a  view  to  making  a  greater  and  more 
effective contribution to the advent of a world of lasting 
peace and shared prosperity. 
As was highlighted in a message that His Majesty 
the King delivered to the General Assembly at its most 
recent general debate:
“The world stands at a crossroads today. Either 
the  international  community  supports  developing 
countries  in  their  quest  to  achieve  progress  and 
ensure  security  and  stability,  or  we  shall  all  face 
the  consequences  of  more  conflicts  and  greater 
fanaticism,  violence  and  terrorism  -  all  of  which 
feed on feelings of injustice and exclusion - and no 
part of the world will be safe.” (A/69/PV.11, p. 26)
Therefore,  on 
that  observation, 
our  Organization  is  called  upon  to  challenge  itself 
and  undertake  a  self-critique  in  order  to  rise  to  the 
expectations  and  assume  the  role  assigned  to  it  by 
the  San  Francisco  Conference.  In  that  context,  the 
proliferation of terrorism, obscurantism and extremist 
ideologies is of concern for the international community 
and requires combined efforts by all to stem it. 
the  basis  of 
For its part, the Kingdom of Morocco has made an 
active  contribution  to  efforts  to  combat  terrorism  in 
all its forms, as noted and praised by the international 
community.  Its  long-standing  commitment  in  the 
fight  against  that  phenomenon  was  recognized  last 
week  by  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  which 
devoted  a  full  meeting  to  reviewing  its  experience  in 
the  fight  against  extremism  and  intolerance  and  their 
incitement  to  terrorist  acts.  Moroccan  participants  in 
the  high-level  panel  presented  the  role  Morocco  has 
played in the fight against violent extremism through 
its  comprehensive  approach,  which  is  based  on  the 
triad of training, development and security. In addition, 
Morocco’s cooperation with friendly African countries 
in  training  imams  on  the  precepts  of  moderation  in 
authentic  Malikite  Islam  was  welcomed  by  the  panel, 
which consisted of senior religious leaders from Mali, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea and Mauritania. 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  notes  with  satisfaction 
the progress made in certain areas of Africa, including 
Côte d’Ivoire and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
2/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
My  delegation  also  wishes  to  reiterate  the  Kingdom’s 
firm  commitment  to  continuing  the  programmes  of 
cooperation  and  solidarity  with  brotherly  African 
countries 
to  strengthen  South-South  cooperation 
through partnerships based on the win/win approach. 
to 
initiatives 
Moreover,  Morocco,  which  has  always  focused 
on  dialogue  and  consultation,  has  made    a  substantial 
contribution 
for  peaceful  conflict 
resolution.  My  delegation  fervently  hopes  for  an  end 
to  the  violence  in  Syria  and  Libya  and  a  political 
transition that meets the aspirations of the peoples and 
will be able to guarantee territorial integrity, national 
unity  and  stability  throughout  the  region.  Morocco 
also  calls  for  international  support  to  be  mobilized 
on  the  Palestinian  issue  and  for  the  establishment  of 
an independent Palestinian State, living side by side in 
peace and security with Israel. 
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  that  Morocco  remains 
committed and willing to work with all Member States 
of  our  Organization  to  build  a  strong  United  Nations 
that is able to carry out the difficult tasks entrusted to 
it and deal with the many challenges that it must face in 
the twenty-first century. We must all work tirelessly in 
a collective and coordinated manner to ensure respect 
for peace, security and the dissemination of the values   
of  tolerance  and  coexistence,  in  the  service  of  all  of 
humankind.
Mr. Reyes Rodríguez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): I 
thank the Secretary-General for submitting his report 
on the work of the Organization (A/69/1). 
On  24  October  2015,  we  will  commemorate  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  official  founding  of  the 
United Nations. On that same date in 1945, the world 
began  the  process  of  recovering  from  a  bloody  world 
war  that  had  killed  approximately  60  million  human 
beings,  or  about  2  per  cent  of  the  global  population 
at  the  time.  The  51  founding  Member  States  ushered 
in an era that was already faced with the challenge of 
the  destructive  power  of  the  atomic  bomb,  which  the 
inhabitants of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had experienced 
just over two months earlier. 
Seven decades later, humankind is caught between 
life  and  death,  facing  serious  threats.  The  existence 
of  thousands  of  nuclear  weapons  with  the  capacity  to 
render humankind extinct, climate change’s destructive 
acceleration,  severe  pandemics 
rapidly 
expanding,  and  new  threats  and  attacks  against  the 
sovereignty and self-determination of peoples are only 
that  are 
a few of the most serious threats. There are 7.2 billion 
people  waiting  for  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  the 
reason for its very existence.
Cuba  agrees  with 
the  Secretary-General 
that 
priority must be placed on eliminating nuclear weapons 
and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Nothing  can 
justify  the  fact  that,  nearly  25  years  after  the  end  of 
the  Cold  War  was  declared,  humankind  continues  to 
be  threatened  by  the  existence  of  more  than  16,000 
nuclear  weapons,  4,000  of  which  are  ready  for 
immediate  use.  The  use  of  only  a  fraction  of  them 
would  have  catastrophic  consequences  for  our  planet, 
hence the importance of the historic step taken by the 
General Assembly in designating 26 September as the 
International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear 
Weapons,  which  was  recently  celebrated  with  great 
success for the first time. 
The  only  way  to  ensure  that  humankind  will 
never  again  suffer  the  terrible  consequences  of  the 
use  of  nuclear  weapons  is  their  total  prohibition  and 
elimination. To that end, the vast majority of Member 
States  have  proposed  to  conclude  a  comprehensive 
convention  on  nuclear  weapons  prohibiting 
the 
possession,  development,  production,  acquisition, 
testing,  stockpiling,  transfer,  use  or  threat  of  use  of 
nuclear weapons and thus providing for their destruction. 
We call on the Secretary-General to continue to bring 
his to influence to bear on the start of negotiations on 
such a convention. 
Climate  change 
is  unequivocally 
real,  and 
humankind’s hand in its acceleration increasingly clear. 
The Earth’s ice coverage is decreasing. Global surface 
temperature  is  increasing,  and  sea  level  is  gradually 
rising.  There  are  many  extreme  weather  events,  and 
the effects of the acidification of the seas and oceans 
are becoming clear. Global greenhouse gas emissions, 
which drive warming, have not stopped increasing over 
the past four decades.
The root cause of the global environmental crisis, 
including  climate  change,  remains  the  irrational  and 
unsustainable patterns of production and consumption 
stemming  from  the  capitalist  system  of  economic 
domination, which gives rise to inequality and poverty. 
We  cannot  consider  tackling  climate  change  without 
even proposing to address its root causes or engaging 
in  a  determined  fight  against  poverty  and  inequality. 
We  know  that  the  market  will  not  solve  any  of  those 
problems.  As  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Cuba stated in his speech at the 2014 Climate 
14-55823
3/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
Summit,  enormous  efforts  and  clear  commitments 
are  required.  Real  political  will  is  required  from  the 
Governments  of  industrialized  countries,  which  will 
necessarily share the fate of the impoverished South. 
the 
technological  revolution 
It is unacceptable that the Millennium Development 
Goals  cannot  be  achieved  despite  the  vast  resources 
that  exist  and 
that 
humankind  has  wrought.  The  necessary  solutions  are 
being postponed, and we deceive ourselves if we think 
that only a United Nations agreement that establishes 
goals  and  objectives  for  the  sustainable  development 
agenda will address the injustices, inequalities and root 
causes of the underdevelopment of various parts of the 
planet.  The  participation  of  all  Member  States,  first 
and foremost the industrialized countries, is required. 
Certain Powers have a historical debt to the peoples who 
were plundered under colonial and neocolonial regimes 
and  the  unjust  system  of  economic  and  financial 
relations that is currently imposed on the world. 
We cannot achieve a new sustainable development 
agenda  when  the  wealthiest  1  per  cent  of  the  planet’s 
population owns 50 per cent of global wealth and the 
85  wealthiest  people  in  the  world  own  the  equivalent 
of the economic resources of the 3.57 billion poorest, 
who  represent  half  of  the  world’s  population.  A  new 
sustainable  development  agenda  will  remain  out 
of  reach  so  long  as  one  in  five  people  in  developing 
countries still lives on less than $1.25 per day and almost 
1.5 billion people, in 91 countries, continue to live in 
a  situation  of  multifaceted  poverty,  with  concurrent 
deficits in health, education and living standards.
A new sustainable development agenda will remain 
out of reach as long as 842 million people, almost one 
in every eight people, remain food insecure, as was the 
case between 2011 and 2013, or while people continue 
suffering  foreign  occupation,  as  do  the  Palestinian 
people.  The  resources  needed  to  implement  a  new 
sustainable development agenda would be available if 
only a fraction of the vast global military expenditure, 
which  reached  the  colossal  figure  of  $1,747  billion 
in  2013,  were  devoted  to  covering  the  means  of 
implementation required.
The  General  Assembly  has  the  responsibility  to 
mobilize  the  financial  resources  needed  to  overcome 
the  problems  mentioned  and  others  included  in  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization.  The  strengthening  of 
the  General 
Assembly  and  far-reaching  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  into  a  democratic,  transparent  and  inclusive 
body cannot be postponed.
Humankind is facing a new challenge in the impact 
and  spread  of  Ebola  in  West  Africa.  Urgent  action  is 
required.  Cuba  responded  promptly  to  the  call  of  the 
Director-General of the World Health Organization and 
the Secretary-General regarding the situation. The first 
group of international health experts is already in Sierra 
Leone.  The  historic  leader  of  the  Cuban  Revolution, 
Fidel Castro, described those health-care heroes as the 
heroes of our time in an article published on 4 October. 
Let me cite an excerpt from that article:
“It will not be lethal arms manufacturers who are 
honoured in the future. May the example of those 
Cubans  setting  off  for  Africa  inspire  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  other  physicians  around  the  world, 
especially  those  with  greater  resources,  whatever 
their religion, with the firmest devotion to the duty 
of human solidarity.”
This  is  the  spirit  and  the  political  will  that  are 
required  to  overcome  the  challenges  we  find  before 
us.  Cuba -  a  small,  poor  country  under  an  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
largest global Power - is showing that it is possible.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  a  comprehensive  and  forward-
looking  report  (A/69/1).  The  past  year  has  been  a 
difficult one for peace and security, as existing conflicts 
became more complex, new conflicts emerged and new 
forms of violence hit several countries. We commend 
the  Secretary-General’s  statesmanship  in  the  face  of 
those challenges. His single-minded focus on dialogue, 
diplomacy and the pacific settlement of disputes was a 
ray of hope in many dark situations.
The state of peace and security in many parts of the 
world is precarious, and it is drifting towards disarray. 
The post-Cold War equilibrium is under severe stress. 
New cold wars and rifts are surfacing. In hindsight, it 
appears  that  regional  and  trans-regional  institutions 
capable  of  absorbing  the  shocks  of  the  last  year  and 
fending  off  the  tragic  events  we  have  witnessed  have 
not  been  built  over  the  years.  The  United  Nations 
leads the efforts of the international community, but it 
also needs the support of regional underpinnings that 
could transform this community into one family with a 
common idiom for peace and security.
4/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
The  Secretary-General  in  his  assessment  has 
talked  about  worrying  trends  in  the  global  security 
environment.  He  has  specifically  mentioned  Ukraine, 
the Middle East, South Sudan and the Central African 
Republic.  The  differences  between  criminals,  hostile 
groups  and  peace-spoilers  have  blurred.  He  has  also 
alluded to potential safety and security risks from the 
unauthorized  use  of  nuclear,  radiological,  biological 
and  chemical  materials.  We  should  have  strategies  in 
place to counter those threats.
We appreciate the combined efforts of the Security 
Council and the Secretary-General to create a semblance 
of  stability  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
and the extended Great Lakes region, as well as in the 
greater Sahel region, including Mali. But peace in these 
regions, as well as in West Africa, is fragile and prone 
to relapse into conflict. The Ebola virus has made the 
situation worse.
We  support 
the 
the  efforts  of 
international 
community to oppose the reign of terror unleashed by 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham, a phenomenon 
that  does  not  have  the  sanction  of  any  religion  or 
denomination. In addition to dealing with that scourge 
directly, it is imperative to steer warring forces in Syria 
towards dialogue and reconciliation.
After the summer of killings in Gaza this year, a 
two-State  solution  should  not  become  a  mirage  once 
again. We call on the Quartet to revive the stalled peace 
talks to free Palestinian prisoners, lift the blockade of 
Gaza and reach agreement on Palestine’s fully sovereign 
statehood.
United Nations peacekeeping missions play a pivotal 
role in making and sustaining peace. Pakistan, as a top 
troop contributor, will continue to put its peacekeepers 
at the disposal of the United Nations. Only recently, we 
have  deployed  more  than  1,100  troops  to  the  Central 
African  Republic  to  help  stabilize  the  situation  there. 
We  will  fully  engage  with  the  Secretary-General  and 
his high-level panel on the upcoming strategic review 
of  peacekeeping.  We  appreciate  the  need  for  flexible, 
mobile  and  nimble  operations  and  look  forward  to 
discussing  the  full  range  of  issues  covering  core 
mandates,  rapid  deployment,  command  and  control, 
new technologies and their international humanitarian 
law implications. The timely initiative of United States 
Vice President Joe Biden to host a summit has helped 
us put some of those issues on the table so that we can 
come  up  with  a  clearer  road  map  for  peacekeeping 
operations.
In  our  neighbourhood,  we  are  pursuing  a  policy 
of  constructive  engagement  to  resolve  differences 
and  enhance  economic  opportunities  for  the  region. 
Longstanding, festering issues cannot be swept under 
the carpet. As Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said before 
the  Assembly,  the  core  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
has to be resolved through negotiations, in accordance 
with  the  wishes  of  its  people  (see  A/69/PV.12).  In 
that  regard,  he  reminded  the  United  Nations  of  its 
own  responsibility.  We  expressed  deep  concern  over 
the  recent  escalation  of  violations  of  the  ceasefire  at 
the Line of Control and the working boundary by the 
Indian security forces. As a result of the Indian firing 
yesterday, four innocent lives were lost on the occasion 
of Eid al-Adha. We call upon the Indian Government to 
immediately cease fire and help us preserve tranquillity. 
The United Nations Military Observer Group in India 
and  Pakistan  must  also  be  enabled  to  play  its  role  in 
monitoring the ceasefire. 
We  have  welcomed  the  formation  of  the  new 
Government  in  Afghanistan.  We  wish  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  well  as  they  strengthen  their  security 
institutions  and  pursue  economic  development. 
Pakistan  will  steadfastly  work  with  Afghanistan 
to  fight  terrorism  and  create  new  opportunities  for 
collaboration in the industrial, trade, infrastructure and 
energy sectors. 
In  our  ongoing  fight  against  terrorism,  we  are 
determined  to  eliminate  that  threat  from  our  soil. 
Our  heroic  armed  forces  are  taking  out  terrorists, 
dismantling their hideouts and networks, and choking 
the  vicious  forces  and  sources  that  feed  them.  Our 
entire nation stands united to defeat that evil force and 
its ideology of hate.
In the realm of non-proliferation and disarmament, 
Pakistan advocates security for all. To gain movement 
in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament,  the  four  core 
issues  -  disarmament,  a  fissile  material  treaty,  the 
prevention of an arms race in outer space and negative 
security  assurances  -  must  be  tackled  simultaneously 
and without accentuating asymmetries in the existing 
stocks  of  fissile  materials.  Pakistan  qualifies  for 
membership  of  export  control  regimes,  especially  the 
Nuclear  Suppliers  Group,  and  full  access  to  peaceful 
uses of nuclear technology.
14-55823
5/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
United  Nations  reform  should  be  comprehensive. 
The  Security  Council  should  reflect  the  interests  of 
all  Member  States  -  small,  medium-sized  and  large  – 
and not the ambitions of a few. The Prime Minister of 
Pakistan told the Assembly last month: 
to  achieve 
“There  should  be  no  new  permanent  seats  in  the 
Council. That would be contrary to the democratic 
character of this world body” (A/69/PV.12, p. 39).
In  the  next  15  years,  we  will  need  an  integrative 
vision for ambitious goals for sustainable development, 
matching  resources 
them  and  broad 
partnerships  that  would  deliver  on  the  transformative 
universal  agenda  that  we  will  put  together.  The  post-
2015  development  agenda  has  to  address  the  social, 
economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable 
development. But it would be an illusion to think that 
we  could  achieve  those  goals  without  putting  equal 
emphasis on peace and security, democratic governance, 
the rule of law, access to justice, human rights, gender 
parity  and  above  all  institution-building.  Those  are 
all  indispensable  critical  enablers  for  sustainable 
development.
The sustainable development goals, negotiated and 
endorsed by Member States, reflect their collective will 
to end poverty and create conditions for the equitable 
distribution  of  wealth.  We  now  look  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s synthesis report that would include 
the  work  of  the  Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and 
the  recommendations  of 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing.  The 
latter’s 
recommendations will have to be harmonized with the 
rules  that  would  emerge  from  the  third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  next  year. 
That will be necessary to unlock resources, but those 
resources  will  not  be  available  if  we  do  not  work 
hard to build partnerships among the United Nations, 
Governments, businesses, civil society and multilateral 
financial institutions. We believe that we should build a 
review system into the post-2015 development agenda. 
The  Secretary-General’s  extraordinary  leadership 
and diligence were instrumental in making last month’s 
Climate  Summit  successful.  If  conscious  human 
activity  is  the  dominant  cause  of  the  observed  global 
warming,  and  there  is  compelling  scientific  evidence 
that it is, we can take steps to reverse it. It is therefore 
absolutely  necessary  that  the  political  commitments 
made by world leaders at the Climate Summit this year 
be translated into a global climate agreement in 2015. 
During this session, we will support your efforts, 
Mr.  President,  to  make  progress  on  all  those  critical 
issues.
Mr.  Okamura  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating you, Mr. President, on your assumption 
of  duties  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-ninth  session.  Japan  looks  forward  to  your 
leadership  during  the  current  session  in  dealing  with 
the  challenges  that  the  General  Assembly  is  facing. 
Japan  wishes  to  work  with  you  for  the  success  of 
the  session.  I  further  would  like  to  convey  to  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  Japan’s 
deep appreciation for his efforts in guiding the diverse 
activities of the United Nations and for his latest report 
on the work of the Organization (A/69/1).
During  their  visit  to  New  York  for  the  high-level 
segment  of  the  General  Assembly  two  weeks  ago, 
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs Fumio Kishida collaborated with many 
world leaders to make progress on the most prevalent 
challenges facing the world today. While attending the 
2014  Climate  Summit  and  the  high-level  meeting  on 
Ebola, Prime Minister Abe outlined Japan’s response to 
each of those pressing issues. To battle climate change, 
my  Government  will  provide  adaptive  assistance  to 
developing countries, promote technological innovation 
for  energy  efficiency  and  contribute  to  the  future 
international framework. In the fight against the Ebola 
virus, Japan is providing $40 million in new assistance 
for the West African countries affected by the outbreak 
and  supports  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General 
to  establish  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola 
Emergency Response. In that regard, on 3 October the 
Government  of  Japan  decided  to  extend  emergency 
grant aid in the amount of $22 million.
Finally, in his statement to the General Assembly 
(see  A/69/PV.9),  Prime  Minister  Abe  called  upon  the 
Organization and its Member States to work together to 
finally resolve the long-standing issue of the reform of 
the United Nations in a way that reflects the realities of 
the twenty-first century. In that context, Japan seeks to 
become a permanent member of the Security Council 
and  to  take  on  the  appropriate  role  that  such  a  status 
requires.
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  are  the 
Organization’s most important tool for the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  We  should  also 
recognize  the  challenge  facing  us,  that  is,  how  to 
make  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  more 
6/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
sustainable  with  regard  to  both  the  financial  and  the 
human  resource  aspects.  That  requires  us  to  take 
concrete and holistic actions to improve that tool.
In that connection, Japan continues to contribute to 
peacekeeping operations by broadening its involvement 
under  the  banner  of  Japan’s  proactive  contribution  to 
peace  through  commitments  announced  by  Prime 
Minister  Abe  at  the  peacekeeping  summit,  held  in 
September.  Japan  also  supports  the  strategic  review 
initiated by the Secretary-General and will proactively 
contribute  to  peacekeeping-related  issues  during  this 
session  through  active  participation  in  the  upcoming 
discussions in the Special Committee on Peacekeeping 
Operations and the Fifth Committee.
With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(PBC), Japan has been a member of the PBC since its 
establishment in 2005. Since 2011, Japan has held the 
chairmanship of the PBC’s Working Group on Lessons 
Learned. This year, the Working Group held a series of 
meetings on the challenges of United Nations mission 
drawdowns  and  withdrawals.  We  will  conclude  that 
exercise with a report of the Chair, to be issued by the 
end  of  the  year.  We  hope  that  the  report  will  benefit 
the  2015  review  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture  by  providing  a  useful  perspective  on  the 
role to be played by the PBC in the context of United 
Nations mission transition.
that 
I  believe 
We now face the monumental and historic task of 
formulating  and  adopting  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  next  year. 
inclusiveness, 
sustainability and resilience will be important elements 
of the agenda. I would also like to point out that next 
March,  Japan  will  host  the  third  World  Conference 
on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  in  Sendai.  We  believe 
that the Conference will be an opportunity to discuss 
humanitarian  issues  and  disaster  prevention  in  an 
integrated manner and will contribute to international 
cooperation  in  disaster  risk  reduction,  as  well  as  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
The process of the Tokyo International Conference 
on  African  Development  (TICAD)  has  been  running 
since 1993 through close cooperation among Japan, the 
United Nations Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, 
the  African  Union  Commission,  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme and the World Bank. Africa 
and Japan have shared both the concept and the practice 
of  development  rooted  in  the  idea  of  ownership  and 
partnership for over 20 years. To continue building on 
that foundation, Japan will mobilize up to $32 billion 
between 2013 and 2017 in both the public and the private 
sectors, as announced at the fifth Tokyo International 
Conference  on  African  Development  in  Yokohama, 
Japan, last year. Japan is determined to further enhance 
our  efforts  through  the  TICAD  process  to  promote 
transformative,  resilient  and  inclusive  growth  across 
Africa.
Today,  there  are  still  more  than  16,000  nuclear 
weapons  in  the  world.  Japan  believes  that  efforts  to 
address the issue of non-proliferation should be rooted 
in  a  clear  understanding  of  the  humanitarian  impact 
of  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons  and  in  an  objective 
assessment  of  the  state  of  the  international  system, 
which  faces  increasingly  diverse  nuclear  risks.  Japan 
is  determined  to  continue  making  steady  progress  in 
global  nuclear  disarmament  by  helping  to  reduce  the 
number of nuclear weapons, the role that they play and 
the incentive to possess them, as well as by preventing 
the emergence of new nuclear States, the proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapon-related  materials  and  technologies 
and nuclear terrorism.
Japan  promotes  the  agenda  of  a  society  in  which 
women  shine,  as  Prime  Minister  Abe  reiterated  last 
month  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  United  Nations 
and its Member States need to act together towards the 
promotion  of  the  rights  of  various  vulnerable  groups. 
Japan’s  ratification  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights 
of  Persons  with  Disabilities  in  January  is  one  recent 
example  of  its  commitment  to  the  advancement  of 
human rights.
Japan  welcomes  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
vigorous  efforts,  including  the  report  produced  by 
the United Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human 
Rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
Japan, together with the European Union, will sponsor 
another resolution on the human rights situation in the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea at this session 
of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Mahmadaminov  (Tajikistan),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
With  regard  to  administrative  and  budgetary 
issues, the main session is scheduled to consider both 
the  first  performance  report  of  the  2014-2015  budget 
and the 2016-2017 budget outline. From the perspective 
of  applying  budgetary  discipline,  my  delegation  will 
carefully  analyse  and  assess  all  potential  additional 
requirements  for  the  current  budget.  We  request  the 
Secretariat  to  consider  the  next  biennium  budget  on 
14-55823
7/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
the  basis  of  not  just  extending  the  2014-2015  budget 
but  a  fresh  look  at  the  needs  of  the  Organization. 
Japan  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  Secretary-
General’s continued and strong commitment to a better 
management  of  the  Secretariat  and  United  Nations 
facilities.
I will conclude my statement today with a reminder 
that 2015, next year, marks the seventieth anniversary of 
the founding of the United Nations. Japan will continue 
to work closely with the Secretary-General to ensure a 
more effective and efficient United Nations. We hope 
that the United Nations and its Member States will do 
the  same,  while  invoking  a  future  forward  outlook  to 
tackle the most pressing challenges of our day.
Mr. Estreme (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): First 
of all, I wish to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for presenting his report on the work of the Organization 
during the past year and on the challenges facing us in 
2015 (A/69/1). 
As  the  Secretary-General  notes,  this  year  has 
presented  challenges  but  also  significant  progress  in 
the  shared  dialogue  on  the  international  development 
agenda  in  terms  of  both  the  implementation  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  this  year  that 
remains to achieve them and the definition of the new 
development  agenda,  to  be  implemented  from  2015. 
In  that  regard,  we  are  grateful  for  the  report  and  the 
overview  of  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  that  it  provides.  We  particularly 
welcome  the  progress  made,  for  example,  in  Latin 
America and the Caribbean in achieving and exceeding 
the goals set for our region on reducing extreme poverty 
and on equality between men and women in the area of 
education.  We  also  welcome  the  region’s  affirmation 
that  the  employment  rate  has  grown  steadily,  despite 
the  global  employment  rate  seeing  a  slight  drop,  and 
that we are on the way to meeting the goal of reducing 
hunger by half. Those results encourage us to redouble 
our  efforts  in  the  context  of  the  post-2015  agenda  in 
those areas and regions where progress has been slower 
and  to  set  ourselves  more  ambitious  targets  so  as  to 
eradicate extreme poverty once and for all by 2030.
With regard to the discussions on the international 
cooperation development agenda, we wish to highlight 
the  importance  of  the  summit  of  the  Group  of  77 
(G-77) and China, convened by the Plurinational State of 
Bolivia in Santa Cruz de la Sierra in June, in the context 
of the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the 
Group.  The  meeting  allowed  an  open  and  substantive 
dialogue among leaders of the developing world, which 
led  to  the  adoption  of  the  declaration  entitled  “For  a 
new world order for living well” (A/68/948, annex). The 
declaration included definitions to chart the course for 
the G-77 and China in the coming years.
This session is taking place in a year that is clearly 
key  for  defining  fundamental  issues  with  regard  to 
not  only  international  cooperation  and  developing 
countries but also multilateralism as a whole. We have 
the opportunity to strengthen the United Nations as the 
universal and democratic forum par excellence that is 
able  to  reach  consensus  and  to  develop  effective  and 
realistic  solutions  to  provide  greater  safety  and  well-
being to our peoples. In that regard, we believe that the 
negotiation  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  the 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
during  the  first  part  of  next  year  and  the  negotiation 
of an international legal framework for sovereign debt 
restructuring  at  a  time  when  such  a  legal  framework 
is clearly necessary will provide opportunities that we 
should not miss.
inclusion, 
For Argentina, the crux of the debate is sustainable 
development, understood as a concept that encompasses 
the three dimensions of development. The eradication 
of  poverty,  social 
job  creation  and 
environmental  protection  remain  urgent  themes  and 
the  cornerstones  of  the  post-2015  agenda.  Integrated 
strategies  to  overcome  those  challenges  require  a 
greater  commitment  to  providing  financial  resources 
and  technology  transfer,  with  a  true  will  to  close  the 
existing structural gaps among countries.
It is essential to the success of the post-2015 agenda 
that the various development levels of countries, their 
priorities and capacities and respect for the sovereignty 
of States over their resources, on the basis of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities,  be 
into 
account. In particular, I wish to highlight the depth of 
the  analysis  and  the  dialogue  during  the  negotiation 
process  of  the  Open  Working  Group  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  That 
culminated in a final document (A/68/970) that reflects 
the intense and transparent work of the Open Working 
Group. That document must be seen as a fundamental 
and substantive element of the post-2015 development 
agenda negotiation process.
taken 
A  few  days  ago,  on  9  September,  the  General 
Assembly took the historic decision to resolve, within 
a reasonable time frame, a matter of vital importance 
to  the  international  community.  With  the  adoption  of 
8/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
resolution 68/304, entitled “Towards the establishment 
of  a  multilateral  legal  framework  for  sovereign  debt 
restructuring  processes”,  the  United  Nations  decided 
to  develop  and  to  adopt  at  this  session  a  multilateral 
policy  framework  through  an  open  and  transparent 
intergovernmental  process  in  order  to  prevent  the 
predatory  actions  of  vulture  funds  conspiring  against 
sustained,  inclusive  and  equitable  economic  growth 
and the sustainable development of our peoples.
Resolution  68/304  is  a  true  reflection  of  the 
importance and urgency that the overwhelming majority 
of nations of the world grant to a reality that finds us 
unprotected  against  the  use  and  abuse  by  speculators 
of the existing policy gap in the current international 
financial  system  for  sovereign  debt  restructuring. 
Together. we decided that the time had come to provide 
the financial system with a legal framework that enabled 
countries to emerge from the debt crisis in a sustainable 
way. That effort is not only a concern of Argentina or of 
developing countries against vulture funds. It denotes 
taking  a  position  against 
international  extortion 
and  financial  speculation  in  favour  of  sustainable 
development. As the only universal international forum 
where all countries are represented on an equal footing, 
the General Assembly is the right forum to resolve that 
issue.
Paragraph  46  of  the  Secrtary-General’s  report 
points  out  that  the  per  capita  cost  of  peacekeeping 
activities  has  been  reduced  by  15  per  cent  over  four 
years. While we recognize and appreciate the need to 
achieve efficiency in the cost of peacekeeping missions 
and the importance in that regard of mechanisms such 
as a support strategy for field activities, we recognize 
that  such  a  reduction  also  reflects  the  negative  trend 
seen in the Organization of increasing the complexity 
of  mission  mandates  without  making  provision  for 
the  financial  resources  necessary  for  their  proper 
execution.  It  does  not  seem  reasonable  to  demand  an 
increasing number of tasks of our Blue Helmets, which 
involves a greater cost, in places that are operationally 
more complex, while seeking to freeze the budget for 
peacekeeping operations.
In  terms  of  strengthening  the  Organization,  we 
hope that all Member States will continue the ongoing 
dialogue  with  the  Secretary-General  with  regard  to 
implementing  the  proposals  for  reviewing  processes 
linked to both institutional and human resources, while 
always seeking to more effectively achieve substantive 
results, as in the case of the Rights Up Front initiative, 
for example.
With  regard  to  the  United  Nations  information 
technology  and  communications  strategy,  we  support 
the  pursuit  of  sustainable  solutions  and  the  use  of 
new  technology,  provided  that  they  help  not  only  to 
reduce  costs  but  also  to  increase  efficiency  and  to 
meet  objectives  such  as,  for  example,  the  aspiration 
for  better  communication  in  all  official  languages, 
including  Spanish,  so  that  all  countries  and  regions, 
whatever their stage of development, are better able to 
take advantage of and to leverage the tools developed 
by the United Nations and to access the knowledge that 
it gathers and disseminates.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that the President 
and the Secretary-General can depend on the support 
of the delegation of Argentina in our work during this 
sixty-ninth session.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese delegation welcomes the report of Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon on the work of the Organization 
(A/69/1). 
The international situation is undergoing profound 
and  complex  changes.  Our  world  is  becoming  a 
multipolar one, with increasing economic globalization, 
cultural diversification and growing use of information 
technology.  The 
trends  of  peace,  development, 
cooperation and win-win results are growing stronger. 
At the same time, peace still eludes our world. Regional 
conflicts and local wars emerge one after the other. The 
path of global development remains long and arduous. 
The 
international  community  faces  all  kinds  of 
interlinked, long-standing and non-traditional security 
threats. Global issues have become more prominent.
Throughout  the  past  year,  the  United  Nations  has 
continued  to  push  forward  multilateral  cooperation. 
The  Organization  has  adopted  a  series  of  actions  to 
advance  peace,  to  properly  resolve  regional  hot-spot 
issues,  to  promote  economic  and  social  development, 
to  develop  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  to 
coordinate 
international  humanitarian  assistance, 
to  promote  disarmament  and  to  combat  terrorism, 
achieving  outstanding  results.  In  that  way,  it  has  not 
only  addressed  the  concerns  of  Member  States  in 
general,  but  also  has  further  enhanced  the  central 
position  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  multilateral 
system.  China  appreciates  the  work  undertaken  by 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Secretariat.
14-55823
9/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
The  United  Nations,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council as the core international security mechanism, is 
duty bound to maintain international peace and security. 
In  addressing  all  kinds  of  international  threats  and 
challenges,  the  international  community  must  respect 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations. On the basis of respect for the independence, 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Member States, 
we must implement the mechanisms provided for under 
the Charter in an integrated way, resolve issues through 
peaceful means and give full play to the role of regional 
and subregional organizations.
independence  and 
China supports Iraq in its efforts to safeguard its 
national  sovereignty, 
territorial 
integrity.  We  call  for  greater  humanitarian  assistance 
to Iraq so as to help the Iraqi people to overcome their 
difficulties and to achieve national peace and stability.
The  conflict  and  violence  in  Syria  must  cease  as 
soon as possible. China hopes that all parties in Syria 
will  achieve  a  ceasefire,  put  an  end  to  the  violence, 
resume  their  dialogue  and  negotiations  and  find  a 
compromise solution that draws on useful international 
and regional experience, is in line with Syria’s national 
conditions  and  takes  into  account  the  interests  of  all 
parties.
China  firmly  opposes  all  forms  of  terrorism.  We 
support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
to  implement  Security  Council  resolutions  and  to 
coordinate  efforts  to  deal  with  the  threat  of  terrorist 
fighters  on  the  basis  of  respect  for  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
basic norms governing international relations.
China calls on all parties in Ukraine to effectively 
implement the Minsk ceasefire agreement and to seek a 
comprehensive, lasting and balanced political solution 
through dialogue and negotiations. The United Nations 
must play its due role in that regard.
As the starting point for the post-2015 development 
agenda, 2015 will be a significant year. The international 
community  must  demonstrate  a  spirit  of  mutual 
interest, a win-win approach and cooperation and must 
jointly  develop  a  fair,  inclusive  and  sustainable  post-
2015 development agenda. 
China  believes  that  the  post-2015  development 
agenda should achieve three objectives. First, it should 
seek  to  improve  people’s  well-being,  focusing  on  the 
eradication of poverty and the promotion of development. 
Secondly,  it  should  enhance  inclusiveness  so  as  to 
maintain social fairness and justice. Thirdly, it should 
focus  on  implementation  and  promote  the  principles 
of  diversified  development  models  and  common  but 
differentiated 
strengthen  global 
development partnerships and improve implementation 
measures and mechanisms.
responsibilities, 
Climate  change  is  a  challenge  for  all  humankind 
and, as such, calls for the cooperation of the international 
community. Mr. Zhang Gaoli, the Chinese President’s 
envoy  and  Vice-Premier  of  the  State  Council,  led 
the  Chinese  delegation  at  the  Climate  Summit  last 
month. The meeting gave rise to fresh momentum for 
international  cooperation  on  climate  change.  China 
appreciates  that  development.  We  hope  that,  on  the 
basis  of  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities,  fairness  and  respective  capacities, 
the  international  community  will  complete  by  2015 
the negotiations on a new post-2020 agenda to address 
climate change and to ensure fairer, more rational and 
effective arrangements for international cooperation on 
climate change.
The 
international  situation 
is  changing.  The 
opportunites  and  challenges  facing  the  international 
community are changing. The United Nations functions 
and  missions  are  also  undergoing  adjustments.  The 
United Nations must keep pace with the times and, in 
the light of developing situations, carry out rational and 
necessary reforms to strengthen its authority, increase 
its efficiency and better implement its obligations under 
the Charter of the United Nations.
China  welcomes  the  progress  made  in  achieving 
such  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. We stand ready 
to  participate  in  the  discussions  on  United  Nations 
reforms.  On  the  basis  of  seeking  agreement,  while 
putting  aside  differences  and  ensuring  inclusiveness, 
we  support  a  reform  programme  that  reflects  the 
greatest consensus, gains the broadest possible support 
and helps to preserve the unity of Member States and 
the long-term development of the United Nations.
Next year will mark the seventieth anniversary of 
the founding of the United Nations, as well as that of 
the victory of the world war against fascism. China will 
work  with  all  Member  States.  We  firmly  support  and 
adopt a multilateral approach that jointly safeguards the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  basic  rules  governing  international 
relations.
10/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
We will further enhance our support for the work of 
the United Nations, be more actively engaged in United 
Nations  activities  in  all  fields,  continuously  promote 
United Nations efforts and make a greater contribution 
to  building  a  harmonious  world  of  lasting  peace  and 
common prosperity.
Mr. Tin (Myanmar): I have the honour to deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my 
own country, Myanmar.
At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization,  contained  in  document  A/69/1.  The 
report provides a comprehensive and detailed overview 
of the achievements and challenges of the Organization 
on a wide spectrum of issues of common interest and 
concern to all humankind.
The  ASEAN  Charter 
includes  a  provision 
expressing the Association’s commitment to upholding 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law.  Accordingly,  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  greatly  values 
its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  The  Joint 
Declaration  on  Comprehensive  Partnership  between 
ASEAN and the United Nations, adopted in 2011, is a 
clear  reflection  of  our  commitment  to  strengthening 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  In  that  context, 
we  welcome  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  annual 
meeting  of  ASEAN  Foreign  Ministers  with 
the 
Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly on 26 September 2014 in an Assembly side 
event.
ASEAN  will  submit  at  the  current  session  its 
biennial draft resolution entitled “Cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  ASEAN”,  which  will  identify 
areas  of  cooperation  where  ASEAN  can  help  address 
the  challenges  faced  by  the  United  Nations,  such  as 
sustainable  development,  climate  change,  peace  and 
security,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  disarmament 
and terrorism. We count on the continued support of all 
Member  States.  ASEAN  looks  forward  to  welcoming 
the Secretary-General at the upcoming sixth ASEAN-
United  Nations  Summit  to  be  held  on  12  November 
2014 in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar, to further strengthen 
ASEAN-United Nations relations and to explore more 
areas  of  cooperation.  We  view  the  Summit  as  an 
effective  policy  tool  and  another  opportunity  to  give 
policy guidance to strengthen the partnership between 
ASEAN and the United Nations.
In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  highlights 
the substantial progress in the overall achievement of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  while 
stressing  the  need  to  move  forward  to  adopt  in  2015 
the  universal  post-2015  development  agenda,  and  the 
urgent  need  to  take  timely  action  on  climate  change. 
The  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  set 
a good stage for the post-2015 development agenda. In 
that  regard,  ASEAN  highly  appreciates  the  dedicated 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  Mr.  John  Ashe, 
which have resulted in significant progress being made 
in  crafting  a  transformative  post-2015  development 
agenda.  ASEAN  also  commends  the  efforts  of  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  welcomes  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption  in 
September  of  resolution  68/309,  on  the  Working 
Group’s report, as the main vision for integrating those 
goals into the post-2015 development agenda. ASEAN 
also  shares  the  view  that  a  concise  set  of  ambitious 
goals  with  the  overarching  objective  of  eradicating 
poverty and with sustainable development at their core 
must  lie  at  the  heart  of  the  agenda,  which  must  take 
into consideration each country’s context and level of 
development.
There  is  no  doubt  that  climate  change  is  one  of 
the  greatest  threats  to  a  sustainable  future.  In  that 
regard,  we  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General on successfully convening the United Nations 
Climate Summit 2014 on 23 September, a summit that 
attracted the attention of a large group of world leaders 
on the issue of survival. ASEAN is also working hard 
to  address  the  challenges  posed  by  climate  change, 
including  strengthening  the  resilience  of  the  ASEAN 
community  by  effectively  implementing  the  ASEAN 
Climate  Change  Initiative  and  the  ASEAN  Action 
Plan  on  Joint  Response  to  Climate  Change.  ASEAN 
reaffirms the importance of adopting at the twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  a 
new  global  agreement  applicable  to  all  the  parties  in 
2015.
into 
force  of 
Since 
the  entry 
its  Charter, 
ASEAN  has  made  rapid  progress  in  its  institutional 
developments  in  the  area  of  human  rights.  Among 
the  highlights  are  the  milestone  adoption  of  the 
ASEAN Human Rights Declaration in 2012 and of the 
14-55823
11/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
Declaration  on  the  Elimination  of  Violence  against 
Women  and  the  Elimination  of  Violence  against 
Children  in  2013,  following  the  establishment  of  the 
ASEAN  Intergovernmental  Commission  on  Human 
Rights  (AICHR)  and  the  ASEAN  Commission  on  the 
Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Women and 
Children. AICHR has conducted various programmes 
and  activities  in  consultation  and  cooperation  with 
the  ASEAN  sectoral  bodies  and  with  the  relevant 
institutions and external partners. Some results include 
the completion of its thematic study on corporate social 
responsibility  and  human  rights  in  ASEAN  and  the 
successful conclusion of the workshop on human rights, 
climate change and the environment, held in Myanmar 
last month.
With  respect  to  humanitarian  assistance  efforts, 
ASEAN  takes  note  of  the  record  high  amount  of 
$474  million  contributed  to  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  in  the  year  2013.  As  South-East 
Asian  nations  are  also  prone  to  natural  disasters,  we 
welcome  the  disaster  risk  reduction  framework  and 
the  United  Nations  Plan  of  Action  on  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction  for  Resilience.  With  a  view  to  improving 
disaster prevention, preparedness, response, relief and 
recovery,  ASEAN  is  in  the  process  of  implementing 
the  ASEAN  Agreement  on  Disaster  Management  and 
Emergency Response as the main common platform for 
disaster  management  in  ASEAN,  and  it  is  enhancing 
the capability of the ASEAN Coordinating Centre for 
Humanitarian Assistance on Disaster Management.
In the area of peace and stability, ASEAN is striving 
to maintain and promote the Association as a standard-
bearer for regional norms of good conduct, particularly 
through the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-
East  Asia.  The  Treaty  is  regarded  as  the  key  code  of 
conduct  governing  inter-State  relations  in  South-East 
Asia and provides a foundation for the maintenance of 
regional peace and stability. We welcome the growing 
interest  of  non-ASEAN  States  in  acceding  to  this 
Treaty.
importance 
ASEAN  also  attaches  great 
to 
strengthening 
the  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  regime  with  a  view  to  maintaining 
peace,  security  and  prosperity  in  the  region.  We 
are  committed  to  preserving  South-East  Asia  as  a 
zone  free  of  nuclear  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  as  stipulateded  in  the  ASEAN  Charter. 
In  that  regard,  ASEAN  is  committed  to  working 
closely  with  the  nuclear-weapon  States  on  the  early 
signing  and  ratification  of  the  Protocol  to  the  South-
East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty  without 
reservations  by  nuclear-weapon  States.  To  that  end, 
ASEAN is exerting efforts to resume negotiations with 
the nuclear-weapon States in a sideline event during the 
current session of the General Assembly.
ASEAN shares the general deep concern over the 
rise  of  violence  and  brutality  committed  by  terrorist 
and extremist organizations and radical groups in Iraq 
and  Syria.  ASEAN  denounces  all  forms  of  terrorism 
and  all  acts  of  destruction  and  violence.  ASEAN  is 
implementing  the  ASEAN  Convention  on  Counter-
Terrorism  and  the  ASEAN  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action  on  Counter-Terrorism,  which  are  aimed  at 
preventing and suppressing terrorism by addressing its 
root causes, disrupting terror networks and eliminating 
financial  channels.  In  that  regard,  ASEAN  Foreign 
Ministers recently issued a statement on 26 September 
in New York reiterating its support for Security Council 
resolutions 2170 (2014) and 2178 (2014).
ASEAN  is  striving  for  inclusive  and  sustainable 
growth. In view of the different levels of development 
among  the  countries  that  make  up  its  membership, 
ASEAN  has  been  making  efforts  to  narrow  those 
development gaps through its initiative for an ASEAN 
integration  work  plan.  We  would  therefore  welcome 
continued  support  from  ASEAN’s  dialogue  partners, 
the United Nations and other external partners in our 
efforts to achieve full regional integration.
This  year,  under  the  chairmanship  of  Myanmar, 
ASEAN is speeding up its community-building process 
under  the  theme  of  “Moving  forward  in  unity  to  a 
peaceful  and  prosperous  community”.  The  Nay  Pyi 
Taw  Declaration  on  the  Realization  of  the  ASEAN 
Community by 2015 has provided policy guidance aimed 
at ensuring the successful establishment of the ASEAN 
community. We are now on the threshold of realizing 
the  dream  of  a  politically  cohesive,  economically 
integrated, 
people-centred 
community  by  2015  and  beyond.  Next  year  will 
therefore be a milestone not only for the United Nations 
but also for ASEAN member States. We are now setting 
our  sights  beyond  2015  and  working  on  formulating 
a  post-2015  vision  for  the  ASEAN  community.  We 
believe that ASEAN’s collective efforts at the regional 
level will contribute to the work of the United Nations 
in  promoting  peace,  security  and  stability,  as  well  as 
in contributing to inclusive and sustainable growth for 
all.  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  ASEAN’s 
responsible, 
socially 
12/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
resolve  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations in areas of mutual interest.
Mr.  Och  (Mongolia):  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General 
for his annual report on the work of the Organization 
(A/69/1),  which  outlines  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations to address the unprecedented challenges facing 
the  international  community  and  the  progress  made 
over the past year in delivering on the Organization’s 
eight long-term priorities. My delegation will describe 
its position on most of the issues discussed in the report 
in plenary meetings and in the deliberations of the Main 
Committees.
As  we  approach  their  deadline,  there  is  every 
reason to say that the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  have  produced  notable  results  and  made  a 
global  contribution  to  galvanizing  action  designed 
to  achieve  the  agreed-on  goals.  Building  on  that, 
and  resolved  to  pursue  the  unfinished  business  of 
the  MDGs,  the  Member  States  are  now  engaged  in 
setting  the  stage  for  delivering  on  and  implementing 
a  transformative  and  action-oriented  agenda  beyond 
2015,  with  our  sustainable  development  goals  at  its 
centre.  We  commend  the  work  and  outcomes  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Intergovernmental  Committee 
of Experts on Sustainable Development Financing and 
appreciate  the  challenges  they  have  faced  in  striving 
to  meet  the  aspirations  of  all  Member  States.  We  are 
nevertheless  of  the  view  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation process should explore every possible way 
to  adequately  reflect  the  issues  raised  during  those 
deliberations, including the special needs of landlocked 
developing countries.
Mongolia 
is  strongly  committed 
to  meeting 
the  MDGs.  Our  fifth  national  report  on 
their 
implementation  concluded  that  Mongolia  had  already 
reached  the  targets  on  mortality  rates  of  children 
under 5, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, access to water and 
basic  sanitation  and  new  information  communication 
technologies.  However, 
important  goals  of 
halving  poverty,  providing  housing  and  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability  still  remain  the  most 
challenging for us, requiring targeted interventions and 
incremental  efforts.  Mongolia  is  also  implementing  a 
ninth, national MDG, on strengthening human rights, 
fostering  democratic  governance,  enforcing  a  zero-
tolerance  policy  for  corruption  and  emphasizing  the 
the 
cross-cutting  importance  of  good  governance  and 
the  rule  of  law  in  socioeconomic  development  and 
environmental  sustainability.  In  the  year  ahead,  the 
Government is committed to accelerating its progress 
and  implementing  effective  policies  for  achieving 
those MDGs that are are close to their 2015 target and 
those that are lagging behind, particularly on poverty 
reduction.
As a country that is experiencing effects of climate 
change, land degradation, desertification, deforestation 
and  drought  that  pose  a  potentially  permanent  threat 
to its sustainable development, Mongolia fully supports 
and  appreciates  the  Secretary-General’s  leadership 
in  catalysing  global  action  on  climate  change.  We 
commend  the  recent  Climate  Summit,  which  brought 
world  leaders  together  to  announce  their  national 
ambitions and called for bold action and strong political 
mobilization in order to reduce the emission gap, pledge 
to meet the 2°C scenario and reach a meaningful legal 
agreement in 2015. 
to  enhance 
In  that  context,  Mongolia  supports  the  carbon 
pricing  initiative  and  the  New  York  Declaration  on 
Forests, aimed at combating deforestation. This year, the 
Parliament  of  Mongolia  adopted  a  green  development 
strategy  designed 
low-emission  and 
climate-resilient principles for future economic growth 
in Mongolia. By 2030 we aim to reduce greenhouse-gas 
emissions in the energy sector by 20 per cent, through 
increased  energy  efficiency  and  by  ensuring  that  the 
renewable-energy share of our total energy production 
is  at  20  per  cent  by  2020  and  30  per  cent  by  2030. 
Furthermore, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal 
of becoming a global port hub for renewable energy in 
the region, since we have a rare opportunity to create 
a  sustainable  energy  network  through  a  combination 
of  energy  sources  that  include  coal,  solar,  wind  and 
hydropower.
My  delegation  fully  shares  the  deep  concerns 
expressed  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  about  the 
global  security  environment’s  threats  to  international 
peace  and  the  importance  of  conflict  prevention  and 
mediation.  Wars,  crimes,  conflicts  and  atrocities 
committed by terrorist groups continue to pose threats 
to world peace and security. In that regard, Mongolia 
appreciates the efforts of the United Nations to resolve 
the  crises  and  conflicts  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
the Central African Republic, Mali, Ukraine and other 
troubled parts of the world. United Nations peacekeeping 
today is more critical than ever. As an active contributor 
14-55823
13/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
to United Nations peacekeeping operations, Mongolia 
underlines  the  importance  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
strategic review of those operations.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
appeal to the members of the Conference on Disarmament 
to live up to the international community’s expectations 
about  the  persisting  deadlock  in  the  Conference  and 
shares his concern. Mongolia and Mexico will co-chair 
the first part of the 2015 meeting of the Conference, and 
we call on all States to take a bold and decisive position 
on working for meaningful agreement on disarmament. 
As a country with a unique nuclear-weapon-free status, 
and  as  a  firm  advocate  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation, Mongolia supports and is willing to 
contribute to establishing new such zones, including in 
the Middle East and North-East Asia.
We support the General Assembly’s call to ensure 
that  human  rights  are  effectively  mainstreamed  into 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  welcome  the 
Organization’s efforts in that regard. Mongolia is willing 
to share its lessons learned in advancing the rule of law, 
parliamentary democracy and legal reform. Following 
its  successful  chairmanship  of  the  Community  of 
Democracies, Mongolia launched the Asian Partnership 
for  Democracy  initiative  and  is  preparing  to  host  the 
fifth conference of the Freedom Online Coalition next 
year  in  Ulaanbaatar.  In  November  2013  we  brought 
together  women  parliamentarians  from  the  countries 
of  North-East  Asia  to  discuss  the  increasing  role  of 
women  parliamentarians  in  peace  and  development 
through  education  and  opportunities  to  develop  a 
North-East Asian regional network of women members 
of parliament.
For more than a decade, Mongolia has been actively 
advancing  education-related  endeavours  at  the  United 
Nations.  They  include  literacy  initiatives  such  as  the 
designation  of  1990  as  International  Literacy  Year 
and  of  2003-2012  as  the  United  Nations  Literacy 
Decade and a literacy resolution first adopted in 1987 
(resolution 42/104), as well as a resolution on education 
for democracy first adopted in 2012 (resolution 67/18). 
Both  resolutions  will  be  introduced  again  this  year, 
updated to reflect emerging challenges in the area, and 
we count on receiving the same support from Member 
States as in previous years.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  steps  outlined  to 
further  strengthen  the  work  of  the  Organization,  and 
stresses the importance of resuming intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council during the main part of the sixty-ninth session.
In conclusion, I would like to pledge my delegation’s 
strong  commitment  to  working  with  other  Member 
States and to express its full support for the Secretary-
General’s work to reform the United Nations and make 
it more efficient and relevant.
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
The  Secretary-General  has  presented  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session with his report on 
the annual activity of the Organization (A/69/1), which 
is full of information and analysis on the work that has 
been done and problems related to it, but also discusses 
the challenges, opportunities, perspectives and paths to 
follow  in  years  to  come.  Cameroon  is  grateful  to  the 
Secretary-General and his entire staff, at Headquarters 
and in the field, for their work, which can sometimes 
result in the ultimate sacrifice. We commend and urge 
him to move forward in doing his job, which, although 
undoubtedly  complex  and  difficult,  is  noble,  exalted, 
useful and beneficial to the advancement of humankind. 
With regard to the report, I would like to emphasize the 
following issues, which have an important and urgent 
bearing on our common future.
First,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that 
climate change is one of the top priorities of our time, 
one whose harsh consequences our generation has been 
the first to feel and will probably be the last able to take 
salutary measures for the future of our planet. During 
the  Climate  Summit  on  23  September,  we  heard  the 
voices  of  representatives  from  States’  highest  levels, 
from the worlds of finance, business, civil society, and 
from public and private groups, saying in unison that it 
is far past time to do whatever can be done to limit the 
rise in global temperatures to 2°C. There was a chorus, 
too,  of  announcements  of  actions  already  taken  or  to 
come, but based on past experience, I am afraid that all 
those good intentions may not be followed by concrete 
effort when the time comes and that in any case, such 
efforts are mere steps on a long road that demands we 
trot or gallop if we do not want to end up benighted on 
the way. 
Whatever happens, the next meetings of the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in 
Lima at the end of this year and in Paris in 2015, are the 
final stages when the various stakeholders on this issue 
should definitively enshrine in an ambitious and legally 
binding instrument their shared willingness to save our 
future for all of us and for future generations.
14/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
Cameroon  is  resolutely  committed  to  that  road, 
since, like other countries, it is experiencing the impact 
of  climate  change.  Our  rainfall  is  steadily  declining, 
especially  in  our  northern  areas,  bringing  closer  an 
inexorably  advancing  desert.  The  degradation  of  our 
coastal  ecosystems,  owing  to  sedimentary  silting  and 
rising saltwater levels, as well as the accelerated drying 
up  of  Lake  Chad,  is  creating  many  environmental 
problems. 
The  measures  the  Government  has  taken  to  deal 
with this serious situation include the creation in 2009 
of a national climate change observatory to monitor and 
evaluate  its  socioeconomic  and  environmental  effects 
and  to  propose  preventive  measures  to  mitigate  and 
adapt to the negative effects and risks associated with 
such change. We have created a ministerial department 
for the protection of nature and sustainable development.
We have established a Government environment policy 
based on the outcome of a 2011 States-General session 
on  the  environment,  designed  to  improve  our  policy 
coherence  and  governance  structure.  Since  April, 
non-biodegradable plastic packaging under 60 microns 
has been banned.
At the subregional level, Cameroon has become a 
signatory to various agreements, including the Treaty 
on  the  Conservation  and  Sustainable  Management  of 
Forest Ecosystems in Central Africa; an agreement on 
joint forest management and protection and a regional 
convergence plan; and the Yaoundé Declaration, which 
includes,  among  other  things,  adopting  harmonized 
the  accelerated 
national  policies  on  forests  and 
implementation  of  planning 
in  particular 
harmonizing  internationally  recognized  and  agreed-
on  certification  systems  and  developing  the  human 
resources  needed  to  implement  them.  In  addition, 
we  have  strengthened  actions  aimed  at  increasing 
rural  populations’  active  participation  in  planning 
and  managing  sustainable  ecosystems  and  creating 
areas  adequate  to  their  economic,  social  and  cultural 
development,  including  sustainable  mechanisms  for 
financing forest development through income generated 
by  forest  activities;  involving  economic  actors  in  the 
process  of  sustainably  managing  and  conserving 
forest ecosystems; speeding up the process of creating 
protected  transborder  areas  and,  lastly,  strengthening 
the sustainable management of existing protected areas.
the  African 
position  on  climate  change.  The  future  agreement 
we  are  awaiting  on  the  issue  should  respect  the 
Cameroon  also 
tools, 
fully  endorses 
principle  of  differentiation,  among  others,  so  as  to 
take  into  account  different  countries’  capacities  and 
stages  of  development.  Along  with  commitments  on 
reducing  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  it  should  enable 
us  to  strengthen  our  policies  on  adaptation  to  the 
consequences of climate change. Countries of the North 
should follow through on the robust commitments they 
have made for public and private financing on climate 
change  in  the  countries  of  the  South.  Moreover,  the 
future  agreement  must  include  equitable  treatment, 
especially 
for  developing  countries,  concerning 
financing  and  technology  transfer,  specifically  for 
those in the Congo Basin, which indeed have taken on 
heavy sacrifices to maintain and regenerate the world’s 
second-largest  forest  reserve,  at  22  million  hectares, 
in  Cameroon,  which  is  the  second  largest  after  the 
Amazon. These are the lungs of the planet, thanks to 
their capacity to retain carbon and produce oxygen.
In his annual report on the work of the Organization, 
the  Secretary-General  rightly  emphasizes  the  issue 
of  sustainable  development.  On  that  topic,  we  must 
remember  that  the  major  Rio+20  Conference  defined 
“the  future  we  want”.  In  that  regard,  it  launched  a 
certain number of participative and inclusive processes 
that  are  meant  to  formulate  basic  proposals  in  order 
to  develop  a  post-2015  development  agenda  following 
on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
concluded in 2000 and since implemented. Concerning 
the  implementation  of  the  MDGs,  the  Secretary-
General  carried  out  an  assessment  in  his  report,  and 
his conclusion was that their implementation had been 
unequal between and even within countries.
My  country  is  no  exception  with  regard  to  those 
mixed  results.  Like  a  number  of  African  countries, 
Cameroon  has  made  considerable  progress  on  the 
eight MDGs, notably on educational enrolment, parity 
between girls and boys in education, the proportion of 
seats  held  by  women  in  the  national  Parliament,  the 
literacy  rate  of  youths  between  15  and  24  years  old, 
vaccination  coverage,  combating  HIV  and  malaria 
and  the  mobilization  of  public  resources.  Progress 
has  been  slower  in  reducing  poverty;  in  employment 
opportunities,  especially  for  youths;  as  well  as  in 
official development assistance, in part due to broken 
promises by certain development partners. 
The lessons learned from such deficiencies should 
be drawn on to build the post-2015 development agenda 
on a more solid base. The Intergovernmental Working 
Group established for that purpose has made a significant 
14-55823
15/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
contribution  that,  combined  with  contributions  from 
other processes, should allow the Secretary-General to 
prepare a synthesis report that will enable the General 
Assembly  to  launch  negotiations  at  year’s  end.  The 
negotiations  should  be  participatory  and  inclusive, 
transparent  and  consensual.  Cameroon  aligns  itself 
with the common African position formulated on this 
topic. The ambition, therefore, is to eradicate poverty by 
creating conditions within the State in infrastructure, 
technology, 
training  and  management 
that  are  needed  for  economic  transformation,  peace, 
prosperity and sustainable development, while placing 
priority on equity and social inclusion.
financing, 
As  President  Biya 
yesterday, 
6 October, at the opening of the sixtieth Commonwealth 
Parliamentary Association Conference in Yaoundé,
underscored 
“The post-2015 agenda should devise new strategies 
to  substantially  improve  the  population’s  living 
conditions.  All  players  will  need  to  demonstrate 
stronger political will, greater generosity and more 
effective, more concrete and more active solidarity. 
Such  are  the  demands  of  the  interdependence  of 
States and unity of humankind on us. Without that 
added  spirit,  development  by  the  end  of  the  new 
agenda may remain a distant goal”.
Concerning  issues  of  peace  and  security,  the 
Secretary-General in his report analyses developments 
in  a  number  of  conflicts  and  hotbeds  of  tension,  new 
and  old,  in  different  regions  of  the  world.  Cameroon 
appreciates  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the  Secretary-
General 
tensions. 
Prevention,  dialogue,  cooperation  and  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts  are  the  appropriate  means  to 
reach that goal. 
to  reduce  or  eliminate 
those 
As for other forms of threats to international peace, 
security and stability - whether the terrorism of attacks 
or  hostage-taking  carried  out  by  jihadists  or  Boko 
Haram,  or  trafficking  of  drugs  or  people,  including 
migrants;  maritime  piracy;  poaching  or  other  acts  of 
transnational  organized  crime  -  peoples  and  nations 
must  strongly  combat  all  terrorist  aspects  by  pooling 
efforts, initiatives and means.
In  that  spirit,  Cameroon  is  working  on  various 
aspects  of  peace,  security  and  solidarity  with  other 
African countries in general and with those of Central 
Africa  in  particular  to  promote  peace  and  security 
in  our  continent  and  subregion.  For  example,  that 
is  the  case  with  Chad,  Nigeria  and  the  Niger,  which 
are  working  to  effectively  combat  the  terrorist  group 
Boko Haram, or with other brotherly countries such as 
Gabon, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea and the Central 
African Republic, which are working against poaching, 
insecurity and issues related to the forested area of our 
subregion and to the circulation of small arms and light 
weapons.
Our  country  supports  and  actively  participates  in 
the  Peace  and  Security  Architecture  of  the  African 
Union. Cameroon has been chosen to host the logistical 
base for the continental African standby force. We are 
also participating in various security mechanisms under 
the  African  Union  Council  for  Peace  and  Security  in 
Central Africa or the Economic Community of Central 
African States (ECCAS) on issues of peace and security 
in Central Africa.
In connection with the implementation of Security 
Council resolution 2039 (2012), on 24 and 25 June 2013 
Cameroon hosted a summit of the Heads of State and 
Government of ECCAS, the Economic Community of 
West African States and the Commission of the Gulf of 
Guinea on maritime safety and security in the Gulf of 
Guinea.  An  interregional  coordination  centre  with  its 
headquarters  in  our  country  was  establishsed  on  that 
occasion. A year after the summit, the centre officially 
launched its activities on 11 September.
Cameroon  has  taken  part  in  many  peacekeeping 
operations under the United Nations, the African Union, 
ECCAS or the Central African Economic and Monetary 
Community  in  various  places,  including  Cambodia, 
Haiti, the Congo, Chad, Darfur, Côte d’Ivoire, Burundi 
and  the  Central  African  Republic,  where  one  of  our 
senior officers has taken command of the military force. 
We  are  also  participating  in  training  and  capacity-
building for peacekeeping personnel, and Cameroon has 
established an International School for Security Forces 
(ISSF).  We  would  like  to  thank  our  various  bilateral 
and  multilateral  partners  for  the  assistance  that  they 
have already brought for all those initiatives and would 
like to ask them once again for further contributions to 
strengthen their effectiveness, in particular for the ISSF 
and the work of the Interregional Coordination Centre 
to  combat  maritime  piracy  and  armed  robbery  in  the 
Gulf of Guinea.
The  Ebola  virus,  which  is  currently  raging  in 
several  African  countries,  is  turning  out  to  be  a  new 
and terrible threat to peace, security and development, 
not only in those countries but in the whole of Africa 
and  the  world  in  general.  That  is  why  we  welcome 
16/18 
14-55823
07/10/2014 
A/69/PV.21
the robust measures adopted by the Security Council, 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  and 
numerous bilateral and multilateral partners.
We  also  welcome  the  recent  summit  held  here 
on  26  September  on  the  Central  African  Republic,  a 
country  neighbouring  Cameroon.  We  fully  support  it 
in  finding  a  solution  to  the  triple  crisis  —  political, 
security and humanitarian — currently besetting it.
With regard to all the measures taken by the Secretary-
General that are explained in his report to strengthen 
the management of the United Nations — for example 
through  UMOJA,  the  development  of  information 
technology,  the  Capital  Master  Plan,  the  Enterprise 
Resource Planning Programme and staff mobility — we 
support them all in general insofar as most of them have 
been considered and adopted by the General Assembly 
against the backdrop of the recommendations of the Fifth 
Committee and its deliberative and monitoring bodies, 
such  as  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ), the Committee for 
Programme  and  Coordination,  the  Board  of  Auditors, 
the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  and  the  Committee  on 
Conferences, to just name a few.
We  encourage  the  Secretary-General  to  consider, 
with all due attention, relations with the various staff 
associations  in  order  to  ensure  that  they  are  dealt 
with  in  line  with  the  provisions  of  their  statutes,  as 
well  as  the  provisions  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Secretary-General customarily stresses that he leads by 
example  and  that  the  staff  is  the  most  precious  asset 
of the Organizaton. We fully share that point of view, 
and in that light the Fifth Committee and the ACABQ 
must  consider  the  various  reports  submitted  to  them 
at  the  current  session  on  the  management  of  human 
resources  according  to  a  customary  understanding  of 
the competent administrative or budgetary committee.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker on the debate on this item.
Several  representatives  have  requested  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
5  minutes  for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Bishnoi (India): I take the floor in exercise of 
our right of reply to respond to the reference made by 
the representative of Pakistan.
It  is  a  matter  of  deep  regret  that  Pakistan  has 
violated the ceasefire and that their unprovoked fighting 
has led to the loss of civilian lives on the Indian side. 
Six  persons  have  been  killed  and  50  injured.  Firing 
on  innocent  civilians  by  Pakistan  will  only  hamper 
the normalization of relations. The onus of creating a 
positive  environment  is  on  Pakistan,  which  is  utterly 
failing to do so.
Let  everyone  be  assured  that  our  armed  forces 
and paramilitary forces are fully ready, and they will 
respond to provocations.
Mr.  Munir  (Pakistan):  I  also  take  the  floor  in 
exercise  of  our  right  of  reply,  in  response  to  the 
statement just made by the representative of India.
For  seven  days,  Indian  security  forces  have  been 
firing and shelling across the Line of Control and the 
working boundary. Yesterday was Eid day in Pakistan. 
But Indian forces, in complete disregard of the festive 
event, carried out the fire and put four innocent lives to 
death. On the Eid day, when Muslims celebrate the spirit 
of sacrifice, Indian forces played havoc with the lives 
of four families whose dear ones embraced Shahadat.
the 
It is sad that the Indian Government has not been 
able  to  restrain  its  forces  despite  strong  diplomatic 
protest  by  Pakistan.  We  call  upon 
Indian 
Government  to  immediately  cease  fire  and  shelling 
and  help  us  preserve  tranquillity.  The  Government  of 
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has been exercising the 
utmost restrain and responsibility. We also extended a 
hand of friendship to India. However, first, the abrupt 
cancellation of the foreign secretary-level talks and now 
this unprovoked firing, are a cause of deep concern. We 
hope that the Indian side will give peace a chance.
Mr. Bishnoi (India): Regrettably, the representative 
of  Pakistan  has  once  again  taken  the  floor.  We  reject 
all  the  untenable  and  unsolicited  remarks  made  by 
Pakistan.
Mr. Munir (Pakistan): There is no need to repeat 
what  I  have  just  said.  The  ceasefire  on  the  Line  of 
Control and the working boundary must be preserved 
in  the  larger  interest  of  the  region  and  the  peoples  of 
the two countries. In that regard, we once again ask for 
restraint from the Indian Government and its security 
forces, and we also call for the United Nations Military 
Observer Group in India and Pakistan to be enabled to 
play  its  role  in  monitoring  the  ceasefire  and  securing 
14-55823
17/18
A/69/PV.21 
07/10/2014
peace and tranquillity, not only on the line of control 
but also on the working boundary.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
contained in document A/69/1?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of item 108.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
18/18 
14-55823
