United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
23rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 9 October 2014 3 p.m.
New York
A/69/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Imnadze 
(Georgia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 13 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
(b) Follow-up to the Programme of Action of 
the International Conference on Population 
and Development
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/69/62 
and A/69/122)
Mr.  Haniff 
(Malaysia):  Significant  progress 
has  been  made  since  the  Programme  of  Action  of 
the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD) was adopted in 1994 in Cairo. The 
thrust of the Programme is the well-being of individuals, 
underscored by the premises of protecting human rights, 
investing  in  health  and  education,  advancing  gender 
equality and empowering women. Twenty years on, the 
goals  and  objectives  of  the  Programme  remain  valid. 
We have to take it upon ourselves to respond to the new 
challenges  relevant  to  population  and  development, 
given the changing development environment.
Malaysia  shares  the  view  that  the  current  state 
of  the  world’s  population  is  one  of  unprecedented 
diversity  and  change,  reflected  in  new  patterns  of 
fertility, mortality, migration, urbanization and aging. 
The continuation and consequences of those population 
trends  will  present  both  opportunities  and  challenges 
for  the  formulation  and  implementation  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
Since 
the  Programme, 
the  adoption  of 
the 
Government  of  Malaysia,  through  the  Ministry  of 
Women,  Family  and  Community  Development,  has 
developed and implemented its national plan of action. 
We  are  pleased  to  report  that  Malaysia  has  achieved 
most  of  the  objectives  and  goals  of  the  Programme. 
Furthermore,  new  policies  and  programmes  are 
currently being implemented to respond to the changing 
socioeconomic conditions and emerging challenges for 
Malaysia’s  becoming  a  high-income  developed  nation 
by 2020.
Key enabling factors – such as our political stability, 
a harmonious social environment, unity and strength in 
diversity, an educated and trained workforce, abundant 
natural  resources  and  effective  partnerships  with 
stakeholders and nongovernmental organizations – have 
contributed to our success in achieving the Programme 
and other development goals. That has also resulted in 
significant poverty reduction, more balanced economic 
participation and wider coverage of essential services, 
such as health care and education nationwide.
Poverty eradication programmes have been highly 
effective  in  reducing  the  prevalence  of  poverty  from 
8.7 per cent in 1994 to 1.7 per cent in 2012. During the 
same  period,  the  rate  of  extreme  poverty  decreased 
from 2 per cent to 0.2 per cent. The reduction in the rate 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-56474 (E)
*1456474*
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
was  due  to  inclusive  poverty  eradication  initiatives, 
which  were  aimed  at  improving  immediate  welfare 
as  well  as  providing  income-earning  opportunities  to 
ensure sustainability.
The  Government  of  Malaysia  has  given  special 
attention  to  education  for  women.  That  is  evident  in 
the  enrolment  of  women  for  first  degrees  in  public 
universities, which has been consistently about 62 per 
cent of students for the period from 2009 to 2012. As 
for the current 2013-2014 academic year, 68.02 per cent 
of 41,573 new students in public universities are female. 
On  women’s  participation  rate  in  the  workforce,  the 
Government has set a target to increase the participation 
of women to 55 per cent by the year 2015. As a result of 
the programmes we have implemented, Malaysia is set 
to achieve the target, as the participation rate of women 
in the work force has increased from 46.8 per cent in 
2010 to 52.4 per cent in 2013.
More 
than  five  years  ago, 
the  Government 
announced  its  intention  to  increase  the  number  of 
women  in  decision-making  positions  in  the  public 
sector by at least 30 per cent. Now we are pleased to 
note  that,  following  our  proactive  implementation  of 
that policy, the percentage of decision-making positions 
in the public sector held by women has increased from 
18.8  per  cent  in  2004  to  33.7  per  cent  in  2013.  The 
same  target  was  set  in  2011  for  the  corporate  sector. 
Though there is still room for improvement, there are 
encouraging  signs  of  change.  For  a  start,  women’s 
representation in the boards of directors of Government 
investment companies has increased from 9 per cent in 
December 2012 to 15.34 per cent in January 2014.
In  Malaysia,  the  number  of  reported  HIV  cases 
has  declined  steadily.  However,  while  the  epidemic 
was initially dominated by transmission through drug 
users, there has been a rise in HIV cases attributed to 
heterosexual  intercourse  -  a  phenomenon  prevalent 
among younger cohorts. In response, the Government 
has formulated a comprehensive National Strategic Plan 
on  HIV  and  AIDS  2011-2015.  The  National  Strategic 
Plan  incorporates  a  multisectoral  strategy  that  takes 
into account young people’s vulnerability and provides 
free first-line treatment for all patients at Government 
hospitals and clinics and sexual and reproductive health 
education and services. It also encourages HIV testing 
through voluntary testing and counselling.
With  regard  to  reproductive  cancers,  Malaysia 
was  one  of  the  first  countries  in  Asia  to  introduce  a 
national human papillomavirus vaccination programme 
to prevent cervical cancer. Since its inception in 2010, 
a total of $3.2 million has been allocated to implement 
the  vaccination  programme  for  school  girls.  To 
date,  672,970  school  girls  have  benefitted  from  the 
programme.
Despite having achieved almost all ICPD objectives, 
we are constantly assessing the changing socioeconomic 
conditions, such as the decline in fertility and population 
ageing.  Malaysia’s  overall  fertility  rate  declined  from 
2.9  in  2000  to  2.2  in  2006  and  to  2.1  in  2012.  The 
decline in the fertility rate will have profound effects 
on the size and composition of the nation’s population. 
Among  its  other  effects,  it  will  result  in  a  significant 
age structural shift that may directly affect the future 
labour force. That being said, Malaysia recognizes the 
importance and the necessity of fostering a society of 
all ages. As Malaysia is expected to attain the ageing-
nation status by 2030, the Government has formulated, 
approved and implemented a national policy and plan of 
action for older persons. The policy and plan of action 
considers both health and socioeconomic aspects with 
regard to older persons.
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  commitment 
announced  by  the  Minister  for  Women,  Family  and 
Community  Development  of  Malaysia  at  the  twenty-
ninth special session of the General Assembly, on the 
follow-up to the Programme of Action of the ICPD. As 
we respond to the new challenges relating to population 
and development, Malaysia will continue to deliberate 
on and implement the goals of the Programme.
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
is very pleased to be able to take part in this meeting 
on  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD) and to participate in the collective 
assessment of the status of implementation of the ICPD 
Programme  of  Action,  adopted  20  years  ago.  Our 
participation  today  reflects  the  Philippines  renewed 
commitment  towards  the  realization  of  the  ICPD 
promise.
The  Philippines  wishes  to  share  the  following 
the  population  and 
several  points  concerning 
development situation in my country.
With  regard  to  dignity  and  human  rights,  for  the 
Philippines, reducing and eliminating poverty remains 
the core policy and programme framework of President 
Benigno  Aquino’s  Administration  in  its  pursuit  of 
inclusive growth. Recognizing that social and economic 
2/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
inequalities  converge  among  the  poor,  the  country  is 
working very hard to using the fruits of economic gain 
to generate employment and sustainable livelihood and 
to  provide  basic  services  to  around  4.2  million  poor 
families.
10 million overseas Filipinos, who in 2013 contributed 
$22.8 billion to our economy by way of remittances. It 
is  often  misunderstood  that  it  is  part  of  our  policy  to 
export Filipinos. That is not our policy. Our policy is to 
protect every Filipino, wherever he may be.
The  Philippines  remains  among  the  front-line 
States in championing the empowerment of women and 
ensuring  gender  equality.  The  economic  and  political 
status of Filipino women was lauded at the 2013 World 
Economic  Forum  as  among  the  10  highest  in  the 
world. Our national policy on gender and development 
allocates  at  least  5  per  cent  of  the  total  budgets  of 
all  Government  agencies  for  the  implementation  of 
gender-and-development-responsive 
interventions. 
The country likewise supports initiatives to eliminate 
discrimination against the most marginalized groups of 
women and girls, including those experiencing multiple 
and  intersecting  forms  of  discrimination  based  on 
age,  economic  status,  language,  ethnicity,  disability, 
sexual orientation and gender identity and other social 
categories.
The  Philippines  remains  a  champion  in  ensuring 
universal access to quality sexual and reproductive health 
services  and  upholding  the  sexual  and  reproductive 
health  and  rights  of  all  couples  and  individuals.  The 
constitutionality  of  our  Responsible  Parenthood  and 
Reproductive  Health  Act  of  2012  has  been  affirmed 
by  our  Supreme  Court.  And  within  the  Universal 
Health Care framework, institutional capacities among 
Government and civil society organizations are being 
mobilized  and  enhanced  to  improve  access  to  a  wide 
range  of  family-planning  information  and  services 
of  the  highest  quality.  The  Philippines  is  likewise 
supportive  of  all  initiatives  to  protect  and  uphold  the 
rights of adolescents and youth to accurate information, 
comprehensive  sexual  education,  and  health  services 
for their well-being and life-long health.
the  Philippines  has  put 
Regarding  population  movement  and  urban 
management, 
in  place 
appropriate policies to support people’s right to move 
internally. Our policies provide equal opportunities and 
access to social protection, basic services, employment 
and the use of natural resources. We are also working to 
meet the need for housing and support infrastructures 
and to establish an effective database on the needs of 
migrants and local residents.
Our  Government  puts  a  premium  on  promoting 
and  protecting  the  rights  and  well-being  of  our 
On population management, recognizing people as 
the  most  vital  resource  of  the  nation,  the  Philippines 
is  making  a  rational  and  conscious  effort  to  integrate 
population  dynamics  in  all  development  initiatives, 
particularly  in  climate  change  adaptation,  disaster-
risk  reduction  and  the  formulation  of  management 
strategies.
In  the  20  years  of  implementing  our  ICPD 
commitment,  we  do  recognize  that  there  remain 
significant  challenges  to  address.  We  give  special 
attention  to  the  challenge  of  promoting  sexual  and 
reproductive health and rights in the country.
We recommend that the issues and recommendations 
of the ICPD Beyond 2014 Global Review Report and those 
set  out  in  this  statement  be  included  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda. We also express our full support 
for  the  ICPD  Beyond  2014  monitoring  framework  as 
a  basis  for  national  and  global  reporting  on  progress 
that  can  enhance  the  review  and  appraisal  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  by  the 
General Assembly and its commission bodies, including 
the Commission on Population and Development.
Finally,  we  commend  and  support  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  index  report  (see  A/69/122),  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  which  must  be 
carried forward to post-2015 discussions.
Mr.  Holtz  (United  Kingdom):  It  is  a  pleasure  to 
be  here  today  to  reiterate  the  United  Kingdom’s  full 
support for the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
and its subsequent reviews.
In 1994 the Cairo Conference produced an agreement 
that was a major landmark in recognizing the right of 
individuals  to  have  control  over  their  lives  and  that 
placed people at the centre of sustainable development. 
The United Kingdom is proud to have been a staunch 
supporter  of  the  ICPD’s  goals  and  principles  over  the 
past 20 years, particularly recognizing the fundamental 
importance  of  gender  equality  and  human  rights, 
including  universal  access  to  sexual  and  reproductive 
health  and  rights,  as  foundations  for  sustainable 
development.
14-56474
3/13
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
This  ICPD  anniversary  year  and  review  process 
allows  us  to  reflect  on  the  important  achievements 
made  since  1994  in  that  regard,  achievements  that 
have enabled many millions of women and men to be 
empowered to make important personal decisions about 
their  lives,  including  their  sexual  and  reproductive 
health, without discrimination, coercion or violence.
However, the process has also highlighted how far 
we still have to go before we fully achieve the vision 
of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  Many  millions  of 
women  and  girls  around  the  world  are  still  unable  to 
decide whether or not to have children and how many 
they have, and they are denied the ability to experience 
safe,  healthy pregnancy and childbirth. Too  many are 
denied  the  comprehensive  sexuality  education  needed 
to  make  informed  decisions  about  their  bodies  and 
their  lives.  Undermining  the  ability  of  women  and 
girls  to  make  those  decisions  diminishes  not  only  an 
individual’s full potential but also that of families in all 
their forms, communities and societies as a whole.
We  know  –  and  evidence  from  this  review  also 
underlines  –  that  we  cannot  achieve  sustainable 
development  if  discrimination  and  marginalization 
prevail  and  opportunities  are  denied  to  members 
of  our  society  on  the  basis  of  their  gender,  sexual 
orientation, race, age, disability or on any other basis. 
Non-discrimination  and  the  right  of  individuals  to 
lead  a  life  free  from  violence  should  not  be  a  distant 
aspiration but a reality in the year 2014.
in 
Two  critical  barriers 
to  women  and  girls’ 
empowerment,  recognized  as  such 
the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action,  are  female  genital  mutilation 
and child, early and forced marriage. In July, the United 
Kingdom  was  extremely  proud  to  co-host  the  Girl 
Summit  2014  with  UNICEF,  to  support  and  amplify 
efforts  across  the  world  to  tackle  the  acts  of  violence 
against  women  and  girls  and  to  advance  efforts  to 
challenge  social  norms,  customs  and  traditions  that 
are  contrary  to  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights  for 
individuals at all ages. In our view, culture and tradition 
should never be invoked by Member States as a reason 
to deny their responsibility to promote and protect the 
human rights of their citizens.
Looking  forward,  we  must  similarly  consider 
how we, as an international community, can continue 
to  work  together  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the 
ICPD Programme of Action. We should remember, as 
Member States continue to elaborate the United Nations 
development agenda beyond 2015, that we already have 
an important development agenda, crafted in 1994, and 
that  20  years  later  it  has  yet  to  be  fully  implemented 
in any region of the world. It is a universal agenda to 
which we must all recommit ourselves.
to 
The ICPD Beyond 2014 Global Review Report and 
the  Secretary-General’s  index  report  (see  A/69/122), 
presented  during  this  important  review  year,  are 
essential  contributions 
inform  and  guide  our 
discussions  on  priorities  beyond  2015.  We  would  like 
to  thank  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the 
Population  Division  of  the  Secretariat’s  Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  and  the  Office  of 
the  Secretary-General  for  their  extensive  work  in 
completing  those  reports,  and  indeed  throughout  the 
year.
The  regional  outcomes  of  the  review  process, 
in  our  view,  constitute  a  forward-looking  agenda 
that,  if  embraced  fully,  can  enable  Member  States  to 
respond  to  the  needs  and  aspirations  of  their  people, 
including the enjoyment of their human rights and the 
improvement of their well-being and resilience, and to 
achieve  true  and  lasting  sustainable  development.  We 
call on the United Nations system to use the findings 
and  recommendations  of  the  review  process  as  key 
references to strengthen the United Nations support to 
Member States at all levels in our collective push to craft 
a post-2015 development agenda that is transformative 
to people’s lives and that leaves no one behind.
Let me conclude by reiterating the commitment of 
the United Kingdom to realizing the vision and promise 
of Cairo for all and our intention to continue to support 
the ICPD beyond 2014.
Mr.  Andrianarivelo-Razafy  (Madagascar)  (spoke 
in  French):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  represent  the 
Republic  of  Madagascar  at  this  historic  meeting 
devoted to the follow-up of the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD).
The  five  years  of  political  crisis  experienced  by 
Madagascar  has  left  the  Malagasy  people  drained. 
Extreme poverty particularly affects women and young 
people in rural areas. The failure to integrate the concept 
of  population  into  all  development  plans  explains  the 
situation, and has made a large majority of the Malgasy 
population  vulnerable.  In  the  implementation  of  the 
new  general  State  policy,  the  Malgasy  Government 
will spare no effort to conduct a general census of the 
4/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
population  and  to  integrate  the  population  dimension 
into its future national development plan.
Madagascar is working to reanimate its institutional 
framework  by  using  multidisciplinary  studies  dealing 
with the characteristics of poverty. Although immense 
challenges  remain,  the  new  Malagasy  leaders  and  the 
people  are  showing  their  determination  to  redouble 
efforts by giving priority to the development of social 
sectors  in  the  educational  system  and  in  professional 
training, health and nutrition, access to potable water, 
social protection, job creation and the preservation of 
the environment.
The  country  has  already  made 
significant 
achievements.  Among  them  are  the  development  of  a 
legal framework to respond to the needs of the elderly 
and updated development policies in the health sector 
and for youth, as well as the use of data from surveys 
and anthropological studies of households, which allow 
more in-depth studies on poverty, nutritional status, the 
health situation of mothers and children, and women’s 
empowerment.
Despite  the  difficulties,  Madagascar  has  always 
adhered to the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development,  held  in 
Cairo  in  1994,  and  various  meetings  following  that 
Programme, most recently the forty-seventh session of 
the Commission on Population and Development, held 
this April in New York.
The  development  of  the  country  is  on  the  right 
path.  The  Government’s  comprehensive  policy,  which 
has defined the vision of “Madagascar: a Modern and 
Prosperous  State,”  sets  out  challenges  and  strategic 
directions  regarding  access  to  basic  social  services, 
including  priority  to  maternal  and  child  health  and 
free  primary  education  in  public  establishments.  The 
national  development  plan  being  developed  will  put 
the  individual  in  harmony  with  his  environment  and 
at the centre of concerns to ensure the coherence and 
sustainability of actions. The plan will also incorporate 
the  main  dimensions  of  development:  population, 
gender, climate change and sustainable development.
Madagascar  is  facing  huge  challenges,  but  those 
challenges  can  be  met.  They  include  establishing  an 
effective  and  harmonized  social  protection  system, 
strengthening  the  vocational,  social  and  economic 
reintegration of the population by reducing the informal 
sector, and improving the governance of public affairs.
On  this  occasion,  I  extend  my  profound  thanks 
to  all  our  partners  who  contributed  to  alleviating  the 
suffering  of  the  Malagasy  people  during  the  crisis. 
Today,  the  Malagasy  people  have  decided  to  move 
towards inclusive and sustainable development. Ready 
and determined, they intend to overcome all obstacles. 
With  that  momentum,  the  Malagasy  people  count  on 
the support and understanding of States represented her 
so that their aspirations to concrete and tangible results 
can be achieved.
Mr.  Tuy  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
successful  convening  of  the  twenty-ninth  special 
session  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD) beyond 2014 in order to assess the 
status of the implementation of the Programme of Action 
and to renew political support for the actions required 
for  the  full  achievement  of  its  goals  and  objectives. 
We also welcome the reports of the Secretary-General 
(A/69/62 and A/69/122). It is an honour for me to share 
the views of the Royal Government of Cambodia on the 
progress, challenges and comments on this item.
Cambodia  has  made  considerable  progress  since 
affirming its commitment to the ICPD Programme of 
Action,  especially  in  the  areas  of  maternal  mortality 
reduction, 
fertility  decline,  gender  equality  and 
containment of the spread of HIV. Availing ourselves 
of  this  opportunity,  we  wish  to  confirm  our  resolve 
and  will  redouble  our  efforts  to  improve  the  lives  of 
our  people  with  equity  and  dignity  in  coming  years 
and to ensure sustained economic growth and inclusive 
sustainable development.
We wish to thank the United Nations system, which 
through the leadership of the United Nations Population 
Fund  worked  closely  with  the  Royal  Government  of 
Cambodia on a review process through a global survey 
and a series of consultations and reviews in the Asia and 
Pacific region. It also supported national consultations, 
including with civil society, to produce the framework 
of actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of the ICPD beyond 2014.
We  endorse 
review  of 
the  operational 
the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action,  which 
was  based  on  the  use  of  data  of  the  highest  quality 
and  analysis  of  the  data.  We  also  welcome  the 
fact  that  the  country-specific  report  of  the  Royal 
Government of Cambodia on the status of and progress 
14-56474
5/13
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  is 
recognized as being consistent with resolution 65/234, 
on follow-up to the ICPD beyond 2014.
In  our  country  report,  we  have  shown  that 
Cambodia  has  made  extensive  progress  in  adopting 
and  implementing  national  development  policies  and 
key  sectoral  strategies  to  achieve  better  development 
results,  focusing  on  the  following  aspects.  We  have 
been  strengthening  human  capital,  guided  by  human 
rights  standards  and  principles,  and  strengthening 
efforts to improve gender equality, equity and women’s 
empowerment.  We  are  addressing 
issues  of 
adolescent  sexual  reproductive  health  and  rights.  We 
are forging new partnerships with civil society and the 
private  sector,  and  we  are  promoting  the  integration 
of  population  dynamics  and  population  trends  into 
development planning and policy-making.
the 
in 
After 
substantial  declines 
fertility  and 
mortality,  Cambodia  is  experiencing  a  phase  of  rapid 
demographic transition. The labour force is expanding 
with the entry of a large number of working-age youth. 
Backed  up  by  appropriate  policies  in  all  sectors.  that 
has  a  great  potential  to  provide  the  country  with  a 
large demographic dividend through further economic 
development.
Recognizing the influence of population dynamics, 
reproductive  health  and  gender  on  poverty,  the  Royal 
Government  of  Cambodia  will  further  strive 
to 
improve  the  standard  of  living  of  its  people.  It  will 
continue to reinforce the integration of the population 
and  development  agenda  in  a  broad-based  process  of 
inclusive  development  through  the  implementation  of 
the new five-year national strategic development plan. 
The  plan  is  formulated  to  respond  to  new  challenges 
pertaining  to  population  and  development  and  the 
changing development environment.
Despite  the  progress  made  towards  achieving  the 
goals and objectives of the Programme of Action and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  noticeable  gaps 
still  exist  in  the  implementation  of  different  areas  of 
the  Programme  of  Action.  While  recognizing  the 
importance  of  protecting  the  present  achievements  of 
the ICPD, we also need to respond to new challenges 
relevant  to  population  and  development  and  to  the 
changing  development  environment.  We 
therefore 
reaffirm our commitment at the highest political level 
to achieving the goals and the objectives of the ICPD 
Programme of Action.
A stronger partnership is needed to achieve those 
objectives.  That  is  absolutely  vital.  We  call  upon 
Member States to recognize that implementation of the 
Programme of Action requires mobilization of adequate 
resources  at  the  national  and  international  levels. 
Countries  need  new,  additional  resources  from  all 
available funding mechanisms, including multilateral, 
bilateral  and  private  sources.  That 
is  absolutely 
essential  for  the  human  resources  development  that 
is  indispensable  for  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Programme of Action. It includes training, the exchange 
of  experiences  and  expertise,  knowledge  transfer  and 
technical assistance for capacity development. Capacity 
institutional 
development 
capacity, 
and 
monitoring capacities.
including  planning,  management 
strengthening 
entails 
in 
To  sustain  the  momentum  and  gains  made  in 
20  years  of  implementing  the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action,  the  recommendations  derived  from  the  ICPD 
Beyond 2014 review should continue to be prominently 
featured 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme’s Dialogues on Implementation of the Post-
2015 Development Agenda, and in whatever frameworks 
and instruments that may shape the new international 
development  agenda.  The  Royal  Government  of 
Cambodia calls on Member States and civil society to 
spare no efforts in advocating for stronger and bolder 
political commitments to ensure that that is the case.
To  support  developing  countries  in  their  efforts 
to  further  implement  the  Programme  of  Action,  it  is 
highly  critical  that  further  strengthening  of  national 
capacity be given top priority in such a way that national 
Governments  can  genuinely  assume  ownership  in  its 
implementation.  To  enable  developing  countries  to 
fully implement the Programme of Action beyond 2014, 
mobilization of resources from all possible sources and 
the effective use of financing are absolutely essential.
Last  but  not  least,  the  Royal  Government  of 
Cambodia  supports  continuous  and  more  effective 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
in the coming years. We welcome the outcome of the 
Assembly’s twenty-ninth special session, on follow-up 
to the Programme of Action beyond 2014 and the post-
2015  development  agenda.  We  encourage  all  Member 
States not only to recognize the overall progress made 
so far in the Programme of Action, but also to endorse 
the  need  for  its  further  implementation  for  the  bright 
future of the next generations.
6/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
Mr.  Chinyonga  (Zambia):  Zambia  recalls  with 
satisfaction  the  outcome  of  the  twenty-ninth  special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  on  the  follow-up 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD)  beyond  2014, 
the 
commitments made by world leaders and the Assembly’s 
decision  to  take  note  of  the  session’s  deliberations  on 
the findings and recommendations of the ICPD Beyond 
2014  Global  Review  Report.  We  are  pleased  to  have 
contributed to the global survey for the ICPD Beyond 
2014 review, which highlighted the progress made and 
the challenges that still daunt the implementation of the 
ICPD Programme of Action.
including 
We  reiterate  our  support  for  the  views  expressed 
in  the  context  of  the  Africa  regional  review  of  the 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Beyond  2014,  where  we 
joined  in  the  adoption  of  the  regional  plan  of  action 
for implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action. 
We also reiterate the importance of harnessing Africa’s 
demographic dividends, given its youthful population. 
Zambia  wishes  to  stress  that  the  ICPD  Beyond  2014 
review  has  significant  linkages  to  and  implications 
for the review of progress made in the implementation 
of  the  Beijing  Declaration  and  the  Beijing  Platform 
for Action and for the post-2015 development agenda. 
We call for strengthening those outcomes through the 
integration of the findings and recommendations of the 
review.
As  we  highlighted  during  the  special  session, 
Zambia  has  a  young  population.  The  Government  of 
Zambia,  with  support  from  various  stakeholders,  has 
therefore  prioritized  investments  in  the  development 
needs  of  young  people.  Those  include  investments  in 
higher education, where the Government of Zambia is 
making investments in the infrastructure of secondary 
and  tertiary  education  in  order  to  meet  the  higher 
education needs of its youthful population. 
has 
integrated 
comprehensive  sexuality  education  into  the  school 
curriculum  in  order  ensure  that  people  have  access 
to  age-appropriate  information  that  will  enable  them 
make informed life choices and decisions.
the  Government 
Secondly, 
The  third  priority  is  harnessing  demographic 
dividends. The Government of Zambia is spearheading 
a national demographic-dividend study that will inform 
the attainment of economic gains resulting from bold 
and strategic investments in health, education and job 
creation. 
The  fourth  priority  is  youth-friendly  services. 
The  country  is  continuing  to  invest  in  the  needs  of 
young  people  for  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and 
reproductive  rights  through  the  provision  of  youth-
friendly information and services.
Fifthly, to end child, early and forced marriages, the 
Government  is  coordinating  a  multisectoral  initiative 
to end child marriages, which remain prevalent, and is 
addressing sociocultural issues that drive the problem.A 
marriage bill is currently undergoing consultations. The 
bill addresses, among other things, formalizing the age 
of marriage at 18 under both customary and statutory 
law, and the consent of the two parties. All marriages, 
whether  customary,  civil  and  religious,  will  now  be 
required  to  be  registered  upon  meeting  the  stipulated 
criteria.
Sixthly, our national youth policy has been reviewed 
to  incorporate  new  and  emerging  issues  relating  to 
young people.
The  Government  of  Zambia  has  stressed  that 
meaningful  development  cannot  take  place  without 
addressing  fundamental  gender  issues,  particularly 
those  of  women’s  empowerment,  that  continue  to 
constrain development. Addressing gender equality and 
women’s empowerment is therefore central to Zambia’s 
development agenda. Its revised national gender policy 
remains the principal tool for Government to advance 
the status of women. Gender inequality is exacerbated 
by sociocultural norms that prevent women from having 
equal  access  to  education,  health  and  labour  market 
opportunities.  Although  the  country  has  achieved 
gender  parity  in  education,  more  remains  to  be  done 
to ensure equal access in other areas of development, 
including  higher  education.  In  order  to  attain  those 
objectives, legal and policy frameworks have been put 
in place.
reproductive 
rights  are  essential 
Zambia  recognizes  that  sexual  and  reproductive 
health  and 
to 
allowing  all  people  to  achieve  dignity  and  contribute 
to  sustainable  development  through  the  realization 
of  individual  potential.  The  achievement  of  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  and  rights  depends  on 
strengthening  health  systems  by  expanding 
their 
reach  and  comprehensiveness.  The  Government 
remains committed to increase the national budgetary 
expenditure  on  health  with  a  focus  on  women  and 
children  and  to  increase  access  to  family  planning 
14-56474
7/13
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
services.  Zambia  is  making  the  following  noteworthy 
investments in that regard.
First, Zambia is implementing commitments made 
at  the  London  Summit  on  Family  Planning  in  2012, 
which  include  doubling  the  budgetary  allocation  to 
family  planning  commodities,  striving  to  eliminate 
the  unmet  need  for  family  planning,  and  improving 
universal  coverage  through  an  expanded  method  mix 
and  increased  access,  particularly  to  the  underserved 
population. Secondly, it is investing in the construction 
of  650  health  posts  in  all  districts  in  the  country  in 
order  to  bring  health  services  closer  to  the  people, 
especially  in  rural  areas.  Thirdly,  it  is  implementing 
sector devolution.
Zambia reaffirms its commitment to the resolution 
of  the  forty-seventh  session  of  the  Commission  on 
Population  and  Development  that  called  for  the  full 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  and  key 
actions  for  its  implementation  beyond  2014.  These 
include  sexual  and  reproductive  health,  reproductive 
rights,  population  and  development,  education  and 
gender  equality  and  equity,  and  they  are  integrally 
linked to the eradication of poverty and the achievement 
of sustainable development.
Zambia acknowledges the support rendered by our 
cooperating  partners,  including  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund,  in  the  implementation  of  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action.  In  that  regard,  we  wish  to 
support the outcome of the special session in all United 
Nations organs, including in the Executive Board and 
the Commission on Population and Development, and 
to  support  countries  in  the  further  implementation  of 
the ICPD agenda, taking into account the findings and 
recommendations of the ICPD Beyond 2014 review.
Mr.  Baaro  (Kiribati):  Twenty  years  have  passed 
since  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD)  in  Cairo.  We  can  all  agree  that 
much has been done and achieved, as the recent ICPD 
Beyond 2014 Global Review Report points out. However, 
the report notes that much more needs to be done. The 
inequitable  distribution  of  the  gains  from  the  1994 
Programme  of  Action  remains  a  key  challenge,  one 
compounded  both  by  the  ever-changing  landscape  of 
global development and by the ever-changing needs and 
demands of our societies and peoples.
All  of  the  countries  studied  in  the  ICPD  Beyond 
2014 global review conveyed very clear and consistent 
messages. They included the urgent need to eradicate all 
forms of inequalities, the importance of reflecting the 
demographics and dynamics of our populations in our 
development agenda and of recognizing that investing 
in our people – young, old, women and girls, men and 
boys  –  is  of  paramount  importance.  The  underlying 
message conveyed at Cairo remains as valid today as it 
was 20 years ago. It is not about the numbers. It is about 
people. It is about you and me, our children and their 
children’s children.
In  1994,  our 
innovative  and 
courageous enough to formulate and advocate the 1994 
Cairo Programme of Action. Today, we need to ensure 
that we continue with what is just and what is right for 
our people – our people in the global sense – because 
what  was  important  and  what  was  reflected  20  years 
ago continues to be pertinent today. Our responsibility 
is not limited to the borders that define who we are as 
individual nations, but should also encompass who we 
are as global citizens of one global village.
leaders  were 
Investing  in  our  people  means  investing  in  our 
future  to  ensure  that  our  children  and  their  children 
live  a  life  without  prejudice,  a  life  with  the  ability  to 
make informed choices, a life where such choices are 
facilitated  and  supported  by  available  services,  a  life 
without impediments keeping them from claiming what 
is rightfully their due, such as the basic necessities of 
life,  and  a  life  that  they  can  call  their  own  and  that 
neither  adversely  impacts  others  nor  is  adversely 
impacted  by  others.  Furthermore,  investing  in  our 
people underlines the strong linkages between the need 
to preserve our environment for future generations and 
the paramount necessity to ensure that our one planet 
Earth is preserved so it can sustain the lives of future 
generations.
Two  weeks  ago,  we  concluded  one  of  the  most 
successful  conferences  convened  by  the  Secretary-
General on climate change. We applaud the leadership 
and the Secretary-General’s very positive initiative. For 
those of us who live on the front line of the impacts of 
climate change, we welcome Member States’ renewed 
focus  and  commitments  in  support  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  ambitious  announcements  and  calls  for 
action.  The  real  challenge  now  is  to  translate  those 
commitments  and  announcements  into  action  on  the 
ground.
At that same conference, we heard the moving voice 
of a very talented young woman, Kathy, a poet from our 
part of the world, from the Marshall Islands. Her voice 
conveyed the apprehension, the concern and the voice of 
8/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
mothers from low-lying countries like ours, who lament 
what the future might well hold for their children and 
their children’s children in the face of climate change. 
Surely, we members of this family of nations and the 
millions of mothers like Kathy around the world share, 
or  should  share,  the  same  ultimate  goal  —  to  leave  a 
better future to our children and grandchildren than the 
one we have inherited from our forefathers.
I am sure those present here also agree that we should 
emphasize  the  sustainable  and  inclusive  development 
goals that are currently under development for the post-
2015 development agenda. Our world today is as diverse 
as  our  world  of  yesterday;  that  diversity  ranges  from 
the different levels of development, economic growth, 
population  demographics,  physical  and  geographical 
realities to security challenges, just to name a few.
However,  such  diversity  should  not  be  a  divisive 
factor  on  the  path  to  a  new  global  development  and 
economic  order.  Diversity  is  the  all-important  reason 
why we need a new development framework. We have 
reached that stage in global development where we can 
no  longer  ignore  the  intricate  linkages  between  our 
individual national development path and those of our 
neighbours  and  the  world  as  a  whole.  To  ignore  such 
intricate linkages is to ignore our fellow global citizens 
who are, or will become, marginalized and who are, or 
will become, vulnerable through no fault or choice of 
their own.
As an example, the melting of the massive sheets of 
ice in the Arctic region owing to climate change will not 
only have a severe impact on life in that Arctic region, 
but will also result in the demise of future generations 
on the other side of the globe, in particular those living 
on  the  most  vulnerable  low-lying  atoll  island  nations 
like mine, where we are currently are on the front line of 
climate change and the rise in sea levels. And while we 
may be on the front line now, when we fall, others will 
be on the front line, including the many, many millions 
of people who live in human settlements, communities, 
towns and cities in low-lying coastal areas around the 
globe.
Immediate  and  urgent  global  action  is  required 
now  on  climate  change.  Climate  change  is  a  survival 
issue. It is a security issue, a human rights issue and a 
human dignity issue. By acknowledging it as such, we 
will be advocating for the goal described in the ICPD 
Beyond 2014 Global Review Report, namely, to ensure 
sustainable development by placing the human rights of 
all people and individual well-being at the heart of the 
future development agenda.
The time to act is now. It is no longer about what 
caused  climate  change  and  who  is  responsible.  It  is 
about  what  we  can  do  individually  and  collectively 
about it as good global citizens The future of our people 
and  the  future  of  our  world  will  depend  on  visionary 
and  innovative  leadership.  We  need  a  leadership 
that  understands  the  barriers  and  acknowledges  the 
challenges  to  the  equitable  distribution  of  gains. 
Most importantly, we need a leadership that takes the 
necessary steps to address such challenges and barriers 
to ensure that no one is worse off or left behind.
Today’s discussion is very relevant to the discussions 
that  took  place  a  month  ago  in  Samoa  at  the  third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, and two weeks ago during the Climate Change 
Summit  here  at  Headquarters  and  the  general  debate 
that  followed.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
have guided us to where we are now, and we certainly 
will  support  a  post-2015  development  framework  that 
not only builds on the Millennium Development Goals, 
but  that  also  reflects  the  challenges  we  face  today, 
embracing  the  diversity  of  the  world  and  channelling 
it into a sustainable and inclusive development agenda 
that leaves no one behind.
It is imperative that we act now and work hand in 
hand to achieve our ICPD Beyond 2014 goals. Strong 
leadership  from  the  United  Nations  is  very  crucial, 
and I take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-
General  and  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United 
Nations Population Fund for advocating a visionary and 
all-encompassing  framework  for  actions  that  includes 
not  just  the  unmet  challenges  of  yesterday,  but  those 
of today and tomorrow, such as climate change, in the 
post-2015 development framework.
Mr. Sareer (Maldives): I am pleased to participate 
in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  13  (b),  which  is  closely 
related  to  improving  the  lives  of  our  people  and  our 
global  community  of  nations.  This  year  marks  the 
twentieth anniversary of the International Conference 
on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, and 
it  is  timely  for  us  to  take  stock.  As  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/69/122)  notes,  the  most  recent 
data  and  assessments  confirm  that  the  consensus  we 
reached in Cairo in 1994 remains valid even today.
The  Maldives  is  proud  of  its  success  during  the 
past  few  decades.  In  the  1980s,  the  Maldives  was 
14-56474
9/13
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
ranked among the world’s 20 poorest nations. In 2011, 
we graduated from least-developed country status, the 
third country to do so. We have brought down maternal 
mortality  rates  from  500  per  100,000  live  births  in 
1990 to 13 per 100,000 live births in 2012, and infant 
mortality  from  34  per  100,000  live  births  to  9  per 
100,000 live births, respectively. We have consistently 
maintained  a  literacy  rate  of  98  per  cent  for  the  last 
30  years.  Under  the  2008  Employment  Act,  we  have 
guaranteed  maternity  leave  for  working  mothers  with 
three  months’  full  pay,  and  we  have  always  provided 
equal pay for equal work.
We  have  fully  achieved  five  out  of  the  eight 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  we  are  on  track 
for  achieving  the  remaining  three.  While  emerging 
issues  are  becoming  more  prominent,  old  challenges 
persist.  As  a  small  island  developing  State,  climate 
change  threatens  to  erode  our  development  gains  and 
makes  progress  on  the  topics  addressed  by  the  ICPD 
harder to achieve every step of the way. Equal income 
distribution has remained a constant challenge. While 
Maldivan women are among the most emancipated in 
South Asia, enjoying unhindered access to employment, 
education,  health  care  and  social  mobility,  they  have 
limited  opportunity  for  economic  empowerment,  and 
gender-based  violence  also  remains  a  challenge.  That 
is  why  our  Government  has  adopted  a  zero-tolerance 
policy on violence against women.
The  Government  is  in  the  process  of  enacting 
a  gender  equality  law  that  will  establish  a  legal 
framework  for  addressing  all  forms  of  discrimination 
against  women.  The  Government  has  formulated  a 
comprehensive  national  reproductive  health  strategy 
to  ensure  access  to  timely,  adequate  and  quality 
reproductive health care. Furthermore, we believe that 
public awareness and education on HIV/AIDS and other 
sexually transmitted infections need to be strengthened 
and healthy and responsible behaviours encouraged.
Meeting the needs of the youth of the country is a 
major  priority  of  the  Maldives  Government.  Children 
and  youth  account  for  44  per  cent  of  the  population 
of  the  Maldives.  Unemployment  –  especially  youth 
unemployment, which gives rise to a wide-ranging set 
of challenges such as drug abuse and delinquency – is 
of  grave  concern  for  the  public  and  the  Government. 
Major  projects,  such  as  building  a  youth  city,  which 
is  set  to  become  a  major  hub  of  employment  and 
innovation, have been announced, and practical work is 
under way for its realization.
Programmes  that  identify  support  and  empower 
vulnerable  groups  have  been  formulated.  Under  an 
umbrella programme with a policy under which no child 
is left behind, high-risk children are provided with the 
necessary support and care in order to ensure that all 
children reach their full potential. The Maldives has a 
track record of formulating policies based on statistical 
evidence.  Last  month,  we  began  a  new  national 
census, which will play a central role in helping us to 
understand the real and current picture of the national 
population, its strengths and other parameters. Setting 
a  new  precedent,  collecting  data  and  statistics  on  the 
migrant population will enable the Government to take 
further  measures  to  protect  and  serve  the  interests  of 
migrant workers, who, some estimates show, make up 
more than one third of the local population.
The  Maldives  believes  that  we  should  take  into 
account  the  evidence  and  data  available  to  us  today 
in  formulating  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Sustainable development should consider the ecological 
limits of the planet in order make sure that the population 
enjoys basic human rights and dignity and experiences 
socioeconomic well-being. In that regard, we call again 
for the inclusion of the report of the Secretary-General 
and the regional review outcomes in the discussion on 
the post-2015 development agenda.
In the Maldives, we strongly believe that a nation’s 
most precious resource is its people. That is especially 
true for a country as small as the Maldives, which has 
limited  natural  assets.  Without  human  development, 
sustainable  development  cannot  be  accomplished.  We 
remain fully committed to the further implementation of 
the ICPD Programme of Action. We remain committed 
to our people, especially our youth and women, and to 
the full realization of their potential.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Observer State of the Holy See.
Archbishop  Auza  (Holy  See):  My  delegation 
welcomed  the  convening  of  the  twenty-ninth  special 
session of the General Assembly on the follow-up to the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on Population and Development beyond 2014.
The  Holy  See  is  aware  of  the  many  challenges 
that  the  international  community  still  faces  in  order 
to achieve the goal of greater, sustained economic and 
social development for all. Therefore, while noting that 
good  progress  has  been  made  in  the  past  20  years  in 
the reduction of the number of people living in extreme 
10/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
poverty,  the  Holy  See  remains  deeply  concerned  that 
1.2  billion  people  —  or  15  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
population — still live in extreme poverty.
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  world’s  poor 
deserve  and  expect  even  greater  results.  We  should 
refuse, therefore, to be satisfied with the current results 
and we must press forward to consolidate the gains and 
achieve even more to benefit those left behind. Lifting 
people out of extreme poverty is the best guarantee for 
them to enjoy their basic rights and dignity.
My delegation wishes to recall that the Programme 
of Action of the International Conference on Population 
and Development (ICPD) asked States to promote and 
strengthen  the  family  as  a  vital  element  in  the  effort 
to  produce  greater  social  and  economic  development. 
Governments  and  the  international  community  were 
called upon to devote greater attention to and manifest 
greater  solidarity  with  poor  families  and  those  who 
have become victims of war, drought, famine, natural 
disasters, discrimination and violence of every sort. No 
effort should be spared to keep their members together, 
to reunite them in the event of separation and to ensure 
access  to  programmes  designed  to  support  and  assist 
the vulnerable.
While  individuals  and  peoples  have  been  on  the 
move  since  time  immemorial,  migration  has  become 
truly a phenomenon of our times. Yet, more often than 
not,  policy-makers  and  large  segments  of  society  see 
migration only in a negative light. Negative stereotypes 
of migrants are used to promote policies detrimental to 
their rights and dignity. Moreover, migrants, especially 
children and women, are often victims of trafficking. 
Those  issues  demand  our  attention  when  tackling 
problems relating to population and development. There 
must be a way to stop that tragedy, and we must find it.
The  ICPD  recognizes  that  universal  access  to 
quality  education  is  the  most  effective  means  for 
promoting  sustainable  economic,  social  and  political 
development.  It  goes  without  saying  that  access  to 
education for women and girls at all levels is at the heart 
of empowering women within society and of promoting 
equality between men and women.
Together  with  education,  health  is  a  pillar  for 
real  development.  The  health-care 
institutions  of 
the  Catholic  Church  throughout  the  world  remain 
committed  to  ensuring  the  right  to  equal,  effective 
and  morally  responsible  health  care  for  all.  However, 
we  also  note  that  the  role  of  the  ICPD  in  the  area 
of  maternal  health  is  sometimes  used  to  promote 
reproductive  health  rights  that  are  detrimental  to  the 
unborn  human  life  and  the  integral  needs  of  women 
themselves.  Efforts  to  address  maternal  mortality, 
obstetric fistula, child mortality, prenatal and antenatal 
care,  sexually  transmitted  diseases  and  other  health 
matters are sometimes hampered by policies that fail to 
take into account the right to life of the unborn.
Suggesting that reproductive health includes a right 
to abortion explicitly violates the language of the ICPD, 
often  defies  moral  and  legal  standards  within  local 
communities,  and  divides  efforts  to  address  the  real 
needs of mothers and children.
The Holy See is convinced that all efforts to respond 
to the integral needs of communities entail taking into 
account the social, cultural and spiritual needs of all and 
adhering to the international standard set by the ICPD, 
which calls for national laws to be fully respected.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  47/4  of  16  October  1992,  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  International 
Organization for Migration.
Ms.  Muedin 
(International  Organization 
for 
Migration):  One  of  the  most  significant  contributions 
the  1994  International  Conference  on 
made  by 
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  was 
it 
outlined,  through  its  Programme  of  Action,  the  most 
comprehensive internationally agreed text on migration 
of  its  time.  Chapters  IX  and  X  of  the  Programme  of 
Action comprehensively address issues related to both 
internal  and  international  migration.  The  Programme 
was in many ways a catalyst for the substantial global 
debates  and  action  on  migration  that  have  transpired 
since.
that 
While  our  collective  appreciation  of  the  links 
between migration and development has become more 
sophisticated  and  evidence-based  since  1994,  as  was 
demonstrated  at  last  year’s  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development, it is clear that 
the principles and objectives set forth in the Programme 
of Action regarding migration remain vitally relevant to 
today’s efforts to achieve sustainable development.
In  the  early  1990s,  the  number  of  international 
migrants was estimated to be 154 million. Today, that 
number  is  232  million  -  a  figure  that  is  expected  to 
grow  well  into  the  foreseeable  future.  Contemporary 
migration patterns are significantly more complex than 
in  the  1990s,  a  function  of  both  the  sheer  number  of 
14-56474
11/13
A/69/PV.23 
09/10/2014
migrants,  coming  from  an  increasingly  large  global 
pool,  and  the  more  diverse  economic,  social  and 
cultural  backgrounds  of  migrants.  Today,  migration, 
both international and domestic, is one of the four major 
population  dynamics  that  feature  prominently  in  the 
discussions leading up to the post-2015 United Nations 
development agenda to be announced next year.
As  the  principal  intergovernmental  organization 
focused  on  migration  globally, 
the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  (IOM)  fully  supports 
the  report  of  the  Commission  on  Population  and 
Development  (E/2014/25-E/CN.9/2014/7)).  The  report 
acknowledges that migration has increased in volume, 
scope,  complexity  and  impact  since  the  adoption  of 
the  Programme  of  Action.  It  also  acknowledges  the 
important  link  between  migration  and  development, 
and  states  that  it  is  the  responsibility  of  States  to 
promote and protect the human rights of all migrants. 
IOM also supports its call on all States to promote and 
protect  effectively  the  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their migration 
status, and to address international migration through 
international,  regional  and  bilateral  cooperation  and 
dialogue.
The  Programme  of  Action’s  objectives  on 
migration take on new salience and urgency today and 
provide important lessons as we transition to the post-
2015  development  agenda.  In  that  context,  objectives 
such  as  ensuring  migrants’  social  and  economic 
integration,  eliminating  discriminatory  practices 
and  ensuring  protection  against  racism,  preventing 
migrant  trafficking  and  exploitation,  and  providing 
adequate  health,  education  and  social  services  for 
migrants,  refugees  and  internally  displaced  people 
are  all  ,important  means  for  reaching  a  sustainable 
development  goal  target  of  facilitating  orderly,  safe, 
regular and responsible migration.
IOM  is  working  with  its  partners,  including  the 
Special  Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General 
on  International  Migration  and  Development,  the 
18  partner  agencies  of  the  Global  Migration  Group 
and  civil  society  representatives,  to  identify  concrete 
indicators to help measure and monitor the development 
potential  of  migration  and  to  ensure  that  the  human 
and  labour  rights  of  migrants,  displaced  persons  and 
refugees  are  fully  realized.  That  will  help  ensure  the 
universality of the new development agenda, as well as 
ensure that no one is left behind.
Migration  is  inevitable  because  of  demographic, 
economic  and  environmental  factors.  Migration  is 
necessary  to  meet  labour  demands  and  to  ensure  the 
availability of skills and the vibrancy of economies and 
societies. And migration is desirable for migrants and 
host  populations  alike,  when  governed  humanely  and 
fairly  as  a  path  to  the  realization  of  human  potential. 
We hope that the ICPD’s important contribution to that 
discourse will continue to stimulate dialogue and action 
on those issues in 2014 and beyond.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  477  (V)  of  1  November  1950, 
I now give the floor to the observer of the League of 
Arab States.
Mr.  Al-Amri  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  address  the 
Assembly today, on behalf of the League of Arab States, 
on the occasion of this important special meeting on the 
follow-up to the International Conference on Population 
and Development beyond 2014. This meeting can make 
an  important  contribution  to  the  political  support 
necessary to achieving the objectives of the Programme 
of Action of the International Conference on Population 
and Development (ICPD) and providing the necessary 
support to population and development issues.
We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  that 
the  secretariat  of  the  Arab  League  attaches  to  Arab 
population  issues  at  all  levels,  as  reflected  in  the 
national  consultations  and  Committee  meetings  that 
we have held and in today’s meeting. We have always 
been keen to participate in all activities held within the 
framework of the ICPD since its inception and the first 
five-year review. 
In the light of the critical circumstances and major 
challenges  facing  the  Arab  region,  it  is  crucial  that 
we instil peace and eradicate violence in all its forms. 
We must spare no effort to overcome the obstacles to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
by 2015. In that context, we commend the efforts of the 
Arab States to tackle population challenges and growth 
to  advance  education,  health  and  living  standards 
and legal protections for all individuals, as well as to 
promote  women’s  rights  and  gender  equality  and  to 
close social gaps so that all can enjoy full citizenship.
The  League  of  Arab  States  has  always  sought  to 
include  development  plans  and  population  issues  in 
discussions at all summits and ministerial meetings, as 
well as at the annual meetings of national committees 
12/13 
14-56474
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.23
and  councils  on  population,  so  as  to  allow  for  the 
sharing of experiences and partnerships in that regard. 
I  must  mention  the  high-level  Regional  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  in  the  Arab  States, 
held  in  Cairo  in  2013  in  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  Economic  and 
Social  Commission  for  Western  Asia.  It  was  a  very 
critical  juncture  for  establishing  the  priorities  and 
for  discussing  challenges  in  all  transparency  through 
serious  and  constructive  dialogue  in  that  regard.  The 
2013  Cairo  Declaration,  issued  at  that  Conference 
and  endorsed  by  all  Arab  States,  is  the  consolidated 
Arab  document  expressing  our  commitment  to  the 
achievement of the ICPD goals beyond 2014, the MDGs 
and the post-2015 sustainable development goals. That 
is why we requested that the Commission on Population 
and Development include the Cairo Declaration as an 
official document at its forty-seventh session.
The advancement of the Arab vision of population 
and  development  priorities  is  the  building  block  for 
our  sustainable  partnership,  which  should  lead  to  the 
development  of  transparent  and  fair  Arab  population 
policies and plans. Here, we must refer to the partnership 
established between the League of Arab States and the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  at  the  international, 
national  and  regional  levels.  The  partnership  aims 
to  achieve  population  goals  that  run  parallel  to  the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and to follow up on all those achievements through the 
many meetings held since 1998.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my  thanks 
and  appreciation  for  all  the  efforts  made  to  achieve 
the  agreed  population  and  development  goals,  which 
represent our common endeavour.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker of the debate on this sub-item.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 13.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
14-56474
13/13
