United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
14th plenary meeting
Friday, 26 September 2014, 6.30 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Imnadze 
(Georgia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.30 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Sushil Koirala, Prime Minister 
of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal.
Mr. Sushil Koirala, Prime Minister of the Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sushil  Koirala,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Koirala  (Nepal):  I  bring  with  me  warmest 
greetings from the people of Nepal and their best wishes 
for the success of the sixty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly. I congratulate the President of the Assembly 
on his unanimous election and wish to express our deep 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
commitment and dedication.
We commend the Secretary-General for convening 
the Climate Summit. The momentum generated at the 
Summit  should  pave  the  way  next  year  for  a  binding 
agreement  on  climate  change,  with  long-term  and 
comprehensive  global  commitments 
for  climate 
solutions  based  on  the  principles  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities,  equity  and  respective 
capabilities.  It  is  an  irony  that  the  world’s  most 
vulnerable  countries  happen  to  be  the  worst  victims 
of climate change through no fault of their own. There 
should  be  special  provisions  for  climate  financing, 
separate from regular official development assistance, 
so that the mitigation and adaptation needs of the least 
developed countries and small island developing States 
can be addressed.
Terrorism  is  anathema  to  humankind.  It  is  a 
serious  threat  to  peace,  security  and  development. 
Nepal  unequivocally  condemns  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms  and  manifestations.  We  share  the  concern 
about  the  growing  scourges  of  terrorism,  extremism 
and  religious  fundamentalism.  In  that  context,  we 
welcome the convening of the Security Council summit 
meeting earlier this week (see S/PV.7272) and support 
the  adoption  of  resolution  2178  (2014),  on  foreign 
terrorist fighters. We appeal for an early conclusion of 
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism 
and  the  effective  implementation  of  the  provisions  of 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 
Nepal believes that terrorism can best be tackled under 
the auspices of the United Nations with a coordinated 
global response.
Peacekeeping  has  emerged  as  the  central  activity 
of  the  United  Nations  and  an  innovative  tool  for 
dealing  with  challenges  to  peace  and  security.  Nepal 
is  proud  to  have  contributed  to  the  maintenance  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55113 (E)
*1455113*
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
international  peace  and  security 
through  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  troubled  parts 
of  the  world.  Nepalese  Blue  Helmets  have  been 
commended for their professionalism and commitment 
in  trying  circumstances.  We  are  currently  the  fifth-
largest troop contributor to that flagship activity. With 
ever-greater  commitment  and  dedication,  Nepal  will 
continue  to  participate  in  peacekeeping  operations 
and to promote gender equality through the increased 
participation of women in peacekeeping. We urge this 
world body to give due consideration to the safety and 
security  of  peacekeepers.  Nepal  calls  for  equitable 
leadership opportunities, commensurate with Member 
States’ troop contributions, to be made available both at 
Headquarters and in the field.
Nepal stands for general and complete disarmament, 
covering  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  in  a 
time-bound,  verifiable  and  effective  manner.  We 
call  upon  Member  States,  especially  nuclear-weapon 
States, to halt militarization in all spheres and step up 
measures  for  disarmament  in  order  to  free  up  much-
needed dividends for development. We wish to see an 
enlarged  role  for  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, which is based in 
Kathmandu.
As a least developed and landlocked country, Nepal 
faces structural constraints and pervasive and complex 
development challenges. My delegation underlines the 
urgency  of  addressing  the  special  needs  of  the  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  and  supporting  them 
with the provision of enhanced resources for inclusive 
development.
Nepal  calls  upon  the  international  community, 
particularly donors, to fulfil all the commitments made 
in  favour  of  LDCs.  We  underline  the  timely,  full  and 
effective implementation of the Istanbul Programme of 
Action  for  LDCs.  Nepal  aims  to  graduate  from  LDC 
status  by  2022.  An  enhanced  level  of  international 
support to build our productive capacity, improve supply-
side capacity, minimize shocks and vulnerabilities and, 
above all, bring about structural transformation will be 
critical to meeting that target.
Nepal  remains  fully  committed  to  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  and  has  put  the 
required institutional mechanisms in place. We remain 
constructively engaged with all United Nations human 
rights  mechanisms  and  the  international  community 
in  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights.  We 
reject politicization and selectivity in the application of 
human rights standards.
My  Government  is  determined  to  bring  about  a 
dignified closure of the past dating back to the armed 
conflict.  We  believe  the  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission  and  the  Commission  on  Disappearances 
will  help  put  our  past  behind  us  and  prevent  a 
recurrence of grave violations of human rights. I want 
to reassure the international community that there will 
be no blanket amnesty for grave crimes. We underline 
the need to ensure the rights and well-being of migrant 
workers.
Nepal  has  always  supported  the  call  for  a  just, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East 
and  an  end  to  the  spiralling  conflict  in  the  region. 
We  recognize  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people on the basis of United Nations resolutions and 
encourage  Israel  and  Palestine  to  live  as  neighbours 
within secure and recognized international boundaries.
The situation in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria 
demands a more proactive United Nations engagement. 
While  supporting  the  independence,  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  those  countries,  we  urge  the 
United Nations to play an active role in finding a political 
settlement  and  helping  those  countries  move  towards 
national unity, reconciliation and reconstruction.
We hold the view that the people of Ukraine should 
enjoy  the  right  to  freely  decide  their  destiny  without 
any outside interference.
Our  unwavering  faith  and  long  struggle  for  a 
democratic  system  of  governance  has  given  us  the 
strength  to  mainstream  the  armed  Maoist  rebels  into 
a  peaceful  democratic  process  and  lead  a  successful 
transition  from  autocratic  monarchy  to  democratic 
republican order, thereby setting up unique models. The 
political  parties  in  Nepal,  including  the  Maoists,  are 
now working together to have a democratic Constitution 
promulgated through the elected Constituent Assembly. 
My  Government  remains  committed  to  bringing  the 
parties both within and outside the Assembly on board 
within  the  framework  of  constitutionalism,  political 
pluralism and the rule of law, to put the country on the 
path of peace, stability, development and a democratic 
system of governance.
We  greatly  appreciate  our  neighbours,  India 
and  China,  the  United  Nations,  our  friends  and  well-
wishers  in  the  international  community  for  their 
2/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
support for and solidarity with our peace process and 
development efforts. We firmly believe that democracy 
is  indispensable  for  peace,  progress,  stability  and 
prosperity.  Peace, 
sustainable 
development  are  inextricably  linked  and  mutually 
reinforcing. Development is not possible in the absence 
of  peace,  which,  in  turn,  cannot  be  attained  in  the 
absence of democracy.
democracy 
and 
The post-2015 development agenda becomes truly 
transformative  only  when  the  pressing  needs  and 
priorities  of  the  most  vulnerable  and  marginalized 
countries and societies are faithfully integrated into the 
broader global agenda and are provided with sufficient 
resources  to  achieve  them.  A  holistic  development 
process  does  not  leave  an  unfinished  agenda  behind, 
so the remaining tasks of the Millennium Development 
Goals  should  be  fully  incorporated  in  the  post-2015 
agenda.
We  consider  corruption  to  be  the  biggest  enemy 
of  the  people  and  a  threat  to  peace,  stability  and 
development.  My  Government  has  underlined  the 
importance  of  transparency,  accountability  and  zero 
tolerance for corruption as prerequisites to improving 
the quality of governance and delivering results to the 
people.
Nepal’s foreign policy is inspired by the purposes 
and principles of the United Nations. People’s aspirations 
for  peace,  stability,  progress,  decency,  dignity  and 
prosperity  are  firmly  embedded  in  it.  We  strongly 
believe  that  peaceful  coexistence,  mutual  respect 
for  each  other’s  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity, 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, 
and  equality  and  mutual  benefit  should  constitute  the 
fundamental tenets of inter-State relationships.
Reforms  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council, need to reflect contemporary realities 
for making it more effective, representative, responsive 
and  capable  of  handling  increasingly  complex  global 
problems.  We  support  the  expansion  of  membership 
in both permanent and non-permanent categories. The 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  next 
year, should be an occasion to ensure the representation 
and increase the voices of developing countries in the 
Security  Council.  In  that  context,  Nepal  reiterates  its 
support  for  the  desire  of  India,  Japan,  Germany  and 
Brazil to serve as permanent members in the expanded 
Security  Council.  We  also  believe  that  the  African 
continent and Member States that have contributed to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
should also be given due consideration in any expansion.
In seven decades of the United Nations, it has been 
found to be most successful when we honour the letter 
and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  decisions  we  make.  B.P.  Koirala,  the  first  elected 
Prime Minister of Nepal, while addressing the General 
Assembly at its fifteenth session, in 1960, said,
“The  real  solution  of  the  world’s  problems, 
including the problem of world peace and prosperity, 
lies in the direction of strengthening and extending 
the authority of the United Nations. This authority 
will be strengthened and fortified if the decisions 
of the United Nations are respected faithfully and 
loyally by all Powers, great and small.” (A/PV.878, 
para. 235)
In  conclusion,  my  Government  reiterates 
its 
profound commitment to the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations as the embodiment of 
peace, progress and prosperity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Sushil  Koirala,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Irakli  Garibashvili,  Prime 
Minister of Georgia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Irakli  Garibashvili, 
Prime Minister of Georgia, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr. Garibashvili (Georgia): It is a great honour for 
me to represent my country here at the United Nations. 
In  recent  years,  the  world  has  witnessed  Georgia’s 
unwavering  transformation  to  freedom,  democracy 
and  economic  development.  We  have  experienced 
tremendous  advances,  and  occasional  challenges,  on 
our journey to a fuller and more open democracy. We 
are a vastly stronger nation than we were 20 years ago, 
14-55113
3/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
and we are a much stronger nation than we were just two 
years ago. While we have made significant progress in 
a few short years, we are still a young democracy, and 
much remains to be done.
I  am  fortunate  to  be  part  of  a  new  generation 
of  Georgians  who  grew  up  in  the  years  following 
the  Cold  War.  My  entire  life  is  one  of  being  part  of 
remarkable change. Our tremendous progress is due to 
the commitment of the Georgian people to democratic 
values and their embrace of international cooperation. 
Because  our  democratic  transformation  has  been  so 
hard, we do not take anything for granted. To paraphrase 
President Kennedy: we do not do these things because 
they are easy, we do them because they are hard. During 
difficult times, the Georgian people took to the streets 
in peaceful protest and made their voices heard at the 
ballot box to ensure that our democratic path continued. 
I want to express my sincere admiration for the people 
of  Georgia  and  for  their  energy  and  commitment  to 
securing our democratic progress.
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
the  international  community,  our  partner  countries 
represented in this Hall and international organizations, 
especially the United Nations, for supporting Georgia 
and  listening  to  the  Georgian  people.  Despite  all  the 
challenges that we have faced, the citizens of Georgia 
are  full  of  hope.  The  support  from  the  international 
community  and  international  organizations  continues 
to play a crucial role in Georgia’s progress. On behalf 
of  the  people  of  Georgia,  we  thank  them.  Georgia’s 
success is their success. Georgia’s journey is a testament 
to the good work done by the United Nations and our 
international partners.
In the past two years, we have taken concrete steps 
to  break  the  vicious  cycle  of  Government  corruption, 
impunity  and  an  economy  that  benefited  only  a  few. 
We  have  created  a  true  democracy  with  a  system  of 
governance  that  is  more  open,  more  transparent  and 
more accountable and that upholds the rule of law. We 
have  established  a  social  compact  that  rewards  work 
and enterprise, while offering support for those in need.
international 
organizations,  the  Georgia  of  today  is  another  world 
compared to that of two decades ago, or even just two 
years  ago.  Every  sector  of  our  country  has  advanced 
dramatically,  from  health  care  and  education  to  the 
economy and the rule of law. We are now at the dawn 
of a new day for Georgia. Our democratic institutions 
recognized 
As 
by 
various 
are  stronger.  Our  foreign  policy  is  making  us  more 
secure. Our growing economy is working to benefit all 
Georgians.
We are strengthening and consolidating Georgia’s 
democracy.  The  parliamentary,  presidential  and 
municipal  elections  held  in  Georgia  during  this  two-
year period are truly something to celebrate. Because 
Georgia’s democracy was hard-won, there is no going 
back. The Georgian people will hold the Government 
accountable  at  the  ballot  box.  My  Government  must 
earn every vote by serving the people faithfully and by 
achieving progress for the country.
We  are  strengthening  democratic  institutions  and 
establishing  stronger  checks  and  balances.  Our  new 
Constitution decentralizes executive power and creates 
greater accountability at all levels of Government. Our 
Parliament  now  functions  as  a  true  legislature.  Laws 
are proposed, debated and amended. Committees hold 
hearings and question ministers. The old rubber stamp 
has been thrown away. We now guarantee the protection 
of human rights through a new human rights strategy 
and  action  plan.  In  addition,  we  are  equally  proud  to 
have enacted a new anti-discrimination law that extends 
the protection of human rights to all Georgian citizens.
We have restored the rule of law by establishing an 
independent judiciary and by instituting more rights for 
defendants.  We  have  ended  impunity  by  Government 
officials  and  torture  and  abuse  in  our  prisons.  All 
Georgians are now equal before the law. No one is above 
the  law.  Everyone  will  have  the  benefit  of  a  judicial 
process that meets the highest international standards.
truly  strong, 
independent  and  high-quality  media.  The  media,  like 
civil society, are essential to a strong democracy. While 
I  may  not  always  agree  with  what  the  media  say  or 
write, I will always fight to make sure that they have 
the right to the freedom of speech.
We  are  committed 
to  building 
Such reforms will benefit all citizens of my country. 
Our goal is to unify our society through the rule of law 
and  democracy.  Our  commitment  to  aligning  more 
closely  with  the  United  States  and  Europe  goes  hand 
in hand with our commitment to continued democratic 
transformation. The United States is a key strategic ally 
of Georgia. The relationship between our countries at 
all levels of Government has never been stronger.
Increased Euro-Atlantic and European integration 
is  our  way  of  returning  to  the  family  of  European 
4/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
towards  NATO  membership  form 
nations, with whom we share a history, a culture and, 
most important, common values. Our new Association 
Agreement with the European Union and our steadfast 
movement 
the 
foundation for that relationship and provide an umbrella 
for greater engagement. As German Chancellor Angela 
Merkel said at this very rostrum, there is no development 
without security and no security without development 
(see  A/65/PV.5).  Our  Association  Agreement  is  the 
master plan for the gradual establishment of European 
political,  economic,  social  and  legislative  norms  and 
standards. My country has embarked on a demanding 
path of wide-ranging reforms. We will deliver on our 
commitments.
I believe that Georgia’s democratic transformation 
can serve as a model for other countries in the region. 
Today, we pledge to share our experience with nations 
going  through  similar  transitions.  As  we  deepen  our 
European  and  Euro-Atlantic  integration,  we  are  also 
becoming  a  truly  open  and  globalized  economy.  We 
are  making  important  investments  and  reforms  to 
unlock  the  full  potential  of  the  Georgian  economy 
and  the  Georgian  people.  From  universal  health  care 
to  investments  in  clean  energy,  Georgia  is  becoming 
a  twenty-first-s  we  pursue  those  reforms,  we  seek  to 
implement  the  United  Nations  development  agenda 
beyond 2015. We have become a leader in sustainable 
development, taking the outcomes of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  seriously. 
We  are  ready  to  work  together  with  the  international 
community to define a post-2015 development agenda 
that  is  inclusive  and  people-centred.  That  agenda 
will  address  the  need  to  achieve  economic  stability, 
sustained  economic  growth,  the  promotion  of  social 
equity  and  the  protection  of  the  environment.  At  the 
same  time,  we  are  committed  to  enhancing  gender 
equality, women’s empowerment and equal employment 
for every Georgian.
The  future  belongs  to  the  next  generation,  so  the 
protection and development of our children to achieve 
their full potential must be based on greater investment 
in their education.
A  top  area  of  concern  for  Georgia  is  the  issue  of 
internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees. There 
are hundreds of thousands of IDPs in Georgia as a result 
of  Russia’s  military  aggression.  Yet  Georgia  is  still 
taking  in  refugees  from  other  conflict-torn  regions. 
Sadly, the sources of new refugees are increasing, not 
decreasing, especially in the light of current conflicts 
in Ukraine and the Middle East.
We  are  also  doing  everything  we  can  to  help 
our  friends  in  Ukraine  by  providing  humanitarian 
assistance, political support, technical help — such as 
sending doctors and medicine — and serving as a safe 
refuge for children affected by the conflict. We are also 
helping  them  implement  reforms  and  strengthen  their 
democratic  institutions.  The  ongoing  developments 
in  Ukraine  tear  at  our  hearts.  We  strongly  support 
Ukraine’s  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty.  We 
hope  that  the  recent  peace  treaties  will  put  an  end  to 
the military operations once and for all and mark the 
beginning of an irreversible peacemaking process.
The  international  community  has  spoken  with 
increasing  support  every  year  for  the  right  of  return 
by  adopting  the  General  Assembly  resolution  on  the 
“Status  of  internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees 
from  Abkhazia,  Georgia,  and  the  Tskhinvali  region/
South Ossetia, Georgia”. It is essential that the General 
Assembly  continue  to  retain  this  humanitarian  issue 
on  the  agenda  and  support  the  rights  of  the  forcibly 
displaced with strength and conviction.
I  should  now  like  to  address  my  brothers  and 
sisters  in  Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia.  I  say  to  my 
dear brothers and sisters, I dream of the day when we 
shall all live together in peace and prosperity. We are 
committed  to  the  path  of  reconciliation  and  restoring 
Georgia’s full territorial integrity and sovereignty. We 
must work to find a way for them to participate in our 
success,  including  the  benefits  of  our  new  European 
Union Association Agreement.
I  also  call  on  the  Russian  Government  to  fulfil 
its  obligations  under  the  2008  international  ceasefire 
and  join  in  the  search  for  peace,  prosperity  and 
reconciliation. Our history and our values are a source 
of strength. When combined with our strategic location, 
this allows us to offer something unique to the world 
and serve as a driver of peace and security.
Beyond our borders, we aim to contribute to global 
security as a supplier of security, not just a consumer. 
My  country’s  dedication  to  becoming  a  security 
contributor  to  the  world  is  evident  in  our  aspirations 
for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, which are 
the  main  pillars  of  Georgia’s  foreign  policy.  Building 
on the achievements of the past two years, my country 
has made significant progress that reinforces our path 
to  eventual  NATO  membership.  The  historic  NATO 
14-55113
5/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Summit reaffirmed that Georgia will be a member of 
NATO in the future, and our people remain committed 
to this ultimate objective. As a result of the decisions 
taken  at  the  Wales  Summit,  NATO  will  significantly 
increase  Georgia’s  integration  and  provide  tangible 
cooperation  initiatives  that  will  increase  Georgia’s 
capabilities and overall security.
We  are  the  largest  non-NATO  contributor  to  the 
International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan 
(ISAF), and we are committed to taking part in the post-
ISAF mission. From the operation’s outset, our troops, 
including medical personnel, staff officers and training 
instructors, will be ready for deployment. We also plan 
to contribute to institution-building in Afghanistan.
We stand with our allies in combating all forms of 
terrorism and organized crime, anywhere in the world.
We  are  also  proud  to  contribute  to  the  European 
Union’s  efforts  under  the  Common  Security  and 
Defence Policy to build peace and security worldwide. 
In  that  context,  as  the  second-largest  participant,  a 
Georgian battalion and a light infantry company have 
already started a mission under the EU-led operation in 
the Central African Republic.
Our willingness to serve shoulder to shoulder with 
our allies is not the only way Georgia is serving as a 
global security provider. We are also taking a rational 
approach to reducing regional tensions and preventing 
conflict.
Let  me  be  clear,  Georgia  will  never  sacrifice  its 
territorial integrity and sovereignty. However, we will 
continue to look for pathways to reconciliation with our 
brothers and sisters in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
We  Georgians  want  a  good  relationship  with 
Russia, but never at the expense of our sovereignty and 
independence, which we fought so hard to achieve. To 
that  end,  we  are  pursuing  a  new  approach,  different 
from that of our predecessors, in dealing with Russia. 
We  are  pursuing  a  two-track  engagement  strategy 
based  on  our  being  a  responsible,  pragmatic  and 
constructive neighbour. On the first track, we started an 
unconditional dialogue with Russia on the resumption 
of trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian relations. 
On  the  second  track,  we  have  continued  to  seek  a 
peaceful settlement of the August 2008 war and the end 
of Russian occupation of Georgian territory, based on 
the fundamental principles of international law.
The  first  track  has  produced  significant  results 
and  has  helped  reduce  tensions  between  Georgia  and 
Russia.  Trade  has  reopened  and  Georgian  exports  to 
Russia  have  increased  over  300  per  cent.  People-to-
people  exchanges  have  also  increased  dramatically. 
We  are  coexisting  more  calmly  as  neighbours.  This 
approach has also increased stability in the entire South 
Caucasus region.
However, Georgia’s efforts to reduce tensions and 
extend  an  olive  branch  to  Russia  have  not  been  met 
with  the  same  spirit  of  cooperation.  We  have  taken 
every constructive step. Now it is time for the Russian 
Government to stop the occupation and start on a path 
to lasting peace.
My  country  is  committed  to  using  its  strategic 
location to connect Asia, Europe and the Middle East, 
thereby  expanding  trade  from  one  end  of  Eurasia  to 
the  other.  The  reopening  of  the  Silk  Road  is  one  of 
the greatest achievements brought about by the end of 
the Cold War. The Silk Road region accounts for two 
thirds of the world’s population and 60 per cent of its 
gross domestic product. If its potential is fully tapped, 
it will become a key force for the expansion of trade, 
the  development  of  new  energy  resources  and  supply 
chains  and  the  promotion  of  cultural  exchanges.  To 
fully unlock that potential, the international community 
must redouble its efforts in three key areas: trade and 
transport, energy, and people-to-people contacts.
We have deepened cooperation with Turkey, China, 
Kazakhstan,  Azerbaijan,  Armenia,  Turkmenistan, 
Uzbekistan and Afghanistan to integrate transportation 
corridors  and  open  new  routes  that  will  bring  goods 
from  Asia  to  Western  Europe  in  record  time.  Energy 
resources  are  a  key  driver  of  Silk  Road  economic 
development and integration.
We support a key route for Caspian Sea oil and gas to 
travel to Europe. Last year, the Shah Deniz Consortium 
announced a massive expansion of the South Caucasus 
Pipeline 
through  Azerbaijan  and  Georgia,  which 
will  bring  16  billion  cubic  metres  of  new  natural  gas 
to  Europe  and  Turkey  and  thousands  of  new  jobs  to 
Georgia. Several days ago, I was in Azerbaijan to break 
ground and lay the first segment of that new pipeline. 
The expansion will lead to approximately $2 billion in 
new investment by the Consortium in Georgia alone. Of 
course, that will result in Georgia receiving significant 
quantities  of  natural  gas  to  improve  our  economic 
development and security.
6/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
Clean,  renewable  energy  can  also  be  a  driver 
for  regional  energy  cooperation.  In  Georgia,  we  are 
utilizing our massive hydropower resources to become 
a  carbon-neutral  country  and  to  export  renewable 
energy to our neighbours. The potential of the region 
is great, but more is needed to turn such potential into 
reality. Georgia is ready to use its location as a strategic 
crossroads and to do its part to fully revitalize the Silk 
Road.  To  that  end,  I  intend  to  establish  a  Silk  Road 
forum  in  2015,  and  in  Georgia  we  plan  to  launch  an 
annual high-level meeting of all States and international 
organizations that are interested in the future of the Silk 
Road. The forum will discover new ideas for enhancing 
cooperation in the fields of transport, energy, trade and 
people-to-people  contacts  across  the  Silk  Road.  The 
forum will move beyond discussion to action.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reaffirm  that  I  am  so  very 
confident  that  our  best  years  are  ahead  of  us,  and 
that our worst are now part of history. I am confident 
that  Georgians  have  come  together  to  move  our 
nation  forward  and  to  fulfil  the  promise  of  a  strong, 
independent and free, great Georgian nation. Working 
together, there is no limit on what Georgia, the region 
and  the  world  can  achieve.  I  look  forward  to  seeing 
many present here today in Tbilisi.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of 
the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elio  di  Rupo, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium.
Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elio  di  Rupo,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Di  Rupo  (Belgium)  (spoke 
in  French): 
Myriam  Riva,  Emmanuel  Riva,  Dominique  Sabrier, 
Alexandre  Strens  —  these  are  the  names  of  the  four 
people brutally murdered on 24 May in Brussels. Four 
people were killed just because they were in a Jewish 
museum, an institution dedicated to culture, knowledge 
and intelligence. I named these four victims, but I do 
not  forget  the  thousands  of  anonymous  victims  of 
barbarism around the world. For the abject act that took 
place at the Jewish Museum in Brussels is connected to 
the events sweeping the world right now. In Syria and 
Iraq, as well as in countries like Algeria, terrorists kill 
innocent people every day.
Syria and Iraq are of special concern to us. There, 
defenceless people, women and children are victims of 
massacres, persecution, destruction and the theft of all 
their possessions — all because they belong to cultures, 
including the Muslim culture, that the terrorists do not 
agree  with.  Yet,  no  religion,  and  certainly  not  Islam, 
asserts  that  we  must  kill  those  who  think  differently. 
We  have  to  say  this  over  and  over  again  in  order  to 
remove any excuse for these criminals who sow terror.
The  personal  history  of  the  alleged  perpetrator 
of  the  attack  against  the  Jewish  Museum  in  Brussels 
resonates with all of us. It is that of a French jihadist 
who visited Syria in the ranks of the so-called Islamic 
State.  This  jihadist  then  moved  across  Europe  before 
committing the irreparable. It is common trajectory for 
many of these foreign fighters. These foreign fighters 
are  a  threat  to  every  country  in  the  world.  Security 
Council resolution 2178 (2014), adopted the day before 
yesterday, is an important step towards a coordinated 
global  response.  We  must  and  we  shall  put  these 
terrorists in a position where they can no longer inflict 
harm.
Beyond  the  humanitarian  support  it  has  already 
brought to the Iraqi people, Belgium recently decided 
to send six F-16 fighters in support of the fight against 
terrorism in Iraq. My country also wants to strengthen 
cooperation among States. Belgium wants to intensify 
the exchange of information at the European level and 
within  NATO.  As  required  by  the  Security  Council 
resolution, a major preventive effort must also be made 
to prevent jihadist aspirants from reaching the combat 
zones.  We  must  prevent  the  recruitment,  training  and 
transportation of our citizens who may be tempted to 
join  terrorist  groups.  For  minors  in  particular,  each 
country  must  demonstrate  a  total  vigilance  regarding 
border control.
The battle we are waging against terrorism reflects 
a conflict between two understandings of life: respect 
for human beings, which we have and the terrorists do 
not; defence of freedom everywhere and always, which 
the terrorists do not want; tolerance, while the terrorists 
14-55113
7/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
preach and impose intolerance. For us, life is priceless; 
for them, it has no value.
We know that military actions alone are not enough. 
Here, as there, what is needed is to focus on education, 
educational support, openness to others and the world. 
Our  goal  should  be  to  deradicalize  violent  radicals.  I 
cannot  help  but  think  that  the  human  disaster  we  are 
witnessing is also the result of a crushing defeat — that 
of politicians who favoured military solutions and the 
notorious so-called preventive war.
A  few  years  ago,  Belgium  refused  to  participate 
in such an operation in Iraq. How can we not see that 
frustration  and  humiliation  have  further  strengthened 
radicalism?  Things  being  what  they  are,  we  must 
now  deal  with  the  emergency,  and  act,  including 
militarily.  But  we  must  also  consider  the  future  and 
invest  sustainably  in  civil  action.  Everywhere,  the 
establishment of a State that protects its citizens must 
be  the  priority.  Strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and 
improving living conditions is the best crisis prevention. 
Such responses are also much less expensive than the 
day-to-day  management  of  uprisings  and  violence.  In 
many  crises  today,  we  see  the  States  concerned  in  a 
position of great weakness or even virtual failure.
The appointment of a new Prime Minister in Iraq 
sends  the  right  signal  of  inclusion  and  tolerance.  Let 
me  mention  other  illustrations  of  this  principle.  With 
regard  to  the  Middle  East,  this  summer  we  watched 
in  despair  the  launching  of  rockets  in  Israel  and  the 
massive bombing of Gaza. More than 2,100 Palestinian 
and 67 Israeli lives were lost in combat. War is not a 
solution. There is no other way to achieve peace — one 
based on two States coexisting in security — except by 
returning to negotiations. The status quo is obviously 
not an option. We must put the settlement of the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict back at the top of the international 
agenda.  That  settlement  will  also  constitute  an 
important  factor  in  the  stabilization  and  peace  of  the 
entire region and the world. Therefore, we welcome the 
efforts of President Obama in that regard, and we hope 
that he will continue up to the last day of his mandate 
to work in that direction.
The  Arab  Spring  is  another  example  of  what  I 
am talking about. It was a legitimate revolution and it 
speaks to true aspirations for democracy and prosperity. 
We must note that in some countries, chaos and terror 
have long reigned over democracy, while in others we 
are witnessing a return to State totalitarianism. In that 
regard, the international community must do everything 
possible to encourage democracy peace and prosperity.
With regard to Africa, with which Belgium shares 
a long common history, it is in constant forward motion 
and  far  removed  from  common  clichés.  We  must 
strongly support its economic, educational and political 
development. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
in particular in the east of the country, putting armed 
groups where they can no longer do harm is an urgent 
necessity.  In  Sahel,  Mali  and  the  Central  African 
Republic,  the  fight  against  religious  extremism  is 
where our priorities should lie. We must also mobilize 
to support populations in Africa that are dealing with 
the horrific Ebola epidemic.
On  the  fringes  of  Europe,  we  are  seeing  a  broad 
destabilization. Internationally recognized borders are 
being violated, and Ukraine is facing a major challenge 
to be inclusive and representative for both the minorities 
and the majority of the population in Ukraine.
With  regard 
to  Flight  MH-17, 
in  which  six 
Belgian  citizens  died,  the  currently  known  facts  are 
incriminating and we eagerly await the final report of 
the independent experts, who must have free access to 
the site and responses to all of their requests.
We  will  have  peace  only  if  tolerance  triumphs 
over barbarism. And we must act together. Therefore, 
I welcome the American initiative to launch a process 
of  reflection  on  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
peacekeeping.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
prevention and settlement of conflicts is irreplaceable. 
It is the only place where the representatives of the entire 
world can talk to each other. To be sure, the functioning 
of  the  Organization  should  evolve  and  recognize  that 
the  right  to  veto  has  sometimes  been  used  to  prevent 
action from being taken. I am open to the consideration 
that  has  begun  in  that  regard.  However,  the  common 
house that is the United Nations should be preserved at 
any price and encouraged to act. That is why I would 
like to thank our Secretary-General for his unwavering 
efforts to further improve its functioning.
Our world continues to present us with insufferable 
contrasts. Too many human beings are today living in 
extreme poverty. They do not have safe access to water or 
basic health services and they suffer from malnutrition. 
Who can believe that people will resign themselves to 
such a situation and that there will not be yet another 
scandal if they do? The international community — the 
Group  of  Seven  and  the  Organization  for  Economic 
8/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
Cooperation and Development — are beginning to deal 
with tax evasion. That is extremely important, as is the 
fight against corruption. There will not be great human 
progress without a moralization of finance at the global 
level. Our responsibility in that regard is huge.
Too  many  women  and  men  do  not  have  access  to 
a  job  or  to  housing,  only  because  they  are  of  foreign 
origin.  Too  many  women  are  subject  to  moral  or 
physical  violence  only  because  they  are  women.  Too 
many  people  —  lesbians,  homosexuals,  bisexuals  and 
transgender people — are persecuted and rejected only 
because  they  are  different  or  they  love  differently.  It 
is  also  our  responsibility  to  denounce  and  combat  all 
together and systematically those injustices and attacks 
on human rights.
As  a  crossroads  of  many  cultures,  Belgium  has 
always  been  one  of  the  most  open  countries  in  the 
world.  It  has  a  high  standard  of  living.  And  although 
I  think  they  are  still  too  great,  the  inequalities  there 
are  the  smallest  in  Europe.  That  is  largely  due  to  the 
civil support, which is organized by the Belgian State. 
In  particular,  our  health  system  is  exceptional  and 
is  accessible  to  everyone.  Moreover,  Belgium  is  a 
multicultural country both through its demography and 
its abundant and diverse migration. In our country, the 
respect for the other and the culture of compromise are 
part of our cultural heritage.
Belgium, like the European Union, is moving on a 
path  of  solidarity  with  peoples  who  are  encountering 
difficulties.  We  want  to  help  them  to  achieve  their 
legitimate aspirations for a more just world. We must 
also remain vigilant so that we do not fall into the trap 
of social regression and increasing inequalities. All the 
ethical progress that we have achieved is precious and 
must be preserved.
I will conclude by saying that human fraternity is 
not  a  utopia.  It  is  what  has  often  allowed  us  to  make 
great  progress.  We  must  go  beyond  borders  to  form 
new types of cooperation, reduce inequalities and bring 
about  new  hope.  The  most  powerful  obstacle  to  war 
and  violence  is  human  fraternity.  It  is  that  fraternity 
that  will  enable  us  tomorrow  to  better  share  the 
planet’s resources, to offer a future to each and every 
child  and  to  make  sure  that  peace  reigns  everywhere 
and for everyone. Members of the Assembly may rest 
assured that my country will continue to do everything 
it can to bring peoples together. We believe in sharing 
and  solidarity,  and  we  thus  find  it  entirely  natural  to 
continue  to  support  Member  States  in  their  many 
struggles for peace and justice.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Belgium for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mrs. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Trinidad and Tobago.
Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-
Bissessar, Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mrs.  Persad-Bissessar  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I 
would like to thank and congratulate Mr. John Ashe of 
Antigua and Barbuda, who during his time as President 
laid  the  foundation  and  established  the  conditions 
for  formulating  a  new  development  agenda  geared 
to  influencing  the  sustainable  development  of  the 
members of the General Assembly.
I would also like to congratulate the new President 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  His  tenure  comes  at  a  time 
when  the  global  family  is  facing  very  serious  threats 
from the Ebola virus and from what I call the terrorist 
virus,  threats  that  demand  that  we  all  marshal  our 
human,  financial  and  other  resources  in  a  global 
partnership aimed at combating these modern plagues. 
The  President’s  tenure  also  comes  as  we  are  about  to 
commence the second phase of our formulation of the 
post-2015 development agenda. I am confident, as I am 
sure we all are, that he will administer and lead with 
distinction.
Today  it  is  a  privilege  for  me  to  share  with  the 
Assembly  the  perspectives  of  the  Government  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  on  our  priorities  for  delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda,  according  to  the  President’s 
implementing  a 
14-55113
9/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
aptly  selected  theme.  Last  year  we  considered  how 
we would set the stage for the process to be launched 
during this sixty-ninth session on finalizing the post-
2015  development  agenda.  I  noted  then  that  when  we 
adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 
and  introduced  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), a new chapter opened for the United Nations 
(see  A/68/PV.10).  That  chapter  would  see  the  United 
Nations positioned as a vehicle for assisting developing 
countries,  especially  the  most  vulnerable,  in  their 
efforts to reduce poverty and hunger, and for providing 
an  environment  that  would  enable  States  to  develop 
their economies and thus help their people rise out of 
persistent poverty.
Measures  must  now  be  put  in  place  to  spur  a 
proactive rather than reactive approach to the issue of 
development  in  this  transformative  post-2015  agenda. 
With  the  experience  of  the  challenges  and  lessons 
encountered in the past 14 years in the implementation 
of  the  MDGs,  we  are  now  at  a  critical  juncture  in 
putting  into  operation  the  elements  we  agreed  to  at 
the  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20) so that they will constitute the 
future we want. The current model was built on what 
we agreed to at the Millennium Summit, but in some 
ways  it  has  fallen  short  of  the  expectations  of  many 
developing countries.
However, the Government and people of Trinidad 
and  Tobago  have  been  able  to  achieve  this  objective 
because it formed an integral part of our 2011 medium-
term policy framework, through which we incorporated 
and aligned the MDGs and their targets with Trinidad 
and  Tobago’s  medium-term  national  priorities. 
Consequently, some of the goals, targets and indicators 
were  modified  in  the  light  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s 
unique development circumstances and its achievement 
of  several  of  the  MDGs.  That  approach  resulted  in, 
for example, modified targets for education, including 
achieving  universal  early-childhood  education  and  a 
60 per cent participation rate in tertiary education.
However,  I  am  delighted  to  say  that  we  have 
surpassed  many  of  our  own  targets,  as  well  as  some 
of  the  MDGs.  So  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  we  now 
have  universal  free  primary-  and  secondary-school 
education, and, as I said, we have surpassed our target 
of  60  per  cent  in  the  tertiary  sector  and  have  65  per 
cent  participation.  That  too  is  free.  I  am  also  pleased 
to underscore that my country is well poised to achieve 
70 per cent of the 43 targets across the eight goals that 
are  considered  relevant  to  the  national  context.  That 
percentage consists of 42 per cent of targets that have 
already been met and 28 per cent that are likely to be 
met  by  2015.  So  we  say  that  with  good  success,  and 
lessons learned, we know what we still have to work on.
I now turn to a short discussion of the Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM). Trinidad and Tobago, as part 
of  the  CARICOM  region  and  the  global  community, 
welcomes  the  outcomes  of  the  various  milestones  in 
the process we have achieved to date. As a member of 
CARICOM, we have been an active participant in the 
Open Working Group on the Sustainable Development 
Goals. We have therefore been witness to the sweeping 
and unprecedented global participation and interest in 
that  process  and  its  outcome.  As  a  collective  effort, 
the  crafting  of  the  sustainable  development  goals 
undoubtedly captured a spirit of openness, inclusiveness 
and partnership, all of which underpin this new phase 
of  policy  design  and  implementation.  Along  with  the 
report of the Intergovernmental Committee of Experts 
on Sustainable Development Financing (A/69/315), the 
17 goals adopted in July form a solid foundation.
It is my respectful view that in delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda we must and should prioritize key issues for this 
session of the General Assembly. I have identified four 
such priorities. The first, I believe, is for us to renew 
our commitment to achieving the MDGs. Even in the 
one  year  we  have  left,  with  more  dedicated  effort  we 
can make further advances on our original objectives. 
As  the  MDG  Gap  Task  Force  Report,  2014:  The  State 
of  the  Global  Partnership  for  Development  highlights, 
although  progress  has  been  made  in  some  areas,  the 
gains must be accelerated and in some areas a renewed 
effort is needed to close the glaring gaps that still exist. 
Some  of  those  gaps  are  in  important  areas  such  as 
access  to  affordable  essential  medicines,  and  in  long-
term  debt  sustainability,  particularly  for  small  States, 
which is an essential element of the global partnership 
for sustainable development. Implementation will be a 
key measure of our commitment to the aspirations for 
the post-2015 development agenda.
The  second  priority  is  operationalizing  “The 
future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex).  In  the 
Rio+20  Conference  in  2012,  we  agreed  on  many  of 
the foundation elements for the post-2015 development 
agenda.  Coming  out  of  that,  we  now  have  several 
key  documents  to  further  inform  and  guide  us  on 
the way forward. We have, for example, the report of 
10/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
the  Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  on  Global 
Sustainability (A/66/700); the sustainable development 
goals; the report of the Intergovernmental Committee 
of Experts on Sustainable Development Financing; the 
outcomes of the structured dialogues on a technology 
facilitation  mechanism  (see  resolution  68/310),  and 
the  10-year  framework  of  programmes  on  sustainable 
consumption and production.
“The  future  we  want”  also  outlines  some  key 
emerging challenges that we need to urgently address in 
the context of the post-2015 development agenda. Some 
of  those  issues,  as  the  Assembly  will  recall,  include 
non-communicable  diseases,  the  increasing  urgency 
to  address  climate  change,  and  the  imperative  of 
addressing the needs of marginalized groups, including 
women,  youth,  children  and  persons  living  with 
disabilities. Those are the building blocks of the future 
we want to form the basis of the post-2015 development 
agenda.  Together  with  the  institutional  support  of  the 
high-level political forum on sustainable development, 
the  reformed  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
United  Nations  Environmental  Assembly,  we  have  a 
solid  foundation  for  fashioning  a  global  partnership 
in  support  of  poverty  eradication  through  sustainable 
development.
We 
to 
look  forward 
the  Secretary-General’s 
synthesized  report,  which  should  place  all  of  those 
elements in the context of a fully integrated post-2015 
development agenda and give due consideration to the 
needs of countries in special situations, including small 
island  developing  States,  least  developed  countries, 
landlocked  developing  countries  and  Africa.  As  a 
specialized  conference  mandated 
in  “The  future 
we  want”,  the  outcome  document  (A/CONF.223/3, 
annex)  of  the  recently  concluded  Third  International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States  —  the 
Small Island Developing States Accelerated Modalities 
of Action — should also be appropriately addressed in 
the upcoming Secretary-General’s report.
The third priority is for us to revitalize the global 
partnership in support of sustainable development. The 
8  August  2014  draft  report  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing  has  highlighted 
that  current  financing 
and  investment  patterns  will  not  deliver  sustainable 
development. In fact, it goes on to say that
“[w]hile  design  and  implementation  of  policies 
will be on the national level, achieving sustainable 
development will require international support and 
cooperation”.
Those are the core prerequisites for a global partnership 
in  support  of  sustainable  development.  However,  in 
order  make  such  a  partnership  meaningful,  it  is  my 
respectful view that it must also include the following 
four particular elements.
First,  it  must  include  reform  in  the  international 
financial  institutions,  targeting  on  systemic  failures 
and  focusing  on  building  resilience  that  can  sustain 
growth in open and vulnerable economies.
Secondly, it must include the successful completion 
of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations,  which  will 
ensure  that  the  rules  of  trade  and  commerce  do  not 
continue  to  operate  so  as  to  slow,  impede  or  negate 
development  gains  and  aspirations  in  our  very  small 
and  vulnerable  economies.  I  note  that  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
is  scheduled  to  take  place  in  July  2015.  That  will  be 
critically  important  to  ensuring  that  a  meaningful 
and  effective  global  partnership  for  development  will 
become  a  reality  for  the  implementation  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
Thirdly,  on  the  point  of  a  revitalized  global 
partnership  in  support  of  sustainable  development,  I 
wish to strongly reiterate the support of Trinidad and 
Tobago  for  an  end  to  the  economic  embargo  against 
Cuba.  The  perpetuation  of  those  measures  against 
a  developing  country  undermines  our  collective 
aspirations  for  a  post-2015  development  agenda  in 
which no one should be left behind.
Fourthly,  our  priority  should  be  for  us  to  address 
the  mitigation  gap  for  achieving  the  target  of  below 
2  or  1.5˚C  target  for  limiting  the  increase  in  global 
greenhouse gas emissions and achieving an ambitious, 
legally  binding  agreement  on  climate  change  in  2015 
to  be  applied  from  2020.  That  agreement  should  set 
the  world  on  track  to  achieving  carbon  neutrality  by 
2070,  and  by  so  doing  ensure  that  the  global  climate 
will support the sustainable development of present as 
well as future generations.
Our  collective  action  on  climate  change  should 
take  into  account  the  survival  of  the  most  vulnerable 
States in particular, such as our small island developing 
States, as the front line of increasingly severe impacts 
of climate change. It should also be firmly rooted in the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, 
14-55113
11/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
recognizing  that  developing  countries’  finance  needs 
for mitigation and adaptation to climate change cannot 
be met exclusively from domestic resources, given the 
competing  demands  on  public  finance.  I  believe  that 
every  Head  of  Government  and  every  Head  of  State 
would recognize those competing interests in their own 
nation States.
It  is  therefore  essential  to  put  the  Green  Climate 
Fund into force early. It is my hope that the partnerships 
and announcements made at the United Nations Climate 
Summit 2014 on Tuesday, 23 September, will serve to 
catalyse more ambitious action on climate change in the 
near as well as in the long-term and build the momentum 
necessary for a successful Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, to be held in Lima in December and in Paris 
in 2015.
Those  are  the  elements  of  the  global  framework, 
which should occupy our full attention and commitment 
over the course of the sixty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly. Those elements will be supported by critical 
enabling  actions  at  the  regional  and  national  levels. 
For us in the context of the Caribbean Community, we 
have been doing our part as a subregion of small island 
and  low-lying  developing  States  to  foster  regional 
integration  in  support  of  the  sustainable  development 
of  all  of  our  peoples.  CARICOM  Heads  of  State  and 
Government have agreed on the vision of
“a Caribbean community that is integrated, inclusive 
and  resilient;  driven  by  knowledge,  excellence, 
innovation  and  productivity;  a  community  where 
every  citizen  is  secure  and  has  the  opportunity 
to  realize  his  or  her  potential  with  guaranteed 
human  rights  and  social  justice;  and  contributes 
to and shares in, its economic, social and cultural 
prosperity.  A  community  which  can  be  a  unified 
and competitive force in the global arena”.
That vision is the collective ambition of the States 
members  of  CARICOM,  agreed  in  the  context  of  a 
strategic  framework  plan  for  period  2015-2019.  That 
plan  will  come  through  the  implementation  of  six 
integrated  strategic  priorities,  which  include  building 
economic,  social,  environmental  and  technological 
resilience  through  a  coordinated  foreign  policy  and 
research and development innovation.
In  support  of  the  implementation  of  those  six 
priorities, CARICOM Heads of State and Government 
have  called  for  a  post-2015  development  agenda  that 
will  work  in  tandem  with  what  we  are  discussing  at 
the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
needs to focus on the eradication of poverty as a central 
pillar,  the  adoption  of  a  people-centred  approach 
through  an  intergovernmentally  agreed  agenda,  and 
an  agenda  that  incorporates  broader  measures  and 
appropriate  approaches  and  criteria  to  complement 
the  gross  domestic  product  per  capita  as  a  measure 
of  development.  Importantly,  those  broader  measures 
must foster an enabling global policy environment that 
is more conducive to the achievement of development 
objectives and affords greater policy coherence across 
institutions,  including  those  in  the  areas  of  trade, 
finance, environment and development.
Those regional initiatives in support of advancing 
the sustainable development of the people of CARICOM 
are  being  designed  and  implemented  in  the  context 
of  a  broader  strategy  for  mitigating  the  vulnerability 
inherent  in  countries  as  small  and  open  as  ours,  In 
the  context  of  a  limited  and  narrow  resource  base, 
the  focus  is  on  nurturing  and  developing  our  human 
resources  through  an  emphasis  on  innovation  and 
entrepreneurship. It is an approach that focuses on the 
full realization of the human rights to development and 
a life of dignity.
Consistent  with  this  approach,  I  turn  to  another 
matter close to our hearts in the region as we continue 
to  advance  the  global  cause  of  truth,  justice  and 
reconciliation, within the context of reparatory justice 
for the victims and the descendants of the trans-Atlantic 
slave trade. As a region we are determined to engage 
in  reparatory  dialogue  with  the  former  slave-owning 
European nations in order to address the living legacies 
of these crimes. This is a critically vital element of the 
socioeconomic development aspirations of the region as 
the victims of these crimes and their descendants were 
left  in  a  state  of  social,  psychological,  economic  and 
cultural  deprivation.  In  addition,  they  have  been  left 
in a state of disenfranchisement that has ensured their 
suffering and debilitation to this day, and from which 
only reparatory action can alleviate their suffering.
I  hold  that  sustainable  development  cannot  be 
achieved  in  an  environment  where  people  are  denied 
their  basic  rights  to  live  free  from  fear,  with  daily 
deprivation of the necessities of life due to the ravages 
of  war  and  other  types  of  instability.  It  is  for  these 
reasons that Trinidad and Tobago is concerned by the 
developments in Ukraine and other parts of the globe, 
which  have  caused  pain  and  suffering  to  hundreds  of 
12/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
innocent  victims.  They  too  must  be  allowed  to  live 
freely.
At  the  same  time,  we  note  with  grave  concern 
the  continued  failure  to  find  a  lasting  solution  to  the 
decades-old  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  which  has  caused 
tremendous loss of life and destruction of property in 
the Gaza Strip, and has left emotional and psychological 
scars  on  those  almost  2,000  families  who  lost  loved 
ones.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  committed  to  the 
negotiation  of  the  two-State  solution  as  the  preferred 
means to bring lasting peace to the region so that the 
people of Palestine, so long denied their rightful place in 
the international community, can live in larger freedom 
with their Israeli brothers and sisters. To that end, we 
call  for  the  implementation  of  all  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions geared towards the resolution of the 
conflict and the lifting of the illegal embargo imposed 
on the Palestinian people since 2005.
Likewise,  as  co-sponsors  of  Security  Council 
resolution  2178  (2014),  on  threats  to  international 
peace  and  security  caused  by  terrorists  acts,  adopted 
at  Wednesday’s  summit,  we  remain  optimistic  that 
the  resolution  may  serve  as  a  catalyst  for  greater 
international cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
We in Trinidad and Tobago have been the victim of 
terrorists  in  1990,  when  there  was  an  attempted  coup 
against the newly elected Government by terrorists and 
extremists. Members will agree that this new terrorist 
phenomenon could be dubbed a terrorism “virus” as it is 
spreading throughout the global family. The Assembly 
will  agree  that  terrorism  has  been  undermining,  and 
continues  to  undermine,  the  sovereignty,  territorial 
integrity and peace and security of the peoples of the 
Middle East and further afield.
Members of the Assembly will also recall that, in 
my inaugural address to this body in September 2010 
(see  A/65/PV.20),  I  indicated  that  the  time  was  right 
for the adoption of a treaty to regulate the international 
trade in conventional arms. That has now come to be 
history  with  the  adoption  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty 
(ATT);  after  yesterday’s  High-level  Treaty  Event,  it 
now  has  the  requisite  number  of  States  parties  for  its 
entry into force, which is likely to be on 25 December 
of this year. We are very happy about that.
The entry into force of the ATT will require States 
parties  to  make  important  decisions  to  implement 
the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  at  the  First  Conference 
of  States  Parties,  which  is  likely  to  be  convened  by 
mid-2015.  One  of  these  decisions  is  on  the  location 
of  the  ATT  secretariat.  Over  a  year  ago,  my  country 
announced its candidature to have the ATT secretariat 
located  in  Port  of  Spain.  That  bid  has  been  endorsed 
by all 14 CARICOM States and has so far received the 
support from a number of States from diverse regions. 
The hosting of this important body in a region which 
is  disproportionately  affected  by  the  illicit  trade  in 
small arms and light weapons and its association with 
other trans-boundary crimes, such as drug trafficking, 
would be a significant development. It will assist in the 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Treaty,  and 
contribute  to  the  reduction,  if  not  the  elimination,  of 
illegal weapons in the hands of criminals whose actions 
continue to threaten the sustainable development of our 
region.
The  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
is 
committed  to  providing  the  necessary  resources  to 
host  the  secretariat,  and  this  has  been  transmitted  to 
all  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  I  call  once  more 
on all those States which have not yet announced their 
support for our candidature to do so and to ensure that 
the principle of equitable geographic distribution in the 
location of major global bodies is observed. No country 
or region, in my respectful view, must continue to have 
a monopoly in hosting important institutions which are 
established for the benefit of all.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  satisfied  that,  among  the 
17  sustainable  development  goals  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  on  10  September,  goal  3  ensures 
healthy  lives  and  promotes  well-being  for  all  ages. 
The  health  and  well-being  of  our  people  are  critical 
to  ensuring  productive  lifestyles  which  are  critical 
to  sustainable  economic  development,  growth  and 
achieving  a  transformative  past-2015  development 
agenda. Health and well-being are one of the 10 thematic 
areas of development identified by the Government of 
Trinidad and Tobago.
It  will  be  recalled  that  CARICOM,  of  which  we 
are  a  member,  was  largely  responsible  for  calling 
the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  need 
to  adopt  a  resolution  to  focus  attention  of  the  effects 
of  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  as  a  major 
contributor  to  human  mortality.  Nevertheless,  while 
we continue to make strides in tackling the incidence 
of NCDs, we are cognizant of the need to combat the 
spread of infectious diseases within our region and in 
different regions, which threaten the survival of people 
in many nations.
14-55113
13/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Security  Council  resolution  2177  (2014),  which 
was  co-sponsored  by  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  garnered 
unanimous  support,  including  that  of  the  Secretary-
General,  for  dealing  with 
the  Ebola  virus.  We 
congratulate the Secretary-General. Members pledged 
to take action at the global and regional levels to combat 
the spread of Ebola to supplement the United Nations 
Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response.  Trinidad 
and Tobago remains committed to playing our part in 
eradicating infectious diseases undermining the health 
and well-being of our people.
It  is  for  this  reason  that,  prior  to  the  adoption  of 
resolution 2177 (2014), on Ebola, as Prime Minister of 
Trinidad and Tobago I wrote to the Secretary-General 
of  CARICOM  requesting  that  a  meeting  of  States 
members of the Community be convened to discuss and 
agree  on  sustainable  policy  responses  at  the  national 
and  regional  levels  alike  concerning  public  health 
issues, including Chikungunya and the Ebola virus.
Finally, the Assembly can rest assured of the support 
of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago in assisting 
the United Nations family in shaping a transformative 
post-2015 development agenda. Our support will come 
not only through our representation in the various organs 
of this global institution but also by continuing to adopt 
policies  at  the  national  level  geared  towards  putting 
people  at  the  centre  of  all  developmental  objectives. 
I  say  once  again:  any  development  agenda  which 
alienates people or places them at the periphery and not 
the centre will not bring sustainable development and 
will be doomed to failure. Such failure stands against 
the commitment we have all made and the purposes we 
are serving at the Assembly. Our work is cut out — for 
all of us, together in global partnership, to achieve the 
goals that we have set ourselves.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for the statement she 
has just made.
Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Elmar Maharram oglu Mammadyarov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Mr.  Mammadyarov  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset, 
I would like to congratulate my good friend Mr. Sam 
Azerbaijan  reaffirms 
to 
Kutesa  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I wish him 
every success in fulfilling that highly responsible duty. 
We are also grateful to Mr. John Ashe for all his hard 
work in presiding over the sixty-eighth session.
its  commitment 
the 
implementation of the global sustainable development 
agenda and to reaching an agreement on the post-2015 
development agenda. My country’s record in attaining 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  truly  unique. 
Over  the  past  10  years,  the  gross  domestic  product 
of  Azerbaijan  has  increased  by  3.4  times.  Now  the 
economy of Azerbaijan accounts for more than 80 per 
cent of that of the South Caucasus.
The  unrivalled  high  rate  of  economic  growth  has 
been  achieved  thanks  to  the  prudent  use  of  available 
resources and the rapid transition to a socially oriented 
market  economy.  The  poverty  rate  was  reduced  from 
49  per  cent  in  2004  to  5.3  per  cent  in  2014.  Over  the 
same  period,  the  unemployment  rate  has  decreased 
from  10.6  per  cent  to  5  per  cent.  The  Government 
has  been  implementing  large-scale  programmes  on 
improving good governance, strengthening the rule of 
law,  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and  providing 
facilitated access to public services. Such programmes 
also  cover  inclusive  and  equitable  education,  gender 
equality, the empowerment of women, better access to 
affordable energy and the protection of the environment.
The  rapid  development  at  the  national  level  has 
enabled Azerbaijan to embark on a new road of official 
development  assistance  as  an  emerging  donor.  Over 
the  past  years,  Azerbaijan  has  continued  to  respond 
to  the  humanitarian  and  socioeconomic  challenges 
faced by developing countries through the Azerbaijan 
International Development Agency and other channels. 
The  commitment  to  contributing  to  international 
development  is  widely  shared  with  our  people.  The 
leading non-governmental organization in Azerbaijan, 
the  Heydar  Aliyev  Foundation,  has 
implemented 
numerous  social,  humanitarian  and  development 
projects in a number of countries.
Azerbaijan  has  established  itself  as  a  reliable 
supplier of energy in the global market. Just recently, 
a groundbreaking ceremony to launch the southern gas 
corridor was held in Azerbaijan. That $50 billion project, 
which  envisages  the  construction  of  pipeline  systems 
such  as  the  trans-Anatolian  and  the  trans-Adriatic 
pipelines,  will  enable  Europe  to  obtain  gas  supplies 
14/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
from  a  completely  new  resource  base  in  Azerbaijan. 
The  Trans-Eurasian 
Information  Superhighway 
project,  which  was  initiated  by  Azerbaijan,  will 
provide  the  countries  of  the  region  with  information 
technology services, thereby facilitating access to the 
Internet,  telecommunications  systems  and  electronic 
information resources for 20 countries throughout the 
region.  Acknowledging  the  value  of  transport  as  an 
important  mechanism  for  sustainable  development, 
Azerbaijan has successfully launched several regional 
infrastructure projects. The Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railway 
is an important link that connects Europe and Asia.
Against the background of the various threats and 
challenges  facing  the  world  nowadays,  it  is  critical 
to  persistently  stress  the  importance  of  promoting 
key  values  of  different  cultures,  enhancing  better 
understanding  among  diverse  communities  and 
encouraging  mutual  respect.  Located  between  the 
two  great  continents  of  Asia  and  Europe,  Azerbaijan 
is  a  unique  place,  where  the  East  and  the  West  meet, 
where the world’s main religions peacefully coexist and 
where  the  values  and  traditions  of  different  cultures 
harmoniously  complement  each  other.  It  is  not  a 
coincidence that in recent years, Azerbaijan has hosted 
numerous  international  events  aimed  at  promoting 
the  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  enhancing 
understanding  among  different  religions,  faiths  and 
cultures.
fragility 
remain 
Violence  and 
the  greatest 
obstacles  to  development.  The  world  community  still 
faces  serious  breaches  of  the  fundamental  norms  and 
principles  of  international  law.  Peoples  throughout 
the  world  continue  to  suffer  from  devastating  wars, 
aggression,  military  occupation  and  ethnic  cleansing. 
For  more  than  20  years,  Armenia  has  used  force 
against  the  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  of 
Azerbaijan. It has occupied approximately 20 per cent 
of  the  territories  of  Azerbaijan  and  conducted  ethnic 
cleansing  against  almost  1  million  Azerbaijanis,  as  a 
result of which no single Azerbaijani is left in Armenia 
or in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. No single 
Azerbaijani  historical  or  cultural  monument  has 
escaped  destruction  in  the  occupied  territories  or  in 
Armenia.
In  1993, 
the  Security  Council  adopted  four 
resolutions that reaffirm the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  Azerbaijan  and  the  inadmissibility  of  the 
use of force for the acquisition of territory. Resolutions 
822  (1993),  853  (1993),  874  (1993)  and  884  (1993) 
demand  the  immediate,  complete  and  unconditional 
withdrawal of the Armenian occupying forces from all 
occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan.  Furthermore,  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  numerous 
other regional organizations adopted various decisions 
in  support  of  the  sovereignty,  political  independence 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan  and  demanded 
the  settlement  of  the  conflict  on  the  basis  of  those 
principles.
Unfortunately,  Armenia  disregards  all  of  those 
resolutions  and  the  generally  accepted  norms  and 
principles  of  international  law  and  continues  its 
military  occupation  of  Azerbaijani  lands.  Armenia 
regularly  violates 
the  ceasefire  and  deliberately 
attacks  Azerbaijani  civilians,  which  results  in  the 
killing  and  wounding  of  inhabitants  residing  near  the 
front  line.  Just  recently,  several  Azerbaijani  civilians 
who  were  visiting  the  tombs  of  their  relatives  in  the 
occupied  territories  were  taken  hostage  and  tortured. 
Some  of  them  were  even  killed  by  Armenian  forces. 
It is therefore critical that the international community 
play a more proactive role in ending impunity for the 
crimes  committed  against  the  civilian  population  of 
Azerbaijan. Combating impunity is important in order 
to ensure sustainable peace and reconciliation.
Two days ago, the President of Armenia delivered 
a  statement  here  during  the  general  debate  and  tried 
to  mislead  the  General  Assembly  by  distorting  the 
facts  and  the  situation  with  regard  to  the  peace 
process,  misinterpreting  the  norms  and  principles  of 
international law and the relevant documents adopted 
within that framework (see A/69/PV.6). The President 
of  Armenia  misuses  the  noble  principle  of  self-
determination  to  cover  up  his  country’s  attempts  to 
annex territories of the neighbouring State, Azerbaijan, 
through the use of force. The situation, which he tries 
to present as the self-determination of the Armenians 
living in Azerbaijan, has nothing in common with the 
principle of self-determination contained in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Helsinki  Final  Act.  In 
fact,  the  principle  of  self-determination  requires  the 
return  of  the  displaced  Azerbaijanis  to  the  Nagorny 
Karabakh region, where they will live together with the 
Armenian community in peace, dignity and prosperity 
within Azerbaijan. We believe in achieving that goal by 
political means.
Azerbaijan stands for a negotiated settlement of the 
conflict without prejudice to its rights under the Charter 
14-55113
15/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  those  set  forth  in 
Article  51.  The  Government  of  Armenia  must  realize 
that the military occupation of the territory of another 
State does not represent a solution and that its reliance 
on the status quo is a grave miscalculation. Azerbaijan 
will  never  allow  its  territorial  integrity,  or  the  rights 
and freedoms of its citizens that have been violated as a 
result of aggression, to be compromised.
The  international  community’s  unequivocal  and 
consistent  support  for  the  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty  of  Azerbaijan  has  been  a  crucial  factor. 
It makes clear to Armenia that the current status quo, 
which was achieved as a result of aggression, will never 
be accepted. I would like to thank Member States for 
upholding  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  by  supporting  the  territorial  integrity 
of Azerbaijan. The international community does not, 
and will not, accept attempts to change internationally 
recognized borders through the use of force. Nor should 
the world accept double standards. To do so would take 
us  back  to  the  dark  chapters  of  the  past  century.  In 
that  regard,  the  time  is  ripe  to  bring  to  justice  those 
in Armenia who perpetrated acts of aggression against 
Azerbaijan and crimes against humanity and to impose 
sanctions on them.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Erlan Idrissov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Idrissov  (Kazakhstan):  On  behalf  of  the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, I would first like to congratulate 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We 
offer  him  our  best  wishes  and  full  support.  We  also 
extend our special gratitude to Mr. John Ashe for his 
able  leadership  of  the  Assembly  and  his  commitment 
to finding solutions to pressing international problems.
The  world  today  is  undergoing  a  major  upheaval. 
The global instability we face is a crisis of the global 
economy, of international law and, in a broader sense, 
of a lack of vision for our world’s future. To our deep 
regret,  it  seems  that  not  all  States  yet  recognize  their 
full responsibility for the fate of their neighbourhoods 
and  the  world  as  a  whole.  Instead  of  well-thought-
out,  viable  solutions,  we  are  witnessing  a  disturbing 
escalation of problems, drawing in more countries and 
making  our  shared  hopes  of  peace  and  stability  ever 
more distant.
Rivalry  among  the  major  Powers  over  perceived 
spheres  of 
influence,  markets  and  control  over 
the  production  and  transit  of  energy  resources  has 
increased. Tensions are on the rise, and the dangerous 
and unacceptable belief in the right of power in world 
politics has strengthened. As a result, we are witnessing 
a  renewed  arms  race  and  the  use  of  military  force  to 
impose  and  extend  influence.  Unilateral  actions  and 
double  standards  are  destabilizing  the  international 
situation,  exacerbating 
inciting  ethnic 
and  religious  strife  and  threatening  the  security  of 
other  States.  In  today’s  confusing  media  space,  it  is 
impossible to distinguish lies from truth. This dire state 
of global affairs, rising tensions and mistrust between 
States is undermining the efforts of the United Nations 
and  entire  international  community  to  bring  about  a 
peaceful  solution  to  any  crisis  by  lawful  means.  It  is 
also deeply worrying to see the established architecture 
of international law being dangerously eroded.
tensions, 
is 
forces  are 
What 
is  even  more  perilous 
that  radical 
movements  and  extremist 
skilfully 
exploiting  the  resulting  uncertainty  and  instability  in 
the international system. We are particularly concerned 
about  the  continuing  violence  in  the  Middle  East  and 
Africa  and  the  growing  threats  posed  to  some  Asian 
countries.  We  extend  our  deepest  condolences  to  the 
citizens  and  Governments  whose  civilians  have  been 
senselessly killed during the violence.
The  situation  in  Ukraine  is  of  special  concern  to 
Kazakhstan. The impact of the crisis now extends not 
just  beyond  the  borders  of  Ukraine,  but  beyond  the 
entire region. Kazakhstan supports peaceful initiatives 
aimed  at  the  speedy  de-escalation  of  the  conflict, 
including  the  Minsk  peace  agreements.  The  ceasefire 
must be used to implement the peace plans of President 
Poroshenko  and  President  Putin.  These  give  hope  for 
the  eventual  stabilization  of  the  situation  in  Ukraine. 
We should also be concerned that the crisis in Ukraine 
has led to mutual sanctions being imposed by countries 
that together make up 60 per cent of the world’s gross 
domestic product. That will certainly have a damaging 
effect on global development and economic growth.
Now  more  than  ever,  the  world  needs  to  come 
together  to  find  an  alternative  model  to  solving 
problems, based on equal partnership, broad dialogue, 
mutual respect and tolerance among all stakeholders. We 
are confident that the Charter of the United Nations and 
the fundamental principles of international law provide 
the basis for this model. The role of the United Nations 
16/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
must remain pivotal and primary, while bringing States 
together and providing global leadership based on the 
equal participation of all Member States in the process.
The dynamics of our world today and the forecasts 
of what the future might hold must prompt world leaders 
to look beyond narrow national interests and to exercise 
the highest degree of judgement and political will. What 
is at stake is nothing less than saving our civilization 
from  destruction.  This  is  not  an  exaggeration  or 
overstatement. It is the harsh and threatening reality.
We are seeing a fundamental change in the structure 
of  geopolitical,  geo-economic  and 
transnational 
relations.  What  is  emerging  is  a  polycentric  system 
of  international  transactions.  Within  that  framework, 
nobody has the right to determine global and regional 
processes  unilaterally.  No  country  has  exceptional 
rights  or  advantages.  To  help  adjust  to  this  emerging 
new  multipolar  world  order  and  promote  the  widest 
possible  involvement  in  identifying  the  way  forward, 
in  2012  the  President  of  Kazakhstan  proposed  the 
G-Global  initiative.  It  seeks  solutions  based  on  five 
principles, namely, a strong preference for evolutionary 
rather  than  revolutionary  policy  change;  the  crucial 
importance  of  justice,  equality  and  consensus;  the 
promotion  of  global  tolerance  and  trust;  the  need  for 
global  transparency;  and,  finally,  the  encouragement 
of  constructive  multilateralism.  Unfortunately,  the 
decisions  taken  in  the  wake  of  the  global  financial 
crisis by the Group of Twenty and the Group of Eight 
have  proved  to  be  insufficient  because  they  were  not 
all-inclusive in their elaboration.
Kazakhstan  therefore  encourages  Member  States 
to use the G-Global platform for dialogue to help draw 
up plans — developed by all and acceptable to all — to 
prevent future global crises. We have already embarked 
on that process through the Astana Economic Forum, 
which resulted in a draft anti-crisis plan offered to the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the  plan  should  be 
taken  up  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic 
and Social Council and given serious consideration.
At the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly 
in 1992, President Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan initiated 
the  convening  of  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and 
Confidence-Building  Measures  in  Asia  (CICA).  Like 
the  G-Global  initiative,  CICA  emerged  from  the  firm 
belief  that  international  progress  could  come  about 
only through strong and effective partnerships, built in 
the spirit of solidarity among all countries, regardless 
of their political and economic development. CICA has 
become an effective multinational forum for enhancing 
cooperation and promoting peace, security and stability 
in Asia. Kazakhstan supports the initiative of China, the 
country that chairs CICA currently, for a new security 
concept  for  Asia  based  on  the  principle  of  common, 
comprehensive,  cooperative  and  sustainable  regional 
security. That will enable us to consolidate CICA in the 
near future and transform it into the Organization for 
Security and Development in Asia.
Two  weeks  ago,  the  General  Assembly  held  an 
informal meeting to mark the International Day against 
Nuclear  Tests.  We  are  pleased  that  all  those  present 
expressed  their  determination  to  bring  about  a  world 
without nuclear-weapon testing and, ultimately, without 
nuclear  weapons.  That  is  an  issue  close  to  the  hearts 
of the people of Kazakhstan, who have witnessed and 
continue  to  live  with  the  terrible  legacy  of  nuclear 
testing. That is why we proposed 29 August as the day 
to  raise  awareness  of  this  important  issue,  and  why 
President Nazarbayev has launched the Abolish Testing: 
Our  Mission  Project,  a  global  education  campaign  on 
the perils of nuclear testing.
The  closure  of  the  Semipalatinsk  Nuclear  Test 
Site and the renunciation of the world’s fourth-largest 
nuclear arsenal — both inherited from the Soviet Union 
upon  our  independence  —  were  defining  moments 
for our nation, and the starting point for the peaceful 
foreign  policy  we  pursue  today.  Strengthening  the 
global  non-proliferation  regime  has  remained  one  of 
the  most  important  priorities  of  Kazakhstan’s  foreign 
policy.  The  signing  in  May  of  the  Protocol  to  the 
Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central 
Asia  —  the  Semipalatinsk  Treaty  —  by  the  five 
permanent  countries  on  the  Security  Council  marked 
a  major  moment  for  nuclear  security  in  our  region. 
We now urge the “nuclear five” countries to ratify the 
Protocol  as  soon  as  possible.  We  strongly  encourage 
all stakeholders to uphold the provisions of Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the 
cornerstone of the non-proliferation regime, and to work 
towards the early entry into force of the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
We share the objectives of the proposed convention 
on  the  general  and  complete  prohibition  of  nuclear 
weapons. Again, we call on all Member States to adopt 
the  universal  declaration  on  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world.  That  would  serve  as  the  first  step  towards  the 
adoption of the convention.
14-55113
17/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Reaffirming  our  commitment  to  the  principle 
of  the  equal  right  of  all  countries  to  access  nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  Kazakhstan  stands 
ready  to  host  the  international  bank  of  low-enriched 
uranium  under  the  auspices  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  We  also  support  an 
early  political  and  diplomatic  solution  with  respect 
to  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  on  the  basis  of  strict 
compliance with the provisions of the NPT and IAEA 
regulations.  Kazakhstan  helped  break  the  deadlock 
in  the  negotiations  by  hosting  the  first  two  rounds  of 
resumed  talks  in  Almaty  last  year.  We  welcome  the 
latest 5+1 talks and strongly hope an agreement can be 
reached in November.
We, 
to 
fight 
the  entire 
together  with 
international 
community,  are  alarmed  that  terrorist  groups  are 
creating  quasi-State  entities 
legitimate 
Governments  and  sow  enmity  and  hatred.  Religious 
extremism  and  separatism  are  fuelling  a  rise  in 
terrorism, transnational crime and the illegal trafficking 
of  narcotics.  Kazakhstan  was  a  sponsor  of  resolution 
2178  (2014),  on  foreign  terrorist  fighters,  because  we 
believe  that  the  fight  against  international  terrorism 
demands a long-term comprehensive approach.
We  also  strongly  believe  that  interreligious  and 
interethnic  harmony  are  essential  prerequisites  for 
peace and security. Kazakhstan, a diverse nation of 130 
ethnic  groups  and  many  different  faiths,  has  worked 
hard to build a culture of tolerance and respect. We have 
sought to promote those values internationally through 
the  Congress  of  Leaders  of  World  and  Traditional 
Religions,  an  event  that  has  taken  place  every  three 
years  since  2003.  The  Congress  and  its  participants 
have unanimously renounced violence and pledged their 
support  for  continued  interreligious  dialogue  among 
leaders  of  Islam,  Christianity,  Judaism,  Buddhism, 
Hinduism, Taoism and many other faiths. Just last week, 
a  preparatory  meeting  of  religious  representatives  for 
the fifth Congress, to be held in Astana in 2015, issued 
a  statement  condemning  extremism,  violence  and 
terrorism conducted in the name of any religion.
Kazakhstan initiated the suggestion that the period 
2013-2022  be  proclaimed  as  the  International  Decade 
for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures.  Greater  dialogue 
and  the  exchange  of  ideas  between  different  cultures 
greatly enhance international security.
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  in  the  wake  of  the 
recent  elections  and  the  ongoing  withdrawal  of  the 
coalition forces is a matter of importance for the wider 
security  of  Central  Asia.  We  congratulate  President-
elect  Ashraf  Ghani  Ahmadzai  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan on the completion of the electoral process. 
We look forward to close cooperation with Mr. Ghani 
and Abdullah Abdullah as they form, and work together 
in, the National Unity Government.
Economic  development  is  key  to  Afghanistan’s 
re-emergence as a peaceful and prosperous nation and 
good  neighbour  in  Central  Asia.  Kazakhstan  fully 
supports  Afghanistan’s  integration  into  the  region’s 
expanding network of trade, energy and transportation 
links.  We  have  taken  practical  steps  to  assist  in  the 
rehabilitation  of  our  neighbour.  The  Government  of 
Kazakhstan  has  allocated  almost  $3  million  for  the 
construction of social infrastructure and has provided 
more than $17 million in humanitarian food assistance. 
We  are  spending  $50  million  to  train  approximately 
1,000 Afghan students in Kazakhstan universities. The 
first civilian students will soon successfully complete 
their  education  in  Kazakhstan  and  join  the  peaceful 
reconstruction process in their home country.
It  is  clear  that  we  in  Central  Asia  face  a  number 
of  challenges  that  endanger  stability  not  only  in 
specific  countries  but  in  the  entire  region.  There 
is  regrettably  little  sign  that  those  problems  will 
disappear  in  the  near  future.  That  is  why  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  need  to 
work more purposefully in Central Asia. Accordingly, 
Kazakhstan’s  call  for  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  regional  hub  in  the  city  of  Almaty  is  highly 
relevant.  The  United  Nations  plays  an  invaluable  role 
in  addressing  natural  and  man-made  disasters  and 
assisting  countries  in  their  sustainable  development 
through  the  coordination  of  the  activities  of  national, 
regional and international actors. We believe that, with 
the focus on humanitarian assistance and development, 
the  regional  United  Nations  hub  in  Almaty  would 
complement  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Regional 
Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy  for  Central  Asia  in 
Ashgabat,  Turkmenistan.  The  presence  of  those  two 
regional  United  Nations  entities  would  cover  a  very 
broad  range  of  challenges  faced  by  countries  in  our 
vast  region,  including  Afghanistan.  Of  course,  the 
Government  of  Kazakhstan  stands  ready  to  offer  its 
full support in establishing and developing the hub.
Sustainable development is central to Kazakhstan’s 
ambitions  for  the  future.  We  commend  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  for  convening 
the  action-focused  Climate  Summit  a  few  days  ago. 
18/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
Within our borders, we are working hard to achieve our 
national plan to make the transition to a green economy 
and  have  recently  adopted  voluntary  commitments  to 
reducing  greenhouse  gas  emissions  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
A  national  system  for  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
trading  has  already  been  put  into  operation.  We  are 
also  determined  to  support  sustainable  development 
globally.
the 
In  2017,  Astana  will  host 
international 
specialized exhibition Expo 2017 on the theme “Future 
Energy”,  which  will  promote  best  practices  in  the 
field of sustainable energy. We will provide support to 
representatives  of  around  60  developing  countries  to 
take part in Expo 2017.
Kazakhstan, in conjunction with the Economic and 
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, is launching 
a project on the installation of biogas systems in nine 
small island developing States of the Pacific, which will 
help local communities produce electricity. At the same 
time, Kazakhstan and the United Nations Development 
Programme  are  developing  a  training  programme  in 
the sectors of oil and gas, agriculture and medicine for 
countries in Africa, Oceania and Latin America and the 
Caribbean.
As  the  largest  landlocked  country  in  the  world, 
Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the upcoming 
second  United  Nations  Conference  on  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries, 
in 
November.  The  meeting  aims  to  review  and  build  on 
the Almaty Programme of Action in order to produce a 
new road map for landlocked developing countries that 
takes into account the challenges and threats that have 
emerged  since  the  Almaty  plan  was  first  developed, 
over a decade ago.
to  be  held 
in  Vienna 
In  2015,  we  will  finish  construction  of  the 
Kazakhstan  section  of  the  Western  Europe-Western 
China International Transit Corridor, which offers the 
shortest route from China to Europe and reduces transit 
times  by  up  to  10  days,  making  it  four  to  five  times 
shorter than the sea route through the Suez Canal. By 
2020,  we  expect  the  volume  of  freight  traffic  on  the 
corridor  between  China,  Central  Asia,  Russia  and 
Europe to reach 33 million tons annually.
The construction of new rail routes is also bringing 
our  region  together  as  never  before.  This  December, 
we  plan  to  open  the  Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran-
Persian Gulf railroad, which will carry up to 10 million 
tons of cargo a year and allow us to increase our wheat 
exports  five-fold.  Another  rail  route,  Uzbekistan-
Turkmenistan-Iran-Oman-Qatar,  which  was 
first 
agreed in 2011, will also greatly increase international 
transit capacity for our region.
As the Assembly knows, Kazakhstan is a candidate 
for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for 
the  period  2017-2018.  Its  election  would  be  a  major 
step for our country, which has never before served on 
that  body.  Our  extensive  engagement  in  international 
affairs, including chairing key regional organizations, 
such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 
has given us the experience necessary to discharge that 
important responsibility. We believe that the priorities 
and challenges of our region should be represented in 
the Security Council, and Kazakhstan is ready to play 
that role.
We  are  a  peaceful,  stable  and  fast-developing 
country, with a reputation for impartiality and for taking 
an  effective,  balanced  approach,  with  a  strong  focus 
on  international  cooperation,  conflict  prevention  and 
mediation. Overall, we are confident that we can fully 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace, 
security and development, as well as the improvement 
of the Council’s working methods.
Only  by  working  together,  in  a  partnership  in 
which  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are 
truly  equal,  regardless  of  their  level  of  political  and 
economic development or geographic location, can we 
achieve peace and security for all — a peace that is free 
from fear and violence and meets the needs of future 
generations.
Mr.  Kogda  (Burkina  Faso),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
I  would  like  to  end  by  quoting  Nelson  Mandela, 
who said:
“People respond in accordance to how you relate to 
them. If we approach them on the basis of violence, 
that’s  how  they’ll  react.  But  if  you  say  we  want 
peace,  we  want  stability,  we  can  then  do  a  lot  of 
things that will contribute towards the progress of 
our society”.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Abdulaziz Kamilov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
14-55113
19/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Mr.  Kamilov  (Uzbekistan):  Today  I  would  like 
to  address  some  of  the  most  important  issues  on  the 
General Assembly’s agenda.
First  are  the  growing  regional  and  international 
security  challenges  and  threats,  escalating  conflicts 
and  wars,  and 
the  aggravation  of  geopolitical 
confrontations between large centres of power, which 
could  produce  new  areas  of  tension  in  the  world  and 
make it more difficult to address the continuing global 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  All  those  elements  are 
cause for serious alarm and deep concern. Uzbekistan 
firmly  believes  that  such  acute  contradictions  and 
confrontations can be tackled only through a political 
path  and  peaceful  means,  in  strict  observance  of  the 
fundamental principles of international law enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
The persisting instability in Afghanistan, which is 
exhibiting a tendency to escalate further, poses a serious 
threat to stability and security in Central Asia and the 
greater region. In the situation currently unfolding, the 
accelerated  drawdown  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force may turn out to be counterproductive, 
and that could further complicate the state of affairs in 
Afghanistan.
Today  we  can  say  with  confidence  that  all  the 
parties  interested  in  resolving  the  Afghan  problem 
are unanimous about one thing, which is that there is 
no military way to achieve peace in Afghanistan. The 
President of Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov, said so as long 
ago as 2008 at a NATO Summit in Bucharest, and at the 
General  Assembly’s  2010  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
on the Millennium Development Goals (see A/65/PV.3). 
The  presidential  elections  in  Afghanistan  this  year 
demonstrated vividly that the Afghan people are tired 
of  bloodshed  and  violence,  long-standing  misery  and 
devastation.  Today  they  want  peace  and  stability  and 
the right to define their fate on their own.
The  only  reasonable  way  to  tackle  the  Afghan 
problem  is  to  search  for  a  political  settlement  of  the 
conflict  through  peaceful  negotiations  and  achieve 
consensus to establish a coalition Government in which 
all of Afghanistan’s parties in conflict and its national 
and religious groups would be represented.
Uzbekistan adheres to a policy of non-interference 
in Afghanistan’s internal affairs. We are building and 
will continue to develop stable, friendly relations with 
Afghanistan that proceed from the national interests of 
both  countries,  and,  on  an  exclusively  bilateral  basis, 
we will support the Government elected by the Afghan 
people.
Secondly, in view of the ongoing global financial 
and  economic  crisis,  transport  and  communications 
development  and  strengthened  regional  economic 
cooperation are key factors for ensuring Central Asia’s 
stability  and  sustainable  development.  Implementing 
large  transport  and  communications  infrastructure 
projects  that  can  connect  our  region  with  global 
markets will promote interregional trade and economic 
cooperation, attract investment and help develop social 
and industrial infrastructure, as well as promote steady 
progress in neighbouring regions. I refer in particular 
to  such  projects  as  the  international  Uzbekistan-
Turkmenistan-Iran-Oman  Transport  Corridor,  which 
will  link  Central  Asian  countries  to  the  Middle  East 
by  the  shortest  and  most  reliable  and  secure  route. 
Uzbekistan’s  completion  of  the  Hairatan  to  Mazar-i-
Sharif railway, the first and so far the only functioning 
railroad linking Afghanistan to the outside world, was 
a historic landmark event.
Thirdly,  as  the  States  of  Central  Asia,  like  many 
other  countries,  are  experiencing  growing  water 
shortages, the fair and reasonable use of the resources 
of the transboundary Amu Darya and Syr Darya Rivers 
becomes  extremely  important  to  the  life  support  and 
well-being of the population of Central Asia. Uzbekistan 
adheres firmly to the principled position that the issue of 
the reasonable use of Central Asia’s transboundary river 
resources must be resolved according to the universally 
recognized norms of international law and within the 
framework of the relevant United Nations conventions 
on the use of international watercourses, which clearly 
define  the  principles  of  preventing  damage  to  the 
environment and interests of neighbouring countries.
and 
professional 
truly 
expert 
international, 
We believe it is unacceptable that certain countries 
in  the  region  are  promoting  the  construction  of  large 
hydropower  stations  with  gigantic  dams  without 
independent, 
conducting  an 
unprejudiced 
study. 
Implementing such projects without thorough analysis 
could exacerbate tensions and the potential for conflict 
in  the  region.  Building  such  grandiose  hydropower 
facilities  in  a  mountainous,  highly  seismic  area  with 
a  potential  for  earthquakes  of  magnitude  of  9  points 
or highter could carry a high risk of devastating man-
made catastrophes. I wish to underscore that owing to 
the  potential  for  making  ecological  problems  worse, 
a  growing  number  of  countries  around  the  world  are 
20/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
rejecting the construction of gigantic dams and opting 
for small and medium-size hydropower stations that do 
not damage the environment, safety or socioeconomic 
well-being of their populations.
Fourthly, the dynamic development of our economy 
and modernization of all spheres of the country’s life 
have enabled Uzbekistan to ensure the implementation 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) ahead 
of schedule. Since achieving independence, Uzbekistan 
has  seen  its  economy  grow  almost  five-fold  and  per 
capita  income  increase  8.7  times,  testifying  to  the 
growth in our standards and quality of life. In the past 
10 years, Uzbekistan’s annual rate of growth of its gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  has  exceeded  8  per  cent.  By 
2030 we intend to increase the per capita GDP to $9,300.
About  60  per  cent  of  State  expenditures  are 
channelled to fund social development, with more than 
34.3 per cent of that spent on education. Almost 100 per 
cent  of  school-age  children  attend  secondary  schools. 
Women  now  represent  45.4  per  cent  of  employed 
persons.  We  have  achieved  tangible  successes  in 
improving maternal and child health, with the mortality 
rate  among  children  under  the  age  of  5  reduced  by  a 
factor of 1.8 and maternal mortality rates by 1.6.
Furthermore,  Uzbekistan  will  do  its  utmost  to 
achieve all its intended plans for the implementation of 
the MDGs as soon as possible. We will also continue to 
undertake large-scale programmes in terms of the post-
2015 development agenda.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ali Ahmed Karti, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr. Karti (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
on behalf of the Republic of the Sudan, I would like to 
convey to Mr. Sam Kutesa our sincerest congratulations 
on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  also  extend  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  for 
his  wise  and  patient  conduct  of  the  deliberations  of 
the  previous  session.  We  hope  that  this  session  will 
culminate  in  concrete  results  on  important,  universal 
issues, in particular the achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  implementation 
of the post-2015 development agenda, which is a major 
topic of discussion at this session.
Today, I address the Assembly at a time when the 
Sudan is on the threshold of an important new phase of 
comprehensive political participation that excludes no 
party, faction or group. On 27 January, His Excellency 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan,  President 
Omer Al-Bashir, launched an initiative for an inclusive 
national  dialogue,  calling  on  the  representatives  of 
the Sudanese people to sit at the same table to discuss 
six  major  priorities:  unity  and  peace,  the  economy, 
fundamental  freedoms  and  rights, 
identity, 
foreign  relations  and  the  issues  of  governance  and 
the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  national 
dialogue.
their 
The  President’s  appeal  enjoyed  an  unprecedented 
response on the part of all political forces in the Sudan 
and the international community in view of the fact that 
both the Government and the opposition were convinced 
that dialogue was the only option at that time, as agreed 
by the people of the Sudan. There followed a succession 
of organizational and procedural consultations in order 
to translate the statement of His Excellency the President 
into concrete steps. The initiative even found a positive 
response among the armed groups that still existed. I 
would like to affirm the State’s intention to move the 
dialogue  forward  in  the  hope  of  achieving  a  national 
consensus on the political future of the country.
In  that  regard,  we  greatly  appreciate  the  ongoing 
efforts  of  the  African  Union  and  the  African  Union 
High-level  Implementation  Panel  on  the  three  major 
political,  security  and  economic  tracks.  We  call  on 
the international community to promote a positive and 
constructive role in support of the Sudanese economy, 
in particular by lifting the unilateral sanctions, and by 
cancelling the Sudan’s accumulated debt, in line with 
the aspirations for broader political participation.
The  Sudan  has  continued  to  play  an  effective 
and  positive  role  at  the  regional  level  on  the  African 
continent,  with  a  view  to  establishing  peace  and 
stability  in  neighbouring  States.  When  a  conflict 
broke  out  in  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  the  Sudan 
adhered  to  the  principle  of  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of that country. The Sudan was the first 
State to provide humanitarian aid to those affected in 
South  Sudan,  and  continues  to  do  so.  The  Sudan  is 
participating  effectively  with  the  Intergovernmental 
Authority on Development so as to put an end to the war 
and to conclude a reconciliation agreement between the 
two parties to the conflict in South Sudan. My country 
has  received  more  than  100,000  internally  displaced 
persons from South Sudan.
In that context, we recall the Sudan’s constructive 
efforts for the restoration of peace and stability in the 
14-55113
21/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Central African Republic, thereby complementing other 
international  and  regional  efforts.  The  Sudan  is  also 
actively  working  with  Libya’s  neighbours  in  assisting 
the Libyan parties to reach an agreement on a solution 
to  the  Libyan  crisis.  Internationally,  I  underscore  the 
trilateral  cooperation  among  the  Sudan,  Ethiopia  and 
the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  in  order  to  ensure  the 
common enjoyment of the waters of the Blue Nile and 
to avert any negative repercussions in that country.
In  that  regard,  we  also  stress  the  efforts  of  the 
Sudan  in  the  area  of  border  control  and  demarcation 
with  neighbouring  States  in  order  to  strengthen  the 
border  posts  and  border  monitoring  and  security 
and  to  prevent  transnational  crime,  including  illegal 
immigration  and  the  illegal  transfer  of  small  arms 
and  light  weapons.  In  that  context,  we  appreciate  the 
experience of the joint border forces of the Sudan and 
Chad, the Sudan and the Central African Republic, and 
the Sudan and Libya as models of successful regional 
security  cooperation  between  neighbouring  States  in 
the interests of peace and stability. In that connection, I 
would like to recall that in mid-October 2014, the Sudan 
will  host  a  conference,  in  partnership  with  Italy,  the 
European Union and the African Union, on preventing 
illegal immigration, smuggling and human trafficking.
Concerning  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  the 
question  of  Palestine  has  continued  to  present  a  real 
challenge for the international community for decades. 
It has now reached a stage that requires the exceptional 
and  prompt  action  of  the  international  community  in 
order  to  contain  the  situation  and  to  move  it  forward 
towards sustainable peace in the Middle East, through 
the achievement of the legitimate and urgent demands 
of  the  Palestinian  people,  in  particular  the  protection 
and reconstruction of what the Israeli war machine has 
destroyed. The entire world’s ongoing disregard for the 
genocidal war in Palestine and its failure to intervene to 
protect the Palestinians and their rights fuel extremism 
in  the  region  and  throughout  the  world.  As  long  as 
the Palestinian people opt for a peaceful solution, it is 
imperative to support that direction in order to prevent 
despair  from  spreading  and  the  pursuit  of  destructive 
solutions.
We  fully  accept  and  support  the  theme  of  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  as  a  major  topic  for 
discussion at this session. However, there remain only 
a few months until the end of 2014 and we still have not 
achieved  all  the  MDGs.  We  nevertheless  remain  very 
hopeful that we can overcome the obstacles that have 
impeded  us  from  achieving  those  Goals  and  that  the 
deliberations will culminate in a thorough preparation 
for  the  development  of  viable  post-2015  sustainable 
development goals.
In  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2), adopted in 2000, the Heads of State 
and Government unanimously agreed a set of principles 
and goals that laid the foundation for an international 
partnership  to  put  an  end  to  people’s  suffering  and 
poverty. The year 2015 was designated as the deadline 
for  eradicating  poverty  and  for  ensuring  well-being. 
However,  the  achievements  reached  on  the  eve  of  the 
end  of  2014  are  still  short  of  our  aspirations,  since 
poverty,  suffering,  need,  environmental  deterioration 
and unemployment persist.
The  agreement  of  the  world’s  leaders  with  regard 
to  mitigating  poverty  requires  that  the  obstacles  to 
achieving such development be overcome. However, the 
development partners that drafted the Declaration have 
adopted actions that run counter to its provisions and 
to human rights. Such coercive measures as unilateral 
sanctions  outside 
international 
legitimacy  have  flagrantly  damaged  the  content  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration.  That  has  had  an  adverse 
impact  on  the  noble  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
Declaration.
the  framework  of 
Indications  of  the  current  situation  in  human 
development are that the Sudan has achieved concrete 
progress  in  several  fields,  especially  in  peace,  health 
care,  education  and  the  standard  of  living.  While 
acknowledging  uneven  degrees  of  progress  between 
rural  and  urban  areas,  the  Sudan  has  implemented  a 
federal system to promote the role of local communities. 
However, such progress has been greatly damaged as a 
result of coercive and unilateral measures illegally and 
unjustifiably  imposed  against  the  Sudan,  which  have 
aggravated  and  delayed  initiatives,  thereby  negating 
the  Sudan’s  role,  and  which  continue  to  shackle  the 
country’s  economy.  In  that  regard,  I  recall  that  the 
international consensus, achieved after the referendum 
in South Sudan that led to the separation of South Sudan, 
had  been  to  cancel  the  Sudan’s  debts.  A  number  of 
States were assigned to do so in order to promote peace 
and development after the end of the war. However, that 
agreement has not been implemented so far.
In  the  Sudan,  in  the  context  of  our  established 
commitment  to  the  MDGs,  we  have  formulated  the 
required policies, which have gone a long way towards 
promoting  several  poverty-eradication  projects  and 
22/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
initiatives,  such  as  the  establishment  of  a  funding 
portfolio  for  small  families  and  those  with  limited 
income;  programmes  to  recruit  graduates  and  young 
people  in  capital  projects;  the  promotion  of  the  role 
of  women  in  governance  and  management;  and  the 
strenghtening of the role of the zakat fund in promoting 
quick  and  short-term  funds  and  other  projects,  which 
have resulted in helping thousands of families to play 
a  productive  role  in  paying  the  zakat.  That  is  now 
under  consideration  by  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation,  so  that  it  can  be  applied  throughout  the 
Islamic States.
However,  we  must  affirm  from  this  rostrum 
the  importance  of  the  commitment  to  a  common 
responsibility  in  achieving  development  objectives, 
because  the  international  community  must  support 
and  assist  developing  countries,  especially  the  least 
developed, which represent the segment more in need 
of  support  and  capacity-building.  That  is  why,  in  the 
light of declining development assistance, we hope that 
deliberations  at  this  session  culminate  in  our  taking 
practical steps in financing development for developing 
countries, especially those emerging from conflict. On 
the basis of those measures and in order to guarantee 
serving  the  objectives  of  development,  my  delegation 
feels it important to include the following requirements 
in the post-2015 development agenda.
First, we should consider debt cancellation, providing 
the  necessary  funding  and  renouncing  discrimination 
and  exclusionary  political  considerations.  Secondly, 
we  should  facilitate  the  transfer  of  development-
related technology and information through advanced 
communications 
technology.  Thirdly,  we  should 
suspend coercive measures, sanctions and all kinds of 
illegal measures imposed unilaterally by States outside 
the  framework  of  international  legitimacy.  Fourthly, 
we  should  launch  feasible  initiatives  in  North-South 
relations,  such  as  funding  food-security  projects, 
where my country can play a pioneering and effective 
role in their success. Fifthly, we should help the United 
Nations and its various organs to play an effective role 
in  achieving  their  desired  development  objectives  by 
providing the mechanisms enabling them to do so.
This  year’s  general  debate  coincides  with  the 
United Nations Climate Summit, the outcomes of which 
we hope will provide a strong impetus for the current 
efforts to address climate change and to turn the grave 
challenge  facing  humankind  into  an  opportunity  for 
joint action in order to achieve a binding international 
to  supplement 
commitment 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  take 
practical steps towards a green economy, and reduce the 
carbon emissions that threaten the safety of our planet. 
In that regard, the Sudan, a State affected by the climate 
change  phenomenon,  accords  special  importance  to 
the environment issue. We recall that the drought and 
desertification  that  have  hobbled  Africa  north  of  the 
equator are the living examples of the effcts of climate 
change, which have led to tribal conflicts over sources 
of water and pasture. The Sudan’s involvement in the 
United Nations Environment Programme over the past 
40 years has been consistent with our concern in that 
regard.
remains 
The  Sudan 
in  an  effective  global 
partnership in the fight against terrorism at the national 
level.  We  have  come  a  long  way  in  harmonizing  our 
laws with international legislation and in working with 
international law and instruments relevant to fighting 
terrorism. We commit ourselves to those international 
laws  and  reaffirm  our  commitment  against  all  forms 
and manifestations of terrorism. At the same time, we 
condemn  any  attempt  to  identify  terrorism  with  any 
religion, race or culture and call for the redoubling of 
efforts to enhance international and regional cooperation 
to stand up to terrorism. The phenomenon of terrorism 
can be addressed and overcome only through a balanced 
international  system  based  on  equality  and  respect 
for the established principles of international law and 
the Charter of the United Nations. In that context, we 
feel  that  any  unilateral  action  based  on  politicizing 
terrorism will not eliminate but exacerbate it. There are 
numerous instances supporting that conclusion.
In conclusion, the Sudan affirms that international 
and  regional  security  is  an  integrated,  interconnected 
system and that the Organization has invested enormous 
efforts and resources in peacekeeping operations. It is 
now time to do so, and we have significant experience 
in that regard. It is time for the Organization to invest 
in  peacemaking  and  peacebuilding  by  supporting 
developing countries and building the capacities of least 
developed countries so that they can achieve the MDGs 
and peace and development can supplement each other.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Raúl 
Morales, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Guatemala.
Mr.  Morales  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would  like  to  begin  my  remarks  by  conveying  our 
14-55113
23/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
greetings to Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. At the same time, I 
wish to express our appreciation to Mr. John Ashe for 
his recognized leadership and exceptional performance 
as  President  at  the  sixty-eighth  session.  I  should 
also  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  stewardship  and  especially 
for  the  success  of  the  recent  United  Nations  Climate 
Summit 2014.
Since  September  2013,  when  the  President  of 
Guatemala, Otto Pérez Molina, addressed the General 
Assembly (see A/68/PV.12), 12 months have passed with 
significant  progress  for  Guatemala  in  three  priority 
areas of our domestic policy, in spite of our having to 
face some new challenges, including a recent prolonged 
drought.
First,  I  can  report  that  we  have  advanced  in  the 
battle  against  chronic  malnutrition  among  children. 
According to an independent investigation, in one year, 
the  program  Zero  Hunger  has  succeeded  in  reducing 
chronic malnutrition on the same scale as that achieved 
during  the  past  decade,  that  is,  by  almost  2  per  cent. 
That  means  that,  should  that  trend  be  maintained, 
by  the  end  of  this  Administration  we  will  have  been 
able to reduce the rate of chronic malnutrition beyond 
that achieved since 1985, proving that democracy and 
appropriate  policies  would  have  enabled  us  to  make 
progress for Guatemalan children.
Secondly, I would like to say that the Administration 
of  President  Pérez  Molina  has  also  advanced  in 
complying  with  the  Pact  for  Peace,  Security  and 
Justice.  For  the  third  consecutive  year,  the  number 
of  homicides  in  Guatemala  has  decreased,  with  a 
cumulative  contraction  of  25  per  cent  between  2011 
and 2014. With that, we are coming closer to achieving 
the  same  levels  of  security  recorded  after  the  Peace 
Accords were signed in 1996. That progress shows that 
the measures taken are producing the expected results 
and that Guatemalan democracy is slowly winning its 
battle against crime and impunity, in the framework of 
respect for the law and compliance with human rights.
With regard to that second achievement, once more 
we  express  our  appreciation  for  the  support  received 
from  the  International  Commission  against  Impunity 
in Guatemala (CICIG), an entity that has strengthened 
criminal  prosecution  against  mafia  networks,  some 
of  which  even  infiltrated  the  security  and  justice 
establishment. As the final year of the mandate of CICIG 
approaches,  after  nearly  eight  years  of  cooperation 
with  three  democratically  elected  Governments,  our 
assessment is that international cooperation programme, 
supported  by  the  United  Nations,  was  fully  justified, 
since Guatemalan institutions today are better prepared 
to take on their constitutional role.
Moreover, 
this 
last  year  will  be  critical 
to 
ensuring the institutional sustainability of the judicial 
investigations  and  procedures  already  under  way. 
We  thank  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  for  joining  us  and  leaving  that  great 
legacy for Guatemala. Our country will now have the 
responsibility of strengthening a system of security and 
justice capable of reducing impunity and ensuring the 
total  separation  between  criminal  networks  and  our 
public institutions.
A  third  advancement  that  I  would  like  to  share 
with the Assembly has to do with competitiveness and 
the  business  climate.  In  the  past  two  years  we  have 
advanced  eight  steps  in  the  Global  Competitiveness 
Index,  established  by  the  World  Economic  Forum.  In 
fact, the World Bank has highlighted us for the second 
consecutive year as one of the most reformed countries 
in the world in terms of improving the business climate, 
jumping  19  positions  in  the  respective  report.  That 
is  due  to  the  actions  of  the  present  Administration 
in  the  framework  of  the  Pact  for  Oversight  and 
Competitiveness.
That  improvement  in  the  business  climate  is 
above  all  the  result  of  administrative  improvements 
that  have  reduced  bureaucratic  procedures,  supported 
additionally  by  a  progressive  improvement  in  the 
country’s  infrastructure.  In  addition,  as  we  informed 
the  Climate  Change  Summit,  our  commitment 
regarding economic progress is made within the context 
of increasing sustainability. The change in the energy 
matrix towards more sustainable and environmentally 
friendly  energy  sources  and  away  from  fossil  fuels, 
which produce greenhouse gases, is being achieved by 
bringing  into  the  system  more  plants  that  depend  on 
the sustainable use of water, geothermal sources, solar 
energy and even natural gas.
In  that  context,  we  have  gone  ahead  with  various 
strategic agreements with our neighbouring countries. 
For example, with Mexico, we can report on the projects 
to reconstruct and modernize border crossings on land 
and  the  signing  of  a  historic  agreement  for  a  project 
that  will  transport  gas  from  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  to 
Guatemala and all of Central America. With Belize, we 
are moving forward and have negotiated 15 important 
24/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
bilateral  agreements  in  all  areas,  which  we  will  sign 
in  December.  They  will  strengthen  the  relations  not 
only  between  our  Governments  but  also  between  our 
peoples. In the Central American Integration System, 
we are making progress in consolidating our integration 
process,  and  the  next  goal  is  to  establish  a  customs 
union. In addition, relations between Central America 
and the Caribbean are becoming increasingly intensive, 
guaranteeing greater markets and improved economic 
and political relations among our countries.
In the context of advances in the social, economic, 
security  and  justice  areas,  we  cannot  forget  some 
challenges that have gained a higher profile during the 
current  year.  In  that  regard,  I  must  refer  to  the  crisis 
of the Central American child migrants on the border 
between  the  United  States  and  Mexico.  The  crisis, 
provoked  by  diverse  factors  in  both  Central  America 
and the United States, has alerted us to the need to move 
more quickly on the path towards greater prosperity, in 
particular for children and adolescents.
We  trust  that  the  people  and  Government  of 
the  United  States  understand  that  the  migrant  crisis 
requires a strategic response that attacks the structural 
roots  of  the  phenomenon  and  provides  sustained 
actions.  That  implies  working  together  to  promote 
development  and  prosperity  in  Guatemala,  Honduras 
and El Salvador and intelligent management of seasonal 
work  for  migrants  that  both  satisfies  the  demands  of 
the labour market in the United States and provides for 
workers from Central America. It is also important to 
make the necessary efforts to regulate the situation of 
undocumented persons in the United States. Above all, 
migrants must not be criminalized, because migration 
is neither a sin nor a crime. It is the networks of human 
traffickers  that  are  criminal,  promoting  corruption, 
extortion, kidnapping and sexual abuse.
In  the  same  vein,  I  cannot  fail  to  mention  the 
challenge posed by the shortage of rain this year in all 
the Central American region. The drought has led to the 
loss of crops of basic foods for hundreds of thousands of 
families, and addressing the food crisis will incur a cost 
of close to $50 million for Guatemala alone during the 
next eight months. It is clear that the drought is a result 
of climate change and that, without decisive action by 
our Government and the solidarity of the international 
community,  many  families  will  find  themselves  in  a 
very vulnerable situation due to hunger. The speeches 
during  the  Climate  Change  Summit  must  translate 
into  direct  humanitarian  assistance  that  reaches  the 
most  needy  communities  in  Central  America  and  the 
Caribbean. It is time to transform rhetoric into action.
I would like to mention three important processes 
driving  the  United  Nations  that  Guatemala  strongly 
supports.
that  must  clearly  embrace 
First  is  putting  together  a  post-2015  development 
inclusive  and 
agenda 
sustainable development goals, including those related 
to  promoting  justice  for  all.  In  that  context,  we  must 
also  incorporate  specific  goals  to  avoid  man-made 
climate change.
is  determined 
to  promote, 
from 
the  General  Assembly  of 
Secondly,  Guatemala  is  committed  to  supporting 
the  2016  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  discuss  the  world  drug  problem.  President  Pérez 
Molina, together with other Presidents of the Western 
Hemisphere, 
through 
leadership,  a  frank  and  sincere  debate  on  this  issue, 
utilizing  as  a  main  reference  the  two  declarations 
emanating 
the 
Organization  of  American  States  during  the  past  18 
months. During the most recent extraordinary session, 
held a few days ago in my country, I was charged with 
transmitting to the presidency of this General Assembly 
and  to  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  Drugs  and 
Crime the text of the resolution, which I will do in due 
time. Our focus must be comprehensive, objective and 
evidence-based.  And  our  goals  must  be  realistic  and 
measurable — no more dead products of the war against 
drugs, no more false promises. A comprehensive focus 
is necessary.
Thirdly, Guatemala will follow up on the resolution 
and  recommendations  of  the  World  Conference  on 
Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  69/2)  and  work  to  see 
that the world recognizes the rights of the indigenous 
peoples as one of the basic platforms of the international 
legal architecture of human rights.
Like many of the heads of delegation who preceded 
me  in  speaking,  I  view  with  growing  concern  the 
deteriorating security landscape facing various parts of 
the globe. The exceptional cruelty of militant jihadist 
groups  leaves  us  astonished,  and  we  energetically 
condemn  those  crimes.  We  support  all  measures  to 
combat them, including in particular the elimination of 
the root causes that lead many people to those levels of 
fanaticism.
We are also profoundly troubled by the instability 
in the Middle East, especially by the prolonged conflict 
in  Syria,  which  has  already  taken  an  immense  toll  in 
14-55113
25/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
lives  and  human  suffering.  We  are  concerned  that  in 
Central  Europe  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  such  as  respect  for  territorial 
integrity,  are  being  put  to  the  test.  We  also  remain 
concerned  about  tensions  in  various  countries  on  the 
African continent and on the Korean peninsula.
We believe that the United Nations offers the ideal 
venue in which to address those conflicts and tensions, 
and  we  reiterate  our  hope  that  dialogue,  agreement 
and  preventive  diplomacy  will  take  precedence  over 
the use of force. In that respect, we pin our hopes on 
a  negotiated  outcome  of  the  long-standing  conflict 
between Israel and Palestine with the emergence of two 
States, living in peace within secure borders.
I  end  my  remarks  by  repeating  what  President 
Otto  Pérez  Molina  said  last  year  to  the  Assembly, 
when  he  congratulated  the  United  Nations  system  for 
its  ongoing  commitment  to  seek  peace  and  justice 
worldwide. Guatemala aligns itself with that statement 
and those same goals and can affirm with pride that we 
are and will always be a country that is guided by the 
principles  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the  Organization. 
That  sentiment  is  reflected  in  our  commitment  to 
peacekeeping operations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Harry Kalaba, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Zambia.
Mr.  Kalaba  (Zambia):  I  extend  our  sincere 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session.  We  see  him  undertaking  that  onerous  task 
at  a  particularly  important  moment  in  not  only  the 
forging  of  the  future  global  development  agenda,  but 
the development of international peace and security. I 
therefore  assure  him  of  my  Government’s  support  as 
he sets out to discharge that important assignment. In 
the same spirit, I also convey our appreciation for the 
contribution made by his predecessor, Mr. John Ashe, 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
I wish to highlight our deep concern at the global 
health  emergency  that  has  resulted  from  the  Ebola 
outbreak  in  parts  of  Africa.  That  burden  is  not  only 
for  the  people  of  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea; 
Zambia  views  the  epidemic  as  a  common  challenge 
to  humankind,  and  therefore  stands  ready  to  support 
all efforts required to defeat the disease and ensure a 
return  to  normalcy  in  the  daily  economic  and  social 
lives of our sister Republics that are directly facing the 
disease.
There  is  growing  acceptance  and  concern  that 
Ebola  could  easily  spread  beyond  the  first  four 
countries  that  have  so  far  borne  the  brunt  of  the 
disease.  The  recent  resurgence  of  the  disease  in  the 
neighbouring  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  a 
reminder of the extent of the danger. Beyond that, we 
remain deeply concerned that over 5,000 people in all 
have  been  victims  of  the  disease  and  2,400  needless 
deaths have already been recorded across the continent. 
Zambia therefore supports the call for greater and wider 
involvement  by  all  Member  States.  The  World  Health 
Organization has already warned that if the epidemic 
is  left  unchecked,  we  will  soon  be  dealing  with  over 
20,000 Ebola patients.
It is equally for that reason that we continue to look 
at global health issues as important parameters for global 
development.  The  Ebola  public  health  emergency  and 
other ongoing challenges, such as malaria, tuberculosis, 
AIDS  and  other,  non-communicable  diseases,  need  a 
concerted global approach.
In the past few months, the international community 
has  witnessed  the  growing  desperation  of  extremist 
terrorist  organizations,  notably  through  the  abduction 
of innocent schoolgirls in Borno state, Nigeria, and the 
wider reign of terror, which includes bombing civilian 
trading points across that important African nation.
Zambia  is  also  concerned  about  the  insecurity 
currently being experienced as a result of the instability 
in Ukraine. We have followed the counter-accusations, 
which point to the deep-seated divisions and suspicions 
of  a  bygone  era.  Sadly,  the  human  losses  have  been 
heavy, as ordinary Ukrainians are caught in the middle 
of a crisis that is strongly influenced by foreign factors. 
Innocent  civilians  from  other  nations  have  also  been 
drawn in through the loss of lives on Malaysia Airlines 
Flight MH-17. We share in the sorrow of the families 
and  the  nations  that  lost  loved  ones  in  that  human-
caused  catastrophe.  Zambia  believes  that  ordinary 
Ukrainian  citizens  are  of  the  same  view  and  desire 
nothing  but  peace,  harmony  and  prosperity  for  their 
country.  They  should  be  allowed  to  enjoy  those  basic 
human conditions.
Those  and  other  global  security  concerns  linger, 
facing  a  United  Nations  that  is  becoming  ever  more 
challenged  in  coordinating  any  robust  or  convincing 
global response.
26/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  also 
taking  place  at  a  moment  of  renewed  focus  on  the 
global  development  agenda  through  the  negotiations 
on  the  post-2015  agenda  and  the  work  to  produce 
the  sustainable  development  goals 
(SDGs).  My 
understanding has been that the negotiations have thus 
far been engaging and have included the participation of 
all stakeholders, including Governments, civil society, 
the business community and academia. It can therefore 
be said that we have laid a solid foundation upon which 
the world will articulate its development policies for the 
next decade and a half, in line with the three pillars of 
the SDGs.
We  look  forward  to  the  completion  of  those 
deliberations,  knowing  that  unless  the  means  of 
implementation  are  adequately  covered  with  new 
investment inflows, we risk rendering that noble effort 
a futile exercise. Given the immense challenges facing 
our nations, it is such multilateral approaches that will 
address the underlying cross-border factors that affect 
climate change, global poverty, public health, children’s 
welfare, labour and migration, youth unemployment, the 
advancement  of  women  and  many  other  issues  whose 
solutions  lie  in  actions  that  may  have  transboundary 
effects.
The new global development regime must therefore 
demonstrate  a  new  and  more  robust  approach  to 
those  problems.  For  that  reason,  Zambia  supports  the 
related  meetings  being  held  alongside  this  session  of 
the Assembly, notably those relating to population and 
development,  labour  and  decent  work,  and  the  2014 
Climate Summit. It is hoped that those discussions will, 
in  the  not-too-distant  future,  lead  to  lasting  solutions 
to  the  development  challenges  faced  by  many  of  our 
countries.
On  another  important  matter,  I  wish  to  report 
that  Zambia  has  increased  its  campaign  to  forestall 
the growing problem of child marriages and early and 
forced  marriages.  That  problem  is  strongly  rooted  in 
the  prevailing  poverty  levels  in  some  poor  families 
and  in  the  quest  by  organized  criminals  to  profit 
from  selling  off  under-age  girls  either  into  marriage 
or  to  engage  in  exploitative  vices.  With  that  national 
awakening to the problem, Zambia hosted a three-day 
national  symposium  on  the  problem  in  July.  We  look 
forward to working with other nations to ensure that a 
global approach is developed to curb the incidences of 
child, early and forced marriages, which is a problem 
with greater consequences for the future advancement 
of women.
Zambia is also undertaking several other initiatives 
aimed at reducing the gender divide. My Government is 
of the conviction that girls and women should be enabled 
and allowed to reach their full potential and be able to 
contribute to national growth on an equal footing with 
men. In that regard, the education of the girl child and 
the  socioeconomic  empowerment  of  women  through 
their representation in key decision-making positions is 
at the top of the national agenda.
Furthermore,  Zambia  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women 
made at the fourth World Conference on Women, held 
in  Beijing  in  1995,  My  Government  has  continued  to 
stress  the  importance  of  women’s  emancipation  and 
their contribution to national development in line with 
the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.
The question of the reform of the Security Council 
remains an important priority for Zambia and the rest 
of the African continent. We remain deeply concerned 
that little progress has been recorded in the negotiations 
on the expansion of the Council. Africa remains fully 
committed to all five clusters of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  outlined  in  decision  62/557,  of 
2008.  As  a  member  of  the  African  Union  Committee 
of Ten on Security Council reform, let me echo other 
voices  in  reiterating  the  importance  that  our  member 
States  attach  to  the  realization  of  those  long-overdue 
reforms.
My  delegation  also  accords  due  priority  to  the 
questions relating to countries in special situations, in 
particular  landlocked  developing  countries  (LLDCs), 
for  which  group  Zambia  was  nominated  as  Chair  in 
March. The implementation of the Almaty Programme 
of Action, as adopted in 2003, has run its course, albeit 
with  mixed  results.  It  is  coming  up  for  review  at  the 
United Nations Conference on Landlocked Developing 
Countries, to be held in Vienna in just over a month’s 
time, from 3 to 5 November. The 32 Member States in 
that grouping are counting on the support of the entire 
United  Nations  membership  to  ensure  a  successful 
Conference,  which  we  expect  will  firmly  place  the 
LLDCs  on  a  sound  path  of  development.  I  therefore 
look forward to the full participation of Member States 
at the Conference.
I  would  like  to  end  by  informing  the  Assembly 
that  our  historic  capital  city,  Lusaka,  has  for  the  past 
14-55113
27/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
year been celebrating its centenary. That occasion was 
followed this year by two other important celebrations, 
namely, the ninetieth birthday of our founding father, the 
first  Republican  President,  Mr.  Kenneth  Kaunda,  and 
the fiftieth anniversary of our national independence, 
which falls on 24 October.
The  commemorations  have  offered  a  unique 
chance  not  only  to  celebrate,  but  also  to  reflect  on 
our development path. I submit that within our known 
difficult  struggle  to  achieve  social  and  economic 
development  lies  a  strong  national  spirit,  eager  to 
contribute not only to our own growth, but also to that 
which  the  growing  global  interdependence  demands. 
Let me, on behalf of all Zambians, express appreciation 
to  all  those  that  have  helped  our  beloved  country  in 
achieving those milestones. Zambia looks forward to a 
strengthened and more versatile United Nations system 
that  will  help  create  the  conditions  for  the  further 
growth and development of our youthful nation.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Singh (India): I take the floor in exercise India’s 
right  of  reply  to  the  unwarranted  references  made  by 
Pakistan’s Prime Minister in his statement. I would like 
draw the attention of the General Assembly to the fact 
that the people of Jammu and Kashmir have peacefully 
chosen their destiny in accordance with the universally 
accepted democratic principles and practices, and they 
continue to do so. We therefore reject in their entirety 
the untenable comments made by the representative of 
Pakistan.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  I  apologize  for  taking 
the  floor.  It  was  not  my  intention.  However,  I  am 
compelled  to  take  the  floor  to  reply  to  the  comments 
made  a  short  time  ago  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Azerbaijan.
Every  time  I  hear  statements  based  on  falsified 
information,  I  never  cease  to  be  amused  at  what  an 
interesting  phenomenon  wishful  thinking  can  be. 
Having  repeated  the  same  lies  year  after  year,  one 
might even think that the leadership of Azerbaijan has 
started to believe in what they have been lying about. 
But as an oriental saying I once quoted goes, regardless 
of how many times one stirs the cup, the tea will never 
become  sweeter.  The  reality  is  that  no  one  buys  the 
story of Armenia being the bad guy and having taken 
control of Azerbaijani lands.
It is probably easy to make statements when nobody 
verifies what one says and what is true and what is a 
lie.  Anybody  who  cares  to  find  out  who  is  right  and 
who is wrong need only search for newspaper articles 
from  1988  on  how  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict 
started and how Azerbaijan responded with massacres 
and, afterwards, with a full-scale war unleashed on the 
peaceful Armenian population. Other relevant articles 
are those from 2004, when the ceasefire agreement was 
signed between the authorities of Azerbaijan, Nagorno 
Karabakh  and  Armenia.  Representatives  can  Google 
them as well, but they should be careful as they might 
stumble  upon  Azerbaijani  sites  with  an  altered  world 
history  from  the  time  of  the  Great  Flood  and  Noah 
to  our  days.  That  is  because  all  true  information  is 
persecuted in Azerbaijan, and all the bloggers writing 
the truth are behind bars. Armenia has never had any 
claims whatsoever on Azerbaijan, but the populations 
of the Nagorno Karabakh autonomous region expressed 
the  right  to  self-determination  through  their  elected 
representatives back in 1988, realizing their absolutely 
legal constitutional right. In fact, the only aggressor in 
that  case  was  Azerbaijan  itself,  who  responded  with 
hostilities,  massacres  and  war.  And  that  is  how  it  all 
started, with the aggression of Azerbaijan against the 
Armenians of Nagorno Karabakh.
Let  me  give  the  Assembly  a  few  facts,  or  rather 
dates,  and  whoever  wants  to  do  so  can  do  the  math. 
The  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics  officially 
ceased  to  exist  on  26  December  1991.  Azerbaijan 
held  its  independence  referendum  three  days  later, 
on  29  December  1991.  The  independence  referendum 
was held in Nagorno Karabakh on 10 December 1991, 
when  the  Soviet  Union  still  existed.  It  resulted  in  the 
approval of independence by 99.89 per cent of voters. 
Therefore, by the time of the dissolution of the Union 
of Soviet Socialist Republics and Azerbaijan’s gaining 
of  independence,  Nagorno  Karabakh  was  already 
independent.  Any  intrusions  by  Azerbaijan  against 
an  independent  Nagorno  Karabakh  constitute  nothing 
else but a blatant violation of international law and an 
28/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
explicit act of aggression against the Nagorno-Karabakh 
Republic.
I really cannot understand the logic of Azerbaijan’s 
statement,  which  calls  upon  Armenia  to  comply  with 
resolutions and/or decisions of international or regional 
organizations  to  which  Armenia  is  not  even  party. 
That  is  also  something  new,  since  there  is  a  lot  of 
ground  for  legal  novelties  in  that  regard  as  well,  and 
that is also wishful thinking. Let us repeat the names 
of  many  organizations.  Who  cares  if  Armenia  is  not 
bound by those decisions and they have been adopted at 
Azerbaijan’s initiative, only sometimes through explicit 
blackmailing.
It is very obvious also why Azerbaijan constantly 
mentions some sort of attacks on Azerbaijani civilians. 
The  Azerbaijani  militants,  on  a  regular  basis,  kill, 
maim and torture civilians and shoot at delegations of 
the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  on  the 
border.  The  hypocrisy  is  that  Azerbaijan  then  starts 
blaming the victim for having been killed by the killers.
the 
speeches  of  the  President  of  Azerbaijan  calling  for  a 
military  solution  to  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict. 
That  is  well  documented,  even  on  the  President’s 
website,  whereas  no  politician,  no  analyst  and  no 
media source can provide a single example of similar 
statements from the Armenian side.
The  Azerbaijani  media  widely  publicize 
Another  fact  is  that  the  OSCE  Minsk  Group   
co-Chairs  have  suggested  removing  the  snipers  from 
the line of contact. Azerbaijan is today the only party 
that has openly rejected those proposals, continuing to 
murder civilians with their snipers.
Another shameful lie is the charge of the destruction 
of Azerbaijani historical and cultural monuments. Once 
again, the places have shifted. All of the civilized world 
silently  witnessed  the  destruction  of  the  Armenian 
medieval monuments in Julfa, Nakhchivan, which is well 
documented  through  videos,  photos  and  eye-witness 
reports.  They  were  not  just  Armenian  monuments, 
they were part of the cultural heritage of humankind. 
And  they  are  gone  now.  Meanwhile,  some  of  the  few 
monuments  of  Islamic  art,  which  have  nothing  to  do 
with Azerbaijani culture, are under the strict protection 
of the State, and those that needed repair or renovation 
as  a  result  of  Azerbaijani  shelling  have  been  restored 
with  professional  help  by  invited  specialists.  I  would 
therefore like to call upon on the Azerbaijani leadership 
to  engage  constructively  in  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
peace process, in the name of finding a lasting solution 
based on the principles of self-determination, territorial 
integrity and the non-use or threat of use of force.
Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan): I am compelled to 
take  the  floor  in  exercise  of  my  right  of  reply  to  the 
remarks just made and the allegations just raised against 
my country by the previous speaker, whose statement 
seems  to  be  a  reflection  of  Armenia’s  habitual  moral 
and  legal  irresponsibility,  as  well  as  its  distorted  and 
misguided sense of international law and history.
Its obsession with consolidating the current status 
quo and finally imposing a fait accompli situation, thus 
trying  to  equalize  the  responsibility  of  the  aggressor, 
Armenia, and the victim, in this case Azerbaijan, now 
takes  new  form  as  Armenia  attempts  to  distort  the 
objectives  of  the  four  Security  Council  resolutions 
822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993) and 
blame  Azerbaijan  for  non-compliance.  The  Security 
Council  resolutions,  our  most  authoritative  rulings 
on  the  problem,  contain  important  qualifications  of 
the  actions  of  the  Armenian  side  and  declaring  its 
claims  to  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan  null.  It  should 
also be recalled that the Security Council resolutions, 
which  Armenia  definitely  has  difficulty  accepting 
and  referring  to,  were  adopted  in  response  to  the 
aggression  and  invasion  of  an  Azerbaijani  district  by 
Armenian forces. Besides condemning the use of force, 
the Security Council demanded the full, unconditional 
withdrawal of armed forces from the occupied lands of 
Azerbaijan.  By  speaking  and  blaming  Azerbaijan  for 
non-compliance  with  the  resolutions,  one  should  ask 
Armenia: what about the occupation and the presence 
of  the  military  forces  of  Armenia  at  this  time  on  the 
territory and lands of Azerbaijan?
The  memory  of  Armenian  officials  conveniently 
lapses  when  it  comes  to  the  provision  of  those  well-
known resolutions, which, inter alia, recognize the fact 
of  the  invasion  and  confirm  the  territorial  integrity 
and  sovereignty  of 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan. 
Armenia easily bargains away those sacred principles. 
Not  surprisingly,  the  Armenian  representative  also 
brazenly neglected the fact that, along with the Nagorno 
Karabakh region, Armenia continues to occupy seven 
adjacent  districts  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan.  The 
Armenian  side  also  tends  to  conveniently  forget  to 
mention  that  the  Security  Council  demand  for  an 
immediate, unconditional withdrawal of foreign armed 
forces  from  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan  has  yet  to  be 
implemented.
14-55113
29/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
Another  question  to  be  addressed  is,  how  can 
Azerbaijan be responsible for the failure of Armenia to 
liberate the territories that Armenia occupies? Blaming 
Azerbaijan  for  non-compliance  with  the  resolutions 
is  a  mere  projection  of  the  guilty  conscience  of  the 
Armenian leadership, as Armenia itself has constantly 
and  continually  committed  aggressions  against 
Azerbaijan  by  occupying  its  territory  since  1992. 
That  is  the  favourite  —  and,  I  would  say,  frequently 
used — argument of the Armenian side with regard to 
the principle of self-determination.
It is a well-known fact that, under international law, 
the  principle  of  self-determination  applies  in  reality 
to  three  categories  of  people  —  and  I  believe  that 
there  is  certainly  a  need  for  education  in  that  regard 
for  one  delegation  —  first,  to  people  of  sovereign 
States;  secondly,  to  people  of  territorial  units  formed 
during colonialism; and, thirdly, peoples under foreign 
domination,  subjugation  and  exploitation,  including 
peoples  under  foreign  military  occupation.  There  is 
no  doubt  that  the  members  of  the  Armenian  ethnic 
minority group living in the Nagorno Karabakh region 
of Azerbaijan do not fit into any of those categories of 
peoples  and  will  never  be  considered  an  independent 
subject with the right to self-determination. Yet another 
question to be addressed is: how many times can one 
nation exercise its right to self-determination? Armenia 
exists, and Armenians do live on that territory.
There were many things said about how Azerbaijan 
replied with aggression. Once again, Azerbaijan cannot 
reply with aggression because Azerbaijan is the victim. 
How can Azerbaijan be an aggressor if its own territory 
is under occupation and one eighth of its citizens have 
become refugees and internally displaced persons?
With 
to 
regard 
the  comments  concerning 
compliance with the decisions and resolutions of regional 
organizations, that comes as no surprise given the fact 
that Armenia does not respect the norms and principles 
of international law. If it contravenes, contradicts and 
challenges the very provisions of the Security Council 
resolutions,  then  I  believe  it  is  no  surprise  that  they 
easily overlook the references and decisions of regional 
and intergovernmental organizations.
The  attacks  on  civilians  and  the  massacres  have 
been  a  trademark  of  the  Armenian  State’s  foreign 
policy.  Very  recently,  the  Ministry  of  Defence  of 
Armenia  claimed  that  captured  Azerbaijani  civilians 
were saboteurs and criminals and could be considered 
prisoners  of  war.  He  stated  that  they  had  committed 
crimes under Armenian law and that they would answer 
for that pursuant to the requirements of “our laws and 
international norms”. That statement by a high-ranking 
Armenian  official  is  yet  further  proof  of  Armenia’s 
direct  military  involvement  in  the  conflict  and  of  the 
fact  that  the  illegal  separatist  regime  established  in 
the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan  is  under  direct 
military  command  and  control  by  Armenia’s  armed 
forces.  Those  civilians  cannot  possibly  be  prosecuted 
under  Armenian  laws,  because  they  were  on  the 
internationally  recognized  territory  of  Azerbaijan, 
which is not under the jurisdiction of Armenian laws.
It  was  also  interesting  and  surprising  to  hear 
about  the  pace  of  development  and  the  human  rights 
situation  in  Azerbaijan.  Armenia,  a  country  with  no 
particularly stellar record in the area of human rights, 
economic development or tolerance, has the insolence 
to  charcterize  the  development  of  Azerbaijan,  behind 
which  it  lags  in  many  areas  and  which  has  been 
recognized in terms of human development and global 
competitiveness, to mention just a few.
Indeed, Armenia seems to be lost in the face of the 
need  to  choose  how  to  justify  its  deliberate  policy  to 
operate  consistently  outside  international  law,  while 
at the same time portraying itself as an eternal victim. 
While  continuing  to  deny  its  involvement  and  role  in 
the conflict, the Government of Armenia openly claims 
its ownership over the Nagorno Karabakh region of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan and claims “to act as a guarantor 
of the security of the Nagorno Karabakh”. With regard 
to the question of Armenia providing guarantees and the 
country’s national security strategy of 7 February 2007, 
no explanation is provided as to how those guarantees, 
which affect a portion of Azerbaijan’s territory, fit into 
international law.
It  is  equally  surprising  to  hear  that  Armenia  is 
astonished  by  the  attention  or  attitude  of  Azerbaijani 
society  to  Armenia.  By  attacking  the  Azerbaijani 
community in Armenia, they were perpetrating acts of 
aggression against Azerbaijan.
The expectation that Armenia can be friends with 
Azerbaijan  while  it  continues  to  occupy  Azerbaijani 
land  also  goes  against  conventional  logic.  Armenia’s 
proclaimed  love  of  peace  and  its  aspiration  to  have 
friendly  relations  with  all  countries  of  the  region, 
including Azerbaijan, have no weight or value against 
the background of its policy of territorial expansionism 
and annexation even at the expense of the security and 
welfare of its own population. In an attempt to defend 
30/32 
14-55113
26/09/2014 
A/69/PV.14
the indefensible in the Nagorno Karabakh war, Armenia 
has  become  a  homeland  that  cannot  sustain  its  own 
population,  which  is  manifested  in  an  unprecedented 
emigration  from  Armenia,  low  natural  growth  rates, 
rising  poverty,  heavy  dependence  on  foreign  aid  and 
other  development  challenges,  all  of  which  is  well 
documented in reports of international organizations.
Let  us  therefore  not  make  reference  to  some 
pro-Armenian articles and then ask people not to scroll 
up  the  screen  in  their  browsers  to  see  what  is  being 
said  in  the  Azerbaijani  media.  If  we  are  inviting  the 
international  community  to  look  up  the  facts,  let  us 
look at them and face them. There has been aggression. 
There is occupation in Nagorno Karabakh and in seven 
other adjacent districts of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Clearly, there are many things the Armenian leadership 
should learn, including how to promote peace, security 
and better standards of living for its own population.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I will not touch upon the 
Security Council resolutions issues, which were clearly 
articulated  and  well  explained  by  my  President  two 
days ago in his statement delivered during the general 
debate in this Hall (see A/69/PV.6).
Believe  me,  there  is  no  logic  when  somebody 
grants  that  the  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh  voted 
for  independence  and  that  the  Azerbaijani  authorities 
unleashed  war  on  them,  leading  to  the  massacre  of 
Armenian populations in Baku, Sungai and Kirovabad, 
but  then  insists  that  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  people 
themselves  or  the  Armenians  are  the  aggressors.  The 
Nagorno Karabakh people have clearly expressed their 
legal, constitutional right to do whatever they want and 
to have the status they want. Any military response to 
that must be called aggression.
I would also like to remind the Assembly that, while 
the  Armenians  might  be  the  minority  in  Azerbaijan, 
they  comprise  the  majority  in  Nagorno  Karabakh. 
As I said earlier, by the time that Azerbaijan become 
independent from the Soviet Union, Nagorno Karabakh 
was already not part of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan  also  should  have  thought  twice  before 
unleashing war on Nagorno Karabakh, because doing 
so inevitably resulted in the loss of the seven adjacent 
regions,  which  came  under  the  control  of  Nagorno 
Karabakh.  They  are  probably  forgetting  the  fact  that 
the  continued  shelling  and  bombardment  from  the 
Azerbaijani  territories  was  targeted  at  the  civilian 
population of the cities, towns and villages of Nagorno 
Karabakh,  where  people  lived  and  had  to  hide  in 
basements  in  order  to  escape  that  bombardment.  It  is 
a big question why Azerbaijan would bombard people 
who were peacefully living in what Azerbaijan claimed 
was Azerbaijan. It did not make sense to bombard them 
at all. But because they did it, it resulted in the loss of 
the territories. Unfortunately, those are the rules of war.
Armenia  has  also  had  refugees.  They  were 
mentioned previously by my Azerbaijani colleague, but 
not until today. Armenia, with its limited resources, has 
done everything to naturalize and find jobs and homes 
for the entire refugee population of Armenia. We have 
accepted  about  600,000  refugees  in  our  country.  I 
am surprised to see that, as of today, one out of eight 
Azerbaijanis is a refugee in what is an oil-rich country.
Azerbaijan has used the tactic of “the best defence 
is a good offence”, hoping that it could blame everybody 
else  for  what  the  world  condemns  them  for.  To  cut  a 
long reply short, I will summarize that no Azerbaijani, 
especially  no  Azerbaijani  official,  has  any  historical, 
moral  or  legal  right  to  tell  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
Republic  and  the  people  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
Republic how to live and how independent to be.
Ms.  Mammadova  (Azerbaijan):  I  would  like  to 
make just a few remarks.
The assertion that Nagorno Karabakh is independent 
is  yet  another  outright  lie.  Armenia  was,  and  still  is, 
directly responsible for the creation of the subordinate 
puppet  regime  there.  Its  State  policy  of  consolidating 
the  consequences  of  the  occupation  include,  but  are 
certainly  not  limited  to,  providing  political,  military, 
economic and financial means to the separatist regime, 
without which it could hardly survive.
The popularity of the idea of the so-called quest for 
self-determination among the Armenian leadership and 
society at large is also genuinely puzzling. By holding 
such  a  view,  Armenia  seeks  to  legitimize  unilateral 
secession,  the  use  of  force  with  annexation  of  part  of 
the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  and  the 
expulsion  and  ethnic  cleansing  on  a  massive  scale 
committed  against  the  Azerbaijani  population  and  all 
non-Armenian minorities.
As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  Armenian  political  and 
military  leadership  aided  large-scale  expulsions  and 
ethnic cleansing to create a unique mono-ethnic culture, 
both  in  the  occupied  territories  of  the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan and in Armenia. That fact alone has been a 
matter of concern for many international organizations, 
14-55113
31/32
A/69/PV.14 
26/09/2014
including  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council 
of  Europe.  The  idea  of  the  ethnic  incompatibility  of 
Azerbaijanis  and  Armenians  has  been  promoted  by 
Armenia’s  leadership,  including  its  former  President 
Robert Kocharyan in his notorious statement in 2002 at 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly.  By  contrast,  Azerbaijan 
is united in its diversity and proud to be distinguished 
for  the  culture  of  religious  and  ethnic  tolerance  that 
prevails in its society.
It  is  also  surprising  to  hear  comments  on  moral 
and  legal  obligations  and  then  hear  about  Armenia’s 
commitment  to  those  principles,  when  the  incumbent 
President  of  Armenia  has  openly  acknowledged  its 
involvement  in  seizing  Azerbaijani  lands.  He  has 
clearly  stated  that  he  has  no  regrets  about  the  deaths 
of  hundreds  of  civilians  in  the  town  of  Khojaly  in 
Azerbaijan.  I  believe  that  when  the  Head  of  State 
takes pride in his involvement in atrocities, no further 
comment is needed.
The meeting rose at 9.50 p.m.
32/32 
14-55113
