United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
19th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 September 2014, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Gata Mavita 
wa  Lufuta  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Jamal Abdullah Al-Sallal, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Yemen.
Mr.  Al-Sallal  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  on  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  Yemen,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  his  brotherly  country, 
Uganda,  on  his  election  to  lead  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth  session.  We  fully  trust  that,  thanks  to  his 
able leadership, the work of the Assembly during this 
session will come to a fruitful conclusion, and we wish 
him  every  success  in  that  endeavour.  We  would  also 
like to express our appreciation for the skilful manner 
in which his predecessor, Mr. John Ashe, led the work 
of the Assembly at its previous session. In addition, I 
would like to welcome the tireless and mighty efforts 
being  undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  to  manage  this  Organization  in  accordance 
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations, which focuses on the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  We  thank  him  for 
his  commendable  and  special  efforts  to  support  the 
political process in Yemen.
I would like to highlight a happy coincidence. This 
general debate is taking place at a time when Yemen is 
observing the anniversary of its two glorious revolutions 
of  September  and  October.  Those  events  were  very 
important occasions for us, and I would like, therefore, 
to  congratulate,  from  this  rostrum,  the  valiant  people 
of Yemen and commend them on their resolve and the 
sacrifices that they have made to achieve freedom and 
to put an end to oppression, injustice and despotism. In 
addition,  I  would  commend  our  people  on  the  efforts 
for change that they have been undertaking wisely and 
patiently for 50 years now.
Since  the  beginning  of  2011,  Yemen  has  taken 
measures  to  effect  change  and  address  the  successive 
political and economic crises that arose owing to a lack 
of political prospects. Those crises all but ravaged our 
country and led it to the brink of civil war and chaos. 
They have also had very negative repercussions at the 
political,  economic,  security  and  humanitarian  levels 
in  Yemen.  The  Yemeni  people  realized  that  the  best 
way to put an end to those crises was through national 
dialogue.
I would like, therefore, once again to thank all of 
those who provided their support to the people of Yemen 
and to a political settlement of the situation in Yemen, 
in  particular  through  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
(GCC)  Initiative  and  the  Implementation  Mechanism. 
I  would  like  to  thank  Saudi  Arabia,  in  particular  the 
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin 
Abdulaziz Al-Saud. I thank the GCC and its Secretary 
General, Mr. Al Zayani. I would also like to thank the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations and his Special 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55191 (E)
*1455191*
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
Adviser on Yemen, Mr. Benomar. In addition, I thank 
the members of the Security Council for their support 
for  the  righteous  political  process  in  Yemen.  I  thank 
the League of Arab States, the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation, the European Union and all the countries 
and  international  organizations  and  institutions  that 
have supported my country.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  mention  the 
exceptional  and  historic  visit  of  the  Security  Council 
to Sana’a on 27 January 2013. That visit was a strong 
signal of support from the international community to 
Yemen  and  to  its  extraordinary  peaceful  transition  of 
power through political dialogue and on the basis of the 
GCC Initiative, the Implementation Mechanism and the 
road map seeking to put an end to the crisis and steer 
Yemen in the safe and right direction. We must also not 
forget the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 
namely  resolutions  2014  (2011),  2051  (2012)  and  2140 
(2014). They have lent political weight to the work of 
the United Nations on the political process in Yemen.
Nor  should  we  forget  the  periodic  reports  of  the 
Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. Benomar, 
on  the  progress  in  the  political  situation  and  the 
challenges that Yemen has been facing. Those reports 
have  played  a  very  important  role,  because  they  have 
sent a message to all political parties in Yemen that are 
trying to stall the political process; it is a message that 
says  that  we  will  not  let  anybody  threaten  the  unity, 
security and stability of Yemen, with all of the resulting  
implications for international peace and security.
I would also like to commend President Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  who  has  shown  great 
perseverance  in  rebuilding  a  new  federal  Yemen  on 
the  basis  of  Yemen’s  inclusive  National  Dialogue 
Conference. Yemen signed the Gulf Initiative for Yemen 
and thereby began the transition process. We were able 
to achieve the goals set for the first stage of transition. 
A Government of National Reconciliation was formed, 
a military affairs committee was established, and early 
presidential elections were organized.
We then began the second stage of the transitional 
process.  Among  the  most  important  achievements 
of  that  phase  was  the  National  Dialogue  Conference, 
which took place on 28 January 2014. In addition, we 
have  set  up  a  drafting  committee  for  a  constitution. 
That  committee  is  about  to  submit  its  first  draft  of 
the new constitution. After the draft’s adoption, there 
will be a referendum on it. Furthermore, the Supreme 
Commission for Elections and Referendum has created 
an  electronic  register  for  the  purpose  of  registering 
voters.
We  have  made  notable  progress  in  the  political 
process.  However,  Yemen  still  faces  great  challenges 
that have nearly destroyed the country and are trying 
to bring it back to square one. We would cite, inter alia, 
the many dangerous events that occurred in Yemen as 
a  result  of  the  recent  political  and  military  escalation 
provoked  by  the  Ansar  Allah  group,  which  besieged 
the  capital,  Sana’a,  despite  the  decision  taken  by  the 
Yemeni  people  at  the  inclusive  National  Dialogue 
Conference  no  longer  to  use  weapons  or  violence  to 
settle their political differences.
The Government undertook to deal with the issue 
of  escalation  wisely  and  patiently,  because  our  nation 
can  no  longer  bear  to  put  up  with  conflict.  Indeed, 
the  citizens  of  Yemen  are  buckling  under  the  burden 
resulting  from  successive  financial  crises.  All  of  our 
people  aspire  to  peace  and  stability.  A  great  many 
political efforts have been undertaken to end the crisis, 
which  led  to  the  signing  of  the  Peace  and  National 
Partnership  Agreement.  However,  the  Ansar  Allah 
group  chose  military  means,  attacking  institutions  of 
the State, looting and pillaging them as well as private 
homes.
The  militia  entered  our  capital,  Sana’a,  where 
it  remains.  The  success  of  the  terrorist  groups  is  the 
result  of  political  support  and  logistical  coordination 
provided  by  members  of  the  former  regime.  But  we 
took  a  political  approach  based  on  conciliation  and 
made further political efforts leading to the signing a 
few days ago of a new security annex to the Agreement 
in order to maintain social cohesion, so that our people 
can devote their efforts to the political process and to 
implementing the final stages of a critical turning point 
in our national life.
All political parties in Yemen need to undertake to 
uphold the commitments in the Agreement. In addition, 
the  international  community  needs  to  continue  to 
provide  its  political  support  and  economic  assistance 
to Yemen. We also need for strong and firm positions 
to  be  taken  by  the  Security  Council,  condemning  all 
parties  that  seek  to  undermine  the  political  process. 
The  international  community  has  condemned  the 
events referred to and has called on the Yemeni parties 
to respect the commitments and pledges made during 
the National Dialogue Conference.
2/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
It should be noted that Yemen is also dealing with 
major  economic  challenges,  including  a  scarcity  of 
resources,  an  increase  in  unemployment  and  poverty 
and  growing  budgetary  deficits.  In  addition,  Yemen 
is  experiencing  a  humanitarian  crisis  that  cannot  be 
overlooked,  because  half  of  our  population,  namely, 
14.7  million  people,  need  some  form  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  Moreover,  Yemen  is  currently  hosting 
around a million refugees from countries of the Horn 
of Africa.
We have an annual humanitarian response plan in 
Yemen,  but  the  plan  has  not  mobilized  the  necessary 
support. The international community knows, however, 
that, if the humanitarian situation worsens further, that 
will  have  an  impact  on  the  political  process.  In  the 
face  of  the  very  difficult  economic  and  humanitarian 
context that has nearly destroyed our national economy, 
the  Government  of  national  reconciliation  took  the 
decision to amend the price of oil derivatives, adopted 
a set of austerity measures and fiscal and tax reforms, 
and agreed to provide social security coverage to more 
250,000 people. We have also put the final touches on 
an  electronic  human-resources  management  system 
for  police  and  army  personnel.  We  are  also  working 
progressively in the area of agriculture and fisheries.
Undoubtedly,  Yemen  expects  a  great  deal  from 
its  fraternal  and  friendly  neighbouring  countries  at 
this  very  difficult  time.  We  need  economic  support 
commensurate with the challenges that we are facing. 
That  support  could  reduce  the  costs  associated  with 
the economic reforms that we will be launching in the 
future.
Yemen  has  seen  an  improvement  in  the  security 
situation  in  our  country.  We  have  taken  steps  to 
restructure our armed forces and police. However, the 
security  situation  in  Yemen  is  still  rather  fragile  and 
is  an  obstacle  preventing  the  success  of  our  political 
processes  and  economic  growth.  Yemen  has  been 
affected by the scourge of terrorism, which has spared 
no  nationality,  sect  or  religion.  That  terrorism  is  not 
only  threatening  Yemen  currently  but  the  region  and 
the entire world. We have played a pioneering role in 
striving  to  thwart  a  scourge  that  has  embedded  itself 
into  the  lives  and  traditions  of  our  people  and  of  the 
people of all the countries of our region and the world. 
The number of non-Yemenite elements in those terrorist 
groups is 70 per cent.
The  international  community  needs  to  tighten  its 
ranks to help Yemen to combat the scourge. We need 
support  from  the  international  community  to  combat 
terrorism  in  the  Pacific  region  and  the  Arabian  Gulf, 
which  is  a  window  open  to  the  entire  world.  We  are 
seeking  to  continue  our  efforts  very  actively,  and 
we  will  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  that  our  countries 
continue to go in the right direction and to put an end to 
all bastions of terrorism, to polarization and hegemony, 
because all peoples aspire to a safe, stable life, within a 
climate marked by justice and partnership, legality and 
freedom.  In  order  to  combat  the  security  challenges, 
we  need  support  from  friendly  countries  as  part  of 
efforts to combat terrorism. We also need cooperation 
in  logistics,  training  and  capacity-building,  because 
Yemen’s  stability  will  have  a  positive  impact  on  the 
region and the entire world.
Despite  the  challenges  that  Yemen  is  facing 
economically and politically and in terms of security, 
we  have  not  been  sheltered  from  the  other  crises  that 
the world is facing. We have closely followed all of the 
suffering  the  world  over,  but  particularly  that  of  the 
Palestinian people, who have been killed and mutilated, 
with the infrastructure in their country being destroyed 
and  new  lethal  weapons  being  used  to  commit  new, 
barbarous crimes that have cost the lives of thousands 
of martyrs and caused thousands of injuries.
international  community  must 
therefore 
condemn the war crimes and crimes against humanity 
being  committed  against  innocent  civilians.  It  should 
make  the  occupying  Power  resume  the  peace  process 
with  the  goal  of  achieving  a  just,  comprehensive  and 
lasting peace that respects the decisions of international 
law  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  We  would  like  to 
reaffirm our full solidarity with the Palestinian people 
in their efforts to see the restoration of the rights that 
have been stolen from them, including their independent 
State, with Jerusalem as its capital.
The 
The ongoing cycle of violence in sisterly Syria is a 
source of concern, since it continues to destabilize and 
damage  the  entire  region.  Furthermore,  some  armed 
terrorist  groups  are  exploiting  the  serious  situation 
there.  That  is  a  large-scale  challenge  that  demands 
that  we  all  work  together  to  find  solutions,  as  fast  as 
possible,  in  order  to  promote  the  aspirations  of  the 
Syrian people in peace and stability, while maintaining 
Syria’s unity and territorial integrity.
In  Iraq,  we  are  seeing  the  activities  of  Daesh, 
which  is  perpetrating  crimes  against  the  population 
irrespective of their religious and ethnic backgrounds. 
That is extremely worrying, because such groups and 
14-55191
3/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
organizations are simply interested in acquiring greater 
power. They have nothing to do with the tolerant Islamic 
religion  or  the  values  of  the  Muslim  community  as  a 
whole, which respects all the rights of others.
The  events  and  conflicts  we  are  seeing  around 
the  world  highlight  the  challenges  facing  the  United 
Nations.  We  must  work  to  reform  it  so  that  it  is  able 
to  settle  conflicts  and  maintain  international  peace 
and  security.  I  therefore  urge  that  the  Arab  States 
be  given  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council, 
since the region figures so prominently in the work of 
international peace and security.
The  issue  of  the  control  of  nuclear  weapons  is 
urgent,  since  nuclear  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction are a huge threat to the peace and security 
of the whole world. We therefore deplore the fact that 
the  conference  on  establishing  the  Middle  East  as  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone has been repeatedly delayed, 
despite  the  efforts  and  flexibility  shown  by  Arab 
countries to convene it. We call on the great Powers to 
assume their responsibility to put pressure on Israel and 
the other parties that are preventing the convening of a 
conference, whereby they are creating obstacles to the 
restoration of peace and security in the Middle East and 
laying the ground for an alarming arms race, which will 
undoubtedly have negative effects.
In conclusion, I would once again like to thank the 
President and the Secretary-General. We hope that the 
work of this session will be successful and will help to 
meet the hopes and aspirations of our peoples to live in 
peace and stability and lead a decent life.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohlabi  Kenneth  Tsekoa, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Relations 
of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
Mr.  Tsekoa  (Lesotho):  I  would  first  like  to 
congratulate  President  Kutesa  on  his  well-deserved 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  His  distinguished  career 
as  a  diplomat  and  leader  assures  us  of  a  successful 
session. I would also like to commend his predecessor, 
Ambassador John Ashe, for his remarkable leadership 
during the previous session.
Over the 69 years of its existence, the United Nations 
has witnessed several changes in the configuration of 
international  relations.  Some  were  traumatic,  others 
benign.  The  survival  of  the  Organization  through 
all  those  tribulations  testifies  to  its  resilience  and 
the  enduring  validity  of  its  mission.  Today  it  is  still 
confronted  by  serious  challenges.  The  continuous 
eruption  of  armed  conflicts  throughout  the  world, 
terrorism,  climate  change,  disease  and  the  lingering 
effects  of  the  economic  and  financial  crises  are  only 
some  of  the  challenges  that  have  remained  in  the 
foreground  of  international  relations  and  preoccupied 
the international community.
From  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  across  the  Sahel 
region,  to  the  Republic  of  Kenya  and  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the continent of Africa is facing 
a  rise  in  terrorism.  The  Nigeria-based  Boko  Haram, 
Al-Qaida  in  the  Islamic  Maghreb  and  Al-Shabaab  in 
Somalia continue to pose serious threats to the peace 
and  security  of  the  continent.  The  emergence  in  the 
Middle East and elsewhere of new extremist groups and 
terrorist entities, such as the Islamic State in Iraq and 
Syria,  has  not  only  further  compounded  the  problem 
but  is  a  stark  reminder  that  we  must  act  collectively 
to  discharge  the  moral  responsibility  resting  on  us  to 
ensure that people everywhere enjoy the right to peace, 
development and the sanctity of life.
The  use  of  military  force  alone  as  a  strategy  for 
combating  terrorism  is  no  longer  a  panacea  for  that 
menace.  Terrorism  requires  a  holistic  approach  that 
addresses the root causes of the scourge. The resolution 
of international disputes based on dialogue, justice and 
the  equality  of  all  States  must  be  at  the  heart  of  that 
strategy if it is to succeed.
impunity  and 
The  recurring  bloody  conflict  between  Israel  and 
Palestine continues to weigh heavily on the conscience 
of all humankind. Recent developments in that region 
have  cast  a  shadow  on  the  future  that  had  seemed 
to  hold  out  the  promise  of  a  negotiated  settlement. 
Unprecedented 
the  disproportionate 
use of force by the parties involved call into question 
our  very  claim  to  be  a  civilization.  Turning  United 
Nations  shelters  into  combat  zones  and  killing  the 
innocent children, men and women who take refuge in 
them is a shameful act that must be condemned in the 
strongest  terms  possible.  Lesotho  endorses  the  recent 
Human  Rights  Council  resolution  S-21/1,  demanding 
that the massacres of innocent Palestinian civilians be 
investigated  by  an  independent  commission  and  that 
those responsible be held accountable.
Let  us  not  forget  that  in  2005  we  unanimously 
adopted  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to  protect 
(see  resolution  60/1,  paragraphs  138-140)  in  order 
to  safeguard  innocent  civilians  from  war  crimes, 
4/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
genocide, mass atrocities and ethnic cleansing. Indeed, 
the  Security  Council  has  reaffirmed  that  principle  in 
several conflicts around the world and in some instances 
has authorized military intervention.
as is the case in Cuba, Palestine and Western Sahara. 
We have to remove those dark spots on the history of 
our time by allowing the letter and spirit of the Charter 
to guide our actions.
Unfortunately,  in  the  case  of  the  slaughter  of 
thousands  of  Palestinian  civilians,  the  Council  has 
shied away from invoking the principle of responsibility 
to  protect.  Instead,  it  took  comfort  in  issuing  a 
presidential  statement  that  glaringly  fails  to  reiterate 
accountability for the war crimes committed. Civilians 
in  Gaza  deserve  the  protection  that  Israelis  in  Tel 
Aviv are afforded under international law. We call on 
Israel — as we have always done in the past — to fully 
comply with its obligations under the relevant Security 
Council and General Assembly resolutions. That is the 
only plausible route to lasting peace.
The world has long come to terms with the dangers 
to  humanity  posed  by  the  possession  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  That  is  why  Lesotho  continues  to 
advocate  for  total  abolition  and  destruction  of  all 
nuclear  weapons.  Those  weapons  have  no  place  in 
modern-day  civilized  society,  hence  the  call  for  a 
convention  to  ban  them  all.  While  working  towards 
that goal, we must emphasize that full compliance with 
the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  is  critical.  By  the  same  token, 
we  call  for  the  establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone 
free of nuclear weapons, in accordance with the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
It is unacceptable that the United Nations of today 
still reflects the 1945 architecture of the world as seen 
by the victors of the Second World War. The reform of 
the United Nations, including the Security Council, can 
no longer be delayed. A reformed, transparent and more 
democratic United Nations is necessary for preserving 
international  peace  and  security  and  for  confronting 
the challenges of development. All Member States need 
to  garner  the  necessary  political  will  to  advance  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  Let  us  make  the  sixth-ninth  session  one  for 
decisive action.
The representatives who gathered in San Francisco 
to finalize the Charter of the United Nations dreamed of 
a world of peace and shared prosperity. They renounced 
a vision of a world in which some unilaterally imposed 
economic  sanctions  and  financial  blockades  against 
others, or one in which peoples were denied their right 
to self-determination or were subjected to occupation, 
The 
theme  chosen 
for  our  general  debate, 
“Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015  development  agenda”,  could  not  be  more 
relevant  at  the  current  international  juncture.  The 
road  towards  the  achievement  of  all  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) has been rough, with some 
countries reporting relative success in reducing poverty 
and  hunger,  markedly  increasing  school  enrolment, 
reducing  child  mortality,  improving  maternal  health 
and  combating  HIV/AIDS.  However,  the  challenges 
remain most daunting in the least developed countries, 
landlocked  developing  countries,  some  small  island 
developing States and countries in, or emerging from, 
conflict.
For  our  part,  in  Lesotho  we  have  made  some 
progress  towards  achieving  at  least  two  of  the  eight 
MDGs,  namely,  universal  primary  education,  and 
promoting  gender  equality  and  empowering  women. 
We still face a long and uphill journey to reach a life 
of  dignity  for  all.  HIV  and  AIDS  still  pose  a  serious 
threat to us. The untold miseries brought about by that 
scourge are known to all of us. Africa is more vulnerable 
to  that  threat  because  of  the  worsening  poverty  and 
unemployment. Sadly, new, incurable pandemics such 
as Ebola have emerged, wreaking havoc in sister African 
countries and overwhelming their health systems. The 
world must mobilize resources and energy to help the 
affected  countries  of  West  Africa  fight  the  pandemic 
and to abolish it in the long term.
Our  quest  to  pursue  a  sustainable  future  for 
all  must  never  wane  as  we  step  into  the  new  era  and 
embark on the road map of the post-2015 development 
agenda.  We  need  to  formulate  a  new  set  of  universal 
sustainable  development  goals  that  are  concise  and 
strong with regard to the means of implementation. It is 
important to emphasize national ownership and respect 
for  national  conditions  in  each  Member  State  and  to 
take advantage of global diversity so that we can attain 
our development aspirations.
As we continue with intergovernmental discussions 
leading  up  to  the  Third  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  which  will  be  held 
in  Addis  Ababa  in  July  2015,  we  must  be  guided  by 
the  spirit  of  frankness  and  mutual  understanding, 
that  often  characterizes 
without 
the  acrimony 
14-55191
5/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
our  intergovernmental  deliberations.  It  is  equally 
important to emphasize that advancing the rule of law 
at the national and international levels is essential for 
realizing sustainable development, eradicating poverty 
and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
Lesotho is by no means an exception in that regard.
A  few  days  ago,  the  Climate  Summit  provided 
us  with  an  opportunity  once  again  to  reaffirm  our 
collective  resolve  to  implement  measures  that  can 
significantly address climate change. We disagreed for 
far too long, until we were confronted by the glaring and 
compelling  scientific  evidence  that  the  link  between 
global  warming  and  human  activity  is  indisputable. 
Sadly, catastrophes have begun to hit, mostly affecting 
the poorest and most vulnerable countries.
My country is one of the worst affected by climate 
change.  In  recent  years,  Lesotho  has  faced  unsettling 
development  challenges  due  to  the  effects  of  climate 
change.  The  effects  of  increasing  extreme  weather 
patterns  such  as  early  frost,  droughts,  desertification 
and degradation of arable land compound the challenges 
that we are already facing. Livelihoods of societies are 
stifled, and economies and ways of life are negatively 
affected.
While we appreciate that there are resources aimed 
at  helping  developing  countries  to  mitigate  and  adapt 
to  the  impacts  of  climate  change,  we  are  concerned 
that  such  funds  are  difficult  to  access.  The  global 
climate-finance architecture is complex, with variable 
structures of governance and modalities. Some finance 
is channelled through multilateral agencies, sometimes 
even  outside  the  funding  mechanisms  of  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
and  some 
through  bilateral  development- 
assistance  institutions,  thereby  making  coordination 
very  difficult.  Lesotho  calls  on  the  international 
community  and  our  development  partners  to  simplify 
the accessibility of funds earmarked for climate change 
initiatives if we are to make an impact on the ground.
flows 
In conclusion, let me point out that the regime of the 
Charter of the United Nations has so far done its part in 
preventing a third world war, thereby fulfilling one of 
the dreams of the architects of our beloved Organization. 
The continued success and the relevance of the United 
Nations  in  the  new  millennium  will  depend,  in  large 
measure, on its capacity for self-renewal in readiness to 
meet modern-day challenges.
We,  the  United  Nations,  should  continue  to  be 
the  voice  of  the  voiceless  and  the  best  hope  for  all 
humankind. Now is the time for leaders everywhere to 
join  the  race  for  transformative  action  that  can  drive 
peace, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule 
of law, human dignity, economic competitiveness and 
sustainable  prosperity  for  all.  Lesotho  will  and  must 
continue  to  be  a  persistent  and  resilient  part  of  that 
initiative.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Paul  Adam,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Seychelles.
Mr. Adam (Seychelles): It gives me great pleasure 
to begin this address with warm congratulations to His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I 
also wish to congratulate His Excellency Mr. John Ashe 
on his inspiring leadership of the Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session.
This year, we marked the 100th anniversary of the 
First  World  War.  Our  forefathers  in  1918  called  that 
War the war to end all wars, because they knew, as we 
know today, that no society can aspire to development 
and  a  better  way  of  life  without  peace.  At  that  time, 
many Seychellois people gave their lives to defend that 
ideal. Despite being one of the smallest nations in the 
world, geographically far removed from the centres of 
power and of conflict, our people have always known 
that we cannot be at peace if the world is not at peace. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  salute  those  who  made  the 
ultimate sacrifice in those turbulent times of 1914 and 
those islanders who showed that no matter how small 
we may be, we can make a meaningful contribution.
However,  the  turbulent  events  that  have  unfolded 
before our eyes during the course of 2014 have shown 
very clearly that the world is not at peace. The heinous 
and  murderous  acts  of  global  terrorist  activities  in 
recent weeks remind us of the increasing threat posed 
by terrorism and of the pain that it brings to innocent 
victims.  That  is  coupled  with  a  multiplication  of 
regional conflicts and instability within States.
In  order  to  build  peace,  we  must  reinforce  our 
commitment  to  multilateralism  through  the  United 
Nations, while also ensuring that we accord the highest 
priority  to  more  inclusive  and  effective  development. 
In that context, I commend the President for placing the 
discussion in this year’s general debate under the banner 
of  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
6/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
post-2015  development  agenda”.  Seychelles 
takes 
pride  in  having  achieved  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  continues  to  impart  greater 
impetus  to  ensure  that  the  remaining  challenges  are 
effectively dealt with by 2015.
For  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS),  the 
sustainable  development  goals  are  essential  to  allow 
for the implementation of development transformation. 
We  must  recognize  that  the  current  development 
framework of the majority of development institutions 
is still not favourable to the development of SIDS. Most 
development gains are still assessed ultimately through 
gross domestic product (GDP) per capita measurements, 
which do not adequately identify the threats to human 
development or the opportunities that exist, especially 
for small island States.
Seychelles  warmly  welcomes  the  outcomes  of 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States, held in Apia, and would particularly 
like to thank the Government and people of Samoa for 
their leadership in establishing a platform for action to 
support the development of SIDS.
Seychelles has championed three priorities that are 
outcomes of that conference. The first is the need for a 
vulnerability index to be used as a more effective tool 
for  addressing  the  development  needs  of  SIDS  than 
GDP per capita. The second is the need to address the 
debilitating debt of SIDS through innovations, such as 
debt  for  climate  change  adaptation  swaps.  The  third 
priority  is  the  need  to  build  opportunities  for  SIDS 
on  the  basis  of  their  strengths,  not  their  weaknesses; 
hence,  the  need  to  support  a  blue  economy  approach, 
whereby SIDS can better utilize their oceanic potential 
and whereby we can be large-ocean nations.
Those  three  priorities  are  not  specific  only  to 
SIDS.  The  development  challenges  of  SIDS  highlight 
the  deficiencies  of  the  development  framework  for 
all  developing  nations.  A  vulnerability  index  allows 
us  to  target  those  areas  that  place  our  societies  at 
risk.  An  effective  vulnerability  index  adopted  by 
the  United  Nations  will  allow  us  to  better  target  the 
diverse  needs  of  SIDS,  least  developed  countries  and 
landlocked  countries,  as  well  as  States  threatened  by 
desertification or those most prone to natural disasters. 
It is an inclusive view of development.
Ownership  of  the  blue  economy  also  widens 
development  perspectives  for  our  whole  planet.  It  is 
high  time  that  we  realize  the  immense  potential  of 
our oceans. We cannot apply the principles of a green 
economy  and  of  sustainable  development  without 
recognizing that we are applying them in a blue world, 
for over 70 per cent of our planet is covered by oceans 
and seas. For developing nations, the ocean is a shared 
opportunity.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  address 
our  oceans,  and  the  challenges  therein  appropriately, 
through a stand-alone sustainable development goal on 
oceans.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The  right  to  development  belongs  to  us  all.  True 
development  is  therefore  not  only  about  economic 
growth  or  the  total  wealth  that  a  country  can  create. 
It is about the constant improvement that we need for 
the well-being of people. It is about being able to build 
a future for our children based on shared opportunity. 
In  that  vein,  I  reiterate  the  call  that  the  international 
community not spare any effort in helping the nations 
of West Africa to overcome the Ebola pandemic, which 
is  a  health  issue  of  international  concern.  Ensuring 
that the affected communities have access to the right 
medical support will save lives not only in West Africa 
but  across  the  world.  Ebola  is  not  just  an  African 
problem. It is a global problem.
We also remain preoccupied by the conclusions of 
the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change.  That  is  why  SIDS  have 
continuously  underlined  the  scientific  research  being 
conducted  on  climate  change,  which  shows  that  a 
warming  of  even  1.5°C  will  have  a  negative  impact 
on  all  countries,  even  if  islands  are  on  the  front  line.   
However, the science also tells us that we still have a 
window where we can act decisively and effectively.
A legally binding agreement that sets a course for 
increases  of  no  more  than  2°C  is  achievable,  but  all 
countries, large or small, must make it happen. It is not a 
subject that we can leave aside to take up later, to debate 
at  a  later  date.  We  call  on  all  partners  to  ensure  that 
the upcoming Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
which will meet in Lima, sets the stage for concluding 
a meaningful and legally binding agreement in Paris in 
2015.
I  would  also  like  to  reiterate  the  importance 
of 
fulfilling  commitments 
jointly  mobilize 
over  $100  billion  annually  by  2020  for  the  full 
operationalization  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  which 
to 
14-55191
7/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
should  be  capitalized  as  soon  as  possible.  I  also 
underline  the  importance  of  ensuring  that  the  most 
vulnerable,  in  particular  SIDS  and  African  nations, 
have  access  to  the  appropriate  resources  as  quickly 
as possible. Further, we call for SIDS to be part of the 
decision-makers on issues of climate change and to be 
allocated a permanent seat on the Executive Committee 
of  the  Warsaw  International  Mechanism  for  Loss  and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts.
Seychelles  will  also  continue  to  advocate  for  a 
solution to the debt trap in which many of us, especially 
SIDS,  find  ourselves.  A  solution  that  Seychelles 
has  brought  forward  in  partnership  with  the  Nature 
Conservancy,  an 
international  non-governmental 
organization, 
is  proposals  for  debt-for-adaptation 
swaps. SIDS are often constrained in their development 
because  of  large  debt-to-GDP  ratios.  Transferring 
that  debt  into  climate  change  adaptation  projects 
will  address  the  SIDS  need  for  greater  flexibility  in 
addressing  their  development  challenges  while  also 
making  a  real  impact  in  terms  of  building  climate 
change  resilience  by  creating  marine  protected  areas, 
not  only  locally,  but  globally.  That  concept  will  also 
allow for the application of climate change funding in 
order to achieve leverage for adaptation projects while 
reducing financial barriers for small island developing 
States.
(spoke in French)
Faced with the challenges of security, transnational 
crime  and  extremism,  the  United  Nations  requires 
significant  reform  and  must  rise  above  its  divisions 
to help build a world in which human beings can live, 
wherever they are, in dignity and free from want and 
fear. More than ever, it is necessary to encourage the 
search  for  collective  solutions  to  address  all  sorts  of 
phenomenon that undermine the balance of our world.
That  is  the  sense  that  guides  every  action  of 
my  country.  Seychelles  is  indeed  ready  to  meet  the 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  in  a  spirit  of 
openness  and  dialogue  with  all  peoples,  for  a  world 
of  peace  and  human  brotherhood.  We  are  working  in 
Africa, particularly in the Indian Ocean, with a view to 
the region becoming one of shared peaceful, democratic 
and prosperous development.
The Indian Ocean region is grateful to the United 
Nations,  and  the  Seychelles  once  again  thanks  its 
specialized agencies, as well as our various partners, for 
the invaluable role each one has played and still plays in 
the fight against maritime piracy, which has already had 
a deep impact on our development plans. Statistics show 
that today maritime piracy has declined, but that hardly 
indicates  that  that  threat  has  disappeared.  Therefore, 
we must remain vigilant, and we still need the support 
of all to help dispel the profound aftereffects it has left 
for our economy. Over the years, maritime piracy has 
had serious repercussions on fishing, tourism, shipping 
and  port  services.  Seychelles  continues  to  work  in 
harmony with all its partners, since any slackening in 
the face of that unpredictable phenomenon could have 
consequences.
The  Seychelles  is  actively  involved  with  partners 
in  our  region  and  beyond  to  better  target  organizers 
of  cross-border  trafficking  in  the  Indian  Ocean  zone. 
We have established a regional information centre that 
allows better coordination between our region’s forces 
and  also  aims  to  better  manage  the  monitoring  and 
protecting  of  our  shared  maritime  space  against  the 
shared threats, whether piracy, narcotics trafficking or 
illegal fishing.
In  the  same  vein,  the  Seychelles  will  continue  to 
support  the  Security  Council  decision  to  strengthen 
the  United  Nations-African  Union  partnership  in 
Somalia.  It  is  a  difficult  task,  for  which  I  wish  to 
affirm  our  solidarity  with  the  African  and  United 
Nations  staff  involved.  I  take  the  opportunity  to  urge 
the  international  community  to  continue  supporting 
efforts to restore peace and reconciliation in Somalia. 
The  international  community  must  not  lose  patience 
in  view  of  the  mixed  results  achieved  so  far.  For  our 
part, we have taken action bilaterally and with regional 
and multilateral partners to help Somalia strengthen its 
capacities  in  areas  such  as  fisheries  management  and 
development. The United Nations must always show the 
way and inspire the necessary efforts to bring together 
the means necessary in the struggle and to coordinate 
them with the States concerned.
Seychelles  also  expresses  solidarity  with  all 
African  countries  affected  by  conflict  or  instability. 
We are committed to working together so that we can 
build together, in the African Union, the transformative 
Africa that we foresee through our 2063 strategy.
Seychelles, 
like  all  African  countries,  also 
expresses solidarity with the Palestinian people, given 
the challenges of the continuing conflict in the Middle 
East, and we reiterate our wish for peace between the 
two neighbouring States based on the 1967 borders.
8/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
We  also 
take 
the  opportunity 
the 
importance  of  lifting  the  economic  embargo  against 
Cuba, an island country that depends on trade access to 
better support its development, as all island States do.
to  recall 
All those problems and challenges justify the United 
Nations  remaining  the  leaven  of  international  peace 
and  security,  but  also  and  especially  the  conscience 
of  humanity.  Here  I  commend  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his remarkable work at the head 
of  our  Organization  at  a  time  when  human  history  is 
facing enormous challenges. Indeed, much remains to 
be done, but optimism remains, for the helm is in good 
hands. The United Nations will effectively discharge its 
mission if all the nations that gave rise to it, large and 
small, provide it with the necessary means and entrust 
it with the responsibility for carrying out actions in the 
service  of  humanity.  Seychelles,  for  its  part,  remains 
ready to play its role to its full capacity, in this noble 
and exciting mission.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Patrice  Nisbett,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  Homeland  Security,  Labour,  Justice 
and Legal Affairs of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr.  Nisbett  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  It  is  indeed 
an honour for me to address this body for the first time 
since  assuming  the  portfolio  of  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  a  little  over  one  year  ago.  I  take  pleasure  in 
sharing  the  perspectives  of  the  Government  of  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis on matters before the General Assembly 
during its sixty-ninth session.
Allow me to start by congratulating Mr. Kutesa on 
his  election  to  the  office  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, to steer the course of the Assembly during 
this  session.  Indeed,  his  sterling  contribution  in 
his  native  Uganda,  where  he  serves  as  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  and  his  efforts  at  strengthening  the 
African  Union  have  prepared  him  for  the  challenging 
task  of  finalizing  the  development  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
My delegation wishes to commend his predecessor, 
Mr.  John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  for  his 
leadership in presiding over the Assembly at its sixty-
eighth  session.  His  focus  on  the  development  of  the 
sustainable  development  goals  and  other  issues  of 
importance  to  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS) 
and developing countries in particular is worthy of high 
commendation.
implementing  a 
The theme of the sixty-ninth session, “Delivering 
on  and 
transformative  post-2015 
development agenda”, is quite timely as we enter a new 
dispensation that reflects global priorities that were not 
contemplated at the time the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  were  conceptualized  leading  up  to 
the  year  2000.  As  we  work  on  implementing  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  we  must  ensure 
that  the  17  sustainable  development  goals  recently 
formulated are effective in building on the foundation 
laid  by  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  is  my 
delegation’s hope that the agenda as developed will be 
transformative in nature, with a high degree of success 
in  its  overarching  objectives  —  the  eradication  of 
poverty and hunger, and the promotion of sustained and 
inclusive economic growth.
We  are  mindful  that  MDG  8,  which  calls  for  the 
strengthening  of  global  partnerships,  remains  part  of 
the unfinished business of the Millennium Development 
Goals established at the Millennium Summit in 2000. It 
is therefore highly important that we take great care in 
ensuring that the first 16 sustainable development goals 
are buttressed by a robust suite of implementation tools 
that will effectively serve as the catalyst for achieving 
success in the post-2015 development agenda.
My  delegation  can  never  overemphasize 
the 
importance of rendering effective and operational Goal 
17,  which  calls  for  the  strengthening  of  the  means  of 
implementation  and  the  revitalization  of  the  global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development.  We  are 
therefore heartened by the President’s expressed plan to 
convene three high-level thematic debates and one high-
level event geared towards, inter alia, strengthening the 
means of implementation in order to achieve sustainable 
development in its three dimensions.
We  pay  keen  attention  to  the  first  event,  the 
debate  on  the  means  of  implementation.  We  are  of 
the  view  that  achieving  sustainable  development  will 
require mobilization and the effective use of financial 
resources  and  technology  development  and  transfer, 
in  addition  to  capacity-building  at  all  levels.  It  will 
also  entail  increased  investment  in  the  social  sectors, 
infrastructure, 
climate 
financing and the protection of global common goods.
The key question before us in relation to the means 
of  implementation  is  how  we  mobilize  the  significant 
resources  that  will  be  needed  to  turn  the  aspirations 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  into  tangible 
community  development, 
14-55191
9/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
outcomes. I wish to pledge my Government’s support 
in advancing the basic thrust of the President’s tenure. 
A  strengthened  global  partnership  should  foster  close 
collaboration  between  and  among  Governments, 
provide  for  an  increased  role  of  the  private  sector, 
ensure  a  fair  international  trading  regime,  and  foster 
national and foreign direct investments.
My  Government  wishes  to  reiterate  its  firm 
commitment  to  doing  its  part  to  ensure  that  we 
achieve  the  goals  developed  to  sustain  economic  and 
social  development  in  a  manner  that  will  preserve 
the  environment  and  ensure  stable,  safe  and  peaceful 
societies.  Since  our  last  address  to  this  body,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis has solidified its position as a leader in 
the  Caribbean  in  attracting  foreign  direct  investment, 
specifically 
infrastructure,  and 
building its industrial base in the light manufacturing 
sector — electronics and electrical components. We have 
also successfully forged public-private partnerships in 
renewable-energy ventures providing sustained growth 
for our economy.
tourism 
its 
in 
One of the peculiar vulnerabilities of small island 
developing  States  such  as  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is 
our  susceptibility  to  economic  and  external  shocks, 
which  results  in  a  state  of  high  indebtedness.  It  is 
no  secret  that  high  public  debt  affects  the  ability  of 
Governments to achieve sustainable development in all 
its dimensions. In the area of economic sustainability, 
we  developed  in  2011  and  successfully  implemented 
a  comprehensive  approach  to  the  management  of  our 
national  debt.  Our  plan  included  debt  restructuring 
with  international  financial  institutions,  an  exchange 
offer for government bonds, the curtailment of public 
borrowing to sustainable levels and a creative land-for-
debt swap initiative.
I am pleased to report that by the end of June, we 
had successfully reduced the ratio of our debt to gross 
domestic product (GDP) by 50 percentage points, from 
over 145 per cent pre-restructuring to 95 per cent now. 
I am even more pleased to report that our debt-to-GDP 
ratio is projected to decline further, to 85 per cent by the 
end of 2014. In spite of our fiscal discipline, however, 
it is important for us to be mindful of the fact that one 
severe  climate  event  can  erase  the  gains  achieved, 
effectively sending us into a vicious cycle that makes 
it  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  achieve  sustainable 
development on the economic front.
At  this  juncture,  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to 
echo  the  call  for  a  new  paradigm  for  the  assessment 
used in the policy of graduation, which currently uses 
the narrow policy of per capita gross national income 
to  confer  middle-income  and  high-income  status  on 
developing  countries.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  of  the 
view that that measure is grossly inadequate and needs 
to  take  into  account  the  peculiar  vulnerabilities  of 
SIDS.  We  commend  the  Commonwealth  secretariat 
for  the  innovative  work  it  has  been  spearheading  to 
encourage  leading  international  financial  institutions 
to accept a broader matrix, including the vulnerability 
index, to correctly assess the true economic situation of 
SIDS such as Saint Kitts and Nevis.
I  must  emphasize  that  graduation  to  a  higher 
income category makes it difficult to access resources 
to  sustain  our  economic,  social  and  environmental 
policy  objectives.  Borrowing  funds  at  a  high  rate  on 
the international market serves only to perpetuate the 
vicious  cycle  of  debt  and  threatens  our  sustainable 
development.  That  runs  contrary  to  the  goals  and 
objectives  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In 
that connection, I call on the international community, 
including 
financial 
institutions, to broaden the scope of the assessment of 
SIDS  in  order  to  avoid  creating  scenarios  where  debt 
sustainability  measures  undertaken  at  the  national 
level  are  undermined  by  the  policies  of  international 
institutions. Saint Kitts and Nevis stands ready to work 
with  the  international  community  by  contributing  its 
ideas to the debate in order to ensure a most favourable 
outcome.
international 
leading 
the 
My delegation is convinced that a nation’s wealth 
lies in the health of its people — its productive sector. 
We  continue  to  wrestle  with  the  high  incidence  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  in  our  country 
and  region.  We  wish  to  reiterate  our  call  for  a  strong 
global  response  to  combating  the  high  incidence  of 
non-communicable diseases, in particular in developing 
countries. In our last statement to this very body (see 
A/68/PV.15), our Prime Minister stressed the need for 
this  international  body  to  keep  on  the  front  burner  a 
practical  strategy  to  address  the  high  incidence  of 
NCDs  within  our  region  and  throughout  the  world. 
In  that  connection,  I  wish  to  commend  the  outgoing 
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador John 
Ashe,  for  convening  a  number  of  events  focusing  on 
that matter of great importance to my delegation.
It  is  our  hope  that  the  final  report  on  the 
informal  interactive  hearings  with  non-governmental 
organizations,  civil-society  organizations,  the  private 
10/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
sector  and  academia  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
NCDs, which was held in June 2014, will serve to build 
on  the  outcome  of  the  initiatives  resulting  from  the 
High-level  Meeting  on  Non-communicable  Diseases, 
held  in  September  2011  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-
sixth  session,  and  the  work  conducted  during  the 
following session.
My delegation is indeed pleased to see the inclusion 
of non-communicable diseases in the goals and targets 
for  sustainable  development  as  part  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  We  support  the  goal  to  ensure 
healthy  lives  and  promote  well-being  for  all  at  all 
ages. We also support the target to reduce by one third 
premature mortality from non-communicable diseases 
through  prevention  and  treatment,  and  to  promote 
mental  health  and  well-being  by  2030.  We  look  to 
the  various  specialized  bodies  of  this  international 
Organization  for  guidance  and  support  as  we  seek  to 
meet the targets and indicators under that and all goals 
developed as part of the post-2015 development agenda. 
We reiterate the call for the strengthening of the means 
of implementation of the goals and targets and for the 
revitalization of the global partnership for sustainable 
development.
Climate change remains more than an environmental 
concern for small island developing States such as Saint 
Kitts and Nevis. We regard it more as a threat to our 
existence. The adverse effects of climate change are well 
known: persistent adverse weather conditions, floods, 
extended droughts and rising sea levels. My delegation 
is convinced of the need to preserve our planet Earth 
for ourselves and generations yet unborn. We have an 
obligation to combat climate change through mitigation 
and adaptation measures.
the 
Climate change financing and technology transfer 
will  be  pivotal  to  the  success  of  that  objective.  We 
urge  widespread  acceptance  by 
international 
community  of  creative  initiatives  such  as  debt  swap 
for climate adaptation and mitigation. My Government 
is  convinced  that  such  proposals,  developed  with 
assistance from the Commonwealth Secretariat, provide 
SIDS with a greater degree of flexibility as we try to 
achieve  sustainable  development.  We  welcome  the 
commitment of the President of the General Assembly 
to provide appropriate impetus and momentum to the 
ongoing process under the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to reach a 
global agreement on climate change by 2015.
Maintaining  peace  and  security  remains  one  of 
the  main  priorities  of  the  United  Nations.  That  ideal 
is  captured  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda  as 
sustainable  development  goal  16,  to  achieve  peaceful 
and inclusive societies and the rule of law and to build 
effective  and  capable  institutions.  I  am  pleased  to 
report  that  at  the  national  level  we  have  implemented 
strategies that have brought a reduction in violent crime 
and strengthened institutions that sustain peaceful and 
inclusive societies. We are grateful to our development 
partners  —  the  Governments  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  the  United  Kingdom,  Mexico  and  Canada, 
the  European  Union,  and  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan — for their invaluable assistance in that regard.
Thirty-one  years  ago,  our  new  nation  forged  a 
strategic  and  mutually  beneficial  relationship  with 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan.  That  relationship 
has  grown  by  leaps  and  bounds,  and  it  touches  all 
three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development.  As 
the  dialogue  continues  on  the  implementation  of  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
regards itself suitably qualified to speak on the valuable 
contribution  which  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan 
can make to the international community.
At  the  recent  SIDS  Conference  in  Samoa,  our 
Prime Minister had the privilege to speak of the value 
of  the  partnership  established  with  the  Government 
and private sector of Taiwan in implementing a number 
of  projects  in  renewable  energy,  specifically  the 
establishment of a solar panel manufacturing plant and 
the outfitting of Government buildings and street lights 
with  solar  panels.  The  latter  project  will  assist  us  in 
Saint Kitts and Nevis to achieve the goal of ensuring 
access  to  affordable,  reliable  and  modern  energy 
services for all.
For  many  years,  our  Government  has  called  for 
the  international  community  to  allow  the  Republic 
of  China  on  Taiwan  to  participate  in  the  work  of  the 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  system.  That  call  is  by 
no  means  arbitrary  in  nature.  It  has  resulted  from 
our  partnership  in  numerous  development  initiatives 
across  the  sustainable  development  spectrum.  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis is therefore pleased to note that Taiwan 
was  recently  invited  to  attend  the  Assembly  of  the 
International Civil Aviation Organization for the first 
time  since  1971.  We  are  equally  pleased  to  note  the 
participation of Taiwan in the World Health Assembly 
and to offer our commendation to the Government and 
14-55191
11/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
people of Taiwan for sharing their expertise in the fields 
of medicine and civil aviation safety.
At  this  juncture,  we  are  convinced  that  the  time 
is  right  for  that  spirit  of  understanding  and  inclusion 
to  extend  to  the  area  of  the  ongoing  negotiations 
in  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  and  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Assembly.  My  Government  is  equally  convinced  that 
the  experiences  gained  by  Taiwan  in  its  strategy  for 
building environmental and economic resilience can be 
shared  with  the  international  community  through  the 
UNFCCC.
While  the  international  community  is  focused 
on  maintaining  peace  and  security,  we  are  pleased  to 
underscore  the  active  role  played  by  the  Government 
of the Republic of China on Taiwan in promoting peace 
and security across the Taiwan Strait and for proposing 
the East China Sea Peace Initiative, thus demonstrating 
its commitment to international peace and security.
The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis remains 
concerned by the decades-old unilateral trade embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba.  That  relic  of  the  Cold  War  runs 
counter to the principles of international law, principles 
which undergird the United Nations system. We stand 
by our sister nations in the Caribbean Community and 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  reiterate  our  call  for 
creative  ways  to  resolve  that  perennial  issue,  which 
adversely affects the tenor of hemispheric relations.
My  delegation  recognizes  the  challenging  weeks 
and months ahead as we prepare in earnest to implement 
the post-2015 development agenda. We offer our fullest 
support  in  that  regard.  Such  support  is  critical  to  the 
successful implementation of the development agenda. 
May we, as an international community, redouble our 
efforts in a manner that will redound to the benefit of 
developed and developing countries alike.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Robert Dussey, Minister of State 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the 
Togolese Republic.
Mr. Dussey (Togo) (spoke in French): I would like 
to extend to the President, on behalf of the people and 
Government of Togo, as well as on my own behalf, our 
warmest  congratulations  on  his  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I 
would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate to 
the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, my country’s 
sincere  congratulations  on  and  encouragement  for 
his  efforts  to  enable  our  Organization  to  meet  the 
challenges facing our world.
By  giving  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly the theme “Delivering on and implementing 
a  transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”,  the 
President  wished  to  remind  Member  States  of  their 
responsibility  to  spare  no  effort  in  defining,  as  we 
look  ahead  in  the  context  of  the  post-2015  period,  a 
development agenda commensurate with the challenges 
facing the world. Indeed, it is undeniable that defining 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has been 
beneficial to humankind. While not all of those goals 
will be achieved by all our States, our commitment to 
working together to attain them has enabled us to make 
notable progress towards each of the Goals throughout 
the world. The new development agenda should therefore 
provide States with an appropriate road map that takes 
into account the diversity and complexity of situations 
and developments resulting from the experience gained 
in implementing the MDGs.
For  its  part,  the  Togolese  Government  remains 
determined and mobilized to continue and to scale up 
the necessary efforts in the context of a new post-2015 
development programme with a view to a more tangible 
reduction in the level of poverty in our country. In recent 
years, the incidence of poverty has in fact been reduced 
by three points in Togo. That trend is supported by an 
improvement in the business climate that provides good 
prospects for increasing the success of the job creation 
programmes being implemented in the country for the 
benefit of young people.
In that regard, we note, among other elements, the 
positive  impact  as  a  result  of  conducting  several  job 
creation and grass-roots development programmes. In 
the same spirit, we have established the National Fund 
for Inclusive Finance, whose goal is to make financial 
services  accessible  to  the  most  vulnerable  people,  in 
particular  women,  who  are  generally  excluded  from 
access to credit from traditional financial institutions.
In  the  field  of  agriculture,  Togo  continues  to 
develop the National Agricultural Investment and Food 
Security  Programme.  Its  implementation  has  led  not 
only to satisfactory results in the context of food self-
sufficiency but also to agricultural surpluses for several 
crop years, particularly that of 2013/14.
In terms of health, encouraging results have been 
achieved in reducing the maternal and infant mortality 
12/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
rates  and 
tuberculosis.
in  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
With regard to the preservation of the environment 
and  improvement  in  living  conditions,  robust  actions 
have  significantly  increased  the  level  of  access  to 
sanitation and clean water. Moreover, the Government 
has stepped up its adaptation efforts to curb the impact 
of climate change, in particular, with regard to disasters 
caused by economic imbalance, which undermines the 
well-being  of  our  citizens.  Our  country  is  actively 
strengthening the institutional mechanism for disaster 
management.  Togo  has  increased  its  contribution  to 
the  protection  of  world  heritage  and  to  international 
security  through  significant  efforts  in  its  resolute 
fight  against  the  trafficking  of  protected  species,  as 
evidenced by the neutralization of several networks and 
the seizure of large quantities of ivory.
The  forward-looking  vision  of  Togo  as  a  country 
able to ensure and take ownership of its development in 
all respects has led the Government to initiate Vision 
Togo 2030. Launched in April, that initiative is based 
on a participatory approach. It should ultimately, with 
the accelerated growth and job creation strategy, allow 
my  country  to  better  ensure  its  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  and  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  which 
we  wholeheartedly  desire.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
entire United Nations system and all the countries that 
have helped us to achieve the progress made.
The  situation  of  chronic  instability  prevailing  in 
Africa today, in particular in the Sahel-Sahara region, 
is of concern. With its experience as a non-permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council,  on  which  it  served 
in  2012  and  2013,  my  country,  Togo,  is  now  more 
certain than ever that our agenda for peace and the new 
architecture for international security must reflect the 
new situation of the regionalization of conflicts.
Unfortunately, another factor that further threatens 
the survival of States and their development efforts is 
terrorism.  In  Africa,  for  example,  Boko  Haram  and 
Al-Shabaab  frequently  carry  out  acts  that  destabilize 
brother countries, such as Nigeria, Cameroon, Somalia 
and Kenya. Nevertheless, my country welcomes the joint 
efforts  of  the  international  community,  which  helped 
to  thwart  the  armed  terrorist  groups,  in  particular  in 
Somalia  and  Mali.  We  truly  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
the French Government to remain engaged in the Sahel 
region  so  as  to  continue  the  fight  against  terrorists 
alongside  African  countries  in  Operation  Barkhane. 
However, it is important that such efforts continue and 
strengthen and that the international community spare 
no effort in supporting the affected African countries, 
just as it has mobilized to counter the spread of terrorism 
in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere in the world.
Beyond  the  effective  control  of  borders,  in  vast 
geographical areas such as the Sahel, which in recent 
years has mobilized the international community to fight 
against terrorism, it is, in our view, equally essential to 
further secure our coasts in order to eradicate, with the 
same determination, maritime piracy.
In that spirit, mindful of the stakes involved, Togo 
took  the  initiative  to  host  an  international  conference 
on  maritime  security  and  economic  development 
in  Africa  in  Lomé  in  2015  under  the  auspices  of  the 
African  Union.  Togo  seeks  to  play  a  leading  role  in 
providing, with the support of all like-minded partners, 
a  framework  to  implement  measures  that  have  been 
recommended  on  various  occasions  to  make  the 
African coast a key space for international trade, free 
of organized predators, who instil fear along our coasts.
With regard to the promotion of peace, stability and 
security  in  our  countries,  the  deteriorating  situation 
in the Central African Republic, Libya, South Sudan, 
Syria,  Palestine,  Ukraine  and  elsewhere  in  the  world 
is  of  the  gravest  concern  to  us  owing  to  the  harmful 
consequences. Such repercussions are likely to call into 
question  the  very  existence  of  those  countries  and  to 
destroy their precious development efforts.
My  country,  Togo,  has  recovered  stability.  It  is 
moving forward towards a new horizon with renewed 
confidence. The daughters and sons of Togo have now 
chosen  to  build  the  future  in  a  climate  of  peace  and 
national  harmony.  Election  after  election,  Togolese 
democracy  is  being  built  and  strengthened  through 
dialogue and consultation. It is being established with 
functioning institutions, with the support and vigilance 
of a determined civil society and all citizens, who are 
more  aware  than  ever  of  the  remaining  challenges  to 
overcome in terms of democracy.
The plan for our society, which is mobilizing Togo, 
seeks  above  all  to  make  the  country  an  active  and 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community, 
determined  to  work  hand  in  hand  with  other  nations, 
so as to systematically thwart the conduits of tension, 
break  the  cycle  of  violence  everywhere  and  prevent 
entrenched insecurity. Those are prerequisites not only 
for social peace but also for economic development.
14-55191
13/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
I cannot conclude my statement without reminding 
the  Assembly  of  the  great  peril  to  human  survival 
threatening  the  entire  African  continent,  and  West 
Africa  in  particular,  with  the  outbreak  of  the  Ebola 
virus.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
Security Council’s adoption of resolution 2177 (2014), 
which describes the disease as a threat to international 
peace and security.
Recognizing  the  importance  of  human  capital  in 
development  work,  my  country  welcomes  efforts  by 
multilateral and bilateral actors to stem the epidemic. 
We launch an urgent appeal to the bodies of the United 
Nations  system  and  to  States  to  be  more  concerned 
about  the  fate  of  our  populations,  in  particular,  those 
in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, by supporting our 
efforts to save the infected and prevent the spread of the 
disease, which knows no boundaries.
I hope that the common values   that we share and 
affirm resonate well beyond the confines of diplomatic 
negotiations  and  that  daily  find  direct  and  clear 
expression in places where peace, security and shared 
prosperity are tangibly enjoyed.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the floor to the representative of Sweden.
Mr.  Grunditz  (Sweden):  Let  me  first  warmly 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth  session.  My  commendations  go  to  His 
Excellency Mr. John Ashe for his remarkable leadership 
of the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
Over the past few months, we have been reminded 
of the challenges that we collectively face in the Middle 
East, with the brutality of a terrorist organization that 
has  forced  entire  populations  to  flee  and  sent  shock 
waves  around  the  globe,  in  Africa,  with  the  spread 
of  the  Ebola  virus  disease,  and,  in  Europe,  with  the 
continued aggression by the Russian Federation against 
Ukraine. It was in order to deal with challenges such as 
those that the United Nations was created. It is because 
challenges such as those continue to exist that we need 
strong  international  cooperation  with  a  strong  United 
Nations at its core.
We  welcome 
international 
community  has  come  together  to  deal  with  the 
challenge posed by the terrorist group that calls itself 
the Islamic State and to take joint action to address the 
threat  posed  by  foreign  terrorist  fighters.  Sweden  is 
the  fact 
that 
the 
part of that common effort. When the Iraqi Government 
requested assistance in halting that terrorist group and 
in providing relief for its victims, Sweden was one of 
the  countries  that  responded  by  offering  additional 
humanitarian support.
At the same time, we must remember that neither 
here nor elsewhere in the region can crises be resolved 
by  humanitarian  or  military  means  alone.  Political 
engagement is, and will remain, indispensable.
We  must  support  the  new  Iraqi  Government,  just 
as we must pursue a political solution to the conflict in 
Syria. We must do our utmost, on both sides, to reach an 
agreement with Iran on its nuclear dossier. Furthermore, 
we must seek a lifting of the closure regime on Gaza, 
as well as a restart of negotiations between Israelis and 
Palestinians,  with  the  aim  of  ending  the  occupation 
and, at last, achieving a viable two-State solution.
We welcome the readiness displayed this week here 
at  the  United  Nations  to  take  strong  collective  action 
in support of the countries affected by the devastating 
Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa.  Sweden,  together 
with  others,  has  provided  substantial  support.  We  are 
currently  considering  further  steps  to  help  those  who 
are affected.
For  decades,  Sweden  has  been  a  close  partner  to 
Africa  and  will  continue  working  with  the  growing, 
democratic  and  economically  successful  Africa  that 
we  see  emerging,  as  well  as  with  the  parts  of  that 
continent that are still struggling with poverty, conflict 
and  disease.  True  to  that  ambition,  in  the  conviction 
that  security  and  development  belong  together,  our 
engagement  in  peacebuilding  and  our  contribution  to 
the implementation of the New Deal for Engagement in 
Fragile States with regard to Somalia and Liberia will 
continue.
the 
Russian  acts  of  aggression  and 
illegal 
annexation  of  Ukrainian  territory  constitute  serious 
breaches  of  international  law  and  have  created  a 
security  crisis  in  Europe,  entailing  significant  risks 
to  global  stability.  When  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security Council, the body entrusted with the primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, attacks a sovereign country without 
any  justification  whatsoever,  the  world  must  react 
resolutely. If aggression is tolerated, there is no telling 
who the next victim will be. If we accept the changing 
of borders by force, we also accept reopening the most 
painful chapters of our history.
14/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
Defending  the  principles  of  international  law, 
including  the  inviolability  of  borders,  must  be  a 
responsibility and an interest of all States. The Security 
Council  should  have  formed  the  first  line  of  defence 
for those principles. Too many Governments around the 
world have stayed silent when they should have spoken.
While  a  great  deal  has  been  accomplished  since 
the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  we  cannot  accept  the  fact  that  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people  are  still  lagging  behind  —  many 
of  them  in  conflict-affected  and  fragile  States.  It  is 
therefore important to accelerate efforts to address the 
unfinished business of the MDGs.
The United Nations has successfully presided over 
a  post-2015  consultation  process  with  a  near-global 
reach.  All  actors  involved  should  be  commended 
for  that.  Sweden  will  now  actively  contribute  to  the 
intergovernmental  deliberations  in  2015  on  the  new 
universal development framework. With that in mind, 
we  look  forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s  synthesis 
report as a further guide for our work.
The  world  needs  a  transformative  and  universal 
new  framework  for  sustainable  development.  The 
new  goals  will  need  to  be  accompanied  by  a  strong 
monitoring  and  accountability  framework,  allowing 
us  to  measure  progress  and  ensure  accountability  at 
all  levels,  thereby  ensuring  that  the  global  goals  are 
translated into actions that makes a real difference for 
real people. To achieve the new goals, the agenda must 
be accompanied by a broad international consensus on 
financing  for  development  and  effective  partnerships 
for  sustainable  development.  The  United  Nations,  for 
its part, must be fit for that purpose so as to take on the 
post-2015 development challenges in an effective way.
The time leading up to the adoption of the post-2015 
development  agenda  will  be  filled  with  challenging 
negotiations.  However,  Sweden  is  confident  that,  one 
year from now, we can arrive at a package that provides 
a solid basis for a future that is more prosperous, more 
gender-equal,  more  peaceful,  more  democratic,  more 
respectful of human rights and more sustainable for us 
and our children.
Neither development nor peace is possible without 
a strong focus on the role of women. By empowering 
women,  we  simultaneously  promote  both  peace  and 
development. Gender equality is not only just economics 
but also smart economics. A fundamental step towards 
gender equality is to ensure for women their sexual and 
reproductive health and rights, including freedom from 
violence. We have the normative frameworks in place, 
including  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000) 
on women, peace and security. The time has come to 
translate those norms into action.
One  of  the  most  serious  global  challenges  is  that 
of climate change. The impact is hardest on the world’s 
poorest  and  most  vulnerable  populations.  Even  if  we 
manage to limit the increase in temperature, the world 
will  experience  significant  adverse  effects,  especially 
in  low-lying  vulnerable  island  States.  Sweden  has 
successfully demonstrated that it is possible to separate 
greenhouse gas emissions and economic growth. Since 
1990,  we  have  reduced  our  emissions  by  more  than 
20  per  cent  while  experiencing  economic  growth  of 
60 per cent. For several years, Sweden has been a top 
contributor to climate financing, not least through our 
development cooperation, with a focus on adaptation in 
the least developed and most vulnerable countries.
Together  with  Colombia,  Ethiopia,  Indonesia,  the 
Republic of Korea, Norway and the United Kingdom, 
Sweden  initiated  the  Global  Commission  on  the 
Economy and Climate. The Commission’s recent report 
brings good news. Its recommendations will bring net 
economic  benefits  to  countries  at  all  income  levels, 
including  new  jobs,  cleaner  air,  better  health,  lower 
poverty and more energy security. The report, “Better 
Growth,  Better  Climate”,  points  to  a  new  and  better 
direction for our future.
In  Paris 
in  2015,  we  will  have  a  common 
responsibility  to  reach  a  global  and  legally  binding 
agreement that keeps us below the 2°C target. We must 
redouble our efforts to ensure that the Paris summit is 
a success.
Throughout  history,  people  have  moved  between 
countries, regions and continents in pursuit of a better 
life. Today, numerous crises and conflicts have forced 
more  people  from  their  homes  worldwide  than  at  any 
time  since  the  Second  World  War.  The  responsibility 
for giving shelter and protection is most often borne by 
neighbouring  countries.  The  international  community 
is called upon to increase its solidarity and to strengthen 
international protection for those who need it. Sweden 
is  heeding  that  call  through  its  refugee  policy  and  its 
tradition of being a place of refuge for people fleeing 
persecution and oppression. Last year, Sweden was the 
fifth largest donor to the Office of the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees.  In  recent  years, 
14-55191
15/17
A/69/PV.19 
29/09/2014
Sweden has been one of the top resettlement countries 
in the world.
The  debate  on  migration  often  revolves  around 
problems  and  challenges.  The  fact  is  that  migration 
offers huge opportunities and is a powerful enabler of 
development. Migration contributes to development and 
reduces poverty for migrant households. It also helps to 
fill needs in the labour market and to encourage trade 
and investment. Coordinated action and strong global 
cooperation are needed to maximize the positive effects 
of migration. Sweden is actively engaged in such global 
efforts, including, recently, through our chairmanship 
of the Global Forum on Migration and Development.
Sweden is currently the second largest recipient of 
asylum-seekers in the European Union and by far the 
largest on a per capita basis. The makeup of migration 
flows  to  our  country  has  varied  over  time,  but  those 
who  have  come  to  our  country  have  in  common  that 
they  have  all  enriched  our  society.  They  have  further 
opened our eyes to other peoples’ suffering and created 
closeness to the outside world.
Sweden’s commitment to disbursing 1 per cent of 
its  gross  national  income  in  development  assistance, 
including our substantial contributions to the different 
parts  of  the  United  Nations  system,  enjoys  strong 
popular support. The same goes for the public backing 
of  our  participation  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping. 
Some  80,000  Swedes  have  served  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  over 
the  years,  with  our 
latest  deployment  being  our  contribution  of  forces 
to  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali, which is currently under 
way.
Sweden  is  a  candidate  for  a  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  in  2017-2018,  with  the  support  of  the  Nordic 
countries.  We  strongly  believe  that  global  challenges 
require  multilateral  governance  structures  that  are 
effective and legitimate. A strong and well-functioning 
United Nations is at the heart of that system. Continued 
United Nations reform aimed at improving our ability to 
promote peace and security, reduce poverty, contribute 
to  sustainable  development,  alleviate  suffering  and 
increase respect for human rights is a work in progress, 
to which we all must contribute. Sweden is prepared to 
do its part.
I  will  make  one  final  point.  It  is  now  53  years 
since  Dag  Hammarskjöld  lost  his  life  while  on 
mission in Africa. Sweden welcomes the report of the 
Hammarskjöld Commission on the death of Secretary-
General  Dag  Hammarskjöld  (A/68/800,  annex)  and 
the  request  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the  General 
Assembly to consider it. We join the Secretary-General 
in encouraging Member States to declassify any relevant 
records that may bring new evidence with regard to the 
crash of his plane. We welcome all that can be done to 
achieve further clarification of that matter. Such actions 
should be carried out with due regard for the integrity 
of  Dag  Hammarskjöld  and  the  other  individuals  who 
were killed, their families and their memory.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting.
The  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran has requested to speak in exercise of the right of 
reply.  May  I  remind  him  that  statements  in  exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the 
first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mr. Safaei (Islamic Republic of Iran): I have asked 
for the floor to reply to the senseless rhetorical statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  the  Israeli  regime  this 
morning  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall  (see  A/69/
PV.17) — a statement imbued with baseless allegations 
and  distorted  passages  against  my  Government  and 
which was basically designed to defend the atrocities that 
that regime recently committed against a whole civilian 
population  by  attacking  others.  The  speaker  tried  in 
vain to wash his hands of the most recent bloodbath in 
Gaza, perpetrated before the eyes of the whole world. 
He rushed to the General Assembly to hopelessly wage 
another war, this time against the whole Islamic world 
and civilization, by associating them baselessly with the 
terrorist group of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham 
(ISIS) and propagating Iranophobia and Islamophobia. 
He was applauded for that by a crowd brought in from 
outside the United Nations.
It  is,  indeed,  very  ironic  that  a  regime  that  is 
famous  for  its  atrocities,  apartheid  policies  and  war 
crimes — facts that are well documented by different 
United  Nations  organs  and  agencies;  a  regime  that  is 
non-compliant  with  many  United  Nations  resolutions; 
a  regime  that  has  been  occupying  the  lands  of  other 
peoples for many decades can allow itself to accuse other 
countries in such a sinister way. It is also preposterous 
that  the  same  regime,  with  a  widely  known  record  of 
developing,  producing  and  stockpiling  various  kinds 
16/17 
14-55191
29/09/2014 
A/69/PV.19
of  inhumane  weapons,  including  nuclear  weapons, 
ventures  to  falsely  accuse  others  of  trying  to  acquire 
similar weapons.
It is laughable for many to hear such a person speak 
of the atrocities committed by the ISIS terrorist group. 
It is under the command of that person that, in the most 
recent  aggression  against  and  invasion  of  Gaza,  all 
international  norms  and  laws  were  blatantly  flouted, 
which led to the killing of more than 2,000 Palestinian 
civilians, mostly women, children and the elderly, and 
the  injury  of  many  more  and  the  destruction  of  basic 
civilian infrastructure, which rendered more than half a 
million people homeless, people who had already been 
under an inhumane and suffocating Israeli blockade for 
more than eight years.
Against  that  backdrop  and  while  he  claimed  to 
be  concerned  over  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme, 
which  is  an  entirely  peaceful  one  under  international 
supervision, we in the region and across the globe are 
completely right to worry about nuclear weapons in the 
hands of a regime that has showed time and again its 
capacity and propensity to kill, with the latest example 
being  its  rampage  in  July  and  August  against  the 
defenceless Palestinians. Therefore, can we or any other 
people believe that that speaker meant to do anything 
other  than  seek  to  divert  international  attention  away 
from  the  crimes  that  his  regime  is  committing  in  its 
neighbourhood?
The  statement  by  the  Israeli  representative  this 
morning was a continuation of the well-known Israeli 
policy  of  sabotaging  and  disrupting  the  earnest  and 
serious  negotiations  that  my  Government  has  been 
engaged in during the past year to address any genuine 
concern  that  any  country  may  have  about  the  Iranian 
peaceful  nuclear  programme.  We  have  no  doubt  that 
any progress in those negotiations is a cause of severe 
anxiety and distress for Israel, as it has always sought 
to muddy the waters and make excuses for maintaining 
and advancing its policy of aggression and invasion.
Based on all this, what we heard today from the said 
speaker was not a torch of truth, but rather a bunch of 
lies. While I have the floor, allow me also to refer very 
briefly to the statement made by the Foreign Minister 
of  Bahrain  (see  A/69/PV.17),  in  which  reference  was 
made to the three Iranian islands in the Persian Gulf. I 
would just like to remind the General Assembly of the 
statement that my delegation delivered on 27 September 
(see  A/69/PV.16)  in  reply  to  a  similar  baseless  claim 
by the Foreign Minister of the United Arab Emirates. 
Therefore, I do not want to take the Assembly’s time to 
repeat our well-founded position on the matter.
Regarding  the  same  statement,  let  me  also  recall 
that the term Persian Gulf is and has always been the 
historical and time-honoured toponym for the stretch of 
water situated between Iran and the Arabian peninsula. 
Considering  that  historical  evidence  bears  testimony 
to  that  fact  and  that  the  term  is  also  internationally 
recognized,  as  has  been  repeatedly  asserted  by  the 
United Nations, it is unwarranted that the wrong label 
be used for that geographical feature in the Assembly.
The meeting rose at 8.05 p.m.
14-55191
17/17
