United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
43rd plenary meeting
Friday, 7 November 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Antoine 
(Grenada), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Programme of work
The Acting President: Before proceeding with the 
item  on  our  agenda  for  this  meeting,  I  would  like  to 
make the following announcement concerning the work 
of the plenary.
The appointment of members to the Joint Inspection 
Unit, under sub-item (g) of agenda item 113, originally 
scheduled to be the second item of today’s meeting, is 
to be held at a date to be announced later.
Agenda item 111 (continued)
Election to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/69/230)
List of candidates (A/69/253)
Curricula vitae (A/69/254)
The  Acting  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
there is still one vacancy on the Court to be filled. The 
Assembly will now proceed to vote with respect to the 
remaining vacancy.
I  should  like  to  remind  representatives  that, 
pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,
“After 
the  President  has  announced 
the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order  in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.”
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers will now be distributed.
the 
invitation  of 
All the candidates whose names appear on the ballot 
paper  are  eligible.  I  would  like  to  remind  delegations 
that the name of only one candidate should be marked 
with a cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one 
name is marked will be considered invalid. Votes may 
be cast only for those whose names appear on the ballot 
papers.
At 
the  Acting  President, 
Ms. Mansouri (Algeria), Ms. Mohd Salleh (Brunei 
Darussalam),  Mr.  Ona  Garcés 
(Ecuador), 
Mr. Madut (South Sudan), Ms. Lyngdorf (Sweden) 
and  Mr.  do  Carmo  Vieira  (Timor-Leste)  acted  as 
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.30  p.m.  and 
resumed at 3.55 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
 189
 0
 189
0
189
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-61329 (E)
*1461329*
A/69/PV.43 
07/11/2014
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
97
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson (Jamaica)   121
Ms. Susana Ruiz Cerutti (Argentina) 
 68
Mr.  Patrick  Lipton  Robinson  has  obtained  an 
absolute majority in the General Assembly.
I have communicated the result of the voting to the 
President of the Security Council.
I have also received a letter from the President of 
the Security Council, which reads:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that  at  the 
7301st  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
7 November 2014, for the purpose of electing one 
member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February  2015, 
Ms.  Susana  Ruiz  Cerutti  obtained  an  absolute 
majority of votes.”
As  a  result  of  the  voting  that  has  taken  place 
independently 
the 
Security  Council,  no  candidate  has  obtained  an 
absolute  majority  in  both  bodies.  In  accordance  with 
the provisions of Article 11 of the Statute of the Court, 
it will therefore be necessary to hold another meeting to 
fill the remaining vacancy.
in  the  General  Assembly  and 
I  propose  that  the  present  meeting  be  adjourned 
and the 44th meeting held immediately to vote on the 
remaining vacancy.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
2/2 
14-61329
