United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
24th plenary meeting
Monday, 13 October 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 3:05 p.m.
Agenda items 71, 72 and 127
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide 
and Other Serious Violations of International 
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory 
of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed 
in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 
1 January and 31 December 1994
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
nineteenth annual report of the International 
Criminal Tribunal (A/69/206)
Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Persecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
twenty-first annual report of the International 
Tribunal (A/69/225)
International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the second annual report of the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals 
(A/69/226)
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Judge  Vagn 
the  International  Criminal 
Joensen,  President  of 
Tribunal for Rwanda.
Judge  Joensen  (International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  extending  my 
sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. I 
wish you a successful term of duty.
in  my  capacity  as  President  of 
This  is  my  third  appearance  before  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR). 
It  remains  an  immense  honour  for  me  to  address  the 
members  of  the  Assembly,  and  it  is  my  pleasure  to 
present the nineteenth annual report of the ICTR (see 
A/69/206).  The  report  details  the  progress  made  in 
the past year towards the completion of the Tribunal’s 
mandate and the transition to the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
I  will  begin  by  providing  a  brief  overview  of  the 
work undertaken throughout the reporting period, from 
1  July  2013  to  30  June  2014.  During  that  period  the 
Tribunal continued its effort to complete the remaining 
appeals expeditiously while respecting the rights of the 
accused,  transferred  a  second  accused  in  its  custody 
to  Rwanda  for  trial  and  made  significant  progress  in 
the ongoing transition of functions to the Mechanism. 
I will also update the Assembly on the progress since 
the  close  of  the  reporting  period,  which  included  the 
delivery of three additional appeal judgements.
As the Assembly is aware, the work before the ICTR 
Trial  Chambers  has  been  complete  since  December 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-56573 (E)
*1456573*
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
2012,  and  the  Tribunal’s  remaining  judicial  work  is 
now  focused  in  the  Appeals  Chamber.  During  the 
reporting period, the Appeals Chamber rendered three 
judgements concerning five persons in the Ndahimana, 
Ndindiliyimana  et.  al.  and  the  Bizimungu  cases.  In 
addition  to  those  issued  during  the  reporting  period, 
on 29 September 2014, the Appeals Chamber delivered 
a  further  three  judgments  concerning  four  persons  in 
the Karemera and Ngirumpatse, the Nizeyimana, and the 
Nzabonimana cases. I also note that the Ngirabatware
appeal, which originates from the Tribunal’s final trial, 
is currently pending before the Mechanism and remains 
projected for completion before the end of 2014.
I am pleased to report that as of 29 September 2014, 
the  Appeals  Chamber  has  completed  all  of  its  work, 
with  the  exception  of  one  case,  Nyiramasuhuko  et  al. 
(“Butare”),  which  involves  six  persons  and  remains 
projected for completion in 2015. It will be no small feat 
to complete an appeal of that size in such a relatively 
short  time.  That  the  completion  remains  on  track 
without any further delays, despite the unprecedented 
amount of pre-appeal work and the complexity of the 
case, is a testament to the dedication of all of the judges 
and their staff in the Appeals Chamber. 
In  light  of  the  latest  projected  completion  date  of 
the Butare appeal judgement and the involvement of the 
ICTR judges in cases before the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,  a  request  for 
extension  of  the  terms  of  office  of  the  judges  in  line 
with  projected  completion  of  our  work  was  recently 
made. I hope that the Member States will support that 
request, as it is crucial that the Tribunals complete the 
remaining  work  and  reach  orderly  completion  of  our 
mandates.
I  feel  that  it  is  incumbent  upon  me  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  commend  the  Appeals  Chamber,  as 
well as the entirety of the staff of the ICTR, for their 
continued  hard  work.  The  significant  progress  we 
have achieved towards the completion of our mandate 
and  the  transition  to  the  Mechanism  would  not  have 
been possible without their persevering efforts. As we 
near  the  end  of  our  mandate  and  continue  to  work  to 
complete the final appeal without delay, the staff who 
remain at the ICTR are among the most dedicated and 
professional  individuals  in  the  Organization.  That 
is  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  many  have  sacrificed 
opportunities for more secure and lucrative employment 
prospects  in  order  to  see  their  work  through  until 
the  end.  I  hope  that  Member  States  will  continue  to 
encourage  the  Secretariat  and  other  United  Nations 
entities  to  strongly  consider  applications  from  ICTR 
staff members, particularly those who remain with the 
Tribunal until completion of contract.
transferred  Bernard  Munyagishari 
I turn next to cases referred to national jurisdictions. 
The  ICTR 
to 
Rwanda  in  July  2013,  marking  the  second  and  final 
transfer  from  the  ICTR  to  Rwanda  of  an  accused  in 
custody. There are now four cases pending in national 
jurisdictions from ICTR indictments – two in Rwanda 
and  two  in  France.  Six  fugitive  cases  have  also  been 
transferred to Rwanda, leaving only three fugitives to 
be tried by the Mechanism. 
The function of monitoring the referred cases now 
rests solely with the Mechanism. During the reporting 
period, however, the Tribunal provided staff to assist the 
Mechanism with monitoring the two cases transferred 
to Rwanda and the two cases referred to France. Staff 
from  the  Judicial  and  Legal  Affairs  Section  of  the 
Tribunal based in Arusha acted as interim monitors of 
the proceedings in Rwanda during part of the reporting 
period,  and  an  Appeals  Chamber  staff  member  in 
The  Hague  continues  to  act  as  interim  monitor  for 
the  cases  transferred  to  France.  Both  have  submitted 
regular  reports  to  the  Mechanism,  and  the  Tribunal 
has followed the progress closely and will continue to 
provide  support  as  required  until  its  closure.  I  would 
like to express my deep gratitude to the staff members 
who  have  agreed  to  take  on  those  important  roles  in 
addition  to  their  core  duties,  and  to  commend  them 
for  ensuring  that  serving  as  monitors  has  caused  no 
detriment to their regular workload.
I  will  now  provide  an  update  on  the  transfer 
of  archives  to  the  Mechanism.  The  ICTR  worked 
vigorously during the reporting period to continue the 
hard  work  of  preparing  its  records  for  preservation 
by  the  Mechanism,  which  will  also  ensure  ease  of 
access  to  them  for  posterity.  In  that  respect,  the 
Tribunal continues preparing its paper, electronic and 
audiovisual records for transfer to, and management by, 
the Mechanism. That work is done in collaboration with 
the Mechanism in order to ensure that the records will 
be easily manageable after their transfer. 
In  addition  to  the  inventory  and  appraisal  of  the 
ICTR records and the planning and implementation of 
the transfer process, the Tribunal is also working on the 
redaction of audio-visual records of trial proceedings. 
Those records, which are most important for ensuring 
that  the  events  in  Rwanda  will  never  be  forgotten, 
2/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
may also serve as road maps for the creation of future 
international 
tribunals  and  –  possibly  almost  as 
importantly – can be used to further empower domestic 
courts  and  educate  the  world  on  the  importance  of 
challenging impunity. 
Despite persistent staffing challenges, the Tribunal 
has  made  significant  progress  in  the  preparation 
and  transfer  of  its  records  to  the  Mechanism.  As  of 
1 October, the Mechanism had received approximately 
47  per  cent  of  the  physical  ICTR  records,  which  will 
be housed in the Mechanism’s archives. That does not 
include the Prosecutor’s archives, which I will discuss 
next.  I  especially  thank  all  the  staff  working  on  that 
important project and commend them on the work they 
have completed with distinction.
I next turn to the Office of the Prosecutor, which 
has made significant progress towards completing the 
prosecution  of  ongoing  appeals,  monitoring  the  cases 
referred to national jurisdictions and ensuring a smooth 
and efficient transfer of functions, archives and records 
to the Mechanism. 
in 
the  prosecution  of  crimes  and 
During the reporting period, the Office continued 
litigation on 26 appeals in seven cases. It also handed 
over  responsibility  for  the  tracking  of  fugitives  to 
the  Mechanism  and  provided  support  to  Rwandan 
authorities 
in 
preparing  for  the  transfer  of  cases  from  the  Tribunal. 
The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  formally  transferred 
one  of  its  archival  facilities  along  with  the  records 
of  27  cases  for  archiving  to  the  Mechanism  during 
the  reporting  period.  The  processing  of  prosecutorial 
records continues and processing of the entirety of the 
Office’s  archives  is  expected  to  be  finished  upon  the 
completion of all appeals.
The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has  also  been 
exemplary in its work on a number of projects that will 
be  important  in  shaping  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunal. 
Through those projects, it has strengthened the capacity 
of national criminal justice systems to effectively and 
efficiently prosecute international crimes. In September 
2013,  the  Office  published  a  manual  on  the  tracking 
and  arrest  of  fugitives  from  international  justice. 
That  initiative  will  assist  national  authorities,  like 
Rwanda, to track and arrest outstanding fugitives. The 
prosecution of cases of sexual violence also continues 
to  be  an  important  objective  of  the  Office.  In  order 
to  empower  those  in  charge  of  prosecuting  violence 
against  women,  the  Office  released  a  best-practices 
manual on the prosecution of sexual and gender-based 
violence  in  Kampala  in  January  2014.  National  and 
international  prosecutors  from  around  the  world  will 
benefit from both manuals.
I  now  return  to  an  important  concern  that  the 
ICTR has raised in both the General Assembly and the 
Security Council for years, that of relocating acquitted 
persons and those released after serving their sentences. 
Since  2011,  the  Security  Council  has  called  upon 
Member States to assist the Tribunal with the relocation 
of  acquitted  and  released  persons  who  are  currently 
residing  in  Arusha.  During  the  reporting  period  the 
Tribunal continued to search for host countries for the 
nine acquitted and three convicted released persons. 
We are happy to report that the number of acquitted 
persons in Arusha was recently reduced to eight. In that 
regard, I must commend the Kingdom of Belgium for 
its  recent  agreement  to  reunite  one  of  the  Tribunal’s 
acquitted persons, Augustin Ndindiliyimana, with his 
family who live in Belgium. However, apart from the 
recent acceptance by Belgium of one acquitted person, 
there have been few developments in that area despite 
tremendous  efforts,  especially  by  the  Registrar.  who 
works constantly to find solutions. Those efforts have 
been  made  through  meetings  with  representatives  of 
several African and European countries, including the 
Government of Rwanda.
More  recently,  Rwanda  has  provided  assurances 
that  the  acquitted  and  released  persons  are  welcome 
to  return  to  Rwanda,  that  they  will  not  be  harmed  or 
prosecuted and that their properties will be handed back 
to them. However, the acquitted and released persons 
are  reluctant  to  return  due  to  fear  of  prosecution  and 
reprisals  from  others,  and  there  is  no  means  for  the 
Tribunal to assess the existence of any perceived threat 
they allege.
As  I  have  stated  in  the  past,  I  remain  deeply 
concerned  that  no  solution  has  yet  been  identified. 
While Member States continue to voice support for the 
relocation of those persons – and the recent progress in 
Belgium is a step in the right direction – much more is 
needed if the ICTR can hope to make any progress prior 
to  its  closure.  As  of  1  January  2015,  the  Mechanism 
will take over the formal responsibility for relocation, 
with assistance from the Tribunal until the resolution of 
the problem or our closure. The urgent assistance of all 
Member States is essential to ensure that we do not fail 
to  relocate  the  remaining  eight  acquitted  persons  and 
three convicted released persons in Arusha.
14-56573
3/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
This has been a remarkable year, especially since 
April marked the passage of 20 years since the genocide 
in  Rwanda.  To  pay  homage  to  the  over  800,000  men, 
women and children killed in April 1994, the ICTR led 
and participated in commemoration events throughout 
the  Great  Lakes  region.  Events  of  that  sort  help 
facilitate  the  healing  process  in  Rwanda  and  ensure 
that  the  international  community  never  forgets,  never 
again closes its eyes to genocide and honours those who 
lost their lives by learning from the events in Rwanda 
in an effort to ensure our ultimate goal of preventing 
tragedies of that kind from ever taking place again.
I  wish  to  especially  thank  the  Government  of 
Rwanda for inviting representatives from the Tribunal 
to participate in its official twentieth commemoration 
event,  which  demonstrated  Rwanda’s 
tremendous 
resolve in rebuilding its society, especially its judicial 
mechanisms, after the genocide. It further reminded the 
international community of the need for truth, justice 
and reconciliation in the wake of such atrocities.
As the Tribunal approaches its own milestone – the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  its  creation  by  the  Security 
Council  –  we  remain  committed  to  preserving  its 
legacy and to sharing developed practices and lessons 
learned with other international and domestic judicial 
mechanisms,  as  part  of  efforts  to  continue  the  fight 
against impunity. To highlight the achievements of and 
the lessons learned by the ICTR and to discuss its impact 
on the development of international humanitarian law, 
the administration of justice and the promotion of the 
rule of law, particularly in the Great Lakes region, the 
ICTR plans to hold a legacy symposium and other events 
in  Arusha,  which  will  culminate  with  a  ceremony  on 
8 November 2014 commemorating the establishment of 
the ICTR. The symposium will bring together experts 
in  the  field  of  international  justice,  including  jurists, 
academics, civil society members and others, who will 
reflect  on  the  legacy  of  the  ICTR  and  the  future  of 
international justice.
Before closing, I would be remiss if I did not also 
emphasize the efforts made by the Tribunal to ensure 
that  the  affected  communities  and  the  international 
community  understand 
the 
genocide and the lessons we have learned in our battle 
against  impunity.  In  that  context,  the  Office  of  the 
Registrar continues to play a key role through outreach 
programmes  aimed  at  training  legal  professionals, 
conducting genocide-awareness workshops and media 
outreach  events  and  distributing  materials  about  the 
ramifications  of 
the 
ICTR and the genocide to schools, local governments 
and members of the public.
Further, the sharing of developed practices between 
the international criminal tribunals and the International 
Criminal Court is another important initiative launched 
by the Tribunal this year. The goal of those developed-
practices workshops is to bring together legal officers 
from  the  international  and  hybrid  criminal  tribunals 
to  discuss  and  share  developed  practices  and  lessons 
learned. However, those important workshops will not 
be  able  to  continue  without  further  funding.  It  is  our 
hope that Member States will consider supporting that 
important initiative.
It  remains  my  honour  to  address  the  Assembly 
once more. With only one appeals case remaining, the 
Tribunal’s  mandate  is  nearly  complete.  On  behalf  of 
the entire Tribunal, I wish to express our gratitude to 
members’ Governments for supporting the work of the 
Tribunal and helping in our collective fight to challenge 
impunity. But there is still work left to do. I have full 
confidence that, with the support of Member States, the 
ICTR  commitment  to  the  sentiment  that  never  again 
should  flagrant  violations  of  international  criminal 
and humanitarian law go unpunished will continue to 
evolve  in  a  meaningful  way  and  lead  to  the  eventual 
realization of our goal of ending impunity.
The President: I now call on Judge Theodor Meron, 
President of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia  and  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
Judge  Meron  (International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals): It is my privilege 
to  appear  before  the  General  Assembly,  and  to  do  so 
under  the  presidency  of  Uganda,  in  my  dual  capacity 
as  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  as  President 
of the Residual Mechanism for International Criminal 
Tribunals.
I would first like to extend my congratulations to 
you,  Sir,  on  Uganda’s  assumption  of  the  presidency. 
I  wish  you  every  success  in  the  months  ahead.  I 
also  wish  to  recognize  the  continuing  support  and 
assistance  provided  to  the  ICTY  and  the  Mechanism 
by the Security Council’s Informal Working Group on 
International  Tribunals,  the  staff  of  the  Office  of  the 
Legal Counsel and the Legal Counsel himself, and to 
extend my deepest gratitude to them.
4/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
In my remarks today, I will refrain from providing 
a  recap  of  the  written  reports  submitted  on  behalf  of 
each of the two institutions I represent. Instead, I will 
underscore key successes achieved by, and challenges 
facing, the ICTY and the Mechanism. Let me first turn 
to the ICTY.
Since  my  last  report  to  the  Assembly  (see  A/68/
PV.33),  the  Tribunal  has  made  steady  progress  in 
completing its last remaining cases. Indeed, fewer than 
10  trials  and  appeals  remain  unfinished.  Two  appeal 
judgements were rendered this year, and an additional 
one,  involving  five  individuals  convicted  at  trial,  is 
expected in the next three months. By the end of 2015, 
based on current forecasts, we expect that only one trial 
and one appeal, in the Mladić and Prlić et al. cases, will 
still  be  ongoing,  concluding  in  2017.  That  continuing 
progress in carrying out the ICTY’s mandate is possible 
thanks  to  the  hard  work  and  dedication  of  the  judges 
and staff of the Tribunal.
As 
the 
its 
ICTY  completes 
judicial  work, 
preparing  for  its  full  closure  in  2017,  we  are  focused 
on  downsizing  the  institution  as  rapidly  as  possible 
while  also  ensuring  that  judicial  work  continues  to 
conform to the highest international standards. In that 
regard,  judges  and  staff  members  of  the  Tribunal  are 
particularly grateful to the Office of Human Resources 
Management  (OHRM)  for  its  flexibility  in  accepting 
certain  departures  from  standard  United  Nations 
regulations in order to facilitate recruitment and staff 
retention at a downsizing institution. That flexibility is 
crucial to helping the Tribunal complete its mission in a 
timely manner, and I hope that OHRM will continue to 
be supportive of any similar requests in future.
the  ICTY  continues 
Of  course,  as  is  inevitable  for  a  pioneering 
institution, 
to  face  certain 
challenges,  both  in  the  context  of  individual  cases 
and in preparing for its eventual closure. For example, 
given the complexity of the cases we address – which 
often  involve  thousands  of  exhibits,  hundreds  of 
witnesses, massive translation requirements – and the 
complications  of  distance,  some  delays  and  setbacks 
are inevitable. Those difficulties should not, however, 
either  distract  us  or  detract  from  the  very  significant 
achievements  of  the  Tribunal,  which  far  outpace  the 
expectations  of  even  the  most  optimistic  observers 
in  1993,  the  year  of  our  founding.  Our  success  since 
then  is  a  testament  to  the  international  community’s 
dedication to the rule of law and a symbol of Member 
States’ common commitment to ending impunity.
Perhaps  the  greatest  challenges  faced  by  the 
Tribunal at this stage involve staff morale and ensuring 
that we have enough qualified staff to allow our cases 
to  be  completed,  despite  the  fact  that  staff  members 
will  all  be  losing  their  jobs  soon  as  a  result  of  the 
completion  of  the  Tribunal’s  mandate.  My  colleagues 
and  I  are  continuously  reminded  of,  and  grateful  for, 
the extraordinary efforts made by staff to help carry out 
the Tribunal’s remaining work.
Please  do  not  underestimate  the  key  role  that  the 
international  community  plays  in  that  regard  as  well. 
Beyond the broad practical assistance the Tribunal has 
been afforded, the international community’s sustained 
support  for  our  work  over  the  last  two  decades  and 
to  this  very  day  is  both  an  affirmation  of  a  common 
commitment  to  the  principle  of  accountability  and 
to  the  rule  of  law  and  a  key  source  of  inspiration  for 
the  Tribunal’s  staff  members.  It  has  helped  to  ensure 
that  they  keep  their  focus  on  completing  the  ICTY’s 
last,  historic  cases  expeditiously  and  to  the  highest 
standards  of  quality.  And  for  this,  I  wish  to  offer  my 
sincere thanks.
I will now turn to the work of the Mechanism.
It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  report  that  the 
Mechanism  continues  to  make  excellent  progress  in 
assuming  relevant  functions  and  that  it  has  already 
completed or is in the process of completing the transfer 
of responsibilities from the ICTY and the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  with  regard  to 
witness protection, archives and other matters. In this 
respect,  I  am  particularly  grateful  to  my  colleague 
and friend, President Joensen, and to the prosecutors, 
registrars, judges and staff of the ICTR and ICTY for 
their continued cooperation and assistance. As the two 
Tribunals prepare to bring their operations to a close, 
the  Mechanism  is  also  assuming  responsibility  for 
administrative functions and is making good progress 
in preparing for construction of a permanent building 
in Arusha, in accordance with the parameters approved 
by the General Assembly.
The Mechanism has also already undertaken a range 
of judicial work. It is on track to deliver its first appeal 
judgement  by  the  end  of  the  year  and  has  rendered 
decisions and orders on a variety of other matters. The 
Mechanism is also keenly aware of its responsibility to 
cooperate with authorities in national jurisdictions and 
has processed various requests for access to evidence 
from proceedings of the ICTR and ICTY.
14-56573
5/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
In  addition  to  completing  the  smooth  transfer  of 
remaining  functions  from  the  ICTR  and  ICTY,  the 
Mechanism faces two pre-eminent challenges. The first 
of  those  challenges  is  working  with  the  international 
community to ensure that the nine individuals indicted 
by the ICTR but not yet arrested are apprehended. Six 
of those cases have been referred to Rwanda for trials 
should they be apprehended, while the three most senior 
will  be  tried  by  the  Mechanism.  The  ICTY’s  success 
in  accounting  for  each  of  the  individuals  it  indicted 
is a remarkable achievement of international criminal 
justice. Realizing the same result with respect to ICTR 
indictees  is  essential  to  maintaining  that  legacy.  The 
Prosecutor  of  the  Mechanism  continues  to  undertake 
important  efforts  to  track  remaining  indictees,  and 
I  would  call  upon  every  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations to assist those efforts to the utmost.
A second challenge that will soon be fully assumed 
by the Mechanism involves the relocation of individuals 
who were acquitted by the ICTR or who have finished 
serving sentences imposed by it but who are unable or 
afraid to return to their country of citizenship. The total 
number  of  those  individuals  is  very  small.  However, 
it  is  vital  to  the  credibility  of  international  justice 
institutions and the United Nations as a whole that they 
be  appropriately  relocated.  Efforts  to  find  countries 
willing  to  accept  those  individuals  have  heretofore 
not been sufficiently successful. Accordingly, I would 
urge each delegation present today to discuss with their 
Governments the possibility of accepting one or more 
acquitted or released individuals.
Of  course,  the  Mechanism  also  faces  a  number 
of  additional  challenges.  However, 
I  am  very 
confident  that  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  including  our  host  States  –  Tanzania 
and  the  Netherlands  –  the  Mechanism  will  continue 
to  make  progress  in  fulfilling  its  mandate,  serving 
as a worthy successor to the ICTR and ICTY. We are 
continually striving to adopt the best practices of those 
two  predecessor  institutions,  while  ensuring  that  we 
carry out our limited mandate by the most efficient and 
effective means possible.
As  a  scholar  of  international  law  and  justice  and 
an  international  judge  for  more  than  a  dozen  years,  I 
know all too well the long history of efforts – moral and 
practical, political and judicial – undertaken to address 
the worst crimes that often accompany war. Humankind 
has,  time  and  again,  condemned  those  atrocities,  but 
historically – and tragically – such condemnations have 
had a very limited real effect.
Given all of that, I never cease to be struck by the 
fact that with the founding of the ICTR and ICTY, just 
two decades ago, the United Nations achieved a unity 
of purpose in favour of justice that, both symbolically 
and materially, had eluded the international community 
for  centuries.  The  system  of  international  criminal 
justice that we enjoy today – including the ICTR, the 
ICTY and the Mechanism, as well as the world’s first 
permanent International Criminal Court – is a profound 
and lasting achievement. With the continued support of 
the international community, it is my fervent hope that 
those institutions will serve as harbingers of a new era, 
of  a  new  world,  where  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  is 
universal  and  the  concept  of  impunity  is  relegated  to 
history.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Marhic (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and 
its member States. The candidate countries the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and Albania, as well as Armenia, align themselves with 
this statement.
We reaffirm our unwavering support for the work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR),  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and 
the  International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals. We praise 
both  Tribunals  for  their  achievements  and  invaluable 
contributions to our shared goal of ending impunity for 
serious international crimes. We welcome the fact that 
the Mechanism is now operating on two continents and 
performing  functions  inherited  from  both  the  ICTR 
and the ICTY. We thank President Meron and President 
Joensen for their reports and commend them for their 
efforts in completing the work of the Tribunals. We also 
pay  special  tribute  to  the  work  of  all  the  staff  of  the 
Tribunals and the Mechanism. It is important that both 
Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism  receive  the  necessary 
support to complete their mandates.
The  Tribunals  have  played  a  key 
in 
strengthening the rule of law and promoting long-term 
stability and reconciliation. Since their establishment, 
both Tribunals have embodied the need to fight impunity 
and the refusal by the international community to let the 
role 
6/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern  escape  justice.  They  were  forerunners  in 
creating  jurisprudence  in  their  field.  They  paved  the 
way for the International Criminal Court.
Both  Tribunals  have  continued  to  hand  over 
responsibilities to the Mechanism, and we welcome the 
fact that the staff of the three institutions have worked 
together  closely,  sharing 
institutional  knowledge, 
expertise and lessons learned. Such a smooth transition 
process  is  important  in  order  for  both  branches  of 
the  Mechanism  to  carry  on  and  protect  the  work  of 
the  Tribunals.  Finally,  we  note  with  satisfaction  that 
both  Tribunals  are  committed  to  completing  their 
proceedings in an efficient and timely manner, without 
compromising fair trial rights.
We  recall  that  States’  responsibility  to  cooperate 
with the Tribunals and the Mechanism remains crucial 
for their ability to complete their mandates, particularly 
cooperation in bringing those indicted to justice.
With  respect  to  the  ICTR,  we  recall  that  despite 
continuing  appeals  by  the  international  community, 
nine accused individuals remain at large. The failure to 
arrest those fugitives is a matter of grave concern. We 
note with appreciation that the Office of the Prosecutor 
of  the  Mechanism  focuses,  among  other  tasks,  on  the 
tracking of the remaining fugitives indicted by the ICTR 
and  that  the  Prosecutor  continues  to  receive  support 
from  INTERPOL  and  some  United  Nations  Member 
States, including through the United States’ War Crimes 
Rewards Programme. We call upon all States concerned 
to  intensify  their  efforts  and  cooperation  with  the 
Arusha  branch  of  the  Mechanism  in  order  to  achieve 
the  arrest  and  surrender  of  all  remaining  fugitives. 
Enhanced  cooperation  of  the  United  Nations  Member 
States on the issue of relocation is also needed in order 
for  the  Tribunal  to  be  successful  in  implementing  its 
strategic plan for relocation prior to its closure.
On  8  November,  the  ICTR  will  mark  20  years 
since its creation by the Security Council. At the same 
time, there will be approximately one year remaining 
until the projected closure of the Tribunal. The support 
of  the  international  community  is  necessary  for  the 
completion of the ICTR’s mandate.
With regard to the ICTY, we note that at the closure 
of the reporting period, fewer than ten trials and appeals 
were  pending  and  that  there  were  no  outstanding 
indictments  for  violations  of  core  statutory  crimes. 
We  note  that  in  the  ICTY  report  (see  A/69/225),  the 
Office of the Prosecutor acknowledges the assistance it 
received from the European Union and the EU member 
States, and we will continue to support that Office.
the 
that 
We welcome the fact the Office of the Prosecutor 
continued to provide information on the ongoing ICTY 
cases  to  assist  national  jurisdictions  in  prosecuting 
crimes  arising  out  of  the  conflict  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia,  and 
joint  European  Union/
ICTY  liaison  prosecutors  project  remained  a  central 
component of the Office’s strategy in that regard. We 
also note that the States concerned remain committed to 
meeting  their  obligations  towards  justice.  Completing 
the process of rendering justice for crimes committed 
during  the  conflicts  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  is  an 
essential  contribution  to  lasting  reconciliation.  Full 
cooperation  with  the  ICTY  therefore  remains  an 
essential condition for the Stabilisation and Association 
Process  in  the  Western  Balkans  and  is  an  essential 
condition for membership of the European Union.
to  handle 
We  welcome  the  work  of  the  Tribunals  and  the 
Mechanism  on  strengthening  the  capacity  of  national 
authorities 
the  remaining  war  crimes 
cases  effectively.  We  fully  support  the  training  and 
information exchanges, as well as the access to material 
and evidence from the Tribunals that is publicly available 
for  investigating.  That  is  important  for  the  Tribunals’ 
legacy and for the domestic capacity to adjudicate war 
crimes. In its Stabilisation and Association Process for 
the Western Balkans, the EU is increasingly underlining 
the  importance  of  local  ownership  for  handling  war 
crimes cases, in line with the need to fight impunity.
We note that the Office of the Prosecutor continued 
to promote improved regional cooperation among States 
of  the  former  Yugoslavia  in  judicial  matters,  and  we 
welcome the signature of the protocol on the exchange of 
information and evidence in war crimes cases adopted 
between  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Montenegro 
on  29  April.  However,  many  challenges  remain  in 
coordinating  the  activities  of  judicial  institutions  in 
parts  of  the  region,  and  we  note  the  serious  concerns 
expressed by the Office of the Prosecutor in the parts of 
the report addressing national war crimes prosecution. 
We  note  the  recent  increase  in  staff  numbers  in  the 
Prosecutor’s Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which 
should advance the implementation of the national war 
crimes strategy in the upcoming period.
We  note  that  the  Arusha  branch  of  the  Office  of 
the Prosecutor continued to monitor progress in cases 
transferred to national jurisdictions and that substantial 
14-56573
7/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
progress  has  been  achieved  in  certain  proceedings. 
We continue to urge all States to cooperate with both 
Tribunals  and  branches  of  the  Mechanism,  in  full 
compliance  with  their  obligations  under  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
Finally,  we  welcome  the  steps  taken  by  the 
Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism  in  terms  of  capacity-
building, dissemination of information and legacy. We 
recall the importance of the preservation of archives in 
the transition process to the Mechanism, as they remain 
an integral part of the history and the memory of both 
Rwanda and countries of the former Yugoslavia. We will 
continue to support both the principle and the system 
of  international  criminal  justice  and  its  essential  role 
in the reconciliation process, and we call on all States 
to do the same. It is indeed important that knowledge 
gained and lessons learned in the fight against impunity 
are not forgotten.
Mr. McLay  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand 
(CANZ).
CANZ  reaffirms 
its  strong  support  for 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR), 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  ICTR,  with  the  ICTY  having  reached  that  same 
milestone last year. Over that time, the Tribunals have 
elaborated the practice of international law through the 
administration  and  management  of  complex  criminal 
proceedings.  They  have  added  breadth  and  depth  to 
international criminal law jurisprudence, administering 
justice  in  cases  involving  some  of  the  most  horrific 
crimes in recent history.
CANZ  acknowledges  the  Tribunals’  efforts  as 
they  implement  their  completion  strategies,  all  the 
while  ensuring,  as  the  Presidents  have  emphasized, 
that  fundamental  procedural  safeguards  are  met.  The 
ICTR has completed work on substantive cases at the 
trial level for all 93 accused, including transferring the 
cases of three fugitives to the Residual Mechanism and 
the cases of six other fugitives to Rwanda. The Tribunal 
has  completed  appellate  proceedings  in  respect  of  15 
individuals,  and  all  but  one  of  the  remaining  appeals 
will be completed in this year, 2014.
Significantly,  there  are  no  fugitives  at  large  from 
the ICTY. It now enjoys its full complement of judges 
and  has  concluded  proceedings  against  141  of  161 
indictees. Four trials and five appeals continue before 
the  ICTY,  including  the  trials  of  three  of  the  most 
senior  indicted  figures,  demonstrating  that  critical 
work  remains  to  be  done  and  that  the  Tribunals  must 
receive the full support of the international community 
until their mandates are completed. We encourage the 
ICTY to continue ensuring that those proceedings are 
advanced efficiently and effectively.
In addition to judicial proceedings, both the ICTY 
and  the  ICTR  have  engaged  in  wider  activities  that 
contribute to the advancement of international criminal 
justice.
Notwithstanding the efforts of the Tribunals, CANZ 
notes that States also have a central role as facilitators of 
that important work, in which regard we acknowledge 
that the final apprehension of standing ICTY fugitives 
was  due,  in  very  large  part,  to  the  cooperation  of 
States and the ICTY Prosecutor. We encourage similar 
cooperation on the part of all States in relation to the 
outstanding  ICTR  fugitives,  including  cooperation 
with  the  Residual  Mechanism,  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 2150 (2014). We also urge Member 
States to assist with enforcing sentences and improving 
conditions in places of detention for convicted persons. 
Of particular concern to CANZ is the situation of the 
nine  persons  acquitted  and  released  by  the  ICTR  and 
the three who have completed their sentences and are 
still awaiting relocation.
CANZ  reiterates  its  support  for  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010) of December 2010, in which the 
Council decided to establish the Residual Mechanism.
That  decision  is  integral  to  ensuring  that  the  rule 
of  law,  the  practical  application  of  criminal  justice, 
the  protection  of  witnesses  and  the  maintenance  of 
Tribunal  archives  all  continue  beyond  the  completion 
of the Tribunals’ respective mandates. The most recent 
ICTY and ICTR reports (see A/69/225 and A/69/206) 
demonstrate a commitment to ensuring that remaining 
Tribunal  activities  are  effectively  transferred  to  the 
Residual Mechanism.
The  successful  completion  of  the  work  of  the 
Tribunals  and  their  ultimate  legacy  for  international 
criminal  justice  are  in  very  large  part  dependent  on 
the individual and collective efforts of us, the Member 
States.  For  their  part,  Canada,  Australia  and  New 
Zealand  will  continue  to  offer  their  full  cooperation 
and  support  for  the  Tribunals  and  for  the  Residual 
8/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
Mechanism, 
thus  giving  practical  effect 
commitment to international criminal justice.
to  our 
issue  the  international  community  should  address 
collectively.
Ms. Stener (Norway): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the five Nordic countries: Denmark, Finland, 
Iceland, Sweden and my own country, Norway.
This  year  the  world  commemorated  the  fact  that 
20 years have passed since the genocide in Rwanda in 
1994. The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 
(ICTR) should be commended for its role in ensuring 
criminal  justice  for  the  horrendous  crimes  that  were 
committed  and  in  developing  international  criminal 
law.  Following  the  three  appeals  judgements  that 
were issued on 29 September this year, the remaining 
caseload of the ICTR Appeals Chamber consists of just 
one case, which is expected to be heard in 2015.
Next  year,  20  years  will  have  passed  since  the 
genocide  in  Srebrenica,  Bosnia.  As  the  first  ad 
hoc  tribunal  to  be  established,  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
has  consistently  served  as  a  catalyst  for  important 
developments in international criminal law. Fewer than 
10 cases remain to be heard at the ICTY at this point – 
four  trials  and  five  appeals.  All  of  the  161  indicted 
individuals  have  been  accounted  for.  The  ICTY  has 
worked actively to prevent potential delays caused by 
the heavy work load of the Appeals Chamber, and its 
efforts have, in our view, been successful.
The  Nordic  countries  would  like  to  applaud  the 
significant  achievements  of  the  ICTR  and  ICTY 
over  the  past  20  years.  In  particular,  both  Tribunals 
deserve praise for their work in the area of sexual and 
gender-based  violence.  The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
at  the  ICTR  released  a  best  practices  manual  on  the 
investigation  and  prosecution  of  sexual  and  gender-
based violence in January this year. We hope that the 
ICTY’s vast experience in handling such cases will also 
be passed on to relevant stakeholders and practitioners 
in such a document. Both Tribunals are, however, still 
functioning and in need of continued support from the 
international community. It is crucial that the Tribunals 
be allocated sufficient resources to complete their tasks 
in the expected timeframe.
Another  issue  of  importance  to  the  successful 
completion of the mandate of the ICTR is the need to 
relocate  acquitted  persons  and  convicted  individuals 
who have completed their sentences and been released, 
and  who  are  currently  residing  in  Arusha.  That  is  an 
for 
remaining 
The  Mechanism 
International  Criminal 
Tribunals was established in 2010 as a key component 
of  the  completion  strategies  of  the  two  Tribunals. 
The  Mechanism  is  a  temporary  body,  tasked  with 
continuing  the  jurisdiction,  rights  and  obligations, 
and essential functions of the ICTR and the ICTY and 
with  maintaining  the  legacy  of  both  institutions  after 
the  completion  of  their  mandates.  It  will  perform  a 
number  of  critical  functions,  such  as  tracking  and 
prosecuting 
fugitives  and  conducting 
appeals proceedings and retrials and trials for contempt 
of  court.  The  Mechanism  is  also  tasked  with  other 
important responsibilities, including protecting victims 
and witnesses, supervising the enforcement of sentences 
and supporting national jurisdictions. It is essential to 
ensure sufficient support for the Mechanism, including 
satisfactory funding, so that it can perform its tasks and 
maintain the legacy of the ad hoc Tribunals.
Finally, like the Tribunals, the Mechanism depends 
on  the  cooperation  of  national  Governments  to  arrest 
fugitives.  The  fact  that  nine  Rwandan  fugitives  still 
remain  at  large  20  years  after  the  genocide  must  be 
addressed.  Three  of  them  are  earmarked  for  trial  by 
the  Mechanism:  Félicien  Kabuga,  the  alleged  chief 
financier of the genocide; Protais Mpiranya, the former 
Commander  of  the  Presidential  Guard;  and  Augustin 
Bizimana,  the  former  Defence  Minister.  As  States 
Members of the United Nations, we are all obliged to 
cooperate unconditionally and to comply with requests 
for  assistance  or  orders  from  the  Mechanism.  We 
strongly encourage all States to intensify their efforts 
to ensure the arrest of the remaining fugitives.
Mr.  Milanović  (Serbia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  welcome  Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  and  Judge  Vagn 
Joensen,  President  of 
the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR).  I  thank  them  for  their 
presentations of the annual reports of the two Tribunals 
(see A/69/225 and A/69/206), as well as of the second 
annual report of the International Residual Mechanism 
(see A/69/226).
Let  me  begin  by  expressing  my  country’s 
appreciation  of  the  acknowledgement  by  the  ICTY 
President of the continued high level of cooperation of 
14-56573
9/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has made an important 
contribution  to  making  the  ICTY  more  efficient  than 
most of the other international criminal tribunals, not 
only by apprehending the last remaining fugitives, but 
also by diligently providing documents to the Tribunal 
and enabling witnesses to testify. As a consequence, no 
indictees remain at large and most of the 3,458 requests 
for assistance received from the Office of the Prosecutor 
or defence counsels for access to documents, archives 
and witnesses have been complied with, and only those 
of a more recent date are still being processed. That has 
been brought about not only by the compliance of the 
Government of Serbia with its international obligations, 
but  also  by  its  firm  commitment  to  the  principles 
of  international  humanitarian  law.  Let  me  reiterate 
that  the  Government  of  my  country  is  committed  to 
continuing such cooperation with both the Tribunal and 
the Residual Mechanism.
Serbia  welcomes 
in 
the  progress  made 
the 
establishment  of  operational  capacities  of  the  branch 
of the International Residual Mechanism in The Hague 
over  the  last  year.  The  successful  commencement  of 
the  work  of  the  Mechanism  is  of  key  importance  for 
the implementation of the ICTY mission in accordance 
with its mandate and, in particular, for enabling national 
judiciaries  to  continue  to  prosecute  war  crimes.  In 
that  context,  I  would  like  to  mention  with  particular 
appreciation the visit to Belgrade of the Mechanism’s 
Prosecutor,  Hassan  Bubakar  Jallow,  on  8  September, 
during  which  a  memorandum  of  understanding  was 
signed that will facilitate continued cooperation in the 
exchange of evidence to be used in cases tried by the 
national judiciary of Serbia.
Serbia systematically and persistently continues to 
investigate  and  indict  those  suspected  of  war  crimes 
committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. So 
far, Serbian courts have tried 435 persons for criminal 
offences  committed 
international 
humanitarian law, while 73 persons are currently under 
investigation. We thus expect the other countries of the 
former Yugoslavia to do the same and try the cases of 
war crimes in which Serbs were victims. That is their 
duty not only towards the victims and their own people, 
but towards humanity as well.
in  violation  of 
Serbia has followed with particular attention ICTY 
activities  to  implement  the  completion  strategy  and 
facilitate a smooth transition to the Mechanism. It is in 
the interest of my country to see the processes against 
its  citizens  completed  and  to  have  their  defences 
presented  under  a  fair  and  expeditious  procedure, 
because protracted procedures prolong detention, often 
indefinitely,  and  that  is  contrary  to  the  recognized 
norms regulating the rights of the accused. The case of 
Vojislav Šešelj is indicative in that connection. Even 11 
years  and  8  months  after  his  voluntary  surrender  and 
detention in the United Nations Detention Unit, he has 
not yet been sentenced. It is therefore necessary that the 
ICTY complete the pending cases as soon as possible 
with full respect for the trial rights of the accused and 
the defence.
Regarding  the  ICTY  legacy,  the  21-year  history 
of  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  has  not,  regrettably, 
been  without  inconsistencies.  The  practice  has  not 
contributed  to  the  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  or 
of legal security, nor has it helped the acceptance of the 
legacy across the post-conflict societies of the former 
Yugoslavia. It does not serve the interests of either the 
accused or the victims.
It has been demonstrated very clearly that, short of 
full cooperation by the countries on whose territories 
the  crimes  were  committed,  justice  can  hardly  be 
served. Regional cooperation, especially in the coming 
years  when  the  ICTY  has  ceased  its  activity,  will  be 
of  key  importance  in  the  struggle  against  impunity 
for  international  criminal  offences.  Such  cooperation 
with the war crimes prosecutors of Croatia, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  Montenegro  and  the  European  Union 
Rule  of  Law  Mission  in  Kosovo  has  been  constantly 
intensifying,  with  evidence  being  exchanged  in  252 
cases  so  far.  Let  me  point  out  in  that  regard  that  the 
war  crimes  prosecutors  of  Serbia  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina signed an agreement on 11 September on 
the  exchange  of  liaison  officers  to  facilitate  bilateral 
cooperation on access to evidence.
For  its  part,  my  country  honours  its  obligations 
and  will  continue  to  cooperate  in  good  faith,  in  the 
firm  belief  that  justice  is  both  a  goal  and  a  means  of 
facing  the  past  and  addressing  the  common  future. 
The  international  judicial  system,  however,  has  its 
own  contribution  to  make  through  full  respect  for 
international norms, human rights and the right to a fair 
hearing and defence. 
In that context, let me reiterate Serbia’s readiness 
to address, and its interest in addressing, the question 
of the ICTY archives. We advised the Security Council 
of our official position on the matter in October 2008. 
We  are  also  ready  to  continue  the  discussion  on  the 
issue of information centres.
10/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
As  I  pointed  out  here  last  year,  as  well  as  in  the 
debates in the Security Council, Serbia attaches great 
importance to the initiative of allowing those sentenced 
by the ICTY to serve their sentences in the States that 
emerged in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. My 
country has shown its readiness to accept its nationals, 
as  well  as  other  willing  persons  tried  by  the  ICTY, 
including those yet to be tried by the Mechanism, and 
is ready to provide full security guarantees regarding 
the locations in which those sentences would be served.
Today,  Serbian  nationals  are  serving  prison 
sentences  in  Austria,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland, 
France,  Germany,  Norway,  Poland,  Portugal  and 
Sweden.  Our  request  that  sentences  be  allowed  to  be 
served in Serbia is motivated by the desire to overcome 
the difficulties that the sentences encounter in foreign 
prisons, particularly difficulties related to the exercise 
of human rights. My country has promoted the initiative 
very actively and since 2009 has sought to sign a sentence 
enforcement  agreement  with  the  ICTY.  Its  officials 
have  written  to  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICTY  on 
the matter on a number of occasions, but, regrettably, 
to  no  avail.  The  Government  of  Serbia  considers  that 
no  legal  or  political  reasons  exist  today  -  more  than 
two  decades  later  -  for  the  continued  implementation 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  1993  recommendation  that 
provides  for  the  enforcement  of  sentences  outside  the 
territory of the former Yugoslavia.
Without  prejudging  the  recommendation  of  the 
Secretary-General,  and  in  view  of  the  statement  in 
the report of the Mechanism to the General Assembly 
being discussed today that “The Mechanism is grateful 
to  those  Member  States  that  are  enforcing  sentences 
and  to  those  that  are  willing  to  consider  concluding 
sentence enforcement agreements” (see A/69/226, para. 
68), and in respect of President Meron’s statement in his 
briefing to the Security Council in June 2013 that the 
Mechanism was actively working to secure additional 
agreements  to  increase  its  enforcement  capacity  and 
welcomed  the  cooperation  of  States  in  that  regard, 
Serbia  would  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  sign  a 
sentence enforcement agreement with the Mechanism.
Let  me  repeat  that  the  results  of  long-standing 
cooperation  with  the  ICTY  testify  to  my  country’s 
seriousness  and  readiness  to  accept  international 
supervision of enforcement and to provide all necessary 
guarantees.  We  also  consider  that  other  States  in  the 
territory of the former Yugoslavia should be enabled to 
conclude such agreements with the Mechanism, if they 
so wish and if they fulfil the necessary conditions. In 
that context, I would like to point out that on 20 January 
2011 Serbia signed the agreement on the enforcement 
of  criminal  sentences  with  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  Under  the  provisions  of  the  agreement,  the 
persons  convicted  before  the  Court  for  war  crimes, 
crimes against humanity and genocide may serve their 
sentences in Serbia.
I wish to conclude by saying that by fulfilling its 
obligations with respect to its cooperation with the ICTY, 
as well as by trying war crimes in domestic courts to the 
highest professional standards, the Republic of Serbia 
has  made  a  significant  contribution  to  the  Tribunal’s 
completion strategy and to the process of normalization 
of relations among countries of the region. All results 
of my country’s years of cooperation with the Tribunal 
indicate the seriousness of the Republic of Serbia and 
its readiness to contribute to the cause of international 
justice.
Mrs. Anđelić (Bosnia and Herzegovina): I would 
like to thank the Secretary-General for transmitting the 
twenty-first annual report of the International Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) (see A/69/225), the 
second  annual  report  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  (see  A/69/226) 
and  the  nineteenth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTY) (see A/69/206) 
to the Security Council and to the General Assembly. 
Let me underline the significant contribution of all the 
staff  of  the  Tribunals  and  to  thank  them  for  all  their 
efforts  and  commitment  to  successfully  completing 
their mandates.
Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  welcomed 
the 
establishment  of  the  ICTY  and  has  supported  its 
work  since  the  beginning,  because  the  ICTY  is  a 
legal framework for fighting impunity, which ensures 
accountability for the worst of crimes and an end to a 
tragic period in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
and the region. For a long time the ICTY has been the 
only  hope  for  victims  of  mass  murders,  deportations, 
torture,  rape  and  other  inhuman  acts.  The  ICTY  has 
sent a clear message that the crimes committed in the 
former Yugoslavia should be punished consistently and 
without  exceptions.  That  should  be  a  clear  warning 
to  mass  murderers  of  the  future  and  a  support  to  the 
process of reconciliation in the region.
Bosnia 
has 
and  Herzegovina 
consistently 
cooperated  with  the  ICTY,  and  we  will  continue 
that  cooperation  in  the  future  in  order  to  give  to  the 
14-56573
11/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
Residual  Mechanism  assistance,  as  necessary.  Our 
authorities  continue  to  provide  valuable  assistance, 
allowing access to documents and archives and in the 
field of witness protection. It is of high importance that 
the Tribunal’s completion strategy and its transition to 
the Residual Mechanism be successfully implemented. 
In that regard, Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed to 
provide support to the Mechanism in doing all necessary 
administrative and judicial work. We welcome that the 
Mechanism’s staff includes nationals of 46 Sates, also 
including nationals of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The  Tribunals  have  had  a  positive  influence  on 
the  judiciary  and  in  terms  of  respect  for  the  rule  of 
law  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  which  continues  to 
strengthen  national  justice  systems  at  all  levels  in 
order  to  bring  more  war  criminals  to  justice  in  local 
courts. We adopted the national war crimes strategy on 
29 December 2008. The implementation of the strategy 
is a complex process that includes the participation of 
many  institutions  from  all  authority  levels  in  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  We  welcome  the  support  of  the 
European Union in the implementation of the goals of 
the strategy.
Regional  cooperation  remains  essential  for  the 
prosecution  of  all  suspected  war  criminals  and  for 
rebuilding  trust  in  the  region.  It  is  a  precondition  for 
the process of reconciliation. Bosnia and Herzegovina 
continues 
to  promote  regional  cooperation,  most 
recently  by  signing  with  Montenegro  the  protocol  on 
cooperation in prosecution of perpetrators of war crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide,  on  26  April. 
That followed the signing of protocols on the exchange 
of evidence and information on war crimes, concluded 
between  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina and the Office of the Prosecutor of Serbia 
in January 2013 and with the Office of the Prosecutor 
of  Croatia  in  June  2013.  The  protocols  defined  the 
channels for concluding any investigations concerning 
citizens of other countries.
Both  the  ICTY  and  ICTR  have  contributed  to 
classifying sexual abuse as a crime against humanity, 
and as such, the issue of sexual abuse has become an 
integral part of the Statute of the International Criminal 
Court. Women judges and women in senior positions in 
the  Offices  of  the  Prosecutors  have  made  significant 
contributions  to  the  effective  prosecution  of  cases  of 
sexual  violence  against  women.  In  that  respect,  we 
welcome that 56 per cent of professional staff and 53 per 
cent  of  all  Mechanism  staff  are  female.  Furthermore, 
we  welcome  the  assistance  of  UN-Women,  which 
sponsored  a  programme  about  prosecuting  crimes  of 
sexual violence.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that both 
Tribunals  have  made  considerable  achievements  and 
progress in prosecuting individuals who bear the greatest 
responsibility  for  serious  human  rights  violations 
and  violations  of  humanitarian  law.  Furthermore,  we 
welcome the achievements reached in delivering justice 
to  victims  and  in  developing  international  criminal 
law.  They  have  contributed  significantly  to  fighting 
impunity  and  to  improving  general  understanding  of 
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The 
historic contributions of both Tribunals could serve to 
inspire other international and national jurisdictions, in 
particular the International Criminal Court.
(Guatemala) 
Ms.  Rodríguez  Pineda 
(spoke 
in  Spanish):  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia (ICTY), Judge Meron, for the annual reports 
of  the  ICTY  (see  A/69/225)  and  of  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  (see 
A/69/226),  and  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), Judge Joensen, 
for the annual report of the ICTR (see A/69/206). I wish 
to thank both for their excellent briefings and for their 
presentations of the reports, for which we are meeting 
in the Hall today.
With regard to the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  Rwanda,  we  are  pleased  that  the  activities  being 
carried out in the appeals cases are expected to conclude 
before  the  end  of  the  year,  with  the  exception  of  one 
case  for  which  a  final  ruling  is  expected  by  August 
2015.  In  that  spirit,  we  celebrate  the  fact  that  soon 
20  years  will  have  passed  since  the  Security  Council 
established the Tribunal. We recognize its considerable 
achievements and the progress it has made in advancing 
international criminal law, ensuring justice for victims 
and strengthening national systems.
At the same time, much work remains to be done 
before the Tribunal can close its doors. In that regard, 
I  refer  in  particular  to  the  urgent  situation  of  those 
acquitted or who have served their sentences while living 
in safe houses in Arusha. That should remain a priority, 
and the Security Council should support the Tribunal in 
its efforts to resolve the matter before it completes its 
mandate. That is an important humanitarian issue with 
significant  consequences  for  the  Security  Council’s 
credibility. We welcome the recent news that Belgium 
12/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
has responded to that call, and we urge other States to 
make efforts to resolve that persistent problem.
With  regard  to  State  cooperation,  it  should  be 
noted  that,  although  the  transfer  of  cases  to  national 
jurisdictions has facilitated the conclusion of the ICTR’s 
work, that will only be achieved in reality when all of 
its fugitives have been arrested and brought to justice, 
either through the International Residual Mechanism or 
in  national  courts.  We  trust  that  Member  States  will 
remain united in that common effort.
We congratulate the members of the International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia for their 
determination  and  for  having  adopted  measures  to 
maximize the efficiency of their judicial proceedings, 
while  maintaining  the  strictest  levels  of  procedural 
fairness.  The  personal  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
Tribunal  to  prevent  delays  and  to  strengthen  the 
Appeals Chamber are particularly noteworthy. We are 
also pleased that the International Residual Mechanism 
is now functioning, and, in particular, that the Tribunals 
have  continued  to  smoothly  transfer  functions  to  the 
Residual Mechanism’s respective branches.
The  establishment  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism ensures that the closure of both Tribunals 
will not leave the door open to future impunity for the 
remaining fugitives or jeopardize the trials and appeals 
that have not yet been concluded. Guatemala believes 
that the International Residual Mechanism is exemplary 
in  that  it  strikes  a  balance  between  two  potentially 
conflicting  requirements:  on  one  hand,  the  need  to 
respect due process and justice and, on the other hand, 
the requirement of efficiency and cost effectiveness.
That brings me to my next point, which has to do 
with cost-benefit estimates with regard to international 
tribunals.  Some  delegations  have  raised  doubts  about 
the financial cost and time required to bring a relatively 
small number of perpetrators to justice. However, the 
administration of justice cannot be measured in monetary 
terms alone. Indeed, the rule of law is priceless, and the 
impact of the tribunals cannot be measured in terms of 
the  number  of  individuals  prosecuted.  One  must  also 
take into account the tribunals’ deterrent effect and the 
fact  that  the  entire  international  community  now  has 
mechanisms to ensure that justice prevails.
We listened carefully to the concerns raised by the 
Presidents of the Tribunals with regard to the conclusion 
of their respective mandates. We share those concerns, 
particularly  with  regard  to  requests  for  extensions  of 
the  mandates  of  the  judges  of  both  Tribunals,  based 
on  the  timetable  for  the  conclusion  of  the  work  that 
they  have  yet  to  carry  out,  the  details  of  which  were 
provided  in  their  respective  reports.  The  judges  also 
raised the serious issue of the increasing attrition rate 
of  staff  and  staff  reductions.  Clearly,  the  retention  of 
competent and experienced personnel remains essential 
for the conclusion of the respective Tribunals’ work.
In that regard, we must be consistent. The Tribunals’ 
capacity  to  successfully  carry  out  their  work  must  be 
proportional to their existing mandates and the resources 
allocated to them. Therefore, it is essential to support 
the Tribunals so that they can independently carry out 
the  mandates  that  we  have  conferred  upon  them.  The 
United Nations should not sacrifice international peace 
and  security,  accountability  and  the  strengthening 
of  the  rule  of  law  –  all  hard-won  achievements  –  for 
budgetary concerns.
Given the fact that one of the Tribunals will soon 
conclude  its  mandate  and  the  other  will  conclude  its 
mandate in the near future, it is timely for us to reflect 
on the impact that the Tribunals have had, not only in 
terms of advancing the cause of international criminal 
law,  but  also  with  regard  to  the  universal  application 
of the purposes and principles of the Organization. We 
hope that further measures can be taken to preserve the 
legacy  of  both  Tribunals  and  to  facilitate  the  transfer 
of  the  knowledge  and  experience  gained  to  other 
jurisdictions.
Finally,  we  reaffirm  our  unconditional  support 
for  the  International  Tribunals  and  the  International 
Residual Mechanism, and urge all States to continue to 
provide their support until the judicial process has been 
completed.
Mr. Sarki (Nigeria): On behalf of my delegation, I 
thank you, Sir, for convening this very important debate. 
I also thank the Secretary-General for transmitting to 
us the report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (see  A/69/225)  and  the  report 
of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (see 
A/69/206).
The  subject  under  consideration  today  is  closely 
connected to discussions on the respect for the rule of 
law,  which  is  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  is  also  a  fundamental  element  of  both 
national  and  international  jurisprudence.  I  join  those 
who  have  taken  the  floor  before  me  to  thank  the 
President and Prosecutor of the International Residual 
14-56573
13/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  Judge  Theodor 
Meron and Justice Hassan Bubacar Jallow, respectively, 
for the report of the Mechanism (see A/69/226), which 
has provided useful insights to guide our deliberations 
today.
Nigeria  commends  the  two  ad  hoc  Tribunals  for 
their  trailblazing  contributions  to  the  development  of 
substantive and procedural international criminal law, 
and for their contributions to the promotion of the rule 
of law. Through their work, the international criminal 
justice  system,  the  fight  against  impunity  and  the 
ability  to  ensure  accountability  for  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity,  as  well  as  war  crimes,  have  been 
strengthened.
It  will  be  recalled  that  at  the  Security  Council 
briefing  on  16  April  to  commemorate  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda (see S/PV.7155), 
the Council adopted resolution 2150 (2014), which calls 
upon  States  to  recommit  themselves  to  preventing 
genocide and other serious crimes under international 
law. The Council affirmed that the prosecution by the 
ICTR  of  persons  responsible  for  genocide  and  other 
serious  international  crimes  has  contributed  to  the 
process of national reconciliation and to the restoration 
and  maintenance  of  peace  in  Rwanda.  Against  that 
backdrop  and  in  the  interest  of  justice,  all  Member 
States  have  a  duty  to  cooperate  with  the  ICTR,  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal 
Tribunals  and  the  Government  of  Rwanda  in  the 
arrest  and  prosecution  of  the  remaining  nine  indicted 
fugitives.
According  to  the  ICTR  report,  Member  States 
have intensified their cooperation with the objective of 
apprehending and bringing to trial, within their national 
jurisdictions,  the  Rwandan  suspects  appearing  on  the 
Interpol  list  of  wanted  fugitives.  That  is  a  welcome 
development, and we hope that it sends a clear message 
that perpetrators of mass atrocity crimes will have no 
place to hide.
Nigeria  takes  positive  note  of  the  progress  made 
by the ICTR in implementing its completion strategy, 
which has been continuously updated since 2003. The 
smooth  handover  of  most  judicial  and  prosecutorial 
functions  to  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals  is  an  important  indication 
of  that  progress.  We  note  that  the  preparation  and 
submission  of  archives  to  the  Residual  Mechanism 
are  major  challenges.  Nevertheless,  we  call  on  the 
ICTR to continue to devote attention to the process of 
transferring those records and archives to the Residual 
Mechanism.  One  immutable  fact  is  that  the  lessons 
learned  in  managing  the  judicial,  administrative  and 
prosecutorial functions of an international tribunal are 
vast,  and  sharing  them  will  allow  current  and  future 
international  and  domestic  law  practitioners  to  learn 
from the successes and challenges that form the legacy 
of the ICTR.
Concerning  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia,  it  is  significant  that  there  are 
no  more  fugitives  to  be  tried  and  that  the  Tribunal 
has  concluded  proceedings  against  141  of  the  161 
individuals whom it has indicted. That reassures us that 
the Tribunal has been making progress in completing 
its  mandate  to  meet  the  deadlines  of  the  completion 
strategy.  The  Tribunal’s  support  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism  through  a  variety  of  processes,  including 
recruitment, communications, information technology 
support and registry management, is commendable.
However,  we  are  concerned  that  various  factors, 
including  the  late  arrests  of  certain  individuals  and 
issues  that  are  particular  to  specific  cases,  could 
militate against the efforts to complete some trials and 
appeals  by  the  deadline  of  31  December  2014  and  to 
transfer them to the Residual Mechanism. The General 
Assembly  will  therefore  have  the  duty  to  revisit  the 
subject of the extension of the ICTY judges’ terms at 
some point before the end of this year. We encourage 
the Tribunal to work expeditiously towards completing 
the  outstanding  judicial  proceedings,  while  observing 
all appropriate procedural safeguards, adhering to the 
fundamental  principles  of  due  process  and  fairness 
and  ensuring  a  smooth  transition  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism.
My  delegation  welcomes 
the  assessment  and 
progress  report  of  the  President  of  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  Judge 
Theodor  Meron,  for  the  period  from  16  November 
2013 to 15 May 2014 (see S/2014/350). We are satisfied 
that,  in  accordance  with  its  mandate,  the  Residual 
Mechanism has assumed responsibility for many of the 
functions  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia. We call on the Residual Mechanism 
to continue to work closely with the principals and staff 
of both Tribunals to ensure a smooth transition of the 
remaining functions and services, and a harmonization 
and adoption of best practices.
14/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
Nigeria is committed to the fight against impunity. 
We believe that impunity must be addressed resolutely 
wherever it occurs in the world, and we have instituted 
various instruments to address that practice. Our belief 
in  the  need  for  global  action  against  mass  atrocity 
crimes and security threats to humankind underpins our 
ratification of relevant international legal instruments.
Ms.  Rambally  (Saint  Lucia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
It is also our belief that the aspiration for a global 
system based on the rule of law, where accountability 
and social justice are the foundations for a durable peace, 
should  be  a  source  of  inspiration  to  all.  Indeed,  that 
should  be  a  priority  for  the  international  community, 
for world leaders and for citizens.
Ms.  Hamilton  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States thanks Presidents Meron and Joensen for 
their reports on the work of the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  and  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  as  well 
as  for  their  tireless  work  in  advancing  global  justice. 
Reconciliation is not possible without accountability or 
without  truth,  and  the  work  of  the  Presidents  and  the 
Tribunals  has  gone  far  toward  creating  reconciliation 
and lasting peace.
the 
This  year, 
the  world  marked 
twentieth 
anniversary of the Rwandan genocide. In supporting the 
creation and work of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda (ICTR), the international community came 
together to assist Rwanda in its recovery efforts. Today, 
the work of the ICTR’s Trial Chamber is complete, and 
the  Tribunal  continues  to  work  hard  to  pass  along  its 
duties to national courts and to the Residual Mechanism. 
This  year,  the  Tribunal  transferred  one  case  to  the 
Rwandan courts for trial and sent a significant portion 
of its archives to the Residual Mechanism. By the end 
of  this  year,  the  Tribunal’s  appeals  work  is  scheduled 
to be completed in all but one case. The Tribunal has 
prepared a manual of best practices for the investigation 
and  prosecution  of  sexual  and  gender-based  violence, 
adding to its already substantial legacy. In that regard, 
the world can continue its landmark work in prosecuting 
those unspeakable crimes.
The work of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) is just as impressive. Only 
nine  cases  remain,  and  the  Tribunal  has  worked  hard 
to expedite those proceedings without sacrificing due 
process and the rights of the accused. President Meron 
wisely  precluded  delays  by  welcoming  two  additional 
judges  to  the  Tribunal,  thereby  reducing  the  chance 
that  the  judges’  workload  might  delay  the  conclusion 
of the proceedings. In addition to transferring some of 
its functions to the Residual Mechanism, the Tribunal 
has  provided  information  and  expertise  to  national 
courts in order to facilitate the domestic prosecutions 
of  crimes  committed  during  the  wars  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia,  so  that  the  important  work  begun  by  the 
Tribunal will continue after the Tribunal has completed 
its operations.
The  United  States  also  commends  the  continuing 
efforts  of  the  Tribunals  over  the  past  several  years 
to  wind  down  their  operations  and  transfer  their 
remaining  workload  to  the  Residual  Mechanism  as 
they  progress  ever  closer  to  the  completion  of  their 
historic work. The contribution of the ad hoc Tribunals 
cannot  be  overstated.  They  have  made  immeasurable 
contributions  to  the  development  of  international 
law  in  ensuring  accountability  for  genocide,  ranging 
from recognizing rape as a crime against humanity to 
compiling  data  on  how  to  prosecute  war  crimes  and 
crimes against humanity. 
it 
to 
Indeed, 
is  difficult 
imagine  modern 
international  law  today  without  the  contributions  of 
the  two  International  Criminal  Tribunals.  The  very 
existence of those Tribunals represents the commitment 
of the international community to keep moving forward, 
to  keep  improving  our  responses  to  atrocities,  and  to 
keep evolving as the human race until such abominable 
crimes are a relic of the past. The ad hoc Tribunals and 
the work they have done have not only brought justice 
to communities torn asunder; they have brought us one 
step closer to the day when we can look forward and say 
with certainty, “never again”.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): Our delegation would like to thank the Presidents 
of  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda (ICTR) for presenting to the General Assembly 
the annual reports on the activities of the Tribunals (see 
A/69/225 and A/69/206, respectively) as well as for the 
second report of the International Residual Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals (see A/69/226).
We closely follow the progress of the proceedings 
in the Tribunals and their adherence to the timetables 
for  the  completion  of  their  work,  as  established  by 
Security Council resolution 1966 (2010). We expect that 
14-56573
15/17
A/69/PV.24 
13/10/2014
the leadership of the Tribunals will step up their efforts 
with  a  view  to  accelerating  the  process  as  much  as 
possible. Unfortunately, the reports have confirmed that 
despite the work being carried out, the ICTY and ICTR 
are veering farther off track from those timetables. A 
new delay of more than six months is expected in the 
ICTY Simatović and Stanišić case. That postponement, 
according  to  the  report,  is  not  due  to  some  force 
majeure but rather to organizational problems as well 
as an improper assessment of the case.
The appellate decision handed down in January by 
the ICTY again accentuated problems of fundamental 
importance for the international criminal justice system, 
such as ensuring legal certainty and applying common 
standards  of  justice  to  all.  We  believe  that  upholding 
those  principles  is  crucial  for  the  development  of 
international criminal justice and for the legacy of the 
Tribunals.
With regard to the ICTR, unfortunately, instead of 
the expected early completion of the proceedings in the 
Butare case, the report announces an additional delay, 
even  if  only  of  a  month.  We  would  like  once  again 
to  caution  leadership  of  the  Tribunal  against  using 
technical issues to draw out its work. We are aware of 
the seriousness of the problem of finding States suitable 
for  the  resettlement  of  those  who  have  served  their 
sentences  or  been  acquitted  by  the  ICTR,  as  well  as 
the complexity of the task of tracking down fugitives. 
We  would  nevertheless  like  to  urge  the  leadership  of 
the ICTR to give priority to the main functions of the 
Tribunal  so  that  it  may  complete  its  work  in  the  near 
future, within its allocated budget.
We call on the leadership of both Tribunals, as well 
as  of  the  Residual  Mechanism,  to  take  all  necessary 
measures to swiftly transfer to the Residual Mechanism 
the  functions  that  are  not  directly  related  to  the 
proceedings. We expect in particular that the functions 
relating to the resettlement of persons acquitted by the 
ICTR  in  safe  countries  will  be  transferred  before  the 
end of this year.
The issues raised concerning the timely completion 
of the work of the Tribunals still need to be considered 
in  detail  by  the  Security  Council,  in  accordance  of 
the provisions of its resolution 1966 (2010) and in the 
context of the issue of further extending the mandate of 
the judges of the Tribunals.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  note  that  it  is 
important  that  the  Tribunals  continue  to  carry  out 
bilateral  work  with  countries  in  the  relevant  regions, 
and such developments should be strongly encouraged. 
In that regard, we support the transfer to Serbia of those 
under  its  jurisdiction  following  the  judgement  of  the 
Tribunal.
Mrs.  Byaje  (Rwanda):  I  also  wish  to  thank  the 
Presidents of the International Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia (ICTY), the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals for having presented 
their  respective  reports  (see  A/69/225,  A/69/206  and 
A/69/226).
Allow me to recall at the outset that the examination 
of those reports by the General Assembly comes a few 
months after the commemoration of the 20 years since 
the  1994  genocide  against  the  Tutsis  in  Rwanda,  but 
also a few days before the twentieth anniversary of the 
creation of ICTR through Security Council resolution 
955 (1994). My delegation commends the efforts of both 
Tribunals to successfully complete their activities and 
to hand over the remaining activities to the Mechanism, 
in conformity with pertinent resolutions of the Security 
Council.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
satisfaction  over  the  ICTR’s  recent  judgements  in  the 
three cases concerning Édouard Karemera and Mathieu 
Ngirumpatse,  Ildéphonse  Nizeyimana,  and  Callixte 
Nzabonimana.
We  particularly  commend  the  Tribunals  for  their 
contributions to international criminal justice, notably 
through  the  fight  against  impunity  for  genocide  and 
other  heinous  crimes  against  humanity  and  through 
a  rich  jurisprudence  that  will  continue  to  serve 
international criminal justice. We take this opportunity 
to recall our strong request, backed by all five States of 
the  East  African  Community,  that  the  archives  of  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda be hosted 
by  Rwanda,  in  order  to  bridge  the  distance  between 
ICTR’s justice and the victims of genocide.
In  relation  to  the  report  of  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  we  note 
with satisfaction that both the Arusha branch and the 
branch  located  in  The  Hague  are  fully  operational, 
and we appreciate the commendable support from the 
Presidents  and  key  staff  of  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR. 
However, we are deeply concerned at the fact that no 
tangible  progress  has  been  registered  in  the  tracking 
of  the  remaining  genocide  fugitives  indicted  by  the 
ICTR, notably the three key genocide suspects Félicien 
Kabuga, Augustin Bizimana and Protais Mpiranya.
16/17 
14-56573
13/10/2014 
A/69/PV.24
We therefore take this opportunity to recall the key 
provision  of  Security  Council  resolution  2150  (2014), 
which in its paragraph 3 calls upon Member States
“to  cooperate  with  the  ICTR,  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals 
and  the  Government  of  Rwanda  in  the  arrest 
and  prosecution  of  the  remaining  nine  ICTR-
indicted  fugitives,  and  further  calls  upon  States 
investigate,  arrest,  prosecute  or  extradite, 
to 
in  accordance  with  applicable 
international 
obligations, all other fugitives accused of genocide 
residing  on  their  territories,  including  those  who 
are FDLR leaders”.
I must also deplore the controversial acquittals by 
the Appeals Chamber of the ICTR. Such a stand with 
regard to the justice system is a matter of great concern 
and can only contribute to reversing the healing process 
for survivors struggling to gain a sense of closure.
In relation to the monitoring of ICTR cases referred 
to  national  jurisdictions,  under  rule  11  bis  of  the 
ICTR  statutes,  it  is  worth  highlighting  the  following 
point.  While  the  Uwinkindi  and  Munyagishari  cases, 
which  were  transferred  to  Rwanda  in  April  2012  and 
July  2013,  respectively,  are  under  trial  and  pretrial 
proceedings  before  Rwandan  courts,  the  Bucyibaruta
and  Munyeshyaka  cases,  which  were  transferred  to 
France  in  November  2007,  are  scheduled  to  be  tried 
by  French  courts  in  2015  and  2016.  We  are  therefore 
extremely  concerned  by  the  inconceivable  delay  in 
the  proceedings  in  the  cases  referred  by  the  ICTR  to 
France. In that respect, we recall the saying that “justice 
delayed is justice denied”.
As  the  ICTR  and  ICTY  have  clearly  established 
that  genocide  had  been  committed  in  Rwanda  and  in 
Srebrenica, respectively, we hereby reiterate our call on 
all, including political actors, to fight against the scourge 
of genocide denial, which is an insult to the victims and 
an obstruction to sustainable reconciliation. The fight 
against genocide denial includes, among other things, 
refraining  from  the  use  of  terminologies  conveying 
mixed  messages,  such  as  “the  Rwandan  genocide”, 
which  gives  a  pretext  to  revisionists  of  all  kinds,  as 
well  as  to  some  scholars  from  Western  countries,  to 
mislead the general public by stating that the genocide 
that  occurred  in  Rwanda  was  perpetrated  against  a 
national group, Rwandans, killing each other. We call 
on each and every one to redress the situation and use 
the terminology established by the ICTR in the Akayesu
case, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Security Council 
resolution  2150  (2014),  namely,  “genocide  against  the 
Tutsi  in  Rwanda,  during  which  Hutu  and  others  who 
opposed the genocide were also killed”.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  that  while  we 
commend  the  work  of  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR,  we 
also  urge  them  to  deploy  every  effort  to  successfully 
achieve  their  mandates,  in  conformity  with  pertinent 
resolutions of the Security Council.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on the agenda items before us.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to take note of the nineteenth annual report 
of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (see 
A/69/206)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I also take it that it is 
the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  take  note  of  the  twenty-
first annual report of the International Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia (see A/69/225)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the Assembly to take note of the second annual 
report  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals (see A/69/226)?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda items 71, 72 and 127?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m.
14-56573
17/17
