United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
30th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 28 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 40
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/98)
Draft resolution (A/69/L.4)
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the honour to address the General Assembly today on 
behalf of the 120 Members of the United Nations that 
are members of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
I  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  the  Movement’s 
the  General  Assembly  His 
warmest  welcome 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
to 
Today 
is  prepared 
the  General  Assembly 
to 
express,  for  the  twenty-third  time,  its  support  and 
solidarity with the Government and the people of Cuba 
through a decisive vote in favour of the draft resolution 
(A/69/L.4)  calling  for  lifting  of  the  United  States  of 
America embargo against Cuba. Last year, 188 of the 
193 Member States voted for the resolution on the same 
subject (resolution 68/8).
The Non-Aligned Movement has always reiterated 
its strongest opposition to unilateral coercive measures 
with  extraterritorial  effect.  NAM  has  repeatedly 
reiterated its call on the Government of the Unites States 
of  America  to  put  an  end  to  its  unilateral  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, which 
is  contrary  to  international  law,  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the norms and principles governing 
peaceful relations among States. It also violates Cuba’s 
right to interact with the international community.
The embargo has had grave adverse impacts on the 
well-being of the people of Cuba. The direct and indirect 
damage  caused  by  this  undeserved  embargo  against 
Cuba is enormous. It affects all crucial sectors of the 
economy, such as public health, nutrition, agriculture, 
banking, trade, investment and tourism. It denies Cuba 
access to markets, development aid from international 
financial  institutions  and  technology  transfers  and 
creates impediments to the socioeconomic development 
of the country. The embargo is also the main obstacle 
to broader access to the Internet, the exchange of ideas 
and  the  development  of  cultural,  sports  and  scientific 
relations.  The  continuation  of  the  embargo  is  totally 
unjustifiable  and  runs  counter  to  Cuba’s  efforts  to 
achieve  sustainable  development.  In  addition,  the 
measures  the  United  States  has  taken  unilaterally 
encroach  upon  the  rights  and  legitimate  interests  of 
Cuban nationals and third-country nationals.
Despite the enormous pressure the people of Cuba 
have endured and the hardships they have been through 
as  a  result  of  the  embargo  during  the  past  decades, 
they  are  indeed  worthy  of  praise  for  the  significant 
progress  they  have  made,  especially  in  areas  such  as 
education,  health  care  and  international  cooperation. 
The  role  of  Cuba  in  the  global  fight  against  Ebola  is 
just the most recent example, where the largest number 
of health care workers deployed in the Ebola-infected 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59193 (E)
*1459193*
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
countries in West Africa is from Cuba. Cuba’s response 
to Ebola was and continues to be far more robust than 
that of many countries that are far wealthier, and it is 
further proof of the constructive role that Cuba plays in 
international affairs.
We again recall that last year 188 States Members 
voted  in  favour  of  this  resolution  —  an  almost 
unanimous vote in demanding an end to the five-decade 
embargo and emphasizing the need to fully adhere to 
the  principles  of  mutual  respect  and  non-interference 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  Cuba.  Currently,  over  190 
nations engage economically and politically with Cuba, 
while  the  United  States  remains  alone  in  pursuing  its 
unjustified policy.
The Non-Aligned Movement once again urges the 
United  States  of  America  to  yield  to  the  will  of  the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
and  to  rectify  its  failed  policies  by  fully  complying 
with  all  General  Assembly  resolutions  calling  for  an 
immediate end to the embargo imposed on Cuba.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the 134 Member States that form part of 
the Group of 77 and China at this 30th plenary meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  agenda  item  40,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
For  a  moment,  let  us  imagine  a  Cuban  newborn 
with  a  blood  circulation  defect  that  needs  immediate 
administration  of  a  scarce  or  unavailable  medicine, 
such  as  nitric  oxide,  to  survive.  The  baby’s  life  is 
at  risk,  but  because  of  the  financial,  economic  and 
commercial  blockade  of  the  United  States  policy 
against Cuba, the medicine cannot be bought directly 
from  the  manufacturer.  That  example  illustrates  how 
human lives are threatened and how public health care 
is undermined by the embargo.
Sadly,  the  embargo  also  severely  impacts  sectors 
such as education, culture, sport, finance and banking, 
foreign  trade  and  foreign  investment.  Furthermore, 
international cooperation provided and received by the 
Cuban  people  is  extremely  affected  by  the  blockade. 
There  are  also  substantial  costs  to  Cuba’s  strategic 
tourism, 
economic  sectors,  such  as  construction, 
industry, 
and 
transportation.
energy,  mining 
communications, 
In an open violation of all the principles enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law,  the  Government  of  the  United  Sates  of  America 
has  been  systematically  suffocating  Cuba  for  more 
than  five  decades,  causing  irreparable  human  and 
social damage as well as huge material and economic 
losses for the people of Cuba, seriously threatening the 
freedom of trade and investment in that sisterly nation.
Once  again,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  demands 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  to 
put  an  end  to  the  inhumane  and  genocidal  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  and 
exhorts the international community to adopt urgent and 
effective measures to prevent the application of coercive 
unilateral  economic  measures  and  unsolicited  listings 
against  developing  countries.  The  Group  denounces 
the  persecution  of  Cuba’s 
international  financial 
transactions  abroad,  which  has  been  exacerbated  by 
the United States Office of Foreign Assets Control in 
recent years, and firmly rejects the inclusion of Cuba in 
the list of States that sponsor terrorism published by the 
State  Department  of  the  United  States  in  a  unilateral 
manner.
Despite  the  countless  difficulties  and  limitations 
experienced by Cuba due to the blockade, the country 
has  consistently  provided  generous  medical  and 
humanitarian  international  assistance  of  the  highest 
quality. Currently, there are more than 50,000 Cuban-
trained health workers providing services in 66 countries. 
Recently, a medical team of 165 professionals was sent 
to  Sierra  Leone  to  help  on  the  front  line  of  response 
efforts to Ebola.
I would like to recall the words of President Nelson 
Mandela:
“During  all  my  years  in  prison,  Cuba  was  an 
inspiration  and  Fidel  Castro  a  tower  of  strength 
...  [Cuban  victories]  destroyed  the  myth  of  the 
invincibility of the white oppressor [and] inspired 
the  fighting  masses  of  South  Africa  ...  a  turning 
point  for  the  liberation  of  our  continent  —  and 
of my people — from the scourge of apartheid ... 
What other country can point to a record of greater 
selflessness than Cuba has displayed in its relations 
to Africa? Cuba is an example in the delivery of the 
most services while expecting nothing in return.”
In  conclusion,  the  Group  firmly  urges  strict 
compliance  with 
the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions on the issue of the blockade and expresses 
2/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
its  deep  aspiration  that  the  days  of  the  embargo  are 
coming to an end and that they will soon be relegated 
to the pages of history. As President Evo Morales Ayma 
rightly stated, “The world is with Cuba”.
Allow me to say a few final words in my national 
capacity. 
I  would  like  to  thank  Cuba’s  Foreign  Minister, 
comrad Rodríguez Parrilla, for being in the Assembly 
today. Quite simply, Bolivia would like to thank Cuba. 
They  might  temporarily  be  able  to  cut  off  economic 
flows.  They  might  temporaritly  be  able  to  hamper 
foreign trade. They might temporarily be able to prevent 
medications  from  reaching  Cuba.  But  they  will  never 
be  able  to  block  Cuba’s  independence,  sovereignty, 
rebellious nature or the absolute solidarity of the Cuban 
people. I wish to thank Cuba very much — until victory 
always!
Mr.  Msosa  (Malawi):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on behalf of  the African Group. I join colleagues who 
have spoken before me to add our voice on the necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba.
More than 50 years have elapsed since the sanctions 
against  Cuba  were  imposed.  More  than  two  decades 
have passed since this item was placed on the agenda of 
the United Nations. The General Assembly has adopted 
resolutions  on  this  agenda  item  year  in  and  year  out, 
yet  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against Cuba has not been lifted.
in 
the  country.  We  believe 
The  African  Group  is  of  the  view  that  economic 
sanctions  against  Cuba  have  caused  great  economic 
hardship,  especially  for  the  poor  and  vulnerable 
populations 
that  an 
immediate end to the economic embargo against Cuba is 
necessary, and it can serve to promote social and better 
standards of life for the people of Cuba. In that regard, 
we encourage the spirit of dialogue to be employed to 
resolve the issue and therefore allow Cuba to continue 
to effectively contribute to global development.
In June, at the twenty-third ordinary session of the 
Assembly  of  the  African  Union,  held  in  Malabo,  our 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  reaffirmed  their  full 
support for the resolution on the necessity of ending the 
economic, financial and commercial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  We 
therefore reiterate the call of our principals inviting the 
Government of the United States of America to lift the 
long-standing embargo.
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  (CELAC)  on  the 
occasion  of 
introduction  of  draft  resolution 
A/69/L.4, entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
the 
each  year, 
a 
Since 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  47/19,  on 
the  General  Assembly  has 
24  November  1992, 
successively 
resolution 
adopted, 
emphasizing  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  It  will  be 
recalled  that,  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 68/8 with the same title, 
with the overwhelming support of 188 States Members 
of  the  United.  Since  1992,  22  resolutions  of  the  most 
representative  and  democratic  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  namely,  the  General  Assembly,  have  each 
time called for an end to the embargo imposed against 
Cuba. Today we are meeting to consider once again this 
draft resolution, and the Community of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  wishes  to  ratify  its  support  for 
what will be the twenty-third resolution of the General 
Assembly on the question.
It is important to reiterate the reasons underlying 
the convictions of CELAC on this subject. In our view, 
the  commercial,  economic  and  financial  embargo 
imposed on Cuba is contrary to the letter and spirit and 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and of international law. The Charter enshrines 
rights, obligations and principles that have become part 
of the legal corpus, not only of international law but of 
humankind. It must not be violated or undermined by 
any Member. Member States must align their national 
and international behaviour with the rights, obligations 
and  principles  enshrined  in  our  constituent  Charter. 
CELAC  reiterates  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations, inter alia, the principles 
of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention 
and  non-interference  in  internal  affairs,  the  freedom 
of trade and navigation, as well as the principle of the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed against Cuba began in 1959 and has continued 
14-59193
3/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
to this day. Today we observe that the embargo has been 
transformed into a strict system of unilateral measures 
that has continued over time, creating severe economic 
losses  for  the  Cuban  people  that  are  felt  in  the  most 
sensitive areas of Cuban people’s life.
We express our deep concern at the strengthening 
of the extraterritorial dimension of the embargo, as well 
as at the increasing persecution of Cuba’s international 
financial transactions in disregard of the international 
community’s  political  will,  as  reflected  in  the  draft 
resolution.  CELAC  reiterates  its  concern,  already 
expressed in resolution 68/8, regarding the application 
by Members States of laws and regulations such as the 
Helms-Burton Act, the extraterritorial effects of which 
affect the sovereignty of other States and the legitimate 
interests of entities and persons under their jurisdiction 
and the freedom of trade and navigation. The unilateral 
measures applied under the embargo imposed on Cuba 
are  affecting  many  companies  that  are  conducting 
business  with  Cuba  in  accordance  with  international 
law, including the norms established by the rules-based 
World  Trade  Organization.  In  the  last  year,  several 
restrictions  and  fines  were  imposed  on  international 
companies, some of them belonging to members of our 
Community.
CELAC  member  States  call  for  an  end 
to 
the  persecution  of  Cuba’s 
international  financial 
transactions  abroad,  which  have  been  exacerbated  by 
the  Office  of  Foreign  Assets  Control  of  the  United 
States in recent years. We would like to recall that at 
the  CELAC  Summit  held  in  Havana  on  29  January, 
the member States of our Community issued a special 
declaration on the need to put an end to the economic, 
trade  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United 
States  of  America  on  Cuba,  in  which  they  reiterated 
their strongest condemnation of the application of laws 
and measures contrary to international law, such as the 
Helms-Burton Act, including its extraterritorial effect, 
and urged the Government of the United States to put 
an  end  to  the  application  of  that  Act.  In  that  context, 
CELAC member States also adopted on 29 September 
a  special  communiqué  on  the  strengthening  of  the 
extraterritorial dimension of the economic, commercial 
and financial blockade of the United States of America 
against Cuba, as well as the increasing persecution of 
Cuban international financial transactions.
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States  is  strongly  in  favour  of  the  adoption  of  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  We 
emphasize  the  inconsistency  that  exists  between  the 
application of unilateral measures that have no backing 
in  international  law  and  the  letter  and  spirit  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. We make an urgent appeal to the United States 
of America to align its relevant national legislation with 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  General  Assembly 
resolutions, the views of the countries of Latin America 
and the Caribbean and all the regions of the world, and 
the  voice  of  its  own  people.  CELAC  is  counting  on 
the  support  traditionally  given  to  the  draft  resolution 
submitted today for consideration by this body, which 
refers to the adverse effects being inflicted on one of 
our members.
In conclusion, we call for respect, without excuses, 
for the sovereignty and self-determination of the Cuban 
nation.
Mr.  Alyas  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in Arabic):  I  am 
very pleased to address the Assembly today on behalf of 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), whose 
established position, consistent with international law, 
is  based  on  rejecting  some  States’  use  of  unilateral 
sanctions against others, and on putting an end to the 
sanctions  against  Cuba.  In  that  regard,  I  refer  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  necessity  of  ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States against Cuba (A/69/98), 
and  the  General  Assembly’s  inclusion  of  this  crucial 
item on its agenda in 1991. The debate on the subject 
has continued since then, without reaching a definitive 
solution.
The  OIC  looks  forward  to  finding  a  way  to  deal 
definitively  with  this  situation.  Despite  the  minor 
progress that has been achieved through some measures 
aimed  at  mitigating  the  sanctions,  the  effect  of  those 
steps is still limited. The embargo continues to affect, 
and  has  greatly  affected,  the  general  welfare  of  the 
Cuban people, obstructing their efforts to achieve the 
Millennium Development Goals, eradicate poverty and 
ensure  such  basic  human  rights  as  education,  food, 
national progress and health care.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
OIC’s  general  support  for  the  right  of  every  State  to 
take  whatever  measures  that  seem  necessary  to  it  in 
order  to  advance  its  development  in  accordance  with 
international  law.  The  OIC  opposes  any  unjustified 
unilateral action that might affect the sovereignty and 
4/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
interests of another State and its people. The OIC calls 
for an end to the embargo on Cuba, in accordance with 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the relevant General Assembly resolutions.
Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  I  have  the  honour 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
CARICOM aligns itself with the statements made 
by  representatives  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States.
For  the  past  22  consecutive  years,  CARICOM 
member States have gathered in this same setting to add 
our voices to the many others opposed to the imposition 
by  the  United  Stats  of  its  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo on the Republic of Cuba. Today we 
reiterate our long-standing position on the issue. For 54 
years, the people of Cuba have endured severe economic 
loss and stagnation, preventing the expansion of their 
country’s commercial ties with the rest of the world and 
with all the consequences that flow from that.
As  a  bloc  of  States,  the  Caribbean  Community 
greatly  values  the  strength  that  lies  in  its  collective 
capacity,  its  will  and  its  firm  stance  on  common 
principles  that  promote  our  shared  objectives.  Those 
principles include adherence to the Charter of the United 
Nations,  multilateralism,  sovereignty  and  free  trade. 
Accordingly, CARICOM has remained unstinting in its 
solidarity  with  Cuba  and  in  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
unilateral and unwarranted extra-territorial application 
by  the  United  States  of  its  Helms-Burton  Act,  which 
runs counter to both the letter and spirit of the Charter 
and  serves  no  justifiable  legal,  political  or  moral 
purpose within contemporary international relations.
Last  year,  188  of  the  193  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  68/8, 
under the same agenda item as today’s draft resolution 
(A/68/L.4), representing an overwhelming majority of 
the international community in their demand for an end 
to a blockade that has stifled the people of Cuba for more 
than 50 years. In spite of such significant challenges, 
Cuba continues to show itself to be a key regional and 
international  partner  and  actor.  CARICOM  member 
States,  in  keeping  with  our  policy  of  mutual  respect, 
good-neighbourliness  and  adherence  to  the  principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations, have maintained 
warm  and  fraternal  relations  with  Cuba  that  have 
remained  resilient  despite  the  continually  evolving 
hemispheric and international geopolitical landscape.
In 
the  Caribbean  subregion,  Cuba  has  built 
hospitals and clinics, provided medicines and furnished 
doctors,  nurses  and  other  health-care  professionals. 
Additionally, students from the Caribbean Community 
have  benefitted  from  free  university  educations  in 
Cuba,  and  Cuba  has  been  unselfishly  generous  to  the 
CARICOM member State of Haiti after the earthquake 
there. CARICOM looks forward to the upcoming fifth 
CARICOM-Cuba  Summit,  to  be  held  on  8  December 
in Havana. We note with appreciation that Cuba is in 
the process of mobilizing 160 doctors and nurses — the 
largest medical contingent from any single country — to 
travel  to  West  Africa  to  offer  assistance  in  the  fight 
against Ebola there.
The  CARICOM  member  States  also  continue 
to  maintain  excellent  relations  with  all  countries  in 
the  region.  In  that  spirit,  we  join  the  international 
community  in  calling  for  an  immediate  end  to  the 
embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba and its 
people.  We  furthermore  urge  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of  America  to  engage  in  a  constructive 
dialogue  with  the  Government  of  Cuba  aimed  at 
normalizing their relations. Such a step would remove a 
source of tension and conflict in the region and improve 
the prospects for peace, development and cooperation 
within it.
In support of the principles of international law and 
the United Nations Charter, CARICOM, as in previous 
years,  fully  supports  the  draft  resolution  before  the 
General  Assembly,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”, and will 
vote in favour of its adoption by the Assembly.
The  President:  Before  proceeding  any  further, 
I  would  like  to  propose  that  the  list  of  speakers  be 
closed, in view of the large number of speakers already 
inscribed on it.
It was so decided.
Mr. Estreme (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): I have 
the honour to speak on behalf of the States members of 
the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR): Brazil, 
Paraguay,  Uruguay,  Venezuela  and  my  own  country, 
Argentina.  The  associated  States  of  Bolivia,  Chile, 
Colombia,  Ecuador,  Guyana,  Peru  and  Suriname  also 
align themselves with this statement.
14-59193
5/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
At the outset, I would like to welcome the presence 
of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
Every year since 1992, the General Assembly has 
adopted a resolution calling for an end to the embargo 
on  Cuba,  with  the  support  of  the  vast  majority  of 
Member  States  and  world  opinion.  The  humanitarian 
and economic costs the embargo imposes on the Cuban 
population, as well as the anachronistic rationale behind 
it,  are  evident  to  all.  Despite  repeated  calls  from  the 
international  community  and  the  General  Assembly, 
those resolutions have not been implemented. Without a 
doubt, such disregard for the international community’s 
collective  will  undermines  United  Nations  credibility 
and weakens multilateralism.
MERCOSUR  was  founded  on  the  principles  of 
solidarity, 
interdependence  and  good-neighbourly 
relations.  We  believe  that  tolerance  is  the  foundation 
that has made possible the historic convergence on our 
continent of peoples from all corners of the world. We 
are  linked  to  our  Latin  American  neighbours  by  the 
desire to live in peace, promote mutual understanding, 
defend  independence  and  equality  among  States  and 
their sovereignty, and promote respect for international 
law.
MERCOSUR and its associated States believe that 
the embargo imposed by the United States against Cuba 
violates  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and the norms of international law, in particular 
the sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and 
non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs,  the  freedom 
of international trade and navigation, and the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  However,  the  embargo  also 
violates  the  principles  of  justice  and  human  rights.  It 
generates shortages and suffering for the entire Cuban 
population.  It  limits  and  delays  economic  and  social 
progress and prevents the achievement of international 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
including 
goals, 
We  therefore  lament  the  fact  that  the  unilaterally 
imposed  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  has  been  in 
place  for  over  half  a  century,  continues  unchanged. 
We also see with concern an increase in restrictions on 
Cuba’s financial transactions with third countries that 
prevent greater transparency through direct dialogue.
The member and associated States of MERCOSUR 
reject  on  principle  unilateral  and  extraterritorial 
measures.  We  believe 
that  such  measures  cause 
irreparable  harm  to  the  well-being  of  peoples  and 
obstruct  regional 
integration  processes.  We  also 
condemn 
the  application  of  unilateral,  coercive 
measures that contravene the principles of free trade. In 
reaffirming our unwavering support for the new draft 
resolution (A/69/L.4), MERCOSUR and its associated 
States  reiterate  their  commitment  to  multilateralism 
as a legitimate instrument for settling disputes and an 
effective way to promote international cooperation and 
understanding among peoples.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba  is  nothing  more  than  an  example 
of  obsolete  policies  that  have  no  place  in  today’s 
world.  In  that  sense,  MERCOSUR  and  its  associated 
States  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  put  an  end 
to  a  unilateral  embargo  that  is  morally  unjustifiable, 
legally  indefensible  and  contrary  in  all  its  aspects  to 
international law. By adopting the draft resolution, the 
General Assembly will prove once again its undeniable 
political will to defend the ideals of freedom, solidarity 
and respect for sovereignty and international law.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  We  welcome  the  participation  in  today’s 
discussion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, 
Mr. Bruno Eduardo Rodríguez Parrilla. We are grateful 
to the Secretary-General for preparing a comprehensive 
report  (A/69/98),  which  lays  out  the  positions  of 
Member  States  on  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  of  Cuba  by  the  United  States 
of America and includes an assessment by bodies and 
agencies of the United Nations system of the impact of 
those sanctions.
We believe a swift lifting of the anti-Cuban embargo 
is an objective and long-overdue necessity. We believe 
that unilateral economic pressure by the United States 
on Cuba, for purely political purposes, runs counter to 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations 
and has had a pernicious impact on the entire system of 
international relations.
Now,  on  the  eve  of  the  adoption  of  the  post-
2015  global  development  agenda,  the  matter  of  the 
embargo on Cuba is particularly crucial and pertinent. 
Its  ongoing  existence  threatens  possibilities  for  the 
country’s further progressive development and meeting 
future  sustainable  development  goals.  Against  that 
background,  the  Cuban  people,  while  subject  to 
sanctions  and  experiencing  significant  deprivation 
because of them, has acted as a responsible member of 
the  international  community  and,  despite  the  deadly 
6/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
threat, were among the first people to assist West Africa 
in fighting the Ebola epidemic.
region, which is another of many examples of how Cuba 
improves the quality of life in developing countries.
Guided by the fundamental principles of the Charter 
on the inadmissibility of any discriminatory measures 
or interference in a State’s domestic affairs, the Russian 
Federation and the majority of States Members of the 
United  Nations  are  decisively  in  favour  of  lifting  the 
Cuban embargo urgently. More broadly, we also favour 
rejecting  political  and  coercive  pressure  on  sovereign 
States,  which  stokes  confrontational  tendencies  in 
international relations.
Given 
those  reasons, 
the  Russian  Federation 
supports  the  draft  resolution  of  the  Assembly’s  sixty-
ninth session on the necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba (A/69/L.4) and 
will vote to adopt it. We urge all Member States to vote 
for it as well.
Mrs. Morgan (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): Mexico 
rejects  the  unilateral  actions  against  the  Republic 
of  Cuba,  including  the  imposition  for  more  than  five 
decades  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade, which is contrary to international law and the 
foundation of relations between States.
We recognize that each State is free and sovereign. 
In  accordance  with  the  principles  established  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  we  must  respect  the 
free  self-determination  of  the  peoples  of  the  world. 
We  reiterate  in  this  forum  that  the  only  bodies  with 
the capacity to apply political, economic and military 
sanctions  are  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly.  No  State  should  use  its  power  to  impose 
unilateral  actions  that  affect  the  development  and 
prosperity of other nations.
Despite the adverse circumstances it has faced for 
more than 50 years, the Republic of Cuba shows high 
levels of human development, and its achievements with 
regard  to  the  targets  in  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  are  more 
than  satisfactory.  The  full  and 
sustainable  development  of  all  persons  should  come 
before  any  political  or  economic  interest,  and  that  is 
why we commend the actions carried out by the Cuban 
Government to meet its international commitments in 
the  area  of  development  for  the  benefit  of  its  people. 
We  emphasize  that  historically  Cuba  has  transformed 
solidarity  into  a  priority  of  its  foreign  policy,  as 
confirmed by its support in the head-on fight against 
Ebola  in  Africa  and  its  prevention  activities  in  the 
Mexico  recognizes  and  supports  the  process  of 
modernizing  Cuba’s  economic  and  social  model,  and 
we support each other when so required. Mexico wishes 
Cuba  every  success  in  that  important  task,  which  is 
crucial for the sustainable future of its economy and the 
welfare of its population. The Government of Mexico 
is  consolidating  its  political  and  trade  relations  with 
Cuba, taking as a framework the strengthening of the 
Economic  Complementation  Agreement  No.51.  In  a 
context of change, Mexico believes that the elimination 
of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
against  Cuba  would  facilitate  the  restructuring  of  its 
economy, allowing its full reintegration and access to 
international trade and investment, with clear benefits 
for our region.
Mexico  has  never  broken  its  fraternal  bonds  of 
friendship, solidarity and respect for the Cuban people. 
Once  again,  we  express  our  support  for  the  draft 
resolution submitted for the Assembly’s consideration 
to end the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against Cuba .
Mr.  Narang  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
acknowledge  the  presence  here  of  the  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
India associates itself with the statement delivered 
earlier by the representative of Bolivia on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  and  also  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Iran on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
The 
five-decade  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba 
is the subject of discussion for the twenty-third year in 
succession in the General Assembly. In all those years, 
the Assembly has repeatedly rejected the imposition of 
laws  and  regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and 
all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that 
hurt  the  progress  and  prosperity  of  people  the  world 
over. The Assembly has also called upon all States, in 
conformity  with  their  obligations  under  the  Charter 
of the United Nations and international law, to refrain 
from  promulgating  and  applying,  and  to  repeal  and 
invalidate, laws and measures that have extraterritorial 
impacts affecting the sovereignty of other States.
The  continued  existence  of 
in 
contravention  of  world  opinion  as  expressed  by 
the  Assembly,  undermines  multilateralism  and  the 
the  embargo, 
14-59193
7/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
credibility of the United Nations itself. The embargo is a 
violation of the right of a sovereign State to development 
and  to  enjoy  the  freedom  of  trade,  economy  and 
navigation.  India  strongly  supports  the  unambiguous 
rejection  by  the  international  community  of  domestic 
laws  having  extraterritorial 
impact.  Embargoes 
impede  the  full  achievement  of  economic  and  social 
development by the population of the affected country, 
in particular children and women. They also hinder the 
full enjoyment of human rights, including the rights to 
development,  food,  medical  care  and  social  services, 
among other things.
This embargo, particularly through its extraterritorial 
effects, is adversely affecting the Cuban people and the 
development efforts of that country. At a time of slow 
global  recovery  from  the  global  financial  crisis  and 
overall deceleration in global growth, the embargo has 
had  a  deleterious  impact  on  the  Cuban  economy.  The 
denial to Cuba of access to the United States market, 
investment, technology, financial services and scientific, 
educational, cultural and sporting institutions has had 
enormous consequences. The Cuban economy has been 
forced  to  bear  considerable  extra  costs  for  sourcing 
products, technology and services from third countries 
located  thousands  of  kilometres  away.  Moreover, 
the  extraterritorial  application  of  the  United  States 
embargo  has  discouraged  investment  and  technology 
transfer  and  has  suppressed  other  forms  of  business 
collaboration between Cuba and third countries.
The report of the Secretary General on the agenda 
item under consideration (A/69/98) is illustrative of the 
detrimental impact the embargo has had on international 
efforts  to  undertake  socioeconomic  advancement  in 
Cuba.  The  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean notes in its report how the embargo 
seriously  impairs  the  economic  development  of  the 
island and inflicts grave harm on the Cuban population, 
including by curtailing the positive effects of measures 
recently  implemented  in  Cuba  in  connection  with  its 
economic and social policy guidelines and the updating 
of  its  economic  model.  The  Commission  pointed  out 
that  the  embargo  forces  Cuba  to  pay  extra  insurance 
and  freight  charges  and  more  for  foreign  exchange 
transactions,  which  in  turn  drives  up  the  credit  risk 
premiums in trade with Cuba.
The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO) 
assertion 
the  embargo  has  very  negative 
implications  for  Cuba’s  food  supply  and  agriculture 
and  that  it  has  a  direct  effect  the  food  security  of 
that 
vulnerable segments of the Cuban population is indeed 
a serious one. In fact, as FAO attests in its submission, 
the embargo even affects the operation of entities and 
international  organizations  like  FAO  in  Cuba,  raising 
their  operating  costs  and  costs  of  procuring  essential 
supplies and processing financial transactions. On the 
human side, the International Labour Organization has 
pointed out how the restrictions imposed on the transfer 
of remittances from Cuban workers living in the United 
States limit the available family income of their Cuban 
relatives at home.
The  Office  of  the  Resident  Coordinator  of  the 
United  Nations  system  for  Operational  Activities  for 
Development has documented what it calls the pervasive 
impact  of  the  embargo  on  the  social,  economic  and 
environmental  dimensions  of  human  development  in 
Cuba,  affecting  the  most  vulnerable  socioeconomic 
groups of the Cuban population in particular.
In  today’s  age  of  the  Internet,  when  the  United 
Nations  repeatedly  emphasizes  the  importance  and 
the  catalytic  role  of  information  and  communications 
technologies,  it  is  paradoxical  that  the  embargo  has 
contributed  to  a  significantly  low  level  of  Internet 
penetration  in  Cuba,  as  the  submission  of  the  United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development notes. In 
that context, in spite of the difficult conditions imposed 
upon  it,  the  human  development  achievements  of 
Cuba, in particular its high Human Development index 
ranking  and  its  achievement  of  several  Millennium 
Development Goals before the deadline, are even more 
remarkable and commendable.
The  continued  existence  of  the  embargo  and 
its  devastating  effects  on  a  developing  country  are 
particularly incongruous in a year when the international 
community is getting together to chart a new collective 
vision for sustainable development under the post-2015 
development agenda. India believes in the need to create 
and  strengthen  an  enabling  international  economic 
environment capable of providing equal opportunities 
to all countries. Even more important, we feel that the 
international  community  needs  to  redouble  its  efforts 
to  promote  an  environment  free  from  sanctions  and 
embargoes.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  affirming  that  India 
joins other nations in calling for an immediate end to 
the United States embargo against Cuba, and that India 
supports the draft resolution to be introduced by Cuba 
today.
8/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  First,  I  would  like 
to  welcome  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and to 
convey through him the greetings of the people and the 
Government of Algeria.
itself  with 
to  associate 
Algeria  wishes 
the 
statements  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
representative of Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  the  representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  African  States,  and  the  representative 
of  Saudi  Arabia  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic Conference.
Algeria  reiterates  its  deep  concern  about  the 
continuation of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo unilaterally imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba for more than five decades. For 
many  years  now,  members  of  the  General  Assembly 
have  adopted  almost  unanimously  a 
resolution 
calling for the lifting of that embargo. Through those 
resolutions, the international community has continued 
to  affirm  that  Cuba,  like  all  other  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations,  has  the  right  to  freedom  of  trade 
and navigation and to expand its relations with all its 
economic partners.
Algeria’s principled positions are well known and 
remain unchanged. In accordance with the principles of 
its foreign policy, Algeria cannot accept the very idea of 
the extraterritorial application of laws nor all forms of 
coercive economic and trade measures. They contradict 
international law and the purposes and principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Every  Member  State 
should respect the principles of the Charter, including 
in particular the sovereign equality of States, territorial 
integrity and non-intervention and non-interference in 
a country’s internal affairs.
No  one  one  can  deny  that  the  blockade  has  a 
negative effect on the well-being of the Cuban people 
on  a  daily  basis  and  causes  huge  material  losses  and 
economic damages to Cuba. Those consequences have 
been exacerbated by the adverse effects of the ongoing 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  which  has 
seriously  compromised  Cuba’s  development  efforts. 
That  is  highlighted  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary 
General  (A/69/98),  which  presents  the  views  and 
information provided by more than 120 countries and 
by a great number of entities and agencies of the United 
Nations system concerning the implementation of last 
year’s  resolution  68/8.  The  embargo  frustrates  efforts 
to  achieve  all  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals, 
all-important  Millennium 
Development Goals, and negatively affects South-South 
cooperation and international cooperation generally.
including 
the 
We must add that we are convinced that the lifting of 
the embargo against Cuba will benefit everyone. Cuba 
has demonstrated its positive and constructive share in 
international relations. Today I have to mention Cuba’s 
extremely  positive  commitment  to  the  international 
fight against Ebola. It deserves praise and respect.
One must also recall the long-standing positions of 
the Non-Aligned Movement and of the Group of 77 and 
China on this issue. Accordingly, Algeria will vote in 
favour of the draft resolution.
Mrs. Nguyen Phuong Nga (Viet Nam): As this is 
the  first  time  I  take  the  floor  at  this  session,  I  would 
like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to serve 
as the President of the General Assembly. I would also 
like to extend my warmest welcome to His Excellency 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
delivered earlier by the representative of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement, and by the representative 
of Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Since 1992, the General Assembly has adopted, by 
an  overwhelming  majority,  annual  resolutions  calling 
for the lifting of the embargo unilaterally imposed by 
the United States against Cuba. We share the view of the 
international community that the embargo contravenes 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and international law. It also violates universally 
recognized  norms  governing  relations  among  States, 
such  as  sovereign  equality,  non-interference  in  each 
other’s internal affairs, the right of self-determination 
and peaceful coexistence.
The  embargo  has  resulted  in  enormous  suffering 
for the Cuban people, hindered international investment 
and commercial relations of other countries with Cuba, 
as  well  as  Cuba’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  also  constitutes  an  obstacle  to 
the future implementation of the post-2015 development 
agenda.
Despite  hardship,  the  Government  and  people  of 
Cuba  have  attained  significant  achievements  in  many 
important areas, especially education and health care. 
We appreciate Cuba’s continued active contribution to 
14-59193
9/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
promoting international cooperation to address global 
challenges.  The  deployment  of  165  Cuban  medical 
professionals in West Africa to fight against the ongoing 
Ebola  crisis  has  clearly  demonstrated  that  Cuba  is  an 
active  and  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community.
Viet Nam champions peaceful solutions to all disputes 
and  differences  between  States  in  accordance  with 
international  law,  as  dialogue  and  negotiation  —  not 
violence, coercion and embargoes — are key to a just 
and  lasting  peace.  Viet  Nam  joins  the  international 
community  to  call  on  the  United  States  to  fully 
implement  the  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  to 
end  its  five-decades-old  embargo  against  Cuba.  That 
would  significantly  contribute  to  peace,  stability  and 
development in the world.
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
Viet Nam’s friendship, cooperation and solidarity with 
the people of Cuba. Viet Nam will do its utmost to help 
Cuba overcome the difficulties and challenges caused 
by the embargo.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
representative of Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China.
For  22  consecutive  years,  the  General  Assembly 
has adopted, by an overwhelming majority, resolutions 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba, urging all countries to comply 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  norms 
of  international  law  and  to  repeal  or  invalidate  any 
laws  or  measures  with  extraterritorial  effects  on  the 
sovereignty  of  other  States,  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests of entities and persons under their jurisdiction 
and the freedom of trade and navigation.
the  years 
Regrettably,  however,  over 
those 
resolutions  have  not  been  implemented  effectively, 
and the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  has  not 
been  lifted.  That  has  not  only  violated  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter and the relevant General 
Assembly  resolutions,  but  has  also  inflicted  huge 
economic  and  financial  losses  on  Cuba.  It  impedes 
efforts  by  the  Cuban  people  to  eradicate  poverty, 
promote  economic  and  social  development  and  attain 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  impairs  their 
rights  to  survival  and  development  and  adversely 
affects  normal  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
relations between Cuba and other countries.
At a time when the recovery of the world economy 
is  still  weak  and  the  international  community  suffers 
from  a  multitude  of  challenges,  such  as  the  food  and 
energy  crises  and  climate  change,  the  existence  of 
the embargo and sanctions against Cuba is even more 
unjustifiable.
The  Chinese  Government  has  always  maintained 
that  relations  between  countries  should  be  based  on 
the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter. 
The  right  of  all  countries  to  independently  choose 
their  social  system  and  path  of  development  should 
be  respected.  The  unilateral  imposition  of  military, 
political,  economic  or  other  sanctions  against  certain 
countries  should  be  opposed.  For  its  own  part,  China 
has  always  strictly  observed  and  implemented  the 
relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions.  At  present, 
China and Cuba have maintained normal economic and 
trade  relations  and  conducting  personnel  exchanges 
over  the  years.  Our  mutually  beneficial  and  friendly 
cooperation in various areas continues to grow. That is 
consistent with the aspirations of the two peoples and is 
conducive to Cuba’s economic and social development.
Against  the  backdrop  of  a  multipolar  world, 
economic  globalization,  cultural  diversity  and  the 
democratization  of  international  relations,  there  is 
an  irreversible  trend  towards  communication  and 
cooperation  on  an  equal  footing  among  all  countries. 
When differences arise between countries, dialogue on 
an  equal  footing  and  consultation  on  a  friendly  basis 
are the best means of reaching a solution.
Like  most  other  countries,  China  hopes  that  the 
United  States,  in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  the  General  Assembly’s 
resolutions, will end its embargo against Cuba as soon 
as possible and that relations between the two countries 
will  continue  to  improve,  thereby  promoting  stability 
and  development  in  the  entire  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean region.
China will again vote in favour of draft resolution 
A/69/L.4, to be submitted by Cuba under this agenda 
item.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  Allow  me  to  join 
others in welcoming the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Cuba to New York.
10/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
I  would  like  to  begin  by  aligning  this  statement 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
States;  replace  confrontation  with  engagement,  open 
the doors of diplomacy and allow the seeds of mutual 
cooperation to bear fruit.
My delegation takes the floor to speak on agenda 
item 40 and, in particular on draft resolution A/69/L.4, 
entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”.  My  delegation  thanks  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
annual  report  (A/69/98).  Solomon  Islands  and  eight 
other  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  made 
submissions  to  the  report,  joining  the  more  than  150 
countries that contributed to the report’s content.
This item has come before the General Assembly 
for the last 21 sessions, and this is the twenty-second 
session  in  which  we,  the  international  community, 
continue to consider it.
international 
All  of  us,  particularly  small  developing  States, 
law  and  multilateralism.  Our 
value 
interests  are  better  served  when  everyone  operates 
under the same rules and in strict compliance with the 
purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and various legal instruments. The 
Charter  for  us  is  our  first  and  last  line  of  defence  of 
our sovereignty and security. Multilateralism for us is 
an equalizer. The draft resolution before the Assembly 
upholds  the  Charter’s  principles  and  calls  for  respect 
for  the  sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States. 
That is central to all our foreign policies.
Draft resolution A/69/L.4 also is about the freedom 
of  international  trade,  the  freedom  to  choose  one’s 
political  system  and  the  freedom  to  adopt  one’s  own 
economic  system.  Cuba  has  demanded  that  freedom 
peacefully and multilaterally for more than two decades 
now. It is now more than 50 years since United States 
unilateral embargo was imposed on Cuba. The long and 
firm grip of the United States over Cuba has challenged 
the  notion  that  everyone  is  born  equal.  We  on  the 
periphery of the international system keep calling for 
a  just,  fair  and  equitable  system.  We  hope  that  those 
with  absolute  power  will  provide  that  space.  In  that 
connection, the draft resolution speaks of our interests.
To  our  friend  and  partner  the  United  States,  se 
say: in the name of justice, freedom and human rights, 
cast  off  the  chains  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  on  Cuba;  allow  freedom  and  good 
neighbourly  relations  to  grow  roots  between  the  two 
Because of a crisis in the past century, the United 
States of America imposed an embargo against Cuba. 
Because  of  a  crisis  in  the  twenty-first  century,  an 
opportunity  exists  to  reset  relations  between  the  two 
neighbouring States. The United States contribution in 
combating  Ebola  and  garnering  international  support 
against  it,  and  Cuba’s  human-resources  response  to 
affected  countries,  send  a  message  of  hope  to  the 
world. Both countries, united against a common cause, 
can do more for the world. My delegation appeals for 
strong  political  will  on  the  part  of  the  United  States 
to  lift  the  embargo  on  Cuba  and  to  allow  trust  and 
confidence-building  cooperation  between 
two 
Governments to develop and expand.
the 
My delegation wishes to acknowledge the resilience 
of  the  Government  and  people  of  Cuba,  as  stated  by 
Cuban  Foreign  Minister  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla 
last month at the General Assembly (see A/69/PV.15). 
In  the  five  decades  of  the  blockade,  Cuba  has  sent 
out  324,000  health  workers  assisting  158  countries 
and  trained  more  than  38,000  medical  doctors  in  121 
countries. Eight Pacific small island developing States 
have sent just under 200 medical students to Cuba for 
training.  Solomon  Islands  saw  its  first  100  medical 
students graduate last July. More than 20 are expected 
to graduate next summer. Health remains a prerequisite 
for sustainable development. Cuba continues to invest 
in  our  youth,  which  will  not  only  change  our  health 
system as more doctors serve among our people but will 
also  create  a  healthy,  vibrant  and  productive  society. 
We thank Cuba for that.
Solomon Islands supports the draft resolution in its 
entirety. We do so in solidarity with Cuba. We vote for 
peace, equality and justice.
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt):  I  would  like  first  to 
welcome His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and assure him of 
Egypt’s continued support and solidarity.
In  an  era  in  which  the  free  people  of  the  world 
are  taking  the  lead  in  shaping  the  future  of  global 
cooperation and in bridging the gaps in views and goals, 
focusing  on  paving  the  path  towards  the  sustainable 
development  goals  and  setting  aside  the  grudges  of 
the past; in a world marked by years of suffering and 
tears  —  a  cost  that  made  the  world  wiser  and  more 
14-59193
11/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
mature — unfortunately we still hear echoes from the 
past that insist on recalling the ugly age of confrontation 
and  unilateral  aggressive  measures,  which  the  world 
surpassed a long time ago.
On  19  October  1960,  the  United  States  imposed 
its  unjust  and  unjustifiable  unilateral  embargo 
on  Cuba,  which  has  lasted  longer  than  any  other 
embargo in the modern era. The world has profoundly 
changed  since  then.  Yet,  “el  bloqueo”  persists,  in 
total  violation  of  international  law,  the  principles 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  principles  of 
the  Organization  of  American  States  —  the  regional 
organization  to  which  the  United  States  belongs. 
Needless to say, the extraterritorial measures imposed 
by  the  embargo  contravene  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States,  non-intervention  in  their  internal  affairs  and 
the  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation  as  paramount 
principles in the conduct of international affairs.
For  five  decades,  the  United  States  has  tightened 
limits on the Cuban people’s access to food, medicine, 
education  and  high-technology  goods.  The  embargo 
has  inflicted  damaging  repercussions  not  only  on  the 
financial, banking, trade and investment sectors of the 
Cuban  economy,  but  also  on  health,  nutrition,  water 
quality, education and culture. The economic sanctions 
against  Cuba  have  cost  the  country  $3.9  billion  in 
foreign  trade  over  the  past  year,  raising  the  overall 
estimate of economic damage to $116.8 billion over the 
past 55 years. In spite of the detrimental repercussions 
of  the  embargo,  the  Government  of  Cuba  has  made 
enormous efforts to meet the needs of its people.
What  has  been  proven  over  the  course  of  more 
than  54  years  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  that  in 
this globalized world, Cuban people can still survive, 
thanks to their perseverance. The embargo is a relic of 
the Cold War that is increasingly hard to justify morally 
or politically. We do not need to remind ourselves that 
insistence on an historical mistake for years will never 
make it right.
Finally,  we  once  again  urge  the  United  States 
to  immediately  and  fully  comply  with  the  General 
Assembly  resolutions  that  since  1992  have  called  for 
the  immediate  end  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo imposed against Cuba.
Egypt will continue sending a clear message to the 
United States:
(spoke in Spanish)
End  the  embargo  now  and  long  live  the  Cuban 
people!
Mr.  Moncada  (Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We welcome the presence of the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.
Venezuela endorses the statements delivered by the 
representatives of Costa Rica and the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States and the Non-Aligned Movement, 
respectively.
Our country reiterates its rejection of the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba for more than 
54 years. It is an illegal policy that flagrantly violates 
international  law  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, namely, non-intervention, the legal 
equality  of  States,  respect  for  sovereignty,  refraining 
from  threats  or  the  use  of  force,  and  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
The  United  States  has  deliberately  ignored  calls 
by  the  international  community  urging  it  to  take 
urgent measures to stop that immoral policy. With its 
dismissive attitude towards world opinion, the United 
States  has  become  the  most  isolated  country  in  the 
world.
The  embargo  is  an  aggressive  action  that  seeks 
to  overthrow  the  Government  of  Cuba  and,  as  such, 
violates the principle of non-interference in the internal 
affairs  of  other  States.  The  United  States  is  thereby 
losing  all  authority  when  it  seeks  to  accuse  other 
countries of deficiencies.
Venezuela  reiterates  its  strongest  condemnation 
of the enactment and enforcement of laws contrary to 
international  law,  such  as  the  Torricelli  Act  and  the 
Helms-Burton  Act,  and  their  extraterritorial  effects, 
which  affect  the  freedom  of  international  trade  and 
prevent  third  countries  from  undertaking  economic, 
financial and commercial transactions with Cuba. The 
United  States  Government  does  not  have  universal 
authority over the sovereignty of other States, and its 
intention  to  convert  its  national  laws  into  universal 
laws is spurious.
The  embargo  systematically  violates  the  human 
rights  of  Cuban  citizens,  in  particular  their  economic 
and social rights, making it difficult for the Government 
of  Cuba  to  buy  food,  medical  equipment,  medicine 
12/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
and  services  on  the  international  market  to  meet  the 
basic needs of its people. Generations of Cubans have 
therefore  been  victims  of  the  effects  of  that  measure, 
which deals a serious blow to their quality of life.
The  embargo  also  attempts  to  extend  itself  to  the 
financial  arena.  The  United  States  illegally  threatens 
and punishes financial institutions beyond its territory 
for  performing  perfectly  legal  transactions  with  the 
Government  of  Cuba.  In  that  regard,  we  reject  the 
harassment  by  the  United  States  authorities  of  banks 
that  work  with  that  brother  country  despite  United 
States  efforts  to  economically  suffocate  Cuba.  We 
must  denounce  the  fact  that  the  Cuban  Consulate  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  has  been  deprived  of  financial 
services for over a year.
Unfortunately,  the  United  States’  conduct  runs 
counter  to  the  spirit  of  the  Charter,  and  its  violations 
of human rights run counter to the letter of the Charter. 
Venezuela  will  continue  to  demand  that  the  United 
States  Government  respect  the  fundamental  rights  of 
the Cuban people.
Finally,  Venezuela  will  once  again  vote  in  favour 
of draft resolution A/69/L.4, demanding an end to that 
destructive policy.
Mr.  Mamabolo  (South  Africa):  We  wish 
to 
acknowledge the presence of the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
My delegation would also like to align itself with 
statements delivered by the representative of Bolivia on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the representative 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and 
by the representative of Malawi on behalf of the Africa 
Group.
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/69/98)  entitled  “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. This is the twenty-third consecutive year 
that the Assembly considers a draft resolution entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”  (A/69/L.4).  We  meet  here 
again  because  the  United  States  has  ignored  the 
overwhelming will of the international community that 
that debilitating embargo be lifted.
The  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  by  the  United 
States violates the rights of the people of Cuba in every 
social sector and is a long-standing obstacle to its right 
as  a  country  to  develop.  The  future  and  dreams  of 
Cuban  children  continue  to  remain  bleak  and  blurred 
by the draconian legislation that imposed the blockade, 
which  fails  to  recognize  the  sovereignty  of  States 
and their responsibility to protect their citizens under 
international law.
The  blockade  against  Cuba  must  end  now,  lest 
history  blame  us  for  failing  the  Cuban  people.  All 
countries  deserve  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  globalization, 
which  needs  to  be  made  meaningful  and  tangible  for 
their  people.  The  United  States’  unilateral  action  is 
counter to the letter and the spirit of international law, 
including the Charter of the United Nations and other 
international laws.
to  end 
it 
the  embargo,  as 
The  United  States  has  a  historical  and  moral 
responsibility 
is 
counterproductive  and  pugnacious  in  its  form  and 
nature.  Yet  the  United  States  Government  persists 
with  its  intransigence,  as  illustrated  by  the  recently 
approved  Consolidated  Appropriations  Act  for  fiscal 
year 2014, which reiterates clauses prohibiting United 
States banking institutions from engaging in financial 
transactions  with  several  countries,  including  Cuba. 
The  United  States  blockade  policy  against  Cuba  is 
rendering  it  impossible  for  that  sister  country  of 
ours to have an unfettered right to export and import 
products  and  services  to  and  from  the  United  States 
and is being barred from using the United States dollar 
in  its  international  financial  transactions  or  to  have 
accounts  in  that  currency  in  third-country  banking 
institutions.  That  is,  inter  alia,  inconsistent  with  the 
values  espoused  under  the  Doha  Declaration  and  the 
Monterrey Consensus on financing for developmen,and 
the goals that we are attempting to set for ourselves in 
the post-2015 development agenda process.
The imposition of the embargo negatively impacts 
foreign  trade  and  the  promotion  of  foreign  direct 
investment in Cuba. The Cuban Government has in the 
past asked the World Trade Organization to rule against 
the  four-decade-long  United  States  embargo.  That  is 
another example to indicate that Cuba seeks to act in 
accordance  with  the  rules-based  global  governance 
system  and  strives  to  comply  with  international  rules 
governing relations, both economic or political, among 
States.
Cuba  is  also  barred  from  accessing  bank  credit 
in the United States and credit from affiliates in third 
countries  or  from  international  financial  institutions, 
14-59193
13/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
such  as  the  World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  and  the  Inter-American  Development  Bank. 
Those measures continue to harm the Cuban economy 
and must be stopped now.
The blockade is an enormous assault on the social 
and  psycho-social  fibre  of  the  Cuban  people,  and  it 
imposes serious obstacles upon its economic, cultural 
and social development. That illegal policy touches on 
each  and  every  aspect  of  the  existence  of  the  Cuban 
people, and its effects run deep.
Despite all the challenges imposed by the blockade, 
the Cuban people have remained staunch and resilient 
in  their  national  consciousness  and  identity,  so  as  to 
keep  on  fighting  this  injustice.  They  remain  hopeful 
that one day victory will be realized. The Cubans are a 
peace-loving nation. They are not at war with the United 
States,  nor  do  they  wish  to  engage  in  any  belligerent 
exchanges with the Americans and their allies.
In  spite  of  the  embargo,  Cuba’s  goodwill  as  a 
responsible  international  partner  is  evident  all  over 
the  world,  as  is  illustrated  in  its  early  and  heroic 
interventions to assist in the fights against the spread of 
Ebola in West Africa. Ironically, even the United States 
has now agreed to cooperate with Cuba in that global 
crisis.
Currently, our Deputy Minister of the Department of 
International Relations and Cooperation, Mr. Luwellyn 
Landers, is in Cuba leading the South African delegation 
participating  in  several  events  to  commemorate  20 
years of freedom and diplomatic relations between the 
two  countries.  South  Africa  has  been  a  beneficiary 
of  Cuba’s  ongoing  assistance  in  support  of  the  five 
priorities  of  the  South  African  Government,  through 
joint programmes in health, labour, social development, 
housing  and  infrastructure.  More  than  1,800  South 
African  students  are  currently  receiving  medical 
training  in  Cuba  this  year,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
South Africa-Cuba health cooperation agreement, with 
a  further  620  students  preparing  to  join  the  group  in 
October.  More  than  420  South  African  students  from 
disadvantaged  backgrounds  have  graduated  in  Cuba 
as  medical  doctors,  providing  much-needed  primary 
health-care services to their local communities.
the  people  of  Cuba  to  break  free  from  the  unjust  and 
archaic  act  of  economic  repression  against  the  Cuban 
people. I wish to reiterate here that South African will 
support the draft resolution (A/69/L.4) to be introduced 
by the representative of Cuba.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Colombia associates itself with the statements delivered 
earlier  by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
representative of the Plurinational State of Bolivia on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the representative 
of Costa Rica on behalf of the Economic Commission 
for  Latin  America  and 
the 
representative of Argentina on behalf of the Common 
Market of the South and associated States.
the  Caribbean,  and 
I  would  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and his 
delegation  who  are  here  today.  As  everyone  who  has 
taken  the  floor  before  me  has  said,  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba is contrary to international law and to the spirit 
and principles that inspired the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Since 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  47/19,  on 
24 November 1992, Colombia, together with all of the 
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean and the 
vast majority of the Member States, has expressed its 
support  for  Cuba  by  voting  for  the  annual  resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba.” That support was reflected in 
the  188  votes  in  favour  of  resolution  68/8,  adopted  at 
the  previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  which 
emphasizes  the  need  to  end  that  policy,  which  dates 
back over 50 years, as has been expressed on various 
occasions by the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel 
Santos Calderón.
In  accordance  with  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
(A/69/L.4), my country reaffirms its policy of respect 
for  international  law  and  the  principles  of  political 
independence,  the  free  self-determination  of  peoples 
and  non-intervention  and  non-interference 
the 
internal affairs of other nations.
in 
South  Africa  unequivocally  supports  the  Cuban 
people in their struggle for economic freedom through 
the lifting of the economic, financial and commercial 
blockade. The United States Government should heed 
the  calls  of  the  international  community  and  allow 
Colombia does not support the kind of measures that 
run counter to the economic, commercial development 
and welfare of Cuba’s population. My country considers 
it indispensable that Member States make progress in 
building links of cooperation and friendship based on 
14/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
multilateralism and the principle of sovereign equality, 
enshrined  in  Chapter  I  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to welcome Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, who honours us 
with his presence in the Hall.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Bolivia on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China, the representative of Costa 
Rica on behalf of the Economic Commission for Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  the  representative 
of Argentina on behalf of the Common Market of the 
South.  We  would  now  like  to  deliver  the  following 
statement in our national capacity.
Brazil reiterates its firm rejection of the economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, as we 
reject the extraterritorial application of domestic trade 
laws and of discriminatory trade practices that hinder 
the  development  of  Cuba  and  ultimately  affect  the 
lives  and  well-being  of  its  citizens.  Brazil  calls  upon 
Governments  not  complying  with  resolution  68/8  to 
take urgent steps to decisively eliminate discriminatory 
trade practices and to end economic, commercial and 
financial embargoes adopted unilaterally.
As a founding nation of the United Nations, which 
next  year  will  celebrate  its  seventieth  anniversary  of 
promoting a culture of peace in the world, Brazil calls 
upon all Governments to show respect and commitment 
to international law, diplomacy, the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes,  trade  and  economic  cooperation,  and 
respect for the purposes and principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations.
In  addition  to  the  adverse  impacts  of  unilateral 
measures  on  the  Cuban  people,  the  extraterritorial 
nature  of  those  measures  shows  that  they  are  in 
contradiction with the basic principles of international 
law,  in  particular  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  the 
freedom  to  trade  and  to  navigate.  We  consider  the 
effects  of  the  embargo  unacceptable,  especially  when 
they have an impact on humanitarian aid.
Unilateral blockades and embargoes — apart from 
being illegal under the Charter of the United Nations — are 
contrary  to  human  rights  law,  humanitarian  law  and 
refugee  law,  and  they  harm  populations,  especially 
women  and  children,  who  should  be  protected  as  a 
priority,  especially  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable 
segments of the population.
Brazil welcomes the progress that Cuba has made 
in modernizing its economic model. To continue on that 
path, Cuba requires the support of its partners near and 
far. Cooperation with Cuba, however, is systematically 
hampered  by  an  illegal,  illegitimate  and  inhuman 
economic embargo.
The  Government  of  Brazil  will  continue  not  only 
to  oppose  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba,  but  we  will  also  develop  a 
growing and promising relationship of social, political 
and economic friendship with that country to promote 
its  development,  in  the  spirit  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  integration,  according  to  the  principles  of 
solidarity.
Today  there  is  consensus  among  Latin  American 
and Caribbean countries with regard to the impossibility 
of future Summits of the Americas taking place without 
the  participation  of  Cuba.  There  are  no  Americas 
without  the  full  participation  of  Cuba  in  all  areas  of 
regional relations. Brazil will vote in favour of the draft 
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba” (A/69/L.4).
Mr.  Silwamba 
this 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  discussion  on  this 
important agenda item.
(Zambia): 
I  appreciate 
Zambia aligns itself with the statements delivered 
by the representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and Bolivia on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/69/98)  and  the  views  expressed  therein. 
Zambia  has  been  supporting,  voting  and  speaking  in 
favour of the resolutions on this agenda item for over 
two  decades,  the  period  in  which  the  Assembly  has 
been  considering  the  item.  Today,  we  again  reaffirm 
our full support for this year’s draft resolution on the 
subject (A/69/L.4).
Zambia  continues  to  be  greatly  concerned  that, 
after 52 years of the embargo and 22 consecutive annual 
Assembly resolutions calling for an end to the unilateral 
coercive measures against Cuba, little has changed on 
the ground. In keeping with the norms of international 
law,  including  the  overwhelming  annual  votes  in  the 
Assembly,  Zambia  strongly  urges  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to  lift  the  embargo. 
Zambia  regrets  the  untold  suffering  that  the  decades-
long economic, commercial and financial embargo has 
14-59193
15/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
caused  the  Cuban  people.  In  particular,  the  right  of 
Cubans  to  influence  their  own  development  path  has 
been  severely  restricted,  with  access  to  international 
technology  and  expertise  in  critical  sectors  such  as 
finance,  technology,  education  and  health  greatly 
curtailed.
Zambia  therefore  strongly  supports  the  United 
Nations decisions on the subject, particularly through 
the  most  recent  resolution  (resolution  68/8),  which 
reaffirmed the resounding call to end the sanctions on 
Cuba. It remains Zambia’s concern that the continued 
application of laws such as the 1996 Helms-Burton Act 
create extraterritorial effects that affect the sovereignty 
of  third  States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or 
persons  under  their  jurisdiction  and  the  freedoms  of 
trade and navigation.
My delegation applauds and admires the people of 
Cuba and their leadership for their resilience, hard work 
and dedication to the advancement of their great country 
despite the embargo. They have remained steadfast and 
have risen above the challenges to succeed in various 
fields for the benefit of themselves and friends abroad, 
including many Zambians.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reassure 
the people of Cuba of Zambia’s continued solidarity on 
this issue, and welcomes the law passed in March 2014 
by the Government of Cuba aimed at further attracting 
foreign investment and easing travel restrictions.
Mr.  Pisarevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I 
would  like  to  welcome  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Cuba.
Belarus has repeatedly underscored the unacceptable 
nature  of  the  use  of  coercive  economic  measures  and 
believes that economic sanctions are essentially a way 
of exerting political pressure on sovereign States. The 
imposition by the United States of economic sanctions 
on  Cuba  runs  counter  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  a  number  of  international  commitments, 
and  creates  artificial  barriers.  Unilateral  sanctions, 
economic pressure and coercive measures taken against 
independent States are counterproductive and can lead 
to a stoking of tensions in relations between sovereign 
States and in the international arena as a whole. Belarus 
supports the principle of equal and mutually respectful 
dialogue, which can assist in settling disagreements.
Belarus,  like  Cuba,  is  has  experienced  and  is 
continuing  to  experience  the  negative  impact  of  the 
imposition of economic sanctions by the United States 
and the European Union. They are mainly intended to 
deprive ordinary citizens in Belarus of their rights.
Despite the clear signal coming from the international 
community on the need to end the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against Cuba, the United Nations has failed to respond 
properly to the United States’ actions against Cuba and 
other sovereign States. That is prompting other Western 
countries to use the same nefarious practices as a way 
of subordinating the independent policies of States to 
their own political ambitions.
In  line  with  Human  Rights  Council  resolution 
19/32, on 5 April 2013 there was an interactive dialogue 
in  Geneva  on  unilateral  coercive  measures  and  their 
impact on human rights. Following that, a report was 
drafted  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights (A/HRC/27/20). The 
report noted that the participants in the meeting were 
unanimous in their assessment that policies consisting 
of unilateral coercive measures lead first and foremost 
to violations of human rights, such as the rights to food, 
work,  health  care  and  education.  Thus,  as  the  report 
notes, entirely innocent civilians not only fail to receive 
help in asserting their rights, but are doubly punished.
We  welcome  the  creation  of  the  mandate  of  a 
Special  Rapporteur  on  unilateral  coercive  measures. 
We trust that the Special Rapporteur will significantly 
strengthen activities aimed at drawing the attention of 
the international community, including the population 
of  those  countries  who  impose  unilateral  measures 
themselves, to the counterproductive nature and harm 
caused by such measures, which undermine the basis for 
development. The Office of the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights, the Secretary-General and other senior 
United  Nations  civil  servants  should  take  appropriate 
measures  to  end  the  use  of  individual  measures  of 
economic  sanctions.  Belarus  is  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution submitted by Cuba (A/69/L.4).
Mr.  Mwinyi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  We 
are  taking  the  floor  to  extend  our  solidarity  to  the 
Cuban Government and people, who continue to suffer 
under  a  50-year-long  unjust  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo. It is with profound regret that 
Tanzania, an ally of both the United States of America 
and Cuba, once again stands at this rostrum to speak 
16/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
about  this  unfortunate  situation,  which  continues 
unchanged despite the many resolution on the subject 
adopted by this body.
The situation is regrettable for two main reasons. 
First,  the  delay  in  resolving  the  matter  continues  to 
undermine the credibility and legitimacy of the United 
Nations,  the  main  goal  of  which  is  the  preservation 
of  world  peace  and  security,  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  and  social  justice,  and  the  advancement  of 
economic  prosperity  for  all.  Every  unfulfilled  or  un-
implemented resolution or decision adopted by this body 
is a great failure for its entire membership. Secondly, 
it  is  regrettable  that  a  friendly  nation  and  founder  of 
this  world  Organization  continues  to  ignore  repeated 
petitions made by the overwhelming majority of nations 
in this Hall calling for the immediate and unconditional 
cessation  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba.  The  embargo 
may  be  a  bilateral  matter,  but  its  prolongation  has 
extraterritorial ramifications.
We  strongly  believe  that  the  time  has  come  for 
the United States of America and Cuba to mend their 
diplomatic relations and join forces against the common 
enemies  of  humanity,  namely,  poverty,  disease, 
illiteracy and climate change.
We  have  witnessed 
the  sacrifices  of  many 
countries, including the United States of America and 
Cuba,  who  have  deployed  medical  personnel,  troops, 
equipment and resources to the Ebola battlefield in the 
Western  African  States  of  Sierra  Leone,  Liberia  and 
Guinea. The Ebola outbreak has exposed the true foes 
of humanity. From the ravages of the outbreak, we must 
build a stronger united front against those enemies and 
not against each other. Truly, we cannot afford to miss 
this historic opportunity.
Let me conclude by citing the words of Mwalimu 
Julius  Kambarage  Nyerere,  founder  of  the  Tanzanian 
nation,  who  said  at  this  very  rostrum  in  September 
1983:
“We may not like each other. We may distrust 
each  other.  But  neither  liking  nor  distrust  is 
relevant. In this twentieth century our nations have 
to work together in order to survive. The alternative 
is to die, all of us, and all our peoples. The choice 
is ours: cooperation slowly and painfully built up, 
or inevitable and pervading chaos, insecurity and 
disaster  ...  Let  us  decide  to  work  together  for  the 
good of humanity.” (A/38/PV.14, paras. 47 and 48)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to introduce draft resolution 
A/69/L.4.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Today  is  the  twenty-third  time  that  the  General 
Assembly  is  considering  this  issue,  which  is  of  such 
importance for the international community, as it has 
to do with international law, which protects all States, 
whether  big  or  small,  rich  or  poor,  and  guarantees 
their  independence  and  the  exercise  of  their  national 
sovereignty, which is the basis for sovereign equality. It 
is also directly linked to the enjoyment of human rights 
by  all  persons  and  all  peoples.  This  matter  concerns 
freedoms  of  trade  and  navigation,  which  protects  the 
interests of States, companies and individuals.
However,  we  are  gathered  here  at  a  very  odd 
international juncture characterized by serious threats 
to  international  peace  and  security:  terrible  wars, 
terrorist acts of extreme cruelty, the risk posed by the 
existence  of  huge  nuclear  arsenals,  and  unbelievable 
levels of military expenditures, which are of no use in 
solving any of the serious problems facing the world’s 
population, which is quickly approaching 8 billion. This 
is a crucial moment in terms of the impact of climate 
change,  which  leads  to,  among  other  catastrophic 
consequences, unprecedented famine, extreme poverty 
across entire regions and massive waves of migration. 
We  are  living  in  an  age  characterized  by  a  systemic 
global crisis with its constituent economic, food, energy 
and water components.
Together  with  poverty,  which  takes  a  higher  toll 
on human lives than wars, we are at increased risk of 
serious  diseases  such  as  Ebola,  which  could  become 
one  of  the  worst  pandemics  in  history,  if  not  stopped 
and eradicated in the affected nations of Western Africa 
through urgent and effective cooperation by all. As was 
recently stated by President Raul Castro Ruz:
“This noble and urgent endeavour demands the 
indispensable commitment and dedication of every 
nation  in  the  world,  to  the  extent  of  everyone’s 
possibilities.  We  are  of  the  view  that  this  grave 
problem  should  not  be  politicized,  as  that  would 
distract us from the main objective, which is to help 
confront  the  epidemic  in  Africa  and  prevent  it  in 
other regions.”
All  of  those  factors  present  an  unprecedented 
combination  of  old  and  new  problems  that  could 
14-59193
17/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
make  human  life  unsustainable.  None  of  them  can 
be resolved, if we do not change our attitude and our 
way  of  dealing  with  and  shaping  reality  and  engage 
in  genuine  cooperation  in  the  interest  of  the  survival 
of  humankind.  As  recently  written  by  Comrade  Fidel 
Castro:
“Any  sensible  person  knows  that  political 
decisions that entail some risk for highly qualified 
staff  involve  a  higher  level  of  responsibility  for 
those  who  call  on  them  to  fulfil  that  risky  task. 
That is something far more difficult than sending 
soldiers  to  fight  and  even  die  for  a  just  political 
cause,  who  do  so  because  they  believe  it  to  be 
their  duty.  Medical  staff  who  are  prepared  to  go 
anywhere  to  save  lives,  even  at  the  risk  of  losing 
their own, offer the best example of solidarity that 
human beings can show.”
It  is  a  fact  that,  in  recent  times,  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba  has  been  tightened  and 
that  its  extraterritorial  application  to  every  region  of 
the  world  has  been  reinforced,  in  particular  through 
the imposition of huge and unprecedented fines in the 
amount of $11 billion against 38 banks, including the 
French bank BNP Paribas, for having transactions with 
Cuba and other countries.
The  cumulative  economic  damage,  which  has 
been  huge  for  a  small  economy  like  ours,  amounts 
to  $1,112,534  million,  calculated  on  the  basis  of  the 
price  of  gold.  That  price  is  being  manipulated  by 
those  who  created  the  harmful  monetary  system 
currently in force, which is already feeling the effects 
of the insurmountable crisis that has struck the poorest 
countries.
The  human  damage  caused  by  the  blockade  is 
increasing. Already, 77 per cent of Cubans have been 
born under the blockade. Our families’ suffering cannot 
be measured. There are many international conventions 
that  proscribe 
the  1948 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide. The exercise of their human rights 
by  an  entire  people  is  being  impaired.  The  economic 
development of the country is seriously hampered.
the  blockade, 
including 
Although our health-care and social systems have 
managed to prevent any loss of human life, no honest 
person, whether in the United States or anywhere else in 
the world, could support the devastating consequences 
of  the  blockade.  Despite  everything,  our  national 
culture,  our  education  system  and  our  guarantee  of 
equal rights and opportunities allow us to be a nation 
that is educated and compassionate.
On both sides of the Florida Straits, the peoples of 
the United States and Cuba have always had close links. 
Despite the systematic slanderous campaigns launched 
against our country for the past half century, the people 
of the United States supported the return to his family 
of the Cuban child who was kidnapped in 1999. Cuba 
extended  every  possible  assistance  in  the  immediate 
aftermath of the terrible terrorist acts of 11 September 
2001, when thousands of flying planes were left without 
a  place  to  land,  and,  later,  helped  fill  the  gap  in  the 
supply of antibiotics at the time of the anthrax attacks 
in the United States.
In 2005, truly concerned about the damage that was 
being caused by hurricane Katrina, we offered medical 
assistance to the people of New Orleans. That led to the 
establishment of the Henry Reeve medical contingent, 
which  specializes  in  the  management  of  disaster 
situations  and  epidemics.  It  is  named  after  a  heroic 
young American who fought for Cuba’s independence 
back  in  the  nineteenth  century.  That  contingent  is 
deployed  in  Sierra  Leone,  Liberia  and  Guinea.  Its 
prestigious name was borne by the brigade that assisted 
Pakistan  in  2005  in  the  aftermath  of  the  earthquake 
there. It has continued to engage in fruitful cooperation 
with  United  States  military  medical  personnel,  which 
started in El Salvador after the earthquake of 2001 and 
in Guatemala in 2002 and 2003 to treat onchocerciasis, 
or  river  blindness.  In  2010,  after  the  earthquake  in 
Haiti,  the  United  States  and  Cuba  also  cooperated  to 
assist that long-suffering nation.
the  United  States  with 
The  Cuban  Government  has  invariably  shared 
information  on  planned  terrorist  actions  or  attacks 
against 
that  country’s 
Government. Despite the old tensions and the attempts 
by  violent  extremists  and  terrorist  groups  to  inflame 
them,  there  has  not  been  a  war,  nor  have  any  young 
Americans  died 
in  Cuba.  Despite  having  been 
slandered, Cuba has never been a threat to the national 
security  of  the  United  States.  There  is  no  hostility 
between  our  peoples.  Cuba  hospitably  welcomes  the 
few Americans who are allowed by their Government 
to visit or who brave the legal consequences that might 
result  from  doing  so  and  those  who  come  to  offer 
humanitarian assistance, such as Pastors for Peace, or 
to study medicine.
18/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
There are well-known opinion polls that show the 
increasing  and  majority  support  from  absolutely  all 
sectors  of  United  States  society  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade  and  the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations. 
It  is  particularly  noteworthy  that  that  support  is  even 
more marked in Florida, as confirmed by the electoral 
trends in the most recent presidential elections.
Political  personalities  of  the  most  diverse  stripes 
and  scholars  have  recognized  that  the  policy  has 
failed  to  meet  its  purpose  and  has  not  served  the 
national interests of that Power. It is enough to read the 
editorials  published  by  The  New  York  Times  in  recent 
weeks.  Religious  leaders  have  cited  legitimate  and 
indisputable  ethical  and  humanitarian  reasons  to  ask 
for change. American citizens are demanding the right 
to travel to the only place on the planet where they are 
prevented from going and to receive direct and personal 
information on the reality of the situation in Cuba.
Entrepreneurial  organizations  and  businesspeople 
believe that the blockade harms their economic interests. 
The majority public opinion is opposed to maintaining 
the current state of affairs and is expressing that in an 
increasingly critical way. Cuban émigrés have suffered 
under  discriminatory  measures  and  have  had  to  cope 
with numerous obstacles hindering family reunification 
and  travelling  in  both  directions,  excessive  costs 
imposed  on  them,  political  manipulation  and  even 
terrorist  violence.  The  majority  want  peace  and  well-
being for their families and their people and normal ties 
with their mother country.
in 
What  is  the  point  of  encouraging  the  illegal  use 
of  information  technologies  instead  of  authorizing 
mutually  beneficial  businesses 
the  area  of 
telecommunications?  What  is  the  point  of  preventing 
Cuba’s  connection  to  nearby  submarine  cables,  thus 
limiting and hindering our connectivity? The blockade 
is harmful to Cuba, but it is also harmful to the United 
States. The absurd and ridiculous inclusion of Cuba on 
the  list  of  States  sponsors  of  international  terrorism, 
which  has  been  used  to  justify  the  imposition  of 
additional financial sanctions, is to the discredit of the 
United States.
The 16 years that three Cuban anti-terrorist fighters 
have  been  unjustly  imprisoned  under  false  pretences 
have  not  weakened  them.  On  the  contrary,  they  have 
become  heroes,  examples  for  future  generations  of 
Cubans and a source of pride for those whose sacrifice 
paved the way towards a new Cuba.
The decision to end the blockade will be welcomed 
at the global level and will have a singular impact on 
global  peace  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts 
and differences.
After  the  limited  but  welcome  measures  of  2009 
and  2011  on  family  visits,  remittances  from  Cubans 
who settled in United States territory and travel licenses 
enabling  certain  categories  of  United  States  citizens 
to engage in exchanges of various sorts, the technical 
dialogue  has  been  expanded  to  include  other  issues, 
and  cooperation  has  been  enhanced  in  areas  such  as 
the fight against drug trafficking, transnational crime 
and trafficking in persons; the prevention of oil spills; 
search  and  rescue  operations;  air  safety;  and  other 
specific areas. The reaction of United States society and 
the international community to those modest advances 
has been one of support and encouragement.
President  Barack  Obama  has  been  entrusted  with 
every  constitutional  prerogative  and  does  not  require 
support  from  Congress  to  modify  certain  crucial 
aspects  of  the  blockade  and  introduce  a  new  and 
decisive  dynamic  in  bilateral  relations.  We  invite  the 
Government of the United States to establish mutually 
respectful  relations  based  on  reciprocity,  sovereign 
equality,  the  principles  of  international  law  and  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  can  seek  solutions 
to  our  differences  through  respectful  dialogue  and 
cooperation in areas of common interest. We can live 
and deal with each other in a civilized manner, despite 
our differences.
Cuba  will  never  renounce  its  sovereignty  or  the 
path  freely  chosen  by  its  people  to  build  a  more  just, 
efficient, prosperous and sustainable socialism  — nor 
will it give up in its quest for a different international 
order or cease in its struggle for worldwide equilibrium.
At this difficult and special juncture, I ask members 
to vote in favour of draft resolution A/69/L.4, entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”,  in  order  to  give  weight  to 
the  idea  that  the  serious  problems  currently  facing 
humankind  require  us  to  change  our  way  of  relating 
to each other, so that we can solve those problems and 
preserve peace and human life.
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker 
in  the  debate  on  this  item.  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolution A/69/L.4.
14-59193
19/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and shall 
be delivered by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Godard (United States of America): As do all 
Member States, the United States conducts its economic 
relationships  with  other  countries  in  accordance  with 
its  national  interests  and  its  principles.  Our  sanctions 
toward Cuba are part of our overall effort to help the 
Cuban  people  freely  exercise  their  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms and determine their own future, 
consistent  with  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  and  the  democratic  principles  to  which  the 
United Nations itself is committed. We therefore stand 
in opposition to the draft resolution.
The  Cuban  Government  uses  this  annual  draft 
resolution in an attempt to shift blame for the island’s 
economic problems away from its own policy failures. 
The  Cuban  Government  now  publicly  recognizes 
that  its  economic  woes  are  caused  by  the  economic 
policies  that  it  has  pursued  for  the  past  half-century. 
We note and welcome recent changes that reflect that 
acknowledgement, such as those that allow greater self-
employment and liberalization of the real-estate market. 
But the Cuban economy will not thrive until the Cuban 
Government  permits  a  free  and  fair  labour  market, 
fully  empowers  Cuban  independent  entrepreneurs, 
respects intellectual property rights, allows unfettered 
access to information via the Internet, opens its State 
monopolies to private competition and adopts the sound 
macro-economic  policies  that  have  contributed  to  the 
success of Cuba’s neighbours in Latin America.
The  United  States  remains  a  deep  and  abiding 
friend of the Cuban people. The Cuban people continue 
to receive as much as $2 billion per year in remittances 
and other private contributions from the United States. 
That support has been made possible by United States 
policy  choices.  By  the  Cuban  Government’s  own 
account,  the  United  States  is  one  of  Cuba’s  principal 
trading  partners.  In  2013,  the  United  States  exported 
approximately  $359  million  in  agricultural  products, 
medical  devices,  medicine  and  humanitarian  items  to 
Cuba.  Far  from  restricting  aid  to  the  Cuban  people, 
we  are  proud  that  the  people  of  the  United  States 
and  its  companies  are  among  the  leading  providers 
of  humanitarian  assistance  to  Cuba.  All  of  that  trade 
and  assistance  is  conducted  in  conformity  with  our 
sanctions  programme,  which  is  carefully  calibrated 
to allow and encourage the provision of support to the 
Cuban people.
The  United  States  places  the  highest  priority  on 
building  and  strengthening  connections  between  the 
Cuban  people  and  the  people  of  the  United  States. 
United States travel, remittance, information exchange, 
humanitarian and people-to-people policies, which were 
updated  in  2009  and  2011,  provide  the  Cuban  people 
with alternative sources of information, help them take 
advantage of limited opportunities for self-employment 
and private property and strengthen independent civil 
society. The hundreds of thousands of Americans who 
have sent remittances and travelled to the island, under 
categories of purposeful travel promoted by President 
Obama, remain the best ambassadors for our democratic 
ideals.
The  United  States  strongly  supports  the  Cuban 
people’s desire to determine their own future through 
the free flow of information to, from, and within Cuba. 
The right to receive and impart information and ideas 
through  any  media  is  set  forth  in  article  19  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is the Cuban 
Government’s  policies  that  continue  to  prevent  the 
enjoyment  of  that  right.  The  Cuban  Government  now 
claims  to  share  our  goal  of  helping  the  Cuban  people 
to  access  the  Internet.  Yet  the  Cuban  Government 
has  failed  to  offer  widespread  access  to  the  Internet 
through its high-speed cable with Venezuela. Instead, 
it  continues  to  impose  barriers  to  information  for  the 
Cuban  people,  while  disingenuously  blaming  United 
States policy.
Moreover,  the  Cuban  Government  continues  to 
detain  Alan  Gross,  a  United  States  citizen  who  was 
sentenced to 15 years in prison for facilitating Internet 
access for Cuba’s small Jewish community. The United 
States calls on Cuba to release Mr. Gross immediately, 
allow unrestricted access to the Internet and tear down 
the digital wall of censorship that it has erected around 
the Cuban people.
The draft resolution only serves to distract from the 
real problems facing the Cuban people, and therefore my 
delegation will oppose it. Though Cuba’s contributions 
to  the  fight  against  Ebola  are  laudable,  they  do  not 
excuse  or  diminish  the  regime’s  treatment  of  its  own 
people.  We  encourage  this  world  body  to  support  the 
desires of the Cuban people to choose their own future. 
By doing so, it would truly advance the principles upon 
which the Charter of the United Nations was founded, 
20/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
and  the  purposes  for  which  the  United  Nations  was 
created.
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  Once  again,  the  international  community 
meets in the General Assembly to discuss and approve 
the  draft  resolution  submitted  by  the  sister  Republic 
of  Cuba  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
Nicaragua,  in  explaining  its  vote  on  the  draft 
resolution,  would  like  to  begin  by  quoting  a  Cuban 
comrade, who, while recently visiting Nicaragua, said 
in reference to our country: “Our patriotic sentiments, 
our  spirituality  are  linked  to  Nicaragua  and  all  that 
hurts  these  people  we  feel  at  first  hand”.  Nicaragua 
will vote in favour of the draft resolution because we 
share  those  sentiments,  our  people  and  Government 
feel at first hand all that happens to the brother people 
and  Government  of  Cuba.  There  have  been  fifty-five 
years of blockade, economic war and aggression, which 
represents, to our knowledge, the most prolonged and 
ruthless such exercise in contemporary times.
We  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  statements  of 
support for the people and Government of Cuba recently 
expressed  by  representatives  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Community of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  Caribbean 
Community, the Union of South American Nations, the 
Southern Common Market and the African Union are 
the most irrefutable proof that the world almost entirely 
rejects and condemns that criminal blockade.
the 
We  appreciate 
information  provided  by 
our  fellow  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba, 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  that  the  United  States 
Administration  not  only  continues  to  maintain  the 
blockade,  but  has  not  taken  any  steps  toward  ending 
that  illegal  and  unjust  policy.  The  United  States 
continues  to  reinforce  its  inhumane  embargo  and  its 
use  of  extraterritorial  measures,  especially  in  the 
banking  and  financial  sectors,  and  to  prosecute  those 
who engage in international financial transactions with 
Cuba, in violation of the Charter of the United Nations 
and international law.
It is against that backdrop that we would like, once 
again,  to  denounce  before  the  Assembly  the  fact  that 
the Consulate of the Republic of Cuba in Washington, 
D.C., has been deprived of financial services for the past 
year. As always, we are saddened and infuriated when 
we see how those measures impact the development and 
lives  of  the  Cuban  people,  as  detailed  by  the  Foreign 
Minister.  The  effects  on  imports  and  exports  and  the 
lack of access to international credit impacts the Cuban 
people’s  health  and  education  system,  their  right  to 
food and their lack of access to international markets. 
In  short,  the  measures  inflict  damage  in  all  spheres 
of the Cuban people’s lives. The blockade is the main 
obstacle to the sustainable development and economic 
and social programmes of that sister-nation.
Today, we would like to indicate that, despite this 
war  of  aggression  and  embargo,  that  heroic  people 
will  never  surrender,  and  we  are  convinced  that  we 
can continue to count on them, on their solidarity and 
unconditional support, for any emergency or needs that 
any  of  our  peoples  have.  Today,  faced  with  the  Ebola 
epidemic, Cuba is as always at the forefront of helping 
humanity, in defence of developing countries and also, 
why not say it, in defence of developed countries.
Nicaragua once again condemns the inhumane and 
criminal economic, commercial and financial blockade 
against  Cuba.  We  demand  its  immediate  cessation. 
We  demand  the  return  of  the  occupied  territory  of 
Guantanamo, the immediate and unconditional release 
of the five Cuban anti-terrorist heroes, the cessation of 
the  recent  immoral,  illegal  and  covert  activity  called 
ZunZuneo and the immediate removal of Cuba from the 
list of countries that sponsor terrorism, which is nothing 
more than the United States Government’s justification 
and pretext for intensifying its aggressive practices and 
policies against Cuba.
Unfortunately,  and  despite  what  we  heard  this 
morning in this Hall, the same United States delegate 
once again put forward the same incongruous arguments 
and fallacies that the United States puts forward every 
year to justify its criminal blockade policy. Once again, 
the  United  States  is  trying  to  confuse  the  General 
Assembly  with  its  arguments  that  convince  no  one, 
a  reflection  of  its  stubborn  and  outdated  policies, 
selfishness, its imperial arrogance and exceptionalism.
Nicaragua  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of 
the  draft  resolution  (A/69/L.4)  and  urges  the  rest  of 
the  international  community  to  once  again  vote  in 
favour of Cuba, reject the United States policies, their 
pretensions and justifications, and to continue walking 
alongside  Cuba,  in  solidarity,  united  in  cooperation, 
hand in hand, to eradicate the inequities that afflict our 
peoples, as we seek to eradicate poverty and improve 
health, education, happiness and well-being for all.
14-59193
21/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
In conclusion, I wish to quote our President Ortega 
Saavedra, who, in referring to the embargo, has said:
“It is time to end this blockade. The situation 
has  changed,  including  within  the  United  States, 
the majority of people are against the blockade. The 
conditions have been created for President Barack 
Obama to decide to take that step, even if it goes 
against  the  system.  Every  day,  it  is  increasingly 
clear that Cuba is not isolated from the world, that 
it  is  the  American  policy  that  remains  alone  and 
isolated. That is the reality.”
Hopefully, the United States will decide to rectify 
its  policies  and  end  its  own  isolation.  We  invite  the 
delegation  of  the  United  States  and  the  United  States 
Government  to  join  the  international  community  in 
putting  an  end  to  this  ancient  history,  and  to  build 
together a future of friendship, mutual cooperation and 
respect.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/69/L.4, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  A 
recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cabo  Verde, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, 
South Sudan, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
the 
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Abstaining:
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Palau
Draft resolution A/69/L.4 was adopted by 188 votes 
to 2, with 3 abstentions (resolution 69/5).
The President: Before giving the floor to speakers 
in explanation of vote on the resolution just adopted, I 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr. Lambertini (Italy): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its member 
States.  The  candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Iceland,  Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of Moldova, align 
themselves with this statement.
22/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
United  States 
trade  policy 
towards  Cuba 
is 
fundamentally  a  bilateral  issue.  However,  the  effects 
and  side  effects  of  extraterritorial  legislation  and 
unilateral  administrative  and  judicial  measures  also 
influence  business  decisions  in  the  EU  and  have  a 
negative  effect  on  EU  interests.  American  legislation 
such  as  the  Cuban  Democracy  Act  of  1992  and  the 
Helms-Burton Act of 1996 has extended the effects of 
the United States embargo to third-party countries. In 
the  framework  of  its  common  commercial  policy,  the 
European Union has firmly and continuously opposed 
such extraterritorial measures. While we acknowledge 
the  decision  of  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
to lift restrictions on remittances and family travel to 
Cuba, we cannot allow unilaterally imposed measures 
to interfere with our economic and commercial relations 
with Cuba.
In order to address the problem, in November 1996 
the EU Council of Ministers adopted a regulation and 
a joint action to protect the interests of natural or legal 
persons  residing  in  Europe  from  the  consequences  of 
those Acts. At the summit between the European Union 
and the United States held in London in May 1998, a 
package  was  agreed  on  that  also  sought  to  alleviate 
the  problems  created  by  extraterritorial  legislation.  It 
covered waivers to Titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton 
Act, a commitment by the United States Government to 
resisting future extraterritorial legislation of that kind, 
and  an  understanding  regarding  the  disciplines  for 
strengthening investment protection. It is vital that the 
United States implement that agreement.
The European Union’s policy towards Cuba was set 
out  in  a  common  position  in  1996.  In  a  reaffirmation 
of its validity, in June 2008 the European Union lifted 
the restrictive measures that had been imposed on Cuba 
in  2003.  A  dialogue  with  the  authorities  in  Havana 
was  resumed  without  preconditions  and  on  a  basis  of 
reciprocity  and  non-discrimination.  Five  ministerial 
political  dialogue  sessions  have  been  held  with  the 
Cuban  Government  to  address  issues  of  common 
interest,  including  human  rights  —  a  question  at  the 
core of our relations with all third countries, including 
Cuba.  We  reaffirm  our  determination  to  pursue  a 
results-oriented,  comprehensive  dialogue  with  the 
Cuban  authorities  and  with  representatives  of  civil 
society  and  the  peaceful  pro-democracy  opposition, 
in accordance with EU policies, as well as the right of 
Cuban  citizens  to  make  independent  decisions  about 
their future.
We  reiterate  our  call  on  the  Cuban  Government 
to  grant  its  citizens  full,  internationally  recognized 
civil,  political  and  economic  rights  and  freedoms, 
including  freedom  of  assembly  and  expression  and 
free access to information. We call on it to ratify the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and Cultural Rights and, in the wake of the visit of the 
United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to food, 
to extend invitations to other Rapporteurs to visit Cuba. 
In that context, we welcome the Cuban Government’s 
adoption  of  a  migration  law  in  2013  as  an  important 
step  towards  granting  full  freedom  of  movement  to 
Cuban citizens.
Cuba’s existing restrictions on rights and freedoms 
undermine and offset its achievements in health care and 
education. Similarly, Cuban domestic economic policy 
seriously  hampers  its  own  economic  development.  In 
that context, we note the Cuban Parliament’s adoption 
in  August  2011  of  a  package  of  economic  and  social 
reforms,  and  we  expect  them  to  be  extended  and 
implemented so as to address the Cuban people’s key 
concerns.  The  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to 
Cuba’s economic problems, producing negative effects 
on Cubans’ living standards, as well as consequences in 
humanitarian areas. Lifting the embargo could help open 
up the Cuban economy to the people’s benefit. We once 
again unite in expressing our rejection of all unilateral 
measures  directed  against  Cuba  that  negatively  affect 
the  interests  of  third  parties  and  thereby  violate 
commonly accepted rules of international trade.
We urge the Cuban authorities to bring about real 
improvements  in  all  the  aforementioned  areas.  While 
the  EU  continues  to  have  concerns  and  criticisms 
about governance and human rights in Cuba, in April 
it  nevertheless  launched  a  negotiation  process  with 
Cuba. We are encouraged by the fact that no subjects 
will  be  off-limits  in  that  process,  including  human 
rights,  governance  and  civil  society,  and  respect  for 
the  principle  of  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity. 
Against  that  backdrop,  the  member  States  of  the 
European Union unanimously voted in favour of today’s 
resolution (rsolution 69/5).
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  would  first  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, and to express to him once again my country’s 
full support for the Government and friendly people of 
14-59193
23/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
Cuba in the face of the unjust embargo that consecutive 
United  States  administrations  have  unrelentingly 
imposed on Cuba for many years.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Iran,  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement, and Bolivia, on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China.
The embargo imposed on Cuba for many decades 
has created a deplorable precedent in dealings between 
States in a manner that contravenes international law. It 
has arbitrarily subjected Cuba and its people to a great 
deal of economic, political and social hardship. It has 
deepened  their  suffering  and  put  the  United  States  in 
direct  confrontation  with  the  international  consensus 
declares  that  the  embargo  should  be  rejected.  As  the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  has  said,  the  embargo 
has  resulted  in  material  losses  to  Cuba  of  more  than 
$1 trillion.
For the twenty-third consecutive time, the General 
Assembly  has  met  to  reaffirm,  by  an  overwhelming 
majority,  the  illegitimacy  and  inhumanity  of  the 
embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba and its 
people. It is contrary to the provisions of the Charter of 
the United Nations and the principles of international 
law, notably the principles of equal sovereignty among 
States  and  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs. 
It  also  runs  contrary  to  international  instruments 
pertaining to human rights, international humanitarian 
law and international trade.
Regrettably,  despite  all 
the  many  resolutions 
adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  other  decisions  proclaimed  by  other 
political, regional and international organizations, the 
embargo  on  Cuba  imposed  in  1959  is  still  in  force. 
It  is  as  though  nothing  had  happened  and  as  if  our 
discussions of international law and the United Nations 
Charter  were  the  mere  idle  chatter  of  the  weak.  The 
fact that 188 States voted in favour of today’s resolution 
(resolution  69/5)  testifies  once  again  to  the  fact  that 
almost  all  our  members  consider  that  the  embargo  is 
illegitimate and should be lifted.
The fact that Israel, together with the United States, 
is  one  of  only  two  States  to  have  voted  against  the 
resolution is proof that it continues to turn a blind eye to 
international law and to support illegitimate practices 
against other States Members of the United Nations, as 
it has been doing with respect to the Palestinian people 
and to the Syrians in the occupied Syrian Golan. The 
Israeli vote is self-explanatory and adds insult to injury 
regarding the United States policy.
My country confirms once again that the coercive 
unilateral measures imposed by the United States, the 
European  Union  and  their  allies  represent  a  blatant 
violation and breach of the principles of international 
law. They are also an instrument for imposing Western 
hegemony  on  other  countries  and  peoples,  designed 
to  interfere  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States 
in  a  manner  that  is  contrary  to  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. The embargo is also a 
tool  for  advancing  the  collective  punishment  policies 
embraced by the United States and the States members 
of the European Union with a view to weakening other 
States or putting pressure on them in order to change 
the  national  choices  and  policies  available  to  them 
as  independent  nations.  We  recall,  in  that  regard,  the 
disastrous impact of the economic embargoes on Iraq 
and Libya, especially on the civilians of those countries.
Accordingly,  Syria  would  like  once  again  to 
condemn  and  reject  the  oppressive  and  coercive 
measures  imposed  by  the  European  Union  and  the 
United  States  against  the  Syrian  people.  We  would 
like to highlight the negative impact of those unilateral 
illegitimate measures, as they stand in the way of the 
access of ordinary Syrian people to basic commodities, 
such  as  food,  medicine,  medical  equipment,  fuel, 
agricultural products and other items, as well as civil 
aviation  and  communications  tools.  Those  measures 
represent  a  blatant  breach  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
Syrian people, in addition to the grave damage to the 
Syrian  economic.  We  further  note  that,  when  States 
that impose coercive measures on the Syrian people go 
on  to  deplore  the  situation  of  the  Syrian  people,  it  is 
pure hypocrisy on their part.
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  the 
imposition of coercive and unilateral measures violates 
relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
including 
resolution  68/200,  entitled  “Unilateral  economic 
measures  as  a  means  of  political  and  economic 
coercion against developing countries”, and resolution 
68/162, entitled “Human rights and unilateral coercive 
measures”, in which the Assembly condemned rejected 
unilateral  economic  measures,  considering  them  to 
be  an  obstacle  to  commercial  and  trade  relationships 
among countries and violations of international human 
rights  instruments.  Under  that  mandate,  the  General 
Assembly  is  called  upon  to  take  the  necessary  steps 
to  put  an  end  to  the  unjust  embargo  policy  and  other 
24/26 
14-59193
28/10/2014 
A/69/PV.30
unilateral  aggressive  or  coercive  measures  that  some 
States embrace in contravention of the international law 
framework. Such measures can be seen as constituting 
aggression  and  as  being  in  violation  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  hopes 
that all types of embargoes and other unilateral coercive 
measures  imposed  on  Cuba  and  on  other  countries, 
including my country, Syria, will be lifted.
My delegation calls once again for the lifting of the 
unjust, inhuman and unethical Israeli embargo imposed 
on  the  inhabitants  of  the  occupied  Arab  territories, 
including the Syrian Golan. We hope that the voice of the 
international community, as expressed by the General 
Assembly and other international organizations, will be 
respected  by  the  United  States,  and  we  hope  that  the 
United States legislative authorities will harken to that 
voice and the resolution just adopted.
Based on the foregoing, my country, Syria, voted in 
favour of resolution 69/5.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): I would like to express our appreciation to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
under  agenda 
item  40  (A/69/98).  My  delegation 
wishes to align itself with the statements made by the 
representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement, and of the Plurinational 
State of Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
We  are  here  once  again  to  express  our  sympathy 
for  the  innocent  and  peace-loving  people  of  Cuba, 
who  have  continued  to  endure  the  misery  resulting 
from the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed against them. Under the embargo, the Cuban 
Government  is  unable  to  utilize  its  full  capacity  to 
eliminate  poverty,  promote  economic  and  social 
development  and  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. In addition, the embargo violates international 
law  and  is  against  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  also  constitutes  a 
transgression against the right of a sovereign State to 
peace, development and security.
The General Assembly has called upon all States to 
refrain from promulgating and applying law, regulations 
and  measures  that  affect  the  sovereignty  of  other 
Member  States  and  from  repealing  and  invalidating 
laws, if so doing has a similar impact. States have the 
right to participate freely in international, financial and 
commercial systems, based on the notion of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law,  and  no 
nation  has  the  right  to  interfere  in  the  sovereignty, 
internal  affairs  and  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or 
States,  despite  their  different  sociopolitical  systems. 
Since Cuba is an independent State, it has the right to 
choose the political system and the path of development 
that best suit its specific conditions.
Last  year,  188  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  68/200,  and 
again  this  year,  188  Member  States  have  just  voted 
in  favour  of  resolution  69/5,  which  is  irrefutable 
proof  that  the  battle  for  the  lifting  of  the  blockade  is 
recognized  and  supported  by  the  vast  majority  of  the 
international community. Therefore, the blockade must 
be immediately and unconditionally lifted.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  joins  the 
majority of the States Members of the United Nations 
in  supporting  the  Cuban  people  in  this  fight.  As 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  do 
everything  we  can  to  help  Cuba  to  fully  reclaim  its 
legitimate  right  to  become  integrated  into  the  global 
economy. In that spirit, my delegation voted in favour 
of resolution 69/5.
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
welcome the fact that the General Assembly has adopted, 
by an overwhelming majority, a new resolution on the 
blockade against Cuba (resolution 69/5). We would like 
to congratulate the Cuban Government and the Cuban 
mission to the United Nations on the excellent work that 
they have done.
Argentina voted in favour of resolution 69/5 so as 
to  demonstrate  once  again  our  firm  opposition  to  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba, the use of unilateral coercive measures, 
the  extraterritorial  application  of  certain  national 
trade  laws  and  the  adoption  of  discriminatory  trade 
practices. Argentina rejects the embargo policy against 
Cuba  that  has  been  carried  out  by  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  for  practically  half  a 
century.  In  addition  to  being  morally  unjustifiable,  it 
violates the Charter of the United Nations, the norms of 
international law and the spirit of multilateralism.
Argentina  reiterates  its  absolute  commitment  to 
the  principles  of  sovereign  equality  among  States, 
non-interference in internal matters and the ability to 
be free to trade and navigate. The embargo is immoral, 
unjust  and  illegal.  It  is  very  clear  to  the  international 
community that the embargo is the main obstacle to the 
economic and social development of the Cuban people. 
14-59193
25/26
A/69/PV.30 
28/10/2014
The figure given by the Foreign Minister of Cuba a few 
moments ago shows the full extent of the consequences 
of those measures on all aspects of life for Cubans. The 
embargo,  which  has  been  condemned  in  successive 
General Assembly resolutions with virtually unanimous 
support,  has  had  serious  humanitarian  and  economic 
effects that cause irreparable harm to the well-being of 
the Cuban people.
As  we  have  stated  earlier  today,  the  embargo 
impacts  on  basic  matters,  such  as  health,  education, 
diet,  tourism,  transportation,  industry  and  culture, 
just  to  mention  a  few  areas.  It  also  produces  harm  to 
all  areas  of  the  country’s  economy.  It  functions  as  a 
barrier impeding the country’s access to international 
financing  on  favourable  conditions  that  would  enable 
it to obtain cutting-edge technology and attract foreign 
investment and direct investment, all of which prevents 
Cuba  from  becoming  fully  part  of  the  international 
economic system. As an example, the damage to Cuba’s 
foreign  trade  over  the  past  year  was  an  estimated 
$3.9  billion,  and  in  a  conservative  estimate,  has  led, 
during  the  years  of  the  United  States’  economic  and 
financial embargo, to damage to the Cuban people of 
more than $116.88 billion.
However,  despite  the  limitations  imposed  by  the 
blockade,  Cuba  has  been  able  to  be  an  actor  and  a 
leader in various areas of cooperation and international 
solidarity.  We  cannot  fail  to  mention  the  Cuban 
contributions in the area of health. The recent decision 
of the Cuban Government to train and send hundreds of 
physicians to West Africa, at the risk of their own lives, 
to help tackle Ebola is an example of the solidarity of 
the people that has not been vanquished.
Since  this  will  be  the  Secretary-General’s  last 
report on the subject, Argentina should like to express 
our  support  for  it.  We  would  like  to  highlight  one  of 
the pillars of the bilateral links between Argentina and 
Cuba. We have an Argentine law relevant to Cuba that 
establishes  our  approach  to  the  extraterritorial  nature 
of  foreign  laws  in  our  country.  Article  1  of  that  law 
states that foreign laws will be inapplicable and have no 
legal effect if they attempt to generate extraterritorial 
legal  effects  by  imposing  an  economic  embargo  on  a 
particular country with the aim of producing a change 
of Government or affecting that country’s right to self-
determination.
Argentina  stands  in  solidarity  with  Cuba,  and 
we  express  our  full  support  for  the  international 
community’s  struggle  for  Cuba.  We  adhere  to  the 
principle of the legal equality of all States with regard 
to their sovereignty. We affirm that strict respect must 
be given to all differences, whether economic, political 
or  of  another  kind.  The  blockade  against  Cuba  must 
stop.  The  system  of  unilateral  sanctions  is  the  most 
persistent  and  severe  measure  of  that  kind  applied 
against any country. Every year since 1992, the General 
Assembly has expressed its opinion on that matter and 
has,  by  an  overwhelming  majority,  called  for  respect 
for international law and for the fulfilment of the aims 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the rights of the Cuban people to choose for themselves 
their  own  destiny.  We  hope  that  we  will  not  have  to 
adopt additional resolutions of this kind in the future. 
We  hope  that  the  unjust  embargo  imposed  on  the 
Cuban  people  will,  once  and  for  all,  be  lifted  by  the 
Government of the United States.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the explanation of vote after the vote for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
26/26 
14-59193
