United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
35th plenary meeting
Friday, 31 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mendonça  e 
Moura (Portugal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 73 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/69/321)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/69/324 
and A/69/372)
Ms. Cooper (Australia): From Australia’s vantage 
point  as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  we  are 
acutely  aware  that  Rome  Statute  crimes  continue  to 
be committed in many locations on an alarming scale. 
The preamble to the Rome Statute describes the crimes 
that  fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) as “unimaginable atrocities that 
deeply shock the conscience of humanity”. The fact that 
civilians — children, women and men — are victims of 
the most hideous, depraved and bloody deliberate acts 
of  violence  imaginable  shocks  Australia.  It  shocks  us 
and it galvanizes our determination to help do what we 
can to prevent such crimes occurring.
responsible for international crimes. The ICC, however, 
as a court of last resort, has a vital role to play when 
States are unable or unwilling to take such action. That 
is why the ICC deserves the unfailing support of every 
member of the international community.
The  ICC  has  been  asked  by  States  parties  to 
carry  out  a  complex  and  ambitious  mandate  in  very 
challenging circumstances. We commend the Court for 
the efforts that it has made to fulfil that mandate. Of 
particular  note  this  year  was  the  delivery  of  the  trial 
judgement  in  the  Katanga  case  and  the  sentencing  of 
the accused to 12 years’ imprisonment for one count of 
crimes against humanity and four counts of war crimes.
The Court’s activities expanded this year as a result 
of requests for its services from situation countries. The 
Court opened a second investigation into the situation 
in  the  Central  African  Republic,  following  a  referral 
from the country’s transitional Government. Similarly, 
the Prosecutor has opened a preliminary investigation 
into  the  situation  in  Ukraine,  following  the  lodging, 
pursuant to article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute, 
of Ukraine’s declaration in accepting the jurisdiction of 
the Court over alleged crimes committed on its territory 
between 21 November 2013 and 22 February 2014.
It is our unshakeable conviction that the investigation 
and  prosecution  of  serious  international  crimes  is 
critical  to  the  prevention  of  the  recurrence  of  such 
crimes  and  to  the  re-establishment  of  inclusive  and 
lasting peace. We note, in that context, that the Rome 
Statute’s  preamble  recalls  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every 
State  to  exercise  its  criminal  jurisdiction  over  those 
The  ICC  is  only  as  strong  as  the  commitment  of 
States  on  whose  cooperation  and  support  the  Court 
relies.  In  that  context,  we  underline  our  expectation 
that  States  will  fulfil  their  obligations  to  cooperate 
with the Court, whether those obligations derive from 
being a party to the Rome Statute or from resolutions 
of the Security Council. Above and beyond such legal 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-59803 (E)
*1459803*
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
obligations,  Australia  calls  on  all  States  to  support 
the Court in its efforts, which reflect nothing less and 
nothing more than a desire to investigate and prosecute 
those  accused  of  serious  international  crimes  in 
accordance with international standards.
The  United  Nations,  of  course,  has  a  critical  role 
to play in that regard. The intersections and synergies 
between  the  separate  and  independent  mandates  of 
the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  are  obvious.  Both 
institutions are working to achieve common goals. By 
working more effectively together, the two institutions 
can  ensure  that  their  efforts  have  a  multiplier  effect. 
Australia  therefore  warmly  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s  guidance  to  the  Secretariat  on  contacts 
with  persons  subject  to  arrest  warrants  and  calls  on 
the  United  Nations  to  implement  that  policy  strictly. 
We  also  welcome  the  recent  meeting  between  the 
ICC  Prosecutor  and  the  new  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  and  we  advise  that 
they  discuss  ways  to  further  strengthen  collaboration 
between their respective offices.
During the remainder of our term on the Security 
Council, Australia will continue to advocate for at least 
the  same  level  of  cooperation  to  be  extended  by  the 
Council to the Court. Such cooperation is critical to the 
effectiveness of the ICC and, in Australia’s view, it is 
incumbent upon the Council to ensure that its rhetoric 
on accountability is backed by action.
The  ICC  is  a  beacon  of  hope  for  those  whose 
lives  have  been  devastated  by  the  worst  excesses  of 
humankind. However, its promise can be fulfilled only 
if it enjoys the support of the international community. 
For that reason, Australia calls on States that have not 
yet done so to ratify the Rome Statute as amended by 
the  Kampala  amendments.  States  should  support  a 
strong General Assembly resolution on the ICC, and we 
call on all States to support the ICC in its fight against 
impunity.
Ms.  Ridings  (New  Zealand):  We  thank  President 
Song for presenting the International Criminal Court’s 
annual report for 2014 (A/69/321) and, as this will be his 
last presentation as the President of the Court, we wish 
to acknowledge his years of service to the International 
Criminal Court (ICC). As a strong supporter of the ICC, 
New Zealand welcomes the opportunity for continued 
dialogue on ways and means to strengthen the Court’s 
contribution  to  international  criminal  justice,  and 
particularly its relationship with the United Nations.
The  year  2015  marks  a  new  chapter  for  the  ICC 
and, with it, renewed opportunities both to reflect on 
lessons learned and to explore pathways for the future. 
We  welcome  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  Minister  of  Justice  of 
Senegal,  as  President-elect  of  our  Assembly  of  States 
Parties. We wish him every success as he works towards 
his goals of building a stronger relationship between the 
Court and the regions and between the Court and States 
parties,  strengthening  complementarity  and  working 
towards the universality of the Rome Statute.
The  year  2015  will  also  see  the  swearing  in  of 
six  new  ICC  judges  and  the  departure  of  a  cadre  of 
ICC  judges  who  have  served  since  the  opening  of 
the  Court.  We  trust  that  those  called  to  serve  in  that 
capacity will draw upon their experience to enrich the 
Court’s jurisprudence and build upon the work of their 
predecessors, so as to ensure that the Court is a robust 
and effective judicial institution.
In reflecting on this past year and looking forward, 
we also note the increasing workload of all organs of 
the  Court.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  recent  efforts 
to  analyse  and  improve  existing  procedures  and 
approaches,  including  on  the  part  of  the  Registrar 
and  the  Prosecutor.  We  particularly  recognize  the 
Prosecutor’s  strategic  plan,  notably 
its  adjusted 
approach to investigations and strong focus on ensuring 
that cases are as trial-ready as possible.
including 
justice  mechanisms, 
New  Zealand  is  committed  to  the  success  of 
international 
the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  In  March  2014,  we 
were pleased to host a workshop for Pacific and Asian 
States in Auckland, New Zealand, in partnership with 
Liechtenstein and the Global Institute for the Prevention 
of  Aggression.  The 
forum  enabled  Government 
representatives  to  engage  with  experts  in  considering 
the  Court’s  work  to  date,  the  relevance  of  the  Rome 
Statute to the region, and the content and function of the 
Kampala amendments, and to engage with providers of 
technical assistance and training.
The year 2014 marks the tenth anniversary of the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the ICC. We welcome the Secretary-General’s report 
outlining the various areas of cooperation between the 
organizations, including in the field (A/69/324), and we 
note the important role of the Office of Legal Affairs as 
the focal point across the United Nations system for all 
aspects of the Agreement. We encourage greater efforts 
to  embed  and  publicize  that  role  within  the  United 
Nations system.
2/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
the  Court  and 
The  relationship  between 
the 
Security  Council  remains  as  important  as  ever.  As 
we  have  expressed  previously  in  the  Assembly  and 
elsewhere,  we  welcome  dialogue  on  when  and  under 
what circumstances the Council should refer a situation 
to  the  ICC.  Importantly,  when  the  Council  refers  a 
situation to the Court, we are of the view that it should 
do  so  with  a  clear  commitment  to  following  up  and 
should ensure that the Court receives the cooperation it 
needs to discharge its statutory mandate.
The  ICC’s  experience  has  not  been,  and  will  not 
be, without its challenges. As we embark upon this new 
chapter, it will be a time not only for reflection, but also 
for constructive ideas, dialogue and progress. For our 
part, New Zealand remains committed to working with 
others to strengthen the Court’s efforts as a permanent 
institution in the international legal landscape.
Mr.  Hetesy  (Hungary):  Hungary  welcomes  the 
report of the International Criminal Court (A/69/321), 
which,  together  with  today’s  debate,  provides  for 
regular  interaction  between  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations membership. Just a couple of days ago in the 
Security Council, 58 Member States participated in an 
excellent open debate dealing with the working methods 
of the Council, focusing, inter alia, on the interaction 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and 
the  Council,  especially  in  the  case  of  referrals.  We 
would like to commend Argentina for organizing that 
debate. In addition, outside of New York, we witnessed 
the first visit of the Council to the seat of the ICC. That 
public  acknowledgement  of  mutual  interest  cannot  be 
overestimated.
There is a crucial link between peace and security 
on  the  one  hand,  and  criminal  accountability  on  the 
other. The most important objective of the Rome Statute 
has always been to ensure countries’ resilience against 
atrocity  crimes.  Those  crimes  not  only  kill  people, 
but  threaten  the  very  fabric  of  society  and  statehood. 
Prevention  is  also  best  served  by  the  perspective 
of  unavoidable  punishment  and  by  ensuring  that 
perpetrators are bought to justice.
Based on those premises, we must again underscore 
the need for close partnership and cooperation among 
the ICC, the Security Council and the broader United 
Nations membership, based on values, including peace, 
security  and  justice  and,  ultimately,  the  promotion  of 
universal respect for human rights. The ICC is now part 
of  the  permanent  international  architecture  ensuring 
those values.
We  commend  the  latest  reform  developments 
taking  place  within  the  various  ICC  organs.  We  note 
the efforts to strengthen the Office of the Prosecutor. 
The  Registry’s  ReVision  project  is  also  taking  shape. 
Last but not least, there are signs of improvement in the 
Court’s proceedings. Of course, there is still room for 
further improvement.
We  must  remind  ourselves  that  the  Rome  Statute 
does not deal only with the establishment of the ICC. 
The Rome Statute reflects the joint will of States parties 
to ensure, through national legislation and action, that 
atrocity  crimes  do  not  happen,  and,  if  they  do,  that 
perpetrators are prosecuted expeditiously at the national 
level. In that way the Rome Statute will strengthen the 
sovereignty of States parties, while the ICC remains the 
last resort when there is no other recourse to justice.
The  principle  of  complementarity  also  requires 
further 
interaction  among  States.  States  parties 
must  provide  assistance  to  others  in  need  of  national 
capacity-building, so that all States can fight impunity 
effectively.  The  various  United  Nations  organs  also 
have a role to play in that endeavour, through assisting 
in national capacity-building. We welcome the fact that 
the annual report also deals with such issues in detail.
Finally, when the ICC must act, it must be able to 
rely on the support and cooperation of its States parties. 
We encourage further efforts aimed at strengthening the 
relationship  of  the  Court  with  regional  organizations, 
such  as  the  African  Union,  and  with  civil-society 
organizations.  In  the  case  of  referrals,  the  Security 
Council  should,  in  our  humble  view,  also  do  more  to 
ensure that Member States cooperate with the Court.
Looking  forward  to  the  next  annual  report,  we 
cannot  forget  the  fact  that  the  Court  in  general,  and 
its actions in particular, are not immune from political 
comments and disagreements. Having said that, States 
parties  bear  the  ultimate  responsibility  to  respect 
and  protect  the  judicial  independence  of  the  Court. 
However, States parties also bear the responsibility to 
sort out differences and find solutions to reinforce the 
standing and authority of the Court.
In that vein, Hungary welcomes the consensus action 
on the part of the African States parties in presenting 
Mr. Sidiki Kaba of Senegal as the next President of the 
Assembly of States Parties. We fully support the new 
President’s  complex  vision  focusing  on  improvements 
in the contentious issues, on strengthening cooperation 
14-59803
3/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
with the Court, on the principle of complementarity and 
on promoting the Statute’s universality.
As a sign of our continued engagement, Hungary is 
set to remain a member of the Bureau for the next three 
years. Hungary has also decided to nominate Mr. Péter 
Kovács  in  the  election  of  judges  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court  for  the  period  from  2015  to  2024.  If 
elected,  the  first-ever  Hungarian  judge  will  offer  his 
experience  as  a  former  constitutional  court  justice, 
trained in independent legal decision-making based on 
the utmost respect for the law. He is a candidate who 
is  accustomed  to  functioning  at  the  highest  judicial 
level, where decisions are made concerning major legal 
issues — issues that are often hotly contested — with 
the  full  understanding  that  such  decisions  may  also 
have far-reaching political ramifications.
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania):  My  country  would 
like, first, to use this occasion to pay tribute to President 
Song’s  remarkable  work  during  his  presidency  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC). We are all indebted 
to him for his resilience, wisdom and professionalism, 
which  have  substantially  strengthened  the  Court.  In 
the challenging times that the international community 
is facing, we need strong actors to uphold the rule of 
law at the international level. We express our thanks to 
President Song.
I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  Prosecutor  of 
the  Court,  Ms.  Fatou  Bensouda,  for  her  outstanding 
endeavours in increasingly complicated circumstances. 
I personally assure her of Romania’s continued support 
for her complex activity.
We thank the Court for the tenth annual report on 
its  activities  (A/69/321),  which  reveals  its  increasing 
workload. We note that the report acknowledges that the 
path to the universality of the Rome Statute of the ICC 
involves  a  lengthy  and  difficult  process  with  various 
obstacles  to  overcome  that  will  require  constant, 
concerted and coordinated efforts. Since its entry into 
force on 1 July 2002, the number of States parties has 
been  on  the  increase.  We  continue  to  encourage  all 
States to become parties to the Rome Statute, as it is 
our belief that strengthening the ICC by achieving its 
universality is the most powerful preventive approach.
ICC 
remains  the  necessity  of  ensuring  full  and  prompt 
cooperation with the Court and, in particular, the need 
to  react  to  instances  of  non-cooperation  by  States. 
Non-cooperation  with  the  ICC  with  respect  to  the 
fundamental  challenge 
The 
facing 
the 
execution  of  arrest  warrants  represents  a  violation  of 
international  obligations  and  undermines  the  Court’s 
capacity  to  deliver  justice.  In  order  to  carry  out  its 
mandate in an independent and impartial manner, the 
ICC relies on our support. 
The  report  of  the  Court  vividly  illustrates  the 
essential  part  played  by  States  in  many  respects  in 
supporting the Court as it strives to fulfil its mandate. 
The adoption of adequate national legislation remains 
critical  for  an  effective  and  genuine  fight  against 
impunity.  States  bear  the  main  responsibility  to 
investigate, prosecute and bring to justice perpetrators 
of the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community.
In  Romania’s  view,  the  relationship  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  ICC  is  paramount  for  both 
actors.  We  express  our  support  for  establishing  a 
mechanism  that  would  provide  effective  follow-up  by 
addressing  issues  arising  from  referrals  made  by  the 
Security  Council  to  the  ICC,  in  accordance  with  the 
Rome Statute, as we underlined in the recent excellent 
debate in the Council (see S/PV.7285). 
We  believe  that  there  is  a  need  for  a  constant 
and  meaningful  exchange  of  views  among  Council 
members  to  address  the  situations  referred  to  the 
Court  and  the  consequences  of  non-compliance  with 
cooperation  obligations  under  the  referrals.  Based  on 
the periodic reporting of the Office of the Prosecutor, 
adequate follow-up measures could be examined. Such 
a mechanism would be a step in the right direction as 
we work to develop a mature and balanced relationship, 
thereby  enabling  both  institutions  to  exercise  their 
mandates in an efficient and complementary manner.
Romania  remains  an  active  supporter  of  the 
International Criminal Court and continues to promote 
its activity, which is crucial in matters of international 
peace  and  justice.  One  of  its  most  recent  initiatives 
carried  out  to  that  end  was  the  event  celebrating 
International Justice Day, held on 21 July in Bucharest, 
organized  by  the  Romanian  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs,  the  National  Commission  on  International 
Humanitarian  Law  and  the  Romanian  Red  Cross.  We 
are  very  grateful  to  Prosecutor  Bensouda  for  the  fact 
that she found the time to deliver a keynote statement 
on the achievements and challenges of the Court.
As early as 1926, the Romanian diplomat and legal 
expert  Vespasian  Pella  warned  that  a  new  system  of 
international criminal justice could not be established 
4/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
in one stroke of a magic wand. Such a system should 
take  shape  progressively,  and  while  we  have  come  a 
long way in that respect, much more remains to be done. 
I would like to conclude, therefore, by underlining once 
more the need for strong, wider and continuous public 
and diplomatic support by States and the international 
community for the International Criminal Court so as 
to enable it to fulfil its mandate.
the 
importance  of 
Mr.  Saeed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  Sudan 
reiterates 
the  noble  purposes 
and  objectives  for  which  the  United  Nations  was 
established,  namely,  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security and work for sustainable development and 
the promotion and protection of human rights through 
a  methodology  based  on  international  cooperation 
and  dialogue  for  the  purpose  of  developing  amiable 
international relations and settling disputes by peaceful 
means.  With  a  view  to  achieving  those  purposes  and 
objectives, the Charter of the United Nations enshrines 
guiding  principles  on  the  equality  and  sovereignty 
of  States,  non-interference  in  domestic  affairs,  the 
upholding  of  political  independence  and  territorial 
integrity, the provision of international support to deal 
with challenges in development, and the prohibition of 
the use or threat of use of force.
in  national 
legal  systems.  Attempts 
Fighting  impunity  is  a  noble  cause  in  achieving 
justice,  and  it  is  not  the  subject  of  any  difference  of 
opinion.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  national  judicial 
courts  in  the  first  instance,  as  per  the  jurisdictions 
outlined 
to 
politicize  international  justice  and  make  it  a  platform 
for  narrow  interests  and  objectives  are  incompatible 
with  the  international  community’s  efforts  to  achieve 
justice  and  to  uphold  the  principles  and  purpoes  of 
the Charter. Such efforts violate, in fact, the norms of 
international law and increase tensions in international 
relations,  instead  of  establishing  peace  and  friendly 
relations as per the objectives of the United Nations.
In  deliberating  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, we touch on the issue of the relationship 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC), which must take into account the 
independence of both bodies and the lack of a structural 
or organic relationship between the two. What causes 
great concern are the attempts of some States parties to 
the ICC to turn the General Assembly into an Assembly 
of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC.  My 
delegation has consistently reiterated its firm position 
that  it  rejects  such  efforts.  We  have  expressed  that 
position  each  year  in  addressing  the  agenda  item  on 
the ICC report, particularly when those presenting the 
report repeatedly try to offer wide interpretations that 
do  not  reflect  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  relationship, 
which  is  strictly  and  clearly  defined  and  should  not 
be  used  to  appropriate  or  acquire  new  purposes  for 
the  ICC.  In  that  regard,  the  Sudan  has  expressed  its 
opinion  clearly  during  the  informal  consultations 
on  the  draft  resolution  on  the  ICC  report,  and  will 
consistently do so. We will always call for restrictions 
on the relationship and framework between the ICC and 
the United Nations, and we cannot allow an expanded 
interpretation of the relationship.
The  current  practices  of  the  ICC  show  that  it  has 
become  a  tool  in  international  conflicts  and  political 
action  through  its  exclusive  focus  on  Africa  and 
targeting  of  African  leaders  and  symbols.  That  fact 
has encouraged African public opinion to describe the 
ICC  as  a  court  of  the  developed  nations  that  seeks  to 
target the developing nations. Why is the ICC ignoring 
atrocities  and  crimes  in  other  areas?  Is  it  not  an 
international court, concerned with fighting impunity 
whenever and wherever it takes place? Where are the 
principles  of  neutrality,  integrity  and  independence 
that should be the guidelines for any practice of justice? 
Those are difficult questions. We pose those questions, 
and we have renewed them each year but never receive 
convincing and logical answers. However, the current 
practices of the ICC demonstrate the answer, which is 
that  the  ICC  seems  to  have  a  single  jurisdiction  that 
targets Africans and African nations and nothing else.
When we look at the relationship between the ICC 
and the Security Council, we see an important way in 
which the Court has become politicized. One organ is 
supposed to be concerned with achieving international 
justice, and the other serves political interests and the 
settlement of accounts. But the same organ that refers 
situations  to  the  ICC  exempts  another  nation  from 
referral to the ICC. It is therefore a relationship that bears 
witness to the lack of objectivity in the unjust practice 
of the mandate. The Secretary-General’s reports show 
the  developing  relations  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Court. We must uphold the independence of the 
two without trying to integrate the ICC into the United 
Nations system, as that conflicts with the concept and 
scope outlined for that relationship.
My delegation expresses concern about the blatant  
interference  of  the  ICC  in  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly and its continued attempts to prescribe to the 
14-59803
5/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
Secretariat staff how and when they can treat Member 
States and how it expects them to interpret and report 
on  their  duties.  My  delegation  also  reiterates  the 
importance of fighting impunity and achieving justice 
by making use of those judicial and legal organs that are 
willing, qualified and able, and we reject cooperation 
with  the  ICC.  The  Sudan  is  not  a  State  party  to  the 
Rome Statute; we therefore have no obligations towards 
the ICC, as per the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  International  relations 
are maturing from a system operating on the basis of 
power  to  one  that  is  more  rules-based.  The  backbone 
for that change is, of course, the rule of law. One of its 
cornerstones  is  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Global peace is possible if it is also anchored in the 
principles  of  international  criminal  justice.  The  long 
campaign to create a permanent international criminal 
court dates from the Nuremburg trials in 1946. Under 
the Nuremberg principles, crimes against international 
law  are  committed  by  men,  not  by  abstract  entities, 
and  only  by  punishing  the  individuals  who  commit 
such crimes can the provisions of international law be 
enforced.
in  2002  with 
The  campaign  culminated 
the 
required ratification by 60 States parties to the Rome 
Statute. We recall that in February 2003, the Assembly 
of  States  Parties  elected  the  first  bench  of  18  judges, 
which  included  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  who  became 
President in 2009. As he ends his term as President, we 
thank  President  Song  and  his  team  at  The  Hague  for 
tirelessly promoting international criminal justice and 
the central role of the Court. We acknowledge his years 
of service and his vast contribution to the Court.
Our goal is universality. We join the call for many 
more countries to ratify or accede to the Rome Statute, 
particularly  from  our  Asia-Pacific  region.  The  Rome 
Statute  now  has  122  States  parties,  including  all  of 
South America, nearly all of Europe, most of Oceania 
and  about  half  of  Africa.  In  2009,  the  Philippine 
Congress enacted Republic Act No. 9851, also known 
as  the  Philippine  Act  on  Crimes  against  International 
Humanitarian Law, Genocide, and Other Crimes against 
Humanity.  That  paved  the  way  for  our  ratification  of 
the Rome Statute.
Consistent  with  the  principle  of  complementarity, 
the Philippines strives to ensure that its criminal justice 
system  is  transparent,  fair,  effective  and  relatively 
speedy,  allowing  for  the  prosecution  of  the  crimes 
contemplated  by  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Philippines 
affirms the 2012 Declaration of the High-level Meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National  and  International  Levels  (resolution  67/1), 
paragraph 23 of which recognizes the role of the Court 
in a multilateral system that aims to end impunity and 
establish the rule of law.
The work of justice is never easy. But the reality is 
that justice can be particularly complicated and difficult 
in countries affected, if not in fact devastated, by violence 
and  conflict,  whether  sectarian  or  otherwise.  Like  all 
States parties and the larger international community, 
the Philippines is very concerned about developments 
in  the  Court.  We  therefore  pay  close  attention  to  the 
ongoing 
investigations  and 
preliminary examinations of the Court.
judicial  proceedings, 
It is our belief that our friends in Africa who have 
expressed concern about the Court need first of all our 
understanding,  and  not  our  judgement.  Despite  their 
own individual developmental challenges, which, as a 
developing country, the Philippines certainly identifies 
with, African States parties have decided to cast their 
lot with the Court. They have demonstrated their firm 
commitment  to  and  thirst  for  international  criminal 
justice. We must therefore respect the lessons of recent 
history, if we are to ensure that international criminal 
justice  fully  contributes  to  successfully  promoting 
reconciliation.  We  have  no  other  option  but  to  help 
each  other  protect  human  rights  and  build  domestic 
capacities,  including  through  assistance  aimed  at 
developing  human  resources,  such  as  the  training  of 
judges,  prosecutors,  the  police  and  the  military.  We 
must use the principle of universal jurisdiction to serve 
the ends of justice and reconciliation.
The  Philippines  continues  to  work  constructively 
with all States parties in contributing to the resolution 
of the situation and in addressing similar situations in 
the  future.  The  Philippines  is  hopeful  and  confident 
that  we  can  surmount  whatever  challenges  the  Court, 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
face  as  we  join  hands  to  genuinely  understand  and 
help developing country States parties, particularly in 
Africa.
The  United  Nations  development  agenda  is  now 
making a transition from the Millennium Development 
Goals  we  agreed  upon  in  2000  to  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  which  will  define  the  future 
6/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
global  development  framework.  As  a  member  of  the 
Group  of  Friends  of  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  United 
Nations,  the  Philippines  advocates  for  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  in  which  the  rule  of  law  and 
human rights are strongly reflected. Together, we will 
ensure that perpetrators account for their crimes. By so 
doing, the international community will affirm that, in 
the post-2015 development agenda, there will be peace 
with  justice,  not  just  for  our  generation,  but  also  for 
generations yet to come.
Mr. Carrera Castro (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to begin by reaffirming our unequivocal 
support  for  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
and by renewing our commitment to the fight against 
impunity. I would also like to thank President Song for 
presenting  his  report  (A/69/321)  yesterday  (see  A/69/
PV.34), of which we take note, together with the reports 
of the Secretary-General (A/69/324 and A/69/372).
My  delegation  appreciates  the  annual  exchanges 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court,  not  only 
because they strengthen dialogue and the relationship 
between  the  two  organizations,  but  also  because  they 
serve to give visibility to the extremely significant work 
of the Court. Unfortunately, there remain many myths 
and misunderstandings about the ICC. Today’s debate 
is an opportunity to uphold the authority of the Court 
and  learn  more  about  its  mandate  and  the  paramount 
importance of State cooperation in efforts to carry out 
that mandate. Accordingly, I would like to share some 
thoughts on the work of the Court and the challenges it 
currently faces.
First,  with  limited  resources  for  executing  its 
rulings,  the  Court  depends  on  the  cooperation  and 
assistance, not only of States, but also of international 
organizations,  especially  the  United  Nations.  That 
mutual recognition resulted in the negotiations on and 
adoption  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(A/58/874, annex), which provides a broad framework 
for  cooperation  aimed  at  achieving  concrete  results. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  promote  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court,  which  the  General  Assembly 
noted  recently  in  its  latest  resolution  on  the  report  of 
the ICC (resolution 68/305). Furthermore, the General 
Assembly stressed the critical role of focal point played 
by  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  serving  as  the  main 
interlocutor  of  the  Court  with  respect  to  transmitting 
all requests for cooperation to the United Nations and 
notice of Security Council resolutions.
Secondly,  we  are  concerned  that  some  States 
parties  are  not  honouring  their  obligations  under 
the  Rome  Statute  in  apprehending  persons  subject  to 
arrest  warrants  in  their  territories.  If  States  are  truly 
committed  to  ending  impunity,  they  should  not  fail 
to execute ICC warrants nor should they accept visits 
from  suspects.  We  call  for  the  unconditional  respect 
for  and  implementation  of  the  decisions  and  orders 
of  the  Court.  That  leads  me  to  emphasize  the  notion 
that  Governments  should  avoid  having  non-essential 
contact  with  persons  subject  to  an  arrest  warrant. 
The  Secretary-General’s  guidance  on  contacts  with 
persons  who  are  the  subject  of  arrest  warrants  or 
summonses issued by the International Criminal Court 
is therefore essential (A/67/828, annex). Officials of the 
Organization  and  in  particular  senior  representatives 
should conduct themselves in an exemplary manner in 
the enforcement of that policy.
Thirdly,  we  must  renew  not  only  our  political 
commitment but also our financial commitment to the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  remain  concerned 
that  to  date  the  expenses  incurred  by  the  Court  in 
relation to referrals by the Security Council have been 
borne exclusively by the States parties. Last year, the 
Assembly of States Parties of the ICC urged States to 
initiate discussions at the United Nations on the correct 
implementation of article 115 (b) of the Rome Statute. 
The  Security  Council  should  refrain  from  ruling 
on  the  financing  of  referrals  and  leave  it  to  the 
General Assembly to consider the matter. It is not the 
responsibility  of  the  Security  Council  to  finance  its 
referrals to the ICC, nor should it prohibit the General 
Assembly  from  doing  so.  The  respective  provisions 
of the two referrals by the Council encroach upon the 
competence of the General Assembly.
According to Article 17 of the Charter of the United 
Nations and article 115 of the Rome Statute, decisions 
on  financing  fall  under  the  purview  of  the  General 
Assembly.  That  issue  was  the  subject  of  lengthy 
discussions  in  the  negotiations  on  the  most  recent 
General Assembly resolution on the report of the ICC, 
to which I referred earlier. We believe the time has come 
to  resolve  the  matter.  We  will  therefore  put  forward 
proposals on the issue during the current session.
Fourthly,  we  must  redouble  efforts  to  establish 
a  universal  regime.  Each  and  every  step  towards 
14-59803
7/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
universality  will  significantly  reduce  the  risk  of 
impunity  and  lead  to  peacebuilding  and  stability  for 
States.  That  is  why  we  must  continue  promoting  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  maintaining  the 
ongoing  momentum  of  ratifications  and  accessions. 
Moreover,  we  must  continue  efforts  to  put  to  rest  the 
erroneous and unjustified perception that the ICC is a 
court for only one region. 
The  International  Criminal  Court  has  made  the 
promise of universal justice a reality. The Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  will  help  to  ensure  that 
justice is respected and implemented permanently.
the  United  Nations  and 
Mr.  Diener  Sala  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Mexico  wishes  to  thank  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  for 
presenting the tenth annual report of the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  on  its  activities  from  August 
2013 to July 2014 (A/69/321) to the General Assembly.
We regret that, as indicated in the report, this was 
the first time period during which no new State acceded 
to  the  Rome  Statute.  Although  the  Statute  counts  a 
majority of 122 State parties, we should not lose sight of 
the objective of its universal ratification in maximizing 
its preventive potential worldwide. That is why Mexico 
urges States that have not yet done so to promptly ratify 
the Statute and thereby join the collective commitment 
to  combat  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
concern to the international community as a whole.
temporary  acceptance  of 
The  report  presented  by  the  Court  illustrates  its 
various  laudable  achievements  during  the  reporting 
year.  The 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  by  Ukraine  —  a  non-State  party  to  the 
Statute  —  in  April,  as  well  as  the  second  referral  by 
the  Central  African  Republic  of  its  situation  to  the 
Court in June, provide evidence of the growing trust of 
both State parties and non-State parties in the Court’s 
effective  functioning.  Moreover,  at  the  judicial  level, 
this year marked the first definitive judgement issued 
by the Court and the increasing participation by victims 
in its procedures.
There is no doubt that significant progress has been 
achieved  in  strengthening  the  criminal  justice  system 
established by the Rome Statute. At the same time, the 
report indicates that we, as members of the international 
community, must join efforts to overcome the ongoing 
challenges faced by the Court in fully implementing its 
mandate.
First, I refer to the lack of cooperation on the part 
of certain States, illustrated by the outstanding arrest 
warrants  against  12  individuals,  despite  the  fact  that 
some  of  them  could  be  easily  located.  That  is  why 
the cooperation of both State and non-State parties is 
absolutely essential for the Court to fully discharge its 
responsibility.  Given  that  such  a  lack  of  cooperation 
affects  situations  referred  by  the  Security  Council  to 
the  Court,  I  would  highlight  here  the  importance  of 
effective follow-up to the Council’s referrals, including 
through the creation of a mechanism for that purpose.
to  underline 
Secondly,  Mexico  wishes 
the 
importance of the Council’s being guided by objective, 
non-politicized  criteria  in  referring  situations  to  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  as  an  international 
response tool to ensure that international crimes do not 
go unpunished.
Finally,  Mexico  would  recall  an  essential  aspect 
in  the  effective  strengthening  of  the  Court,  namely, 
its budget. As one of the principal contributors to the 
Court’s  budget,  Mexico  reiterates  the  importance  of 
ensuring  sufficient  resources  to  enable  the  Court  to 
fulfil its mandate. We therefore participate actively and 
responsibly in formulating the budget for the Court. The 
enormous  challenges  faced  by  the  Court  as  the  result 
of the increasing number of situations and cases under 
its  consideration  further  demonstrate  the  necessity, 
underlined by my delegation on many occasions in this 
forum,  of  financing  referrals  by  the  Security  Council 
through  funds  provided  by  the  General  Assembly,  as 
set forth in article 115 of the Rome Statute.
Similarly,  we  consider  that  that  challenge  must 
be  accompanied  by  greater  efficiency  in  the  Court’s 
use  of  the  resources  provided.  Mexico  is  convinced 
that  such  efficiency  requires  that  the  Court  focus 
on  fulfilling  its  mandate  under  the  Rome  Statute. 
Moreover,  we  commend  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations, 
international  and  regional  organizations 
and  civil  society  in  mainstreaming  capacity-building 
activities aimed at strengthening national jurisdictions 
in  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  international 
crimes, by way of new and existing technical assistance 
programmes  and  instruments  in  areas  such  as  human 
rights, the rule of law and development. 
In the framework of the Organization, it is worth 
mentioning  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the 
United Nations Development Programme, the Rule of 
Law  Assistance  Unit,  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
8/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
mechanism of the Human Rights Council, and the post-
2015 development agenda, among others. Furthermore, 
it is worth highlighting the work of the Inter-American 
Commission  on  Human  Rights  and  other  regional 
organizations in that key task.
Mexico  recognizes  the  vital  importance  of  such 
strengthened  efforts  and  believes  they  should  be 
carried out in the forums mentioned, rather than within  
the framework of the Rome Statute — which does not 
provide a mandate for such purposes — as a means to 
ensure  more  efficient  use  of  the  budget  allocated  to 
the  Court.  The  relationship  between  the  Organization 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  provides  an 
opportunity  to  jointly  achieve,  from  their  respective 
spheres  of  competence,  the  common  objective  of 
combating  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
concern to the international community as a whole.
Mexico 
reiterates 
to 
its 
commitment 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  its  willingness  to 
continue collaborating towards that common objective, 
both  within  the  Organization  and  in  other  relevant 
forums.
Mr.  Mahnič  (Slovenia):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  opportunity  to  discuss  the  annual  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (A/69/321).  We  see  this 
occasion  as  an  important  chance  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  to  inform  the  United  Nations 
about its activities in the fight against impunity for the 
most heinous crimes of international concern and about 
the activities to strengthen its functioning.
launching  of  new  preliminary 
This year’s report in many ways confirms that the 
International Criminal Court has become increasingly 
busy,  as  the  workload  of  that  judicial  institution  has 
continued to grow throughout the past year, including 
the 
investigations.  
While this confirms that the Court has developed into 
a strong institution, it also underscores the importance 
of,  first,  the  efficient  implementation  of  the  principle 
of complementarily, and secondly, cooperation between 
the ICC and other international actors.
As  the  report  stresses,  “The  Rome  Statute  was 
never  intended  to  replace  national  courts”  (A/69/321, 
para. 64). The primary responsibility for investigating 
and  prosecuting  mass  atrocity  crimes  rests  with 
States.  Improving  domestic  capacity  and  inter-State 
cooperation  is,  therefore,  of  paramount  importance. 
We  commend  the  Court  for  its  active  engagement 
aimed at reinforcing the ability of national authorities 
to  prosecute  Rome  Statute  crimes.  Although  such 
efforts can only be praised, the ICC’s achievements in 
that  respect  are,  naturally,  limited.  However,  States, 
international  organizations  and  other  international 
actors can and should do more to strengthen capacities 
and  increase  cooperation  with  the  ICC  with  a  view 
to  preventing  and  prosecuting  mass  atrocity  crimes. 
The  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  are  particularly 
well  placed  to  contribute  to  capacity-building  in  the 
prosecution  of  Rome  Statute  crimes.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  recent  growing  attention  shown  by  the 
United  Nations  to  those  important  issues  and  call  for 
continuing those important efforts.
With  a  view  to  contributing  to  the  improved 
implementation  of  the  principle  of  complementarity, 
Argentina, Belgium, the Netherlands, Senegal and my 
country, Slovenia, have been working on an initiative 
for the adoption of a new international treaty on mutual 
legal  assistance  and  extradition  between  States  in 
order  to  ensure  the  effective  domestic  investigation 
and prosecution of mass atrocity crimes. I am pleased 
that 
initiative  has  already  gathered  support 
among  States  of  all  regions.  I  would  like  to  take  the 
opportunity to invite all interested States to join. Allow 
me  also  to  bring  to  the  Assembly’s  attention  that  the 
aforementioned  States  will  organize  a  side  event  on 
the initiative to take place in the margins of this year’s 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute.
the 
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  second  important  issue 
addressed in this year’s report, namely, cooperation with 
the ICC. The ICC’s mandate is extremely challenging, 
and  the  complexities  of  its  work  require  close  and 
effective  cooperation  from  States,  international  and 
regional actors and civil society. The United Nations is 
a natural and important partner of the ICC in the fight 
against impunity and the prevention of atrocity crimes, 
as both institutions share common values. We see great 
significance in the support that the ICC receives from 
the  United  Nations.  In  that  context,  my  delegation 
welcomes the adoption of the United Nations guidelines 
on  non-essential  contacts  with  persons  subject  to  an 
arrest  warrant  issued  by  the  International  Criminal 
Court (A/67/828, annex), and calls for their continuing 
implementation.
Slovenia  fully  supports  the  ongoing  discussions 
aimed at strengthening cooperation between the United 
Nations and the ICC. The support that the Court receives 
from the United Nations has the potential to contribute 
significantly to the ICC’s deliberations. That is precisely 
14-59803
9/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
In 
why  greater  effort  is  necessary  to  enhance  dialogue 
and  cooperation  between  the  two  institutions.  In  that 
regard, allow me to draw attention to the “Report of the 
Court on the status of ongoing cooperation between the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations, 
including  in  the  field”,  contained  in  document  ICC-
ASP/12/42 of the Court, which offers valuable proposals 
on ways to introduce the necessary improvements. The 
document deserves further study and attention by the 
United Nations system and its membership.
that  context,  priority  attention 
is  needed 
to  develop  ways  to  strengthen  and  broaden  the 
relationship between the ICC and the Security Council, 
for  example,  by  using  the  Council’s  sanctions  regime 
against  individuals  subject  to  arrest  warrants  issued 
by the Court, by adopting the necessary mandates for 
peacekeeping missions whose presence in the field can 
importantly assist the Court in discharging its activities 
and by supporting the Security Council in its reaction 
to  cases  of  non-cooperation  with  the  ICC.  Slovenia 
would also like to restate its support for the initiative on 
refraining from the use of the veto in cases of atrocity 
crimes.
Cooperation efficiency between the two institutions 
could  also  be  improved  through  greater  coordination. 
The Office of Legal Affairs has played a crucial role as 
the coordinating body on ICC matters, especially with 
regard to the relationship between the United Nations 
and the Court. States can also contribute to improved 
coordination  within  the  United  Nations  system  by 
promoting the mainstreaming of Rome Statute issues.
Slovenia is strongly committed to the rule of law and 
the prevention of impunity for atrocity crimes. The ICC 
plays a central role in the endeavours of the international 
community  aimed  at  pursuing  that  goal  and  therefore 
deserves our full support and cooperation. Just as the 
Court needs political commitment from States, it also 
requires committed leadership and resolve from within. 
Allow me to convey my country’s deep appreciation to 
President Song for his unyielding dedication to the rule 
of law and his able leadership of the Court throughout 
his  mandate.  Slovenia  also  maintains  ongoing 
appreciation  for  his  participation  in  the  regional 
seminar on the ratification and implementation of the 
Kampala amendments, which took place in my country 
in May. His personal support to States’ efforts has been 
crucial, and we hope that such practices will continue 
also in the future as he embarks upon new challenges.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  expressing  Slovenia’s 
full commitment to the Court and by calling upon all 
States that are not yet members of the Court to join the 
ICC and the fight against impunity. We further take the 
opportunity to invite all States parties that have not yet 
done so to ratify the Kampala amendments.
Mr.  Stańczyk  (Poland):  Poland  fully  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  (EU)  on  this  agenda  item  yesterday 
(see A/69/PV.34). The Polish delegation has asked for 
the floor to highlight some of the points that it deems 
especially important.
The universality of the Rome Statute continues to 
be  one  of  the  main  goals  of  the  international  justice 
system and yet, in the present reporting period, no new 
States have ratified the treaty. That can be viewed from 
two angles: one could say that it is an unfortunate and 
disappointing  occurrence,  as  there  are  over  70  States 
that have not ratified the Statute. Therefore, one could 
take a moment to reflect on its universality. Poland fully 
supports the EU stance that there is a pressing need for 
the promotion of the Rome Statute and for investment 
in ratification campaigns.
However,  the  other  angle  would  be  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  been  —  and 
in  the  future  will  likely  continue  —  operating  in  an 
environment where not every State is a party. But that 
should  not  incapacitate  the  ICC  and  its  work,  since 
every State — members and non-members alike — has 
a  positive  role  to  play  in  fulfilling  the  ICC  mission. 
Only with the support of all nations, in a show of global 
unity,  will  the  ICC  become  a  truly  effective  judicial 
mechanism. The onus is, of course, on the ICC States 
parties. The ICC relies on cooperation between them; 
the  refusal  to  transfer  wanted  criminals  is  a  direct 
obstruction of justice and must be duly addressed.
Poland fully agrees with the EU that accountability 
for  the  most  serious  crimes  should  be  guaranteed, 
regardless  of  the  perpetrator’s  status.  By  allowing 
individuals,  no  matter  how  influential,  to  escape 
liability,  States  parties  are  flouting  the  very  laws  put 
in place to ensure the effectiveness of the Court. Arrest 
warrants  must  be  honoured  in  order  to  deter  future 
genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
That applies to all States parties and States not parties 
when  the  Security  Council  has  referred  a  situation  to 
the Court in accordance with Chapter VII of the United 
Nations Charter.
10/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
Poland  strongly  believes  that  when  the  Security 
Council,  acting  under  Chapter  VII,  decides  to  refer  a 
situation  to  the  ICC,  it  must  also  enforce  cooperation 
on the part of the States concerned should they fail to 
cooperate  in  fulfilling  the  Court’s  mandate.  To  that 
end,  we  support  the  establishment  of  a  mechanism  to 
implement  Council  referrals  to  the  ICC  by  entrusting 
that  task  to  the  Security  Council’s  Informal  Working 
Group  on  International  Tribunals.  We  believe  that 
such an arrangement would have a positive impact on 
international peace and security.
We  should  find  the  proper  ways  and  means  to 
advocate  for  our  African  partners’  cooperation  with 
the Court in order to eradicate scepticism towards the 
validity of the Court’s intentions. That is why Poland 
has  always  strongly  supported  the  EU’s  efforts  to 
promote a better understanding of the Court’s mandate.
There are at present some appalling crisis situations 
unfolding around the world. The civil war in Syria has 
destroyed hundreds of thousands of lives and displaced 
more  than  half  its  population;  neighbouring  nations 
are  struggling  to  accommodate  some  2.5  million 
refugees fleeing death and violence. It is a large-scale 
humanitarian  crisis.  Poland  has  been  supportive  of 
initiatives aimed at bringing justice to the region with 
an active role for the ICC.
The situation in Ukraine also demands a response 
from States parties in condemning acts of aggression, 
war  crimes  and  the  resulting  humanitarian  crisis. 
An  idle  stance  could  tarnish  the  ICC’s  reputation, 
propagating an image of impotence and ineffectiveness. 
Poland  particularly  appreciates  Ukraine’s  acceptance 
of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  relation  to  events  of  the 
so-called  Euromaidan.  Poland  would  like  to  welcome 
Ukraine as a State party to the Rome Statute as soon as 
possible, in order to ensure that justice is rendered in 
both domestic and international contexts.
The pursuit of international justice and the protection 
of  human  rights  are  synonymous  with  Poland’s  belief 
that only through global cooperation can the world put 
an end to impunity. The International Criminal Court is 
central to the achievement of justice and accountability 
in  the  battle  against  those  responsible  for  the  most 
serious  crimes,  along  with  the  States  that  harbour  or 
otherwise  endorse  such  actions.  Poland  has  always, 
in various ways, supported the International Criminal 
Court’s mission. As mentioned in the statement made by 
the observer of the European Union (see A/69/PV.34), 
only  20  countries  have  contributed  to  the  Trust  Fund 
for Victims. Poland is proud to be one of them. Most 
recently, Poland has ratified the Kampala amendments 
to the Rome Statute. We invite others to follow suit.
The 
for 
Informal  Ministerial  Network 
the 
International Criminal Court is a perfect example of the 
political support States parties can provide the Court in 
order  to  help  reassert  its  position  in  the  international 
arena.  That  is  especially  important  given  the  current 
adverse political climate and distrust towards the ICC 
in  certain  regions  of  the  world.  Poland  takes  pride  in 
being a member of the Informal Ministerial Network, 
which is a valuable extension of the mission of the ICC, 
providing  a  venue  for  a  concurrent  approach  towards 
issues at the forefront of current policy. It is a symbol 
of progress and initiative, and a display of the strength 
of unity among States parties in their resolve to create 
a  lasting  and  positive  impact  on  human  rights.  Now 
as  much  as  ever,  there  is  a  need  for  States  parties 
to  encourage  political  support  in  regions  holding 
reservations towards a global system of accountability.
We  must  encourage  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  all  other  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations to work together, and think first not of national 
endeavours, but of the collective goals and objectives of 
the ICC to create a lasting peace for the benefit of the 
entire world. The issue of human rights is non-partisan 
and  will  always  transcend  the  individual  political 
ambitions of nations.
Mr.  Nonomura  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  his 
comprehensive  report  (A/69/321)  on  the  work  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC). As my delegation 
has  said  on  many  occasions,  Japan  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  ICC.  The  Court  was  established 
to  punish  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community  and  thereby  to  prevent  such 
crimes. It contributes to the enhancement of the rule of 
law at the national and international levels.
We  all  know  that  the  Court  has  been  playing  a 
remarkable role in putting an end to impunity against 
such crimes as genocide, crimes against humanity and 
war  crimes.  However,  it  must  also  be  acknowledged 
that the purpose of the Court cannot be achieved by the 
Court alone. In that regard, allow me to commend the 
tireless  efforts  of  Ambassador  Intelmann  of  Estonia, 
President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties.  Let  me 
also express Japan’s willingness to fully cooperate with 
Mr. Sidiki Kaba.
14-59803
11/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
Cooperation between the ICC and the United Nations 
is crucial. It is particularly relevant with regard to cases 
referred by the Security Council. As was discussed in 
the open debate in the Security Council last week (see 
S/PV.7285), it is appropriate for the Council to find out 
what  measures  should  be  taken  to  follow  up  on  such 
cases through dialogue with interested countries.
One  of  the  key  priorities  for  the  ICC  is  to  serve 
the  people  who  have  suffered  from  the  grave  crimes 
and  to  support  them,  especially  women,  children  and 
affected communities. In this regard, Japan commends 
the  praiseworthy  work  of  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims 
for the benefit of victims and their families under the 
leadership  of  the  Trust  Fund’s  Board  of  Directors.  I 
feel proud to report that Prime Minister Abe of Japan 
announced  Japan’s  first  voluntary  contribution  to  the 
Trust Fund in May.
As  a  leading  supporter  of  the  Court  in  the  Asia-
Pacific  region,  Japan  renews 
to 
continuing  to  encourage  our  Asia-Pacific  friends  that 
have not yet joined the Rome Statute to do so. Japan is 
willing to assist friends, if they wish, in the development 
of their legal systems and human resources.
its  commitment 
In conclusion, Japan remains deeply committed to 
providing the ICC with its unwavering support and to 
cooperating with the Court so that it can be even more 
efficient, effective and universal.
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): The latest report 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (A/69/321)  is 
indicative of a vibrant international judicial institution 
that  is  continuing  to  make  great  strides.  Another 
milestone  was  reached  during  the  reporting  period 
when  the  Court’s  first  verdict  became  final.  The 
consensus  on  fighting  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
crimes under international law now extends far beyond 
the  122  States  that  have  chosen  to  ratify  the  Rome 
Statute, and the work of the Court has had a tremendous 
positive  impact  in  that  regard.  Whenever  there  are 
reports of crimes that shock our collective conscience, 
there  are  calls  for  the  Court  to  be  involved,  whether 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Syria, Iraq, 
Palestine  or  South  Sudan.  The  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC) is the place that people turn to when there 
is  a  glaring  impunity  gap,  and  it  is  therefore  dealing 
with huge expectations for bringing justice around the 
globe. A vision of the Court is thus firmly established 
in the minds of people all around the world, and we as 
States have the challenge of making that vision a full 
reality, in cooperation with the Court. We have come a 
long way in the last 15 years, but we have much to do to 
make that vision a practical reality.
It  is  true  that  there  are  aspects  of  the  Court’s 
daily  workings  that  leave  us  dissatisfied.  We  concur 
with  those  who  consider  that  the  Court  is  now  past 
its  infancy,  and  we  expect  it  to  apply  the  lessons  it 
has learned from its first 10 years of judicial activity. 
Expediting  judicial  proceedings,  with  full  respect  for 
the  rights  of  the  accused,  will  be  key  to  securing  the 
ICC’s central place in the future. We are pleased to see 
that the Court is beginning to live up to that challenge, 
and we are confident that the next generation of judges 
will  further  advance  that  work.  But  in  voicing  such 
expectations, at the same time we should always look at 
our own role and think about what we as States can do 
to  make  the  institution  stronger.  We  must  understand 
that international criminal justice often does not work 
as  fast  as  we  would  like.  The  trials  of  the  two  main 
accused  persons  in  the  case  of  Srebrenica  will  be 
concluded 20 years after the fact, which does not make 
the verdict any less important.
The Rome Statute system is strongly consent-based. 
The  Court  is  primarily  designed  to  prosecute  crimes 
committed on the territory of States parties or by their 
nationals.  And  the  Court  has  indeed  closely  followed 
that  concept,  by  focusing  its  activities  on  States  that 
have  themselves  requested  that  the  Court  investigate 
in  their  territory  or  pledged  full  cooperation  in  an 
investigation. But of course the Statute also allows the 
Security Council to refer situations to the Prosecutor, a 
provision designed to enable the Council to use the ICC 
as a tool for bringing justice beyond the family of States 
parties and thus obviate the need for new, expensive ad 
hoc tribunals, as well as to prevent impunity in places 
where  the  most  serious  crimes  are  committed  on  a 
massive scale.
It  is  now  clear  that  that  aspect  of  the  Statute  is 
not  working  as  well  as  we  would  like.  The  Council 
has referred only two situations to the ICC, Darfur in 
the Sudan, and Libya. Both manifestly deserved to be 
referred, but so do others. Liechtenstein was among the 
74 States sponsoring a draft Security Council resolution 
(S/2014/348)  that  would  have  referred  the  situation  in 
Syria to the Court. Despite very strong support inside 
and  outside  the  Council,  the  double  veto  of  the  draft 
resolution  ensured  that  impunity  continued  to  be  the 
order of the day in Syria. 
The  harsh  reality  is  that  the  Court’s  ability  to 
provide  justice  for  victims  in  more  than  70  countries 
12/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
is subject to the Security Council’s willingness to see 
justice served, and thus to the political considerations 
of  its  members,  particularly  its  permanent  members. 
The  best  way  to  expand  the  Court’s  reach  is  thus  to 
broaden  its  acceptance  and  have  more  States  become 
party to the Statute. I therefore echo President Kutesa’s 
call  yesterday  for  making  the  Statute  universal,  and 
look forward to welcoming new members into the ICC 
family.
Even  in  the  two  instances  where  the  Council  has 
used its referral power, its lack of follow-up has limited 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Court’s  involvement,  most 
notably in the case of the wholesale lack of cooperation 
of  the  Government  of  the  Sudan,  which,  in  spite  of 
that  country’s  clear  obligation  under  Chapter  VII 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  is  a  blot  on  the 
effectiveness of the Security Council in general and its 
commitment to justice in particular. Council referrals 
usually concern States that have not ratified the Rome 
Statute,  and  thus  can  be  effective  only  if  the  Council 
is  resolute  in  following  up  and  ensuring  cooperation 
on the part of a State that has no obligation under the 
Statute  itself.  The  Council’s  referrals  have  thus  been 
a mixed blessing for the Court. On the one hand, they 
have  illustrated  its  central  importance  in  the  fight 
against impunity; on the other, they have led States to 
question the benefit of such referrals, particularly if the 
broader membership of the United Nations is unwilling 
to absorb the costs they create.
To a large extent, the Court’s effectiveness depends 
on  the  cooperation  it  gets  from  States  parties.  The 
most  visible  area  of  cooperation  is  in  the  execution 
of  arrest  warrants,  and  it  is  disturbing  that  of  the  30 
that have been issued, almost half remain outstanding. 
That  is  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  location  of  many 
of the indictees is public knowledge, with at least two 
currently incarcerated in their State of nationality. That 
is not acceptable. Full cooperation with the ICC is not 
merely commendable, it is an obligation that all of us 
voluntarily undertake when we ratify the Rome Statute. 
We cannot expect or demand that the Court be effective 
without what we ourselves designed as a centrepiece of 
the Statute’s system. Full cooperation extends beyond 
arrest and surrender, of course. The Prosecutor — and, 
indeed,  the  defence  as  well  —  relies  on  cooperation 
to  conduct  investigations,  facilitate  the  appearance  of 
witnesses and ensure that indicted persons’ assets are 
frozen.  That  cooperation  is  crucial  and  must  also  be 
full and timely in order to be effective.
The Court’s positive assessment of its cooperation 
with the Secretariat is reassuring. We are pleased that 
United Nations officials continue to implement a policy 
of  essential  contacts,  but  stress  again  that  it  must  be 
implemented  consistently,  especially  by  high-level 
officials,  particularly  those  tasked  with  mediation 
work.
Since  the  United  Nations  was  created  to  save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war,  I 
should  not  fail  to  mention  the  Kampala  amendments 
on the crime of aggression. The amendments, adopted 
in  2010,  complement  the  prohibition  of  the  illegal 
use of force enshrined in the United Nations Charter, 
rendering the most serious forms of the illegal use of 
force by one State against another a punishable offence 
before the Court, which will thereby help it enforce a 
core principle of the Charter.
The  total  number  of  ratifications  of  the  Kampala 
amendments now stands at 18. We are confident that we 
will reach the necessary 30 ratifications well in time to 
allow for their activation in 2017, the earliest possible 
moment  to  do  so.  We  continue  to  offer  assistance  to 
States that are interested in ratifying and implementing 
the  Kampala  amendments.  We  also  encourage  States 
that  are  interested  in  joining  the  Court  to  ratify  the 
Rome  Statute,  together  with  the  amendments  adopted 
in 2010.
Mr.  Joyini 
I 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
President Song and thank him for his leadership at the 
helm of the Court for so many years. His contribution 
will be lasting, and we will miss him.
(South  Africa): 
thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  giving  us  the  floor  on  this  very 
important topic. As a State party to the Rome Statute, 
my delegation has constantly and consistently expressed 
its support for the International Criminal Court (ICC), 
and it is with great pleasure that we can reiterate that 
support today. 
We continue to see the ICC as an important element 
in the fight against impunity and in the promotion of 
justice. My delegation wishes to extend its appreciation 
to  the  Court  for  its  comprehensive  report  (A/69/321), 
submitted  pursuant  to  article  6  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The  report  covers  a 
wide array of activities of the Court, both judicial and 
institutional. We have particularly taken note of part II 
of  the  report,  an  update  on  judicial  and  prosecutorial 
the  United  Nations  and 
14-59803
13/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
activities. As a firm believer in judicial independence, 
we shall restrict our comments on that chapter. 
The effective and efficient functioning of the ICC 
itself,  being  independent  but  also  accountable  to  its 
administration, is an important factor in putting an end 
to impunity and in setting standards for the prosecution 
and adjudication of the most heinous crimes of concern 
to humankind. By trying those responsible, the world 
exposes the truth of the atrocities, deters future crimes 
and helps to bring justice to the victims. Victims deserve 
justice. That will happen by strengthening institutions 
of  justice  nationally  and  internationally.  The  ICC 
is  central  to  that  vision  and  must  be  strengthened  to 
deliver justice everywhere.
South Africa continues to believe that efforts to build 
national  capacity  to  investigate  and  prosecute  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community 
remain an important tool in the fight against impunity. 
It  is  therefore  appropriate  that  complementarity  is  at 
the heart of the Rome Statute. It is for that reason that 
South Africa, together with Denmark, during our time 
as co-focal points, tried our level best to exert efforts to 
mainstream complementarity-related activities. 
For  South  Africa,  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
International Criminal Court it created do not operate 
in  a  vacuum,  but  are,  rather,  important  elements 
in  a  new  system  of  international  law.  That  modern 
system  is  characterized  by  greater  solidarity,  which, 
while  remaining  true  to  the  principle  of  sovereignty, 
prioritizes  the  common  good  of  humankind.  The 
foundations  for  that  modern  system  of  law  are,  of 
course, contained in the Charter of the United Nations, 
and  in  particular  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  —  namely,  to  maintain  international 
peace and security and to bring about peaceful solutions 
to conflict in conformity with the principles of justice 
and international law.
International  criminal  law,  as  it  stands  today, 
is  built  upon  the  pursuit  of  peace  through  the  fight 
against  impunity.  As  early  as  1946,  the  Nuremburg 
Tribunal  recognized  that  only  by  fighting  impunity 
can  the  provisions  of  international  law  be  enforced 
and  peace  attained.  The  relationship  between  peace 
and justice is therefore ubiquitous in the development 
of modern international law. The relationship between 
peace  and  justice  was  evident  to  the  drafters  of  the 
ICC Statute. We are firmly committed to the idea that 
peace and security, on the one hand, and justice and the 
fight  against  impunity,  on  the  other,  must  go  hand  in 
hand.  We  find  those  values  —  which,  we  emphasize, 
are the foundation of the modern system in which we 
interact — to be reflected in the Rome Statute.
For South Africa, therefore, peace and justice must 
necessarily go together. We cannot pursue one without 
regard to the other, and we certainly cannot pursue one 
at the expense of the other. They are two sides of the 
same coin. While the Court continues to pursue justice, 
the  political  organs  of  the  system  we  have  created, 
including  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security 
Council and the United Nations Security Council, must 
use all means available to them to ensure the attainment 
and maintenance of peace and security.
Mrs.  Baaro  (Kiribati),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
In  conclusion,  the  International  Criminal  Court 
is  an  institution  designed  to  create  a  better  world  by 
fighting  impunity.  The  role  of  the  ICC  in  the  peace 
and  security  landscape  is  increasingly  coming  to  be 
understood, and further work will need to be done to 
ensure  that  peace  and  justice  efforts  continue  to  be 
viewed as complementary. My delegation will continue 
supporting the Court, so that it can grow from strength 
to strength.
Mr. Belaid (Algeria): First of all, allow me to join 
previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  the  Honourable 
Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  the  exhaustive  report 
(A/69/321)  he  presented  on  the  activities  of  the  Court 
during  the  period  from  1  August  2013  to  31  July 
2014, in accordance with article 6 of the Relationship 
Agreement between the United Nations and the ICC.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  two  reports  on  the  expenses  incurred  and 
the  United  Nations 
reimbursements  received  by 
in  connection  with  assistance  provided 
the 
ICC  (A/69/372),  and  information  relevant  to  the 
implementation  of  article  3  of 
the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC 
(A/69/324).
to 
this  opportunity 
My  delegation  welcomes 
to 
contribute  to  the  General  Assembly’s  discussion  on 
that  crucial  agenda  item,  and  to  echo  the  concerns 
raised by the African Union (AU), African States and 
many  other  countries  all  over  the  world  with  regard 
to the need for the Security Council, the ICC and the 
14/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  engage  constructively 
with the requests submitted both by the African Union 
and African States.
The issue of international justice must include the need 
to respect the sovereignty and national independence of 
all States, including the African countries.
My  country  would  like  to  reiterate  once  again  its 
unflinching  commitment  to  promoting  human  rights 
and  democracy,  upholding  the  rule  of  law  and  good 
governance, fighting impunity and granting access to 
justice.
In that regard, we understand, on the one hand, that 
there is a need for the international community to commit 
to  fighting  impunity  and  to  ensuring  the  prosecution 
of  individuals  suspected  of  having  committed  serious 
crimes, such as the crime of genocide, war crimes and 
crimes against humanity. On the other hand, we have to 
stress the primary role of sovereign States in pursuing 
those objectives.
I  should  like  to  recall  in  this  respect  that  this 
primacy derives from many well-established principles 
under  international  customary  law,  international  law 
and  national  laws,  particularly  the  principle  of  State 
sovereignty,  territorial  jurisdiction,  the  principle  of 
nationality, the primacy of actions by States regarding 
criminal prosecutions, the protective principle and, most 
of  all,  immunity  of  Heads  of  State  and  Governments 
during the exercise of their functions.
The  primacy  of  national  jurisdictions,  granted 
by  the  Rome  Statute  itself,  under  the  principle  of 
complementarity, have — unduly — not been applied 
to certain cases that were referred to the Court by the 
Security Council or the Office of the Prosecutor. In that 
regard, we should not be astonished to see many States, 
even those that are parties to the Statute, questioning 
the impartiality of this institution and the criteria that 
have been used in deciding whether to refer to the Court 
or  not,  or  to  hear  them  expressing  fears  and  doubts 
about political manipulation and selectivity.
It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  recall  that 
politicization, selectivity and the misuse of indictments 
and  abuse  in  the  targeting  of  only  African  States 
and  African  leaders  by  the  International  Criminal 
Court  were  the  main  reason  for  the  convening  of  the 
Extraordinary  Summit  of  the  African  Union  held  in 
Addis Ababa one year ago, on 12 October 2013.
As noted by African Heads of State and Government 
during that Summit, the activities of the International 
Criminal  Court  throughout  its  11  years  of  existence 
focused  exclusively  on  Africa,  while  unacceptable 
situations in other parts of the world have been ignored. 
In 
that  regard,  based  on  national 
law  and 
international customary law, which grant sitting Heads 
of  State  and  Government  and  other  senior  officials 
immunity  during  their  tenure,  the  African  Summit 
decided:
“That to safeguard the constitutional order, stability 
and integrity of Member States, no charges shall be 
commenced or continued before any international 
court or tribunal against any serving AU Head of 
State or Government or anybody acting or entitled 
to act in such capacity during their term of office”.
The negative response to the legally sound proposals 
supported  or  initiated  by  the  African  Union  to  defer 
the  proceedings  initiated  against  two  African  serving 
Presidents and a Deputy President in accordance with 
article 16 of the Rome Statute of the ICC on the deferral 
of  cases,  is  a  matter  of  deep  disappointment  to  the 
whole African continent.
A real opportunity was therefore wasted to defuse 
polarization; reinforce the conviction of the impartiality 
of international justice; and preserve and safeguard the 
peace, security and stability of our continent as well as 
its dignity, sovereignty and integrity.
Mr. Zellweger (Switzerland) (spoke in French): The 
Swiss delegation would like to touch on three points.
First,  I  would  refer  to  the  contribution  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  to  international 
criminal justice. The hard work of the Court over the 
past 12 years is starting to bear fruit, with three trial 
verdicts rendered, one of them final, and 18 other cases 
pending.
In  assessing  these  figures,  we  should  not  forget 
all the hard work behind them. The Court has opened 
investigations  in  eight  situations  with  very  different 
contexts.  It  is  this  multiplicity  of  situations  and  their 
inherent complexities that distinguish the ICC from all 
other international criminal jurisdictions.
The  ICC  is  not  only  very  busy;  increasingly  it  is 
also  perceived  as  a  key  actor  in  the  prevention  and 
management  of  the  consequences  of  the  most  serious 
crimes.  Reference  to  the  Court  is  regularly  made  in 
major reports, resolutions and political discussions. In 
addition, almost two thirds of all States Members of the 
United Nations have ratified the Rome Statute.
14-59803
15/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
Despite 
these  positive  developments,  current 
events  show  that  heinous  crimes  are  often  committed 
outside the territorial jurisdiction of the ICC: in Syria, 
Iraq and North Korea, to name just a few. The inability 
of the ICC to act in such situations is a stark reminder 
of the need to continue to promote the universality of 
its Statute. Only through universality can the ICC act 
as a safety net to ensure justice for victims throughout 
the world.
The second point that I would like to address is the 
relationship between the ICC and the United Nations, 
more specifically the Security Council. In the light of 
the magnitude of the crimes and the number of victims 
in Syria, 13 Security Council members voted in favour 
of  the  recent  draft  resolution  containing  a  referral  to 
the  ICC  (S/2014/348);  it  was  sponsored  by  65  States. 
As we all know, the draft resolution ultimately was not 
adopted.  That  is  why  the  23  countries  that  joined  the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  (ACT) 
Group have been persistently calling on the permanent 
members of the Security Council to voluntarily refrain 
from  using  the  veto  to  block  Council  action  aimed  at 
preventing or ending atrocities.
In  addition,  my  delegation  will  continue 
to 
work  towards  more  consistent  follow-up  to  Council 
action  related  to  the  ICC  by  promoting  the  creation 
of  a  subsidiary  body,  robust  reactions  in  cases  of 
non-cooperation,  and  the  mainstreaming  of  justice 
considerations in the relevant mandates of the Security 
Council.
Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  on  the 
relationship  between  the  Court  and  its  States  parties. 
After  more  than  10  years  of  existence,  the  Court  has 
achieved a level of stability and maturity that makes it 
possible to begin a process of reflection and dialogue 
on  certain  aspects  of  its  work  that  need  further 
discussion.  In  doing  so,  it  is  important  to  remain 
impartial,  objective  and  constructive.  Engaging  in 
useless polemics will only serve the objectives of those 
who, from the beginning, opposed the creation of this 
institution.  Furthermore,  we  must  avoid  at  all  costs 
undermining the Court’s independence and legitimacy.
In that regard, having a constructive dialogue with 
the Court on certain aspects of its activities would show 
our  common  willingness  to  strengthen  the  Court  and 
contribute  to  its  success.  One  example  of  an  aspect 
that  deserves  to  be  dealt  with  in  more  detail  through 
dialogue is the Court’s effectiveness. Thomas Lubanga 
has been in custody in The Hague for more than eight 
and a half years, and the appeal against his conviction 
is still pending. The effectiveness of the proceedings is 
essential for the victims, the accused, the rational use 
of financial resources and — most importantly — the 
Court’s credibility and deterrent effect.
Improving  effectiveness  while  safeguarding  the 
fairness of proceedings is a shared responsibility of the 
three categories of actors: the ICC, States parties and 
civil  society.  For  its  part,  the  ICC  should  increase  its 
efforts to adopt effective practices. The existing legal 
framework  largely  provides  the  necessary  flexibility 
and the Court has already made positive steps in that 
direction. We also welcome the readiness of different 
Court bodies to engage in a dialogue on those issues. 
States  parties  should  adopt  a  more  strategic  vision  of 
the  Court  in  order  to  limit  the  administrative  burden 
and  make  room  for  discussing  important  issues. 
Performance  indicators  could  be  defined  as  part  of  a 
structured  dialogue  on  effectiveness  between  States 
parties  and  the  Court.  Lastly,  civil  society  should 
increase  its  invaluable  support  to  the  ICC  through 
training, seminars and other relevant activities. At the 
same  time,  civil  society  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in 
representing victims’ interests.
Switzerland is committed to continuing to work with 
all stakeholders with a view to strengthening the ICC 
as the leading international criminal justice institution 
in  the  world.  We  must  overcome  our  differences  and 
work  together  to  make  the  universal  values  that  we 
have collectively decided to uphold a reality in order to 
ensure justice for victims and put an end to impunity 
for the most serious crimes.
Mr.  Ceriani  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court, Judge Sang-Hyun Song, 
for introducing the Court’s annual report (A/69/321).
Uruguay has historically pursued the legal settlement 
of  disputes  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Today,  we  wish  to 
underscore  the  important  work  of  the  internationally 
established tribunals in ensuring that justice is served 
and  in  prosecuting  offenders  whoever  and  wherever 
they  are.  That  was  the  case  following  the  atrocious 
human  rights  violations  in  the  1990s  in  Rwanda  and 
the  former  Yugoslavia,  which  led  to  the  creation  of 
the two respective ad hoc tribunals. The international 
community  finally  realized  that  there  must  be  an 
International  Criminal  Court  so  that  such  aberrations 
would  not  be  repeated  and  so  that  those  responsible 
16/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
would be prosecuted with the full weight of law, either 
at the national or international level.
This  year  marks  the  sixteenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  To  commemorate  that  anniversary 
is to celebrate the development and historic evolution 
of  international  law,  but  primarily  it  is  to  pay  tribute 
to  the  maturity  of  the  international  community  in  its 
fight against impunity. Our country welcomes the fact 
that, since the signing of the Rome Statute, the Court’s 
membership has grown to encompass nearly two thirds 
of  the  total  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
hope  that  this  growth  trend  will  continue  so  that  the 
membership  of  both  bodies  can  be  equal  in  the  near 
future and the Court’s jurisdiction can be fully extended 
to  all  of  humankind.  Also,  we  hope  that  the  Member 
States  that  have  not  yet  acceded  will  reconsider  their 
rejection  of  the  Rome  Statute,  as  that  would  mean  a 
harmful step backwards for the primacy of justice for 
acts committed by man.
After  ratifying  the  Rome  Statute,  Uruguay  was 
the first country of Latin America to implement it by 
law.  Last  year,  we  had  the  great  honour  of  being  the 
first  Latin  American  country  to  have  deposited  our 
instrument of ratification of the Kampala amendments 
to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 
We welcome the ratifications of the amendments, which 
were  carried  out  this  year,  and  we  encourage  other 
Member States of the region and elsewhere to do so as 
well so that the amendments can take effect as soon as 
possible, that is, in 2017.
In  2013,  we  decided  to  assume  the  responsibility 
of  being  regional  coordinators  for  the  Group  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  for  cases  of 
non-cooperation  with  the  Court.  That  task  allows 
us,  together  with  the  remaining  three  coordinators, 
to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  presidency  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  whenever  there  is  a  case 
of  non-cooperation.  We  hope  to  welcome  the  latest 
coordinator  soon,  and  that  he  or  she  will  be  from  a 
region that has not yet been represented. All of those 
steps show Uruguay’s high level of commitment to the 
International  Criminal  Court  as  the  representative  of 
international criminal justice.
With  regard  to  the  cases  referred  to  the  Court  by 
the Security Council, we are pleased that the practice 
has  been  established  and  we  hope  it  will  continue  to 
be  used.  We  note  that  the  impact  of  armed  conflicts 
and the increase in perpetrators of serious human rights 
violations  remain  disturbing.  Correspondingly,  we 
believe that the Security Council must act consistently 
in similar situations and cases. We cannot pretend that 
the Council is bound by historical precedence, because 
it  is  not  a  jurisdictional  body  but  a  political  one. 
However, it is also the organ empowered by the Charter 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security,  and  it 
acts on behalf of the entire international community. It 
should  act  with  non-selective  responsibility  wherever 
peace is threatened. In that regard, we believe it would 
be advisable for the permanent members of the Security 
Council to consider abstaining from the use of the veto 
to block action of the Council in preventing or ending 
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.
It  is  quite  clear  that,  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  article  115  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
United  Nations  must  contribute  to  the  costs  incurred 
by  the  Organization’s  referrals  made  by  the  Security 
Council,  in  order  to  share  the  financial  burden  of 
international  criminal  justice.  To  that  end,  we  hope 
that, in accordance with article 13 of the Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  two  bodies,  an  agreement 
will  be  reached  as  soon  as  possible  on  the  respective 
arrangements 
that  cooperation.  In 
conclusion,  we  believe  that  there  must  be  greater 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Court,  which  means  a  monitoring  mechanism  for 
cases  referred  by  the  Council  to  the  Court  should  be 
established.
implement 
to 
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Cuba 
has taken note of the report of the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) (A/69/321).
We  wish  here 
impunity  for  crimes  affecting 
to  express  our  commitment 
to  combating 
the 
international community. Events of recent years clearly 
show  the  need  for  an  international  jurisdictional 
institution  that  is  independent  and  that  combats 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes.  Nevertheless, 
pursuant to article 16 of the Rome Statute and the broad 
powers granted to the Security Council in the work of 
the International Criminal Court, the reality is that the 
Court  is  not  necessarily  an  independent  institution. 
Moreover,  that  issue  not  only  tends  to  distort  the 
jurisdiction of that body, also violates the principles of 
independence of legal bodies and affects transparency 
and impartiality in the administration of justice.
Referrals  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council 
confirm  the  negative  trend  to  which  our  country  has 
referred  on  several  occasions.  Through  its  referrals, 
14-59803
17/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
the Security Council continually violates international 
law  and  attacks  developing  countries  on  behalf  of 
an  alleged  fight  against  impunity.  That  is  why  Cuba 
reiterates its position in favour of the establishment of 
an international criminal jurisdiction that is impartial, 
non-selective, effective and just, complements national 
justice systems, and is truly independent and therefore 
not subordinate to political interests that may distort its 
authority.
Unfortunately,  issues  related  to  those  topics  were 
unresolved  in  the  outcome  of  the  Review  Conference 
of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, held in Kampala in 2010. The Court, as a body 
dealing with international criminal law, has remained 
subject to the illegitimate and undemocratic decisions 
of  the  Security  Council,  which  violates  international 
law  and  continues  to  grant  total  impunity  to  those 
truly responsible for crimes and massacres against the 
international community. It is regrettable that Security 
Council  resolutions  stipulate  that  crimes  committed 
by  the  forces  of  certain  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council and non-parties to the Rome Statute 
are  excluded  from  investigation.  Such  exclusions  are 
offensive to the international community and highlight 
the  political  double  standards  under  which  that  body 
operates,  and  violate  the  principles  governing  the 
activities of the International Criminal Court.
The  delegation  of  Cuba  reiterates  that  the  ICC 
cannot ignore international treaties or the principles of 
international law. The Court must respect the principle 
of law relating to the State’s right to consent to be bound 
by a treaty, reflected in article 11 of the 1969 Vienna 
Convention on the Law of Treaties. Cuba reiterates its 
deep  concern  over  the  precedent  that  was  created  by 
the Court’s decisions to carry out judicial proceedings 
against  nationals  of  non-State  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute that have not even accepted the jurisdiction of 
the Court in accordance with article 12 of the Statute. 
As clearly spelled out in the Secretary-General’s report, 
“[t]he  Rome  Statute  was  never  intended  to  replace 
national courts” (A/69/321, para. 64). We must not lose 
sight  of  the  fact  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the  ICC  must 
remain independent of the political bodies of the United 
Nations  and  always  work  in  a  way  complementary  to 
national criminal jurisdictions.
The people of Cuba have been subjected to various 
forms of aggression for 50 years, leading to thousands 
of deaths and injuries in our country and untold material 
economic and financial losses. Yet the definition of the 
crime of aggression reached at the Kampala conference 
is far from taking such elements into account. The crime 
of aggression must be defined in a generic fashion that 
covers all forms of aggression in international relations 
among  States,  and  is  not  limited  to  the  use  of  armed 
force but extends to the sovereignty, territorial integrity 
and political independence of States.
The  ICC  must  report  its  activities  to  the  General 
Assembly  pursuant  to  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  Although  Cuba  is  not  a  State  party 
to  the  Court,  it  is  prepared  to  continue  to  participate 
actively in the negotiation process with that institution, 
in  particular  on  the  resolution  adopted  every  year  by 
the  General  Assembly  with  respect  to  ICC  reports. 
However, given the nature of the resolution, its adoption 
in  the  context  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  which  all 
Member  States  participate  whether  or  not  they  are 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
negotiation  process  be  conducted  with  transparency 
and  impartiality  in  an  inclusive  way  based  on  all 
opinions  and  concerns  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations.
Cuba  reaffirms  its  readiness  to  fight  impunity 
and  its  commitment  to  international  criminal  justice 
in  adherence 
transparency, 
independence,  impartiality  and  strict  application  and 
respect for international law.
the  principles  of 
to 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  its 
resolution  1970  (2011),  the  Security  Council  referred 
the crimes committed in Libya since 15 February 2011 
to the International Criminal Court (ICC), despite the 
fact that Libya is not a State party to the Rome Statute. 
Nevertheless,  Libya  would  like  to  attain  positive 
complementarity between Libyan national jurisdiction 
and the ICC and close cooperation between the Office 
of  the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC  and  the  Office  of  the 
Libyan  Prosecutor,  which  would  achieve  justice  and 
fight impunity. To translate that into action, the Deputy 
Prosecutor of Libya signed with the Prosecutor of the 
ICC  a  memorandum  of  understanding  in  November 
2013  aimed  at  sharing  the  burden  of  investigations, 
to  ensure  additional  legal  prosecutions  for  the  grave 
crimes  perpetrated  in  Libya,  and  to  bring  them  to 
justice.
We would also like to continue our efforts to promote 
complementarity in exchanging information regarding 
the  investigations  and  prosecutions  conducted  by  the 
18/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
two sides. In May, we concluded arrangements between 
the Libyan authorities and the ICC regarding the entry 
of ICC officials and advisers into Libyan territory and 
to provide them privileges and immunities that would 
enable  them  to  carry  out  their  responsibilities.  The 
Office  of  the  Deputy  Prosecutor  has  made  available 
samples  of  investigation  proceedings  and  evidence 
and  documents  regarding  preventive  detention  for  the 
aides of the former regime, who are accused of various 
crimes.
The Libyan judicial system is keen on the principle 
that litigants must be present and that the Court should 
be  responsible  for  adhering  to  such  rules.  In  order 
to  address  certain  security  challenges,  on  26  March 
the  Libyan  legislature  issued  act  7  (2014),  by  which 
it  amended  article  343  of  the  penal  code  to  allow  the 
accused to be connected remotely with the courtroom, 
as we feared for the safety of the accused or that they 
might flee. We asked the International Criminal Court 
to  provide  us  with  modern  means  of  communication 
to  that  end.  The  amendment  was  implemented  with 
the use of closed-circuit video, whereby Saif Al-Islam 
Al-Qadhafi, Abdullah Al-Senussi and others attended 
public  sessions,  in  accordance  with  the  principle  of 
transparency  required  by  the  International  Criminal 
Court.
transitional 
justice  representatives  from 
The  sessions  were  attended  by  human  rights 
the 
and 
United  Nations  office  in  Tripoli,  representatives  of 
international  human  rights  and  Libyan  civil-society 
organizations,  and  correspondents  from  different 
mass media. In order to provide all guarantees for the 
accused by law, including their right to a defence, the 
Office  of  Law  Administration  asked  a  female  lawyer 
to defend Saif Al-Islam Al-Qadhafi before the Court. 
The Court assigned the accused Abdullah Al-Senussi a 
special lawyer after his lawyer asked to recuse himself.
In the light of the recent security situation in Libya, 
and  since  the  relevant  Court  in  Libya  would  like  to 
pursue  the  case  in  circumstances  conducive  to  a  just 
trial, the Court adjourned its most recent session until 
next November. In that respect, the Parliament and the 
provisional Government are seeking to restore the State 
institutions  that  were  taken  over  by  armed  groups  in 
Tripoli. Indeed, we are trying to impose the rule of law 
and establish conditions conducive to the resumption of 
trials, so that we can protect the rights of the accused 
and complete the trials in accordance with international 
criteria. In the light of all this, we are hopeful that the 
ICC will soon recognize Libyan jurisdiction for trying 
Saif Al-Islam Al-Qadhafi as it did with respect to the 
trial of Abdullah Al-Senussi.
Despite  our  support  for  the  ICC,  we  hope  that  it 
will  be  very  careful  when  considering  cases  of  high-
ranking officials of Member States. To achieve justice, 
it  is  not  enough  to  apply  law  alone.  Law  should  be 
applied cautiously, and the particular political situation 
of a country should be taken into account in order to 
avoid a verdict that will reflect poorly on the court and 
the judges, especially with regard to matters touching 
upon the sovereignty of the State, or that might provoke 
nationalist  sentiment  among  the  people.  We  therefore 
have to avoid making high-ranking officials, especially 
Heads  of  State,  appear  before  the  ICC,  which  could 
happen  only  in  the  absence  of  effective  legal  and 
judicial systems that cannot be reformed.
The Libyan Parliament and provisional Government 
are  determined  to  meet  their  judicial  and  legal 
responsibilities  to  restore  security  and  stability  to 
our  country,  to  fight  impunity  and  achieve  criminal 
justice,  and  to  try  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  and  of 
the  destruction  of  public  and  private  property,  and 
those  who  have  violated  human  rights  in  Libya  since 
15  February  2011.  Regardless  of  those  perpetrators’ 
identities, we are determined to pay reparations to the 
victims,  in  order  to  achieve  national  reconciliation, 
which would ensure the return of displaced persons and 
refugees to their homes.
In conclusion, we are looking for more cooperation 
from  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  help 
Libyan legal authorities prosecute those responsible for 
the crimes committed in Libya, to hand them over to the 
Libyan judicial authorities and to trace the funds that 
were frozen by the relevant resolutions of the Security 
Council. In accordance with resolution 2174 (2014), we 
look forward to taking international measures against 
those who threatened our State institutions and are now 
blocking the advent of democracy in Libya.
Ms.  Hamilton  (United  States  of  America):  We 
appreciate the presentation given by President Song on 
the activities of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
between 1 August 2013 and 31 July 2014, as described 
in  the  ICC’s  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/69/321). We recognize President Song for his service 
to the Court.
Strengthening accountability for those responsible 
for  mass  atrocity  remains  a  priority  for  the  United 
14-59803
19/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
States. As President Obama’s national security strategy 
lays out,
“the  United  States  has  seen  that  the  end  of 
impunity and the promotion of justice are not just 
moral  imperatives;  they  are  stabilizing  forces  in 
international affairs”.
To those ends, the United States is committed to working 
with the international community in a common effort 
not  only  to  help  prevent  atrocities  wherever  possible, 
but also to ensure accountability for the perpetrators of 
the worst crimes in the world.
The framers of the Rome Statute charged the ICC 
with pursuing only those accused of bearing the greatest 
responsibility for the most serious crimes and only when 
States are not willing or able genuinely to investigate or 
prosecute such crimes in the Court’s jurisdiction. Much 
in the same way, the United States supports an approach 
of positive complementarity. Given the importance of 
local  ownership,  the  responsibilities  that  States  have 
for  protecting  their  own  populations  and  the  limited 
capacity  of  any  international  body  in  that  regard, 
we  place  a  premium  on  supporting  countries  in  their 
domestic efforts to establish the rule of law and pursue 
accountability for atrocity crimes. From the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo’s  domestic  efforts  to  begin 
holding  abusive  soldiers  and  armed  group  members 
accountable, to Senegal’s unique work with the African 
Union and the Chadian Government to prosecute those 
responsible  for  alleged  crimes  committed  during  the 
Administration  of  Hissène  Habré,  the  United  States 
continues  to  support  efforts  to  build  fair,  impartial 
and capable national justice systems, as well as hybrid 
tribunals, where appropriate.
At  the  same  time,  more  work  should  be  done 
to  strengthen  accountability  mechanisms  at 
the 
international  level.  The  United  States  has  long  been 
a supporter of such mechanisms, ranging from the ad 
hoc tribunals established by the Security Council in the 
1960s to many of the unique hybrid arrangements that 
emerged  in  the  following  years.  Although  the  United 
States is not a party to the Rome Statute, we recognize 
that the ICC can play an important role in a multilateral 
system  that  aims  to  ensure  accountability  and  end 
impunity.
The United States continues to work with the ICC 
to  identify  practical  ways  in  which  we  can  work  to 
advance our mutual goals on a case-by-case basis and 
consistent with United States policies and laws. In the 
past  year,  after  we  witnessed  the  shocking  atrocities 
that  had  taken  place  in  the  Central  African  Republic, 
the United States expressed its support for the decision 
of the Office of the Prosecutor, made at the request of 
the  interim  Government,  to  open  a  new  investigation 
into the situation there.
Accountability  remains  a  critical  element  of  the 
international  community’s  response  to  the  crisis  in 
the  Central  African  Republic,  and  the  United  States 
supports the coordinated efforts of the United Nations, 
the  interim  Government,  regional  and  international 
partners  and  civil  society  to  begin  to  address  the 
destabilizing  impact  of  impunity  for  these  horrible 
crimes.  The  United  States  also  continued  to  offer 
rewards for information leading to the arrest of several 
of the individuals facing ICC arrest warrants for alleged 
atrocity crimes, including Sylvestre Mudacumura and 
Joseph Kony.
Additionally,  faced  with 
the  continuing  and 
appalling  atrocities  perpetrated  by 
the  Syrian 
Government against its own people, the United States 
and  12  other  members  of  the  Security  Council  voted 
for referring the situation described in a draft Security 
Council  resolution  on  Syria  to  the  ICC’s  Prosecutor. 
Although that effort was blocked, we remain committed 
to pursuing accountability for those crimes.
Finally,  we  would  note  the  importance  for  the 
international  community  of  grappling  with  the  crime 
of  aggression.  The  United  States  continues  to  have 
many concerns about the related amendments adopted 
in  Kampala,  including  the  risk  of  those  amendments 
working  at  cross  purposes  with  efforts  to  prevent  or 
punish  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes. As we have consistently said, the States parties 
were wise to create breathing space by subjecting the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  to  a  decision  to  be  taken  after 
1  January  2017.  The  international  community  should 
use that breathing space to ensure that efforts to ensure 
accountability for atrocity crimes can be consolidated 
and  that  measures  regarding  the  amendments  can  be 
properly  considered.  It  remains  our  view  that  States 
should not move forward with ratifications pending the 
resolution of such issues.
The  international  community  continues  to  face  a 
daunting  challenge  in  upholding  our  commitments  to 
prevent  mass  atrocities  and  to  ensure  that  those  who 
carry out such crimes are held accountable. Although 
the international community has made progress on both 
fronts,  much  work  remains.  None  of  us  can  bear  this 
20/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
burden alone, and our success will continue to depend 
in large part on our ability to work together.
We look forward to continued discussions here at 
the United Nations and to our upcoming participation 
as an observer at the ICC’s Assembly of States Parties 
in New York later in 2014.
Ms.  Millicay  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
this is the last time Judge Sang-Hyun Song, President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  is  before 
the  General  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  thank  him 
for  presenting  the  report  of  the  Court  (A/69/321)  to 
the  Assembly  (see  A/69/PV.34).  I  would  also  like  to 
welcome the report of the Secretary-General (A/69/324) 
containing information on the implementation of article 
3  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations and the International Criminal Court.
The  Rome  Statute  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  are  among  the  most  notable  achievements  of 
multilateral  diplomacy,  and  their  contribution  to  the 
fight against impunity with respect to genocide, crimes 
against humanity and war crimes is clear. Just a little 
over a decade after the adoption of the Rome Statute, 
the Court is a fully functioning permanent international 
criminal tribunal.
Argentina welcomes the fact that the Rome Statute 
has 122 States parties, and that 21 States parties have 
ratified the Kampala amendments.
Other delegations have referred to this matter, and I 
wish to stress that Argentina also believes that defining 
the crime of aggression is one of the achievements of the 
Rome Statute, through the Kampala amendments. My 
country,  like  many  other  States  parties,  is  committed 
to  ratifying  the  amendments  as  soon  as  possible.  In 
spite of the fact that it seems to be difficult to include a 
substantial reference to the crime of aggression in the 
General Assembly draft resolution on the ICC, due to 
the firm opposition of a very few delegations, Argentina 
will  continue  to  work  to  reach  30  ratifications  before 
2017 in order to activate the jurisdiction of the Court, 
as foreseen in Kampala.
I  would  like  to  refer  to  the  relationship  between 
the  Court  and  the  United  Nations.  Throughout  the 
years,  since  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Statute,  the 
need  for  accountability  for  crimes  under  the  Rome 
Statute  has  been  integrated  in  a  tangible  manner  into 
the  considerations  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the 
international community as a whole, and the Security 
Council has taken ownership of it, integrating the Court 
into its deliberations on concrete situations. All of that 
has strengthened the fight against impunity. However, 
challenges still exist, which must be dealt with.
The  relationship  between  the  Organization  and 
the  Court  is  crucial,  although  the  United  Nations 
must  always  respect  the  judicial  independence  of  the 
Court.  We  would  like  to  welcome  the  United  Nations 
guidelines on non-essential contacts.
However,  the  relationship  of  the  United  Nations 
with the Court is also affected by the relationship of the 
Court with the Security Council, as that organ has the 
power to make referrals to the Court and has done so 
in connection with two situations. For years, Argentina 
has  expressed  some  concerns,  both  in  the  General 
Assembly with respect to the Assembly resolution, and 
in the Security Council, of which Argentina is currently 
a non-permanent member.
In  accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute,  the  Court, 
in  a  referral,  exercises  its  jurisdiction  over  nationals 
of  parties  and  non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  No 
pronouncement of the Security Council has the power 
to  amend  the  Statute  in  order  to  grant  immunity  to 
nationals  of  States  non-parties  who  have  committed 
Rome  Statute  crimes  in  a  situation  referred  to  the 
Court.  That  is  to  say,  nothing  in  the  text  of  Security 
Council  resolutions  referring  situations  to  the  Court 
has  the  power  to  alter  either  the  norms  of  the  Statute 
with regard to the jurisdiction of the Court or the rule 
that, in case a decision is to be taken, the Court itself is 
the judge of its own jurisdiction.
I  would  also  like  to  underline  that  the  financial 
cost  of  referrals  made  by  the  Security  Council  to  the 
Court  has  up  until  now  been  defrayed  exclusively  by 
States  parties.  Resolution  68/305,  which  was  recently 
adopted, recognizes that fact. But it is also a fact that 
the Rome Statute provides that the costs of referrals are 
to be defrayed by the United Nations, a provision that is 
also reflected in the Relationship Agreement between 
the United Nations and the Court, which the Assembly 
adopted  by  consensus.  Argentina  and  other  Member 
States have objected to the regrettable practice followed 
by the Security Council regarding the financing of the 
referrals despite a large majority of States supporting 
full compliance with article 115 (b) of the Statute and 
article  13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement.  It  is  not 
acceptable  that  the  Assembly  be  put  in  the  position 
14-59803
21/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
of  not  being  able  to  adopt  a  decision  on  this  issue,  a 
decision for which it has full powers under the Charter.
The  fight  against  impunity  is  an  objective  of  the 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  of  the  United 
Nations. But that goal has to go hand in hand with the 
commitment  to  provide  to  the  Court  the  necessary 
resources to carry out its functions. That commitment 
is  not  alien  to  the  United  Nations,  as  it  was  already 
made with respect to the ad hoc tribunals established 
by the Security Council. It is now necessary to address 
it  with  respect  to  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Failure  to  do  so  could  endanger  the  sustainability  of 
investigations by the Court and have an impact on the 
credibility of the Organization.
In  conclusion,  Argentina  would  like  to  highlight 
that the notable contribution made by the International 
Criminal  Court  to  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  international  concern  is  also 
a  contribution  to  the  objectives  of  this  Organization. 
I  would  like  to  recall  —  as  set  out  in  the  Kampala 
Declaration  —  the  noble  mission  and  the  role  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral  system 
that  aims  to  end  impunity,  establish  the  rule  of  law, 
promote  and  encourage  respect  for  human  rights 
and  achieve  sustainable  peace,  in  accordance  with 
international  law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Finally,  I  would 
like  to  reiterate  Argentina’s  firm  commitment  to  the 
International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Ruiz  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like to thank Judge Song, President of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC), for presenting the report of the 
Court  (A/69/321)  (see  A/69/PV.34).  I  also  take  this 
opportunity to welcome and congratulate Ambassador 
Tiina  Intelmann  for  her  work  and  commitment  over 
the  past  three  years  as  the  President  of  the  Assembly 
of  States  Parties  of  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Likewise, I would also like to congratulate and welcome 
the  Minister  of  Justice  of  Senegal,  Sidiki  Kaba,  as 
President of the Assembly for the next triennium. I am 
certain  that  under  his  leadership  we  will  continue  to 
progress in attaining the common goals.
Colombia  has  had  an  important  and  historic 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Court.  That  deep 
commitment  has  manifested  itself  in  actions  such  as 
the  ratification  of  the  Agreement  on  Privileges  and 
Immunities of the Court, the signing of the agreement 
between the Republic of Colombia and the International 
Criminal  Court  on  the  enforcement  of  sentences 
imposed  by  the  International  Criminal  Court  —  the 
first  country  in  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
region  to  do  so  —  and  the  voluntary  contribution  to 
the Trust Fund for Victims. Currently, Colombia, along 
with Tunisia, is facilitating discussions on victims and 
affected communities, reparations and the Trust Fund 
for  Victims  in  the  framework  of  The  Hague  Working 
Group of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties.
Also, when the Assembly of States Parties meets in 
this city in December, Colombia will join the Bureau 
of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  for  the  first  time. 
My country sees membership in the Bureau as a great 
opportunity  to  continue  supporting  the  work  of  the 
Court and to continue to cultivate values shared by the 
States parties and contained in the Rome Statute.
I would also like to emphasize the value of the Rome 
Statute, not only as an international instrument that led 
to the establishment of the International Criminal Court, 
but as a valuable tool for the international community 
to tackle particularly grave situations. Therefore, I take 
this opportunity to invite States that have not yet done 
so to become parties to the Statute and to ratify it.
My  country  remains  committed  to  defending 
both the Statute and the Court, as well as the cause of 
international criminal justice. That is why we believe 
that  the  cooperation  of  States  is  fundamental  for  the 
Court  to  be  able  to  carry  out  its  work  appropriately, 
always  within  the  framework  outlined  in  the  Statute, 
which  is  the  guide  for  any  Court  activity  and  its 
interaction with States. All activities within the scope of 
the Statute must result from its rigorous interpretation.
While  it  is  true  that  the  International  Criminal 
Court and the United Nations system are independent 
and  have  different  mandates,  they  share  common 
values  and  objectives,  such  as  peace  and  justice.  In 
that regard, Colombia supports the initiatives aimed at 
uniting efforts and establishing synergies to strengthen 
cooperation  between  those  organizations  so  as  to 
identify  common  interests,  challenges  and  different 
ways of achieving those objectives.
I take this opportunity to highlight the importance 
of the principle of complementarity as the backbone of 
the international criminal justice system enshrined in 
the Rome Statute. Colombia supports the International 
Criminal Court in the light of that principle, based on 
respect for the jurisdictional sovereignty of States and 
on confidence that they will do their work, in addition 
to reasons of efficiency, since State authorities on the 
22/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
ground  have  better  access  to  evidence  and  witnesses, 
and they know at first hand the historical context and 
the needs of victims for justice, truth, reparations and 
guarantees of non-recurrence.
In its national legislation, the Colombian State has 
classified crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity 
and war crimes. It has strengthened national capacities 
to  investigate  and  prosecute  such  conduct  and  is 
absolutely committed and ready to take the necessary 
actions for investigation and prosecution.
Finally,  I  want  to  underscore  the  importance  of 
defining  the  concept  of  justice  within  this  context, 
and  its  relationship  with  peace.  We  must  work  for  a 
concept  of  justice  that  can  provide  a  fitting  response 
to complex situations that arise from armed conflicts, 
as well as to the context that gave rise to them. If we 
do  not  recognize  the  causes  of  problems  we  will  be 
doomed to relive them, and that is why we must ensure 
the  rights  of  victims  to  truth,  justice,  reparations  and 
non-recurrence. Those rights must be the priority in any 
process of seeking justice and in any judicial forum. It 
must always be in a context of peace.
Mr.  Sylla  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
start,  I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Sang-Нyun  Song, 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), for 
presenting the report of the Court (see A/69/321) (see 
A/69/PV.34). We welcome this opportunity to consider 
that document, which provides essential information on 
the proceedings and investigations before the Court and 
on  the  nature  of  the  support  that  the  United  Nations 
provides to the Court, particularly through its offices 
and  peacekeeping  missions  deployed  throughout  the 
world.
We  must  acknowledge  that  dynamic  interaction 
among  the  Court,  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  can  contribute 
to  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  suppressing 
serious  crimes  against  humanity.  With  the  desired 
harmony, those three bodies should contribute, through 
full  complementarity,  to  establishing  international 
peace  and  justice,  because  they  often  face  the  same 
challenges.
In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  supports 
the 
recommendation  made  during  the  Security  Council 
open debate held on 17 October 2012 (see S/PV.6849) 
regarding the establishment of a formal framework for 
exchange between the Security Council and the Office 
of the Prosecutor on a regular basis, independently of 
the  cases  submitted  by  the  Council.  That  interaction 
could focus on specific situations or on thematic issues.
We  also  support  the  idea  of  annual  invitations  to 
the Court’s President and the Prosecutor to report to the 
Council  and  to  have  exchanges  on  issues  of  common 
interest  and  on  ways  to  strengthen  their  mutual 
cooperation. My delegation also encourages the Office 
of  Legal  Affairs  —  the  focal  point  for  cooperation 
between the Court and the United Nations system — to 
fully exercise its role of coordinating the actions of the 
different United Nations bodies.
The  increase  in  the  number  of  cases  submitted 
to  the  Court,  often  without  resources  available,  risks 
having  a  negative  impact  on  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Court’s  work.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  strengthen 
United  Nations  financial  support  in  order  to  enable 
the Court to appropriately discharge its mission in the 
best conditions. In that context, the General Assembly 
should  assume  responsibility  for  funding  the  costs 
related  to  investigations  and  prosecutions  linked  to 
situations that the Security Council refers to the Court. 
That is in accordance with article 115 (b) of the Rome 
Statute,  which  includes  among  sources  for  covering 
the  expenses  of  the  Court  funds  provided  by  the 
United Nations, subject to the approval of the General 
Assembly,  in  particular  in  relation  to  the  expenses 
incurred due to referrals by the Security Council. My 
delegation  therefore  regrets  that  resolution  68/305, 
entitled “Report of the International Criminal Court”, 
which the Assembly adopted on 9 September 2014, did 
not refer to that essential issue.
Moreover,  it  is  also  important  to  keep  in  mind 
the  principle  of  complementarity,  whereby  the  Court 
should  consider  cases  only  if  a  State  cannot,  or  is 
unwilling  to,  assume  its  primary  responsibility  to 
prosecute the perpetrators of crimes punishable under 
the  Rome  Statute.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Nations 
should  continue  to  provide  technical  assistance  to 
countries  that  need  it,  including  to  strengthen  their 
national  capacities  in  the  institutional  and  legislative 
areas  through  training  judicial,  police  and  security 
service personnel.
While  the  international  community  succeeded  in 
establishing a permanent International Criminal Court, 
the  fact  remains  that  it  is  still  essential  to  work  for 
its universality by encouraging those States that have 
not yet done so to sign or ratify the Rome Statute. In 
the  same  vein,  cooperation  with  the  Court  by  States 
parties  and  non-parties,  civil  society  and  subregional 
14-59803
23/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
and  regional  organizations  is  equally  essential  for 
it  to  exercise  its  powers,  in  particular  when  it  comes 
to  conducting  investigations,  handling  evidence  and 
implementing international arrest warrants.
Moreover, the Security Council, as the guarantor of 
international peace and security, must act responsibly 
and  without  any  politicization  when  considering 
situations  involving  mass  crimes  so  as  to  avoid 
suspicious selectivity and double standards in making 
referrals  to  the  International  Criminal  Court.  That 
precipitates unhelpful tensions, which may hinder the 
efficiency of the Court. The fight against impunity must 
remain our common struggle, founded on compliance 
with  the  spirit  and  the  letter  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Rome Statute.
In conclusion, I would like to invite all stakeholders 
to  seize  the  opportunity  provided  by  the  thirteenth 
session of the Assembly of States Parties, to be held in 
December 2014, to elect as His Excellency Mr. Sidiki 
Kaba,  Minister  of  Justice  of  Senegal,  as  head  of  the 
Assembly,  replacing  Ms.  Tiina  Intelmann,  whose 
dedication  and  determination  we  commend.  We 
therefore call on all stakeholders to take this opportunity 
to  review,  with  clarity  and  responsibility,  the  many 
challenges still facing the International Criminal Court, 
which call on us to maintain our common commitment 
to bringing about a world of peace and justice.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): First of all, I would like to thank the President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) for the report 
on the work of the Court for the period from 1 August 
2013 to 31 July 2014 (see A/69/321).
The  Russian  Federation 
is  firmly  committed 
to  combating  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
under  international  law.  Our  country  was  among 
those  responsible  for  the  inception  of  the  Nuremberg 
and  Tokyo  Tribunals,  and  it  supported  the  idea  of 
establishing an international criminal court as the first 
permanent body for international criminal justice.
Russia is keen to continue its cooperation with the 
ICC. Dialogue and cooperation between the Court and 
the  United  Nations  should  be  carried  out  within  the 
framework defined by the Charter, the relevant Security 
Council  resolutions  and  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between the United Nations and the ICC.
The ability of the ICC to impartially and effectively 
discharge its functions with respect to the cases before 
it  is  one  of  the  decisive  factors  that  States  take  into 
account when deciding whether to accede to the Rome 
Statute. It is also important how the Court’s statutory 
documents  evolve.  In  that  connection,  we  continue 
be  concerned  that  the  crime  of  aggression  remains 
in  the  Court’s  Statute.  We  believe  that  the  Kampala 
compromise fails to fully take into account the Charter 
prerogatives  of  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  it 
would be extremely undesirable for a situation to arise 
whereby the Court would have jurisdiction over a crime 
of aggression in the absence of a relevant determination 
by the Security Council.
We  call  on  the  Court  to  carefully  address  the 
concerns that have arisen among States of the African 
Union  regarding  certain  aspects  of  its  work  and  to 
make the necessary efforts to find mutually acceptable 
solutions.  In  that  regard,  we  note  the  particular 
importance  of  the  effective  application  in  practice  of 
the  principle  of  complementarity,  as  enshrined  in  the 
Rome Statute.
On a number of matters, the ICC is forced to work 
in  conflict  or  post-conflict  situations.  In  such  cases, 
it  is  particularly  important  to  achieve  a  harmonious 
combination of measures to restore peace and steps to 
bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  committed 
during the conflict. For all the importance of the Court’s 
independent and effective performance of its functions 
in the field of criminal justice, its activities must take 
into  due  account  broader  efforts  to  resolve  crises.  It 
is  just  as  important  for  the  ICC  to  be  able  to  take  an 
equally flexible and serious approach to investigating 
possible  crimes  by  all  parties  to  an  armed  conflict, 
without any exception. It is this very approach that will 
lead to the goals of peace and justice being achieved.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): I join others in 
thanking  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his statement 
(see  A/69/PV.34)  and  for  presenting  the  tenth  report 
of  the  Court  (see  A/69/321)  to  the  General  Assembly. 
Brazil commends the judges of the ICC for their role in 
fighting impunity and contributing to the rule of law.
Brazil remains steadfast in its commitment to the 
Rome  Statute  system  and  to  the  cause  of  justice  that 
motivated its creation. As a tool for ensuring that those 
accused before it are brought to justice, with fairness 
and  full  respect  for  their  human  rights,  the  Court’s 
legitimacy  stands  out  as  one  of  the  most  important 
assets  to  be  preserved.  And  the  foundations  of  the 
legitimacy of the Rome Statute system lie not only in 
24/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
the independence of the ICC, but also in the universality 
of its reach.
I  am  pleased  to  recall  that  all  South  American 
countries  are  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  Two  thirds 
of  the  United  Nations  membership  have  ratified  it, 
but  it  still  not  universal.  We  regret  the  lack  of  new 
ratifications  reported  this  year  and  believe  that  it 
demonstrates the need to redouble our efforts to ensure 
adherence  by  all  United  Nations  Members.  After  all, 
enhancing the Rome Statute’s universality is a means 
of promoting peace through justice and of addressing a 
key institutional dimension of the rule of law, to which 
all Members should commit.
In  that  context,  allow  me  to  underscore  the 
importance we attach to the Review Conference of the 
Rome Statute, which took place in Kampala in 2010, in 
which Brazil was an active participant. The activation 
of  the  Kampala  amendments  in  2017  will  represent  a 
major  contribution  to  completing  the  international 
criminal justice system.
Brazil welcomes the fact that the ICC has delivered 
three verdicts and that, while there are appeals pending 
on two of them, one of the judgements recently became 
final.  This  is  an  important  development,  since  it 
materializes  our  common  goal  of  fighting  impunity. 
We  also  note  that  the  Court’s  workload  is  increasing, 
including by territorial State referrals.
Considering  that  this  month  marks  the  tenth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC, 
allow me to recall my delegation’s concern about issues 
of  a  structural  nature,  which  go  to  the  core  of  the 
relationship between the Court and the United Nations, 
in particular the General Assembly.
At  the  Security  Council  open  debate  on  working 
methods  organized  by 
the  Council’s  Argentine 
presidency  earlier  this  month  (see  S/PV.7285),  Brazil 
voiced  its  conviction  that  the  pursuit  of  international 
justice  and  the  achievement  of  lasting  peace  and 
security  were  mutually  reinforcing  objectives.  Both 
the ICC and the Council have pivotal, albeit different, 
roles  in  pursuing  those  objectives  and  striking  the 
right balance among peace and justice, accountability 
and  reconciliation.  That  is  valid  for  both  referrals 
and  deferrals  of  situations,  where  the  same  rules  and 
principles should apply equally and to all, thus avoiding 
double standards and selectivity.
the 
ICC  and 
The  cooperation  between 
the 
United  Nations  should  also  move  beyond  rhetoric 
and  find  concrete  implementation  in  the  funding  of 
Security  Council  referrals.  We  reiterate  our  call  for 
the  implementation  of  article  13,  paragraph  2,  of  the 
Relationship Agreement and article 115 (b) of the Rome 
Statute,  which  provide  clear  guidance  in  the  sense 
that such costs should be met by United Nations funds 
and  should  not  fall  on  the  parties  to  the  Statute.  The 
incipient practice of the Security Council to try to block 
the possibility that the United Nations should bear those 
costs not only is in contrast with those internationally 
agreed  dispositions,  it  also  usurps  the  Assembly’s 
exclusive responsibility for considering and approving 
the budget of the Organization, as laid out in Article 17 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
the  decision  of  the  Bureau  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  to  endorse  Africa’s  consensus  candidature  of 
the  Minister  of  Justice  of  Senegal,  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba, 
for the presidency of the Assembly of States Parties as 
from the thirteenth Assembly. Coming from the region 
with the largest number of States parties to the Rome 
Statute,  Mr.  Kaba  is  particularly  well  placed  to  lead 
our  efforts  to  tackle  the  increasing  challenges  facing 
the  Statute’s  system.  Brazil  welcomes  the  priorities 
he has set for his tenure and the fact that they include 
cooperation, complementarity, universality and healing 
the relationship between the Court and his own region.
The  Assembly  of  States  Parties  needs  to  engage 
constructively with African States. We need to exercise 
diplomatic wisdom in order to preserve the instruments 
of  international  criminal  justice  that  we  have  been 
building up, one the one hand, and on the other hand, 
to  be  sensitive  to  requests  that  are  legally  sound  and 
reflect wide political support. We must be able to hear 
without  prejudice  the  concerns  expressed  by  African 
States.  We  are  convinced  that  there  is  institutional 
space for defusing polarization, upholding respect for 
international  law  and  the  rule  of  law  and  addressing 
questions raised by African Union members.
justice 
The  quest  for  peace  and 
is  always 
challenging, and it is a key common purpose of both the 
United Nations and the ICC. Our efforts in that regard 
must  be  informed  by  the  shared  values  that  bring  the 
General  Assembly  together  and  have  made  the  first 
permanent,  treaty-based  International  Criminal  Court 
a reality. Brazil stands ready to continue to contribute 
to strengthening both objectives.
14-59803
25/27
A/69/PV.35 
31/10/2014
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Costa  Rica  is  grateful  for  the  detailed  and 
accurate  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  (see  A/69/321)  presented  by  Judge  Song  (see 
A/69/PV.34),  whose  leadership  and  vision  during  his 
presidency of the Court we acknowledge and thank him 
for.
some  States  have  attempted  to  justify  their  lack  of 
cooperation by alleging that the Court’s decisions have 
been  politicized,  such  arguments  are  not  grounded  in 
reality.  The  cases  that  have  been  adjudicated  before 
the ICC have shown that its proceedings are guided by 
absolute respect for the principles of the presumption of 
innocence, legality and due process.
My  delegation  would  first  like  to  emphasize  its 
absolute  support  for  the  Court,  in  the  full  conviction 
that  it  is  one  of  multilateralism’s  most  important 
achievements.  The  ICC  was  born  of  the  international 
community’s  desire  to  end  impunity  for  the  most 
serious  crimes  against  humanity  and  bring  justice  to 
their  victims.  Its  essence  and  main  strength  lie  in  its 
jurisdiction erga omnes, a basic principle for being able 
to speak of justice. And as history has shown, there can 
be no lasting peace without justice.
Because  that  desire  is  universal,  there  can  be  no 
State  where  there  is  room  for  impunity.  That  is  why 
Costa  Rica  deplores  the  fact  that,  during  the  period 
covered  by  the  report,  the  number  of  States  parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  did  not  increase.  However,  we 
look forward to results from the processes under way 
in  several  States  with  a  view  to  ratifying  the  Rome 
Statute. Some of those processes are in Latin America 
and the Caribbean, a region that has strongly supported 
the  Court  since  its  creation.  Costa  Rica  reaffirms  the 
importance  of  continuing  to  promote  the  Statute’s 
universality  and  rejects  any  action  that  attempts  to 
undermine it.
I  would  now  like  to  address  specific  aspects  of 
particular interest to my delegation.
First,  as  President  Song  said  yesterday  in  his 
presentation,  the  ICC  is  a  court  of  last  resort.  It  was 
not  created  as  a  substitute  for  domestic  courts.  The 
responsibility for investigating and prosecuting crimes 
committed under their jurisdiction lies primarily with 
the justice systems of individual States. For that reason, 
complementarity is an essential element in the gears of 
international criminal justice. However, it is vital that 
it be made clear that when the Court has jurisdiction, 
as established by the Rome Statute, States parties must 
comply  with  their  irrevocable  obligations  under  the 
Statute.  Any  failure  to  comply  is  particularly  serious 
when  manifested  in  a  refusal  to  provide  access  to 
evidence or execute active arrest warrants.
As  Judge  Song  informed  us,  13  warrants  are 
still  outstanding,  some  of  them  since  2005.  While 
The next point I would like to draw the Assembly’s 
attention  to  is  the  Court’s  financial  situation  and  the 
possibility that its important tasks could be jeopardized 
by budgetary constraints. As the report shows, the work 
of the Court increased substantially during the period, 
and will continue to do so in future. But while its tasks 
are  growing,  its  budget  has  fallen  in  real  terms,  and 
some major States parties have insisted on zero-growth 
policies that do not take adequate account of the Court’s 
internal  realities  and  external  challenges.  We  hope 
we  will  be  able  to  analyse  and  solve  this  issue  at  the 
next  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  in  an  atmosphere  of 
calm, realism, goodwill and by considering two basic 
premises. The first is the continued improvement of the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Court’s work, and the 
second is the commitment to investing in international 
justice in the belief that its benefits for peace, harmony 
and human dignity far outweigh its costs.
Another issue my delegation would like to address 
is  the  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations, based on the Relationship Agreement between 
the  two  bodies  signed  on  14  October  2004.  That 
collaboration  has  developed  well  and  has  resulted  in 
tangible  successes  for  both  organizations.  However, 
Costa  Rica  reiterates  once  again  the  need  to  address 
the  issue  of  the  financing  of  referrals  to  the  Court 
by  the  United  Nations.  Since  under  the  Charter  the 
Security  Council  is  responsible  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  when  the  Court 
takes on referrals it is helping the Council to fulfil its 
mandate.  Article  13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement, 
which  provides  for  financial  support  by  the  United 
Nations,  should  apply  in  such  cases  of  cooperation. 
The  Agreement  is  clear  that  contributions  are  to  be 
implemented  pursuant  to  decisions  of  the  General 
Assembly.
In one of its last sections, section IV B, the report 
refers  to  amendments  to  the  rules  of  procedure  and 
evidence that were approved during the last Assembly 
of  States  Parties.  My  country  joined  the  consensus 
on  the  adoption  of  those  amendments  with  a  view  to 
facilitating the participation by a number of defendants 
26/27 
14-59803
31/10/2014 
A/69/PV.35
in trials. However, in order for such flexibility not to 
be misinterpreted as a lack of commitment to the core 
principles of the Rome Statute, my delegation wishes to 
state that it will not support any proposed amendment 
that  would  prevent  the  Court  from  fulfilling  its 
objective  of  ending  impunity  for  heinous  crimes  and 
ensuring  that  every  individual,  without  exception,  is 
held  accountable  for  committing  such  crimes.  To  do 
otherwise would be to irreparably undermine the Court 
and  leave  the  victims,  who  should  be  our  principal 
concern, completely defenceless.
It is precisely in assisting victims that the impact of 
the Court is most evident. The 8,040 victims represented 
in six cases and the 110,000 victims, their families and 
communities who have benefited through programmes 
of physical and psychological support — that is proof 
of  the  far-reaching  role  played  by  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Costa  Rica  will  have  the  honour  to  be  among 
the  countries  representing  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean at the next session of the Assembly of States 
Parties, in December. I want to assure the Court that it 
can count on our wholehearted support in this common 
struggle for a world in which accountability, justice and 
peace prevail.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
14-59803
27/27
