United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
6th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 24 September 2014, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.6
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 108
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/69/1)
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 19 September 2014, 
the General Assembly will hear a presentation by the 
Secretary-General of his annual report on the work of 
the  Organization,  under  agenda  item  108.  I  give  the 
floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General:  It  is  a  great  honour  to 
welcome everyone to this renovated General Assembly 
Hall. This great Hall is home to “We the peoples”. It has 
been restored, renewed and reinvented for the twenty-
first century. I thank all present for making it possible. 
The Capital Master Plan was not an easy project. But 
the  Member  States  embraced  the  vision.  They  made 
the  investment.  Now  we  see  the  wonderful  results:  a 
state-of-the-art space in which we shall work together 
to improve the state of the world.
We  wanted  to  have  a  grand  opening  ceremony. 
But because of frugality and time we decided to have 
a virtual grand opening ceremony. In the name of all 
peoples  and  all  nations,  I  am  now  proud  to  officially 
declare this General Assembly Hall open for business. 
Members saved a lot of money by having this virtual 
opening  ceremony.  I  thank  them  very  much  for  their 
understanding.
Every year at this time, hope fills this Hall — the 
hope  embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  hopes  of  leaders  who  speak  from  this  rostrum, 
the  hopes  of  people  across  the  world  who  hear  those 
promises. This year, the horizon of hope has darkened. 
Our hearts have been made very heavy by unspeakable 
acts and the deaths of innocents. Cold War ghosts have 
returned to haunt our times. We have seen so much of 
the Arab Spring go violently wrong.
Not  since  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War  have 
there  been  so  many  refugees,  displaced  people  and 
asylum  seekers.  Never  before  has  the  United  Nations 
been  asked  to  reach  so  many  people  with  emergency 
food  assistance  and  other 
life-saving  supplies. 
Diplomacy  is  on  the  defensive,  undermined  by  those 
who believe in violence. Diversity is under assault by 
extremists  who  insist  that  their  way  is  the  only  way. 
Disarmament is viewed as a distant dream, sabotaged 
by profiteers of perpetual warfare.
It  may  seem  as  if  the  world  is  falling  apart,  as 
crises  pile  up  and  diseases  spread.  But  leadership  is 
precisely about finding the seeds of hope and nurturing 
them  into  something  bigger.  That  is  our  duty.  That 
is  my  call  on  members  today.  It  has  been  a  terrible 
year for the principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  From  barrel  bombs  to  beheadings, 
from  the  deliberate  starvation  of  civilians  to  assaults 
on hospitals, United Nations shelters and aid convoys, 
human rights and the rule of law are under attack.
(spoke in French)
After the latest tragedy in Gaza, Palestinians and 
Israelis  seem  more  polarized  than  ever.  If  we  do  not 
save  the  two-State  solution,  we  will  be  left  in  a  state 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54711 (E)
*1454711*
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
of  permanent  hostilities.  The  situation  in  and  around 
Ukraine remains unstable. In South Sudan, the struggle 
for political power has killed thousands of people and 
exposed millions to the threat of famine. The Central 
African  Republic  is  fractured  and  traumatized.  Mali 
and  the  Sahel  continue  to  suffer  from  insurgency, 
terrorism,  the  drug  trade  and  organized  crime.  In 
Somalia,  a  coalition  of  African  States  confronts  the 
terrorist group Al-Shabaab. In Nigeria, Boko Haram’s 
murderous  onslaught  gained  strength,  with  shocking 
consequences for women and girls.
(spoke in English)
In Iraq and Syria, we see new depths of barbarity 
with each passing day and devastating spillover effects 
across  the  region.  As  Muslim  leaders  around  the 
world  have  repeatedly  said,  there  is  nothing  Islamic 
about  the  terrorist  organizations  wreaking  havoc  in 
the  region.  Those  extremist  groups  are  a  clear  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security  that  requires  a 
multifaceted international response. We need decisive 
action to stop atrocity crimes and frank discussions on 
what  created  the  threat  in  the  first  place.  The  people 
of the region have been forced to walk on the broken 
shards of bad governance and bad decisions that fail to 
respect international law and basic human rights.
Across  the  world,  the  fragility  of  States  and 
institutions has never been more apparent. Some have 
been hollowed out by corruption; others have pursued 
policies  of  exclusion  that  drive  the  victims  towards 
anger,  despair  and  violence.  States  must  uphold  their 
responsibility  to  govern  —  and  govern  for  all  their 
people.
Even  where  there  is  no  overt  warfare,  violence 
still mars lives. Men prey on women across the globe, 
from  battlefields  to  streets,  from  public  spaces  to 
the  privacy  of  the  home.  Migrants  face  increasingly 
perilous  journeys,  and  closed  doors  upon  arrival.  In 
many countries seen as models of integration, divisive 
politics are on the rise. People are very good at seeing 
prejudice in others, but less so in themselves. The trends 
that bring people together — instant communications, 
free trade and ease of travel — are also being exploited 
by  forces  that  keep  them  apart.  The  world’s  “fasten 
seat belt” light is illuminated. Turbulence is testing the 
multilateral  system,  national  institutions  and  people’s 
lives.
Human  rights  provide  one  touchstone  for  our 
response. The Rights Up Front initiative aims to place 
that 
human  rights  at  the  centre  of  our  thinking  and  our 
efforts  in  the  field.  The  protection  of  nearly  100,000 
people at United Nations bases throughout South Sudan 
has  been  an  early  milestone  of  that  new  approach. 
The  international  community  needs  to  be  similarly 
sensitized  to  the  value  of  human  rights  violations  as 
an  early-warning  mechanism.  I  urge  Member  States 
to  fulfil  their  responsibilities  to  their  populations. 
States  also  need  to  be  open  to  discussing  their  own 
vulnerabilities.  Let  us  recall 
the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights not only proclaims a set 
of  freedoms;  it  also  warns  that  people  will  not  stand 
idle if they are not protected. We need to do far more to 
anticipate problems and reach early political consensus.
To better meet the challenges before us, I have called 
for a review of the United Nations peace operations and 
will  appoint  a  high-level  review  panel  in  the  coming 
weeks.  The  unity  of  the  Security  Council  is  crucial. 
When the Security Council acts as one, we see results, 
such  as  the  elimination  of  Syria’s  chemical  weapons 
programme,  agreement  on  a  peacekeeping  operation 
for the Central African Republic, timely support for the 
peace framework in the Great Lakes region of Africa. 
By contrast, continued disunity over Syria has resulted 
in grave human suffering and loss of credibility for the 
Council and our Organization. The General Assembly 
must also uphold its responsibilities and play its rightful 
role.
(spoke in French)
We  must  not  let  the  smoke  from  today’s  fires 
blind  us  to  longer-term  challenges  and  opportunities. 
Hope may be hard to discern, but it is there. In clinics, 
classrooms and other places far from the spotlight, the 
development  agenda  is  making  remarkable  progress. 
Poverty, child mortality and maternal deaths have been 
cut in half. More remains to be done, but those and other 
gains show the power of the Millennium Development 
Goals and what we can do when we work together.
Today,  an  inspiring  global  conversation  is  taking 
place  on  an  agenda  for  the  next  15  years.  Earlier  this 
month, small island developing States added their voices 
with the adoption of the Samoa Pathway, a far-reaching 
plan  for  addressing  their  unique  vulnerabilities.  Two 
days ago, in this Hall, we heard the appeals of the world’s 
indigenous peoples for an end to marginalization (see 
A/69/PV.4).  That  same  day,  world  leaders  reaffirmed 
the 
the 
groundbreaking  consensus  of  the  Cairo  International 
Conference on Population and Development.
importance  of  continuing 
to 
implement 
2/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
The  conversation  for  the  future  that  we  want  is 
one of the most inclusive initiatives in United Nations 
history.  More  than  5  million  people  have  now  voted 
in  the  “My  World”  survey.  I  hope  millions  more  will 
go  on  line  to  give  their  opinion.  What  is  emerging 
from our dialogue is a remarkable project, a universal 
agenda  that  applies  to  all  countries,  a  witness  to  the 
determination  not  to  reduce  but  to  eradicate  extreme 
poverty and hunger, and to allow all countries and all 
communities to set out on the path of truly sustainable 
development.
The General Assembly’s Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals has just placed before 
us  a  proposed  set  of  sustainable  development  goals 
that will allow us to complete the unfinished business 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  overcome 
inequalities, protect the planet and build the future we 
want.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  at  members’  request,  I 
will provide a synthesis report that will set the stage as 
Member States begin their negotiations.
(spoke in English)
Transformation is our goal. I can think of no better 
place  to  start  than  with  opening  doors  and  shattering 
ceilings for women and girls. Stereotypes continue to 
be deeply entrenched. Look at any crisis, from poverty 
to disaster, from disease to illiteracy, and you will see 
women and girls suffering the most. We cannot fulfil 
100 per cent of the world’s potential by excluding 50 per 
cent of the world’s people.
Climate  action  is  integral  to  all  our  hopes.  Three 
days  ago,  in  the  streets  of  our  host  city,  New  York,  I 
joined  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  in  marching 
for  a  cleaner,  greener  future.  They  sent  a  powerful 
message  to  the  leaders  of  their  impatience,  but 
also  of  opportunity.  Yesterday’s  Climate  Summit 
was  a  landmark  event.  We  saw  a  great  coming 
together  of  countries,  capitals,  CEOs  and  citizens. 
Multistakeholder coalitions took unprecedented action 
to  reduce  emissions,  build  resilience  and  finance  the 
transformation of our economies and societies. We must 
convert  this  momentum  into  a  meaningful,  universal 
climate agreement in Lima this December and in Paris 
next year. As one of the banners in the march said, we 
have a duty to do what must be done.
Funding  is  crucial  for  the  credibility  of  climate 
and  post-2015  development  efforts.  Now  is  the  time 
to  more  properly  match  global  wealth  with  global 
need.  All  resources  —  public  and  private,  domestic 
and international — need to be tapped. When budgets 
are cut to the bone, people bleed. When resources are 
devoted  to  ever  more  sophisticated  arms  instead  of 
ever-greater  human  potential,  we  are  all  less  secure. 
Leadership is also about getting our priorities straight, 
our  policies  right  and  our  investments  working  for 
people. The next 15 months will be a defining period 
for global prosperity and stability. I urge all present to 
keep their ambitions high.
The  outbreak  of  Ebola  in  West  Africa  is  an 
unprecedented  crisis.  That  is  why  I  have  established 
an  unprecedented  health  operation  —  the  United 
Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response 
(UNMEER)  —  to  mobilize  all  the  resources  needed 
to  reinforce  work  being  done  by  the  countries  and 
communities  affected.  The  Mission  combines  the 
expertise  of  the  World  Health  Organization  with  the 
logistical capacities of the United Nations. UNMEER 
personnel arrived in Ghana two days ago to establish 
the Mission’s headquarters.
The  international  community  is  rallying  to  assist 
local health workers. Now we need a twentyfold surge in 
care, tracking, transport and equipment. Food security 
is a growing concern, as food prices have gone up and 
food systems are in danger of breaking down. We must 
also  fight  the  virus  of  fear  and  misinformation.  Bans 
on travel or transport will not keep Ebola from getting 
out but will keep medical personnel and supplies from 
getting in. We need to isolate people affected by Ebola, 
but  not  the  nations  struggling  to  cope  with  it.  With 
leadership  and  solidarity,  we  can  help  the  people  of 
Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone bring the outbreak to 
an end and regain the path to a better future.
The world recently marked the 100th anniversary 
of the outbreak of the First World War. Like so many 
conflicts, that war started less from grand design than 
from small problems badly handled. After the Second 
World  War,  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations  was 
a  feat  of  global  resolve.  The  post-war  planners  were 
driven  not  only  by  the  idea  of  “never  again”  but  by 
a  vision  of  what  the  world  could  be  if  we  “unite  our 
strength”.  Today  we  face  a  profusion  of  mounting 
challenges.  People  are  crying  out  for  protection  from 
greed and inequality. The United Nations must answer 
that call.
We  are  a  century  removed  from  the  First  World 
War and have 70 years of experience with the United 
Nations, yt the world is still not as peaceful as it could 
and  should  be.  Today  we  face  far  more  man-made 
14-54711
3/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
crises  than  natural  calamities.  We  may  not  control 
Mother Nature, but who else but us is responsible for 
securing peace and justice in our world? War, poverty, 
ignorance — crises caused by people can be stopped by 
people. I do not think we can yet feel comfortable about 
the  world  our  generation  is  leaving  to  our  children. 
Still,  I  have  hope.  I  draw  it  from  our  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, our enduring guide in times of dramatic 
challenge and change. I am continually inspired by the 
staff,  peacekeepers,  humanitarian  workers,  human 
rights  defenders  and  others  who  bring  our  document, 
this Charter, to life.
Just  as  we  have  renovated  this  great  Hall  for  a 
new  age,  I  look  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
to rebuild leadership and restore unity of purpose. We 
can tackle any challenge — and we will, as the United 
Nations. I thank them for their leadership.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
Agenda item 8
General debate
The President: I will now deliver my statement in 
my capacity as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session.
I  am  honoured  and  humbled  by  the  trust  and 
confidence Member States have bestowed on me and my 
country, Uganda, in electing me to serve as President 
of the General Assembly during its sixty-ninth session. 
My  thanks  go  to  my  President,  who  nominated  me, 
my  continent,  which  endorsed  me,  and  the  General 
Assembly, which elected me by acclamation.
This session and the coming year will be momentous. 
We will commemorate the seventieth anniversary of the 
United  Nations.  We  will  also  commemorate  20  years 
since the ground-breaking Fourth World Conference on 
Women, reach the target date for the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and formulate 
and adopt the post-2015 development agenda.
When  the  United  Nations  was  founded  nearly 
69  years  ago,  it  was  an  untested  vision  that  was 
preoccupied  with  efforts  to  heal  a  world  that  had 
been  ravaged  by  the  scourge  of  war.  It  included  only 
51 countries, which is a tiny fraction of the 193 Member 
States that make up its membership today. It is therefore 
fitting  that  the  Charter  stresses  the  determination  by 
the peoples of the United Nations to reaffirm their faith 
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth 
of the human person and in the equal rights of men and 
women and of nations large and small, and to promote 
social  progress  and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger 
freedom. We have collectively achieved a lot as Member 
States over the past seven decades in maintaining peace 
and  security,  promoting  human  rights  and  fostering 
development, but a lot more remains to be done.
The  world  today  is  vastly  different  from  what 
it  was  in  1945,  but  one  thing  remains  constant:  the 
need  to  work  together  to  harness  opportunities  for 
prosperity  and  find  solutions  to  the  global  challenges 
confronting  humanity.  We  need  to  strengthen  further 
this  cooperation  among  Member  States  and  promote 
peace, tolerance and compromise.
today  at  a 
We  are  gathered  here 
time  of 
unprecedented  historic  opportunity  to  improve  the 
livelihoods  of  all  people  and  set  the  world  on  a  path 
towards  achieving  sustainable  development.  That 
development  must  be  achieved  in  both  the  economic 
and  the  social  and  environmental  dimensions  of  our 
world. I am reminded of the wise saying of Mahatma 
Gandhi,  who  exhorted  all  of  us  to  be  the  change  that 
we want to see in the world. It will take our collective 
efforts and action to attain that goal.
Since the adoption of the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  nearly  15  years  ago,  the  lives  of 
millions  of  people  worldwide  have  undoubtedly 
changed.  A  number  of  MDG  targets  have  been  met, 
others are on course to be met, and a number will likely 
not  be  met  by  the  target  date.  We  must  continue  to 
build on the foundation laid by the MDGs, with nearly 
1 billion people lifted out of extreme poverty, increased 
universal  primary  education,  maternal  and  infant 
mortality reduced by nearly 50 per cent and increased 
access to clean drinking water, to mention some of the 
significant achievements. Yet a lot remains to be done. 
The sanitation target lags far behind, too many women 
still  die  in  labour  and  inequalities  within  and  among 
countries remain very high. With fewer than 470 days 
to the MDG target date, we must intensify our efforts to 
accelerate progress and achieve as many MDG targets 
as possible in the remaining period.
In  the  coming  months,  we  will  be  preoccupied 
with  formulating  the  new  agenda,  which  should  be 
ambitious, transformative and produce tangible benefits 
and improved livelihoods for all. With the eradication 
of  poverty  and  hunger  at  its  core,  the  new  agenda 
should  promote  sustained  and  inclusive  economic 
4/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
growth, safeguard the future of our planet and lead to 
the achievement of sustainable development.
We will use the outcomes of the intergovernmental 
processes,  namely, 
the  proposal  on  Sustainable 
Development Goals, the report of the Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing,  the  recommendations  from  the  structured 
dialogues on a technology facilitation mechanism and 
the  forthcoming  Secretary-General’s  synthesis  report. 
The outcome of the third Conference on Financing for 
Development, which will be held in July 2015 in Addis 
Ababa, will also be vital.
Our  greatest  responsibility  will  be  to  ensure 
that  adequate  means  for  implementing  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  in  terms  of  finances,  technology 
development  and  transfer,  and  capacity-building  are 
mobilized and effectively utilized. That is why I chose 
as  the  theme  for  the  general  debate  of  this  session 
“Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015 development agenda”.
One  of  the  key  issues  we  must  pay  particular 
attention  to  is  infrastructure  development.  It  will 
be  pivotal  in  accelerating  economic  growth  and 
development,  expanding  opportunities  and  improving 
lives. It is therefore essential to prioritize investments 
in  infrastructure,  especially  energy,  roads,  railways, 
waterways,  airports,  ports,  border-crossing  facilities 
and 
technology. 
Significant infrastructure deficits in many developing 
countries,  particularly  countries  in  special  situations, 
Africa,  least  developed  countries,  landlocked  least 
developed countries and small island developing States, 
result in increased production and transaction costs and 
reduce their competitiveness.
information  and  communications 
I call upon all Member States and all stakeholders to 
work tirelessly over the next 12 months to formulate and 
agree on a truly transformative agenda, to be adopted 
in September next year. Let us always remember that 
we  carry  the  expectations  of  millions  and  millions  of 
people who yearn for a better future. Many issues and 
challenges will require our attention and efforts during 
this session. Allow me to highlight a few of them.
While  a  lot  of  progress  has  been  made  towards 
the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  we  still  have 
nearly  a  billion  people  trapped  in  poverty.  We  must 
therefore  put  poverty  eradication  at  the  forefront 
of  the  development  agenda.  We  need  to  address  the 
rising inequality within and between countries, which 
continues to pose formidable challenges to our efforts 
to  improve  the  life  of  every  human  being.  For  many 
developing  countries,  improved  market  access,  debt 
sustainability and access to essential medicines for the 
poor  remain  persistent  challenges.  We  must  continue 
to  advance  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  We  must  do  more  to  increase  the  access  of 
girls  to  education,  increase  women’s  participation  in 
leadership and decision-making positions, and enhance 
their  economic  empowerment.  I  will  be  convening  a 
high-level  thematic  debate  on  the  topic  in  February 
next year.
to  step  up  efforts 
On  health,  we  need 
to 
combat  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other 
communicable  and  non-communicable  diseases.  We 
have  seen  in  recent  months  the  loss  of  lives  and  the 
dire effects caused by the Ebola outbreak in some West 
African  countries,  whose  health  systems  have  been 
overwhelmed. I also thank the Secretary-General and 
Members of the United Nations for the Mission that has 
been  set  up  to  combat  the  outbreak  of  that  epidemic. 
Globally,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  women  continue 
to  die  from  pregnancy  and  childbirth-related  causes. 
In  many  developing  countries,  preventable  medical 
conditions are still the main killer of children under the 
age of 5
The outlook for education is equally mixed. While 
under  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  campaign 
primary-school enrolment increased exponentially, the 
issue of quality also needs to be addressed. For tertiary 
education, skills development needs greater attention.
One of the most pressing challenges we face is the 
increasing  level  of  unemployment.  The  rate  of  youth 
unemployment is almost three times higher than that for 
adult unemployment and in some cases exceeds 50 per 
cent. That puts in sharp focus the need to ensure that the 
post-2015  development  agenda  is  truly  transformative 
and leads to increased job opportunities.
As  yesterday’s  Climate  Summit  highlighted, 
climate  change  is  a  defining  challenge  of  our  times. 
We  are  witnessing  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change,  including  rising  sea  levels,  land  degradation, 
desertification and changing weather patterns, among 
others.  As  demonstrated  during  the  recent  United 
Nations Conference on Small Island Developing States 
(SIDS),  held  in  Samoa,  SIDS  and  the  least  developed 
countries  are  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of 
climate change. I intend to convene a high-level event 
on  combating  climate  change  in  June  2015  to  further 
14-54711
5/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
galvanize political support for efforts to reach a global 
agreement  in  2015  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  agrees 
to  proceed  in  the  manner  outlined  during  the  general 
debate of the sixty-ninth session?
We have recently witnessed an alarming increase in 
the number of violent conflicts and new threats posed 
by  terrorist  activities,  extremism  and  intolerance. 
We  need  to  intensify  efforts  to  achieve  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts.  In  that  context,  strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations  is  essential,  and  I  will  be  convening 
a  high-level  thematic  debate  on  that  important  issue. 
The  international  community  must  stand  united  and 
must resolve to combat such challenges, which threaten 
the stability not only of individual States but of entire 
regions. We must speak with one voice to reiterate that 
the  killing  of  innocent  civilians  under  any  pretext  is 
unacceptable.
We  should  continue  to  focus  on  the  revitalization 
of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security 
Council. While some progress has been made towards 
making  the  General  Assembly  more  effective  and 
efficient, we need to do more. The need to reform the 
Security  Council  is  urgent,  as  reflected  in  the  2005 
World Summit Outcome document, which was adopted 
as resolution 60/1. As I said earlier, the organs of the 
United Nations were set up soon after the Second World 
War by only 51 countries. We are now 193 countries. 
Clearly,  the  need  to  change  things  is  very  pressing. 
We  need  to  find  a  way  of  making  progress  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiation process, and I call upon 
Member States to redouble their efforts.
Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than 15 minutes to enable all the speakers to be heard 
at a given meeting. Within that time frame, I would like 
to  appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver  their  statements  at  a 
normal  speed  so  that  interpretation  in  the  six  official 
United Nations languages may be provided properly.
I would like also to draw attention to the decision 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  previous  sessions 
that  the  practice  of  expressing  congratulations  inside 
the  General  Assembly  Hall  after  a  speech  has  been 
delivered  is  strongly  discouraged.  In  that  connection, 
after delivering their statements, speakers are invited to 
exit the Hall through room GA-200, located behind the 
rostrum, before returning to their seats.
It was so decided.
The President: Finally, I should like to draw to the 
attention of members to the fact that, during the general 
debate,  official  photos  of  all  the  speakers  are  taken 
by  the  Department  of  Public  Information.  Members 
interested  in  obtaining  those  photos  are  requested  to 
contact the Photo Library of the United Nations.
Address by Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to  invite  her  to 
address the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Rousseff 
in  Portuguese; 
interpretation provided by the delegation): It is a great 
satisfaction  for  Brazil,  which  has  the  honour  and 
privilege of opening this debate, to have as the President 
of this session of the General Assembly a son of Africa. 
As Brazilians we are united by ties of history, culture 
and  friendship  with  the  African  continent,  whose 
legacy was and always will be decisive for my country’s 
national identity.
I open this general debate on the eve of elections 
in  Brazil  that  will  determine  the  President  of  the 
Republic, State governors and a significant portion of 
our Congress. Those elections represent the celebration 
of a democracy we achieved almost 30 years ago, after 
two decades of dictatorial rule. Through democracy we 
also advanced towards the country’s economic stability.
During  the  past  12  years  in  particular,  we  have 
consolidated 
those  achievements  by  building  an 
inclusive society based on equal opportunity. The great 
transformation to which we are committed has resulted 
in a modern economy and a more egalitarian society. At 
the same time it has required strong civic participation, 
6/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
respect  for  human  rights  and  a  sustainable  vision  of 
development. Lastly, it has also required an engagement 
on  the  world  stage  characterized  by  a  multilateral 
approach,  respect  for  international  law,  the  quest  for 
peace and a culture of solidarity.
A  few  days  ago, 
the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  announced  that 
Brazil  is  no  longer  on  the  World  Hunger  Map.  That 
transformation  is  the  result  of  economic  policies  that 
have  generated  21  million  jobs,  raised  the  minimum 
wage and increased its purchasing power by 71 per cent 
in the past 12 years. Those policies have also reduced 
inequality. Since 2003, 36 million Brazilians have been 
lifted out of extreme poverty, 22 million of them during 
my Administration alone. Social policies and income- 
transfer programmes, coordinated within our plan for a 
Brazil without extreme poverty, have also contributed 
to those results. On the health-care front, we have been 
able  to  meet  our  target  for  reduced  child  mortality 
before the deadline set by the Millennium Development 
Goals.
We  have  also  made  access  to  basic  primary  and 
middle-school education universally available, and we 
are now pursuing the same goal for secondary education. 
We are equally committed to enhancing the quality of 
education  by,  inter  alia,  improving  curriculums  and 
raising  the  profile  of  teachers.  Vocational  education 
has made strides, with the creation of hundreds of new 
schools and the professional training and development 
of  8  million  young  people  over  the  past  four  years. 
There has been an unprecedented expansion of higher 
education,  with  the  establishment  of  new  publicly 
funded  universities  and  of  scholarships  and  financial 
aid that has given 3 million students access to private 
universities.  Affirmative-action  policies  have  enabled 
poor,  black  and  indigenous  students  to  enrol  in 
universities on a massive scale.
to 
the  challenges 
of  building  a  knowledge-based  society  have 
led 
to  the  creation  of  a  programme  known  as  Science 
Without  Borders,  which  has  sent  more  than  100,000 
undergraduate  and  graduate  students  to  the  world’s 
best universities. Through a presidential initiative, our 
National  Congress  has  enacted  legislation  allocating 
to  education  75  per  cent  of  the  royalties  earned  from 
pre-salt  oil  exploration  and  50  per  cent  of  the  social 
fund  generated  by  pre-salt  oil  revenues,  with  25  per 
cent of pre-salt oil exploration royalties going to health 
care. We will thus be able to transform finite resources 
Finally,  our  efforts 
tackle 
such as oil and gas into permanent assets — education, 
science  and  technology,  and  innovation.  That  will  be 
our passport to the future.
We  have  not  neglected  fiscal  discipline  and 
monetary  stability,  and  we  have  striven  to  protect 
Brazil  from  external  volatility.  We  were  thus  able  to 
overcome the challenges arising from the major global 
economic  crisis,  triggered  in  2008  by  the  collapse  of 
Lehman  Brothers,  which  subsequently  developed  into 
national sovereign debt crises affecting many countries. 
We resisted its worst consequences — unemployment, 
wage  depreciation,  erosion  of  social  rights  and 
stalled  investment.  We  followed  through  with  income 
distribution by stimulating growth and employment and 
maintaining  our  investment  in  infrastructure.  Brazil 
jumped  from  the  thirteenth-  to  the  seventh-largest 
economy in the world. Our per capita income more than 
tripled, and inequality fell sharply. In 2002, more than 
half of Brazil’s population was poor or living below the 
poverty line; today three out of every four Brazilians 
are  firmly  in  the  middle-class  and  upper-income 
ranges. During the economic crisis, when hundreds of 
millions around the world were left unemployed, Brazil 
created  12  million  new  jobs.  In  addition,  we  became 
a  primary  destination  for  foreign  investment,  and  we 
resumed  our  investment  in  infrastructure  through 
strong partnerships with the private sector.
All of those gains have occurred within the context 
of  a  sound  fiscal  environment.  We  have  reduced  our 
net  ratio  of  public  debt  to  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP) from about 60 per cent to 35 per cent. Our gross 
external debt in relation to GDP fell from 42 per cent 
to  14  per  cent.  Our  international  reserves  increased 
tenfold,  making  Brazil  an  international  creditor.  Our 
annual  inflation  rate  has  also  remained  within  the 
maximum  and  minimum  range  fixed  by  our  current 
national targets.
Although  we  have  managed  to  fend  off  the  most 
harmful  consequences  of  the  global  crisis,  we  have 
nonetheless  been  acutely  affected  by  it  in  the  past 
few years, owing to the persistence all over the world 
of  substantial  economic  difficulties  that  have  had  a 
negative  effect  on  our  growth.  Here  I  would  like  to 
reiterate what I said at the opening of last year’s general 
debate  (see  A/68/PV.5).  It  is  vital  and  urgent  that  we 
restore  the  momentum  of  the  global  economy,  which 
should  work  to  drive  investment  and  international 
trade  and  reduce  inequalities  between  countries,  and 
not  become  a  factor  that  ultimately  slows  economic 
14-54711
7/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
development  and  income  distribution  in  society  as  a 
whole.
Regarding  international  trade,  there  must  be  a 
unanimous commitment to an action plan leading to the 
conclusion of the Doha Round. It is also imperative that 
we end the disparity between the growing importance 
of developing countries to the global economy and their 
insufficient  representation  and  participation  in  the 
decision-making  processes  of  international  financial 
institutions  such  as 
International  Monetary 
Fund  and  the  World  Bank.  The  delay  in  expanding 
developing countries’ voting rights in those institutions 
is  unacceptable.  The  risk  to  those  institutions  is  that 
could lose their legitimacy and effectiveness.
the 
In  July  Brazil  had  the  pleasure  of  hosting  the 
sixth Summit of the BRICS countries, namely, Brazil, 
Russia, India, China and South Africa. We welcomed 
their  leaders  in  a  fraternal  and  fruitful  meeting  that 
pointed  to  important  possibilities  for  the  future.  We 
signed  agreements  establishing  a  new  development 
bank and a contingent reserve arrangement. The bank 
will cater to the infrastructure financing needs of the 
BRICS and other developing countries. The contingent 
reserve  arrangement  will  protect  them  from  financial 
volatility. Each instrument will have a capital injection 
of $100 billion.
to  peace,  collective  security  and 
The  current  generation  of  world  leaders  —  our 
generation — is also being called on to deal with significant 
challenges 
the 
environment. We have been unable either to solve old 
disputes or to prevent new threats. It is impossible to 
eliminate the underlying causes of conflict through the 
use of force. That has been made clear by the persistence 
of  the  Palestine  question,  the  systematic  massacre  of 
the Syrian people, the tragic national fragmentation of 
Iraq, the serious insecurity in Libya, the conflicts in the 
Sahel and the clashes in Ukraine. Instead of leading to 
peace, every military intervention has worsened those 
conflicts.  We  are  witnessing  the  tragic  proliferation 
of  civilian  victims  and  humanitarian  disasters.  We 
cannot allow such barbaric acts to increase and violate 
our  ethical,  moral  and  civilizational  values.  Nor  can 
we remain indifferent to the spread of the Ebola virus 
in  West  Africa.  We  therefore  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposal  to  establish  a  United  Nations 
Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency  Response.  Brazil  is 
solidly in favour of it.
The  Security  Council  has  had  some  difficulties 
in  promoting  peaceful  solutions  to  those  conflicts. 
To  overcome  such  stalemates,  a  genuine  reform  of 
the  Council  will  be  required,  a  process  that  has  been 
dragging on for quite some time. The coming seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations, in 2015, appears to 
be  an  occasion  conducive  to  achieving  the  progress 
that the situation currently calls for. I am quite certain 
that  we  all  understand  the  serious  risks  arising  from 
paralysis and inaction in the Security Council. A more 
representative  and  legitimate  Security  Council  would 
also be more effective.
I wish to underscore that we cannot possibly remain 
indifferent to the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, particularly 
after the recent dramatic events in Gaza. We condemn 
the  disproportionate  use  of  force  that  has  strongly 
victimized  the  civilian  population,  especially  women 
and children. The conflict must be properly resolved, 
not precariously managed, as has been the case up to 
now.  Effective  negotiations  between  the  parties  must 
ultimately  lead  to  a  two-State  solution  with  Palestine 
and  Israel  living  side  by  side  in  security  within 
internationally recognized borders.
Amid  so  many  conflict  situations,  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean seek to face up to the main problem 
that has marked our region for centuries. I am talking 
about social inequality. Democratic roots have become 
stronger, and the demand for more just, inclusive and 
sustainable  growth  has  grown  ever  stronger.  Through 
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations,  the  Common 
Market  of  the  South,  and  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  integration  efforts 
have made tremendous headway.
to  contribute  according 
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of 
our times. To overcome that challenge, we need a sense 
of urgency, political courage and a keen understanding 
that  actors  have 
the 
principles  of  equity  and  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities. The recent Climate Summit, which was 
convened  in  a  very  timely  manner  by  the  Secretary-
General, further invigorated negotiations at the level of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.
to 
The  Brazilian  Government  will  strive  to  ensure 
that  the  outcome  of  the  negotiations  will  lead  to  a 
balanced, fair and effective agreement. Brazil has been 
doing  its  part  to  face  up  to  the  challenge  of  climate 
change.  In  2009,  during  the  Copenhagen  Conference, 
we committed to a voluntary reduction of 36 to 39 per 
cent of our projected emissions by 2020. Between 2010 
and 2013, we avoided releasing into the atmosphere an 
8/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
average  of  650  million  tons  of  carbon  dioxide  every 
year. Throughout those years, we achieved the lowest 
deforestation  rates  in  our  history.  In  the  past  decade, 
we have reduced deforestation by 79 per cent, without 
giving  up  our  agenda  of  economic  development  and 
social inclusion.
We  have  therefore  shown  that  it  is  possible  to 
grow,  to  include,  to  preserve  and  to  protect.  Such  an 
achievement  stems  from  the  continuous  and  steadfast 
commitment of the Brazilian Government, civil society 
and  other  public  and  private  stakeholders.  We  hope 
that  developed  countries,  which  have  not  only  the 
legal but also a political obligation to lead by example, 
will  unequivocally  and  concretely  demonstrate  their 
commitment to combat this problem that affects us all.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development in Rio de Janeiro, we were proud to set 
the foundations for a new development agenda, based 
on  sustainable  development  goals  applicable  to  both 
developing  and  developed  nations.  It  will  be  crucial 
for  us  to  identify  the  means  of  implementation  that 
correspond to the magnitude of the challenges that we 
have committed ourselves to overcoming. We must be 
ambitious  when  it  comes  to  financing,  cooperation, 
national  capacity-building  and  technology  transfer, 
especially to ensure that the least developed countries 
benefit. Let me underscore, in that context, the need to 
establish a mechanism for the development, transfer and 
dissemination  of  clean,  environmentally  sustainable 
technologies.
In addition to sustainable development and peace, 
the  international  order  that  we  seek  to  build  must  be 
anchored on fundamental values. Among those values, 
emphasis should be put on efforts to combat all forms 
of  discrimination  and  exclusion.  We  have  a  clear-cut 
commitment  to  the  empowerment  of  women  in  the 
labour  market,  liberal  professions,  entrepreneurship, 
political activity and access to education, among others. 
My  Administration  has  tirelessly  fought  violence 
against women in all its forms. We consider the twenty-
first century to be the century of women.
By the same token, the promotion of racial equality 
seeks to compensate Brazilians of African descent for 
the consequences of the centuries of slavery to which 
they  were  subjected.  Today,  those  Brazilians  account 
for more than half of our population. We owe them our 
rich  and  permanent  legacy  of  cultural,  religious  and 
human wealth and values. For us, racial miscegenation 
is a matter of pride. Racism is not only a heinous and 
extremely serious crime, but it is also a scourge that we 
have not hesitated to fight, punish and eradicate.
The same commitment that we have had to combat 
violence  against  women  and  African  Brazilians,  we 
have  also  had  against  homophobia.  My  country’s 
Supreme Court has recognized same-sex civil unions, 
thereby  ensuring  them  the  full  range  of  civil  rights 
arising therefrom. We firmly believe in the dignity of 
all  human  beings  and  in  the  universal  nature  of  their 
fundamental  rights.  Those  rights  must  be  protected 
from all double standards and all forms of politicization, 
both domestically and internationally.
Yet  another  fundamental  value  is  the  respect  for 
public  good.  We  all  face  a  relentless  fight  against 
corruption.  History  has  shown  that  there  is  only  one 
correct  and  efficient  way  to  tackle  corruption;  that  is 
by ending impunity, thereby strengthening institutions 
that oversee, investigate and punish acts of corruption, 
money-laundering  and  other  financial  crimes.  That  is 
a  responsibility  incumbent  upon  each  Government,  a 
responsibility that Brazil has fulfilled by strengthening 
our institutions.
In Brazil, we have designed and built a Government 
transparency  portal  website  that  gives  citizens  access 
to all information on Government spending within 24 
hours  after  monies  are  spent.  We  have  also  adopted 
a  law  on  access  to  information,  which  allows  all 
Brazilian  citizens  the  right  to  access  Government 
data,  except  for  that  related  to  the  country’s  national 
sovereignty. We have strengthened and given autonomy 
to investigators as well as to those in charge of internal 
Government controls. We have passed laws that punish 
not  only  those  who  actively  engage  in  corruption  but 
also those who passively agree with acts of corruption. 
Strengthening  those  institutions  is  absolutely  crucial 
for  strengthening  open  and  democratic  governance. 
Brazil’s recent re-election to the Executive Committee 
of  the  Open  Government  Partnership  will  also  allow 
us 
transparent 
Governments worldwide.
to  promoting  more 
to  contribute 
It is essential that measures be taken to effectively 
protect  human  rights,  not  only  in  the  real  world  but 
also in the virtual world, as stated in resolution 68/167 
on  privacy  in  the  digital  age,  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  past  year.  Brazil  and  Germany 
promoted  an  important  discussion  on  the  matter  in 
2013. We intend to deepen that discussion during this 
sixty-ninth session. For our review of such matters, the 
2013 annual report of the Office of the United Nations 
14-54711
9/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  published  in 
May 2014, can provide significant inputs. In September 
2013, I proposed from this rostrum (see A/68/PV.5) that 
a civil framework be development for the governance 
and  use  of  the  Internet,  a  framework  based  on  the 
principles  of  freedom  of  expression,  privacy,  network 
neutrality and cultural diversity. 
I am pleased to note that the international community 
has,  since  then,  mobilized  its  efforts  to  enhance  the 
current  Internet  governance  architecture.  Brazil’s 
initiative to hold the Global Multistakeholder Meeting 
on the Future of Internet Governance, NETmundial, in 
São Paulo in April was an important step in the process. 
The  Meeting  brought 
together  stakeholders  from 
various regions of the world and from multiple sectors. 
Discussions were held on the principles that should be 
followed and the actions to be undertaken in order to 
ensure that the Internet will continue to develop in an 
open,  democratic,  free,  multisectoral  and  multilateral 
manner.
The  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  have 
before them today challenges of great magnitude, which 
should  be  the  priorities  of  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. The year 2015 must be a turning point. I am 
certain that we will not shy away from fulfilling, with a 
sense of courage and insight, our lofty responsibilities 
to build an international order founded on the promotion 
of peace, sustainable development, poverty eradication 
and the reduction of inequality. Brazil stands ready and 
is fully determined to contribute to that end.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federative Republic 
of Brazil for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States  of  America,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Obama:  We  come 
together  at  a 
crossroads  between  war  and  peace,  between  disorder 
and  integration,  between  fear  and  hope.  Around  the 
globe, there are signposts of progress. The shadow of 
the Second World War that existed at the founding of 
this institution has been lifted, and the prospect of war 
between major Powers reduced. The ranks of Member 
States  have  more  than  tripled,  and  more  people  live 
under  Governments  that  they  elected.  Hundreds  of 
millions  of  human  beings  have  been  freed  from  the 
prison  of  poverty,  with  the  proportion  of  those  living 
in extreme poverty cut in half. And the world economy 
continues to strengthen after the worst financial crisis 
of our lives.
Today, whether you live in downtown Manhattan or 
in my grandmother’s village more than 200 miles from 
Nairobi, you can hold in your hand more information 
than  the  world’s  greatest  libraries.  Together,  we  have 
learned  how  to  cure  disease  and  harness  the  power 
of  the  wind  and  the  sun.  The  very  existence  of  this 
Organization is a unique achievement, with the people 
of  the  world  committing  to  resolve  their  differences 
peacefully and to solve their problems together. I often 
tell  young  people  in  the  United  States  that,  despite 
the  headlines,  this  is  the  best  time  in  human  history 
to be born, for you are more likely than ever before to 
be literate, to be healthy and to be free to pursue your 
dreams.
And yet there is a pervasive unease in our world — a 
sense that the very forces that have brought us together 
have created new dangers and made it difficult for any 
single nation to insulate itself from global forces. As we 
gather  here,  an  outbreak  of  Ebola  overwhelms  public 
health  systems  in  West  Africa  and  threatens  to  move 
rapidly  across  borders.  Russian  aggression  in  Europe 
recalls  the  days  when  large  nations  trampled  small 
ones  in  pursuit  of  territorial  ambitions.  The  brutality 
of terrorists in Syria and Iraq forces us to look into the 
heart of darkness.
Each of those problems demands urgent attention. 
But  they  are  also  symptoms  of  a  broader  problem: 
the  failure  of  our  international  system  to  keep  pace 
with  an  interconnected  world.  We,  collectively,  have 
not  invested  adequately  in  the  public  health  capacity 
of  developing  countries.  Too  often,  we  have  failed 
to  enforce  international  norms  when  it  has  been 
10/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
inconvenient  to  do  so.  And  we  have  not  confronted 
forcefully  enough  the  intolerance,  sectarianism  and 
hopelessness that feeds violent extremism in too many 
parts of the globe.
Fellow  representatives,  we  come 
together  as 
United Nations with a choice to make. We can renew 
the  international  system  that  has  enabled  so  much 
progress, or we can allow ourselves to be pulled back 
by  an  undertow  of  instability.  We  can  reaffirm  our 
collective responsibility to confront global problems, or 
be swamped by more and more outbreaks of instability. 
And for America, the choice is clear — we choose hope 
over fear. We see the future not as something out of our 
control, but as something we can shape for the better 
through  concerted  and  collective  effort.  We  reject 
fatalism or cynicism when it comes to human affairs. 
We choose to work for the world as it should be, as our 
children deserve it to be.
There is much that must be done to meet the test 
of  this  moment.  But  today  I  would  like  to  focus  on 
two  defining  questions  at  the  root  of  so  many  of  our 
challenges.  Will  the  nations  represented  here  today 
be  able  to  renew  the  purpose  of  the  United  Nations 
founding, and will we come together to reject the cancer 
of violent extremism?
First, all of us — big nations and small — must meet 
our responsibility to observe and enforce international 
norms.  We  are  here  because  others  realized  that  we 
gain more from cooperation than from conquest. One 
hundred  years  ago,  a  World  War  claimed  the  lives  of 
many millions, proving that with the terrible power of 
modern weaponry, the cause of empire ultimately leads 
to the graveyard. It would then take another World War 
to roll back the forces of fascism, the notions of racial 
supremacy, and form the United Nations to ensure that 
no nation can subjugate its neighbours and claim their 
territory.
Recently,  Russia’s  actions 
in  Ukraine  have 
challenged that post-war order. Here are the facts. After 
the people of Ukraine mobilized popular protests and 
calls  for  reform,  their  corrupt  President  fled.  Against 
the will of the Government in Kyiv, Crimea was annexed 
by  Russia.  Russia  poured  arms  into  eastern  Ukraine, 
fuelling violent separatists and a conflict that has killed 
thousands. When a civilian airliner was shot down from 
areas  that  those  proxy  forces  controlled,  those  forces 
refused to allow access to the crash site for days. When 
Ukraine  started  to  reassert  control  over  its  territory, 
Russia gave up the pretence of merely supporting the 
separatists and moved troops across the border.
That  reflects  a  vision  of  a  world  in  which  might 
makes  right;  a  world  in  which  one  nation’s  borders 
can  be  redrawn  by  another  and  civilized  people  are 
not allowed to recover the remains of their loved ones 
because of the truth that might be revealed.
America stands for something different. We believe 
that right makes might, that bigger nations should not 
be  able  to  bully  smaller  ones  and  that  people  should 
be  able  to  choose  their  own  future.  Those  are  simple 
truths,  but  they  must  be  defended.  America  and  our 
allies will support the people of Ukraine as they develop 
their  democracy  and  economy.  We  will  reinforce  our 
NATO allies and uphold our commitment to collective 
self-defence.  We  will  impose  a  cost  on  Russia  for  its 
aggression,  and  we  will  counter  falsehoods  with  the 
truth. And we call upon others to join us on the right 
side of history, for while small gains can be won at the 
barrel of a gun, they will ultimately be turned back if 
enough voices support the freedom of nations and the 
right of peoples to make their own decisions.
Moreover, a different path is available — the path of 
diplomacy and peace, and the ideals that this institution 
is designed to uphold. The recent ceasefire agreement in 
Ukraine offers an opening to achieve those objectives. 
If Russia takes that path — a path that for stretches of 
the post-Cold War period resulted in prosperity for the 
Russian people — then we will lift our sanctions and 
welcome Russia’s role in addressing common challenges. 
That  is,  after  all,  what  the  United  States  and  Russia 
have been able to do in past years — from reducing our 
nuclear stockpiles to meeting our obligations under the 
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and to cooperating to 
remove and destroy Syria’s declared chemical weapons. 
That  is  the  kind  of  cooperation  we  are  prepared  to 
pursue again, if Russia changes course.
That  speaks  to  a  central  question  of  our  global 
age — will we solve our problems together in a spirit of 
mutual interest and mutual respect, or will we descend 
into the destructive rivalries of the past? When nations 
find common ground — not simply based on power, but 
on principle — then we can make enormous progress. 
And  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  committed  to 
investing  American  strength  and  to  working  with  all 
nations to address the problems we face in the twenty-
first century.
As we speak, America is deploying our doctors and 
scientists,  supported  by  our  military,  to  help  contain 
the outbreak of Ebola and pursue new treatments. But 
we  need  a  broader  effort  to  stop  a  disease  that  could 
kill  hundreds  of  thousands,  inflict  horrific  suffering, 
14-54711
11/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
destabilize economies and move rapidly across borders. 
It  is  easy  to  see  that  problem  as  a  distant  problem, 
until  it  is  not.  And  that  is  why  we  will  continue  to 
mobilize other countries to join us in making concrete 
commitments,  significant  commitments  to  fight  the 
outbreak  and  enhance  our  system  of  global  health 
security for the long term.
America is pursuing a diplomatic resolution to the 
Iranian nuclear issue, as part of our commitment to stop 
the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons  and  pursue  the  peace 
and security of a world without them. But that can take 
place only if Iran seizes this historic opportunity. My 
message to Iran’s leaders and people has been simple 
and consistent: do not let this opportunity pass. We can 
reach  a  solution  that  meets  Iran’s  energy  needs  while 
assuring  the  world  that  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  is 
peaceful.
America  is  and  will  continue  to  be  a  Pacific 
Power,  promoting  peace,  stability,  and  the  free  flow 
of  commerce  among  nations.  But  we  will  insist  that 
all  nations  abide  by  the  rules  of  the  road  and  resolve 
their  territorial  disputes  peacefully,  consistent  with 
international law. That is how the Asia-Pacific region 
has  grown.  And  that  is  the  only  way  to  protect  the 
progress going forward.
America is committed to a development agenda that 
eradicates extreme poverty by 2030. We will do our part 
to help people feed themselves, power their economies 
and  care  for  their  sick.  If  the  world  acts  together,  we 
can  make  sure  that  all  of  our  children  enjoy  lives  of 
opportunity and dignity.
America 
is  pursuing  ambitious  reductions 
in 
its  carbon  emissions,  and  we  have  increased  our 
investments in clean energy. We will do our part and 
help developing nations do theirs. But the science tells 
us  that  we  can  succeed  in  combating  climate  change 
only if we are joined in that effort by every other nation, 
by every major Power. That is how we can protect the 
planet for our children and our grandchildren.
In other words, on issue after issue, we cannot rely 
on a rule book written for a different century. If we lift 
our eyes beyond our borders, if we think globally and 
if we act cooperatively, we can shape the course of this 
century as our predecessors shaped the post-World War 
Two age.
But as we look to the future, one issue risks starting 
a cycle of conflict that could derail so much progress. 
That  is  the  cancer  of  violent  extremism,  which  has 
ravaged so many parts of the Muslim world. Of course, 
terrorism  is  not  new.  Speaking  before  the  Assembly, 
President Kennedy put it well:
“Terror  is  not  a  new  weapon.  Throughout 
history  it  has  been  used  by  those  who  could  not 
prevail  either  by  persuasion  or  by  example.” 
(A/PV.1013, para. 96)
In  the  twentieth  century,  terror  was  used  by  all 
manner of groups who failed to come to power through 
public  support.  But  in  this  century,  we  have  faced  a 
more lethal and ideological brand of terrorists who have 
perverted one of the world’s great religions. With access 
to technology that allows small groups to do great harm, 
they  have  embraced  a  nightmarish  vision  that  would 
divide the world into adherents and infidels — killing 
as many innocent civilians as possible and employing 
the  most  brutal  methods  to  intimidate  people  within 
their communities.
I have made it clear that America will not base its 
entire foreign policy on reacting to terrorism. Instead, 
we have waged a focused campaign against Al-Qaida 
and  its  associated  forces  —  taking  out  their  leaders 
and denying them the safe havens they rely on. At the 
same time, we have reaffirmed again and again that the 
United States is not and never will be at war with Islam. 
Islam teaches peace. Muslims the world over aspire to 
live  with  dignity  and  a  sense  of  justice.  And  when  it 
comes to America and Islam, there is no us and them, 
there is only us, because millions of Muslim Americans 
are part of the fabric of our country.
So  we  reject  any  suggestion  of  a  clash  of 
civilizations.  Belief  in  permanent  religious  war  is  the 
misguided  refuge  of  extremists  who  cannot  build  or 
create  anything  and  therefore  peddle  only  fanaticism 
and hate. And it is no exaggeration to say that the future 
of  humankind  depends  on  our  uniting  against  those 
who  would  divide  us  along  the  fault  lines  of  tribe  or 
sect, race or religion.
But this is not simply a matter of words. Collectively, 
we must take concrete steps to address the danger posed 
by  religiously  motivated  fanatics  and  the  trends  that 
fuel their recruitment. Moreover, the campaign against 
extremism  goes  beyond  a  narrow  security  challenge. 
For  while  we  have  worked  methodically  to  degrade 
Al-Qaida at its core and have supported a transition to 
a  sovereign  Afghan  Government,  extremist  ideology 
has shifted to other places, particularly in the Middle 
East  and  North  Africa,  where  a  quarter  of  the  young 
12/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
people have no job, where food and water could grow 
scarce, and where corruption is rampant and sectarian 
conflicts have become increasingly hard to contain.
As an international community, we must meet this 
challenge with a focus on four areas. First, the terrorist 
group known as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL)  must  be  degraded  and  ultimately  destroyed.  It 
has terrorized all those whom it has come across in Iraq 
and  Syria.  Mothers,  sisters  and  daughters  have  been 
subjected to rape as a weapon of war. Innocent children 
have been gunned down. Bodies have been dumped into 
mass graves. Religious minorities have been starved to 
death. In the most horrific crimes imaginable, innocent 
human  beings  have  been  beheaded,  with  videos  of 
the atrocity distributed to shock the conscience of the 
world.
No  god  condones  such 
terror.  No  grievance 
justifies  such  actions.  There  can  be  no  reasoning  or 
negotiation with that brand of evil. The only language 
understood  by  killers  of  that  kind  is  the  language  of 
force. So the United States of America will work with 
a broad coalition to dismantle that network of death. In 
this effort, we do not act alone, nor do we intend to send 
United States troops to occupy foreign lands. Instead, 
we will support Iraqis and Syrians fighting to reclaim 
their communities. We will use our military might to 
roll back ISIL in a campaign of air strikes. We will train 
and equip forces fighting those terrorists on the ground. 
We will work to cut off their financing and stop the flow 
of fighters into and out of the region. And more than 
40  nations  have  already  offered  to  join  the  coalition. 
Today, I ask the world to join in this effort. Those who 
have joined ISIL should leave the battlefield while they 
can.  Those  who  continue  to  fight  for  a  hateful  cause 
will find that they are increasingly alone. For we will 
not  succumb  to  threats,  and  we  will  demonstrate  that 
the future belongs to those who build, not to those who 
destroy. So that is an immediate challenge, the first one 
we must meet.
The  second  challenge  is  that  it  is  time  for  the 
world,  especially  Muslim  communities,  to  explicitly, 
forcefully  and  consistently  reject  the  ideology  of 
organizations such as Al-Qaida and ISIL. It is one of 
the tasks of all great religions to accommodate devout 
faith with a modern, multicultural world. No children 
are  born  hating,  and  no  children  anywhere  should  be 
educated  to  hate  other  people.  There  should  be  no 
further tolerance of so-called clerics who call on people 
to harm innocents because they are Jewish or Christian 
or  Muslim.  It  is  time  for  a  new  compact  among  the 
civilized  peoples  of  this  world  to  eradicate  war  at  its 
most fundamental source, and that is the corruption of 
young minds by violent ideology.
That means cutting off the funding that fuels such 
hatred.  It  is  time  to  end  the  hypocrisy  of  those  who 
accumulate  wealth  through  the  global  economy  and 
then siphon funds to those who teach children to tear 
it down. That means contesting the space that terrorists 
occupy, including the Internet and social media. Their 
propaganda has coerced young people to travel abroad 
to  fight  their  wars  and  has  turned  students  —  young 
people  full  of  potential  —  into  suicide  bombers.  We 
must offer an alternative vision. That means bringing 
people  of  different  faiths  together.  All  religions  have 
been attacked by extremists from within at some point, 
and all people of faith have a responsibility to lift up the 
value at the heart of all great religions. Do unto your 
neighbour as you would do — as you would have others 
do — unto yourself.
The  ideology  of  ISIL  or  Al-Qaida  or  Boko 
Haram  will  wilt  and  die  if  it  is  consistently  exposed 
and  confronted  and  refuted  in  the  light  of  day.  Look 
at  the  new  Forum  for  Promoting  Peace  in  Muslim 
Societies, whose purpose Sheikh Abdallah Bin Bayyah 
has  described  as  “We  must  declare  war  on  war,  so 
the  outcome  will  be  peace  upon  peace”.  Look  at  the 
young British Muslims who have responded to terrorist 
propaganda  by  starting  the  #notinmyname  campaign, 
declaring that ISIL is hiding behind a false Islam. Look 
at the Christian and Muslim leaders who came together 
in the Central African Republic to reject violence; listen 
to the imam there who said that, while politics may try 
to divide the religious in that country, religion should 
not be a cause of hate, war, or strife.
Later  today,  the  Security  Council  will  adopt  a 
resolution that underscores the responsibility of States 
to  counter  violent  extremism.  But  resolutions  must 
be  followed  by  tangible  commitments,  so  that  we  are 
accountable when we fall short. Next year, we should 
all  be  prepared  to  announce  the  concrete  steps  that 
we  have  taken  to  counter  extremist  ideologies  in  our 
own countries — by getting intolerance out of schools, 
stopping radicalization before it spreads and promoting 
institutions and programmes that build new bridges of 
understanding.
Thirdly,  we  must  address  the  cycle  of  conflict, 
especially sectarian conflict, that creates the conditions 
that  terrorists  prey  upon.  There  is  nothing  new  about 
14-54711
13/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
wars within religions. Christianity endured centuries of 
vicious  sectarian  conflict.  Today  it  is  violence  within 
Muslim  communities  that  has  become  the  source 
of  so  much  human  misery.  It  is  time  to  acknowledge 
the  destruction  wrought  by  proxy  wars  and  terror 
campaigns between Sunni and Shia across the Middle 
East.  And  it  is  time  that  political,  civic  and  religious 
leaders rejected sectarian strife. So let us be clear. This 
is a fight that no one is winning. A brutal civil war in 
Syria has already killed nearly 200,000 people and has 
displaced  millions.  Iraq  has  come  perilously  close  to 
plunging back into the abyss. The conflict has created 
a fertile recruiting ground for terrorists, who inevitably 
export such violence.
The good news is that we also see signs that the tide 
can be reversed. We have a new, inclusive Government 
in Baghdad and a new Iraqi Prime Minister welcomed 
by his neighbours; we see Lebanese factions that reject 
those who try to provoke war. Such steps must be followed 
by  a  broader  truce.  Nowhere  is  that  more  necessary 
than in Syria. Together with our partners, America is 
training  and  equipping  the  Syrian  opposition  to  be  a 
counterweight to the terrorists of ISIL and the brutality 
of  the  Al-Assad  regime.  But  the  only  lasting  solution 
to Syria’s civil war is political — an inclusive political 
transition that responds to the legitimate aspirations of 
all  Syrian  citizens,  regardless  of  ethnicity,  regardless 
of creed.
Cynics may argue that such an outcome can never 
come to pass. But there is no other way for the madness 
in Syria to end, whether one year from now or 10. And it 
points to the fact that it is time for a broader negotiation 
in  the  region,  in  which  major  Powers  address  their 
differences  directly,  honestly  and  peacefully  across 
the  table  from  one  another,  rather  than  through  gun-
wielding  proxies.  I  can  promise  the  international 
community  that  America  will  remain  engaged  in  the 
region, and we are prepared to engage in that effort.
My  fourth  and  final  point  is  a  simple  one.  The 
countries of the Arab and Muslim world must focus on 
the  extraordinary  potential  of  their  people,  especially 
the  youth.  And  here  I  would  like  to  speak  directly  to 
young  people  across  the  Muslim  world.  You  come 
from  a  great  tradition  that  stands  for  education,  not 
ignorance;  innovation,  not  destruction;  the  dignity  of 
life,  not  murder.  Those  who  call  you  away  from  that 
path are betraying that tradition, not defending it. You 
have  demonstrated  that  when  young  people  have  the 
tools  to  succeed  —  good  schools,  education  in  math 
and  science,  an  economy  that  nurtures  creativity  and 
entrepreneurship  —  then  societies  will  flourish.  So, 
America  will  partner  with  those  who  promote  that 
vision.
Where women are full participants in a country’s 
politics  or  economy,  societies  are  more  likely  to 
succeed. And that is why we support the participation of 
women in parliaments and peace processes, schools and 
the economy. If young people live in places where the 
only option is between the dictates of a State or the lure 
of an extremist underground, then no counterterrorism 
strategy can succeed. But where a genuine civil society 
is allowed to flourish — where people can express their 
views and organize peacefully for a better life — then 
you dramatically expand the alternatives to terror.
And  such  positive  change  need  not  come  at  the 
expense of tradition and faith. We see that in Iraq, where 
a young man started a library for his peers. “We link 
Iraq’s heritage to their hearts”, he said, and “give them 
a reason to stay”. We see it in Tunisia, where secular 
and Islamist parties worked together through a political 
process  to  produce  a  new  constitution.  We  see  it  in 
Senegal, where civil society thrives alongside a strong 
democratic Government. We see it in Malaysia, where 
vibrant entrepreneurship is propelling a former colony 
into the ranks of advanced economies. And we see it in 
Indonesia, where what began as a violent transition has 
evolved into a genuine democracy.
Ultimately  the  task  of  rejecting  sectarianism  and 
rejecting  extremism  is  a  generational  one,  and  a  task 
for  the  people  of  the  Middle  East  themselves.  No 
external  power  can  bring  about  a  transformation  of 
hearts  and  minds.  But  America  will  be  a  respectful 
and  constructive  partner.  We  will  neither  tolerate 
terrorist  safe  havens  nor  act  as  an  occupying  Power. 
We will take action against threats to our security and 
our  allies,  while  building  an  architecture  of  counter-
terrorism cooperation. We will increase efforts to lift 
up  those  who  counter  extremist  ideologies  and  who 
seek to resolve sectarian conflict. And we will expand 
our programmes to support entrepreneurship and civil 
society, education and youth, because ultimately those 
investments are the best antidote to violence.
We  recognize  as  well  that  leadership  will  be 
necessary to address the conflict between Palestinians 
and Israelis. As bleak as the landscape appears, America 
will not give up on the pursuit of peace. Understand that 
the  situation  in  Iraq  and  Syria  and  Libya  should  cure 
anybody  of  the  illusion  that  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
14/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
is  the  main  source  of  problems  in  the  region.  For  far 
too  long  that  has  been  used  as  an  excuse  to  distract 
people from problems at home. The violence engulfing 
the region today has made too many Israelis ready to 
abandon the hard work of peace. And that is something 
worthy  of  reflection  within  Israel.  Because  let  us  be 
clear: the status quo in the West Bank and Gaza is not 
sustainable.  We  cannot  afford  to  turn  away  from  that 
effort — not when rockets are fired at innocent Israelis, 
or when the lives of so many Palestinian children are 
taken from us in Gaza. So long as I am President, we 
will stand up for the principle that Israelis, Palestinians, 
the  region  and  the  world  will  be  more  just  and  more 
safe with two States living side by side, in peace and 
security.
So  this  is  what  America  is  prepared  to  do:  take 
action  against  immediate  threats,  while  pursuing  a 
world in which the need for such action is diminished. 
The United States will never shy away from defending 
our  interests,  but  we  will  also  not  shy  away  from  the 
promise of this institution and its Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights — the notion that peace is not merely 
the absence of war, but the presence of a better life.
I realize that America’s critics will be quick to point 
out  that  at  times  we  too  have  failed  to  live  up  to  our 
ideals and that America has plenty of problems within 
its own borders. That is true. In a summer marked by 
instability  in  the  Middle  East  and  Eastern  Europe,  I 
know the world also took notice of the small American 
city  of  Ferguson,  Missouri,  where  a  young  man  was 
killed and a community was divided. So, yes, we have 
our  own  racial  and  ethnic  tensions.  And,  like  every 
country, we continually wrestle with how to reconcile 
the vast changes wrought by globalization and greater 
diversity with the traditions that we hold dear.
But we welcome the scrutiny of the world, because 
what you see in America is a country that has steadily 
worked  to  address  our  problems,  to  make  our  union 
more perfect, to bridge the divides that existed at the 
founding of this nation. America is not the same as it 
was 100 years ago or 50 years ago or even a decade ago. 
We fight for our ideals and we are willing to criticize 
ourselves  when  we  fall  short.  We  hold  our  leaders 
accountable and insist on a free press and an independent 
judiciary. We address our differences in the open space 
of democracy, with respect for the rule of law, with a 
place  for  people  of  every  race  and  every  religion  and 
with  an  unyielding  belief  in  the  ability  of  individual 
men and women to change their communities and their 
circumstances and their countries for the better.
After nearly six years as President, I believe that that 
promise can help light the world. I have seen a longing 
for positive change — for peace and for freedom and for 
opportunity and for an end to bigotry — in the eyes of 
young people whom I have met around the globe. They 
remind  me  that  no  matter  who  you  are  or  where  you 
come from or what you look like or what God you pray 
to or whom you love, there is something fundamental 
that we all share. 
Eleanor  Roosevelt,  a  champion  of  the  United 
Nations and America’s role in it, once asked, 
“Where,  after  all,  do  universal  human  rights 
begin? In small places, close to home — so close 
and so small that they cannot be seen on any maps 
of the world. Yet they are the world of the individual 
person; the neighbourhood he lives in; the school or 
college he attends; the factory, farm or office where 
he works.”
Around the world, young people are moving forward, 
hungry for a better world. Around the world, in small 
places,  they  are  overcoming  hatred  and  bigotry  and 
sectarianism.  And  they  are  learning  to  respect  each 
other, despite differences.
The  people  of  the  world  now  look  to  us,  here,  to 
be as decent and dignified and courageous as they are 
trying to be in their daily lives. And at this crossroads, 
I  can  promise  the  Assembly  that  the  United  States 
of  America  will  not  be  distracted  or  deterred  from 
what must be done. We are heirs to a proud legacy of 
freedom, and we are prepared to do what is necessary 
to  secure  that  legacy  for  generations  to  come.  I  ask 
that the Assembly join us in this common mission, for 
today’s children and tomorrow’s.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Uganda.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
14-54711
15/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of 
the Republic of Uganda, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Museveni:  First  of  all,  I  thank  the 
General Assembly for electing His Excellency Mr. Sam 
Kutesa, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. 
As the Assembly knows, the United Nations system 
needs reform to reflect the new needs and realities in the 
world today. Uganda will use the time of its presidency 
to  make  a  small  contribution  towards  the  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  organs  by  pushing  for  the 
African agenda on that issue. Those reforms, as will be 
agreed by all of us, will strengthen the United Nations, 
not otherwise.
Africa, Uganda included, is at long last emerging 
from  the  long  night  of  decline  that  the  continent  has 
been through in the last 500 years — ever since 1472, 
when the Portuguese started encroaching on the African 
coastline.  Those  500  years  witnessed  great  traumas 
inflicted on the African continent, including the slave 
trade,  colonialism,  neocolonialism,  plunder,  human 
haemorrhage and, in some cases, even genocide. Those 
traumas resulted in the haemorrhage of the population 
and  the  depopulation  of  the  African  continent  to 
the  extent  that  by  1900  the  population  of  the  whole 
of  Africa  was  only  133  million  people,  while  that  of 
China,  which  is  only  one  quarter  of  the  land  area  of 
Africa, was 489,000 million people. In other words, by 
1990, the population of the whole of Africa was only a 
quarter of that of China, in a land area four times larger. 
Such  traumas  were  possible  in  Africa  owing  not 
only  to  internal  weaknesses  but  also  external  factors. 
Foreign  aggression  caused  serious  distortions 
in 
African  societies.  There  was,  for  instance,  the  very-
well-organized  Kingdom  of  Kongo  on  the  Atlantic 
coast  at  the  time  the  first  Portuguese  explorer,  Diego 
Cão, arrived there in 1483. The Kingdom covered parts 
of  northern  Angola,  Cabinda,  parts  of  the  Republic 
of  Congo  and  the  western  parts  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. As a consequence of the actions 
of colonialism, that polity, that Kingdom, declined and 
disintegrated. 
It  is  only  now  that  the  modern  countries  of  that 
area are regenerating that portion of Africa. It is those 
distortions and the original endogenous weaknesses of 
Africa  that  the  present  generation  of  African  leaders 
have  been  addressing.  In  many  African  countries, 
positive results are beginning to manifest themselves. 
The middle class in Africa is now of the magnitude of 
313 million people, and that has boosted the purchasing 
power of Africa to $2.5 trillion. That purchasing power 
is growing at the rate of 3.2 per cent per annum. That 
growth  and  expansion  of  the  African  gross  domestic 
product  and  purchasing  power  has  happened  despite 
inadequate  roads,  inadequate  railways,  inadequate 
electricity, and so on. Once those strategic bottlenecks 
are addressed, the sky will be the limit as far as Africa’s 
potential is concerned. 
One bottleneck that has bedevilled Africa has been 
the  espousing  of  the  pseudo-ideology  of  religious  or 
tribal  sectarianism,  as  well  as  chauvinism  vis-à-vis 
women. When President Obama was walking out, I met 
him at the door and told him that he had copied some of 
my  statement.  That  pseudo-ideology  has  fuelled  most 
of the conflicts in Africa. We are also witnessing the 
same pseudo-ideology causing havoc in the Middle East 
and North Africa. When uninformed outsiders link up 
with those pseudo-ideologists, the permutation is most 
tragic.  Sectarian  ideology  is  pseudo  and  bankrupt 
because it is at variance with the people’s real interests 
of symbiosis and the exchange of goods and services, 
as well as integration for mutual benefit. Only parasites 
revel in such schemes. That pseudo-ideology should be 
banished and treated with the contempt that it deserves.
With  regard  to  socioeconomic  transformation, 
Uganda is busy building hard-surface roads, electricity 
networks,  railways,  information  and  communication 
technology  networks,  a  universal  education  system 
and a pan-Ugandan health-care system. Together with 
our neighbours, we have integrated our markets in the 
East African Community and the Common Market for 
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa.  We  also  partner  with 
others  on  common  security  solutions.  Africa  and  the 
individual  African  countries  are  therefore  becoming 
more  credible  partners  with  all  serious  actors  beyond 
our shores. 
Uganda  needs  and  welcomes  investment,  trade 
access, tourists and, in some cases, security partnerships 
that  are  approved  by  the  African  Union  with  our 
partners in the world, many of whom are Members of 
the United Nations.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Uganda 
for the statement he has just made.
16/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by His Majesty Don Felipe VI, King of Spain 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by His Majesty the King of Spain. 
His  Majesty  Don  Felipe  VI,  King  of  Spain,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Majesty  Don  Felipe  VI,  King  of  Spain,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
King Felipe (spoke in Spanish): It is a great honour 
and privilege to address the General Assembly as the 
King of Spain at the start of my reign.
I  appear  before  the  Assembly  to  share  with  the 
international  community  my  country’s  commitment 
to the universal principles and values that best define 
humanity.  Today  I  have  the  pleasure  to  present  what 
Spain  —  renewed  but  remaining  true  to  itself  and  to 
its  international  commitments —  can  offer  for  peace, 
liberty, justice and human rights in all nations and for 
all persons, along with well-being and prosperity.
As  a  nation  with  ancient  roots  and  a  clear  global 
calling, Spain has contributed intensely and decisively 
to shaping world history. Let us recall that Spain was 
present at the genesis of globalization and of international 
law,  as  well  as  of  medieval  parliamentarianism  and 
contemporary liberal democracy. With that perspective 
of centuries, we see clearly that our best contributions 
come about when we move forward while opening up 
to the world.
Sincerely,  despite  our  problems,  I  see  Spanish 
society today as exemplary in its commitment to human 
dignity,  in  solidarity  with  the  most  marginalized. 
Spaniards harbour a profound sense of equality. They 
reject  fanaticism,  violence  and  intolerance  and  love 
peace.  Spanish  society  is  culturally  and  linguistically 
diverse, capable of overcoming difficulties responsibly 
and  with  integrity  while  demanding  integrity  and 
excellence as civic values intrinsic to democracy. Spain 
is a strong, generous and vigorous country, and I feel 
truly proud of it.
Therefore,  today  we  Spaniards  look  to  the  future 
with a firm will to share and to help to build a better 
reality for all peoples. Our foundations are solid, forged 
over  centuries  and  strengthened  especially  in  recent 
decades.  The  commitments  Spain  has  made  with  the 
rest of the international community are established on 
those foundations.
Democracy  is  today  the  essential  guide  of  our 
collective  coexistence.  It  will  soon  be  four  decades 
since  the  beginning  of  Spain’s  political  transition, 
which  allowed  us  to  move  from  a  dictatorship  to  a 
political  system  based  on  freedoms  and  rights  and 
marked  by  a  desire  for  historical  reconciliation  and  a 
true spirit of harmony. Allow me, therefore, to lay claim 
Spain’s  political  masterpiece  with  pride  and  emotion, 
an example for many in the world. We Spaniards have 
built  a  social  and  democratic  order  based  on  the  rule 
of  law  that  protects  all  citizens  and  Spain’s  various 
territories  in  their  political,  geographic,  cultural  and 
linguistic  diversity.  Thus  Spain’s  firm  commitment 
to  promoting  and  defending  democratic  values  in  the 
world can always be counted on.
Without forgetting the impact of the crisis, Spain’s 
economic  development,  particularly  since  the  second 
half of the past century, has placed our economy among 
the  first  in  the  world  and  among  the  most  open  and 
competitive. Today we have achieved global leadership 
rankings  in  various  sectors  with  a  high  added  value 
and  significant  social  impact.  Bearing  that  in  mind, 
Spain  strongly  supports  a  global  and  sustainable  way 
of economic development that makes possible material 
progress  and  well-being,  that  generates  employment 
and  protects  individuals  and  their  social  rights,  a 
sustainable  development  model  respectful  of 
the 
environment, respecting international norms and with 
high, ethical economic values.
Spain  has  always  been  a  major  cultural  Power. 
We understand that in all societies, culture shapes our 
identity  and  is  a  source  of  material  and  non-material 
wealth. The strength of Spanish, a universal language 
shared by dozens of countries and hundreds of millions 
of  people  on  all  continents,  decisively  contributes  to 
guaranteeing greater cultural and linguistic diversity in 
the international arena. That is clearly an objective of 
the human community, so widely diverse, represented 
here.  The  Spanish  language  must  therefore  fully 
assume  its  formal  position  as  an  official  language  of 
the United Nations and as a working language that is 
fully used and represented. Given the scope and depth 
of  our  cultural  base,  we  affirm  Spain’s  commitment 
to defending cultural diversity in all of its aspects and 
manifestations.
14-54711
17/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
Spain’s history and privileged geographic position 
at  a  crossroads  of  continents,  seas  and  civilizations 
have  led  it  to  develop  a  solid,  universal  perspective 
and a special connection to some regions in the world. 
Among them, Europe represents an obvious dimension. 
The  process  of  continental  integration  around  the 
European Union today is part of the national project of 
the Kingdom of Spain. We call for a Europe of greater 
unity and cohesiveness that preserves and extends the 
democratic  and  civic  values  that  inspired  its  creation 
and that works to guarantee the prosperity of all of its 
citizens.  We  also  defend  a  Europe  that  is  marked  by 
strength and solidarity that generously and effectively 
contributes  to  the  peaceful  progress  of  all  regions  of 
the world.
identity  and  represents  for  us  a 
Due  to  its  history  and  culture,  the  Ibero-American
community  of  nations  is  a  substantial  part  of  our 
collective 
true 
brotherhood.  That  sentiment  extends  to  other  areas, 
thanks 
linguistic 
connections  that  we  also  maintain  with  other  nations 
and peoples in the rest of the Americas, in Africa, Asia 
and Oceania.
to 
the  cultural,  historic  and 
The Mediterranean, with its northern and southern 
shores,  together  with  the  Middle  East  and  the  entire 
Arab  world,  are  areas  very  close  to  Spain,  not  only 
geographically,  but  also  culturally  and  emotionally. 
That  is  why  we  affirm  our  will  and  interest  in 
contributing to the stability of the region, as something 
fundamental  for  achieving  peace  in  the  world.  It  is  a 
region in which some societies suffer the scourge of an 
intolerable barbarism, a criminal and atrocious violence 
that  threatens  all  societies  of  the  planet  and  the  very 
values of universal human civilization.
Spain’s  global  vocation  and  its  commitments  in 
democratic, economic and cultural matters that I have 
just mentioned are summarized by its full commitment 
to the Charter of the United Nations, on behalf of which 
we  are  convened  here.  The  Charter  represents  one  of 
the  greatest  achievements  of  humankind;  we  must 
therefore preserve, respect and enforce it. Thus Spain 
firmly believes in the United Nations and its multilateral 
mechanisms  for  preserving  international  peace  and 
security  and  for  contributing  to  the  development  of 
societies.
We  live  in  times  marked  by  a  proliferation  of 
conflicts, some of which are especially devastating and 
have indiscriminate impacts on civilians. Our primary 
objective must be to prevent war, and when we fail, we 
must  protect  and  assist  the  innocent  and  the  injured. 
We must never relent in our efforts to resolve conflict 
through diplomacy and all of the instruments bestowed 
by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Above  all,  we 
must not lose hope, and we must remember that in spite 
of  everything,  the  longing  for  harmony  can  and  must 
prevail over even the most entrenched hatreds.
A  tapestry  version  of  Guernica  —  a  work  by  the 
universal Spaniard, Pablo Picasso — hangs outside the 
entrance to the Security Council Chamber. The scene 
depicted in this art icon still stirs our conscience and 
reminds us of the fatal consequences of our inability to 
prevent and resolve conflicts that afflict us all. It is a 
mistake to think that wars or man-made disasters affect 
only one community or one region without any impact 
on the others. When barbarism triumphs in one part of 
the world, no one is beyond its reach; we are all victims.
But armed conflicts are not the only threats to the 
international  community.  Evil  takes  many  forms  and 
their  victims  have  many  faces:  every  child  caught  in 
a  crisis  situation  or  in  violence,  every  woman  who  is 
molested  or  whose  rights  are  limited  simply  because 
she  is  a  woman,  every  patient  who  dies  for  lack  of 
medicine  or  every  abandoned  elderly  person,  every 
family  without  food  and  without  hope  because  of  an 
unjust distribution of wealth, every journalist murdered 
for doing his or her duty to inform — all of these are 
so many appeals to our conscience and to our sense of 
duty, and so many calls to action.
The members of the General Assembly can count 
on Spain as we confront, together and in the framework 
of international law, those who seek to destroy, through 
their  intolerance,  violence  or  sectarianism,  the  values   
and principles that underlie our United Nations. Spain 
has always demonstrated its unconditional support for 
the United Nations system and its active responsibility 
with  regard  to  the  principles  that  we  all  recognize  in 
this  Assembly:  freedom,  justice,  equality,  national 
sovereignty, independence and the integrity of States. 
Spain  will  continue  to  assume,  as  it  has,  its  full 
responsibilities as a Member of United Nations.
Against  this  background,  Spain  is  taking  another 
step  forward  as  a  candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat 
on  the  Security  Council  for  the  2015-2016  biennium. 
Our candidacy is an integral part of my country’s solid 
commitment  to  serve  the  international  community 
more, and to serve it better. That is what we have done 
18/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
in the Security Council once every decade over the past 
40 years, because the Assembly has trusted us. I only 
ask that that trust be renewed.
In  the  past  25  years,  130,000  members  of  the 
Spanish armed forces have participated in peacekeeping 
operations and humanitarian aid missions in all regions 
of  the  world.  They  have  been —  and,  above  all,  have 
felt — part of a great collective effort to which many 
of  the  countries  represented  here  have  contributed. 
Similarly, in recent decades Spain has consolidated its 
status as one of the leading contributors to development 
cooperation. There is no lasting peace without lasting 
security,  without  sustainable  development.  There  is 
no sustainable development without greater solidarity, 
both  among  and  within  nations.  Furthermore, 
development  must  be  accompanied  by  policies  of 
inclusion that envisage the full equality of women and 
their incorporation in all spheres of political, social and 
economic life.
As we can see, Spain has a spirit of solidarity. In 
the  past  14  years,  my  compatriots  have  contributed 
$30 billion to global development. Of this contribution, 
nearly $1 billion has been earmarked for achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals, through a fund set up 
by Spain and co-led by the United Nations Development 
Programme. That is the largest contribution made by a 
single country. Specifically, one of the most important 
tasks of the General Assembly at this session will be to 
finalize the negotiations for the post-2015 development 
agenda  and  to  establish  the  sustainable  development 
goals.  Here,  too,  Spain  has  taken  a  step  forward  by 
creating  the  first  fund  that  is  already  functioning  for 
these sustainable development goals.
To a large extent, achieving sustainability involves 
fighting  the  harmful  effects  of  climate  change.  The 
Climate  Summit  held  yesterday  and  the  recent  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  held  in  Samoa  —  whose  organization  Spain 
contributed  to  —  have  raised  our  awareness  even 
further  on  this  issue.  They  also  enable  us  to  improve 
our  response  and  resilience  in  the  face  of  restricted 
situations,  especially  as  regards  the  most  vulnerable 
States whose very survival is at risk.
The  sustainable  development  goals  that  we  have 
set  for  ourselves  are  within  our  reach.  Again,  there 
are reasons for hope. I am thinking in particular of the 
progress  made  in  Africa,  a  continent  that  is  so  close 
to  Spain  and  where  new  examples  of  innovation  and 
creativity are found everywhere. Africa is a continent 
of the present and future, where over the past decade we 
have seen some of the fastest-growing economies. But 
it is crucial to put an end to the conflicts that still afflict 
parts of the region and hold back its development. From 
the  Sahel  to  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Great  Lakes 
region,  Spain  contributes  to  ending  these  conflicts 
by  meeting  its  commitments,  which  are  born  out  of 
solidarity and proximity.
We believe in Africa and we are demonstrating that 
belief, for instance when acute crises arise such as the 
Ebola epidemic, which is affecting a major and growing 
part of the central region. I want to express the Spanish 
people’s solidarity with the victims and our support for 
those who are doing everything possible to assist them, 
sometimes at the cost of their own lives. And I offer my 
own heartfelt tribute to the humanitarian aid workers of 
the United Nations, whose vocation leads them to leave 
everything  behind  for  the  most  vulnerable,  wherever 
they may be.
It  has  been  almost  30  years  since  my  father, 
King Juan Carlos, addressed this General Assembly for 
the first time (see A/41/PV.4). Today, as then, Spain is 
open to a new age. Today, as then, we take our place 
as  active  and  responsible  members  of  international 
community represented here. I can assure those present 
here  that  the  international  community,  represented 
today in the General Assembly, can continue to count 
on  Spain’s  support  and  active  participation  in  the 
unwavering  protection  of  the  values    and  interests  of 
humankind in peace, peace that is ever more prosperous 
and  just.  Spain  supports  a  United  Nations  that  is  not 
only  stronger  but,  above  all,  more  united  —  more 
united against bigotry, intolerance and barbarism, more 
united in fighting poverty, hunger and marginalization, 
more united so that education and health can reach all, 
and more united in firmly defending the dignity of all 
human beings.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the King of Spain for the statement  he 
has just made.
His  Majesty  Don  Felipe  VI,  King  of  Spain,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Ould Abdel 
Aziz, President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Mauritania.
14-54711
19/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz, 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Ould Abdel Aziz (spoke in Arabic): On 
behalf of the African Union and of the Islamic Republic 
of Mauritania, I am pleased to express to you, Sir, my 
warmest  congratulations  and  my  best  wishes  on  the 
occasion  of  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  trust  that  your 
good judgement and your competence, as well as your 
extensive  experience  in  the  diplomatic  leadership  of 
your  brotherly  country,  Uganda,  constitute  the  best 
guarantee for the good conduct and success of the work 
of our current session.
I  am  also  pleased  to  point  out  the  remarkable 
work  of  your  predecessor,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  during  his 
leadership of the proceedings of the previous session. 
I would also like to express my warmest thanks to His 
Excellency  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
for  his  tireless  efforts  for  international  peace  and 
security and for his approach in support of dialogue as 
the best way to address the current international issues.
The  General  Assembly  has  always  been  a  forum 
for  the  exchange  of  opinions  and  the  discussion  of 
important  international  issues  that  affect  the  lives  of 
nations and people. That explains the privileged status 
that it has gained within the different institutions of the 
United  Nations  system.  This  annual  meeting,  which 
brings  leaders  together,  is  a  valuable  opportunity  to 
seek  a  common  understanding  for  a  global  vision, 
ensuring proposals for efficient solutions to the current 
international problems that respond to the expectations 
of people around the world.
In that regard, I am pleased to address this audience 
and to present to the world, through this forum, what 
we  Africans  have  done  in  terms  of  achievements  and 
development, the challenges facing our young continent, 
our  expectations  of  the  international  community  and 
our  aspirations  in  terms  of  an  effective  contribution 
to  addressing  the  current  situation,  humanity  and  the 
building of its future.
Several  countries  of  the  African  continent  have 
experienced  high  levels  of  growth  despite  the  severe 
economic  crisis  that  still  prevails  in  the  world.  The 
average growth rate in the continent has reached 5 per 
cent and is nearing 6 per cent. That economic recovery 
is the result, among other factors, of the wise economic 
policies  adopted  by  African  Governments.  The 
promotion of local and foreign investment, the building 
of new infrastructure and greater attention to the most 
vulnerable  members  of  society  have  therefore  been 
encouraged. Similarly, projects and income-generating 
activities  have  been  supported,  thereby  contributing 
efficiently  to  the  reduction  of  unemployment,  in 
particular  among  young  people  and  women.  Africa  is 
working tirelessly to change from a consumption space 
to  a  production  zone  in  order  to  ensure  employment 
opportunities for millions of its people.
The  achievement  of  food  self-sufficiency,  the 
development  of  agricultural  industries  and  poverty 
reduction  in  rural  areas  are  core  objectives  of  the 
African  Union.  In  that  regard,  the  agriculture  and 
animal  resources  sector  has  received  great  interest 
during successive African summits. The year 2014 has 
therefore  been  declared  the  Year  of  Agriculture  and 
Food Security in Africa. The agriculture sector employs 
some 60 per cent of the workforce and represents one 
third of the gross domestic product of the continent.
In that context, the African summit recommended 
that  10  per  cent  of  the  budget  of  African  States  be 
allocated to the development of the agriculture sector. 
African Governments have recognized the importance 
of food security and adopted efficient policies for the 
development  of  that  vital  sector.  Such  policies  have 
achieved  their  objectives  and  have  enabled  some 
African  countries  to  be  self-sufficient  in  various 
agricultural products, while other countries are making 
steady  progress  on  that  path.  They,  too,  are  therefore 
becoming self-sufficient.
In  Africa,  we  seek  fruitful  cooperation  with  our 
partners,  thereby  opening  international  markets  to 
our agricultural products and, in that way, developing 
our  capacities  for  agricultural  research  and  providing 
access to developed technologies and techniques for the 
preservation of the environment.
When  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  were 
adopted  in  2000,  Africa  did  not  have  a  common 
vision for the major development issues. Its voice was 
therefore  not  adequately  heard.  Despite  that,  we  have 
worked  seriously  and  energetically  to  achieve  those 
Goals. Today, Africa speaks with one voice and seeks 
to promote development in order to become a healthy 
20/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
region  free  of  scourges,  wars  and  conflicts,  where 
justice, good governance and respect for human rights 
prevail.
In that regard, African leaders have taken important 
decisions  on  core  issues  for  the  continent,  including 
the vision of the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  which  focuses  on  the 
development  of  human  resources  and  the  eradication 
of poverty, epidemics and deadly diseases. It must be 
pointed  out  that  the  fight  against  AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis  has  been  strengthened  through  the  many 
programmes  that  have  helped  to  promote  actions  to 
reduce the effects of such scourges.
Despite  such  efforts,  the  indicators  in  the  health 
sector  lead  us  to  exert  every  effort  to  strengthen  our 
health-care system, to improve access to its services and 
to  develop  its  human  resources  and  infrastructure.  In 
that context, African Heads of State recently launched 
a strong initiative to fight AIDS. The sudden outbreak 
of the Ebola virus in West Africa constitutes a major 
challenge owing to the rapid spread of the disease and 
the tragic fate of its victims. The steps taken to contain 
the  spread  of  that  scourge  remain  inadequate  and  are 
not  sufficiently  effective.  Every  day  that  passes  until 
an appropriate treatment for the disease is discovered 
increases  the  number  of  victims  and  causes  it  to 
spread to new areas. Despite the measures adopted and 
the  efforts  made,  to  date,  Africa  has  not  managed  to 
successfully deal with the epidemic.
I therefore appeal to the international community 
from  this  rostrum  to  work  efficiently  to  provide 
necessary  vaccines  for  people  affected  by  the  Ebola 
virus,  to  support  measures  to  control  its  prevention 
and spread, and to increase investments in the field of 
scientific research in virology and endemic diseases, as 
well  as  to  provide  assistance  to  countries  affected  by 
that  scourge.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  actions 
and initiatives taken by some States and international 
organizations on behalf of the countries affected by the 
spread of this disease.
The  phenomenon  of  illegal  immigration  and  the 
tragedies  it  engenders  daily  prompt  us  to  take  strong 
action to find efficient and rapid solutions. We cannot 
simply count the bodies that wash up onto the beaches 
or undertake rescue operations at sea for thousands of 
migrants crammed in unsafe boats. Illegal immigration 
is  a  complex  phenomenon.  It  is  the  cumulative  result 
of economic factors and practices linked to organized 
crime. Consequently, no matter how closely we patrol 
our borders and no matter how rigorous our laws, we 
will  not  be  able  to  prevent  waves  of  migrants  from 
moving  from  south  to  north.  Appropriate  solutions 
must  be  found  that  take  into  account  the  real  causes 
of  the  phenomenon  and  that  guarantee  African  youth 
increased  employment  opportunities  and  a  dignified 
life.
Good  governance  is  a  necessary  precondition  for 
successful  development  efforts.  The  African  political 
elite  is  fully  aware  of  that  fact  and  is  committed 
to  promoting  collective  freedom  and  consolidating 
democracy as the best means for managing public affairs. 
The  African  Union  has  taken  preventive  measures 
against attempts at usurping power by non-democratic 
means, including by encouraging democratic practices, 
establishing pluralism and organizing many transparent 
elections.
In 
implies 
its  very  essence,  democracy 
the 
participation of all sectors of civil society. The nature 
of  African  societies  has  therefore  required  positive 
discrimination  on  behalf  of  women,  allowing  them 
access  to  elective  office  and  leadership  positions  in 
order  to  ensure  gener  equality.  In  the  same  context, 
youth  enjoys  priority  in  development  plans  and  in 
the  political,  social  and  economic  policies  of  African 
countries.  It  is  estimated  that  the  population  of  the 
continent will reach 3 billion at the threshold of 2050; 
two thirds of that total will be youth. That demographic, 
specific  to  the  continent,  calls  for  a  new  focus  on 
investments in infrastructure and social services, and 
for  prioritizing  such  sectors  as  housing,  employment, 
human resources, diversification of energy sources and 
health. Focus must also be placed on aligning teaching 
and vocational training with market needs, which will 
contribute  to  controlling  unemployment  and  allowing 
youth to showcase their talents. In fact, unemployment 
in our societies stems less from inadequate employment 
opportunities than from the gap between the numbers 
of those trained and the actual needs of the job market.
With  respect  to  security,  we  are  currently  facing 
many dangers, including the multiplication of hot spots, 
terrorism,  organized  crime  and  trafficking  in  drugs, 
arms and people — not only in Africa, but throughout 
the world. All those dangers have a cross-border nature. 
Some African regions have been particularly vulnerable 
due  to  the  weakness  of  their  democratic  practice,  the 
spread of ethnic conflicts, economic crises with their 
attendant social tensions, and the precarious situation 
14-54711
21/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
of their educational systems, which exercerbates youth 
unemployment and deviation.
In  order  to  address  such  challenges,  the  African 
Union has established efficient mechanisms that rely on 
the African peace and security architecture, including 
the  Peace  and  Security  Council  and  the  African 
Capacity  for  Immediate  Response  to  Crises.  Despite 
those  efforts  and  achievements,  the  fight  against 
terrorism  remains  an  international  responsibility  that 
calls  for  close  cooperation  among  all  members  of  the 
international  community.  It  is  clear  that  no  country 
alone can eradicate the phenomenon of terrorism.
The  fruitful  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations Security Council and the African Council for 
Peace  and  Security  has  proved  effective  in  resolving 
many of the armed conflicts on our continent. Despite 
such  efforts,  however,  the  resolution  of  the  situation 
in Somalia remains complex. Similarly, the situations 
in  Libya,  northern  Nigeria  and  Central  Africa  are 
cause  for  genuine  concern.  In  Libya,  unfortunately, 
the  situation  continues  to  deteriorate,  foreshadowing 
a  civil  war  that  could  split  the  country  apart,  driving 
its people into exile and threatening to spill over into 
neighbouring  countries.  The  international  community 
must intercede to help the Libyans reach a peaceful and 
consensual solution that guarantees that country’s unity 
and  stability.  In  northern  Nigeria,  the  Boko  Haram 
movement continues to murder innocent people, kidnap 
women and destroy entire villages. Africa and the rest 
of  the  international  community  must  join  forces  and 
take  decisive  action  to  eliminate  that  terrorist  group, 
which threatens the whole region.
In  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  efforts  of 
the  African  peacekeeping  force,  with  the  support  of 
friendly forces, helped stop the massacres and prevented 
the  conflict  from  evolving  into  a  full-fledged  civil 
war. However, persistent tension between the factions 
requires us to encourage Central African stakeholders 
to  use  this  stage  of  the  transition  build  trust  and  to 
overcome  the  remaining  obstacles  to  that  country’s 
peace and stability.
Such  situations  should  not  lead  us  to  overlook 
the  peacebuilding  progress  that  has  been  achieved  in 
many conflict regions. In that regard, we commend and 
welcome  the  advances  registered  in  the  region  of  the 
Great Lakes, in northern Mali and in the Republic of 
South Sudan.
The Sahel was one of the first African regions to 
experience the phenomenon of terrorism. But thanks to 
the close security cooperation among the countries of the 
region and to international solidarity, the terrorists were 
repelled and the activities of illegal trafficking networks 
were  paralysed.  In  North  Mali,  too,  Africans  have 
robustly  addressed  a  difficult  situation.  Thus,  several 
countries  of  the  continent,  along  with  international 
friendly  forces,  deterred  terrorist  groups.  The  risk  of 
terrorism  was  eliminated  from  key  areas  from  which 
criminal  terrorist  operations  had  been  launched.  The 
French intervention was decisive and timely. Likewise, 
history will remember the great sacrifices that continue 
to be made by the brave soldiers of Chad.
However,  the  region  is  still  exposed  to  security 
risks,  which  for  the  moment  are  relatively  contained. 
The  eradication  of  terrorism  in  the  Sahel  region 
constitutes  a  major  challenge  additional  to  those 
impeding development and poverty reduction. There is 
a close correlation between development and security, 
because  it  is  impossible  to  conceive  of  sustainable 
development  without  security,  or  security  without 
integrated development.
In  that  regard,  the  countries  of  the  region  are 
aware of the need, on the one hand, to create a regional 
framework  to  coordinate  development  efforts  and,  on 
the other, to combat the dangers of terrorism and cross-
border  crime.  Therefore,  the  Group  of  Five  countries 
of  the  Sahel  was  created  at  the  summit  meeting  of 
member  States  held  in  Nouakchott  in  February.  The 
international  community  is  invited  to  join  Africans 
in  their  hopes  and  legitimate  aspirations  for  peace, 
security and sustainable development.
The  conflict  in  the  Middle  East,  which  escalates 
from  time  to  time,  with  no  hope  of  achieving  a  clear 
and  definite  solution  despite  multiple  Arab  and 
international initiatives, constitutes an ongoing danger 
to  world  peace.  The  parties  in  conflict  must  agree  to 
make  sacrifices,  even  painful  ones.  The  international 
community must also ramp up pressure and act swiftly 
to  find  a  fair  solution  to  the  conflict  on  the  basis  of 
relevant international resolutions, including those that 
guarantee  the  Palestinian  people  the  establishment  of 
an  independent  State,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its 
capital.
Furthermore,  the  dangerous  situations  in  Syria 
and  Iraq  that  have  been  created  by  the  expansion 
of  terrorism  are  causes  of  grave  concern  for  the 
international  community.  We  welcome  the  recent 
measures taken to combat terrorist groups in Iraq, and 
we invite the parties to the Syrian conflict to renounce 
22/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
violence  and  engage  in  negotiations  to  avoid  further 
destruction to their country. The crisis in Ukraine must 
likewise be resolved peacefully and quickly in order to 
preserve global peace and to prevent the situation from 
generating tensions between the major Powers.
The  African  continent  seeks  to  strengthen  its 
presence  in  international  forums  and  institutions, 
commensurate with its size and role, in order to make 
them  more  representative  of  its  peoples  and  nations. 
Although  the  General  Assembly  is  an  international 
institution  in  which  all  countries  are  represented 
equally, the status of permanent member of the Security 
Council remains the monopoly of a restricted number 
of  countries.  That  privilege,  which  dates  back  to  the 
Second World War of the last century, no longer reflects 
international geopolitical reality and does not take into 
account  the  profound  transformations  that  have  taken 
place throughout the world. Today, Africa occupies an 
important position in the world and plays a distinctive 
role  within  the  international  community,  making  it  a 
candidate for permanent representation on the Security 
Council.  It  is  therefore  critical  to  engage  as  soon  as 
possible in negotiations on the rules for expanding both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  representation  on  the 
Security Council.
The  establishment  of  justice  at  the  international 
level also entails reform of the world economic system 
to  make  it  more  equitable  through  greater  promotion 
of the role of the United Nations in efforts to increase 
transparency, improve regulation of the financial system 
and  promote  the  investment  necessary  to  sustainable 
development.
Finally,  I  offer  my  sincere  thanks  for  the  efforts 
made to ensure the success of this session. Attaining the 
lofty aims for which the United Nations was established 
remains dependent on the freedom of the world’s people 
to  exercise  their  right  to  development,  advancement 
and progress so that all humankind may live in dignity, 
freedom, justice and equality.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Islamic Republic of 
Mauritania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Her Excellency Ms. Michelle Bachelet 
Jeria, President of the Republic of Chile
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chile.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of 
the Republic of Chile, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.
President  Bachelet  Jeria  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the end of the twentieth century, we imagined that the 
twenty-first century would bring greater progress and 
peace for all and that it would be free of the tragedies 
that  had  convulsed  the  world.  Indeed,  we  have  seen 
hopeful signs of development in many dimensions. Yet 
paradoxically,  we  see  all  around  us  the  symptoms  of 
crises  that,  while  they  may  be  more  localized,  have 
more  devastating  humanitarian  consequences.  These 
challenges include regional wars, ethnic and religious 
tensions, humanitarian crises, the trampling of human 
rights, the break-up of several States, climate change, 
deepening  inequality,  cross-border  terrorism  and  the 
spread  of  terrible  pandemics  such  as  Ebola,  all  of 
which require a firm, urgent response on the part of the 
international community.
That  instability,  along  with  a  lack  of  social 
cohesion,  poses  a  threat  to  peace,  security,  human 
rights,  development  and  democracy.  This  affects  not 
only countries or States, but the actual men and women 
who inhabit them. In other words, it is a threat to all we 
believe in — everything that constitutes the basis of the 
agreement  on  which  the  United  Nations  was  founded 
and  everything  that  is  our  raison  d’être  as  leaders  of 
our societies. That is why the United Nations remains 
irreplaceable  as  an  institution  for  addressing  global 
challenges  and  for  agreeing  on  the  actions  needed  to 
resolve  them,  even  if  some  of  those  actions  have  not 
produced the desired results.
The Security Council has contributed to addressing 
and  preventing  crises.  One  response  has  been  the 
design of robust peacekeeping operations with a strong 
emphasis  on  the  protection  of  civilians.  However,  on 
many  occasions  Council  members  have  been  unable 
to  act  with  unity.  That  undoubtedly  undermines  the 
14-54711
23/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
legitimacy  and  credibility  of  the  principal  organ 
responsible for international peace and security.
This year has seen a significant rise in the number 
of humanitarian crises around the world, in particular 
in  the  number  of  complex  emergencies  with  regional 
impacts that indirectly affect already-fragile States. We 
are concerned about the 3 million refugees created by 
the crisis in Syria; about the actions of terrorist groups 
such as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant; about the 
cruel violence that the world has witnessed in Gaza. We 
express our solidarity with the victims and categorically 
condemn  the  use  of  violence.  Any  action  in  this  area 
must be taken within the context of international law. 
We  believe  that  the  international  community  should 
seek  political  solutions  and  inclusive  negotiations 
to  facilitate  action  by  the  Security  Council.  For  our 
part,  we  are  prepared  to  increase  our  humanitarian 
commitments  and  shall  consider  accepting  refugees 
from those conflict zones.
We  are  also  concerned  about  the  situation  in 
Ukraine.  Here  the  position  of  Chile  is  clear.  We 
believe  that  the  principle  of  territorial  integrity  must 
be  respected  and  that,  at  the  same  time,  the  rights  of 
minorities must be protected. We believe that a solution 
can  be  found  to  prevent  an  escalation  of  violence, 
sanctions and tensions that may well spread throughout 
the planet.
Generally speaking, we wish to reaffirm our belief 
in  the  need  to  respect  the  integrity  of  State  borders. 
International  law  is  clear  and  unambiguous.  Any 
action  designed  to  affect  existing  boundary  treaties 
creates room for legal uncertainty and could jeopardize 
international  peace  and  stability.  In  that  context,  we 
continue to believe that reform of the Security Council 
is a pending issue requiring political decision and swift 
action. We reiterate our support for the enlargement of 
the Council and for the aspirations of Germany, Brazil, 
Japan  and  India  to  become  permanent  members.  In 
addition, Chile favours a serious debate on the French 
proposal to limit the right to veto in the case of crimes 
involving the responsibility to protect.
We acknowledge the Secretary-General’s efforts to 
achieve  a  more  inclusive  global  governance  in  which 
the post-2015 development agenda and the sustainable 
development goals occupy a central place and require 
the  political  support  of  Governments  and  societies  in 
all  regions.  The  post-2015  process  provides  a  great 
opportunity  to  tackle  the  social  and  development 
issues  common  to  all  societies  and  regions,  using 
a  comprehensive  approach, 
through  specific  and 
measurable goals. Women and peace and security is an 
item  on  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  to  which 
Chile,  as  a  member  of  the  Council,  attaches  priority. 
Since the adoption of resolution 1325 (2000), the world 
has made progress in the protection of women and girls 
in armed conflicts.
Our  efforts  to  empower  women  and  promote 
initiatives to combat violence against women and girls 
have been tireless. Thanks to those efforts, today women 
are  at  the  centre  of  the  new  development  and  peace 
architecture.  We  believe  that  the  full  incorporation 
of  women  in  every  area  of  society  —  including  the 
economy, politics, and culture  — is a prerequisite for 
their  full  development.  It,  therefore,  should  also  be  a 
priority in the post-2015 development agenda, as should 
early childhood development, which is something that 
has to do with the future of our societies.
I  come 
from  Latin  America,  a 
region  of 
middle-income  countries  that  has  its  own  dreams, 
challenges and tasks. For us, sustainable development, 
security,  the  quality  of  governance  and,  above  all, 
inequality  and  social  cohesion  are  the  most  pressing 
problems.  We  want  those  challenges  to  appear  in  the 
post-2015 development agenda, which must be inclusive 
and reflect the situation in all regions of the world.
towards 
We  believe  that  inequality  is  one  of  the  greatest 
threats  to  countries’  development  and  international 
security.  It  fosters  social  unrest  and  prevents  us  all 
from  moving 
inclusive  development  and 
ending  exclusion  and  poverty,  which  in  turn  can  lead 
to  resentment  and  violence.  Therefore,  overcoming 
inequality, with its many faces, must occupy a central 
place among the post-2015 development goals. We also 
believe that the United Nations system should have the 
tools  for  measuring  specific  progress  in  a  universal 
agenda to combat inequality.
Chile  is  dealing  with  the  challenge  of  inequality 
decisively and over the long term. Today in Chile, there 
is  a  common  belief  in  the  need  for  change —  change 
specifically  designed  to  substantially  improve  equity 
and inclusion. Having made great progress, Chile would 
like to consolidate and move ahead but recognizes that a 
society that has undergone profound and rapid changes 
faces new challenges.
Public  opinion  and  political  evolution  tell  us  that 
the  time  has  come  to  take  meaningful  steps  through 
24/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
substantive  reforms  providing 
the  essential  basis 
for  moving  towards  a  more  dynamic,  inclusive  and 
equitable  development.  That  is  a  basic  condition  for 
moving towards a better society for all. To that end, we 
have  recently  adopted  a  tax  reform  to  ensure  greater 
equity, fiscal sustainability and the resources necessary 
to  carry  out  an  education  reform  that  will  ensure  a 
quality education, free of charge, and opportunities for 
all. Chile will not achieve development while dragging 
the  burden  of  inequality.  We  all  know  that,  which  is 
why the tax reform has received cross-cutting support.
We  are  also  introducing  long-awaited  political 
reforms  to  enhance  our  democracy  and  institutional 
legitimacy.  We  have  already  adopted  a  law  allowing 
Chileans residing abroad to vote. Progress is being made 
on the reform to alter the electoral system by eliminating 
the existing bias and motivating citizens to participate, 
since now every vote will count. And we want to move 
towards  a  new  Constitution  with  fully  democratic 
foundations  and  content.  We  launched  a  productivity 
and growth agenda to stimulate the economy, promote 
sustainable  development  and  create  decent  jobs,  as  a 
basic prerequisite for achieving a lasting reduction in 
inequality and enhancing opportunities. Ultimately, we 
want to broaden the scope of rights to bring them into 
line with our enhanced capability as a country.
Climate  change  exacerbates 
inequalities  and 
intensifies  threats.  There  is  a  collective  duty  to  act, 
and  Chile  is  convinced  that  Latin  America  has  a  big 
contribution  to  make  in  this  debate.  Climate  change 
aggravates  inequalities  because  it  has  the  greatest 
impact on the most vulnerable. Chile has only a marginal 
effect on the problem, since it accounts for only 0.25 per 
cent of carbon emissions, but it undoubtedly suffers the 
consequences  of  climate  change,  as  do  many  others. 
Therefore,  we  want  to  be  part  of  the  solution.  Since 
we  understand  that  this  entails  a  global  commitment, 
differentiated  actions  and  binding  obligations,  we 
voluntarily made a commitment to reduce our emissions 
by 20 per cent by 2020. Several other Latin American 
countries  have  made  similar  voluntary  commitments. 
We should like to propose here that there be some type 
of  accountability,  which  would  facilitate  compliance 
and would help to set an example for the countries that 
are lagging behind.
The  Organization  must  ensure  the  efficiency  and 
consistency  of  multilateralism  as  a  special  forum 
for  tackling  the  major  global  issues  in  an  inclusive 
manner, creating international regimes and promoting 
cooperation  arrangements  in  priority  areas  for  our 
peoples.  Our  country 
trusts  multilateralism,  and 
we  believe  that  participating  in  the  system  involves 
both  rights  and  responsibilities.  Because  we  want  to 
contribute to the solution of global problems, we are a 
member of the Security Council and the Human Rights 
Council,  we  aspire  to  membership  in  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  and  we  are  contributing  to 
peacekeeping operations, including the United Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti. That Mission, in which 
a number of Latin American countries are engaged, is 
a tangible action of solidarity to support the democratic 
consolidation of a sister country.
We believe, therefore, that it is a political imperative 
to  strengthen  multilateralism  in  three  fundamental 
ways. The first is by enhancing the Secretary-General’s 
ability to take initiatives. In the context of the functions 
envisaged  in  the  Charter,  it  is  essential  to  continue 
support  for  the  political  leadership  of  the  Secretary-
General to take preventive action and respond to urgent 
situations  that  jeopardize  the  dignity  of  people  and 
international peace and security.
The second relates to fieldwork. The ability of the 
system to take action in the field is a basic prerequisite 
in order for the Organization to be relevant to people’s 
demands  and  real  problems.  As  the  former  Executive 
Director of UN-Women, I had the privilege of seeing the 
conviction, solidarity and dedication with which United 
Nations staff help to promote the ideals, principles and 
mandates of the system.
The  third  area  of  focus  is  development  and 
cooperation.  The  process  of  constructing  a  post-
2015  development  agenda  requires  renewed  efforts  to 
provide official development assistance and to promote 
innovative 
encouraging 
partnerships  between  countries,  international  bodies, 
civil society and the private sector.
financing  mechanisms, 
Chile  is  interested  in  a  greater  coordination  of 
initiatives  and  instruments  to  facilitate  South-South 
cooperation  between  middle-income  countries  while 
seeking out ways in which their essential contribution 
can  be  made  effective.  I  would  also  like  to  note  that 
in Chile we have enacted legal provisions to open our 
economy fully to imports from the 48 least developed 
countries, without duties or quotas.
I would like to conclude by reiterating the irrevocable 
commitments  made  by  Chile’s  successive  democratic 
Governments to the work of the United Nations. Those 
14-54711
25/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
commitments reflect universal principles and values, as 
they promote the protection, dignity and fundamental 
rights  of  all  individuals  and  contribute  to  crisis 
prevention,  dialogue,  reconciliation  and  post-conflict 
management.  Our  convictions  and  efforts  will  always 
be  aimed  at  enhancing  the  legitimacy  of  collective 
action  to  meet  people’s  concerns  and  demands.  We 
believe  that,  with  an  effective  and  real  effort  on  the 
part  of  the  international  community,  we  will  be  able 
to  deal  successfully  with  exceptional  crises  and,  first 
and foremost, build a world in which all inhabitants live 
together in peace and dignity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chile 
for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Park Geun-Hye, President of the 
Republic of Korea
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Korea.
Ms.  Park  Geun-Hye,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Park  Geun-Hye,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  and  to  invite  her  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Park  Geun-Hye  (spoke  in  Korean; 
interpretation provided by the delegation): Let me start 
by  congratulating  you,  Mr.  Kutesa,  on  your  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session.  I  am  confident  that  the  Assembly  will 
make  meaningful  progress  during  this  session  under 
your  able  leadership.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
tireless efforts to tackle the numerous crises breaking 
out around the globe.
Next year marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
founding of the United Nations. I am prompted by the 
state of our world today to reflect once again upon the 
noble  dreams  and  ideals  that  inspired  the  founders  of 
the United Nations 70 years ago. The founders aspired 
to build a new world that places people at the centre, as 
the opening words of the Charter of the United Nations, 
“We the peoples”, remind us. Throughout the ensuing 
decades of the Cold War and the post-Cold-War era, the 
United Nations tackled countless crises, striving, as it 
did so, to fulfil its purpose of maintaining international 
peace,  promoting  development  and  upholding  human 
rights.
Yet our world continues to be beset by widespread 
disputes  and  conflicts,  both  large  and  small,  despite 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations.  The  civil  conflicts 
raging on in Syria, Libya and South Sudan are causing 
the  deaths  of  untold  numbers  of  innocent  women  and 
children. In Iraq and surrounding areas, the activities 
of  foreign  terrorist  fighters  are  posing  new  threats  to 
peace  internationally,  not  to  mention  in  the  Middle 
East. The fragile ceasefires in Gaza and Ukraine call 
for more fundamental and lasting solutions. The recent 
Ebola  outbreak  in  Africa,  widespread  poverty  and 
natural  disasters  underscore  the  scope  of  the  threat 
from multiple challenges.
In  order  to  push  back  against  those  challenges 
to  peace  and  development,  we  need  to  return  to  the  
founding spirit of the United Nations by putting people 
first and promotinge cooperation among the Members 
of  the  family  of  nations.  To  meet  the  aspirations  of 
the  international  community  for  justice  and  common 
prosperity,  the  United  Nations  needs  to  continue  to 
play a central role in arranging more rapid and efficient 
responses.
The Republic of Korea was founded in 1948 with the 
blessing of the United Nations. It was able to safeguard 
freedom  and  democracy  during  the  Korean  war  that 
broke  out  two  years  later,  again  with  the  help  of  the 
United Nations. Once a country that barely managed to 
survive  with  United  Nations  assistance,  the  Republic 
of  Korea  is  today  a  nation  that  has  achieved  both  an 
advanced market economy and democracy. In the course 
of that journey, the Republic of Korea came to espouse 
the  values  upheld  by  the  United  Nations  —  peace, 
development and human rights — as its own vision.
Given  its  history,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  no 
stranger  to  the  agonies  of  the  civil  wars,  aggression, 
poverty and humanitarian disasters that are unfolding 
around  the  world.  That  is  why  the  Republic  of  Korea 
is  actively  working  to  serve  international  peace  and 
promote  human  rights  and  sustainable  development 
as a member of the three major Councils of the United 
Nations:  the  Security  Council,  the  Human  Rights 
Council and the Economic and Social Council.
26/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
The  developments  unfolding  in  the  Middle  East, 
Eurasia,  and  North-East  Asia  are  a  far  cry  from  the 
peaceful  and  just  world  that  was  envisioned  by  the 
United  Nations  founders.  Overcoming  the  instability 
and chaos we see today must start with our adherence 
to the fundamental order and norms of the international 
community,  namely,  respect  for  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity; refraining from the threat or use of 
force in violation of the Charter; and respect for human 
rights and humanitarian values.
We  need 
to  prevent 
the  development  and 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  such  as 
nuclear  weapons,  which  pose  a  fundamental  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome the elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons 
through the joint efforts of the United Nations and the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
and the progress being made in addressing the Iranian 
nuclear issue.
By the same token, I would underline the urgency 
of resolving the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
nuclear issue, which presents the single greatest threat 
to  peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  in  North-East 
Asia.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is 
the  only  country  to  have  conducted  a  nuclear  test  in 
the  twenty-first  century.  Its  nuclear  programme  not 
only  is  a  serious  threat  to  international  peace,  but 
also  amounts  to  a  total  rejection  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which  is  the 
backbone  of 
the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
must make the decision to give up its nuclear weapons. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  should 
follow  in  the  footsteps  of  other  countries  that  have 
abandoned  their  nuclear  weapons  in  favour  of  reform 
and opening-up, and it must choose a different path that 
supports  its  economic  development  and  improves  the 
lives  of  its  people.  Should  it  do  this,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, together with the international community, will 
provide our strong support for developing the economy 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
In addition to that serious challenge on the Korean 
Peninsula,  North-East  Asia  is  undergoing  a  difficult 
transition.  There  are  growing  tensions  in  the  region 
surrounding  issues  of  history,  territory  and  maritime 
security.  Yet,  unlike  other  regions,  North-East  Asia 
lacks  a  mechanism  for  dealing  with  those  problems 
through  multilateral  consultations.  It  is  against  that 
backdrop  that  I  am  seeking  to  advance  a  North-East 
Asia  peace  and  cooperation  initiative  that  is  aimed 
at  building  an  order  of  trust  and  cooperation  in  the 
region. In my view, building up habits of cooperation in 
practical areas, such as climate action, disaster relief, 
nuclear  safety  and  tackling  transnational  crime,  can 
materialize  into  a  multilateral  process  of  cooperation 
along the lines of what we see in Europe.
In  that  context,  I  have  also  proposed  creating  a 
North-East  Asia  nuclear  safety  consultative  body  to 
discuss nuclear safety issues, a topic of shared interest 
for  the  countries  in  the  region.  At  the  same  time,  we 
are  reaching  beyond  North-East  Asia  and  seeking  to 
build  transportation  and  energy  networks  across  an 
economically  interdependent  Eurasia,  which  would 
help  strengthen  political  trust  and  security  across  the 
continent.
This  year  marks  20  years  since  the  Rwandan 
genocide, the world’s greatest humanitarian tragedy of 
the late twentieth century. The international community 
had  pledged  “never  again”  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
genocides in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda in the 
1990s. Yet, we are witnessing today a different type of 
humanitarian disaster unfolding in Syria and Iraq. The 
Republic of Korea is actively participating in the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  to  prevent  such  humanitarian 
tragedies.  The  Republic  of  Korea  strongly  supports 
United Nations policies to protect human rights, such 
as  the  Rights  Up  Front  initiative  and  the  Secretary-
General’s “open gate” policy. Even as we speak, Korean 
troops are taking part in United Nations peacekeeping 
missions  in  South  Sudan  and  Lebanon,  helping  with 
peacebuilding,  reconstruction  and  the  protection  of 
civilians and human rights.
The  Republic  of  Korea  also  attaches  great 
importance to preventing human suffering, particularly 
of  women  and  children,  who  are  most  vulnerable, 
in  conflict  situations.  In  that  context,  during  its 
presidency  of  the  Security  Council  in  February  2013, 
Korea presided over an open debate (see S/PV.6917) on 
the protection of civilians in armed conflict and helped 
raise global awareness. Korea is also participating in and 
championing the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative. 
Sexual violence against women during armed conflicts 
is a clear violation of human rights and humanitarian 
norms, regardless of how long ago or where it occurred.
The  human  rights  situation  in  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  also  the  subject  of 
profound  interest  and  concern  for  the  international 
14-54711
27/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
community.  In  March,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
adopted recommendations proposed by the Commission 
of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. The Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  and  the  international  community  should 
take  the  necessary  measures  to  implement  those 
recommendations.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Nations 
office that will soon be set up in the Republic of Korea 
to  investigate  human  rights  abuses  in  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea is expected to reinforce such 
efforts.  The  international  community  should  also  pay 
greater attention to the human rights situation of North 
Korean defectors. The relevant United Nations agencies 
and  countries  should  provide  the  necessary  support 
so  that  defectors  can  freely  choose  their  resettlement 
destination.
The  challenges  facing  humankind  today,  such  as 
absolute poverty and climate change, can be addressed 
only through a concerted international response, given 
their complexity and intertwined character. Less than 
500 days remain until the target date of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  was  launched  with  the 
aim  of  eradicating  absolute  poverty  and  increasing 
social  and  economic  opportunities.  The  Republic  of 
Korea  is  ready,  by  harnessing  our  unique  historical 
experience, to play a bridging role between developed 
and developing countries as the post-2015 development 
goals are set. In that regard, the decision was made as 
a  result  of  the  Busan  Partnership  agreement,  adopted 
at the Ministerial Meeting in April in Mexico, to turn 
the  Global  Partnership  for  Effective  Development 
Cooperation 
an 
international  development 
cooperative mechanism.
into 
The  Republic  of  Korea  will  seek  to  enhance  the 
quality  of  its  overseas  assistance.  We  will  continue 
to  share  our  development  experience,  by  globally 
promoting  the  Saemaul  movement  model,  which  was 
conducive to eradicating rural poverty in Korea through 
the  spirit  of  diligence,  self-reliance  and  cooperation. 
Having  seen  the  power  of  education  in  propelling  its 
own  development,  the  Republic  of  Korea  strongly 
supports  and  is  championing  the  Secretary-General’s 
Global  Education  First  Initiative.  Korea  will  share  its 
lessons learned and provide substantive support to the 
United Nations initiatives on education, which is one of 
the main themes of the post-2015 development goals. To 
that end, Korea will host the World Education Forum 
in 2015 and make efforts to reach an agreement on the 
new education objectives for the next 15 years.
Climate  change  is  no  less  an  existential  threat 
to  humanity  than  the  question  of  war  and  peace.  At 
the  Climate  Summit  2014  held  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  yesterday,  23  September, 
leaders 
proclaimed their collective resolve to reach a consensus 
on the post-2020 new climate regime. Going forward, 
an agreement must be reached on a new climate regime 
by  the  2015  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris. As the host country of the Green Climate Fund 
(GCF) and the Green Growth Global Institute (GGGI), 
Korea is committed to supporting international efforts 
to  strengthen  developing  countries’  mitigation  and 
adaptation  capacities.  Above  all,  we  will  continue  to 
work for the full and early operationalization of the GCF 
and for the expansion of GGGI assistance to developing 
countries. Korea views the climate challenge not as a 
burden  but  as  an  opportunity  to  unleash  new  value, 
markets  and  jobs  through  technological  innovation. 
We are nurturing new energy industries. And we hope 
to share the fruits of our efforts with other developing 
countries.
The Korean people gained independence 69 years 
ago, but the subsequent division of the Korean peninsula 
precluded  its  membership  in  the  United  Nations  as  a 
single sovereign State. The two Koreas were admitted 
separately  as  Member  States  to  the  United  Nations 
in  1991.  Having  two  separate  seats  despite  a  single 
language,  culture  and  history  is  clearly  not  normal. 
This year marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the fall 
of  the  Berlin  Wall,  but  the  Korean  peninsula  remains 
stifled  by  a  wall  of  division.  Countless  separated 
families have been spending decades in agony, longing 
to  see  their  loved  ones.  Every  year,  many  leave  for  a 
place where they will never be able to meet their loved 
ones in person. I call on the international community to 
stand with us in tearing down the world’s last remaining 
wall of division.
Not  long  ago,  I  proposed  to  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea that we build corridors that 
can connect our environment, our livelihoods and our 
culture. In my view, a genuine community that can heal 
the  wounds  of  division  and  move  both  sides  forward 
together  will  come  about  only  when  people  from  the 
South and the North are able to live in natural harmony 
within a single ecosystem, when separated families are 
able to come together and ease their agony, and when 
culture is shared.
Today,  the  Korean  peninsula  is  divided  by  a 
4-kilometre  wide,  250-kilometre  long  demilitarized 
28/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
zone  (DMZ).  The  DMZ,  built  around  the  military 
demarcation  line  to  prevent  renewed  conflict,  has 
in  reality  ended  up  preventing  the  back-and-forth 
movement  of  people  for  some  60  years.  But  from  the 
stretches of the DMZ would emerge, in those decades, a 
treasure trove of nature’s wildlife. The DMZ ecosystem 
is a testament to the fact that the South and North are 
part  of  a  single  whole,  one  which  both  sides  should 
work together to restore. And so I hope to build inside 
the very symbol of our division a world ecopeace park 
that would begin to reconnect the Peninsula’s divided 
nature  and  divided  people.  If  we  can  sweep  away  the 
barbed-wire  fences  from  small  areas  inside  the  DMZ 
and  thereby  allow  people  from  both  sides  to  live  in 
natural harmony, such a park could emerge as a corridor 
of life and peace.
I  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  spearhead  these 
efforts.  Building  a  park  that  embodies  respect  for 
international standards and values, and doing so under 
United  Nations  auspices,  with  all  the  parties  to  the 
war on board — the two Koreas, the United States and 
China — would serve to ease tensions and promote the 
peaceful  reunification  of  the  two  Koreas.  A  unified 
Korea  would  be  a  starting  point  for  a  world  without 
nuclear  weapons,  offer  a  fundamental  solution  to  the 
North  Korean  human  rights  issue  and  help  unlock  a 
stable  and  cooperative  North-East  Asia.  Just  as  the 
unification of Germany laid the ground for a new Europe 
by integrating that continent, a unified Korea could set 
in motion a new North-East Asia. I am confident that a 
peacefully reunified Korean peninsula will contribute 
to realizing the founding purposes and values espoused 
by the United Nations.
Mrs.  Baaro  (Kiribati),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The  founders  of  the  United  Nations  were  not 
deterred by the heat of war from looking to the future and 
planning for a peaceful post-war world. The Republic 
of  Korea  is  committed  to  a  vision  of  diplomacy  that 
seeks  lasting  peace  and  unification  on  the  peninsula 
and  peace  and  development  in  North-East  Asia  and 
contributes to building a happier world. The Republic 
of Korea will do its part in that noble undertaking to 
ensure that the United Nations continues to safeguard 
our common values and cements its place at the centre 
of global governance.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Korea for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Park  Geun-hye,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Amir of the State of Qatar
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Amir of the Republic of Qatar.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  We  wish  him 
success in his mission. I would also like to thank His 
Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe  for  his  work  during  his 
presidency.  And  I  thank  His  Excellency  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  efforts  to  promote  and 
operationalize the role of the United Nations.
The  start  of  this  year’s  session  comes  at  a  time 
when  recent  international  developments  are  affecting 
the  security  and  safety  of  all  humankind.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  essential  that  the  United  Nations  live  up 
to  its  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  through  all  the  mechanisms  and  means 
provided  for  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
explore every possible way of preventing conflicts and 
addressing  their  root  causes,  and  work  to  settle  them 
by  peaceful  means.  We  cannot  achieve  international 
peace  and  security  without  a  dialogue  based  on  the 
principle of equality and compliance with international 
law, implementation of the resolutions of international 
legality and respect for the principles of human rights 
and the rights of peoples.
The  Middle  East  went  through  an  extremely 
dangerous  phase  during 
the  recent  war  on  our 
Palestinian  brothers.  There  are  no  guarantees  that  it 
will not recur. Israel continues to persist in its policies 
of occupation and to defy the will of the international 
community by confiscating land in the West Bank and 
building  settlements  in  an  effort  to  perpetuate  that 
occupation.  Humankind  was  shocked  by  the  tragic 
14-54711
29/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
scenes and unprecedented images of destruction during 
the  latest  round  of  aggression  targeting  civilians  in 
Gaza. Babies were killed in their mothers’ arms, almost 
half a million Palestinians were displaced and the Gaza 
Strip was virtually destroyed when people had hardly 
managed  to  rebuild  after  the  destruction  inflicted  on 
Gaza  during  the  previous  war.  Under  international 
law and international humanitarian law, such acts are 
defined  as  crimes  against  humanity.  The  arrogance 
of  power  will  not  prevail  over  the  resistance  of  the 
Palestinian people. I salute their steadfast resistance in 
the face of the occupation in Gaza and their insistence 
on  regaining  their  legitimate  rights.  May  the  souls  of 
the Palestinian martyrs rest in peace.
Israel must realize that it can achieve security for 
its people only through peace, and that the occupation 
is bound to end. The damage caused by Israel’s repeated 
acts  of  aggression  in  the  Gaza  Strip  in  recent  years, 
the unjust blockade imposed on it and the destruction 
wreaked  on  its  infrastructure  make  it  incumbent 
on  the  international  community  to  compel  Israel  to 
implement internationally agreed-on resolutions, fulfil 
its  obligations  and  hasten  to  remove  every  obstacle 
to  lifting  the  blockade  and  launching  the  process  of 
reconstructionn. The State of Qatar will spare no effort 
to provide assistance for the reconstruction of the Gaza 
Strip, and we urge every country to follow suit.
The  international  community’s  response  to  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  freedom 
and  national  independence  is  vital  to  affirming  the 
justice  of  international  legality,  especially  since  the 
question  of  Palestine  is  the  last  remaining  issue  on 
the decolonization agenda. In that context, temporary 
solutions and piecemeal settlements have proved useless 
and unacceptable. Israel’s intransigence compels us to 
resort  to  the  United  Nations  as  a  framework  that  can 
accommodate all parties. 
The  Security  Council  should  shoulder  its  moral 
and  legal  responsibilities  by  upholding  the  principles 
of international legality and human rights and avoiding 
the  selectivity  that  has  characterized  its  approach  to 
this issue in recent times. It should adopt a resolution, 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, 
forcing Israel to end its occupation of the lands it seized 
in 1967 and to implement the two-State solution agreed 
on by the international community, according to a clear 
and time-bound political plan, within the framework of 
peace negotiations leading to a permanent settlement of 
the Palestinian question through a two-State solution, 
in  accordance  with  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the 
relevant  internationally  legitimate  resolutions.  The 
world  is  duty-bound  to  persuade  the  Palestinians  that 
those  who  killed  their  children  in  Gaza  will  not  be 
received  in  diplomatic  forums  as  if  they  had  carried 
out  a  civilized  action  because  they  had  bombed 
Palestinians from the air without staining their hands 
with Palestinian blood.
The tragedy of the Syrian people, now in its fourth 
year, represents one of the major challenges in the Middle 
East. This humanitarian disaster has been exacerbated 
and is becoming increasingly dangerous by the lack of 
a clear vision for a solution to the crisis, continued acts 
of murder and destruction, violations of human rights, 
the  terrible  human  suffering  and  the  displacement 
of  nearly  half  of  the  Syrian  people.  This  makes  it 
incumbent  on  the  international  community  to  strive 
to end the bloodshed and the systematic destruction of 
Syria  by  a  regime  that  forces  its  people  to  choose 
between accepting its presence or burning down their 
country.
We have already warned that the continuation of the 
regime’s policy of terrorism, genocide and displacement, 
as well as the failure to provide support to the Syrian 
revolution  when  it  was  still  a  civilian  revolution 
demanding  freedom  and  dignity,  would  push  many 
Syrians  to  opt  for  self-defence.  We  have  also  warned 
the international community from the outset that if no 
action were taken about the situation in Syria, we would 
reach the point at which we now find ourselves. When 
the Syrian people defended themselves with weapons, 
we advocated providing them with support before the 
regime  destroyed  their  country  and  before  extremist 
organizations arose and flourished. No red lines were 
drawn  to  stop  the  actions  of  the  Syrian  regime.  The 
world  remained  silent  even  when  Syrian  children  and 
women  were  killed  with  chemical  weapons  and  when 
its populated neighbourhoods were levelled with barrel 
bombs. Eventually, the Syrian people found themselves 
stuck between the grip of terrorism of the regime and 
that  of  extremist  forces  that  thrived  in  the  swamp  of 
violence. The war of genocide waged and the deliberate 
displacement  carried  out  by  the  regime  remain  major 
crimes.
Confronted  by  this  grim  reality,  the  international 
community needs to provide all aspects of humanitarian 
aid to the Syrian people inside and outside their areas 
of refuge. We reiterate our call on the Security Council 
to  promptly  shoulder  its  legal  and  humanitarian 
30/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
responsibilities.  It  must  support  the  Syrian  people 
against  the  two  dangers  posed  by  the  terrorism  and 
crimes of genocide of the regime, and by the terrorist 
forces  that  have  taken  advantage  of  the  prevailing 
misery, bitterness and the absence of the State and the 
international community. The first danger has begotten 
the second.
Many areas of the world suffer from the terrorism 
being perpetrated under different pretexts and slogans 
that threaten the security and stability of the world and 
hamper the achievement of the desired development. No 
civilization has been spared terrorism in the modern era. 
There is no doubt that the most affected communities 
are  those  in  which  this  evil  seed  had  grown.  This 
phenomenon  is  hostile  to  the  diversity  and  pluralism 
that  enrich  communities.  In  the  case  of  the  affected 
Arab and Islamic societies, terrorism affects innocent 
people,  impoverishes  our  societies  by  depriving  them 
of  humanitarian  and  religious  diversity,  muzzles  the 
real demands of the peoples, and offends religion with 
its superficial and apostatic interpretations.
Therefore we must all redouble our efforts to fight 
this  phenomenon  whatever  its  forms,  target  or  source 
might  be.  It  has  been  proved  beyond  any  doubt  that 
terrorism can be defeated only in its social environment. 
If  societies  are  to  stand  with  us  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism,  we  need  to  be  fair  and  not  push  them  to 
choose  between  terrorism  and  tyranny,  or  between 
terrorism and sectarian discrimination. We cannot win 
the war on terror if peoples are not satisfied that it is 
their  war  and  not  a  war  to  stabilize  a  regime  that  is 
oppressing them.
The Syrian people have suffered from tyranny and 
terrorism.  The  international  community  did  not  heed 
the cries for help of the Iraqi people, who have been the 
first victims of terrorism in Iraq. But those who fought 
terrorism  and  defeated  it  found  themselves  prone 
to  marginalization  and  abuse  by  terrorist  sectarian 
militias. It is therefore imperative to persuade the Iraqi 
people that they will not pay the a thousandfold price, 
and  that  when  they  defend  their  homeland  they  are 
merely  defending  their  rights,  dignity  and  freedoms, 
which  must  be  guaranteed.  This  is  what  the  majority 
of the Syrian people must be persuaded of after being 
soaked  in  the  blood  spilled  by  the  Syrian  regime  for 
daring to demand freedom and dignity.
In 
this  context, 
international  community 
needs to stand firmly by brotherly Iraq in confronting 
terrorism  and  ending 
its 
its  ordeal.  Preserving 
the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  the  diversity  of 
its  sects  can  be  achieved  only  by  defusing  sectarian 
conflict and achieving Iraqi reconciliation that lays the 
foundations for a society free from sectarian and ethnic 
conflicts, with the participation of all political forces, 
without exclusion.
In this context, the international community must 
also assist fraternal Libya in ending its current ordeal 
by  making  a  serious  effort  to  respect  the  will  of  the 
Libyan  people  and  meet  their  legitimate  aspirations 
for  security  and  stability  through  reconciliation  and 
the inclusion of all Libyan factions. From this rostrum, 
I call on all Libyan political forces to follow the path 
of national dialogue and to hammer out a formula for 
governance  that  meets  the  aspirations  of  the  Libyan 
people, who have sacrificed so much for their freedom.
On  this  occasion,  I  cannot  but  hail  the  nascent 
Tunisian experience, which augurs well for our future 
and owes its progress to the awareness and unity of the 
Tunisians  and  their  insistence  on  the  success  of  their 
experiment, despite continuous attempts by Powers that 
do not want pluralism to succeed in our region. Another 
successful  instance  of  the  peaceful  transfer  of  power 
has been seen in Yemen. We were encouraged by the 
outcome of the national dialogue under the auspices of 
the United Nations and with the support of the Security 
Council,  which  adopted  a  resolution  emphasizing 
commitment  to  the  process  and  condemning  those 
undermining its implementation.
But  it  would  seem  that  there  are  forces  who  are 
joining ranks in an attempt to thwart that experiment. 
Some oppose any change at all and would prefer to turn 
back  the  hands  of  the  clock;  others  prefer  sectarian 
conflict  and  sectarian  and  factional  interests  over 
justice  and  good  governance  for  Yemen.  Experience 
has shown that the use of violence and political action 
from a factional or sectarian perspective does not lead 
to a change towards a better system of governance, but 
poses a threat to the political entity itself.
We  call  on  our  Yemeni  brothers  to  preserve  the 
achievements  of  the  young  people  of  Yemen,  and 
those  of  national  dialogue  and  wisdom,  and  not  to 
abandon what they have accomplished. They must not 
allow  anyone  to  drag  them  onto  the  path  of  sectarian 
violence.  We  also  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  work 
on implementing its decisions on the achievements of 
the national dialogue, including rebuilding the army so 
that  it  can  defend  the  legitimate  institutions  and  stop 
the  phenomenon  of  armed  militias  in  Yemen.  It  has 
14-54711
31/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
become clear that such forces would lead to civil strife 
and derail the process of peaceful transition.
in  promoting 
Many  countries  of  the  world  still  suffer  from 
poverty  and  face  difficulties 
their 
development at the desired pace. This holds true for the 
new  post-2015  sustainable  development  goals,  which 
constitute  a  common  vision  for  future  generations.  I 
stress that the State of Qatar will pursue its efforts to 
build  a  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  in  order 
to  adopt  a  post-2015  development  plan  that  meets  the 
aspirations of the peoples of all countries and regional 
blocs.
I  would  also  like  to  note  that  the  State  of  Qatar 
has  made  progress  in  its  national  development  plans 
and strengthened its regional and global partnerships, 
as  confirmed  by  the  United  Nations  2014  Human 
Development  Index.  The  State  of  Qatar  has  been 
ranked thirty-first globally, and today we continue the 
implementation of the comprehensive national strategy 
for human development based on the Qatar Vision 2030, 
aimed at achieving development in various fields.
The  State  of  Qatar  will  pursue  its  active  policy 
of  providing  a  space  for  dialogue  in  areas  of  conflict 
and  for  mediation  between  the  various  parties,  as  we 
believe  in  solving  conflicts  by  peaceful  means  and 
have established a tradition of peaceful mediation. We 
will continue to provide a platform for dialogue among 
political currents, cultures and religions.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
the 
commitment  of  the  State  of  Qatar  to  work  with  the 
United  Nations  to  address  common  challenges  and 
achieve the goals we all seek.
to  reiterate 
like 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank His Highness the Amir of the 
State of Qatar for the statement he has just made.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the 
Republic of Armenia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia.
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President 
of the Republic of Armenia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Sargsyan 
in  Armenian; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  We  are 
meeting  at  a  symbolically  significant  time,  between 
the 100th anniversary of the First World War and the 
seventieth anniversary of the end of the Second World 
War. Seven decades ago, at the end of the Second World 
War,  the  United  Nations  was  established.  Its  mission 
was  to  form  a  new  environment  for  civilization  and 
culture in order to prevent the repetition of the previous 
tragic events of history.
The  year  2015 
is  of  particular  significance 
for  all  Armenians  around  the  world.  On  24  April, 
Armenians  around 
the  globe  will  commemorate 
the  100th  anniversary  of  the  most  tragic  page  in  the 
nation’s  history:  the  Armenian  genocide.  It  was  an 
unprecedented  crime,  the  objective  of  which  was  to 
eliminate  the  nation  and  deprive  it  of  its  homeland, 
and it remains an unhealed wound for every Armenian. 
The 1915 genocide was a crime against civilization and 
humanity, and its inadequate condemnation paved the 
way for similar crimes of mass murder in the future.
Addressing  the  Assembly  ahead  of  that  100th  
anniversary  of  the  Armenian  genocide  from  this 
rostrum,  which  I  would  call  the  podium  of  honour 
and  responsibility,  I  declare  our  profound  thanks 
to  Uruguay,  France,  Russia,  Italy,  Belgium, 
the 
Netherlands,  Switzerland,  Sweden,  Germany,  Poland, 
Lithuania,  Greece,  Slovakia,  Cyprus,  Lebanon, 
Argentina, Venezuela, Chile, Canada and the Holy See. 
We thank them for their recognition and condemnation 
of  the  Armenian  genocide,  regardless  of  the  form  it 
took  or  the  language  used  to  express  it.  I  thank  the 
United States of America, the European Union and all 
those  personalities,  State  bodies,  territorial  units  and 
organizations  in  many  countries  that  publicly  called 
things by their proper name. That is indeed extremely 
important, since denial is an integral part of the crime 
of genocide.
For  an  entire  century  now,  Armenians  around 
the  globe  and  the  entire  progressive  international 
community  have  been  waiting  for  Turkey  to  show 
courage  and  face  its  own  history  by  recognizing  the 
Armenian  genocide,  thus  relieving  future  generations 
of  the  heavy  burden  of  the  past.  Alas,  instead,  we 
32/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
continue to hear ambiguous and messages with ulterior 
motives, in which the victim and the slaughterer are set 
on equal footing and history is falsified.
Armenia  has  never  made  recognition  of  the 
Armenian  genocide  a  condition  for  the  normalization 
of bilateral relations with Turkey. In fact, Armenia was 
the  party  that  initiated  that  process  of  normalization, 
which in 2009 culminated in the signing of the Zurich 
protocols. However, those protocols have been shelved 
for  years  now,  awaiting  ratification  in  the  Turkish 
Parliament.  Ankara  has  declared  publicly  that  it  will 
ratify  the  protocols  only  if  Armenians  cede  Nagorny 
Karabakh  and  Artsakh  to  Azerbaijan.  In  Armenia 
and Artsakh, ordinary people often simply retort: “To 
hell  with  your  ratification.”  This  vernacular  phrase 
summarizes  the  age-old  struggle  of  the  entire  nation 
and  unequivocally  explains  to  those  who  attempt  to 
bargain  with  others’  homeland  that  the  motherland  is 
sacrosanct and they had better stay away from us with 
their bargain. It is in these circumstances that, currently, 
Yerevan is seriously considering the issue of recalling 
the Armenian-Turkish protocols from Parliament.
The  tragic  events  in  Syria  and  Iraq  that  we  are 
currently  witnessing  demonstrate  how  groups  whose 
creed  is  hatred  are  targeting  religious  and  national 
minorities. Two days ago, on Armenia’s independence 
day,  the  Saint  Martyrs  Armenian  Church  in  Dayr 
Al-Zour, Syria, dedicated to the memory of the victims 
of  the  Armenian  genocide,  was  mined  and  blown 
up  by  the  terrorists.  Such  barbarity  is  a  criminal 
demonstration  of  godlessness,  which  is  in  no  way  or 
shape related to any faith. The catastrophic situation in 
Syria  and  northern  Iraq  continues  to  deteriorate,  and 
today hundreds of thousands of people are directly in 
peril. Among them are tens of thousands of Armenians 
in Aleppo, Syria. It is one instance to consider in the 
context of our joint commitment to preventing crimes 
against  humanity.  Armenia  has  voiced  on  numerous 
occasions the need to defend the Armenian population 
of  Syria  and  the  Yazidi  population  of  north-western 
Iraq,  and  we  are  encouraged  by  the  unified  stance  of 
the international community in that regard.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security  is  the  essence  of  our  Organization.  In  recent 
years,  Armenia  has  consistently  consolidated 
its 
peacekeeping capabilities thereby preparing ourselves 
for more proactive engagement in that field. Armenian 
peacekeepers will very soon be dispatched to the south 
of Lebanon in the context of the United Nations Interim 
Force  in  Lebanon.  The  close  collaboration  we  enjoy 
with our Italian colleagues enabled our participation in 
that endeavour. I strongly believe that our servicemen 
will fulfil their mission with dignity and a high level of 
professionalism and will use the extensive experience 
they have garnered in the last decade in Kosovo, Iraq 
and Afghanistan.
It has been more than 20 years that our neighbouring 
State,  through  its  unconstructive  and  maximalist 
stance,  has  thwarted  the  international  community’s 
efforts aimed at the just and peaceful settlement of the 
Nagorno Karabakh conflict. The bellicose declarations 
and  various  threats  made  at  the  highest  level  in 
Azerbaijan have been completely tolerated on account 
of  the  international  community’s  failure  to  correctly 
assess them. The President of Azerbaijan has designated 
the entire Armenian nation as enemy number one, and 
what is considered in the rest of the world to be a crime, 
in Azerbaijan is considered to be a heroic act.
Despite  the  fact  that  each  conflict  is  unique, 
fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms,  including 
peoples’  right  to  freely  express  their  will  and  self-
determination,  continue  to  evolve  as  a  determinant 
in  their  resolution.  The  vote  held  a  few  days  ago  in 
Scotland once again proved that nowadays referendums 
are more and more widely perceived as a legal model 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  ethnic  conflicts.  It  was 
no coincidence that the right to decide one’s own fate 
through a referendum is at the core of the proposal put 
forward  by  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  for  the  settlement  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
conflict.
While  discussing  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict 
settlement,  I  must  address  the  four  Security  Council 
resolutions  —  resolutions  822  (1993),  853  (1993),  874 
(1993)  and  884  (1993)  —  adopted  during  the  war, 
which every so often are exploited by the Azerbaijani 
authorities in order to justify their obstructionist policy. 
Those four resolutions demand, as a matter of priority, 
the  unconditional  cessation  of  all  military  hostilities. 
Azerbaijan  has  failed  to  comply.  Azerbaijan’s  own 
non-compliance with the fundamental demands of the 
resolutions make their full implementation impossible. 
The  resolutions  call  on  the  parties  to  cease  their 
bombardments  and  air  strikes  targeting  the  peaceful 
civilian  population  and  to  refrain  from  violating 
the  principles  of 
law. 
However,  Azerbaijan  has  continued  its  indiscriminate 
international  humanitarian 
14-54711
33/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
bombardments  of  the  civilian  population.  Azerbaijan 
has  not  spared  children,  women  or 
the  elderly, 
thereby  gravely  violating  all  legal  and  moral  norms 
of  international  humanitarian  law.  Now  Azerbaijan 
cynically refers to those resolutions selectively — citing 
them out of context as a prerequisite for the settlement 
of  the  conflict.  An  adequate  interpretation  of  the 
Security Council resolutions is not possible without a 
correct understanding of the hierarchy of the demands 
set therein.
The  resolutions,  inter  alia,  request  the  restoration 
of economic, transport and energy links in the region 
and  the  removal  of  all  obstacles  to  communications 
and transportation. It is no secret that Azerbaijan and 
Turkey imposed a blockade on Nagorno Karabakh and 
the Republic of Armenia at the outset of the conflict. 
In his statements, the Azerbaijani President even takes 
pride in that fact, promising his public that such action 
would  remain  the  priority  of  Azerbaijan’s  foreign 
policy.
The  aforementioned  Security  Council  resolutions 
call  on  Azerbaijan  to  establish  direct  contacts  with 
Nagorno Karabakh. Azerbaijan has refused to establish 
any  direct  contacts  with  Nagorno  Karabakh,  which 
was  a  legally  equal  party  to  the  ceasefire  agreement 
concluded  in  1994,  as  well  as  a  number  of  other 
international 
agreements.  Moreover,  Azerbaijan 
preaches hatred towards the people it claims it wants to 
see as a part of its State.
None of the Security Council resolutions identifies 
Armenia as a conflicting party. Our country is called 
upon  only  to  continue  to  exert  its  influence  over  the 
Nagorno  Karabakh  Armenians  in  order  to  put  an  end 
to  the  conflict.  Armenia  has  fully  complied,  and  due 
to  its  efforts  a  ceasefire  agreement  was  concluded  in 
1994. All Security Council resolutions refer to Nagorno 
Karabakh as a party to the conflict.
failed 
The  Azerbaijani  authorities  have 
to 
implement  the  fundamental  demands  of  the  Security 
Council resolutions, including abiding by and adhering 
to the humanitarian norms. Incidentally, Azerbaijan has 
occasionally gravely violated that demand. Azerbaijan’s 
cruel  and  inhumane  treatment  of  Armenian  civilian 
prisoners  of  war  regularly  results  in  their  deaths, 
although I imagine that no one would be surprised about 
that, since Azerbaijan is the very State that suppresses 
and exercises the most inhumane treatment of its own 
people.  A  clear  proof  of  that  was  the  decision  of  the 
Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture to suspend its 
visit to Azerbaijan due to the obstructions it encountered 
in the conduct of the official Baku.
The  OSCE  Minsk  Group  is  the  only  specialized 
structure  that  has  been  dealing  with  the  Nagorno 
Karabakh  issue  according  to  the  mandate  granted 
by  the  international  community.  While  Azerbaijan 
knows that it could not possibly deceive or misinform 
the  Minsk  Group,  which  is  well  aware  of  the  essence 
of  the  problem,  it  attempts  to  transpose  the  conflict 
settlement to other platforms by trying to depict it as 
a territorial dispute or exploiting the factor of religious 
solidarity.  That  is  ironic,  since  Armenia  traditionally 
enjoys  very  warm  relations  with  the  Islamic  nations, 
both in the Arabic-speaking world or, for instance, with 
our immediate neighbour Iran.
We  highly  value  the  indispensable  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  adjustment  and  implementation 
of  the  development  goals.  I  strongly  believe  that, 
through the new post-2015 development agenda, we will 
continue  our  efforts  to  seek  solutions  and  respond  to 
global challenges, in accordance with the Millennium 
Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underline  that  we 
have covered a substantial part of the path towards the 
shaping  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  we 
will continue our endeavours in that regard, displaying 
the  flexibility  necessary  to  bring  the  process  to  its 
logical conclusion.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Armenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Arab Republic 
of Egypt.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi, 
34/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Al Sisi (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
it gives me pleasure to congratulate the President of the 
Assembly and his friendly country on his assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth  session.  We  are  confident  that  he  will  lead  its 
work  wisely,  and  we  will  lend  him  our  support  as 
he  undertakes  his  duties.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
express my sincere appreciation to his predecessor for 
his untiring efforts as President of the Assembly at its 
previous session. I also reiterate our full support to the 
Secretary-General as he strives to realize the purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
I stand before the Assembly today as one of the sons 
of Egypt, from the cradle of human civilization. From 
this  rostrum,  I  first  salute  the  great  people  of  Egypt. 
Allow me to also salute the thousands of Egyptians who 
travelled  from  Egypt  and  various  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  who  are  in  the  city  today  to  say  that  the 
new Egypt is coming. From this rostrum, I salute the 
great  people  of  Egypt,  who  have  made  history  twice 
in the past few years: first, when they revolted against 
corruption  and  despotism  and  claimed  their  right  to 
freedom, dignity and social justice; and then when they 
held fast to their identity and, energized by patriotism, 
rose  up  against  exclusion,  refusing  to  succumb  to  the 
tyranny of a faction which, in the name of religion, put 
its narrow interests before the interests of the people.
Those  are  simply  snapshots  of 
the  defining 
moments Egypt has witnessed recently. They are only 
milestones in the longer journey that Egyptians, fuelled 
by their dreams and aspirations, have embarked upon, 
towards a better day and a more prosperous future. The 
world is starting to grasp the reality of what happened 
in  Egypt  and  to  understand  the  circumstances  that 
drove  Egyptians  to  intuitively  take  to  the  streets  to 
rebel  against  the  forces  of  extremism  and  darkness 
that, once in power, undermined the foundations of the 
democratic process and national institutions and sought 
to impose a state of polarization in order to break the 
unity of the people.
The upsurge in extremism and violence perpetrated 
in  the  name  of  religion  that  the  region  is  currently 
witnessing  is  evidence  of  the  true  objectives  of  those 
groups  that  exploit  religion.  We  have  warned  against 
them over and over again. They have transformed the 
values  of  justice,  compassion  and  mercy,  which  are 
treasured by Judaism, Christianity and Islam, into grim 
sectarianism  and  destructive  civil  and  regional  wars 
that  continue  to  claim  the  lives  of  innocent  people  of 
different religions.
The Egyptian people understand — as do I, given 
the  responsibilities  that  I  have  shouldered  since  my 
election as President — that the path towards achieving 
our goals began with the building of a civil democratic 
State,  guided  by  the  principles  we  sought  to  embody 
and adhering to the road map for the future agreed upon 
by  the  Egyptian  national  powers.  That  road  map  will 
be  completed  when  parliamentary  elections  are  held, 
following  the  presidential  election  and  constitutional 
referendum  through  which  Egyptians  expressed  their 
free will. Our aim is to build a new Egypt — a State 
that  respects  rights  and  freedoms,  honours  its  duties 
and  ensures  the  coexistence  of  its  citizens  without 
exclusion  or  discrimination;  a  State  that  respects  and 
enforces the rule of law, guarantees freedom of opinion 
for  all  and  ensures  freedom  of  belief  and  worship  for 
its  people;  and  a  State  that  is  determined  to  achieve 
growth,  prosperity  and  a  promising  future  that  meets 
the aspirations of its people.
To that end, Egypt began implementing an ambitious 
comprehensive  programme 
to  spur  development 
until  2030,  with  the  aim  of  laying  the  foundations  of 
a  free-market  economy  that  is  capable  of  attracting 
investments  in  a  secure  and  stable  environment.  The 
New Suez Canal project, a gift from Egyptians to the 
world, is proof of the seriousness of our intent and of the 
resolve of the new Egypt to forge a better tomorrow for 
its youth. That is why I invite members to participate 
in the economic conference that will be held in Egypt 
in February 2015 to achieve development and build the 
future, not only for Egypt, but for the entire region.
in 
Those  steps  briefly  reflect  the  gist  of  the  social 
contract  embraced  by  Egyptians 
their  new 
Constitution. It is to build a better today and a brighter 
tomorrow for our youth and to establish a State that is 
armed with strong institutions and governed by the rule 
of law; a State that respects the judiciary and ensures its 
independence and applies the principle of the separation 
of powers; and a State that is not held back by a form 
of terrorism that thinks that it can conquer and repress 
our nation.
Egypt  has  suffered  from  the  scourge  of  that 
terrorism  since  the  1920s,  when  it  concealed  its 
poisonous  viewpoints  behind  religion  to  reach  power 
14-54711
35/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
and  establish  the  caliphate  state,  relying  on  armed 
violence  and  terror  to  achieve  its  objectives  and  in 
the process giving rise to a handful of extremists who 
commit atrocities in the name of religion. Here I stress 
that we should not allow them to abuse Islam and offend 
the  1.5  billion  Muslims  who  cherish  its  noble  values. 
Religion, by virtue of its holiness and sanctity, cannot 
be put to the test by humans and judged whether it has 
succeeded or failed.
Terrorism  is  a  plague  that  does  not  differentiate 
between  developing  and  developed  societies  as  it 
spreads. Terrorists come from different societies. They 
are  not  bound  together  by  any  true  religious  faith. 
That  is  why  it  is  imperative  that  we  all  intensify  our 
cooperation  and  coordination  efforts,  pursuant  to  the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and in 
fulfilment of its objectives, to end the support provided 
to  those  terrorist  organizations  that  enables  them  to 
continue perpetrating crimes.
The  problems  facing  our  region  emanate  from 
the space provided to the local and regional forces of 
extremism and the state of polarization that often leads 
to  division  and  strife.  They  have  become  a  serious 
danger that threatens the very existence of the State and 
attacks  its  identity.  That  has  produced  fertile  ground 
for  terrorism  and  its  organizations  to  grow  and  gain 
influence.
In  this  regard,  the  crises  facing  some  countries 
of  the  region  could  be  resolved  by  following  a  two-
pronged  approach  aimed  at  building  the  nation  State. 
The first is the application of the principles of equality 
of all citizens and respect for the rule of law, based on a 
social contract and national consensus, while ensuring 
the enjoyment by all of all rights, especially the right 
to  development.  That  will  safeguard  societies  from 
exploitation  and  prevent  them  from  succumbing  to 
extremism. The second aspect is a decisive confrontation 
with  the  forces  of  extremism  and  terrorism  and  with 
any  attempt  to  impose  opinions  through  intimidation 
and violence or to force exclusion through rejection in 
all its forms.
Egypt,  in  agreement  with  Libya’s  neighbouring 
countries,  has  actually  put  forward  an  initiative  that 
sets specific steps and a clear vision to end the plight 
of that kindred country. We can build on that initiative 
to  achieve  a  comprehensive  political  solution  that 
strengthens Libya’s elected institutions and ensures an 
end  to  the  bloodshed,  while  preserving  its  territorial 
integrity.  Success  requires  effectively  halting  arms 
trafficking  into  Libya  and  dealing  relentlessly  with 
the  extremist  movements  that  resort  to  weapons  and 
violence and do not recognize the democratic process.
Despite the heartrending humanitarian situation in 
fraternal Syria and the destruction and loss of innocent 
lives  resulting  from  the  crisis,  I  am  confident  that  it 
is possible to establish a political framework that will 
ensure that the aspirations of the Syrian people are met 
without compromising with terrorism or replicating the 
circumstances that the Syrians initially rebelled against. 
I  emphasize  that  Egypt  supports  the  Syrian  people’s 
aspirations to a safe and secure life that ensures Syria’s 
stability  and  the  unity  of  its  people  and  preserves  its 
territorial integrity.
The  formation  in  the  brotherly  country  of  Iraq 
of  a  new  Government  approved  by  the  Parliament  is 
a  significant  development  that  restores  hope  in  the 
possibility  of  improving  the  situation  and  for  success 
in  internal  and  external  attempts  to  achieve  stability, 
restore the areas that have fallen under the control of 
the  terrorist  group  Daesh,  maintain  Iraq’s  territorial 
integrity, end the bloodshed.
Despite  the  multitude  of  crises  threatening  our 
region, some of which I have mentioned, the Palestinian 
issue  remains  a  top  priority  for  Egypt.  Palestinians 
still aspire to establish their independent State on the 
territories  occupied  in  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital,  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of  the  peace 
process  that  was  established  in  the  1970s,  following 
an Egyptian initiative. Those principles are not up for 
compromise;  otherwise  the  basis  of  a  comprehensive 
peace  in  the  region  would  erode  and  the  values  of 
justice  and  humanity  would  vanish.  The  continued 
deprivation of the Palestinian people of their rights is 
undoubtedly exploited by some to inflame other crises, 
achieve hidden goals, fragment Arab unity and impose 
trusteeship on Palestinians under the guise of realizing 
their aspirations.
I  am  confident 
that  certain  challenges  will 
require  us  to  work  seriously  and  with  a  clear  vision 
to achieve the ambitions of our people for democracy, 
development and human dignity and for our youth and 
their aspirations for a brighter future. Our success will 
guarantee the future of our people.
From this rostrum, I call upon everyone to address 
the  Ebola  epidemic.  In  many  African  countries, 
combatting the disease is a collective responsibility. We 
must  be  able  to  assist  those  countries  that  need  help, 
36/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
while providing protection to our own people. Distances 
have  become  shorter,  due  to  modern  advances,  thus 
increasing the threat. As a strong State, Egypt bears a 
special responsibility. In the 1990s, Egypt confronted 
terrorism  and  extremism.  I  am  confident  that  it  will 
succeed in uprooting terrorism by virtue of its national 
identity. Egypt will always be a beacon of civilization, 
supporting cohesion in the region. Egyptians will never 
hesitate to assume their role to that effect.
Egypt  considers  the  security  of  the  Arab  States 
integral  to  its  national  security,  on  the  basis  of  our 
common heritage and destiny and our longing for the 
stability  of  a  region  that  is  important  and  crucial  to 
the  world.  Egypt’s  vision  of  international  relations  is 
founded  on  respect  for  the  principles  of  international 
law, treaties and conventions, based on mutual respect 
and mutual interests and benefits.
As  the  Assembly  knows,  Egypt  was  a  founding 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  and  has  ever  since 
strongly contributed to realizing its goals, especially in 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  development.  From 
that standpoint, Egypt’s aspiration to a non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Security  Council  in  2016  and  2017  stems 
from  its  desire  to  use  its  membership  to  achieve  the 
purposes of the Organization and protect the interests 
of developing countries, especially in Africa, as well as 
to accelerate the reform of the United Nations system 
as  part  of  a  broader  vision  based  on  the  principle  of 
equality of all nations. I therefore invite Member States 
to support Egypt’s candidature for the Security Council.
I have conveyed in all humility the message of the 
Egyptian  people,  women,  men,  youth  and  the  elderly. 
It is a message of hope, of will and of determination to 
work. It is a message of openness, calling for cooperation 
with  all,  to  overcome  all  obstacles  and  difficulties.  I 
wish to assure the Assembly that the Egyptian people, 
after their two revolutions, have become the sole source 
of  our  internal  and  external  policies  in  pursuit  of 
stability and development.
Egypt today has regained its self-confidence and is 
upholding the principles of law and freedom. With its 
Arab identity and African roots, it is the cradle of the 
Mediterranean civilization and the beacon of moderate 
Islam.  Egypt  aspires  to  resolve  regional  disputes  and 
uphold the principles of justice and humanity in today’s 
world. I am confident that Egyptians have an infinite 
capacity to give. We have inherited that gift from our 
ancestors and will remain ever generous, God willing.
Long live Egypt. Long live the peace-loving peoples 
of the world. Long live the principles of humanity and 
the values of tolerance and coexistence. May peace be 
upon the Assembly, and the mercy and blessings of God 
as well.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al 
Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the King of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan.
His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, 
King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
King Abdullah (spoke in Arabic): What and where 
is global power? I say that global power is here in this 
Hall, and it is ours if our countries work as one. That is 
the great promise of the General Assembly. The times 
demand that we exercise that power now and to the full.
In my region, the challenges have grown significantly 
since  I  spoke  here  last  year  (see  A/68/PV.5).  Those 
who  say  “This  is  not  our  business”  are  wrong.  The 
security of every nation will be shaped by the fate of 
the Middle East. Together, we can and must undertake 
urgent  humanitarian  and  security  measures,  create 
durable  solutions  for  today’s  crises  and  provide  new 
opportunities  for  dialogue,  reconciliation,  prosperity 
and peace.
The  terrorists  and  criminals  targeting  Syria,  Iraq 
and  other  countries  today  are  extreme  reflections  of 
a  global  threat.  Our  international  community  needs  a 
collective strategy to contain and to defeat those groups. 
My  country  is  at  the  forefront  of  that  effort.  We  are 
leading  a  number  of  initiatives  to  counter  extremism. 
As  the  representative  of  the  Asia-Pacific  bloc  on  the 
Security  Council,  we  seek  a  strong  outcome  of  the 
14-54711
37/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
Security  Council  summit  on  threats  to  international 
peace  and  security  caused  by  terrorist  acts,  to  be 
chaired by President Obama this afternoon.
Another  critical  global  focus  must  be  a  decisive 
affirmation  of  mutual  respect  within  and  among 
religions  and  peoples.  The  teachings  of  true  Islam 
are  clear:  sectarian  conflict  and  strife  are  utterly 
condemned. Islam prohibits violence against Christians 
and the other communities that make up each country. 
Let  me  say  once  again  that  Arab  Christians  are  an 
integral  part  of  my  region’s  past,  present  and  future. 
I  call  on  Muslim  and  other  leaders  to  work  together 
against falsehoods and divisive actions.
Jordan  is  honoured  to  have  spearheaded  global 
interfaith  and  intrareligious  initiatives.  Building  on 
that, Jordan will introduce a draft resolution covering 
the general proposal that a new international offence, 
falling under the crimes of genocide and crimes against 
humanity,  be  considered  on  the  basis  of  the  aberrant 
new crimes against religious communities seen recently 
in Syria and in Iraq.
Together,  let  us  also  address  the  conditions  that 
extremists exploit. Radicalization thrives on injustice, 
insecurity  and  marginalization.  The  Assembly’s 
transformative  development  agenda  can  give 
the 
world’s people a better way forward through concrete 
programmes and investments that will change lives.
We  must  also  work  actively  for  consensus-driven 
political  solutions  to  regional  crises.  The  security 
situation in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon must be addressed 
comprehensively.  Jordan  supports  a  united  and  stable 
Iraq  with  an  inclusive  national  political  process.  In 
Syria,  there  must  be  a  political  solution  based  on 
reforms that give all communities a role in rebuilding 
their country. International influence is vital to bring 
the  moderate  opposition  and  the  regime  back  to  the 
negotiating table immediately.
The heavy flow of Syrian refugees continues. My 
country  is  sheltering  nearly  1.4  million  Syrians.  We 
are  now  host  to  the  world’s  third-largest  number  of 
refugees, and that is placing an overwhelming burden 
on Jordan’s people, infrastructure and already limited 
resources.  The  refugee  crisis  is  a  recognized  global 
responsibility and demands a global solution. To date, 
the  response  has  not  kept  pace  with  the  real  needs. 
There  must  be  a  concerted  effort  to  get  humanitarian 
assistance  flowing  inside  Syria  and  to  support  host 
countries and communities, including Jordan.
We cannot address the future of my region without 
addressing its central conflict: the denial of Palestinian 
rights  and  statehood.  This  year,  yet  again,  we  have 
seen  a  dangerous  halt  in  the  progress  towards  peace 
and a Palestinian State. Instead, in Gaza, we have seen 
another violent detour into conflict. How shall we heal 
the families who have lost so much? How shall we offer 
hope to young people whose futures are at risk? A first 
imperative  step  is  to  mobilize  international  efforts  to 
rebuild Gaza. As we do so, we must also marshal the 
united global response needed to achieve a once-and-
for-all  lasting  settlement.  Such  action  can  create  the 
environment  necessary  to  relaunch  the  final  status 
negotiations on the basis of the Arab Peace Initiative.
That  approach  offers  a  clear  path  —  the  only 
path  —  to  a  comprehensive  settlement  based  on  the 
two-State  solution,  international  legitimacy  and  the 
terms  of  reference.  For  Israel,  it  offers  security  and 
normal  diplomatic  and  economic  relations  with  Arab 
and  Muslim  States  and,  for  Palestinians,  a  viable  and 
independent  sovereign  State,  within  the  1967  lines, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Unilateral  actions 
that  seek  to  pre-empt  negotiations  must  end.  Jordan 
strongly  opposes  threats  to  the  Arab,  Muslim  and 
Christian  identity  of  Jerusalem.  As  the  Hashemite 
custodian  of  Jerusalem’s  Muslim  and  Christian  Holy 
Sites,  I  will  continue  to  oppose  any  violation  of  the 
sanctity of the Al-Aqsa mosque.
The  people  of  Palestine  seek  what  all  humans 
seek. It is the common cause of the General Assembly: 
justice,  dignity,  opportunity  and  hope.  That  is  our 
global responsibility. It is in our global power, and we 
must make it our global reality. Jordan stands ready to 
do its part.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank His Majesty the King of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has 
just made.
His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. François Hollande, President of the 
French Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the French Republic.
38/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  François  Hollande, 
President of the French Republic, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Hollande 
in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  understand  that  I  am  speaking  today 
with particular emotion, because one of my compatriots 
has just been the subject of a cowardly assassination in 
Algeria by a terrorist group linked to Daesh. His name 
was Hervé Gourdel. He was a man full of enthusiasm 
who loved mountains and thought that he would be able 
to pursue his passion by going to the Djurdjura area in 
Algeria. He was captured, and he was decapitated. That 
is what terrorism does. And it does not do that only to 
France. Several days ago it was American and British 
individuals subjected to the same barbarity.
That group — Daesh — does not strike only those 
who think differently from themselves; they also strike 
Muslims,  they  strike  civilian  populations,  and  they 
strike  minorities.  They  rape,  they  kill.  That  is  why 
the battle that the international community must wage 
against terrorism knows no borders. The same flag must 
be carried, that of the United Nations, that of the values 
for  which  this  Organization  was  founded  —  human 
dignity, freedom, the vision we must have of a world of 
tomorrow, a world of justice.
France  is  fully  engaged  in  this  battle.  That  was 
the case in Africa when it was called to Mali, where, 
fortunately, it was joined by many African and European 
countries  and  now  by  the  United  Nations.  France  has 
been engaged whenever there is a risk. But today it is 
in Iraq and Syria where that threat exists. But it does 
not concern that region alone, because the Daesh group 
has  decided  not  only  to  conquer  territory,  imagining 
that it will found a State; it threatens the entire world 
by  provoking  attacks,  organizing  kidnappings  and 
recruiting fighters from around the world to train them 
and  show  them  the  barbarity  of  which  the  group  is 
capable,  so  they  may  reproduce  that  horrific  terrorist 
movement in our own countries.
It  is  because  this  threat  exists  not  only  for  the 
region  but  for  the  world  that  France  responded  to  the 
Iraqi  authorities’  appeal  to  provide  them  first  with 
military aid through the delivery of weapons this past 
August and also with aerial support to keep the Daesh 
group from being able to continue its advance. We want 
to weaken it. We want to quash it.
But  we  also  know  that  as  long  as  there  is  no 
settlement of the Syrian crisis, all our efforts risk being 
undermined. So the challenge is not only to act against 
Daesh,  but  also  to  achieve  a  political  solution.  We  in 
France  support  the  democratic  Syrian  opposition.  We 
consider  it  the  sole  legitimate  representative  of  the 
Syrian people. In that case, too, we will not back down; 
we will not compromise because of threats. The Bashar 
Al-Assad  regime  deserves  to  be  condemned  because 
they  are  complicit  in  what  has  been  going  on  for  the 
past  three  years  in  Syria  —  200,000  deaths  and  so 
many displaced persons.
This is a sad time for France, with the death — the 
murder — of one of our citizens, but France will never 
give in to blackmail, pressure or barbarous acts. On the 
contrary, France knows what is expected of it. France 
knows that it upholds values, France knows it has a role 
to play and will never abandon that role, and that the 
fight against terrorism will be continued and expanded 
as much as necessary within respect for the rule of law 
and the sovereignty of States, for we make no mistake 
when we act. We will always act with respect for the 
principles of the United Nations.
I  also  wanted  to  talk  to  about  other  things,  but 
it  must  be  understood  that  a  great  question  is  being 
asked of my country and also of the Assembly. When 
faced  with  barbarism,  with  terrorism,  will  we  remain 
spectators, or will we be actors together in what should 
be  a  just  international  order?  The  question,  if  we  do 
not  respond  to  it,  or  if  we  respond  too  weakly,  then 
terrorists  will  continue  their  business  of  recruitment 
and indoctrination. It is not weakness that will be the 
response  to  terrorism;  it  is  force  —  the  force  of  law, 
the force of the United Nations. At a certain point also, 
it will be the force of military action when it becomes 
necessary.
I  also  wanted  to  talk  about  other  regions  of  the 
world  that  are  facing  threats  that  also  affect  our  own 
security. I want to talk to the Assembly about the Ebola 
epidemic, because I know just how much it is affecting 
our African friends. But again, let us look beyond those 
who are affected. Who can imagine that the epidemic 
will remain confined to just a few countries if we do 
not  intervene?  It  is  also  a  global  threat.  Again,  the 
response must be a global. Therefore, France, Europe 
14-54711
39/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
and the world must provide to the countries affected by 
the epidemic the necessary medical care, indispensable 
protection  and  economic  assistance  that  is  expected. 
Because  again,  if  there  is  the  slightest  weakness,  the 
slightest failure to show solidarity, all of our countries 
will be affected.
I have also come here before the General Assembly 
to speak about what is happening in Europe and next to 
Europe, to speak about what occurred in Ukraine and 
the failures there to uphold principles of international 
law. But what is at stake today, even in Europe, is peace 
and ensuring that the ceasefire that was agreed can be 
transformed into a lasting solution to the conflict.
is 
fragile,  everything 
No  continent  has  been  spared  from  any  threat. 
Everything 
is  precarious, 
everything  is  vulnerable.  We  have  to  have  the  same 
awareness of the risks, the dangers and the perils that 
we had right after the Second World War. We must not 
think that all we have to do is remember; we have to 
think  of  the  future,  of  the  world  we  want.  The  world 
that we want is the final subject I wish to address here.
The world that we want has to be one of profound 
change.  The  present  disorder  also  threatens  not  only 
our  generation  but  naturally  those  that  will  follow 
us.  It  threatens  our  very  security,  as  there  are  more 
displaced  persons  resulting  from  climate  imbalance 
than from wars, which are sadly so intense and deadly 
on our planet. France has lived up to its responsibilities 
in  that  area  too.  We  decided  to  organize  the  climate 
conference in December 2015. I am pleased that thanks 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, there was a summit 
here 
that  mobilized  awareness,  States,  financial 
institutions, businesses and civil society. Many events 
took place. We have to succeed at the Paris conference, 
not because it will take place in Paris, but because it is 
the world’s appointment with itself.
There  are  periods  in  history  when  we  have  the 
power to decide, and decide not just for ourselves but 
for humankind. This is one of those moments. Therefore 
in Paris, we have to do everything can be done to reach 
a comprehensive, binding agreement that differentiates 
according to levels of development, everything so that 
there can be that Green Climate Fund, to which France 
has contributed $1 billion for the coming years. I hope 
that  other  countries  follow  our  example,  because  we 
need that Green Fund to allow less developed countries 
to grow and to succeed in their energy transition at the 
same time.
This  is  a  sad  moment  that  I  am  living  today  on 
behalf of France, that the French are experiencing, but 
it is also a moment of awakening and responsibility. For 
the world, for the planet, we must fight terrorism, we 
must act in favour of peace, we must reduce inequalities, 
we  must  also  do  our  duty  for  future  generations.  We 
must  ensure  that  the  Paris  conference  is  successful 
for the sake of the climate. We must make certain that 
the United Nations can remain faithful to the mandate 
given  to  it  after  a  war  —  a  terrible  war.  We  are  still 
facing challenges, but we are certain to meet them if we 
are united and come together to claim victory.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the French 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by His Excellency Enrique Peña Nieto, 
President of the United Mexican States
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the United Mexican 
States.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto, 
President  of  the  United  Mexican  States,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Peña  Nieto  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
President  of  Mexico,  it  is  a  high  honour  for  me  to 
participate for the first time in the General Assembly, 
the  greatest  symbol  of  unity  among  nations.  Mexico 
reiterates  its  historic  commitment  to  this  universal 
forum of dialogue, understanding and cooperation.
Today’s  world  could  not  be  imagined  without 
the  United  Nations.  Its  positive  influence  is  present 
in  all  realms  of  our  lives.  The  United  Nations  leads 
international efforts to combat hunger, pandemics and 
climate change. It protects our children, preserves the 
heritage  of  humanity  and  furthers  the  empowerment 
and  advancement  of  women  around  the  world.  The 
Organization promotes trade and global communications 
as well as human rights and peace. Thanks to the United 
40/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
Nations, our world today enjoys greater freedom and is 
more democratic and more developed.
While  United  Nations  contributions  to  the  well-
being  of  millions  of  people  are  indeed  evident,  one 
cannot deny the multiple challenges that every country 
of  this  planet  is  currently  facing.  From  the  global 
economy  that  has  yet  to  recover  its  dynamism,  to 
regional  conflicts  that  have  caused  deaths  and  forced 
migration  flows,  to  climate  change  triggering  natural 
disasters, it is clear that the world requires multilateral 
responses that are more effective.
In a world with so many phenomena that transcend 
borders,  international  cooperation  is  more  necessary 
than ever, and the sum of global efforts can emerge only 
here,  at  the  United  Nations.  Today,  our  planet  needs 
to  be  able  to  depend  on  a  more  effective,  efficient, 
transparent  and  representative  United  Nations,  where 
all societies of the world have greater participation. The 
United Nations must dare to change in order to improve.
In  Mexico,  we  firmly  believe  that  the  United 
Nations has all the attributes to be more daring and self-
renewing. With respect to institutional change, we need 
a Security Council that evolves and that truly represents 
the  new  world  equilibrium.  It  is  important  to  reform 
the  Council  in  order  to  strengthen  its  transparency, 
accountability and capacity to respond. We believe that 
the Security Council should be enlarged by increasing 
the number of non-permanent members, creating long-
term seats with the possibility of immediate re-election 
as part of a more equitable geographic representation. 
The world needs a United Nations where the permanent 
members of the Council refrain from using the veto in 
cases of grave violations of international humanitarian 
law.
With  respect  to  international  peace  and  security, 
the  United  Nations  must  prevent  arms  trafficking 
and  the  serious  damage  that  phenomenon  inflicts  on 
our societies. The Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) provides 
the  tools  to  tackle  that  growing  challenge.  However, 
it  is  vital  that  all  nations  sign  the  Treaty,  but,  more 
importantly, that they all ratify it. The First Conference 
of States Parties to the ATT will be held in Mexico next 
year.  It  will  be  a  great  opportunity  for  all  nations  to 
work together to prevent arms from hurting children or 
vulnerable populations around the world.
Similarly,  we  must  also  strengthen  the  United 
Nations  so  that  it  can  effectively  combat  terrorism, 
which is lacerating societies around the world.
In addition, we need the United Nations to renew 
its  efforts  for  nuclear  disarmament.  We  must  prevent 
more  countries  or  non-State  actors  from  having  that 
destructive  capacity  within  reach,  and  we  must  also 
demand  that  those  already  possessing  it  reduce  and 
eliminate  those  weapons.  If  we  want  a  safer  world, 
no one should use or threaten to use nuclear power to 
endanger the very survival of humankind itself.
I  turn  next  to  the  development  agenda.  Now  that 
the  date  is  approaching  to  define  the  sustainable 
development  goals,  we  need  a  United  Nations  with  a 
broader  vision  of  the  well-being  of  individuals.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  must  recognize  that 
poverty is not determined solely by insufficient income, 
but  also  by  other  scarcities  that  impede  personal  and 
collective  development.  Furthermore,  we  believe  that 
economic  and  social  inclusion  should  be  one  of  the 
principal points of the agenda.
The  United  Nations  also  needs  to  update  its 
commitment to the rights of girls, boys and adolescents, 
addressing new challenges that threaten their integrity. 
We should initiate at the global level a joint initiative 
to  combat  harassment  at  school,  or  psychological 
harassment like bullying, and at the same time reinforce 
basic values among our children and youths. If we want 
for tomorrow a world in which adults have a spirit of 
empathy,  understanding,  friendship  among  peoples, 
peace and universal brotherhood, we need to act now 
with more determination so that our children and our 
youth can live free from any type of abuse.
In  short,  to  address  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  we  need  a  United  Nations  with  a  new 
institutional  design,  with  a  renewed  commitment  to 
peace and security and, above all, with a comprehensive 
and  inclusive  development  agenda.  Change  is  never 
easy,  especially  when  it  demands  a  fundamental 
transformation and when it depends on the cooperation 
of  multiple  actors,  each  with  its  own  priorities  and 
interests.  In  the  specific  case  of  the  United  Nations, 
multiple voices acknowledge the need for a change, but 
at the same time, they believe it is an impossible task 
because no one is willing to yield.
In  Mexico,  we  experienced  a  similar  situation. 
There  were  those  who  agreed  on  the  urgency  of 
promoting  structural  changes  domestically,  but  they 
also  warned  that  it  would  not  be  possible  to  carry 
them  out.  Those  voices  affirmed  that  political  groups 
and the Government of the republic would not be able 
to  reach  agreement  in  order  to  transform  our  nation. 
14-54711
41/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
Nonetheless, Mexico demonstrated that it is possible to 
build with a plurality, that diversity is a strength when 
there  is  a  readiness  for  a  constructive  dialogue.  The 
foundation for achieving that was the Pact for Mexico, 
an  agreement  under  which  all  essential  commitments 
were  formed  in  order  to  advance  a  broad  agenda  for 
reforms in a various spheres of the national life.
the 
telecommunications  sector, 
Building upon that innovative political instrument, 
Mexicans  dared  to  improve  the  quality  of  education, 
to  make  the  job  market  more  flexible  and  to  combat 
monopolies  and  anti-competitive  practices.  We  dared 
to  modernize 
to 
increase  the  opportunities  for  credit  and  reduce  its 
cost,  to  strengthen  public  finances  and  to  initiate  a 
new model for energy development for the country. We 
Mexicans  held  dialogues  and  agreed  on  the  renewal 
of  our  political  and  electoral  institutions  and  of  our 
justice system and accountability system. We decided 
to  transform  ourselves.  Those  profound  changes  were 
decades  overdue,  because  no  political  party  has  held 
a  majority  in  Congress  in  past  years.  Nevertheless, 
through  dialogue  and  consensus  it  was  possible  to 
achieve those changes in just 20 months.
What  was 
the  principal  difference  from 
the 
past? It was the will of an entire nation that dared to 
change.  Mexico  acted  decisively  and  wisely.  It  dared 
to  transform  itself  and  to  set  itself  in  motion.  On  the 
basis of that experience, I am convinced that the United 
Nations can also change.
Almost  70  years  after  its  creation,  the  United 
Nations must evolve, as the world has evolved. I know 
it  will  not  be  easy  to  build  consensus  to  succeed, 
because  inertia  must  be  broken  and  paradigms  must 
be changed. But I also know that the talent, the vision 
and  the  audicity  needed  to  achieve  that  do  exist.  It  is 
time to build a new United Nations for a new century. 
That will require that all States have the will to listen, 
discuss  and  tolerate  and  the  capacity  to  yield.  At  the 
end of that process, the world will have more a efficient 
Organization,  a  United  Nations  that  is  able  to  work 
successfully in favour of the peace and development of 
the planet. My country is ready to play an active role in 
the transformation. It is determined to evolve with the 
United Nations.
Mexico 
supports 
and  values  peacekeeping 
operations,  a  United  Nations  instrument  that  assists 
countries to overcome conflicts and create conditions 
for  sustainable  peace  by  providing  the  means  for 
reconstruction, humanitarian aid and security. That is 
why Mexico has decided to participate in United Nations 
peacekeeping operations, providing humanitarian work 
to  benefit  civilian  populations.  Our  participation  will 
be in keeping with a clear mandate from the Security 
Council and with the foreign-policy norms established 
in our Constitution. With such determination, Mexico, 
as a responsible stakeholder, will take a historic step in 
its commitment to the United Nations.
Next year, the Organization will reach its seventieth 
anniversary. That will offer us a great opportunity to 
make  our  plurality  both  an  asset  and  a  strength  for 
change. With the participation of all, with the drive and 
the boldness of the Member States, the United Nations 
can transform itself to benefit the whole of humanity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the United 
Mexican States for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistő, President of the 
Republic of Finland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of 
the Republic of Finland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Niinistö: The events of the past months 
fill  us  with  sadness.  We  have  entered  another  grim 
era  of  conflicts.  What  has  happened  in  Ukraine  and 
in Syria and Iraq illustrates that. The core values and 
rules on which the United Nations is based have been 
violated.  The  crisis  in  Ukraine  has  a  deep  impact  on 
the security of Europe. We have not experienced such 
breakdown since the tragedy of the Balkan wars. But I 
want to stress that Ukraine is not only a question limited 
to Europe. It should — and eventually will — concern 
all of us.
42/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
for  human 
A rule-based international system is a precondition 
for  peace  and  security, 
rights  and 
development.  If  we  cease  to  protect  this  system,  it 
will  cease  to  protect  us.  It  would  be  a  dramatic  and 
far-reaching  mistake  to  let  our  rule-based  order  slip 
towards chaos and the law of the jungle. Unfortunately, 
the  Security  Council  has  not  been  able  to  uphold  its 
responsibilities either in Ukraine or in Syria. We need 
to  reform  the  Security  Council.  Finland  supports  the 
efforts to restrict the use of veto.
I  am  pleased  that  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  68/262,  entitled  “Territorial  integrity  of 
Ukraine”,  on  27  March,  by  a  clear  majority.  Yet  the 
voice  of  this  important  body  should  have  been  even 
stronger,  condemning  Russia’s  actions  and  charting 
a  way  towards  ending  violence  and  restoring  peace. 
When  the  territorial  integrity  of  a  Member  State 
is  violated  and  it  loses  control  over  a  part  of  its  own 
area  through  an  illegal  annexation,  the  Member  State 
should be able to turn to the United Nations for justice 
and  remedy.  De-escalation  in  Ukraine  cannot  happen 
without Russia’s active steps. Russia should control its 
border and prevent the flow of arms and fighters and 
thereby  contribute  to  stabilization  of  the  situation  in 
eastern Ukraine. Only a political solution can solve this 
crisis. We have recently seen some steps towards that, 
but a lot still remains to be done.
As  the  Secretary-General  has  reminded  us,  the 
international community must not abandon the people 
of Syria. We cannot forget those who have died or those 
driven  from  their  homes  —  half  of  the  population  of 
Syria.  Three  million  Syrians  have  been  received  as 
refugees  in  the  neighbouring  countries.  The  Syrian 
conflict can be solved only by political means. Finland 
continues to give its full support to the United Nations 
Special Envoy for Syria. Women in Syria, as in other 
conflict-driven  countries,  must  be  included  in  the 
peace process. We welcome women’s active efforts to 
strengthen their voices in Syria and eslewhere.
The  war  in  Syria  has  severely  affected  the 
security situation in the whole region. The geographic 
expansion of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
organization, with its horrendous terror, is a by-product 
of the conflict. That situation has serious consequences 
locally,  regionally  and  internationally.  That  challenge 
must  be 
through  wide-ranging 
international  cooperation.  Finland  will  contribute  to 
those common efforts.
together 
tackled 
The international community showed determination 
last  autumn  after  the  chemical  attacks  in  Syria.  The 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-
United  Nations  Joint  Mission  for  the  Elimination  of 
the Chemical Weapons Programme of the Syrian Arab 
Republic  focused  on  the  verification  and  destruction 
of  Syria’s  chemical  weapons  programme.  Finland  has 
worked alongside the Joint Mission in that demanding 
operation. We must remain vigilant. In order to fulfil 
its United Nations commitments as well as to comply 
with  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention,  Syria  must 
take further action. We must show that determination 
again.  I  strongly  reiterate  the  appeal  to  the  Security 
Council to refer the Syrian situation to the International 
Criminal Court (ICC). The ICC must be used when the 
national justice system is not able to deliver.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Those  conflicts  are  unfolding  at  a  time  when 
cooperation  and  common  efforts  are  more  needed 
than  ever.  We  share  the  same  global  challenges,  such 
as climate change. Ebola is another serious threat. To 
help, Finland will double its assistance. It is critically 
important  to  us  and  our  planet  that  we  address  them 
together.  Here,  I  want  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  in  addressing 
those challenges.
Intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
agenda will commence soon. We should aspire to a new 
kind of global commitment to fulfil both the needs of 
mankind and planet Earth. We owe this to our children 
and their children. To achieve sustainable development, 
we need clear objectives. We need to be able to monitor 
our  commitments  in  an  efficient  way.  All  resources 
and  means  should  be  mobilized.  We  cannot  rely  only 
on  traditional  resources  any  more.  Public  funding  for 
development is still important for the poorest and those 
affected  by  conflicts.  But  at  the  same  time,  domestic 
resource mobilization, innovation, trade and technology 
and investments must play a stronger role in sustainable 
development.
Many countries of the global South enjoy a robust 
economic  growth.  That  provides  an  opportunity  to 
invest  in  tax  systems,  which  in  turn  generates  public 
resources for sustainable development. A just tax and 
redistribution policy is one of the most efficient ways 
to  reduce  inequalities  and  fight  marginalization.  The 
rule of law and the fight against corruption play a huge 
role as well.
14-54711
43/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
I 
trust 
the  Secretary-General 
to  be  both 
visionary  and  concrete  when  setting  the  scene  for 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  This  process 
will  culminate  next  year  in  this  very  Hall.  The  best 
way  to  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United  Nations  next  year  is  to  adopt  transformative 
commitments that set us on a path towards sustainable 
development.
I started by describing the grim state of international 
relations. My analysis is not an excuse for inaction, but 
a call to redouble our diplomatic efforts. We must act 
with determination, and we must act now. Finland will 
support  efforts  to  restore  peace  and  prevent  further 
damage  to  our  rule-based  international  system.  We 
must also aim high in addressing together the broader 
global  challenges  of  climate  change  and  sustainable 
development.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Finland for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, 
President of the Republic of Indonesia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Indonesia.
Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Susilo 
Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Indonesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Yudhoyono:  It  is  a  great  honour  for 
me  to  stand  once  again  before  the  Assembly  —  the 
last time I shall do so in my two terms as President of 
Indonesia. I could not agree more with the theme chosen 
for  this  session,  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a 
transformative post-2015 development agenda”, which 
is  very  much  in  line  with  the  work  of  the  High-level 
Panel I have been privileged to co-chair.
For the past 15 years, the international community 
has  been  working  on  a  grand  and  ambitious  project 
for  humankind,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Our  hard  work  over  the  years  has  produced 
achievements that include breakthroughs in combating 
poverty,  increasing  school  enrolment  and  improving 
public health. Those achievements are encouraging and, 
in some instances, inspiring. But humankind as a whole 
has  not  achieved  all  the  MDG  targets.  The  successes 
have  been  uneven,  differing  between  regions,  within 
regions  and  even  within  countries.  We  have  come  a 
long way, yet we still have a long way to go.
For  those  who  have  made  it,  as  well  as  for  those 
who have yet to make it, I have learned one great lesson, 
which  is  that  the  most  important  driver  of  change 
lies  in  governance  —  not  just  good  governance,  but 
smart governance. Smart governance usually involves 
innovative  leadership  and  active  public  participation. 
Without at least those two elements, all the hard work 
we put in will not produce the desired results. And with 
smart  governance,  nations  can  exceed  their  potential 
and leapfrog over others ahead of them. In Indonesia we 
have managed to increase our national per capita income 
by 400 per cent within just one decade, something that 
was beyond our wildest imagination.
The  quest  to  achieve  the  MDGs  over  the  past 
15 years has also reinforced the need for a more robust 
global  partnership.  There  has  certainly  been  much 
activity. But somehow, our efforts in the World Trade 
Organization, on the post-Kyoto climate, on reforming 
the global financial architecture and the United Nations 
and in many other areas have proved painfully slow.
As we set forth a new global agenda for development, 
I believe we can draw on those years of trial and error to 
become more acutely aware of the promises and pitfalls 
of development, and of what we want and what we do 
not want. We do not want development that measures 
progress  in  terms  of  material  possessions  alone  and 
ends up dehumanizing and marginalizing our citizens. 
What we want is sustainable development with equity.
Yet  the  importance  of  our  work  lies  beyond  the 
issue of development, since we are now also confronted 
with  yet  another  major  problem.  We  are  witnessing  a 
worrying  deterioration  in  the  relations  between  the 
major  Powers.  None  of  us,  certainly  not  the  United 
Nations, can afford to bury our heads in the sand about 
that grim development.
44/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
It is especially worrying, given that for more than 
two decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the world 
actually witnessed a series of promising events. Most 
fundamental was the fact that improved relations among 
the major Powers created ample space for new strategic 
and  economic  opportunities.  Global  trade  totals  have 
reached $23 trillion, an almost six-fold expansion since 
the year after the Cold War ended in 1990. The fastest 
growth  —  one  and  a  half  times  as  fast  as  during  the 
preceding two decades — was from 2000 to 2013, the 
period that coincided with our work on the MDGs. The 
value of global investments reached almost $1.5 trillion 
in 2013 for a near seven-fold increase since 1990.
In  South-East  Asia,  that  positive  geopolitical 
development  has  allowed  us  to  develop  stronger 
cooperation  and  to  develop  the  region’s  architecture. 
It led to the establishment of the East Asia Summit, a 
vision for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) community, a progressive ASEAN Charter, 
a  more  active  ASEAN  Regional  Forum  and  other 
institutions. And Indonesia has also been able to develop 
strategic partnerships with all the major Powers as well 
as with many emerging Powers.
Today  I  see  that  the  international  community 
is  concerned  about  the  danger  of  the  old  Cold  War 
returning.  Major-Power 
relations  are  worsening, 
fuelled  by  mutual  suspicion.  Relationships  that  were 
previously  stable  and  cooperative  are  now  marked  by 
volatility  and  tension.  That  benefits  no  one,  and  we 
should  therefore  not  let  it  become  permanent.  The 
major Powers — indeed, all of us — have an obligation 
to work together to resolve the major issues of our time. 
To  mention  only  a  few,  we  must  end  the  suffering  of 
the  Palestinians  in  Gaza  and  the  rest  of  the  occupied 
territory and deliver the still elusive two-State solution. 
We  must  resolve  the  conflict  in  Ukraine  that  is  now 
upsetting relations between Russia and the West. And 
we  must  find  an  effective  and  durable  solution  to  the 
ongoing conflicts in Syria and Iraq.
this, 
To  do  all  of 
there  must  be  mutual 
accommodation.  There  must  be  a  forward-looking 
attitude 
that  embraces  a  win-win  predisposition 
rather than a zero-sum attitude. Diplomacy must take 
precedence.  The  deficit  of  trust  must  be  transformed 
into  strategic  opportunities  and  confidence-building. 
It  is  not  enough  just  to  call  for  peaceful  coexistence. 
That  is  so  twentieth  century.  Here  in  the  twenty-first 
century, we need much more than conditions in which 
world Powers merely peacefully coexist. We need those 
Powers to work passionately together in order to foster 
strategic cooperation and to tackle global issues. They 
must begin to turn the trust deficit into a new strategic 
trust not only among themselves but also with emerging 
Powers  and  with  all  nations  of  the  United  Nations.  Is 
that  possible?  I  would  say  a  resolute  yes,  for  that  is 
what has transpired in South-East Asia. In the second 
half of the 1960s, South-East Asian nations were poor, 
divided  and  insecure,  threatened  by  a  war  raging  in 
their neighbourhood and ignorant of one another after 
centuries of separation during the colonial past.
The establishment of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations enabled countries in the region to form 
the habit of dialogue and consultation with one another 
and to learn to trust one another. Today, we can proudly 
say that the once-divided 10 South-East Asian nations 
now belong to ASEAN-10. Together, they are all drivers 
of regional affairs and masters of their own destiny. A 
number of sensitive inter-State and intra-State conflicts 
have  been  peacefully  resolved.  Those  that  remain  are 
being  addressed  through  dialogue  and  negotiation. 
Economic interdependence has become the norm of the 
day.
Moreover,  South-East  Asia  is  on  the  verge  of 
becoming a true community. We regard that as the apex 
of  strategic  trust,  which  we  believe  can  be  replicated 
everywhere.  The  culture  of  peace  and  coexistence 
that  we  are  trying  to  attain  in  Indonesia  and  in  the 
ASEAN  region  is  clearly  the  antidote  to  the  poison 
of  fundamentalist  prejudice  and  deep  intolerance,  as 
practised  by  a  terrorist  group  in  Iraq  and  Syria  that 
falsely defines itself as the Islamic State. The ideology 
of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  not  only 
betrays the true teaching of Islam as a religion of peace 
but also harms and seriously upsets the Islamic Ummah 
throughout the world.
It has been a great privilege to forge closer bonds 
between  Indonesia  and  all  nations  represented  in  this 
great  assembly,  the  United  Nations.  As  I  look  back, 
I  must  admit  that  there  remain  many  challenges  that 
Indonesia must resolve. Some of our efforts are already 
on  the  right  track.  In  a  world  desperately  grappling 
with  climate  change,  we  are  progressively  and  boldly 
applying  a  moratorium  on  deforestation  —  our 
important contribution to reducing carbon emission. In 
a world of economic uncertainty, we have increased our 
national income per capita by 400 per cent within just 
a short decade.
14-54711
45/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
In a world witnessing rising extremism, Indonesia 
continues  to  hold  firm  to  the  values  of  freedom, 
tolerance,  moderation  and  multiculturalism,  which 
form  the  basis  of  our  nationhood.  In  a  world  still 
burdened  by  insurgencies,  we  have  managed  to  find 
a  permanent  peaceful  political  solution  to  end  the 
30-year conflict in Aceh province. In a world marked 
by  turbulent  transitions  in  the  Middle  East,  time  and 
again  we  have  shown  to  our  people  and  to  the  world 
that,  in  Indonesia,  democracy,  Islam,  modernity  and 
human rights go together.
In a world often stigmatized by the past, Indonesia 
has opened a entire new chapter of peaceful relations 
with Timor-Leste on the basis on equality and mutual 
respect.  In  a  world  where  territorial  disputes  often 
erupt  into  open  conflicts,  Indonesia  has  continued  to 
peacefully resolve, one by one, the overlapping maritime 
borders with Vietnam, the Philippines, Singapore and 
other nations.
The Indonesian and South-East Asian experiences 
underscore the dawn of a new age of globalism for the 
twenty-first  century  —  a  world  that  openly  embraces 
change as opposed to being intimidated by it. What the 
world so desperately needs today is a pioneering spirit: 
the boldness to break old boundaries and to create new 
frontiers.  Given  that  spirit,  I  believe  that  humankind 
can overcome the challenge of climate change, conquer 
poverty,  eradicate  social  injustice,  hasten  the  global 
economic recovery and create a culture of peace among 
all  religions,  including  the  Abrahamic  faiths.  In  that 
spirit,  we  can,  hopefully,  end  the  cycle  of  violence, 
hatred,  fear  and  humiliation  that  has  made  so  many 
conflicts around the world seem intractable for decades 
and centuries.
international 
in  understanding 
In saying that, I am neither a Utopian nor a blind 
relations. 
idealist 
However, I believe that, with a strong commitment and 
political will, we can make the impossible possible. As 
we  say  in  Indonesia,  where  there  is  a  will,  there  is  a 
way.  We  must  drive  the  frontiers  of  nationalism  into 
a  new  globalism,  where  we  can  devise  solutions  to 
national,  regional  and  global  issues  at  the  same  time. 
We must achieve a new globalism, where no nation is 
left behind and no nation dominates and where rights 
are protected and responsibilities are met. In the world 
of a new globalism, wars are unthinkable. In the first 
place,  wars  are  fought  because  nations  play  a  zero-
sum  game,  where  the  winners  take  all  and  the  losers 
weep — the game of us against them, which the “us” 
must win and the “them” must lose. Winners today are 
losers tomorrow.
Let me conclude by saying that now is the time for 
all of us to start the serious business of building a new 
world  of  peace,  prosperity  and  justice  and  of  making 
everybody a winner by creating and nurturing the new 
all-inclusive “we” that leaves no one behind.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of 
the Argentine Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Argentine Republic.
Ms.  Cristina  Fernández,  President  of  Argentine 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Cristina 
Fernández, President of the Argentine Republic, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly.
President Fernández (spoke in Spanish): I address 
the  General  Assembly  at  a  very  special  moment,  not 
only  for  the  world  but  also  for  my  country.  I  would 
like  to  begin  by  reflecting  on  the  words  with  which 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  opened  this  sixty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  He  went  over 
many of the problems, tragedies and calamities that are 
unsettling the world today, and I think, if I remember 
correctly, that he literally confirmed that the turmoil, 
as  he  defined  it,  that  is  upsetting  the  world  today  is 
endangering multilateralism.
I  sincerely  believe  that  most  of  the  problems  that 
the planet has today economically and financially, with 
respect to terrorism and security, in terms of force and 
territorial  integrity,  of  war  and  peace,  are  the  result 
of  the  exact  opposite:  the  absence  of  an  effective, 
practical and democratic multilateralism. That is why, 
I  would  like  to  begin  today  in  particular  by  thanking 
and congratulating the General Assembly for adopting 
46/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
resolution 68/304, on 9 September, by which it finally 
decided  by  a  wide  majority  of  124  votes  to  dedicate 
itself  to  drafting  a  multilateral  convention  which  will 
be  a  regulatory  legal  framework  for  restructuring  the 
sovereign debts of all countries, a task that we needed 
to take on.
I have been coming to the General Assembly since 
2003, first as a Senator, and then, starting in 2007, as 
President.  We  always  came  calling  for  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  and  of  the  International  Monetary 
Fund. Our point of departure was the experience we had 
in my country, the Argentine Republic. Today, I would 
go so far as to say in this international context that my 
country,  the  Argentine  Republic,  is  a  triple  leading 
case in terms of economics and finance, terrorism and 
security, and force and territorial integrity.
The first area is the economic and financial crisis 
that  spread  throughout  the  world  starting  in  2008, 
which  persists  to  this  day  and  which  is  beginning  to 
threaten emerging economies whose greater economic 
growth  we  have  supported  over  the  past  decade.  The 
2008  crisis  was  experienced  by  my  country  in  2001, 
when  the  largest  default  on  sovereign  debt  in  living 
memory occurred. At the time, the Argentine Republic 
had accrued debt representing 160 per cent of the gross 
domestic  product,  with  the  consent  of  multilateral 
organizations, because when one is speaking about that 
level of debt, the problem is not just that of the debtor, 
but also of the creditors.
Starting  with  the  dictatorship  on  24  March  1976, 
and  through  the  neoliberal  period,  Argentina  was  a 
favourite  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  In  the 
end,  Argentina  accumulated  an  unprecedented  debt 
that caused the country to implode, not just in economic 
terms but also in political terms. We had five presidents 
in  a  single  week.  At  that  point,  nobody  claimed 
responsibility  for  what  had  taken  place  in  Argentina. 
Argentina had to resolve its problems as best it could, 
and in 2003, a few months after taking office, a President 
who had come to head the Government with only 22 per 
cent of the vote came to speak at the General Assembly 
(see A/58/PV.11) and maintained that it was necessary 
to generate a model of development and growth for the 
country  so  that  the  country  could  shoulder  its  debt. 
He  maintained,  in  a  rather  interesting  metaphor,  that 
dead people do not pay their debts and that countries 
have  to  live,  develop  and  grow  in  order  to  meet  their 
obligations.
But he also said that the level of debt — 160 per cent 
of the gross domestic product — was not our country’s 
responsibility alone; that we as a country were accepting 
responsibility  for  having  adopted  policies  that  had 
been  forced  upon  us;  that  while  we  were  shouldering 
our responsibility, we were also requesting and calling 
for the multilateral organizations like the International 
Monetary  Fund  and  the  creditors  themselves,  which 
had lent money at usurious rates — at that time as high 
as 14 per cent in United States dollars — which were 
receiving payments in the Argentine Republic, to also 
assume part of the responsibility for that indebtedness.
And with that man — who took over with 22 per 
cent  of  the  vote,  with  25  per  cent  unemployment,  a 
54  per  cent  poverty  rate  and  27  per  cent  of  extreme 
poverty,  without  education,  without  health,  without 
social security, over time, with a model of development 
and growth — we were able not only to create millions 
of  jobs,  millions  of  people  becoming  integrated  in 
the  social  security  system,  including  retirees  and 
pensioners,  but  also  to  invest  6  per  cent  of  the  gross 
domestic product in education, and set aside enormous 
amounts  of  money  for  the  country’s  infrastructure, 
building  roads,  schools,  nuclear  plants,  hydroelectric 
plants, water, gas and electricity plants that now cover 
the entire country, in an unprecedented programme of 
social inclusion that has allowed to reduce poverty and 
extreme poverty to single digits.
Today,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  itself 
recognizes that Argentina’s economic growth between 
2004 and 2011 is the third-largest globally in terms of 
quality of growth. Only Bulgaria and China are ahead 
of us. In Latin America, we have the greatest quality of 
growth and the best purchasing power for our workers 
and salaried employees and the highest social security 
deposits.
We  have  been  able  to  achieve  all  of  that  while 
also dealing with debt that others had generated. It is 
worth  repeating  that  our  Governments  were  not  the 
ones  that  declared  a  default,  nor  were  they  the  ones 
that  had  assumed  the  debt;  we  were  simply  the  ones 
who shouldered the debt, as appropriate, and paid, from 
2003 to today, more than $190 billion — I repeat, more 
than $190 billion — by restructuring the defaulted debt 
with 92.4 per cent of creditors through two debt swaps, 
one carried out by President Kirchner in 2005 and the 
other carried out by me in 2010.
What  is  certain  is  that  we  were  successful.  We 
succeeded  because  92.4  per  cent  of  Argentina’s 
14-54711
47/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
creditors  regularized  their  situation.  We  began  to 
make  regular  payments,  and  not  only  to  them.  We 
also fully paid our debt to the International Monetary 
Fund  through  so-called  stand-by  arrangements.  We 
were  able  to  completely  cancel  our  debt  with  the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  A  few  months  ago,  we 
also  concluded  negotiations  with  the  Paris  Club  on 
a  debt  dating  back  to  1956.  It  was  so  long  ago  that  I 
was three years old when that debt was created and the 
Minister of the Economy of my country, who discussed 
the  restructuring  and  renegotiation  of  the  debt  with 
the Paris Club, was not even born. Yet we reached an 
agreement with 19 European Union finance ministers 
to finally restructure the debt. We are now paying the 
first phase of $642 million.
This  does  not  end  there.  We  also  regularized  the 
situation  with  the  rulings  of  the  International  Centre 
for  Settlement  of  Investment  Disputes  at  the  World 
Bank, which has begun hearings not for acts or actions 
committed  by  our  Government,  but  for  the  actions 
of  previous  Governments  that  ended  up  in  the  World 
Bank  tribunal.  We  have  also  resolved  that  issue,  just 
as we arrived at an arrangement with Repsol when we 
decided to regain control of our energy resources and 
expropriated 51 per cent of the oil company’s shares. We 
also restructured that debt and reached an agreement.
the  1950s 
We  have  done  all  this  with  our  own  resources, 
without  access  to  capital  markets  because  Argentina, 
due to the default of 2001, was denied access to capital 
markets.  This  represents  a  process  of  unprecedented 
social  inclusion.  Why  do  I  say  “unprecedented”? 
During 
inclusion 
processes in my country, but the difference is that we 
initiated  this  process  of  inclusion  after  complete  and 
utter bankruptcy. At the peak of default, we were able 
to overcome default, to include the people of Argentina 
and to enjoy social growth with inclusion. And today 
Argentina is extricating itself, and in addition we have 
one of the lowest debt ratios in the world.
there  were  similar 
The other leading case to which I referred and now 
wish to discuss is the emergence of the so-called vulture 
funds.  That  is  not  a  term  used  by  any  popular  South 
American  leader  or  by  any  African  ruler,  although 
African  countries  have  also  been  major  victims  of 
these vulture funds. One of the first global leaders to 
mention them was the former English Prime Minister 
Gordon Brown at the General Assembly in 2002. This 
expression  became  the  copyrighted  shorthand  for 
something  unworthy  and  immoral  that  kept  countries 
from  addressing  the  genuine  problems  of  education, 
health  and  poverty.  Today,  with  the  support  of  the 
judicial system of this country, Argentina is now being 
assaulted by these vulture funds.
What are these vulture funds? They represent the 
1 per cent of debt-holders that did not take part in the 
2005 restructuring. They could not participate because 
they had purchased bonds in 2008. As everyone knows, 
these  are  specialized  funds,  as  indicated  by  their 
names,  that  purchased  funds  or  shares  of  countries 
that  had  defaulted  on  their  debt  or  were  about  to  do 
so. Subsequently, they did not revert to the country in 
question for the payment of that debt, but brought suits 
in  various  jurisdictions  in  order  to  make  exorbitant 
profits. “Profits” is hardly the right word, because what 
has been recognized in a judgment passed down here 
in the jurisdiction of New York is that this 1 per cent 
grew at a rate of 1,608 per cent in a five-year period. 
Is there any business, undertaking or investor earning 
1,600 per cent in just five years? That is why they are 
called  vulture  funds.  Today,  they  are  obstructing  the 
recovery of that 92.4 per cent who trusted in Argentina.
I am therefore pleased that the Assembly has taken 
the bull by the horns, and I hope that between this year 
and next — before the General Assembly holds its new 
session in 2015 — we will have arrived at a regulatory 
framework  to  restructure  sovereign  debts.  The  point 
is  to  engage  in  an  exercise  in  active  and  constructive 
multilateralism  so  that  no  other  country  will  have  to 
experience  what  Argentina  —  a  country  that  has  the 
ability  and  willingness  to  pay  its  debts  despite  the 
harassment of these vulture funds — has been through.
These  vulture  funds  also  threaten  and  hold  the 
economy of our country hostage by provoking rumours, 
slander and libel from the personal to the economic and 
financial, so that they sometimes act as a destabilizing 
factor in the economy. Those who set bombs are not the 
only terrorists; those who destabilize the economy of a 
country and create poverty, misery and hunger through 
the sin of speculation are economic terrorists. That is 
what  we  want  to  spell  out.  That  is  why  we  strongly 
advocate the establishment of a multilateral convention 
soon  and  expeditiously,  not  just  for  Argentina,  but 
for  the  rest  of  the  world.  We  believe  that  a  financial 
and  economic  balance  that  addresses  the  social  and 
economic  disparities  among  countries  and  within 
societies  will  also  be  a  great  antidote  to  those  who 
recruit  young  people  who  have  no  hope  in  the  future 
and enrol them in crazy crusades. We must all lament 
48/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
that. We can see only the surface of the phenomenon; we 
also have to delve deeply into the causes that mobilize 
people.
We also talked about my country as a triple leading 
case on terrorism and security. My country is the only 
country of the Americas other than the United States of 
America that was the target of terrorist attacks: one in 
1992 when the embassy of Israel was blown up, and the 
second in 1994 when the headquarters of the Asociación 
Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA) was bombed. This 
year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  bombing 
of  AMIA.  I  dare  say  before  this  Assembly  —  in  the 
presence of some of the family members of the victims 
who have always been with us — that the Government 
headed by President Kirchner did the utmost and went 
the  greatest  lengths  to  uncover  the  real  culprits,  not 
only  because  it  opened  all  my  country’s  intelligence 
files and created a special prosecutor investigation unit, 
but  also  because,  when  in  2006  the  justice  system  of 
my country accused Iranian citizens of involvement in 
the bombing of AMIA, I myself was the only President 
who  dared  to  propose  asking  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran to cooperate with and assist in the investigation.
That  request  was  made  intermittently  from  2007  to 
2011, until the Islamic Republic of Iran finally agreed 
to  a  bilateral  meeting,  allowing  it  to  be  included  in 
the  agenda.  That  meeting  led  to  the  signing  by  both 
countries  of  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on 
legal cooperation that allowed for the Iranian citizens 
who had been accused, and who live in Tehran, to be 
deposed before the judge.
signed 
But  what  happened  when  we 
that 
memorandum?  It  seemed  as  if  all  hell  had  broken 
out,  both  nationally  and  internationally.  The  Jewish 
associations  that  had  sought  our  support  for  so  many 
years  and  that  had  come  here  with  us  to  ask  for  help 
turned against us, and when an agreement was finally 
reached  on  legal  cooperation  they  accused  us  of 
complicity with the State of Iran.
The same thing happened here in the United States. 
When  the  vulture  funds  lobbied  before  the  United 
States  Congress,  they  accused  us  of  collaborating 
with  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  which  at  the  time 
was  known  as  the  Terrorist  State  of  Iran.  They  even 
lobbied on their websites, posting pictures of me on the 
Internet  with  former  President  Ahmadinejad  as  if  we 
were business partners. Just this week, we learned that 
the iconic Waldorf Astoria hotel, in this city, was the 
setting for a meeting between the Secretary of State of 
this country and his Iranian counterpart.
We  are  not  criticizing  them.  Quite  the  contrary, 
anything  that  represents  dialogue  and  understanding 
seems very good to us. But we wish to ask those who 
have been accusing Iran of being a terrorist State — and 
I am not speaking here of the last century, but of last 
year — what they would say today about the members 
of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS), 
many  of  whom  not  so  long  ago  were  called  freedom 
fighters  when  they  were  fighting  in  Syria  against  the 
Government  of  Bashar  Al-Assad.  And  this  is  where 
I  believe  we  have  another  problem  with  respect  to 
security and terrorism. The major Powers too often and 
too easily seesaw from the concept of friend to enemy, 
and terrorist to non-terrorist. We need to agree once and 
for  all  not  to  use  international  politics  or  geopolitical 
positions to determine positions of power. I say that as 
a militant opponent of international terrorism.
By the way, just to add a touch of color, ISIS has 
apparently issued a threat against me that is under legal 
investigation in my country. The threat apparently has 
two justifications: first, because of my close relationship 
with His Holiness Pope Francis, and secondly, because 
I recognize the need for two States, Israel and Palestine. 
While I am at it, let me reiterate my call on the Assembly 
to recognize Palestine once and for all as a State with 
full membership in this body. We have to begin to undo 
some of the Gordian knots — because there is not just 
one Gordian knot but several — regarding the situation 
in  the  Middle  East,  which  involves  recognizing  the 
State of Palestine, Israel’s right to live securely within 
its borders, and Palestine’s right not to be subjected to 
the kind of disproportionate use of force that led to the 
deaths of hundreds of women and children, which we 
condemn  just  as  we  also  condemn  those  who  attack 
Israel with missiles.
In a time of economic vultures and hawks of war, 
we need more doves of peace to build a safer world. We 
need more respect for international law and more equal 
treatment of those seated in this Hall. Just this morning, 
I overheard one leader refer to the use of force to attack 
the territorial integrity of a country.
Here  too,  the  Republic  of  Argentina  is  a  leading 
case.  For  more  than  100  years,  we  have  had  a  claim 
against the United Kingdom on a matter of sovereignty. 
We once again ask the Assembly to call on the United 
Kingdom  to  sit  down  with  Argentina  to  discuss  the 
14-54711
49/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
matter  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  Malvinas.  No  one 
cares and there is not a single veto from the Security 
Council,  because  Argentina  is  not  a  member  of  the 
Security Council and is not even among the countries 
that  decide  what  happens  in  the  world.  So  long  as 
that  continues,  and  so  long  as  the  votes  of  the  five 
permanent members of the Security Council are worth 
more  than  the  votes  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Ghana,  Kenya, 
Egypt, Uganda, Argentina, Bahrain or the United Arab 
Emirates, nothing will be resolved. We will just have 
the same speeches we hear every year without arriving 
at a resolution.
to 
take  back 
The  Assembly  must  fight 
the 
powers  it  delegated  to  the  Council,  since  —almost 
paradoxically — the Assembly has to ask the Council 
for permission on its decisions or on whether to admit 
a member. We need to reassert that the Assembly is a 
sovereign body of the United Nations, and that each of 
us  is  worth  one  vote  in  a  true  global  democracy.  Not 
everything will be resolved when that global democracy 
is respected to the letter, but I do believe it will mark 
the  beginning  of  a  solution.  I  am  neither  a  pessimist 
nor an optimist; I consider myself to be a realist. In any 
event, the child of pessimism and optimism is always 
optimism, but with realism. Optimism without realism 
is either ingenuity or cynicism. I do not wish to appear 
ingenuous or cynical before this audience.
I want to convey what we really think in my country. 
We have long demanded reform of the Security Council 
and  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  In  2003, 
reform the International Monetary Fund seemed almost 
inevitable; today, hardly anyone remembers the idea of 
reforming  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  because 
it no longer plays a central role in decisions. Even the 
International Monetary Fund itself and both its current 
head and former leaders, including Anne Krueger, are 
also calling for reforms with respect to the restructuring 
of sovereign debts. So long as there is no international 
treaty approved by this Assembly, no matter how many 
clauses  are  imposed  by  the  restructuring,  there  will 
always be a Judge Griesa somewhere in the world who 
says  that  they  are  meaningless,  and  who  will  end  up 
applying usurious taxes to bleed some poor country to 
death. That is what is happening, because it seems to 
me that they are trying to overturn the restructuring of 
sovereign debt for which the Argentine people worked 
so hard.
Before coming here I was in Rome, meeting with 
a  fellow  countryman  who  today  occupies  a  strong, 
exemplary religious and moral leadership. I would like 
to  offer  a  message  of  peace  and  of  peacebuilding.  If 
we  truly  wish  to  fight  terrorism,  then  let  us  work  for 
peace.  We  cannot  fight  the  terrorists  by  beating  the 
drums of war. Quite the contrary, that is exactly what 
they want — a symmetrical reaction so that the wheel 
again begins to turn and a price is paid in blood.
That is why I think it is important for us to think 
deeply  about  those  issues.  Above  all,  I  want  to  bring 
to  the  table  the  certainty  that  if  the  United  Nations 
recovers  its  leadership,  if  the  Assembly  resumes  its 
mandate, when too many countries fail to comply with 
international law, even though they require others to do 
so, then I am certain that we will have made a major 
contribution  to  peacebuilding  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism from which no one would have been left out. 
But  we  have  to  leave  to  our  children  a  much  better 
world than the one we have today.
threats 
Finally, I wish to recall that a year ago the problems 
were  different.  A  year  ago,  we  were  discussing  other 
problems,  other 
to  security.  Times  have 
changed. The wrongdoers of yesterday do not seem so 
bad  today.  Those  who  should  have  been  invaded  and 
crushed  a  year  ago,  today  seem  to  be  cooperating  to 
fight  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS). 
First,  it  was  Al-Qaida,  and,  I  wonder,  where  did 
Al-Qaida and the Taliban spring from? Where do they 
get their weapons and resources? My country does not 
produce  weapons.  Who  sells  arms  to  those  groups? 
Then  there  was  the  Arab  Spring,  which  ended  up  by 
being not so much a spring as a fall and even a winter. 
Those  involved  went  from  being  freedom-fighters  to 
being  persecuted  or  imprisoned.  Now  there  is  ISIS,  a 
new terrorist organization that carries out beheadings 
on television on a carefully set stage. What is causing 
all this, I wonder? Where is this coming from? I have 
become  really  distrustful  of  everything  after  seeing 
what is happening in the world today — real-life scenes 
that make fictional series look trivial.
It is therefore worth asking ourselves why it is that 
we  are  facing  ever-greater  problems —  problems  that 
caused the Pope to comment that there is practically a 
third world war. That is true. It is a world war but not 
along  the  lines  of  the  more  conventional  wars  of  the 
twentieth  century.  There  are  hotspots  where  the  only 
victims  are  civilian  populations.  That  is  why,  a  few 
minutes  from  now  in  the  Security  Council,  of  which 
Argentina is a non-permanent member, we wish to raise 
some of those issues. We have no certainties, no absolute 
50/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
truths,  but  we  have  many  questions.  We  want  to  put 
them to those who possess a lot more information than 
we do, far more data and far more extensive networks of 
information than my country has. Heaven forbid that, 
with all those data, they have a wealth of information 
but can understand little of what is happening. For they 
have to be able to comprehend what is happening if they 
are to come up with a definitive solution.
I deeply appreciate once again the political will of 
the 124 countries that supported resolution 68/304. As 
everyone  knows,  there  was  pressure  to  keep  us  from 
getting  that  number  of  supporters  or  having  a  vote, 
but I think that the exercise of practical, effective and 
democratic  multilateralism  that  the  adoption  of  the 
resolution represents demonstrates that all is not lost. 
On the contrary, it is in the hands of each and every one 
of us, each of our countries, to find real and effective 
solutions to the problems the world has today.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Argentine Republic for the statement she has just 
made.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President returned to the Chair.
Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoǧan, President 
of the Republic of Turkey
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Turkey.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, President of the 
Republic  of  Turkey,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Erdoǧan  (spoke  in  Turkish;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  greet 
the  Assembly  respectfully,  and  I  hope  that  its  sixty-
ninth  session  will  provide  favourable  results  for  all 
countries,  peoples  and  humankind.  I  would  like  to 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as the President 
of the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session and to thank 
Mr. John William Ashe for his work as President at the 
sixty-eighth session.
The  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  being  held  on  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
First  World  War,  which  broke  out  in  1914.  We  sadly 
see that lands affected by the First World War are still 
deprived  of  stability,  peace  and  prosperity  even  after 
a century. A wide area — ranging from Iraq to Syria, 
from  Palestine  to  Yemen,  from  Libya  to  Afghanistan 
and to Ukraine — is witnessing scenes that leave deep 
scars  on  the  conscience  of  humankind.  People  still 
die  from  hunger  and  communicable  diseases  in  the 
twenty-first century. Children and women are brutally 
murdered  in  wars.  The  poor  countries  struggle  with 
hunger, malnutrition, communicable diseases and lack 
of  education,  while  the  rich  countries  of  the  world 
enjoy prosperity. Climate change poses a major threat 
to the future of our world and that of our children. That 
situation,  which  is  a  stain  on  human  dignity,  directly 
concerns all of humankind and therefore, of course, the 
United Nations.
Let  me  again,  at  this  sixty-ninth  session,  stress 
that no one is innocent in a world in which children are 
killed, no one is safe, and no one can enjoy peace and 
prosperity. In the past year alone, 6.3 million children 
under five years of age lost their lives worldwide. As 
a result of the war in Syria, 17,000 children have died, 
375,000 have been injured, and 19,000 have lost at least 
one body part.
This  year  490  children  were  killed  and  3,000 
were  injured  as  direct  targets  of  the  most  modern 
and  murderous  weapons  used  against  the  Gaza  Strip 
in  Palestine.  As  they  played  on  a  beach,  ran  around 
in a park, took refuge in a mosque or school, or were 
comforted in their mothers’ laps, they were mercilessly 
killed  in  front  of  cameras  and  before  the  eyes  of  the 
world.  We  also  see  that  those  attempting  to  draw  the 
world’s attention to the deaths of women, children and 
the disabled in Palestine are being variously labelled by 
others. Those objecting to the murders in Iraq and Syria 
and the murder of democracy in Egypt are again being 
subjected to certain unfair and groundless accusations 
and  almost 
immediately  accused  of  supporting 
terrorism.
The  global  conscience  is  aware  that  those  who 
are  ruthlessly  criticizing  some  countries  for  lack  of 
freedom  of  the  press  are  ignoring  the  16  journalists 
killed in Palestine and the pressure put on members of 
the media. I will speak very clearly. Those who stand 
by and remain unresponsive to the killing of children, 
14-54711
51/53
A/69/PV.6 
24/09/2014
the vicious murder of women and the overthrow with 
weapons  and  tanks  of  Governments  that  have  come 
to  power  through  the  will  of  the  people  are  openly 
participating in those crimes against humanity.
Even more significant, the modern world’s double 
standard  leads  to  substantial  and  serious  distrust 
among  many  people.  That  feeling  of  distrust  affects 
the United Nations — where we are today — and other 
international  organizations  and  threatens  the  sense  of 
justice,  while  filling  millions  of  people  with  despair. 
That distrust plays a principal role in fuelling the growth 
of  international  terrorism  today.  The  double  standard 
with regard to the oppressed and the indifference to the 
killing of children help to foment terrorism around the 
world. Those who lose hope in the United Nations and 
other international organizations are desperate and are 
helpless to resist the clutches of terrorists.
The  problems  in  Iraq  have  wrought  havoc  among 
the  Iraqi  people.  More  recently,  the  difficulties  have 
spread  beyond  Iraq’s  borders.  Unfortunately,  Iraq  has 
now  become  a  haven  for  terrorist  organizations.  The 
current crisis in Iraq directly affects the countries in the 
region, particularly Turkey. Given the newly established 
Government in Iraq, it is our hope that Iraq will make 
a fresh start. Turkey will stand by the Iraqi people in 
their search for peace and stability. Likewise, the Syrian 
crisis is spilling over the borders of that country. The 
unresolved  issue  of  half  a  century  —  Palestine  —  is 
already a root cause of many problems in the region.
Implementing  a  two-State  solution,  lifting  the 
blockade against Gaza and establishing an independent, 
viable State of Palestine alongside Israel is a political, 
human  and  moral  necessity.  Many  have  spoken  about 
a  two-State  solution  from  this  rostrum.  However, 
speaking  about  it  is  not  sufficient.  It  is  high  time  to 
act. It is no longer appropriate simply to talk about the 
issue  —  we  must  advance  beyond  that.  Thousands  of 
people are dying while we talk instead of acting. I think, 
at this point, it is a sad indication of the limits of our 
sense of responsibility here at the United Nations. We 
must  therefore  move  forward.  We  must  address  these 
problems  at  the  United  Nations  without  any  further 
delay in order to prevent more deaths of innocent people 
and arrive at a solution.
Let me also say that the world is larger than the five 
permanent members of the Security Council. The fact 
that they have rendered the United Nations ineffective, 
despite the situation in the world, must not be accepted 
by  the  global  conscience.  Otherwise,  decisions  taken 
at the United Nations will depend on a single country. 
That is, if one country disagrees, then a decision will not 
be taken or implemented. The United Nations failed to 
find a solution as more than 2,000 innocent people were 
killed  within  only  two  months  in  Palestine.  In  Syria, 
the United Nations failed to find effective solutions as 
more  than  200,000  people  were  killed  and  more  than 
9 million people were displaced in the past four years.
I find it strange that we focus on issues selectively. 
If  2,000  people  are  killed  by  chemical  weapons,  then 
we  focus  on  chemical  weapons,  and  we  consider  the 
killing  of  2,000  people  by  chemical  weapons  to  be  a 
crime. But what about the killing of 200,000 people by 
conventional weapons — is that not a crime? I cannot 
understand such an approach or such a mentality. Let us 
clarify our thinking. Let it be understood that the use 
of any kind of weapon leading to the deaths of people 
is a crime, whether by chemical or conventional means.
The  elected  President  in  Egypt  was  overthrown 
by  a  coup.  Thousands  of  people  wanted  to  defend 
their electoral choice and were killed. Yet, the United 
Nations  and  democratic  countries  have  done  nothing 
but stand by while those events unfolded and the person 
who  conducted  the  coup  was  legitimized.  If  we  wish 
to  speak  meaningfully  of  democracy,  then  we  should 
respect the choice of the people at the ballot box. If, on 
the other hand, we intend to defend people who come 
to power via a coup, then I must call into question the 
whole existence of the United Nations.
terrorism  and  migration 
The  United  Nations  is  also  unable  to  take  an 
effective  stance  in  the  face  of  uncontrolled  events, 
such  as 
in  Iraq.  This 
silence,  desperation  and  unresponsiveness  can  no 
longer  continue.  We  need  more  efficient  and  speedy 
decision-making  mechanisms  if  we  are  to  be  able  to 
address  global  and  regional  problems.  Furthermore, 
the  United  Nations  should  act  more  courageously  in 
standing up for the right side of the issues.
Let  me  point  out  another  problem.  We  do  not 
approve  of  any  kind  of  terrorism  that  is  supposedly 
carried out in the name of religion, and we believe that 
such acts are hugely disrespectful to all religions. We 
strongly condemn tying Islam, which means peace, to 
terrorism.  It  is  highly  offensive  that  Islam  and  terror 
are spoken of together. Similarly, those who call their 
inhuman  acts  Islamic  are  offending  the  religion  of 
Islam, every other religion, and humankind generally.
52/53 
14-54711
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.6
Turkey  has  been  trying  very  hard  to  build  peace 
and prosperity in the region. We do not interfere in the 
internal affairs of any country; we respect and support 
the territorial integrity of every country in the region. 
Regarding the question of Palestine and Israel, we have 
been  working  to  try  to  achieve  a  two-State  solution 
based on peace and mutual respect. Our sensitivity to 
this issue is based on the principle that the right to live 
of every human being is sacred.
We  have  approached  the  problems  in  our  region 
on  humanitarian  and  moral  grounds  alone,  heedless 
of  race,  religion,  sect  or  interests.  Our  country  is 
sheltering  1.5  million  people  who  have  had  to  leave 
Syria,  and  mostly  from  our  own  resources.  Let  me 
repeat, 1.5 million refugees are in my country. As the 
host country, we are providing them with food, medicine 
and education. As for support from the rest of the world, 
there has not been much, unfortunately. So far we have 
spent more than $3.5 billion on the Syrian refugees in 
our country. Of the roughly 4 million Syrian refugees 
in  the  world,  1.5  million  are  in  Turkey,  with  the  rest 
in  Jordan,  Lebanon,  Iraq,  Egypt  and  other  countries. 
By  contrast,  I  would  like  to  ask  what  the  strong  and 
rich  countries  of  Europe  are  doing.  So  far  they  have 
sheltered only 130,000 Syrian refugees — 130,00 in all 
of Europe, while in Turkey alone we have 1.5 million, 
plus  the  2.5  million  in  the  other  countries  I  just 
mentioned.
The  crisis  in  Syria  has  become  a  regional  and 
global issue, so much so that it is impossible to remain 
indifferent to it, whether for political or humanitarian 
reasons.  On  top  of  this,  we  have  treated  102  injured 
civilians  from  Gaza  in  our  hospitals.  Turkey  has  also 
taken  in  30,000  Yazidis  fleeing  Iraq,  and,  just  before 
I came to New York, we opened our borders to Kurds 
fleeing Syria. It was Turkey who gave them humanitarian 
aid. In the past five days alone, the number of Syrian 
refugees entering our country exceeded 150,000.
Five  hundred  years  ago,  we  opened  our  doors  to 
Jews  who  had  been  expelled  from  Europe.  We  have 
always protected the rights of Christians in Europe, and 
today we are still opening our arms to those in need, 
regardless  of  their  religion,  race  or  sect.  I  am  proud 
to say that Turkey allocates 2.1 per cent of its national 
income  to  humanitarian  aid,  and  as  such  has  become 
one  of  the  most  generous  countries  in  the  world.  In 
addition,  thanks  to  the  experience  we  have  gained 
throughout  history,  we  have  always  maintained  our 
objectivity regarding terrorism, sectarian conflicts and 
other crises, and we have always based our approach on 
the defence and protection of people’s rights.
I  would  like  to  point  out  here  that  Turkey  is  not 
a  country  that  supports  or  condones  terrorism.  We 
have  fought  terrorism,  because  we  suffered  from  it 
for  30  years,  and  are  still  suffering  from  it.  Turkey 
is  also  strongly  against  every  kind  of  anti-Semitism, 
Islamophobia  and  racism.  I  have  said  myself  that 
anti-Semitism is a crime against humanity, and I may 
be one of the few political leaders who has so clearly 
expressed this to the world. Similarly, the whole world 
should accept that Islamophobia is also a crime against 
humanity.
Turkey would like to see a solution to the problem in 
Cyprus. We would like to see an end to the occupation 
of territories in Azerbaijan. We have always voiced our 
strong support for the territorial integrity of Ukraine. 
We  stand  ready  to  support  regional  and  global  peace 
at all costs, and we will continue to be a unique friend 
to  our  friends.  We  will  always  stand  firm  against 
terrorists, oppressors and killers, especially the killers 
of children. We will fight for democracy and prosperity 
with  all  our  heart  and  soul.  We  are  always  ready  to 
join forces with other countries within the framework 
of those ideals and on this common path, and that, of 
course,  is  the  kind  of  cooperation  that  humankind  is 
seeking today.
In that context, I should also say that we look to the 
General  Assembly  to  support  Turkey  in  its  candidacy 
for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council, and 
we thank the countries that are backing us. To that end, 
I hope that the sixty-ninth session of the Assembly will 
begin the work of wiping away the tears, blood, poverty 
and injustice staining the face of the Earth. I wish the 
Assembly and its President, Mr. Kutesa, every success, 
and  I  would  like  to  convey  my  country’s  sincerest 
greetings to all the nations represented here.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Turkey 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 3.35 p.m.
14-54711
53/53
