United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
5th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 23 September 2014, 5 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Phipps (United 
States), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m.
World Conference on Indigenous Peoples
Agenda item 65 (continued)
Rights of indigenous peoples
High-level plenary meeting of the 
General Assembly to be known as the 
World Conference on Indigenous Peoples
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Deputy Secretary-General.
The Deputy Secretary-General: I am Jan Eliasson. 
I am the Deputy Secretary-General, and I send warm 
greetings 
from  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who  has  been  closely  following  the  historic  World 
Conference on Indigenous People, together with me and 
all our colleagues. We welcome representatives warmly 
to New York to this important meeting.
The first three words of the Charter of the United 
Nations, which I always carry in my pocket, is “We the 
peoples”. And even if we are an organization of States 
working under intergovernmental rules, we must never 
forget that we are here to serve the peoples — peoples 
who  deserve  peace,  development,  human  rights,  the 
rule of law and a life of dignity.
I  have  followed  the  fates  of  indigenous  peoples 
throughout my life and my career, and I am extremely 
happy  to  see  their  representatives  in  this  Hall.  It  was 
a  bumpy  ride  to  get  to  this  Conference,  but  now  the 
representatives  are  assembled  here,  and  I  am  very 
glad  that  they  have  succeeded  in  coming  together  on 
an  outcome  document  (resolution  69/2)  that  sets  the 
direction ahead.
But  the  work  has  just  begun.  We  have  a  long 
way  to  go,  and  we  should  hurry  up  on  that  road.  We 
hope that when representatives go back to their home 
countries and environments and to all their friends at 
home, they will carry the torch and take with them the 
best  of  this  meeting  and  of  the  common  experiences 
that  representatives  have  shared.  I  think  this  meeting 
offers  a  huge  possibility  for  networking,  allowing 
representatives  to  also  see  the  collective  strength  of 
reaching  out  to  their  colleagues  and  friends  in  other 
parts of the world. I want representatives to know that 
we are their partners, that we want to stand up for every 
human being’s equal value in the world, and that they 
have been left behind for far too long.
I will now move on to my formal speech. That was 
my introduction. I am very glad to be in this Hall at this 
moment.  I  am  also  very  grateful  that  representatives 
could hear my remarks now because I have a number 
of  other  meetings.  As  representatives  know,  we 
have  a  meeting  of  huge  importance  for  them  —  the 
climate meeting. And I am going back to it after this 
introduction.
This Conference builds on the work done and  the 
results achieved since the adoption of the Declaration 
on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  seven  years  ago. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54561 (E)
*1454561*
A/69/PV.5 
23/09/2014
That  Declaration  is  our  foundation  and  guiding  star. 
The  Conference  outcome  document  is  our  inspiration 
and  path  ahead.  Working 
indigenous 
peoples  and  Member  States  have  identified  important 
priorities  and  necessary  actions  on  issues  such  as 
land, resources, justice systems, education, health and 
development — areas that affect the daily life of all the 
people concerned.
together, 
I  am  very  much  a  human  rights  advocate,  and 
human  rights  are  at  the  core  of  our  efforts.  I  am 
especially pleased that the outcome document focuses 
on 
indigenous  women,  youth  and  persons  with 
disabilities.  I  commend  all  representatives  for  their 
tireless work and for finalizing this very positive and 
forward-looking text. I am from Sweden. I once worked 
for a Prime Minister who said that every society should 
be judged by how it deals with the most vulnerable and 
exposed of its peoples, as that is how one can gauge the 
quality of life of a society. We should keep this in mind.
Today, I hope, we will celebrate the achievements 
of  this  unprecedented  Conference.  But  we  will  also 
be  remembering  that,  globally,  indigenous  peoples 
continue  to  lag  behind  in  terms  of  education,  health, 
employment  and,  sadly,  even  life  expectancy,  as 
statistics  can  prove.  The  Secretary-General  and  I 
intend to deal with those problems by building on the 
momentum  representatives  have  generated  already, 
for which we are extremely grateful. We can sense the 
momentum in this Hall, what the representatives have 
given  to  the  city  of  New  York,  and  the  fact  that  this 
meeting at the United Nations coincides with so many 
other meetings bringing world leaders to this city and 
this country.
We  want  to  engage  the  indigenous  peoples  even 
more  actively  across  the  United  Nations  system.  The 
United Nations is now in the middle of identifying, as 
many  representatives  know,  our  global  development 
priorities  beyond  2015.  We  are  now  in  the  end  phase 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  era,  and  we 
have approximately 450 days left to achieve those eight 
Goals. Sadly enough, we will not achieve several of the 
Goals.  We  will  now  identify  the  new  set  of  goals.  It 
is essential, in my view, that the issues of indigenous 
peoples  are  part  of  the  new  agenda.  That  agenda 
should  support  their  broader  aspirations  and  those  of 
representatives  for  sustainable  development,  in  line 
with their rights and priorities.
The  future  we  want  values  and  seeks  to  preserve 
diversity. The future we want requires more equitable 
and sustainable use of the world’s resources. We need 
to be at peace with nature. I have mediated in conflicts, 
I have been in humanitarian crisis situations, but what 
I really would like to do is to attend a negotiation on 
peace  with  nature.  It  is  difficult,  though,  to  see  who 
will sit on the other side of the table. I am sure many 
of  the  representatives  in  this  Hall  could  represent  the 
side of nature in the negotiations. Finally, the future we 
want is one where all indigenous peoples realize their 
human  rights.  The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  of  1948  should  be  obligatory  reading  in  every 
school  around  the  world.  It  opens  up  both  the  beauty 
of  the  individual’s  political  and  civil  rights  and  also 
economic and social rights.
In  closing,  the  World  Conference  on  Indigenous 
Peoples shows what we can do when we unite, not only 
as Member States, but also as “We the peoples”. Nobody 
can  do  everything,  but  everybody  can  do  something. 
Let us never forget that. And let us remember that the 
United  Nations  is  a  reflection  of  two  realities.  The 
United Nations is a reflection of the world as it is, and 
it  is  not  a  pretty  place.  We  have  conflicts.  We  have 
inequalities.  We  have  poverty.  We  have  violations  of 
human rights.
So that is one reality — the world as it is. But the 
United  Nations  is  also  a  reflection  of  the  world  as  it 
should be, and our job is, for all of us in this room and 
for all of us who serve this Organization and who serve 
the peoples of the world, to diminish the gap between 
the world as it is and the world as it should be. We will 
not be able to bridge the gap, unfortunately — let us be 
realistic — but we can diminish it, even if only by an 
inch. Again, everybody can do something.
Now it is our collective responsibility, as Member 
States,  indigenous  peoples,  United  Nations  agencies, 
funds and programmes, civil society, the private sector 
and the academic world, to transform the Declaration 
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (resolution 61/295) 
into reality. That requires determination, tenacity, the 
appropriate  legal  framework,  human  and  institutional 
capacities, and, finally, political will. As the Assembly 
heard  Al  Gore  say  this  morning,  political  will  is  a 
renewable resource. We can renew, strengthen and even 
double the political will that is needed.
Participants  here  today  are  the  catalysts,  bearers 
and witnesses of this process, and I count on them, as 
partners with the United Nations, to deal with a better 
future for all in this world. We need to work for a life of 
dignity for all. A life of dignity for all is the theme of 
2/9 
14-54561
23/09/2014 
A/69/PV.5
the Secretary-General’s report on the post-2015 process 
(A/68/202), and we should keep that in mind. I thank 
them all for their attention, their work and the work that 
they will do. We are in this together. Let us go to work.
the  Deputy 
The  Acting  President:  I 
thank 
Secretary-General for his statement.
As previously announced, the Assembly will now 
hear presentations by the co-chairs of interactive round 
table  discussions  1,  2  and  3  and  the  interactive  panel 
discussion.
I  give 
to  Mr.  Ghazali  Ohorella, 
representative  of  the  Pacific  indigenous  region  and 
co-chair of interactive round table discussion 1.
the  floor 
Mr.  Ohorella:  Yesterday  we  were  served  with  a 
delicious  discourse  provided  by  States,  indigenous 
peoples and United Nations agencies, programmes and 
funds. It was a luau feast of liberation and freedom.
In the Pacific, we know that one can paddle over 
great distances when many paddles are moving together. 
If  we  continue  in  this  spirit,  our  work  will  no  longer 
seem impossible but, as I said in my opening statement, 
rather inevitable. I had the pleasure of co-chairing the 
session with Mrs. Edita Hrdá, Permanent Representative 
of  the  Czech  Republic,  with  a  panel  that  consisted  of 
Ms.  Victoria  Tauli  Corpuz,  Special  Rapporteur  on 
the Rights of Indigenous Peoples; Mr. Atencio López, 
representative of the Central and South American and 
Caribbean region; and Mr. Kanayo Nwanze, President 
of the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
as keynote speakers, with a large number of indigenous 
participants,  United  Nations  agencies  and  Member 
States.
A consistent refrain during the discussion was that 
the new collective consciousness can close the chasm 
and ensure that indigenous peoples do not slip through 
the cracks at the United Nations. Various participants 
underlined  that  the  World  Conference  on  indigenous 
Peoples  and  its  outcome  document  (resolution  69/2) 
marked  a  milestone  for  the  United  Nations  system’s 
work with indigenous peoples on issues that affect them. 
There was broad consensus that, with the adoption of 
the  World  Conference’s  outcome  document,  the  time 
has come for the United Nations system to move from 
normative discussions on indigenous peoples’ issues to 
action and the integration of indigenous peoples in the 
United Nations work at all levels.
the 
Participants  also  stressed 
importance  of 
indigenous peoples’ full and equal participation in the 
United Nations system. They provided examples of how 
this could be done through, first, ensuring indigenous 
peoples’  participation 
in  various  decision-making 
governance structures at the local, national, regional and 
international  levels;  secondly,  recognizing  indigenous 
peoples’  governments  and  high-level  officials  by 
providing adequate United Nations status; and, thirdly, 
ensuring  that  there  are  United  Nations  staff  members 
with indigenous backgrounds.
In line with the outcome document, several speakers 
called for the appointment of a senior indigenous United 
Nations official at the level of Under-Secretary-General 
to oversee the implementation of the Declaration on the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  61/295)  and 
to raise awareness of indigenous peoples’ issues within 
the United Nations system and beyond.
A  key  focus  of  several  speakers  was  the  United 
Nations  system’s  work  on  indigenous  peoples  at  the 
regional  and  national  levels.  The  participants  heard 
examples of how regional and national United Nations 
mechanisms,  including  the  regional  commissions  and 
the  United  Nations  country  teams,  can  ensure  that 
indigenous  peoples  are  part  of  the  development  and 
strategizing of programmes and activities in a structured 
and coherent manner, including in the United Nations 
Development  Assistance  Frameworks,  and  by  using 
the  United  Nations  Development  Group’s  “Guidelines 
on  Indigenous  Peoples’  Issues”  and  ensuring  the 
availability of relevant disaggregated data.
Numerous  speakers  also  committed 
to  fully 
supporting a system-wide action plan to ensure a coherent 
approach to achieving the ends of the Declaration, and 
we  look  forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  to 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
Recommendations  were  made  on  establishing  the 
oversight  mechanism  as  a  monitoring  mechanism  for 
the implementation of the Declaration. Some speakers 
called  for  the  establishment  of  a  new  United  Nations 
mechanism  tasked  with  overseeing  the  Declaration’s 
implementation,  while  others  referred  to  updating 
existing ones and strengthening the work of the United 
Nations treaty bodies on indigenous peoples’ issues.
The  call  to  strengthen  the  Inter-Agency  Support 
Group on Indigenous Peoples’ Issues was another key 
point of discussion. Speakers alluded to the need for the 
Support Group to become more effective through more 
14-54561
3/9
A/69/PV.5 
23/09/2014
frequent  meetings  with  higher-level  United  Nations 
officials.
We  recognize  a  new  era  of  empowerment  and 
engagement, moving beyond what is wrong to what we 
want for our world as we work together. We are already 
walking  forward  towards  ensuring  our  fundamental 
freedoms, and we recognize the wisdom of calling for 
indigenous  ambassadors.  We  welcome  the  presence 
and  participation  of  the  newly  appointed  United 
States Ambassador to the Human Rights Council and 
Cherokee native, Mr. Keith Harper.
It is clear that when indigenous peoples hold their 
lands in their own hands, this will lead to a realization of 
their rights. Indigenous peoples must be the protagonists 
of their own development processes and responsible for 
the  measurement  of  their  own  progress.  Indigenous 
peoples are the canary in the coal mine of the world. We 
are the mercury in the barometer of the successes and 
failures of the United Nations. The round table offered 
us a map to the stars where we can realize the dreams of 
our ancestors. In fact, we see the pledges and promises 
as providing action. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s 
closing  words  yesterday  morning  were:  “You  will 
always have a home at the United Nations”.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  David  Choquehuanca  Céspedes, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Plurinational State 
of  Bolivia  and  co-chair  of  interactive  round  table 
discussion 2.
Mr. Choquehuanca Céspedes (Plurinational State 
of  Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  greet  the  Assembly 
today  by  saying  “Jayaya”,  which,  in  Quechua,  means 
“To life!”
I am sorry for the delay in this wrap-up meeting. 
Indeed, we should learn from our indigenous brothers 
and sisters that when a lawyer makes an appointment 
with an indigenous woman at 3 p.m., she will show up 
at 2.45 p.m., and the lawyer will show up at 4 p.m. We 
should  learn  something  from  our  indigenous  brothers 
and sisters.
I  am  going  to  present  a  summary  of  the  work  of 
round  table  2  on  the  implementation  of  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples  at  the  national  and  local  levels. 
Round  table  2  was  held  on  Monday,  22  September 
2014, from 3 to 6 p.m. The round table focused on the 
implementation  of  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  at 
the national and local levels.
In  their  presentations,  several  States  reaffirmed 
their  support  for  the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples. Many participants also welcomed 
the  final  document  and  made  note  of  the  specific 
commitments  regarding  the  measures  to  be  adopted 
by  States  and  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  the 
implementation  of  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  at 
the national and local levels.
including 
indigenous  peoples, 
At  the  same  time,  some  participants  raised  the 
concern  that  some  issues  were  not  reflected  in  the 
final  document.  Both  Member  States  and  indigenous 
representatives  stated  that  there  had  been  progress  at 
the  national  level  in  the  implementation  of  the  rights 
of 
the  recognition 
of  indigenous  peoples  and  their  rights  in  national 
constitutions,  laws,  policies  and  programmes.  The 
identified  examples  covered  a  number  of  rights, 
including the rights to self-determination and autonomy, 
lands,  territories  and  natural  resources,  consultation 
and  free,  prior  and  informed  consent,  education  and 
indigenous languages  , health, rights-based treaties and 
reconciliation.  Examples  of  positive  measures  varied 
among States.
While  many  notable  advances  were  identified, 
participants  also  addressed  the  current  challenges  in 
the implementation of the rights of indigenous peoples 
across a range of issues and rights. Comments focused 
on  how  to  overcome  the  ongoing  challenges.  Several 
speakers referred to the need for an ongoing dialogue 
between Governments and indigenous peoples. In that 
regard, it was noted that the participation of indigenous 
peoples  in  parliaments  and  other  political  bodies  has 
been substantial, but that much remains to be done to 
strengthen such participation at the national and local 
levels.  Member  States  and  indigenous  representatives 
also referred to the importance of the development of 
action plans and policies relating to indigenous peoples 
and noted that the commitment in the final document in 
that respect is a positive step.
Several participants referred to the need for wider 
awareness  among  governmental  actors,  media  and 
society  in  general  in  order  to  change  discriminatory 
attitudes and prejudices against indigenous peoples in 
the societies in which they live. Those are obstacles to 
the realization of the rights of indigenous peoples. The 
issue of violence against women and girls and the need 
for concerted action by States and the United Nations to 
address it was also highlighted by several participants.
4/9 
14-54561
23/09/2014 
A/69/PV.5
Beyond  the  action  and  the  current  challenges  at 
national and local levels, participants in the round table 
also  addressed  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  system 
in  promoting  the  implementation  of  the  rights  of 
indigenous peoples and the measures which could taken 
to  strengthen  their  implementation.  The  provisions 
of  the  final  document  referring  to  the  participation 
of  indigenous  representatives  in  the  United  Nations 
were  noted  with  appreciation  by  the  Member  States 
and  indigenous  representatives.  In  addition,  several 
participants  noted  paragraphs  of  the  final  document 
as  to  the  measures  to  use,  modify  and  improve  the 
mechanisms of the United Nations in order to achieve 
the purposes of the Declaration.
In 
I  would 
ask 
conclusion, 
that  we 
all  —  representatives  of  States,  representatives  of 
leaders,  political 
indigenous  peoples, 
indigenous 
leaders  who  are  participating 
in 
important 
meeting — bring our energy to the task of ensuring that 
the rights of indigenous peoples are implemented and, 
if possible, strengthened, and ensuring that the United 
Nations  works  hard  towards  this  end.  Each  of  us  has 
positive energy that can be used for this purpose.. I am 
going to repeat,
(spoke in Quechua)
this 
Jayaya!
(spoke in Spanish)
I  would  like  all  of  us  —  because  each  one  of  us 
has energy — to push collectively for what the United 
Nations,  our  States  and  our  indigenous  leaders  are 
doing. We must join with them and support them — and 
not crush their action. We must support it and push for 
it. I say once again “Jayaya” because it means “to life”. 
Everything that indigenous people are doing is for life, 
brothers and sisters. Life comes first — everyone’s life, 
not  just  the  life  of  human  beings,  but  of  everything 
that exists in Pachamama, our Mother Earth. “Jayaya, 
brothers and sisters!”
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms.  Jannie  Lasimbang,  representative  of  the  Asia 
Indigenous  Region  and  Chair  of  the  interactive  panel 
discussion.
Ms. Lasimbang: I have the honour of presenting a 
short  summary  of  the  panel  discussion  on  indigenous 
priorities  for  the  post-2015  sustainable  development 
agenda which I co-chaired with Ms. Patricia Balbuena, 
Vice-Minister for Interculturality of Peru. We had three 
panel speakers, Mr. Wo Hongbo, from the Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs,  Ms.  Saudata 
Aboubacrine, representative of the African Indigenous 
Region,  and  Mr.  Albert  Deterville,  from  the  Expert 
Mechanism  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples. 
Despite our long list of speakers, we managed to hear 
from almost all of them in the panel discussion, thanks 
to their sticking to the three-minute time limit. 
I  will  be  brief.  I  am  just  going  to  present  some 
bullet points on the discussion and the conclusions that 
we have reached.
Among  the  important  aspects  that  are  necessary 
with respect to indigenous peoples and their priorities 
in the post-2015 sustainable development agenda is to 
secure the adequate inclusion of the rights of indigenous 
peoples  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The 
rights enshrined in the United Nations Declaration on 
the Rights of Indigenous Peoples should be the basis for 
their  inclusion.  Indigenous  peoples  should  participate 
actively in the development of policies and programmes 
and in the implementation of the post-2015 development 
agenda at the national and international levels. Specific 
indicators on indigenous peoples should be included in 
that agenda. It is not enough to simply add them to the 
list of vulnerable groups.
In  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development,  it 
is  imperative  to  be  respectful  of  indigenous  peoples’ 
development according to their own aspirations and to be 
respectful of their cultures and identities. The post-2015 
development agenda should also reflect what Member 
States agreed at this World Conference on Indigenous 
Peoples, in particular what we have committed to in the 
outcome document (resolution 69/2), that is, respect for 
the rights of indigenous peoples, including indigenous 
knowledge  to  sustain  the  environment  and  to  combat 
climate change.
It  is  also  very  important  to  recognize  the  rights 
to  lands,  territories  and  resources,  the  right  to  self-
determination  and  the  principle  of  free,  prior  and 
informed  consent  as  some  of  the  main  pillars  for 
achieving  sustainable  development  for 
indigenous 
peoples. The participation of indigenous youth, women 
and  persons  with  disabilities  should  be  guaranteed  in 
any  process  related  to  development,  and  the  human-
rights-based  approach 
to  development  should  be 
incorporated in the post-2015 development agenda.
Other  points  were  brought  up  by  the  speakers, 
including  the  need  to  develop  specific  indicators 
14-54561
5/9
A/69/PV.5 
23/09/2014
on  indigenous  peoples’  well-being  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Some  speakers  pointed  out  that 
the data with respect to indigenous peoples shows that 
they  are  lagging  behind  in  many  aspects  and  that  it 
is necessary to take action to improve their situation. 
Development  should  therefore  be  according  to  their 
own aspirations and needs.
Another  point  made  was  that  there  cannot  be 
development  if  indigenous  peoples’  rights  are  not 
included.  It  is  difficult  to  talk  about  the  development 
of indigenous peoples if, on a daily basis, they become 
victims  of  displacement  from  their  lands  and  their 
territories.
Those brief and salient points summarize what was 
discussed during our panel discussion.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms. Joan Carling, representative of the Asia Indigenous 
Region  and  co-chair  of 
table 
discussion 3.
interactive  round 
Ms. Carling: First of all, I feel privileged to have 
co-chaired  round  table  3  with  Mr.  Pita  Sharples  of 
New  Zealand.  During  round  table  3,  on  the  theme  of 
indigenous  peoples’  lands,  territories  and  resources, 
representatives  made  statements  on  the  following 
subjects.
First, indigenous peoples have a close relationship 
with their lands, territories and resources. It constitutes 
the heart of their collective survival and development and 
is linked to the survival of their identity and spiritual and 
cultural  well-being.  Indigenous  peoples’  relationship 
to  their  lands,  territories  and  resources  is  outlined  in 
various  articles  of  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on 
the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  61/295) 
and in various paragraphs of the outcome document of 
the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples (resolution 
69/2). However, speakers pointed out that there is a lack 
of recognition of indigenous peoples’ lands, territories 
and resources and a lack of recognition of indigenous 
peoples in general.
The  second  point  concerns  the  action  of  States 
and United Nations agencies. Some States have legally 
recognized  indigenous  peoples’  collective  land  rights 
and  have  taken  measures  to  protect  sacred  sites  and 
heritage  areas.  There  are  also  efforts  to  provide 
compensation for lands, territories and resources taken 
away from indigenous peoples.
The third point has to do with the implementation 
of  United  Nations  agencies’  programmes  that  address 
indigenous peoples’ sustainable resource management 
of  lands,  territories  and  resources  and  food  resources 
and  with  the  enhancement  of  biodiversity  and  food 
security.  Those  lands,  territories  and  resources  are 
threatened.  Indigenous  peoples  have  now  reached  a 
tipping point in their continuing collective survival as 
distinct peoples, along with their distinct identities and 
cultural  heritage,  due  to  dispossession,  destruction, 
militarization  and  continuing  threats  to  their  lands, 
territories and resources.
Colonization  has  affected  indigenous  peoples’ 
guardianship  of  their  lands,  territories  and  resources. 
For many decades, those issues have been the primary 
and  most  urgent  concern  for  indigenous  peoples.  In 
many instances, national laws allow for the occupation 
of indigenous peoples’ lands, territories and resources, 
and  that  has  led  to  forced  evictions,  land-grabbing, 
concession  permits  for  timber  plantations  and  mining 
and  other  extractive  industries  and  the  delineation  of 
national  parks  and  protected  areas  without  the  free, 
prior and informed consent of indigenous peoples. The 
continuing violation of the principle of free, prior and 
informed  consent  in  relation  to  lands,  territories  and 
resources is causing more poverty, marginalization and 
conflicts.
their 
Finally,  there  is  the  call  for  action.  First,  there 
must  be  legal  security  for  the  lands,  territories  and 
resources  of  indigenous  peoples  as  a  precondition  to 
achieving  sustainable  development,  and  that  includes 
the  protection  of 
traditional  occupations, 
livelihoods  and  sustainable  resource  management 
systems.  Partnerships  are  needed  between  indigenous 
peoples  and  Governments  at  the  global  and  national 
levels.  The  principle  of  free,  prior  and  informed 
consent must be immediately implemented, on the basis 
of the Declaration and the World Conference outcome 
document.  There  must  be  compensation  and  redress 
for  lands  illegally  taken  from  indigenous  peoples  and 
regulation of corporations that are violating indigenous 
peoples’ rights to their lands, territories and resources.
States  are  called  upon  to  immediately  establish 
independent and impartial processes to adjudicate and 
advance  indigenous  peoples’  rights  over  their  lands, 
territories, waters and natural resources, as reflected in 
the outcome document. States were called upon to take 
measures, including legislative measures, to implement 
the  rights  enshrined  in  the  Declaration.  There  is  an 
6/9 
14-54561
23/09/2014 
A/69/PV.5
urgent need to protect the remaining traditional grazing 
lands, hunting grounds, fishing waters, including coastal 
waters, and gathering areas, and to give priority to laws 
pertaining  to  lands,  waters,  territories  and  resources. 
The same recommendation applies to the commitment 
to develop and implement national action plans aimed 
at implementing the United Nations Declaration on the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
The Acting President: I should now like to consult 
members with a view to giving the floor to Mr. Setareki 
Macanawai, Indigenous Disabilities Representative. If 
there is no objection, may I take it that it is the wish of the 
General Assembly, and without setting a precedent, to 
invite Mr. Setareki Macanawai, Indigenous Disabilities 
Representative, to make a statement at this meeting?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
the  decision  just  taken,  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr. Macanawai.
Mr.  Macanawai:  I  am  speaking  today  on  behalf 
of  the  Indigenous  Persons  with  Disabilities  Global 
Network and the Global Disability Caucus, a Network 
representing indigenous persons with disabilities from 
all seven geopolitical regions of the indigenous peoples. 
At  this  juncture  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for the opportunity to address this 
forum to be the voice of the voiceless. 
Those of us who have been at the margins of society 
for a long time have been excluded and forgotten at the 
closing  this  historic  conference.  Indigenous  persons 
with disabilities face multiple types of discrimination 
and  barriers  to  participation  in  society,  including 
with  regard  to  access  to  development  programmes 
and  funding,  education,  employment,  health  care 
communication and transport services. As indigenous 
persons with disabilities, we are overrepresented among 
those  living  in  absolute  poverty,  and  we  continue  to 
exist as one of the world’s most vulnerable populations. 
It  is  for  that  reason  that  we,  both  the  Global 
Disabilities Network and the Global Disability Caucus, 
applaud  Member  States  for  adopting  the  outcome 
document  of  the  World  Conference  on  Indigenous 
People (resolution 69/2), which includes vital references 
to indigenous persons with disabilities in paragraphs 9, 
10  and  18.  The  inclusion  of  indigenous  persons  with 
disabilities  in  legislation  programmes,  disaggregation 
of  data  by  disability  status  and  a  commitment  to 
the  elimination  of  violence  and  discrimination  are 
key  challenges  faced  by  us  indigenous  people  with 
disabilities  today.  The  participation  and  inclusion 
of  persons  with  disabilities  should  be  central  to 
policymaking, programme implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of mechanisms addressing the rights of 
indigenous people. 
Only  an  inclusive  and  empowered  society  will 
ensure that no one is left behind. The commitment by 
Member States, enshrined in the outcome document, to 
ensure that national legislative forces and institutional 
structures relating to indigenous peoples are inclusive 
of indigenous persons with disabilities is indeed a strong 
step forward and in the right direction in recognizing 
and  promoting  those  rights.  The  development  of  the 
rights of indigenous persons with disabilities means that 
decisions are not taken without our full consultation and 
participation through our representative organizations. 
That development must also be in accordance with the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples  and  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons 
with Disabilities. 
I  would  like  to  stress  again  the  importance  of  a 
stand-alone  paragraph  on  indigenous  persons  with 
disabilities  in  the  outcome  document.  I  call  for  the 
disaggregation  of  data  on  disability  status,  which  is 
currently  recognized  in  the  work  leading  to  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  In  the  new  development 
agenda,  in  the  new  world  that  we  are  building, 
indigenous people and persons with disabilities must be 
included. To ensure that and to guarantee that we are not 
left  behind  once  again,  the  future  development  goals, 
targets and indicators must be inclusive of indigenous 
peoples and indigenous persons with disabilities. 
I  close  with  the  words  of  Desmond  Tutu:  “My 
humanity  is  bound  up  in  yours,  for  we  can  only  be 
human together.” 
The  Acting  President:  I  will  now  read  out  a 
statement  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Sam  Kahamba 
Kutesa, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session.
“As  we  come  to  the  closing  meeting  of  the 
historic World Conference on Indigenous Peoples, 
I am heartened to note the critical successes of this 
Conference,  which  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  inclusive  way  in  which  indigenous 
peoples of the world and Member States approached 
these discussions.
14-54561
7/9
A/69/PV.5 
23/09/2014
“At the outset, I would like to extend my deep 
appreciation  to  all  Conference  participants  for 
their  valuable  contributions,  including  Heads  of 
State and Government, Member State delegations, 
indigenous 
tribal 
governments and indigenous organizations, United 
Nations  system  representatives  and  civil  society. 
Without your active engagement and commitment 
to this endeavour, the Conference surely would not 
have yielded such positive results.
representatives  of 
elders, 
“Yesterday’s adoption by the General Assembly 
the  outcome  document 
(resolution  69/2) 
of 
signified  a  new  chapter  in  the  ongoing  dialogue 
and  engagement  between  indigenous  peoples  and 
Member States. It will serve as a guiding document 
going  forward,  building  on  the  commitments 
the 
international  community  previously  made 
in  the  foundation  document,  the  United  Nations 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
“There have been many outcomes from United 
Nations  conferences,  but  this  document  is  unique 
because of the inclusive way in which indigenous 
peoples  and  Member  States  turned  their  shared 
goals into a reality. Indigenous peoples insisted on 
such an inclusive process from the very beginning, 
and thanks to our collective efforts, we successfully 
met that aspiration. It was this inclusive approach 
that has made this Conference a success.
“The  outcome  document  represents  a  balance 
between what indigenous peoples sought as further 
commitments towards more effective realization of 
their  rights  and  what  Member  States  could  agree 
upon.  I  am  convinced  that  its  action-oriented 
provisions,  when  implemented,  will  bring  about 
sweeping changes for current and future generations 
of indigenous peoples.
“The  outcome  document  accords  importance 
to  national  actions  plans  and  to  a  system-wide 
action plan for greater coherence within the United 
Nations  system.  The  document  also  focuses  on 
the rights of indigenous women and addresses the 
intractable  problem  of  violence  against  women, 
which  must  be  at  the  top  of  the  agenda.  The 
document speaks eloquently to the challenges faced 
by  indigenous  youth,  the  difficulty  in  sustaining 
indigenous 
to  preserve 
indigenous  knowledge  and  the  requirement  to 
ensure  sustainable  livelihoods.  All  those  issues 
form  the  core  of  the  broad  and  integrated  agenda 
languages, 
the  need 
which  indigenous  people  have  called  for  over  the 
last two decades.
“In 
the  round-table  discussions,  speakers 
stressed the vital importance of implementing the 
provisions of the Declaration. Let me echo that call 
to  action.  Within  the  framework  of  the  emerging 
development paradigm, Member States, the United 
Nations system, civil society and the private sector 
must  join  in  a  collective  endeavour  to  make  a 
difference for indigenous peoples worldwide.
and 
commitment 
“I  wish  to  thank  the  four  advisers  to  the 
President  who  facilitated  this  conference.  The 
unwavering 
determination 
shown  by  Ambassador  Andrej  Logar  of  Slovenia, 
Ambassador  Marjon  Kamara  of  Liberia,  and  the 
two  indigenous  advisers,  Mr.  Les  Malezer  and 
Ms.  Mirna  Cunningham,  were  exemplary.  As  we 
conclude  this  Conference  here  today,  I  urge  each 
and  every  one  of  you  to  do  your  part  to  keep  the 
momentum  of  our  discussions  moving  forward  in 
a  positive  and  productive  manner.  The  signing  of 
the outcome document is a pivotal moment for our 
work and should stand as a beacon of our renewed 
commitment to ensuring the inclusion of indigenous 
issues in the future work of the United Nations.”
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pita 
Sharples,  Minister  of  Maori  Affairs  of  New  Zealand, 
who will deliver the closing prayer for this high-level 
meeting.
Mr. Sharples (New Zealand): I should note that I 
have just resigned from the New Zealand Government 
as Minister of Maori Affairs, so this is probably my last 
official  act  as  Minister,  but  perhaps  I  can  come  back 
next year to do the prayer.
To  all  those  who  were  present  at  the  meetings 
I  co-chaired,  and  whom  I  asked  to  hurry  up,  stop 
speaking and all those things, I promise I will take less 
than three minutes. Let us pray.
We thank you for your presence and your blessings 
upon us throughout this Conference. It is now with some 
humility that we ask for your guidance to advance this 
venture, to protect and promote the rights of indigenous 
persons within their respective nations to confront their 
challenges  and  meet  those  who  would  put  barriers  in 
their way. Where there is darkness, bring light; where 
there is ignorance, bring understanding; where there is 
arrogance,  bring  humility,  so  that  indigenous  persons 
can walk free and tall in their own cultural norms, and 
8/9 
14-54561
23/09/2014 
A/69/PV.5
participate fully in the life of their nations. And as we 
return home, we ask for your blessings so that we may 
be happily reunited with our families awaiting us.
The  Acting  President:  The  high-level  plenary 
meeting of the General Assembly to be known as the 
World Conference on Indigenous Peoples is now ended. 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 65.
The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.
14-54561
9/9
