United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
7th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 24 September 2014, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The President: The Assembly will hear an address 
by  the  Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational 
State of Bolivia.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President  of  the  Plurinatinal  State  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Mother Earth and humanity are suffering, stricken by 
the  environmental,  climate,  financial  and  food  crises 
generated  by  an  inhumane,  predatory  capitalism  that 
turns human life and Mother Earth into merchandise. 
Today we have an historic opportunity to build a new, 
different  world,  and  we  must  do  so  without  delay. 
The post-2015 agenda must express that mandate that 
Mother Earth and humanity demand of us.
We  welcome  the  proposal  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
that 
incorporates  the  proposals  of  Bolivia  and  the  peoples 
of the world to respect Mother Earth and the concept of 
harmony with nature. That is not a matter of a simple 
political  statement.  It  is  a  commitment  shared  with 
the entire world to change our visions of development 
to  a  more  comprehensive,  holistic  vision.  What  we 
propose  to  the  world  is  living  well,  in  harmony  with 
Mother Earth, and the construction of a culture of life, 
complementarity, solidarity and peace.
Respect  for  Mother  Earth  has  been  lost.  Today 
she is being marketed and manipulated, causing grave 
danger  to  life.  Now  as  at  no  other  time,  the  premise 
that man believes himself to be the lord and master of 
nature is more true than ever. Humankind, encouraged 
by  capitalism,  has  turned  everything  into  a  market, 
including genetic manipulation and the destruction of 
human beings.
life  and 
Human  and  natural 
their  happiness 
should be the reason why any vision, tool or focus for 
development  exists.  No  vision  of  development  makes 
sense if it does not respect or strengthen life. Economic 
growth  does  not  in  itself  lead  to  the  realization  of 
social rights and good living. The horizon of equality 
calls  for  the  distribution  of  wealth  and  the  economic 
and  political  empowerment  of  the  poor,  the  excluded 
and 
the  marginalized.  It  calls  for  strengthening 
communities and building societies with solidarity, not 
exclusive societies based on the accumulation of wealth 
and governed by money, covetousness and the avarice 
of the market.
Together with the Group of 77 and China, I must 
state  the  fundamental  importance  of  recovering  the 
sovereignty of our countries and peoples over our natural 
resources. It is only by recovering control of our natural 
resources that we will be able to garner greater benefits 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54765 (E)
*1454765*
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
for our peoples, in particular to eliminate poverty and 
to invest in economic diversification, industrialization 
and social programmes.
Each country has the right to decide on its priorities 
and strategies for development, but it is important that 
those strategies strengthen the environmental functions 
and the ecosystems of Mother Earth in the framework 
of  complementarity  and  mutual  support  between 
productive systems, communities and nature. It is vital 
to strike a balance between the rights of Mother Earth, 
the  right  to  development,  the  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples  and  social,  economic  and  cultural  rights,  as 
well  as  the  right  of  the  poor  to  emerge  from  poverty. 
Complementarity and mutual support, not commercial 
incentives, are instruments to preserve Mother Earth. 
On  this  point  we  differ  from  the  followers  of  the  so-
called green economy.
An important issue to be promoted in the framework 
of the post-2015 agenda is the human right to water and 
the right of Mother Earth to enjoy water for regenerating 
and reproducing life. Three billion people today live in 
areas  or  regions  where  the  demand  for  water  exceeds 
its  availability,  and  that  reality  will  worsen  as  years 
pass. By 2030 the demand for water will have increased 
by 30 per cent. In 2050, four billion people will suffer 
from critical scarcity of water in the context of climate 
change.
In  Bolivia,  in  accordance  with  human  right  to 
water  and  with  our  Constitution,  and  thanks  to  the 
national  programme  known  as  My  Water,  we  have 
already reached the Millennium Goals. We did so three 
years ahead of schedule. Declaring the human right to 
water means it cannot be privatized. Water is life, and 
it  cannot  be  an  object  of  profit  or  commercialization. 
Likewise,  to  resolve  serious  social  inequalities,  basic 
services such as water, electricity, telecommunications 
and  basic  sanitation,  as  well  as  education  and  health, 
must be a human right.
We  have  a  pending  agenda  to  eradicate  poverty 
and hunger, but for that we must also fight the pitiless, 
inhumane  forces  of  capital  and  the  market,  the 
omnipresent  power  of  banks  and  usurers  who  profit 
from  consumerism  and  hunger.  The  so-called  vulture 
funds  are  an  expression  of  that.  They  are  agents  of 
financial rapine who live off speculation, stealing from 
developing  countries  with  impunity,  taking  the  bread 
from the poor, extorting and defrauding with the help 
of  the  legal  systems  of  capitalism.  They  caused  the 
financial crisis and profited from it.
institutions,  such  as 
We  must  profoundly  change  the  exclusionary 
structures  of  financial 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank. 
That should be part of the transformation of the world 
financial  architecture.  Those  organizations  cannot  be 
governed only by developed countries, which, through 
clever  financial  strategies,  blackmail  and  oppress 
developing  countries,  especially  the  poorest.  That  is 
what we call eradicating financial colonialism.
In the world there still exists an offensive, abusive 
reality  —  the  1.3  billion  poor  people  and  more  than 
800  million  who  are  chronically  malnourished  —  as 
well  as  the  gaps  between  the  rich  and  the  poor.  That 
is  due  to  an  unequal  distribution  of  income,  but  also 
to an unequal and discriminatory access to wealth, to 
the  means  and  factors  to  live  well  and  to  enjoy  basic 
services. The increase in the number of hungry people 
in  the  world  is  due,  without  doubt,  to  the  financial 
crisis. If not for that, there would now be 413 million 
fewer hungry people in the world. But the eradication 
of hunger and poverty is unthinkable without changing 
the international financial architecture.
The  violence  of  war  feeds  the  darkest  interests, 
such as the geopolitical control of the great Powers and 
corporations that promote conflicts in order to ensure 
their imperial or neocolonial interests. Today, it is the 
economic interests of capital that promote neocolonial 
wars.  With  the  expense  required  for  war  campaigns, 
humankind  could  overcome  many  of  its  problems, 
including  the  Ebola  virus,  tuberculosis,  AIDS  or 
dengue.
We have again witnessed the cruelty and barbarity 
of  the  genocidal  actions  of  the  Government  of  Israel 
against  the  Palestinian  civilian  population.  We  have 
therefore  denounced  Israel  for  violating  international 
humanitarian  law  and  universal  human  rights.  We 
demand  an  investigation  of  the  crimes  committed  by 
Israel  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  The  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia, like other Latin American countries, agrees on 
the profound need to reiterate the legitimacy of United 
Nations resolutions demanding the end of the occupation 
of the Palestinian territories and the construction of an 
independent State within the borders existing prior to 
4  June  1967.  That  is  why  we  again  reiterate  the  need 
to recognize Palestine as a full-fledged Member of the 
United Nations.
As Chair of the Group of 77 and China, I cannot 
fail  to  mention  the  important  commemoration  of  the 
fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the Group of 77, 
2/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
held  on  14  and  15  June  in  the  city  of  Santa  Cruz  de 
la Sierra, Bolivia. The Summit of Heads of State and 
Government  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  adopted  a 
declaration entitled “For a new world order for living 
well” (see A/68/948), which confirms the principles of 
unity, complementarity and solidarity and the building 
of a new world order that establishes a more just and 
democratic system for the benefit of our peoples.
We  commend  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the 
Peoples  of  Our  America-Peoples’  Trade  Agreement 
(ALBA-TCP)  on  completing  10  years  of  tireless  work 
towards  the  integration  of  peoples.  That  work  goes 
beyond commercial profit and focuses on promoting the 
values of cooperation, solidarity and complementarity. 
In its 10 years, ALBA-TCP has become a major player 
in Latin America and the world.
Since  March  2011,  150,000  people  have  died  in 
Syria  and  3  million  people  have  fled  as  refugees  to 
neighbouring countries. Bolivia agrees that the future 
and destiny of Syria must be determined by the Syrian 
people themselves in the full exercise of democracy, in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.
Bolivia  condemns  and  rejects  the  interference  by 
the United States of America in Iraq that triggered the 
current crisis in the country. The war unleashed in 2003 
against Iraq destabilized the entire region. It was said 
that Iraq possessed large quantities of weapons of mass 
destruction. That argument remains one of the biggest 
lies ever told in the history of imperialism. On the basis 
of  that  lie,  peaceful  coexistence  among  social,  ethnic 
and religious groups has been destroyed. The situation 
has  given  rise  to  a  terrorist  group  called  the  Islamic 
State that is imposing a new war that threatens the entire 
region. Bolivia rejects the extreme violence with which 
that terrorist group has acted against civil society and 
wholeheartedly affirms that nothing justifies fratricidal 
violence.
The invasion of Iraq, together with other historical 
events, has taught us a lesson that wherever the United 
States  of  America  intervenes,  it  leaves  destruction, 
hatred, misery and death in its wake, but it also leaves 
wealth in the hands of those who profit from the wars: 
the transnational corporations of the arms industry and 
the  oil  industry.  We  must  make  use  of  the  culture  of 
peace  to  eradicate  extremist  fanaticism,  but  also  the 
imperial warmongering promoted by the United States, 
which, faced with war, threatens more war. The United 
Nations was created to build and promote peace, not to 
justify wars and invasions.
Using  war  against  war  is  not  the  same  as  peace. 
That is a perverse formula — the formula for death and 
endless  confrontation.  We  must  resolve  the  structural 
causes  of  war:  marginalization,  poverty,  lack  of 
opportunities,  cultural  and  political  exclusion,  social 
discrimination,  inequality,  usurpation  and  territorial 
dispossession,  ruthless  capitalism  and  dictatorship  of 
the interests of transnational corporations. Every year 
here  we  hear  Mr.  Obama  deliver  a  discourse  on  war, 
arrogance and threats against the peoples of the world. 
It is also a discourse of extremist fanaticism.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
imposed  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
against  Cuba  is  the  main  tool  of  United  States  policy 
in its eagerness to destroy the revolution and restore its 
hegemony over Cuban territory. The blockade against 
Cuba is the most unjust, severe and prolonged system of 
unilateral sanctions that has ever been applied against 
any country. The blockade qualifies an act of genocide. 
That colonial blockade must be ended immediately.
We want to affirm before this Assembly the historic 
right of the Bolivian people to their access to the sea — a 
right that was trampled by a brutal invasion promoted 
by colonial business interests. The colonial imposition, 
the absence of genuine participatory democracy and the 
interests of foreign companies were interposed between 
the Bolivian and Chilean peoples, fraternal peoples who 
were led to a war favouring the transnationals. Because 
my country firmly believes in and promotes peace and 
harmony in our relations with all of our neighbours, we 
turned  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  search 
of  dialogue  to  resolve,  peacefully  and  in  good  faith, 
a  prolonged  dispute  over  our  sovereign  access  to  the 
Pacific Ocean.
Our demand does not seek to alter the international 
order  of  the  limits  and  boundaries  or  to  threaten 
international treaties, as the the Government of Chile 
would have people believe. On the contrary, Bolivia has 
invoked international law and its principles to resolve, 
methodically and in good faith, the issue of its sovereign 
access to the Pacific Ocean. An effective and peaceful 
solution  regarding  Bolivia’s  sovereign  access  to  the 
sea  would  be  in  the  interests  of  our  peoples,  the  new 
generations, the region and the whole world. I therefore 
call  on  all  countries  of  the  United  Nations  system  at 
this sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly to join 
us,  not  only  Bolivia,  but  our  neighbour  Chile,  in  this 
challenge to peace, justice and rule of law.
We must eradicate violence and war and denounce 
the imperialist warmongering of the world Powers that 
14-54765
3/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
arrogantly believe they embody the ideals of freedom. 
The  imperial  Powers  use  their  communication  media 
to manipulate the wills and the emotions of the people. 
They  lie  and  deceive  with  impunity.  They  divide  and 
pit  nations  and  communities  against  one  another  to 
promote wars, control strategic resources and put them 
at the service of their foreign capitals.
This  is  the  century  of  peace,  but  peace  with 
sovereignty,  with  freedom  for  peoples  and  not  with  a 
free market. This is the century of agreements on liberty, 
life  and  peace  and  not  for  agreements  on  free  trade 
in  life.  There  will  be  no  harmony  if  the  arrogance  of 
empires and their renewed colonialism harass, oppress 
and kill human beings, cultures and the peoples of the 
world.  The  empire  of  finance,  the  empire  of  markets, 
the empire of the arms industry must all fall to give way 
to the wisdom of life and life in peace and harmony.
To  summarize  with  the  greatest  respect  and 
admiration for the Assembly, I would like to say that if 
we want to put an end to poverty, if we want to defend 
life  and  Mother  Earth,  our  only  path  is  to  put  an  end 
to the capitalist system and imperious thinking for the 
well-being of humanity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Constitutional  President  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President 
of the Dominican Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of 
the Dominican Republic, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
Dominican  Republic.  I  wish  to  express  my  sincere 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as 
President  at  the  current  session.  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  honour 
bestowed on our country by inviting us to participate 
in  the  Education  First  initiative.  As  I  hope  that  he 
was able to note in his recent visit to our country, the 
priority that education is being given in the Dominican 
Republic is perhaps the best indicator of the new hopes 
springing up in our country. It is true that news of hope 
is  especially  valuable  these  days  when  it  is  not  very 
abundant.
the 
for 
times  we 
live 
the  mission  of 
in 
Generally  speaking, 
raise  major  challenges 
the 
Organization  —  preserving  peace,  encouraging 
development,  making  education  and  health 
the 
entitlement  of  all  inhabitants  of  the  Earth.  As  we  are 
all  aware,  about  six  years  ago,  a  crisis  that  began  in 
the  financial  sector  of  developed  countries  quickly 
spread  to  all  productive  sectors  and  has  affected  the 
entire planet. The consequences of the economic shock 
continue  to  be  felt  and  were  translated  into  tens  of 
millions of unemployed, millions of evictions and deep 
cuts in social benefits in our countries.
The welfare State, the instrument which produced 
some  of  the  greatest  advances  in  development  and 
security  in  history,  was  jeopardized.  Today,  we  live 
the  paradox  of  seeing  how  that  ideal  of  sustainable 
growth  and  social  justice  becomes  more  fragile  in 
the  countries  of  origin,  while  it  is  being  reborn  in 
emerging  countries.  While  developed  countries  adopt 
policies of austerity and structural adjustments, which 
are  concepts  sadly  familiar  to  Latin  Americans,  we 
see  how  social  programmes  proliferate  in  different 
corners of the planet, lifting millions out of poverty and 
mitigating inequality.
In  the  Dominican  Republic,  we  still  have  a  long 
road  ahead  of  us,  but  we  are  taking  firm  steps  in  the 
fight  against  poverty  and  inequality.  We  are  a  small 
country  but  we  do  not  lack  ambition.  We  have  made 
the  commitment  to  our  people,  our  citizens,  to  put 
them  at  the  centre  of  our  public  policy.  And  we  have 
set  ourselves  the  goal  to  become  a  developed  and 
prosperous country, where equal opportunities will be, 
not an ideal, but an everyday reality.
President  Medina  Sánchez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It 
is  an  honour  to  participate  in  the  sixty-ninth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  by 
representing  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
To  achieve  this,  we  have  established  a  major 
domestic compact, which will be our top priority as a 
nation: namely, education. That is why we have doubled 
the  current  budget  for  public  education  and  allocated 
4/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
to  it  4  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product.  This 
will  enable  us  to  carry  out  the  largest  expansion  of 
school  infrastructure  ever  in  our  history  and  ensure 
that  all  girls  and  boys,  without  exception,  will  have 
access to quality public education. I am also proud to 
tell the Assembly that at the end of this year, thanks to 
the efforts of thousands of volunteers, we will be in a 
position to declare our country free of illiteracy.
In health, that second pillar essential to the welfare 
State,  we  are  also  making  significant  progress.  We 
have eliminated the co-payment for all public hospitals. 
Every  year,  we  add  450,000  participants  to  the 
subsidized health insurance system.
We  are  also  giving  priority  to  supporting  small 
agricultural  producers.  We  have  been  visiting  rural 
communities every week for two years now, listening 
to  people  and  seeking  ways  of  helping  them,  such  as 
by  providing  credits,  training  and  infrastructure.  The 
result of this, which is being monitored by the United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  is  a  rebirth  of  the 
Dominican countryside, including improving its ability 
to feed the country and creating employment in rural 
communities. Thanks to that and other measures, over 
the past 18 months in the Dominican Republic overall 
poverty  has  been  reduced  by  6  per  cent  and  poverty 
in  rural  areas  by  9  per  cent.  In  other  words,  in  18 
months we have lifted more than half a million people 
out  of  poverty.  We  will  continue  to  work  tirelessly, 
implementing  policies  that  put  the  economy  at  the 
service  of  the  people  and  taking  measures  to  combat 
poverty and inequality in a sustainable manner, and we 
will continue to create the basis of what one day will be 
a full welfare State in the Dominican Republic.
the  founding  Charter  of 
It  is  an  honour  for  us  to  be  one  of  the  signatory 
nations  of 
the  United 
Nations,  which,  as  everyone  knows,  assigned  to  the 
Organization its purpose of saving future generations 
from the scourge of war. We should recognize that 2014 
is presenting major challenges to that noble purpose. In 
different latitudes of the world, there have been violent 
conflicts between communities, peoples or States. The 
contexts  of  those  conflicts  are  varied,  but  one  thing 
remains constant — the extent to which past grievances 
shape our identities today, and how dangerous it is to 
allow  oneself  to  be  submerged  by  them.  We  watch  in 
perplexity  and  indignation  the  virulence  with  which 
these violent conflicts are waged in different parts of 
the world.
The  Middle  East  is  once  again  the  scene  of  the 
bloodiest  sectarianism,  which  we  condemn  from  this 
rostrum  in  all  its  manifestations.  In  the  history  of  all 
nations  or  communities,  without  exception,  there  is 
a  long  history  of  disagreements,  misunderstandings 
and quarrels that, at times, can be used to stir up the 
worst passions. They can be manipulated by individuals 
seeking to consolidate power or inflamed by extremist 
groups that feel that they have nothing to lose. There will 
always be someone who keeps old disputes alive. There 
will always be someone who does not mind sacrificing 
the true interests of the people at the time because of 
the wrongs of the past recorded in the history books.
However,  there  are  plenty  of  examples  to  the 
contrary.  Throughout  the  world,  there  are  people  and 
countries that have managed to leave their past behind 
in order to focus on building the future that they want 
for  their  children  and  new  generations.  Whether  it  is 
building bridges between countries once in conflict, as 
the  European  Union  did,  or  among  communities  that 
decided to share the same nation, as in the case of South 
Africa. Hope can and must find its way.
I  would  also  like,  if  I  may,  to  bring  a  note  of 
optimism from our Caribbean region. In the past year, 
we started a dialogue process with neighbouring Haiti 
that can rightly be regarded as historic. Our situation is 
of course unique but not to the degree that it cannot be 
echoed in other parts of the world. As members perhaps 
know, since the birth of our two Republics, there has 
been a long history of misunderstanding and disputes, 
which  led  to  each  of  our  countries  having  a  distorted 
picture of the other.
It  is  true  that  in  our  past  there  were  a  couple  of 
painful  chapters,  which  are  part  of  our  identity. 
However, if we limit our identity to those few chapters, 
it will be impoverished. Our history is very rich. It has 
hundreds of chapters. In many of them, we can find the 
inspiration  to  guide  us  towards  a  better  future  and  a 
more complete, richer and more human identity because 
that is clearly an excellent basis for understanding. In 
both countries, there are millions of people who want 
better  development,  education,  health  care,  security 
and  jobs  and  more  opportunities.  Those  are  concrete 
demands  that  require  specific  measures.  The  truth  is 
that,  by  responding  to  them  and  reaching  agreements 
in each of those areas, in a few months we were able to 
achieve the progress that we had not made   in decades.
Little  by  little,  we  are  moving  forward.  We  are 
discovering that old wounds do not impede advancing 
on  that  path,  but  that  they  heal  as  we  move  forward. 
Our peoples demanded that we exercise the necessary 
14-54765
5/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
courage to take the first step. We will continue to take 
steps until we achieve our goal of two free, sovereign 
and  independent  nations  that,  on  the  basis  of  their 
sovereignty, cooperate for the benefit of their respective 
peoples.
I wish to take this opportunity from this rostrum 
at the General Assembly to make an appeal. As I have 
said,  a  new  era  in  Dominican-Haitian  relations  has 
begun. In that new phase, we would like to enjoy the 
support  of  the  international  community.  One  of  our 
main actions to strengthen Dominican sovereignty and 
to  ensure  the  rights  of  people  living  in  our  territory 
is to provide them all the relevant documentation. As 
members  know,  many  of  those  people  are  Haitian.  In 
order  to  regularize  their  status  in  the  territory  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  they  must  first  have  identity 
papers from their country of origin, which many of them 
unfortunately lack. Haiti is making an effort to reach 
those  Haitians  and  to  provide  them  with  documents 
that  recognize  them  as  its  nationals.  However,  Haiti’s 
technical  and  economic  resources  are  limited.  In  the 
past,  a  number  of  international  organizations  and 
countries  have  expressed  their  concern  about  the 
fate  of  Haitian  migrants.  We  share  that  concern  for 
humanitarian  reasons  and  because  it  affects  us  as  the 
main host country.
I  would  therefore  note  that  now  is  an  excellent 
time to move from words to actions. With specific and 
relatively simple actions, the international community 
can have a major and lasting impact on the lives of those 
people. I appeal for help for Haiti. May the international 
community  help  Haiti  to  document  its  people  in  its 
territory and in ours, since documentation is the first 
essential step for the enjoyment of a wide-ranging body 
of rights. Let us not allow a few technical shortcomings 
to be an obstacle to such a hopeful and necessary process 
with as much potential as that new stage of cooperation 
between the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
There  are  times  when  our  best  aspirations  seem 
fragile. There are times when cynical people point out, 
under  I  do  not  know  what  law  of  the  economy  or  in 
history,  that  we  are  bound  to  repeat  the  mistakes  of 
the  past.  They  say  that  poverty  cannot  be  overcome, 
that  the  gap  of  inequality  will  always  grow  and  that 
past grievances will be reborn in each new generation. 
However, we know that none of that is true. We know 
where to look to find the path of hope. We have only to 
look at those who are closest, that is, our own people, 
their basic daily needs and the hopes that motivate them 
to  continue  the  struggle.  If  we  look  carefully,  we  see 
that the economy is not a prison but can be a tool for 
improving the lives of people. We find that the people 
are free. They are free to know which parts of their past 
they wish to use as a guide to their future and which 
they wish to leave aside.
We  will  find  a  way  to  work  together,  as  we  have 
done with the neighbours with whom we share an island, 
or as we found yesterday, during the climate summit, 
with the other countries with which we share the planet. 
The  citizens  that  we  represent,  increasingly  better 
informed, demand that we live up to our responsibility 
and  our  declared  commitment:  to  preserve  peace,  to 
promote development and to make education and health 
care the right of all inhabitants of the planet.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Dominican Republic 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of 
the Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya.
Uhuru 
President 
Kenyatta, 
Mr. 
and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  President  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic  of  Kenya,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Kenyatta: It is a great pleasure to address 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. As the 
current Chairman of the East African Community, I am 
particularly pleased to see The Honourable Sam Kutesa 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure  you, 
Mr.  President,  of  the  full  support  of  my  Government 
during your presidency.
I would like to begin by lending my voice to all of 
those who have called for urgent and sustained attention 
6/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
to the devastating Ebola crisis in Liberia, Sierra Leone 
and Guinea. Beyond the tragedy of the thousands who 
have  lost  lives  and  loved  ones  and  the  many  more 
living with that threat, livelihoods and businesses have 
collapsed and aspirations for shared prosperity continue 
to shrink day by day. Kenya stands in solidarity with 
the countries affected by this devastating virus.
Earlier 
this  month 
the  Kenyan  people  gave 
$1 million to the effort to bring the crisis under control, 
and  we  stand  ready  to  do  more.  Last  week,  ministers 
of  health  from  the  East  Africa  region  converged  in 
Nairobi  and  agreed  on  measures  to  safeguard  our 
populations and ensure that the virus does not spread 
in  our  region.  The  suspension  of  international  flights 
into  Monrovia  and  other  affected  capitals,  including 
by Kenya Airways, followed a stark warning from the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO).  Those  measures, 
among others, have isolated the affected countries and 
further hurt the people and economies of the region.
With  regard  to  Kenya,  our  intention  was  not  to 
do  harm,  but  the  warning  from  the  WHO  left  us,  as 
a  regional  hub,  with  few  options.  We  stand  ready 
to  resume  Kenya  Airways  flights  once  appropriate 
measures are put in place. Kenya believes that nothing 
in  the  immediate  future  requires  more  attention  and 
determined response from the international community 
than  the  effort  to  stop  and  contain  that  devastating 
virus.  I  therefore  welcome  the  establishment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Ebola Emergency Response, which I am sure will guide 
a collective global response.
The Ebola crisis underlines the imperative to build 
strong States that can withstand crisis and respond to 
emergencies. State weakness in many African countries 
comes  from  a  history  of  development  paradigms  and 
practices  that  weakened  the  State.  We  must  commit 
to  building  strong,  resilient  and  accountable  States 
that can effectively respond to shocks, adversities and 
emergencies in the future.
You, Sir, are presiding over a session of the General 
Assembly  of  historic  significance  to  humankind.  The 
sixty-ninth  session  will  oversee  the  development  and 
adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  This 
effort will build on the work of the Open Working Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  developed 
those goals. Kenya is indeed proud to have been at the 
forefront of driving the Open Working Group process.
The new world development agenda must address 
itself  to  the  entire  cross-section  of  social,  economic 
and  environmental  challenges  that  face  the  world  in 
the twenty-first century. Issues of sustained economic 
development, equality among nations, climate change, 
industrialization,  biodiversity  loss  and  environmental 
protection must now go hand in glove with the traditional 
challenges  of  poverty,  disease,  hunger  and  inequality 
within  nations.  The  new  agenda  must  therefore  be 
universal  and  comprehensive  and  responsive  to  all 
nations  equally  in  order  to  be  transformative  in  its 
impact.
We  in  Kenya  recognize,  however,  that  a  number 
of  obstacles  stand  in  the  way  of  achieving  the  new 
development agenda. The most immediate of these are 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  In  Kenya,  we  stand 
at a critical moment. As we deepen our democracy, we 
find our nation thrust onto the front line of a regional 
and global war against terror. We have become acutely 
aware  that  the  interplay  between  democratization,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  effective  counter-terrorism,  on  the 
other,  presents  severe  challenges  to  our  security  and 
our  governance  institutions.  Increasingly,  terrorist 
actors  are  exploiting  the  expanded  democratic  space, 
sometimes  feeding  into  and  even  influencing  local 
politics.  Unless  we  can  provide  an  effective  buffer  to 
fight back against that tendency, Kenya and indeed other 
countries  will  find  it  difficult  to  entrench  democracy 
and the post-2015 development agenda.
Besides the immediate threat of terrorism, the state 
of economic and social well-being is also affected by 
the  lack  of  sustainable  peace  and  security  in  many 
of  our  countries.  From  the  Central  African  Republic 
to  Mali,  Libya  and  even  as  far  afield  as  the  Middle 
East and Europe, we see new conflicts and crises that 
could  derail  or  delay  development.  In  Kenya,  we  are 
particularly  concerned  by  the  perennial  fragility  that 
has come to characterize the greater Horn of Africa.
In  Somalia,  Kenya  continues  to  sacrifice  lives 
and  resources  in  an  effort  to  bring  peace  to  our 
neighbour.  We  do  this  trusting  that  the  international 
community  will  stay  the  course  in  Somalia.  This 
involves  consolidating  peace  and  investing  in  stable, 
responsive  national  institutions  that  guarantee  public 
safety, promote democracy and civil liberties, as well 
as development and peace in the country and region.
As  we  meet  here,  South  Sudan  also  remains 
in 
turmoil.  Kenya  and  other  countries  of 
the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) 
have invested considerable effort in ending that tragedy 
and sparing the people of South Sudan further suffering. 
14-54765
7/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
Regrettably,  however,  progress  has  been  slow.  We 
cannot  let  that  young  nation  and  its  people  down.  At 
this session of the Assembly, I make a special plea for 
South Sudan, for no nation has, over the years, suffered 
as much neglect from the international community.
Similarly, no country today remains as desperately 
in  need  of  rapid  and  transformative  economic  and 
social  development  as  South  Sudan.  We  cannot  allow 
a return to political chaos, economic collapse or social 
desperation. I implore the leaders of that young nation 
to demonstrate determined and enlightened leadership 
and to make peace without further delay. Such action 
will save the people of the nation enormous suffering 
and offer hope of a better future. I thank the Security 
Council for its continued cooperation with IGAD in the 
search  for  peace  in  South  Sudan.  It  is  this  concert  of 
action that will help to bring about lasting peace, which 
in  turn  will  form  the  basis  for  a  transformative  post-
2015 development agenda for South Sudan and all of its 
neighbours.
On  the  continent  of  Africa  the  development 
model  of  the  past  50  years  has  run  its  course.  That 
outmoded  model  was  defined  by  negative 
trade 
relations,  paternalistic  global  governance  regimes 
and  overreliance  on  official  development  assistance. 
Moreover,  it  was  driven  by  external  prescriptions  for 
development  that  were  heavy  on  political  instruction, 
but light on economic and social transformation.
important, 
We  now  know  better.  We  know  that  our  social 
and  economic  transformation  shall  come  first  from 
within our nations, our region and our continent, and 
only  secondly  from  the  complement  of  external  ideas 
and  resources.  Equally 
those  external 
contributions  must  recognize  the  primacy  of  our 
aspirations and ideas. They must value and safeguard, 
rather than simply exploit and consume, our domestic 
resources  and  the  product  of  our  people’s  labour.  For 
the post-2015 development agenda to be transformative, 
therefore,  it  must  first  embrace  the  primacy  of 
developing  countries  whose  people  seek  sustained 
development  most.  Anything  less  will  be  a  recipe  for 
failure.
We 
speak  of  development  or  of 
transformation  when  millions  of  the  world’s  people 
are  mired  in  and  are  broken  by  unrelenting  poverty, 
disease and hunger. The business of ridding the world 
of those plagues, touched upon but not fully embraced 
by  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  must  be  the 
first  of  the  aspirations  of  the  post-2015  development 
cannot 
agenda.  Equally  important,  it  must  be  fully  financed 
and accelerated, if we are to lay the groundwork for a 
transformative agenda for the next generation. I cannot 
emphasize that point enough. The scourge and shame of 
debilitating poverty, preventable diseases and chronic 
hunger must be erased from our global civilization. In 
reaching the sustainable development goals we have set 
ourselves, within a time frame of 15 years, we must not 
fail.
This  year,  at  the  United  Nations,  Kenya  is  proud 
to have presided over the Conference of States Parties 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  for  Persons  with 
Disabilities.  Kenya  also  presided  over  the  United 
Nations  Forum  on  Forests  and  co-chaired  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
Kenya is currently presiding over the UNICEF Board, 
as  it  seeks  to  provide  global  leadership  for  issues  of 
concern to the world’s children and their well-being.
Kenya  is  a  member  in  good  standing  of  the 
international community and it intends to continue to 
shoulder its global and regional responsibilities. Kenya 
is especially proud of the scores of Kenyans who work 
for the United Nations here in New York, but also further 
afield  in  peacemaking,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding 
and  in  many  United  Nations  organizations  in  various 
United  Nations  stations  around  the  world,  including 
Nairobi. I salute all those Kenyans — every single one 
of them — for their dedication and commitment. We in 
Kenya believe that no nation is too poor or too rich, too 
big or too small to play its rightful role in making the 
world a better place for all.
At 
the  national 
level,  Kenya  grounds  her 
transformative agenda on a strategic vision — our Vision 
2030. Importantly, in 2010 we adopted a new democratic 
Constitution,  which  expanded  and  guaranteed  a 
wider  range  of  rights  for  our  people  and  defined 
new  institutions  for  the  advancement  of  those  rights. 
Drawing  on  that,  we  have  re-engineered  our  system 
of  governance,  making  it  more  democratic,  inclusive, 
devolved  and  responsive.  We  have  also  significantly 
expanded  participation  in  political  and  development 
decision-making.
In four short years, we have begun to witness the 
fruits  of  those  foundational  changes.  Aware  of  the 
imperative to carry along all our people in development, 
my Government launched targeted interventions for the 
most  vulnerable  in  society.  Those  include  a  number 
of  financial 
training  programmes 
for  women  and  youth.  We  have  also  prioritized  the 
initiatives  and 
8/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
advancement  of  children’s  rights  and  welfare  through 
initiatives  that  reduce  mortality  and  morbidity.  Chief 
among them are universal immunization coverage, the 
promotion  of  breast-feeding  for  the  first  six  months 
of  a  child’s  life,  the  provision  of  fortified  foods  and 
insecticide-treated mosquito nets, as well as free care 
for mothers and children in all government hospitals.
In that respect, I wish to commend the first Lady 
of  Kenya,  Ms.  Margaret  Kenyatta,  for  successfully 
launching  the  Beyond  Zero  Campaign  that  is  tapping 
into private sector financing to bolster the management 
of chronic preventable diseases, including HIV/AIDS, 
and  to  improve  maternal  and  child  health  throughout 
the country.
Kenya  is  today  on  track  to  achieve  universal 
primary  education.  Based  on  that,  we  have  expanded 
our vision to include universal secondary education. We 
are seeking to build a more inclusive society, and strive 
to  leave  no  one  behind.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  my 
Government has implemented a social protection cash 
transfer programme to orphans and vulnerable children, 
persons with severe disabilities and our elderly citizens. 
The programme targets 450,000 households throughout 
Kenya. Impact evaluations indicate that the programme 
has reduced poverty, improved family health and raised 
school enrolment.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  Kenya  is  a  leading 
tourist destination. We are also endowed with a number 
of  rare  species,  some  endangered,  which  we  hold  in 
trust  for  humankind.  My  Government  attaches  great 
value to conservation. We continue to raise awareness 
of  the  need  to  step  up  the  fight  against  poaching  and 
illicit  wildlife  trafficking.  We  have  enacted  laws  to 
help fight the scourge, and continue to work with other 
countries and organizations to enhance the protection 
of our fauna and flora. Similarly, Kenya remains at the 
heart  of  international  efforts  to  mitigate  and  adapt  to 
challenges relating to climate change. We continue to 
work towards achieving 10-per cent forest cover; we are 
well above global targets for renewable energy use, and 
fully  support  all  measures  agreed  upon  at  the  recent 
United Nations Environmental Assembly in Nairobi.
Recognizing  that  our  prosperity  is  linked  to  that 
of  our  neighbours,  Kenya  is  engaged  in  a  range  of 
programmes  and  activities  to  hasten  eastern  African 
integration.  We  have  eased  the  movement  of  goods 
and services across our borders. More importantly, our 
people  can  travel,  work  and  settle  across  east  Africa. 
We have also grown our trade volumes and are looking 
to closer integration across a range of other sectors.
are 
committed 
agenda.  We 
Those  are  a  few  highlights  of  my  Government’s 
transformative 
to 
safeguarding and expanding those initiatives by creating 
an  enabling  and  secure  environment.  In  light  of  that, 
my Government continues to invest heavily to combat 
extremists and terrorists. The global effort needs to be 
reinforced because, as we know, the intent of terrorists 
is  to  destroy  free,  secure  and  democratic  nations  and 
people. As long as international terrorism exploits our 
open,  multicultural  and  multi-religious  society  and 
gravely harms our social fabric, our progress towards 
achieving the goals of a transformative agenda will no 
doubt be slowed.
Kenya  believes  in  a  better,  happier  and  more 
prosperous future for all. It is my hope that the confluence 
of forces that have come together to continually make 
our  development  efforts  unnecessarily  difficult  will 
be  persuaded  with  urgency,  to  reassess  their  motives 
and hopefully re-engage within the global community 
and  with  our  country  and  region  in  a  more  positive, 
constructive and humane manner; recognizing that, in 
the end, no one people, nor one country, not even any 
one  continent,  can  inhabit  the  world  peaceably  alone 
in isolation from the rest of the globe. We are in this 
world together to succeed together, to win together and 
to build a better future for all everywhere, together.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President and Commander-in-Chief 
of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Costa Rica.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President 
14-54765
9/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
of  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Solís  Rivera  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  former 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uganda, on his election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  wish 
him the greatest success in carrying out his duties.
Whirlwinds  of  oppression  and  violence,  anxiety, 
desperation and the systematic violation of human rights 
affect many corners of the world. We are witnessing an 
upsurge  in  violence  and  armed  confrontations  and  an 
increase in atrocious crimes and extremism with an ever 
increasing number of displaced persons, humanitarian 
crises and deplorable acts that remain unpunished.
We  are  also  concerned  in  particular  about  the 
universal dimension of the crisis caused by the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS). That reality requires 
the  coordinated  and  forceful  multilateral  action  of 
the  international  community  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  bodies  of  the  Organization.  We  have  seen 
the images and heard the screams of pain and distress 
rising out of Gaza, Iraq, Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan, 
Mali, Libya, the Sudan, South Sudan, Somalia and the 
Central African Republic. The cries can also be heard 
in  Central  America,  where  thousands  of  children  and 
young people cross borders alone heading towards the 
United States of America, fleeing violence and a lack 
of opportunities in pursuit of dreams that can turn into 
nightmares.  The  Assembly  can  never  put  aside  the 
future  of  those  children  because,  in  many  ways,  the 
girls and boys of Central America who travel alone are 
also our sons and daughters.
Costa  Ricans  are  not  indifferent  to  the  terror 
of  armed  conflicts,  less  still  to  the  suffering  of  the 
millions of victims of its most abject manifestations. As 
a nation, we have always stood with our sister nations 
in  our  efforts  to  bring  an  end  to  war  and  to  establish 
peace. The conflicts that torment us often emerge from 
the  fragile  situations  of  States  and  their  institutions: 
extreme  poverty,  corruption  and  impunity.  In  all  of 
them,  serious  human  rights  violations  have  occurred. 
None  of  those  conflicts  broke  out  without  prior 
warning. Ther were clear warning signs. In some cases, 
the threat was identified but no action was taken, as in 
Syria. In other cases, the danger was not acknowledged 
in time, as in South Sudan. However, in all such cases, 
the victims are those who are most vulnerable and most 
need our help but who cannot make their voice heard. 
They are the reason that we are here today.
Faced with the loss of human lives, we have reason 
to  ask  ourselves  if  we  have  kept  the  solemn  promise 
that  accompanied  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations 
69 years ago. Do all Members of the Organization refrain 
from resorting to the threat or use of force against the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of  other 
States? In some cases, that is so, in others not, but the 
failure  to  act  is  unacceptable.  When  States  disregard 
that promise, the system of the United Nations is called 
to  action.  Otherwise,  it  becomes  weak.  It  loses  its 
essence. It loses its spirit.
to 
the  challenge  I  wish 
The  greatest  challenge  facing  the  international 
community,  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security 
Council  — 
talk  about 
today  —  is  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security as essential common goods. If we want peace, 
we  must  prepare  for  peace.  Maintaining  international 
peace and security begins with a culture of peace. As 
an unarmed democracy and home to the University for 
Peace,  the  Inter-American  Institute  of  Human  Rights 
and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, Costa 
Rica believes that the culture of peace and education for 
peace must be an absolute priority. We are convinced 
that peace, like war, is not the product of a human or an 
historic destiny but is borne of the very freedom of the 
human being.
Maintaining international peace and security is not 
restricted to dealing with conflicts. The Organization 
was founded on the ashes of two world wars precisely 
in  order  to  prevent  them.  Prevention  begins  at  the 
State  level,  with  the  strengthening  of  democracy  and 
its  institutions,  good  governance  and  a  social  welfare 
State founded of the rule of law as a basic prerequisite 
for the promotion of development and fair and inclusive 
societies.  Prevention  is  also  founded  on  a  solid  and 
functioning  multilateral  system.  Costa  Rica  values 
and  encourages  the  preventive  diplomatic  measures 
provided for in Chapter VI of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  include  mediation,  good  offices  and 
early warning.
Mr.  Aslov,  (Tajikistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
As  part  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Mediation, 
I  would  like  to  highlight  Costa  Rica’s  leadership  in 
negotiating  General  Assembly 
resolution  68/303, 
which seeks to acknowledge the key role that regional 
and  subregional  organizations  play  in  mediating  and 
managing  conflicts.  To  date,  that  is  the  first  General 
Assembly  resolution  on  mediation  to  recognize  that 
10/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
role. Its inclusion is therefore a true achievement of the 
General Assembly.
I  respectfully  ask  the  Assembly  to  back  Costa  Rica’s 
re-election to the Human Rights Council in October.
Maintaining 
international  peace  and  security 
requires all States to resolve our disputes peacefully in 
line with the Charter of the United Nations and in strict 
accordance with international law and agreements. Costa 
Rica firmly believes in and implements all aspects of 
international law. We therefore underscore in particular 
the  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  Peace  cannot  take  root 
where  there  is  impunity.  When  war  crimes,  genocide 
and  crimes  against  humanity  have  been  committed, 
those responsible must be investigated and put on trial, 
including by the International Criminal Court when the 
national jurisdiction proves insufficient.
Our  country  opposes  the  weakening  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  any  proposed  reform  that  could  promote 
tolerance  for  impunity.  Once  again,  we  remind  the 
Security  Council  of  its  authority  and  responsibility 
to refer to the International Criminal Court cases that 
occur in non-States parties. That is the only approach 
we recognize. Our only weapon is and will always be 
international law.
Maintaining 
international  peace  and  security 
the  single  global 
also  necessitates  strengthening 
Organization  charged  with  defending 
them.  The 
Security  Council  must  progress  from  a  reaction 
mentality towards one of action, and reaffirm its moral 
and political commitment to all humankind. It must be 
vigilant, strategic and proactive. It must be democratic, 
efficient,  transparent  and  inclusive.  My  country  has 
objected  to  the  use  of  the  veto  to  obstruct  measures 
aimed at preventing or resolving conflict. Costa Ricans 
are  amazed  by  the  way  some  permanent  Council 
members have invoked the principal of sovereignty to 
block intervention by the Council at a moment when it 
should  have  acted  to  prevent  rivers  from  turning  red 
with the blood of innocent victims.
We  reiterate  our  call  on  the  permanent  members 
to refrain from using the veto, especially in situations 
of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and 
mass  human  rights  violations.  We  therefore  welcome 
the  French  proposal  for  a  code  of  conduct  addressing 
the use of the veto. In that spirit, Costa Rica supports 
the  Secretary-General’s  Rights  Up  Front  Action 
Plan  so  as  to  place  human  rights  at  the  centre  of  the 
prevention activities of the United Nations. Given our 
serious and unshakeable commitment to human rights, 
Our poet Jorge Debravo said that we Costa Ricans
“have the obligation to fight for a better future for 
man, for a wonderful future. It is not an option for 
us to remain silent. It is not an option for us to be 
observers  or  simple  witnesses  to  the  struggles  of 
our nations. In a time like this, remaining neutral is 
to betray humanity’s future”.
Because silence is not an option for us, we condemn 
the  indiscriminate  rocket  attacks  on  Israel  by  Hamas 
and its use of human shields, just as we condemn the use 
of disproportionate force in military operations carried 
out  by  the  Israel  Defense  Forces.  We  demand  respect 
for  the  ceasefire  and  the  negotiation  of  a  permanent 
solution based on two States living side by side in peace 
and harmony.
Because silence is not an option for us, we reject the 
transfer  of  conventional  weapons  to  existing  conflict 
zones. As one of the world leaders in the negotiations 
that led to the Arms Trade Treaty — an idea originally 
proposed  by  Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureate  and  former-
President  Óscar  Arias  Sánchez  —  we  urge  States  to 
reconsider their laws and policies regulating the transfer 
and  availability  of  arms  and  munitions,  with  a  view 
to preventing access by those who would use them in 
violating human rights and international humanitarian 
law.  To  trade  in  death  is  to  become  an  accomplice  to 
atrocities.  In  that  context,  it  would  be  appropriate  to 
ask the Assembly: What is the ethical — not legal or 
regulatory  —  difference  between  trafficking  arms 
that kill young people in less-developed countries and 
trafficking in drugs that lead to the same result in the 
planet’s richest countries?
Because  silence  is  not  an  option  for  us,  Costa 
Rica  rejects  the  use  of  explosive  weapons  in  densely 
populated  areas  of  Syria,  Gaza  and  eastern  Ukraine. 
Costa Rica urgently calls on Member States to develop 
stricter rules and commitments to prohibit and restrict 
their  use,  not  only  because  they  violate  international 
humanitarian law, but also because taking action on that 
issue, here and now, is critical to reducing incentives to 
non-combatants to take up arms and join the extremists.
Because  silence  is  not  an  option  for  us,  we  also 
condemn the use of cluster munitions in Syria, South 
Sudan  and  eastern  Ukraine.  As  the  host  of  the  Fifth 
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on Cluster 
14-54765
11/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
Munitions,  which  took  place  in  San  Jose  from  2  to 
5  September,  my  country  will  continue  to  reject  the 
manufacture,  use  and  trade  of  those  weapons.  We 
rejoice  that  our  beloved  Central  America  has  become 
the first region of the world to be declared free of cluster 
munitions, and reiterate our commitment to continuing 
to promote the Convention’s universalization.
Because silence is not an option for us, we reiterate 
our  rejection  of  nuclear  weapons.  No  State  should 
develop or possess nuclear weapons. Maintaining and 
updating nuclear weapons requires immense economic 
and human resources that are necessary for responding 
to  the  key  challenges  of  our  time,  such  as  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals and the sustainable 
development goals. Costa Rica is ready to negotiate a 
new, legally binding instrument on nuclear disarmament 
and calls on States to honour their commitments in that 
regard.
There  can  be  no  peace  without  sustainable 
development.  There  can  be  no  peace  in  the  world  so 
long as there is poverty. There can be no peace in the 
presence of extreme wealth disparity. There can be no 
peace  while  we  destroy  humankind’s  habitat.  There 
can  be  no  peace  while  large  sectors  of  humankind 
lack  guaranteed  access  to  drinking  water.  There  can 
be  no  peace  so  long  as  we  fail  to  understand  that  all 
of humankind and Planet Earth’s biodiversity can and 
must  thrive  and  live  together.  There  can  be  no  peace 
while  we  fail  to  guarantee  all  human  rights  —  civil, 
cultural,  economic,  political  and  social  —  and  in 
particular the right to development.
Because  we  yearn  for  peace,  we  call  on  the 
nations  of  the  world  to  join  us  in  defining  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  In  just  one  year’s  time, 
the  General  Assembly  will  be  tasked  with  adopting 
the  international  framework  for  achieving  sustainable 
development.  The  challenge  we  will  face  is  colossal; 
we  must  therefore  humbly  acknowledge  that,  despite 
progress, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals has been, at best, insufficient.
implementation  of 
the 
I am convinced that the new sustainable development 
agenda must be a tool primed for action, with precise 
objectives, clear targets and indicators that will allow us 
to measure and monitor its success. In addition, it must 
result from a broad international consensus, including 
open and transparent negotiation processes that involve 
not only the Member States, but also other international 
actors and civil society organizations whose experience 
will significantly enrich the final agreement.
We  are  facing  the  most  serious  threat  in  our 
history  —  the  very  survival  of  our  species.  Actions 
taken to confront it must not be timid. On the contrary, 
every  public  policy,  national  and  international  alike, 
must take climate change into account as a determining 
factor. Costa Rica celebrates the vision of the Secretary-
General  in  convening  the  Climate  Summit  at  the 
opening of this session. Now is the time to demonstrate 
our political commitment to achieving a legally binding 
instrument on climate change by 2015. In addition, we 
demand robust action on the part of those countries that 
contribute  most  to  global  warming.  Their  production 
and consumption methods must be completely revised 
as  their  impact  on  the  planet’s  most  impoverished 
people — the ones most affected by climate change — is 
undeniable. If humankind is to survive, we must reverse 
the current trend.
Three  years  ago,  33  countries  came  together  to 
establish  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States (CELAC). Its agenda is underpinned 
by  full  respect  for  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law. 
Its  objective  is  to  build  diverse,  equitable,  fair  and 
egalitarian  societies,  where  eradicating  poverty  and 
hunger  are  given  priority  status.  I  salute  the  nations, 
members of this community.
In  an  international  context  of  increasing  military 
tension  and  armed  conflict,  and  with  the  realization 
that  a  region’s  prosperity  and  stability  can  contribute 
to  international  peace  and  security,  CELAC  member 
States have declared Latin America and the Caribbean 
a zone of peace. As President Pro Tempore of CELAC, 
Costa  Rica  reiterates  its  commitment  to  preventive 
diplomacy  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes, 
with the aim of forever eradicating both the use and the 
threat of force from our region.
Costa  Rica  trusts  that  the  United  Nations  will 
maintain  international  peace  and  security  in  order  to 
promote  sustainable  development  and  ensure  genuine 
respect for all human rights. At a time when we must 
control  the  reflexive  use  of  coercive  measures  as  a 
first  course  of  action,  when  anxiety  and  despair  are 
unsettling  many,  it  is  essential  to  re-establish  hope. 
When faced with fear, we must have confidence. When 
faced with conflict, we must turn to peace. When faced 
with rejection and prejudice on the part of others, we 
must offer a caring and fraternal embrace. When faced 
with death, we must think of life.
With  faith  in  dialogue  and  consultation,  I  have 
come to the General Assembly to ask that we declare 
12/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
peace  —  that  we  conscientiously  and  decisively  work 
together  towards  a  culture  and  education  for  peace; 
towards  strengthening  of  the  social  State  based  on 
the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as  its  institutions  and  our 
economies; towards conflict prevention and resolution 
of  international  controversies  by  peaceful  means; 
towards  a  renewed  role  for  the  Security  Council; 
towards an end to and a reversal of climate change; and 
towards  sustainable  development  from  which  not  one 
person in the world is excluded.
I  have  come  to  tell  the  Assembly  that  silence  is 
not  an  option  for  us.  We  must  raise  our  voices  when 
confronted with actions and situations that go against 
the  universal  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations. I have come to inspire us to work 
together on new paradigms for sustainable development, 
human security and peace for the whole world.
The  Costa  Rican  poet  Julieta  Dobles  Yzaguirre 
wondered:  “Will  the  Earth  in  the  new  millennium/ 
become that common home?” I would like to respond to 
the poet with her own words: “No one is saved alone./ 
Perhaps in sharing words and actions/ peace will finally 
break out.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Costa Rica for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President 
of Mongolia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Mongolia.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia, 
President of Mongolia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Tsakhia:  At  the  outset,  Sir,  may  I  join 
others  in  extending  our  heartfelt  congratulations  to 
Mr. Sam Kutesa on his unanimous election as President 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. Mr. Kutesa 
can  count  on  my  delegation’s  full  support  in  the 
discharge  of  his  enormous  responsibilities  in  steering 
our work in the months ahead.
The world is faced with multiple crises — violent 
conflicts in various parts of the world, terrorist activities 
by  extremist  groups,  unprecedented  epidemics  and 
natural  calamities.  At  this  time  of  turmoil,  we,  as 
a  family  of  nations,  must  rally  around  this  world 
Organization as a centre of multilateralism, upholding 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  universal 
principles of international law.
We  need  peace  and  development.  We  need  to  do 
our utmost to implement the right of peoples to peace 
as  emphasized  by  the  Declaration  on  the  Right  of 
Peoples to Peace, adopted 30 years ago at the initiative 
of  Mongolia.  We  have  consistently  supported  the 
joint  efforts  of  the  international  community  against 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Mongolia 
is  a  party  to  the  majority  of  international  counter-
terrorism  instruments.  The  seemingly  unthinkable 
atrocities  committed  by  the  terrorist  group  called  the 
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant  pose  alarming 
threats to regional peace and security. The international 
community  must  take  resolute  action  to  defeat  these 
threats  comprehensively  and  in  compliance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
in 
rallying 
Mongolia  commends 
the  Secretary-General’s 
leadership 
international  support  and 
establishing  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola 
Emergency  Response  to  ensure  a  rapid,  effective  and 
coherent response to the Ebola crisis. We support the 
Security Council and General Assembly resolutions to 
that effect.
The  situation  in  Ukraine  should  be  resolved  only 
through political dialogue, without the use of force. The 
current ceasefire needs to be made more sustainable; all 
efforts towards finding a solution, including the Putin 
plan outlined in Ulaanbaatar earlier this month, as well 
as the Minsk protocol of 5 September and its follow-up 
memorandum, should be taken into account.
Mr.  Sirodjidin  Aslov  (Tajikistan),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Just 25 years ago, Mongolia chose its development 
path, deciding to embrace the rule of law, democratic 
governance,  a  market  economy  and  an  open  society. 
Although  we  are  among  the  countries  known  as 
the  third  wave  of  democratization,  the  transition  to 
democracy was in many respects unique in Mongolia. 
14-54765
13/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
We made a simultaneous transition to democracy and a 
market economy. We made that transition peacefully. In 
1990, democratic parliamentary elections were not only 
the first of their kind in the region, but they were fully 
free and fair. To ensure inclusive growth and citizens’ 
participation,  a  national  policy  on  decentralization 
through  direct  democracy  was  introduced.  As  a 
result,  citizens  are  now  able  to  directly  participate  in 
identifying development priorities and allocations and 
monitoring local budgets.
To  identify  a  long-term  development  pathway 
and  regain  the  confidence  of  investors,  a  number 
of  multi-stakeholder  events  have  been  held 
in 
Mongolia  —  the  Economic  Forum,  the  Business 
Summit  and  Discover  Mongolia.  In  addition,  new 
laws,  particularly  on  investment,  investment  funding 
and  petroleum,  and  budget  transparency,  have  been 
adopted.
At  the  international  level,  Mongolia  served  as 
the  Chair  of  the  Fifth  International  Conference  of 
New or Restored Democracies and the Community of 
Democracies. We currently chair the Freedom Online 
Coalition.  It  is  the  first  time  that  an  Asian  country 
leads  the  Coalition.  We  support  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  decision  that  Internet  freedom  is  a  basic 
human  right.  As  a  staunch  advocate  of  democracy 
and  freedom,  Mongolia  will  use  its  opportunity  as 
chair of the Coalition to promote, both nationally and 
internationally,  an  Internet  that  is  free  and  secure  for 
all.
To support emerging democracies, Mongolia has set 
up an international cooperation fund. We have nothing 
to preach, but we have experience and lessons learned. 
We therefore shared with Kyrgyzstan our experience in 
parliamentary democracy and legal reform, and we held 
training  sessions  for  Afghan  diplomats  and  Myanmar 
journalists.
Mongolia highly commends the Secretary-General’s 
leadership in galvanizing and catalysing global action 
on  climate  change.  Climate  change  is  not  a  challenge 
for  the  future;  it  is  a  matter  of  urgent  Permanent 
Representativeiority today. Yesterday’s United Nations 
Climate Change Summit 2014 offered world leaders a 
unique opportunity to voice their commitments to cut 
the emission gap and to pledge their commitment to the 
two-degree scenario in the lead-up to the twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate, to be held 
in Paris next year.
But  that  pledge  will  remain  a  mere  ambition  if  it 
is  not  backed  up  by  bold  action  and  strong  political 
will.  We  are  running  out  of  time,  but  we  cannot  run 
out of planet Earth. The time to act is now. Moreover, 
the  Green  Climate  Fund  needs  to  be  made  fully 
operational.  If  resources  are  actually  transferred  as 
an incentive to countries that reduce their emission of 
greenhouse gases, that will have a multiplier effect. No 
one country is immune to climate change. Even my own 
country, Mongolia, which has a centuries-old tradition 
of  living  in  harmony  with  nature,  is  experiencing  its 
disproportionate  effect.  Conscious  of  that  reality, 
Mongolia  has  recently  adopted  a  green  development 
policy. We expressed our support for the statement on 
carbon  pricing,  and  for  the  New  York  Declaration  on 
Forests to combat deforestation.
the 
legacy  of 
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  has  the 
important task of articulating the post-2015 development 
agenda  based  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In  that  regard,  we  look 
forward to a synthesis report by the Secretary-General 
Permanent Representativeior to the intergovernmental 
negotiations  for  the  sustainable  development  goals 
(SDGs)  during  this  General  Assembly  session.  We 
also  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  Open  Working 
Group on SDGs and commend its hard work over the 
past  18  months.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  underscored 
the  special 
challenges  facing 
the  most  vulnerable  countries, 
including  landlocked  developing  countries  (LLDCs). 
However, we believe that the outcome document of the 
Open  Working  Group  could  have  better  reflected  the 
special  needs  of  landlocked  developing  countries.  We 
hope that the upcoming intergovernmental negotiations 
will redress that situation.
level 
joined 
for  LLDCs.”  We  also 
In the run-up to the 10-year review of the Almaty 
Programme  of  Action,  in  June  2014  we  hosted  a 
high- 
international  workshop,  “The  World 
Trade  Organization  Agreement  on  Trade  Facilitation: 
Implications 
the 
Intergovernmental Agreement on Dry Ports in order to 
become involved in regional connectivity. Facilitation 
of  transit  transportation,  infrastructure  development 
and reduction of trade barriers were among the issues 
discussed  during  the  recent  visits  to  Mongolia  by 
President Xi Jinping and President Vladimir Putin. We 
agreed to expand our cooperation in those areas. Those 
agreements  were  reiterated  at  the  first  ever  trilateral 
summit  that  brought  together  Mongolia,  China  and 
Russia  on  the  sidelines  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
14/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
Summit in Dushanbe earlier this month. The expansion 
of  our  cooperation  with  those  two  neighbours  augurs 
well  for  regional  trade  and  investment  and  paves  the 
way  for  enhanced  economic  collaboration  with  our 
other neighbours.
Mongolia is redoubling its efforts to join the Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation,  to  become  a  dialogue 
partner of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
and to constructively engage in the East Asia Summit. 
Last  July  we  also  signed  an  economic  partnership 
agreement  with  Japan.  Strengthening  peace  and 
stability  in  North-East  Asia  is  one  of  our  national 
security  Permanent  Representativeiorities.  We  firmly 
believe  that  dialogue  and  open  discussions  enhance 
confidence  among  nations.  Following  up  on  the 
Ulaanbaatar Dialogue on Northeast Asian Security, we 
have successfully hosted a series of fruitful platforms, 
including  a  meeting  of  women  parliamentarians,  an 
international  research  conference  and  a  meeting  of 
mayors from cities in North-East Asian countries.
Stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  crucial  for 
maintaining  regional  peace  and  security.  We  support 
an early resumption of the Six-Party talks. As a country 
with  a  declared  nuclear-weapon-free  status,  Mongolia 
firmly  believes  that  the  Korean  Peninsula  must  be 
nuclear-weapon-free.
In a time of major geopolitical change, the United 
Nations system must reflect new economic and political 
realities.  We  need  to  accelerate  the  reform  process, 
including  the  long-overdue  expansion  of  Security 
Council  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent  categories.  The  issue  of  the  Council’s 
working method is also important for all small States, 
which make up a majority in the United Nations.
Out  of  193  States  Members,  105  belong  to  the 
Forum of Small States. Of the 70 States that have never 
been  elected  as  members  of  the  Security  Council, 
50  are  small  States,  including  my  own  country, 
Mongolia. As a responsible member of the international 
community, Mongolia has put forward its candidacy for 
a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  in  the 
elections to be held in 2022, and is seeking the valuable 
support of its fellow members.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  express  my 
confidence  that  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
will be able to deliver a common development strategy 
beyond 2015, a strategy that will inspire and guide us 
to work collectively towards a safer, more equitable and 
prosperous future in the years to come.
like 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Mongolia for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Jonathan:  Let  me  begin,  Sir,  by 
expressing the best wishes of the Government and the 
people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Mr. Kutesa’s 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  His  election  is  a  fitting 
tribute  to  his  invaluable  and  inspiring  contribution  to 
international  diplomacy.  I  would  also  like  to  express 
my warm appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador 
John Ashe, for the astute and steadfast manner in which 
he steered the affairs of the sixty-eighth session of the 
Assembly. I thank Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon not 
only for his relentless commitment to the work of the 
United  Nations,  but  especially  for  his  tireless  efforts 
to address the challenges of world peace and security.
We are meeting at a time when the world looks with 
expectation towards 2015, which marks the end of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the launch 
of their successors, the sustainable development goals 
(SDGs).  We  must  ensure,  at  all  levels,  that  the  SDGs 
reflect the goals and aspirations of all the regions of the 
world. Indeed, if the SDGs are to drive development and 
also  meet  the  aspirations  of  developing  countries  for 
poverty elimination and sustainable growth, collective 
ownership  of  the  emerging  process  must  be  our 
priority. We in Africa expect that the new SDGs will be 
people-centred. They must promote peace and security, 
structural economic transformation, inclusive growth, 
food security for all, environmental sustainability and 
the shared benefits of science and technology. Indeed, 
14-54765
15/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
the gains of the MDGs must be incorporated into the 
emerging mechanism.
resource  mobilization, 
We  applaud  the  wide-ranging  recommendations 
of  the  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing 
on  domestic 
international 
development  assistance,  private  sector  finance  and  a 
supportive global enabling environment. My country is 
honoured  to  have  been  accorded  the  privilege,  jointly 
with Finland, of leading that work as co-Chair of the 
Intergovernmental Committee of Experts, as mandated 
by  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Rio. Along with the work of the Open Working Group 
on sustainable development goals, the report provides 
a solid basis for intergovernmental negotiations on the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  Nigeria  is  aware  of 
the  need  to  create  an  enabling  environment  for  rapid 
development.  We  are  committed  to  strengthening 
institutions  and  improving  governance  systems,  in 
order  to  ensure  an  efficient  use  of  resources  and  the 
process itself.
The President returned to the Chair.
The year 2015 also marks the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  Even 
though  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  underlines 
the  imperative  to  spare  succeeding  generations  from 
the scourge of war, the world continues to witness the 
ravages of war and human suffering. Today’s terrorism, 
manifested  sometimes  in  insurgency,  is  vicious  and 
aimless.  Its  consequences  are  agonizing,  marked 
by  a  tendency  to  annihilate  victims  and  completely 
destroy infrastructure and properties. The involvement 
of  foreign  fighters  remains  a  common  feature  of 
terrorist  groups,  whether  Al-Qaida  in  the  Maghreb, 
Al-Shabaab in Somalia, Boko Haram in Nigeria or the 
newly emerging Islamic State (IS). The new dimension 
introduced  by  IS  —  namely,  the  goal  of  conquering 
territory and establishing its destructive ideology — is 
a major challenge that must be collectively halted before 
it becomes the norm. That challenge focuses renewed 
attention  on  the  need  to  review  the  existing  tools  for 
United Nations peacekeeping operations.
The  violent  and  criminal  activities  of  Boko 
Haram  have  continued  to  pose  a  potent  challenge  to 
the  Government  and  people  of  Nigeria.  Through  a 
wave  of  terror,  assassinations,  bombings  and  now 
abductions  and  kidnappings,  predominantly  in  the 
north-east  of  the  country,  Boko  Haram  is  attempting 
to truncate development in those areas through murder 
and  mayhem.  In  April,  our  innocent  daughters  were 
abducted  from  a  secondary  school  in  Chibok,  in  the 
north-east. That callous and criminal act has attracted 
empathy for Nigeria across the globe.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
the  countries  and  organizations  that  have  expressed 
solidarity  with  us  and  have  continued  to  support  our 
determined  efforts  to  free  our  daughters.  Although  it 
has been over three months since they were abducted, 
we have never relented in our efforts to see them safely 
free.  Together  with  our  partners,  we  are  working 
assiduously  to  free  our  daughters  and  reunite  them 
with  their  families.  To  that  end,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Government of France for organizing and hosting the 
special summit on security in Nigeria that was held in 
Paris  in  May.  I  also  wish  to  express  my  appreciation 
to the Governments of Cameroon, Chad, the Niger and 
Guinea  for  their  committed  efforts  in  support  of  the 
fight against Boko Haram. The outcome of the French 
process and the follow-up in London, Washington, D.C., 
and Abuja have helped to galvanize regional action and 
are already yielding positive results. Let me underline 
today that we shall not waver until we end this mindless 
war  on  the  innocent  and  bring  all  the  perpetrators  to 
justice. We will triumph over terrorism.
transparency, 
The  failure  of  the  Security  Council  to  agree  on 
unanimous  action  over  pressing  challenges  to  global 
peace and security in Syria and Iraq and the conflict in 
Ukraine, as well as with regard to the renewed aggression 
between Israel and Palestine, has strengthened the case 
for  Security  Council  reform.  Today’s  challenges  can 
be resolved only by a Security Council whose working 
methods  engender 
inclusivity  and 
common  ownership  through  equitable  representation 
of  all  regions  in  the  decision-making  process.  It  is 
imperative that we take advantage of 2015, which also 
marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  1965  reform,  to 
make  concrete  progress  on  reforming  the  Security 
Council. We believe that there needs to be a fast-track 
process  in  line  with  the  initiative  of  Mr.  John  Ashe, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session,  for  establishing  a  working  group  on  reform. 
Indeed,  the  Security  Council  requires  the  collective 
resolve of all Member States to ensure that 2015 brings 
decisive progress.
Even  as  Africa,  and  in  particular  West  Africa, 
terrorism,  with  progressive 
battles  conflicts  and 
16/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
results, the region is being devastated by the outbreak 
of  the  deadly  Ebola  virus.  While  Nigeria  was  able  to 
respond effectively to control the spread of the disease, 
the  situation  in  Liberia  and  Sierra  Leone  requires 
sustainable  collective  global  action  if  it  is  to  be 
contained. Through the concerted efforts of our health-
care professionals, the World Health Organization and 
our international partners, we have been able to contain 
the virus, and we can confidently say that Nigeria today 
is Ebola-free.
However,  we  have  continued  to  support  efforts 
to  contain  the  spread  of  the  disease  in  Sierra  Leone, 
Liberia  and  Guinea.  In  addition  to  a  direct  donation 
totalling  $3.5  million,  we  have  provided  training  and 
capacity-building  support  to  the  three  countries.  It 
is  pertinent  to  stress  the  need  for  the  international 
community  to  properly  appreciate  the  magnitude  of 
the  Ebola  challenge.  Indulging  in  isolationist  and 
discriminatory tendencies, as some countries are doing, 
will only worsen an already critical situation. To prevent 
the  disease  from  becoming  a  global  catastrophe,  the 
United  Nations  must  accord  it  the  maximum  priority 
it deserves.
Certainly,  there  has  been  much  discussion  on 
limiting ozone layer depletion since the commencement 
of  negotiations  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in 1994. However, the 
extent of progress in key areas, particularly in limiting 
the contribution of man-made activities to greenhouse 
gas emission, has yet to be determined.
Nigeria  appreciates  the  indispensable  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  its  search  for  solutions  to  all  those 
challenges: 
terrorism,  global  peace  and  security, 
the  environment,  and  forging  sustainable  economic 
development. We have been and will remain a reliable 
and active partner, especially as we collectively work 
to resolve the new and emerging threats to global peace 
and security. The world must come together and win the 
war against terror.
On 29 May 1999, Nigeria ended its military rule after 
the inauguration of a democratically elected President. 
Come February 2015, the country will conduct its fifth 
post-military-rule  general  election.  In  keeping  with 
my election as President by the people of Nigeria, we 
shall conduct elections based on global best practices to 
further strengthen our democratic institutions.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of 
the Republic of Rwanda, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Kagame: I want to start by congratulating 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly.
We  are  living  through  a  period  of  unprecedented 
progress  in  human  development.  The  success  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
framework 
demonstrates  that  international  cooperation  remains 
strong,  though  we  wish  the  expected  results  would 
come faster. Even on climate change, if the public and 
private  sectors  work  together  to  increase  investment 
in scientific research, we can look forward to a future 
where  countries  no  longer  have  to  choose  between 
green energy and economic growth.
While  we  work  on  building  peace  and  well-being 
in Africa, crises elsewhere in the world have aroused 
grave  concern.  Efforts  to  address  them  seem  to  have 
little  effect,  and  in  some  cases  they  may  even  make 
things worse.
Two  critically  important  public  goods  have  been 
consistently undervalued by the international system in 
its  approach  to  conflict  resolution  and  peacebuilding. 
They are physical security and national identity. When 
security breaks down, the human costs are enormous. 
Extremists  and  opportunists  are  empowered.  Citizens 
lose  faith  in  public  institutions,  as  grievances  are 
settled  in  the  street.  As  a  result,  sustainable  gains  in 
good  governance  cannot  be  made.  It  takes  time  and 
patience  to  build  a  better  political  system.  There  are 
no shortcuts. We are dealing with real people who want 
change,  but  with  continuity  and  safety.  They  must  be 
fully  included  in  the  process  of  consensus-building. 
14-54765
17/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
That  is  because  structures  of  governance  that  are  not 
developed  from  within  will  not  take  root.  We  should 
encourage  full  ownership  and  partnership,  and  the 
approach  of  international  institutions  and  Member 
States  should  take  those  realities  into  account.  In 
countries that have known only peace, such arguments 
may sound self-serving. But they are not, because lives 
are at stake.
The second neglected element is national identity. 
That is just as important. To manage the diversity in our 
societies, politics must be national in scope. Whatever 
differences  we  may  have,  our  common  citizenship 
is  a  bond  that  unites  us.  The  negative  experiences 
of  nationalism  have  created  doubt  about  affirming 
patriotism and national identity. However, what we see 
around the world today is that national identities are too 
weak, not that they are too strong. As a result, ethnicity, 
region  and  religion  become  the  dominant  currency 
of  politics,  and  nations  are  torn  apart.  International 
systems should encourage efforts by Governments and 
civil society to strengthen national unity.
In  Rwanda,  we  have 
focused  on  building 
accountable governance institutions and renewing our 
dignity  as  a  nation.  As  a  result,  Rwandans  today  are 
among  the  most  optimistic  and  civic-minded  people 
in  the  world.  For  us,  stability  is  not  an  abstraction,  it 
is a reality that abides in the minds and hearts of the 
people and the institutions they build to sustain it. Once 
achieved, the horizon expands from poverty reduction 
to  wealth  creation  and  the  attainment  of  ever  higher 
measures of human development.
Therefore, our task in the international community 
is not to manage conflicts, but to help prevent and end 
those conflicts. If we focus on keeping people safe and 
bringing them together to solve their problems, we will 
be able to do so.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Rwanda 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, 
President of the Republic of Honduras
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Honduras.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Orlando  Hernández  Alvarado, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Hernández  Alvarado 
in 
Spanish): I am Juan Orlando Hernández. I was born in 
a humble village called Rio Grande, in the department 
of Lempira, a region with very high rates of inequality 
and  poverty,  although  that  is  now  changing,  as  is  my 
whole country. I am here in my capacity as President 
of  Honduras,  a  country  located  in  the  heart  of  the 
Americas. It is a country small in size, but with a great 
desire to achieve development based on its own identity, 
and  with  a  people  who  struggle  daily  to  advance  and 
progress, and who aspire to better living conditions.
In  2009,  our  country  suffered  one  of  the  worst 
political crises in its history. It led to several hundred 
million  dollars  in  losses,  and  most  unfortunately,  to 
thousands of divided families and more poverty. That 
crisis  caused  more  damage  than  any  hurricane  or 
natural  disaster.  However,  today  we  can  say  that  we 
have overcome the political crisis.
Honduras  is  a  country  where  full  democracy  is 
practised and there is complete freedom to choose its 
leaders.  In  addition  to  representative  democracy,  we 
practice  participatory  democracy.  Proof  of  that  is  the 
dialogue that will lead to a compact for Honduras that 
will be the result of listening to the views of different 
sectors of society on central issues for our people. Our 
Everyone  for  a  Better  Life  Plan  includes  four  basic 
pillars:  restoring  peace,  generating  investment  and 
large-scale  employment  opportunities,  supporting 
families  living  in  extreme  poverty,  and  combatting 
corruption  and  promoting  greater  transparency  in  the 
culture of the Honduran people.
Since taking office eight months ago, I have been 
completely  devoted  to  recovering  and  maintaining 
peace and tranquillity, creating opportunities with fairer 
conditions for everybody. We need more investment to 
come  to  our  country  in  order  to  create  jobs  that  will 
translate into greater income for our families. To that 
end, Honduras has amended its Constitution to create 
one of the best platforms in the world for investment and 
employment. It is a very innovative. I am referring to 
18/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
the Zone for Employment and Economic Development, 
which is better known by its acronym ZEDE.
The Honduras ZEDE model is not just another free 
trade zone, similar to the 3,500 that already exist in the 
world. Ours is different because it is comprehensive. It 
is a jurisdiction with four dimensions: legal, economic, 
administrative  and  political.  The  Honduran  ZEDE 
is  a  L.E.A.P.  zone,  which  in  English  means  “to  jump 
forward”.  In  Honduras,  the  ZEDE  will  help  us  take  a 
competitive  leap  forward  towards  greater  well-being. 
Rather  than  joining  the  race  to  the  bottom,  Honduras 
has  decided  to  compete  upwards,  welcoming  global 
investment through a special jurisdiction of the highest 
level  to  employ  the  most  productive  and  profitable 
workforce in a highly favourable location at the centre 
of the Americas, bringing the Pacific and the Atlantic 
together.
In the legal dimension, ZEDE offers a common law 
system, with compulsory arbitration and international 
judges. Economically speaking, we are competitive in 
an open market, with a series of agile simple regulations, 
with highly attractive and sustainable incentives for the 
creation  of  good  jobs  under  decent  conditions.  In  the 
administrative dimension, ZEDE provides a technical, 
non-political  structure  without  bureaucratic  obstacles 
that is effective for companies that must operate at the 
speed  of  the  markets  and  technology  in  the  twenty-
first century, and with full guarantees of transparency 
and security within the rule of law. Finally, to attract 
long-term 
jobs,  we 
guarantee  political  stability  and  transparency  based 
on  international  treaties  and  agreements,  with  the 
support of an international commission of 21 trustees to 
ensure compliance with best practices for workers and 
the  investors.  I  invite  everyone  to  discover  the  great 
opportunity Honduras offers the world.
investment  and  ensure  good 
We  have  also  created  a  participatory  model 
of  Government  enterprises  and  the  private  sector, 
with  mixed  capital  —  in  other  words  public-private 
partnerships. We are building an interoceanic logistical 
corridor  linking  the  Atlantic  with  the  Pacific  Ocean, 
allowing us to move cargo between both Oceans in less 
than six hours — I repeat, less than six hours. Our hope 
is to capture at least 5 per cent of the demand to move 
goods from one ocean to another.
We have made progress, but we also recognize that 
much remains to be done. For example, there has been a 
rise in the number of Hondurans going abroad, including 
an unusual migration of children and vulnerable youth 
to  North  America,  many  unaccompanied  by  an  adult. 
This migration is the result of the violence created by 
the movement of drugs through our territory, poverty 
and the lack of opportunities. Special attention must be 
dedicated to this phenomenon, especially in countries 
that  are  responsible  for  the  problem  either  because 
they produce the drugs or because they are the market 
where the drug is consumed. We believe that this is a 
shared  responsibility.  Faced  with  the  scant  interest  in 
solving the problem shown but those who created it, we 
Hondurans  must  stress  this  issue  in  every  forum  that 
we  possibly  can,  because  we  must  speak  clearly  and 
forcefully about that issue.
Honduran  territory  is  today  one  of  the  main 
battlefields of a war that is not our own. We did not start 
this  war.  Its  strategies  are  decided  outside  Honduras, 
and it involves drug-consuming countries in the North 
and drug producing countries in the South. It is a real 
monster —  a  multinational,  criminal  octopus  without 
nationalities,  borders  or  scruples,  which  is  dedicated 
to the trafficking, trade and consumption of drugs and 
to  encouraging  demand,  especially  in  the  wealthiest 
societies.
transiting 
The  drugs 
through  Honduras  and 
Central  America  destroy  the  lives  and  peace  of  our 
people, our youth, our children and our women. From 
those  who  orchestrate  and  organize  the  transnational 
activity within our territory to ordinary citizens and the 
children involved as pawns in drug dealing and addicts, 
all are affected. They are all embarking on the path of 
no  return,  which  will  tear  apart  our  society,  destroy 
families,  corrupt  officials  and  destroy  institutions.  I 
invite  members  to  ask  themselves:  Who  are  the  real 
culprits  in  this  cycle  of  death,  misfortune,  mourning, 
struggle,  blood  and  pain?  It  is  not  Hondurans,  I  can 
assure the Assembly of that.
In  forums  such  as  this,  we  need  to  agree  on  the 
basic  contours  of  the  issue  and  the  facts.  We  cannot, 
in the midst of crisis and without coming to useful or 
concrete  conclusions,  put  forward  proposals  based  on 
legalizing  production  and  consumption,  on  the  one 
hand, and on waging a merciless war on trafficking and 
illegal  drug  use,  on  all  fronts  and  regardless  of  cost, 
on the other. I ask myself, and I invite members to ask 
themselves: Who are the true victims of this tragedy? 
All those who cannot live in peace in modern society 
are  victims,  as  are  those  who  cannot  live  in  society 
without using drugs. Society itself is a victim, as it is 
unable to organize its efforts and manage its resources 
in a rational manner so as to create new opportunities.
14-54765
19/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
Honduras  produces  and  consumes  practically  no 
drugs.  We  are  a  transit  country.  Unfortunately,  we 
provide only the battlefield and the dead. We provide 
the  resources  to  combat  drugs’  transit  through  our 
territory, and those are resources that we are prevented 
from  investing  in  meeting  our  development  problems 
and challenges. I repeat: we are not responsible for the 
war.
I think it is time to do what we have to do: respect 
human  rights;  follow  what  experts  and  our  common 
sense  are  telling  us;  attack  the  problem  at  its  root, 
once and for all; and do it together and throughout the 
affected  region.  We  must  create  a  multinational  force 
capable  of  dealing  successfully  with  a  phenomenon 
that  is  transnational  in  terms  of  its  organization,  its 
market, its projections and its financing. This morning, 
President Obama called for such unity in fighting radical 
fundamentalists.  I  would  ask:  What  is  the  difference 
between  the  effects  of  terrorist  acts  perpetrated  by 
radical fundamentalists and the effects of the terrorist 
acts perpetrated by those who traffic in drugs? What is 
the difference?
Today  the  international  community  is  discussing 
what  happens  in  other  regions  of  the  world  when 
children,  young  people  and  families  are  displaced  by 
war,  violence  and  radical  extremists.  Those  are  all 
situations that we as a nation also condemn. Of course 
we  do.  However,  little  is  being  said  and  about  the 
thousands  of  families  living  in  the  northern  triangle 
of Central America. I do not want to believe that this 
issue  will  simply  be  forgotten.  As  human  beings,  we 
cannot  allow  that  to  happen.  I  would  once  again  ask 
the  Assembly:  What  is  the  difference  between  those 
displaced  by  violence  in  other  regions  and  those 
displaced by the violence committed by drug traffickers 
and transnational criminals? What is the difference?
One  difference  is  that  those  displaced  —  those 
thousands of families and individual children — come 
knocking on the doors of the United States of America. 
As a region, we cannot continue to ignore this human 
drama, which affects thousands of Central Americans, 
especially  unaccompanied  migrant  minors  who,  on 
their way to the United States, have been the victims of 
violence, transnational crime, rape, human trafficking 
and  the  organ  trade.  Many  have  died  or  disappeared 
in  the  desert.  We  cannot  forget  that.  Those  children 
deserve  to  be  treated  with  dignity  and  respect.  They 
are  innocent  victims.  We  are  talking  about  innocent 
children just like our children and grandchildren. They 
are vulnerable human beings.
I would like to inform the Assembly that yesterday, 
the Secretary-General kindly agreed to have me, along 
with  the  ministers  of  Guatemala  and  El  Salvador, 
present to him the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in 
the Northern Triangle, which maps out an initiative to 
support and create opportunities so that our countrymen 
are  able  to  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  solidarity 
with everyone in our region — and I repeat, everyone, 
because this cause is our common responsibility.
An  important  part  of  the  solution  to  the  child 
migration  problem  is  to  create  job  opportunities  for 
their parents there, in Central America, and to improve 
security  for  young  people  there,  in  Central  America. 
Both  issues  are  closely  linked  to  the  trade  policies 
of  the  United  States.  We  are  not  asking  for  financial 
assistance or charity. What we are asking for is just and 
equitable trade treatment, as is already given to other 
countries in the world. What we want is to jobs, to create 
those opportunities. Honduras supports efforts to unite 
the  world  in  peace  and  prosperity  through  just  trade 
and better access to major world markets. Within that 
vision,  and  in  the  context  of  the  current  negotiations, 
we demand that Honduras and Central America receive 
the same commercial treatment as Asian countries do, 
in order to enable us to compete.
To be frank, the United States giving preferential 
tariffs and rules of origin to other countries and leaving 
Honduras and Central America out of that would lead 
to thousands of jobs being lost in our region and would 
lead more children to illegally cross the border. I say to 
President Obama, Congress, the North American people 
and the people of the world: Honduras is committed to 
solving the child migration issue and to fighting drug 
trafficking. Many of them know this, clearly, given our 
determination. But if there is not a reasonable degree of 
coherence in our countries’ trade policies, as partners, 
what  is  the  real  message  to  our  people  in  Central 
America?  What  should  Honduran  children  and  their 
parents expect, in Central America?
Given  the  many  problems  we  face  as  Hondurans, 
we have learned to see every crisis as an opportunity, 
and my Government follows the Christian principles of 
solidarity and the common good. We are promoting a 
very ambitious programme called A Better Life, through 
which  we  are  making  small  changes  and  solving  big 
problems. I am pleased to note that, now, some of those 
with the biggest fortunes are also promoting solidarity. 
I invite us all to ask: How much money is enough for a 
human being to feel fulfilled?
20/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
(spoke in English)
How much money is good enough?
(spoke in Spanish)
A  few  days  ago  we  read  about  the  humanitarian 
action  being  undertaken  by  one  of  the  world’s  richest 
men,  Mr.  Bill  Gates,  who,  through  his  foundation,  is 
seeking A Better Life in terms of health for thousands of 
poor families by promoting scientific research into new 
designs  for  basic  sanitation  systems.  I  think  Mr.  Bill 
Gates found the answer to the question.
(spoke in English)
How much money is good enough?
(spoke in Spanish)
As  we  are  working  on  the  same  issue,  I  take  this 
opportunity, with the Assembly’s permission, to invite 
Mr. Bill Gates, a citizen of the world, to my country to 
work on this common endeavour.
It is very encouraging that some of the wealthiest 
people in the world are not seeking the secret of eternal 
youth,  or  trying  to  send  expeditions  to  other  planets 
while  our  brothers  are  dying  on  this  one.  On  the 
contrary, they are aware of the problems of their poorer 
brethren. This is going on in many countries, including 
Honduras,  where  many  good  businesspeople  have 
signed on to work with our A Better Life programme 
and are demonstrating social responsibility by creating 
jobs.  And  that  is  what  this  is  all  about  —  solidarity 
and  social  responsibility,  but  not  romantic  social 
responsibility. In that regard, I would like to quote Pope 
Francis, a citizen of the world, whose words I hope will 
ring in our ears.
“I have never seen a moving van following a funeral 
procession, but there is a treasure we can take with 
us,  a  treasure  that  no  one  can  take  away  —  not 
those things we have kept for ourselves, but what 
we have given to others”.
We  should  think  about  that  and  consider  those 
words. Honduras is a country where 43 per cent of the 
population lives on less than a dollar a day, which is not 
enough  to  pay  for  a  person’s  basic  nutritional  needs. 
That is why we are making a major effort to respond to 
these people’s needs through the Better Life programme, 
thus  enabling  them  to  live  with  dignity.  The  Better 
Life programme is designed to respond to the needs of 
835,000  families,  who  are  getting  help  in  improving 
their  homes,  including  providing  access  to  drinking 
water and basic sanitation, decent roofs overhead and 
A/69/PV.7
floors underfoot, family gardens and monetary support 
to  ensure  that  children  attend  school,  have  improved 
health care and change their living conditions so as to 
achieve a better life.
Our  housing  improvements  include  the  use  of 
clean  stoves,  reducing  wood  consumption  and  smoke, 
which is harmful to women and children’s health and 
which,  according  to  the  World  Health  Organization, 
kills  500,000  women  around  the  world  every  year.  In 
Central  America  alone,  about  35,000  people  die  from 
the  wood  smoke  emitted  from  dirty  cooking  stoves 
every year. With every eco or clean stove installed, we 
make a contribution to the rest of humankind by saving 
15  medium-sized  trees  every  year,  thus  helping  to 
protect the environment. In that regard, I would like to 
highlight the work of former United States Secretary of 
State Hillary Clinton for her Global Alliance for Clean 
Cookstoves initiative, whose goal is to put clean stoves 
in 100 million households by 2020. On this subject we 
share  Mrs.  Clinton’s  vision  and  are  working  hard  to 
achieve it.
When presidents come to the General Assembly of 
the  United  Nations,  they  often  prepare  speeches  they 
deem most appropriate and specific to the lofty heights 
of this great forum, but beyond the words themselves, 
the message I want to convey is that the most important 
thing is for all of us to be accepted as citizens of the 
world,  with  the  same  duty  to  fight  and  defend  our 
territory,  our  families  and  our  planet,  with  the  same 
right to aspire to a better life, and that what is vital is 
the  support  of  those  who  have  the  most  to  those  who 
have the least. If my message today can reach and move 
a few to act, I think it will have been worth coming. I 
would like to remind the Assembly that if we are part of 
the largest forum in the world, it is because we consider 
ourselves  to  be  citizens  of  the  world,  human  beings 
with the same dignity, and therefore all of us, everyone 
of us, equal. Honduras is making progress; Honduras is 
changing; Honduras sends its greetings to all.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Honduras 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Filip Vujanović, President 
of Montenegro
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of Montenegro.
14-54765
21/23
A/69/PV.7 
24/09/2014
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Filip  Vujanović,  President  of 
Montenegro, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Vujanović: I would first like to express 
my  great  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  promote  and  achieve  peace, 
security and prosperity in the world. I would also like 
to  duly  acknowledge  the  work  of  Mr.  John  William 
Ashe, President of the General Assembly at its previous 
session,  to  offer  my  best  wishes  to  President  Kutesa 
for  his  stewardship  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session,  and  to  confirm  Montenegro’s  willingness  to 
cooperate  fully  with  him  in  his  accomplishment  of 
his important duties. I emphasize the relevance of the 
theme of the current session, since it is highly pertinent 
to  our  efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals with the imminent arrival of 2015.
As  ever,  Montenegro  remains  committed  to  an 
effective multilateral system, resting on a strong United 
Nations. As a responsible Member of the United Nations, 
Montenegro  is  therefore  committed  to  continuing 
to  contribute  to  strengthening  the  Organization  and 
building a functional, integrated system that promotes 
respect  for  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law, while devising and implementing global responses 
to global challenges. In that regard, we will continue to 
support  the  process  of  general  reform  and  of  system-
wide  coherence,  as  well  as  the  integrated  Delivering 
as  One  programme  of  action,  based  on  successful 
implementation  at  the  national  level.  I  am  proud  to 
point out here that in March, in the most beautiful part 
of Montenegro’s capital city, Podgorica, we opened the 
United Nations Eco building, host to all the specialized 
United Nations agencies, and offering the best possible 
conditions  for  their  work  and  their  implementation  of 
the Delivering as One concept. I see this project as a 
strong  tool  of  reliable  partnership  for  Montenegro  in 
achieving fundamental United Nations goals.
Nations  human  rights  system.  In  our  approach,  the 
key  priority  is  to  promote  the  rights  of  vulnerable 
groups  —  children,  youth,  the  elderly,  persons  with 
disabilities, and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
persons — and to promote gender equality and the fight 
against discrimination.
Peace and stability, as preconditions for prosperous 
development, can be ensured through positive activism 
in  global  international  organizations,  primarily  in 
the  United  Nations,  and  the  constructive  approach  of 
every country in the sphere of regional policy, as well 
as  a  commitment  to  good-neighbourly  cooperation. 
Therefore,  Montenegro 
this 
approach in bilateral relations and regional initiatives 
in South-East Europe. We are certain that the success 
of  Montenegro  in  the  process  of  integration  into 
the  European  Union  and  NATO  represents  a  major 
contribution to the stability and opening up of prospects 
for development of the wider Balkans region.
strongly  promotes 
Montenegro  strongly  supports  global  efforts 
towards disarmament and non-proliferation. This year, 
we ratified the Arms Trade Treaty, becoming the forty-
fourth  country  to  do  so.  Our  ratification  represents 
our  contribution  towards  the  entry  into  force  of  that 
historic  Treaty,  as  well  as  an  illustration  of  our  firm 
commitment to a responsible global arms trade.
Open and frozen conflicts, from Ukraine across the 
Middle East to Africa, pose a threat to durable global 
stability.  Of  particular  concern  is  the  fact  that  the 
escalation  of  violence  typically  causes  humanitarian 
disasters  and  massive  human  rights  violations.  We 
fully advocate an urgent end to violence and a political 
dialogue that would lead to solutions in accordance with 
international law, the Charter of the United Nations and 
relevant  United  Nations  resolutions.  In  that  context, 
we  believe  that  the  United  Nations  and  international 
community’s activities should place stronger emphasis 
on better utilizing preventive measures under Chapter 
VI of the Charter, with a special focus on mediation as 
a highly cost-effective tool for conflict prevention and 
the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Montenegro will continue to fully support the integration 
of human rights dimensions into all aspects of the work 
of the United Nations and to further strengthen the role 
of the Council in response to violations of human rights, 
while  preserving  the  universality  of  international 
human rights law and the independence of the United 
I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Montenegro’s  strong 
commitment to the responsibility to protect as a matter 
of national priority. Montenegro welcomes the French 
initiative to seek a code of conduct on the use of the veto 
in  situations  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  ethnic  cleansing,  and  remains  keen  on 
putting that proposal into operation.
22/23 
14-54765
24/09/2014 
A/69/PV.7
The  rule  of  law  and  the  protection  of  civilians  in 
peacekeeping  missions  are  of  particular  importance, 
and we stand for the consistent implementation of the 
mandates  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions, 
to  which  we  are  ready  to  contribute.  Unfortunately, 
terrorism still poses an enormous threat to international 
peace and security, as evidenced by current events in the 
Middle East. I consider it necessary to step up efforts 
at  all  levels  in  preventing  terrorism,  in  accordance 
with international instruments and the United Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
Montenegro  strongly  promotes  a  sustainable 
development  policy  and,  in  line  with  our  active 
participation in the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  we  are  committed  to  further 
contribute towards the elaboration of a transformative 
and  ambitious  post-2015  development  framework.  I 
think  that  the  post-2015  development  agenda  must  be 
based on an approach of respect for and the promotion 
of human rights, where human development will truly 
ensure that no one is neglected. Poverty eradication and 
sustainable prosperity for the benefit of all people and 
the planet must be the overarching objective and guide 
the design of a transformative development agenda.
support 
the 
We 
strongly 
important  United 
Nations  mission  implemented  by  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP)  relating  to  human 
development,  which  essentially  affirms  fundamental 
human  values.  We  are  proud  that  two  weeks  ago, 
UNDP  chose  Montenegro  to  host  the  presentation  of 
this  year’s  Human  Development  Report  for  the  South-
East Europe and Central Asia regions. We see this as 
a recognition of Montenegro’s progress, affirmation of 
human development, and proof of a reliable partnership 
between Montenegro and the United Nations.
Finally, I wish to emphasize the fact that the United 
Nations has a responsible partner in Montenegro, which 
will  continue  to  promote  and  pursue  the  goals  and 
values fostered by the Charter.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Montenegro  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
14-54765
23/23
