United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
22nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 9 October 2014, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
consider the reports of the Fifth Committee on agenda 
items 132 and 136.
If  there  is  no  proposal  under  rule  66  of  the  rules 
of procedure, I shall take it that the General Assembly 
decides not to discuss the reports of the Fifth Committee 
that are before the Assembly today.
It was so decided.
The President: Statements will therefore be limited 
to  explanations  of  vote.  The  positions  of  delegations 
regarding the recommendations of the Fifth Committee 
have been made clear in the Committee and are reflected 
in the relevant official records. May I remind members 
that, under paragraph 7 of decision 34/401, the General 
Assembly agreed that
“When the same draft resolution is considered 
in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary  meeting,  a 
delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its 
vote only once, i.e., either in the Committee or in 
plenary  meeting,  unless  that  delegation’s  vote  in 
plenary  meeting  is  different  from  its  vote  in  the 
Committee.”
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance 
with decision 34/401, explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
the 
recommendations contained in the reports of the Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same 
manner  as  was  done  in  the  Fifth  Committee,  unless 
notified otherwise in advance.
Agenda item 132
Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/422)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
draft resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Assembly  will  take 
a  decision  on  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “United 
Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response”. The 
Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 69/3).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 132.
Agenda item 136 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/69/428)
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  the  draft  resolution  recommended  by  the 
Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report (A/69/428). 
The  Fifth  Committee  adopted  the  draft  resolution, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-56244 (E)
*1456244*
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
entitled  “Scale  of  assessments  for  the  apportionment 
of the expenses of the United Nations: requests under 
Article 19 of the Charter”, without a vote. May I take 
that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 69/4).
Agenda item 13
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
(b) Follow-up to the Programme of Action of 
the International Conference on Population 
and Development
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/69/62 
and A/69/122)
The  President:  As  members  will  recall,  the 
twenty-ninth special session of the General Assembly, 
entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development beyond 2014”, was held on 22 September 
2014, 
in  accordance  with  resolutions  65/234  of 
22 December 2010 and 67/250 of 21 February 2013.
It  has  been  brought  to  my  attention  that  many 
Member States were not able to deliver their statements 
at that special session. I wish to state my understanding 
of  the  discontent  felt  by  of  the  delegations  that  were 
unable to deliver their statements within the designated 
time frame at that important gathering. The Secretariat 
is  also  fully  aware  of  the  concerns  raised  by  those 
delegations,  and  it  is  indeed  regrettable  that  a  large 
number of Member States were unable to speak at that 
meeting.
In  light  of  what  happened,  I  have  convened  this 
plenary  meeting  today  under  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda 
item  13,  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  Programme  of 
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and  Development”,  earlier  than  scheduled  in  order  to 
provide  an  additional  opportunity  for  Member  States 
to  further  deliberate  on  the  topic  and  to  have  their 
statements entered into the record.
Mr.  Bamba  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would like to thank you, Mr. President, and express the 
gratitude  of  the  Ivorian  delegation  for  the  resumption 
of  this  debate.  It  gives  Member  States  that  could  not 
express  themselves  on  22  September  at  the  twenty-
ninth  special  session,  on  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD),  held  in  Cairo  in  1994,  the 
opportunity  to  do  so  today.  Côte  d’Ivoire  would 
therefore  like  to  make  its  contribution  to  the  follow-
up to the implementation of the commitments made   in 
Cairo  to  give  appropriate  responses  to  the  persistent 
problems of population and development.
My  country  has  made   significant  progress  in  key 
areas  of  the  Programme  of  Action,  although  those 
advances  were  slowed  down  by  the  decade  of  crisis 
that the country experienced. In the area of education, 
for  example,  Côte  d’Ivoire’s  march  towards  universal 
education has resulted in an increase in primary school 
gross enrolment, which rose from less than 72 per cent 
in 1998 to 94.7 per cent in 2013, with a parity index that 
increased by 41 per cent. Furthermore, the Government 
has  just  adopted  a  measure  aimed  at  making  primary 
school  attendance  mandatory  from  the  age  of  six, 
starting with the 2015-2016 school year.
With  regard  to  health,  efforts  undertaken  in  the 
fight  against  HIV/AIDS  have  allowed  us  to  lower  its 
prevalence rate to 3.7 per cent in 2012, as against 4.7 per 
cent in 2005. The child mortality rate for children under 
5 years fell by 27 per cent, going from 149.5 per 1,000 
in 1994 to 108 per 1,000 in 2012. Maternal mortality, 
after falling from 597 in 1994 to 543 per 100,000 live 
births  in  2005,  unfortunately  had  an  increase  to  614 
deaths per 100,000 live births in 2012.
The  prevalence  of  modern  contraceptives  nearly 
tripled, from 5.7 per cent in 1994 to 14 per cent in 2012. 
Unmet needs for family planning, though still high, are 
clearly decreasing. Those results and others derive from 
the institutional reforms and operational interventions 
aimed  at  putting  the  population  at  the  centre  of  the 
development  process.  Thus,  several  laws  have  been 
promulgated, and several strategic documents have also 
been made  operational.
The  demographic  profile  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  is 
marked by a high fertility rate, estimated at 5 children 
per female in 2012, with adolescent girls contributing 
13 per cent of that figure. The population growth rate of 
2.7 per cent remains one of the highest in the world. The 
dropout rate in school also remains high, especially for 
girls,  because  of  poverty,  sociocultural  problems  and 
the  scourge  of  early  pregnancies.  Furthermore,  the 
combined effects of climate change, with the resulting 
drop in rainfall, water supplies and forest cover, have 
further  impoverished  the  population,  created  food 
insecurity and worsened public health problems.
2/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
With a view to facing those challenges, the Ivorian 
Government  is  working  to  be  able  to  offer  universal 
health coverage so as to provide the public with better 
access  to  health  services,  increase  the  efficiency  and 
availability of the health system, increase the access of 
youth and women to reproductive and family planning 
health services, and continue the far-reaching national 
programme, entitled “Zero pregnancies in the schools”, 
now under way.
Côte d’Ivoire is active in building the foundations 
of its successful emergence in 2020. An important pillar 
will be the effort to improve the demographic dividend 
by means of the necessary strategic investments for a 
strong and prosperous economy. My country is delighted 
with  the  efforts  already  under  way  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community,  and  invites  it  to  increase 
its  efforts  with  a  view  to  achieving  the  goals  agreed 
upon  on  the  issues  of  population  and  development  at 
the  major  international  conferences  and  international 
meetings.
Our common will to build a more just and equitable 
world depends indisputably on promoting human rights. 
In that regard, Côte d’Ivoire is committed to respecting 
the  rights  of  the  individual  without  exception.  My 
delegation  thus  reaffirms  the  commitments  that  my 
country has made, both internationally and regionally, 
in  accordance  with  our  institutional  and  regulatory 
provisions,  our  development  priorities,  our  customs, 
cultures and beliefs. 
From  that  point  of  view,  we  welcome  the  report 
of  the  Secretary-General  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  beyond  2014” 
(A/69/62).  Given  our  concern  about  the  promotion  of 
sustainable  development,  my  country  reaffirms  its 
commitment to the implementation beyond 2014 of the 
ICPD  Programme  of  Action  and  sincerely  hopes  that 
the well-being of humankind will be at the core of the 
post-2015 development agenda.
Mr. Laram (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): We welcome 
this important meeting, which gives us an opportunity 
to express our opinions regarding the holding two weeks 
ago  of  a  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on Population and Development (ICPD).
As an international community, we have highlighted 
development  and  implementation  and  the  progress 
achieved so far. Regrettably, my country still has gaps 
with respect to implementation of the ICPD Programme 
of Action. We are facing challenges and inequalities of 
a socioeconomic nature. 
Many  people  live  in  abject  poverty  throughout 
the world, which is a major challenge that undermines 
the development efforts undertaken. I would therefore 
like to avail myself of this opportunity to highlight the 
importance of the ICPD Programme of Action, which 
asserts  that  human  rights  and  human  dignity  are  a 
sine  qua  non  for  sustainable  development.  It  is  also  a 
fact  that  we  are  facing  a  number  of  recurring  global 
challenges.  We  attach  particular  importance  to  the 
issues of development and population. In that respect, 
we have made tireless efforts to implement the agreed 
development  objectives.  A  number  of  indices  and 
reports  demonstrate  that  most  of  the  objectives  set  in 
the Millennium Development Goals will have been met 
before 2015.
Qatar  has  established  a  national  comprehensive 
strategy  with  respect  to  development.  Our  national 
vision for 2030 is to transform Qatar into a developed 
State  that  can  protect  its  development  and  give 
everyone in our country, as well as future generations, 
a  high  standard  of  living.  Qatar’s  national  vision  has 
produced long-term results and has allowed us to create 
a framework in which to develop national strategies and 
implementation plans. The State adopted a population 
policy in 2009. We have undertaken the implementation 
of  that  policy,  striking  a  balance  between  population 
growth and sustainable development. We shall also seek 
to  implement  the  sustainable  development  goals,  as 
well as the main elements of the post-2015 sustainable 
development agenda.
We  reiterate  today  our  reservations  regarding 
some  controversial  issues  set  out  in  the  Secretary-
General’s reports (A/69/62 and A/69/122) that have to 
do with follow-up measures for the ICPD Programme 
of  Action.  Those  measures  exceed  what  was  agreed 
in  the  Cairo  Plan  of  Action.There  is  no  consensus  on 
matters  relating  to  sexual  orientation,  sexual  identity, 
abortion,  health  and  sexual  rights,  reproductive  and 
sexual health, or global sexual education. That is why 
we would like to reaffirm one of the major principles 
of  the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  -  the  sovereign 
right  of  all  countries  to  implement  recommendations 
that are in line with their national legislations and that 
fully respect the various moral and religious values and 
14-56244
3/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
cultural  backgrounds  of  their  peoples,  in  conformity 
with internationally recognized human rights.
Much  remains  for  us  to  do,  working  together 
as  Governments  and  individuals,  to  implement  the 
objectives and goals of the ICPD Programme of Action - 
to  increase  the  standard  of  living  of  everyone  by 
adopting suitable development and population policies 
and programmes that will help us fight poverty, achieve 
economic  growth,  develop  human  resources  and 
guarantee human rights for all. We hope that our debate 
will yield positive, concrete results and comprehensive 
measures  that  will  facilitate  our  doing  everything  we 
can  to  implement  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  In 
establishing  a  post-2015  development  plan,  we  need 
to  focus  on  the  issues  highlighted  in  the  Cairo  Plan 
of  Action,  especially  women,  the  elderly,  youth,  and 
persons with disabilities.
In conclusion, we would like to reiterate that Qatar 
will spare no effort to continue to honour one of its major 
commitments, that is, respect for and the promotion and 
protection of human rights. We also want to restate our 
commitment  to  implementing  the  ICPD  Programme 
of  Action,  which  is  considered  a  major  milestone  or 
reference  point  for  all  matters  relating  to  population. 
Our  commitment  will  continue  even  after  2014,  and 
we  will  implement  the  Programme  of  Action  with 
full  respect  for  religious,  ethical  and  cultural  values 
and backgrounds and in accordance with our national 
legislation.
the 
Mr.  Bishnoi  (India):  As  we  mark  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development  (ICPD),  India  remains 
committed  to  the  consensus  reached  at  the  ICPD  and 
subsequent  reviews.  India  has  achieved  substantial 
declines  in  infant  and  maternal  mortality  rates  as  a 
consequence  of  targeted  interventions  to  promote 
institutional  deliveries,  as  well  as  a  number  of  other 
interventions  relating  to,  for  example,  the  provision 
of  free  medicines,  diagnostics  and  nutrition.  The 
proportion  of  institutional  births  has  now  reached 
85 per cent, and the Government is working to further 
expand the programme.
Securing  and  promoting  the  health  and  well-
being  of  young  people,  especially  adolescents,  and  of 
women and children is a priority. Reproductive health 
commodities  and  services,  including  comprehensive 
abortion care, are now among the 20 essential services 
of universal health coverage to be provided free of cost. 
Besides  strengthening  the  financial  commitment  to 
health services, the State will maintain its coverage of 
the 100 million women currently using contraceptives 
and  is  committed  to  adding  still  more  women  to  the 
programme by 2020. Overall, our focus is on expanding 
health care for all, as well as on meeting the challenges 
posed  by  a  changing  demographic  profile  and  the 
gradual  shift  of  attention  from  communicable  to 
non-communicable diseases.
In  education,  our  current  focus  is  on  improving 
quality,  the  expansion  of  secondary  and  tertiary 
education,  improving  equity  and  accessibility  for 
girls  and  women,  and  skills  development  to  improve 
employability.
We  have  recently  launched  a  national  adolescent 
health  strategy,  which  comprises  the  provision  of 
information,  counselling,  commodities  and  services, 
and  which  will  cover  all  our  250  million  adolescents 
The strategy realigns the existing approaches in order 
to  focus  on  community-based  health  promotion  and 
prevention.  It  identifies  six  priority  areas  of  action: 
reproductive and sexual health, nutrition, mental health, 
injuries and violence, including domestic and gender-
based violence, substance abuse and non-communicable 
diseases.
Ensuring  gender  equality,  promoting  women’s 
empowerment  and  combating  discrimination  and 
violence  against  women  remain  a  priority.  We  have 
adopted  enabling  legislative  and  policy  frameworks 
for  the  advancement  of  women  and  have  undertaken 
programmes  to  generate  awareness  and  sensitization 
in  order  to  fight  social  prejudices  and  stereotypes. 
The  Government  has  launched  a  new  rights-based, 
non-discriminatory,  adolescent-friendly  programme 
that  reaches  out  to  an  adolescent  population  that  is 
250 million strong.
We are firmly addressing the problem of violence 
against  women.  The  amendments  to  the  criminal  law 
last year significantly broaden the definition of sexual 
assault  and  harassment,  include  new  types  of  violent 
behaviour  such  as  stalking,  and  so  on,  and  aim  for 
greater  accountability  of  public  officials.  The  Sexual 
Harassment  of  Women  at  the  Workplace  (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013 aims to provide 
a safer work environment for women. Those measures 
supplement  the  existing  framework  for  dealing  with 
the crimes of trafficking, domestic violence and sexual 
offences  against  children.  As  part  of  a  multisectoral 
approach  to  violence  against  women,  and  following 
up  on  our  statement  at  the  sixty-sixth  World  Health 
4/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
Assembly  last  year,  the  Government  of  India  worked 
with experienced activists from civil society and legal 
and mental health experts and drew up guidelines and 
protocols  for  the  medico-legal  care  of  survivors  of 
sexual violence.
India has been proactive in sharing its development 
experience with other developing countries, including 
in  the  areas  of  health  care  and  telemedical  services. 
India  is  also  a  major  source  of  cost-effective  generic 
medicines of good quality that are critically important 
to public health strategies in many developing countries.
The Secretary-General’s report entitled “Framework 
of actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development beyond 2014” (A/69/62) identifies several 
challenges and opportunities. Given the importance of 
population and development issues, we expect these to 
be  adequately  reflected  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  The  international  community  must  enhance 
its  cooperative  and  mutually  supportive  role.  The 
provision  of  financial  resources,  technology  transfer, 
technical assistance, access to medicines and capacity-
building, especially in relation to developing countries, 
have not reached optimum levels.
In conclusion, let me reiterate our firm commitment 
to  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  and  its  Programme  of  Action  and  to 
taking the ICPD agenda forward beyond 2014 to tackle 
current challenges both nationally and globally.
Mrs. Bunge (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): Thank 
you, Mr. President, for organizing today’s meeting.
The Argentine Republic attaches great importance 
to  the  debate  on  population  in  the  context  of  the 
three  dimensions  of 
the  sustainable  development 
agenda  -  social,  economic  and  environmental.  We 
are here to renew and deepen our commitment to the 
implementation  of  the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development beyond 2015.
Challenges change and reality evolves, so policies 
and  strategies  also  have  to  evolve  in  order  to  remain 
valid. In that search, we believe that the first meeting 
of 
the  Regional  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
which  was  held  in  2013,  was  of  special  importance 
because it allowed us to see how much progress we have 
made in the implementation of the Cairo Programme of 
Action through substantive policies based on national 
strategies.  The  virtuous  process  of  change  which 
the  countries  of  Latin  America  have  experienced  in 
political, economic, social and cultural terms since the 
holding  of  the  Cairo  Conference  in  1994  is  reflected 
in the many policies, programmes and plans developed 
with a view to achieving the highest quality of life for 
our populations.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the  report 
of 
the  Secretary-General  entitled  “Framework  of 
actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  beyond  2014”  (A/69/62).  Argentina  was 
one of the countries that contributed to the world survey 
on the Cairo Conference beyond 2014, which provides 
timely  information  for  evaluating  the  considerable 
progress  achieved  and  the  challenges  that  remain  in 
implementing the Programme. We confirm that human 
rights and equality are the core of the analytical approach 
underlying the report, and we agree that investment in 
individual human rights, capacity-building and respect 
for the dignity of everyone, without any discrimination 
and  throughout  a  person’s  life  cycle,  are  the  basis  of 
sustainable development.
The  actions  undertaken  by  the  Argentine  State 
since  2003  show  how  fully  aligned  we  are  with  the 
objectives of the Programme of Action. In some cases, 
the Argentine Government has set and achieved goals 
that are more demanding than those set internationally 
and has registered significant progress in formulating 
and 
in  all  priority 
areas.  The  political  will  and  the  determination  of  the 
Argentine Republic to ensure in each decision the full 
exercise of human rights are reflected in the premise of 
helping people to become agents for change.
implementing  public  policies 
Among 
the  achievements  of 
the  Argentine 
Republic in that regard we would note the Immigration 
Act  of  2004,  which  represented  a  paradigm  shift  in 
the  Argentine  migration  policy,  granting  the  right  to 
migrate, not migrate and return, as well as guaranteeing 
the access of migrants to education, health and social 
services regardless of their migration status.
The  national  responsible  sexual  and  reproductive 
health  programme,  which  was  established  by  law  in 
2002,  guarantees  universal  access  to  health  services, 
including  sexual  and  reproductive  health  services, 
thereby  closing  gaps  in  accessibility  to  and  quality 
of  care.  It  promotes  decision-making  that  is  free 
of  discrimination,  coercion  or  violence, 
thereby 
enabling  women  to  participate  in  decision-making, 
14-56244
5/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
including  on  family  planning,and  helping  to  reduce 
maternal  and  child  morbidity  and  mortality,  prevent 
undesired  pregnancies  and  promote  the  sexual  health 
of adolescents.
Law 26150 (2006), on comprehensive sex education, 
guarantees the right of all children and adolescents to 
receive  comprehensive  sexual  education  and  requires 
systematic  action  on  sex  education  throughout  the 
entire public education system.
reality in the quest for open, transparent and democratic 
solutions.
Ms. Kiernan (United States of America): It is an 
honour to speak on behalf of the United States and to 
join  other  Member  States,  United  Nations  agencies 
and  civil  society  in  renewing  our  full  support  for  the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD),  adopted  in 
Cairo nearly 20 years ago to this day.
The  cross-cutting  social  policy  underlying  the 
universal child allowance of 2009 has a positive effect 
on  education,  health  and  gender  equality  and  is  of 
direct  benefit  to  the  socially  vulnerable  populations. 
The foregoing are just a few examples.
Let me begin by commending the work that led to the 
special session and that has informed our discussions. I 
want to thank the United Nations Population Fund, the 
ICPD Beyond 2014 secretariat and the United Nations 
Population Division for their many contributions. 
Finally,  we  would  mention  the  adoption  of  Law 
26862 (2013) on medically assisted reproduction, which 
guarantees  comprehensive  access  to  those  practices 
and  requires  public  and  private  social  protection 
programmes, as well as prepaid medical care, to cover 
expenses.
We are aware of the challenges that remain in terms 
of improving the quality of life of our populations and 
the need to guarantee equal and equitable treatment for 
all. The results of the review undertaken by the United 
Nations show that, despite the important progress made 
in  reducing  poverty  and  improving  economic  growth 
since  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and  Development  in  1994,  many  countries  still  have 
problems  in  terms  of  satisfying  basic  needs  -  decent 
work, full employment and access to social protection. 
The gains made motivate us to renew the commitment 
to  continuing  our  work  on  outstanding  issues.  At  the 
regional level, we rely on the Montevideo Consensus as a 
framework for national progress based on the paradigm 
of equality, inclusion and equity and a people-centred 
approach to rights, family and community.
We  are  fully  committed  to  the  implementation  of 
the Programme of Action, bearing in mind the regional 
review and the recommendations for beyond 2014. We 
understand  that  that  perspective  brings  indispensable 
elements  for  sustainable  development  and  should  be 
incorporated  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
based on the agreements achieved in the framework of 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals.
Argentina  has  decided  to  continue  to  embody  a 
political, economic and social model underlying a State 
that is active and committed to the improvement of our 
illuminating  what 
The  1994  Cairo  Conference  changed  the  global 
discussion, 
becomes  more 
resoundingly  clear  with  each  passing  year,  namely, 
that  human  rights,  gender  equity,  global  health 
and  development  must  go  hand  in  hand.  The  Cairo 
goals  remain  the  foundation  of  our  work  to  promote 
reproductive health and rights and the empowerment of 
women and young people. As United States Secretary 
of State John Kerry pointed out, societies where women 
and  girls  are  safe,  where  women  are  empowered  to 
exercise  their  rights  and  move  their  communities 
forward - those societies are more prosperous and more 
stable, not occasionally, but always.
The international community has made impressive 
strides, especially in education and in reducing maternal 
and child mortality, but progress has been uneven and has 
left many behind. According to the operational review 
and  the  index  report  prepared  for  our  discussions  on 
the ICPD Beyond 2014 (see A/69/122), many countries 
agree that those gaps require urgent attention. To make 
reproductive health and respect for reproductive rights a 
reality for all, we must get health services to those who 
still lack them, including many women, young people 
and those caught in conflicts and crises. We must also 
stand up for every individual, regardless of his or her 
sexual  orientation  or  gender  identity,  and  protect  the 
rights of individuals to make their own choices about 
sexuality and reproduction, and to make these choices 
free from coercion, discrimination and violence.
We must do more to empower young people. Over 
40  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  is  under  the 
age  of  25.  The  choices  they  make  will  have  profound 
consequences  for  themselves  and  the  world.  Many 
must  navigate  in  treacherous  waters.  More  than  two 
6/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
million  adolescents  live,  for  instance,  with  HIV. 
Three  million  girls  each  year  are  subjected  to  genital 
mutilation  or  cutting,  and  many  will  suffer  lifelong 
health consequences as a result. Despite near universal 
commitment  to  eliminate  early  and  forced  marriage, 
one  in  three  girls  in  developing  countries  will  be 
married  before  she  is  18.  More  than  15  million  girls 
will give birth each year. Those early pregnancies can 
kill,  cause  lifelong  disabilities,  cut  off  opportunities 
and extinguish hope. Many young mothers never finish 
school.  Their  chance  to  learn  and  earn  enough  to  lift 
their families and communities out of poverty may be 
lost forever.
We  must  take  more  concrete  and  decisive  steps 
to  reach  our  goal  of  greater  gender  equality  and 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  We  must  end  the 
scourge  of  gender-based  violence,  both  in  peace  time 
and in war time. We must end impunity for perpetrators, 
provide  services  to  survivors  and  prevent,  not  just 
punish,  such  human  rights  abuses.  Integrating  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  services  is  also  a  priority. 
Providing  maternal  health  care,  contraception,  and 
the  treatment  and  prevention  of  sexually-transmitted 
illnesses,  as  a  package,  is  not  just  a  matter  of 
convenience, it is a matter of life and death. We know 
that providing family planning to all who want it could 
prevent  nearly  one-third  of  the  estimated  300,000 
maternal deaths that occur every year.
Finally, we must keep the eyes of the world focused 
on  achieving  the  ICPD  goals  beyond  2014.  The  two 
decades since Cairo have confirmed that Governments 
have chosen the right path, and we must continue to push 
forward. The post-2015 development agenda offers an 
opportunity for the global community to come together 
around  a  new  set  of  development  goals  for  the  next 
15 years, and the United States stands behind of that. 
We  fully  support  a  dedicated  goal  to  promote  gender 
equality  and  empower  women  and  girls.  Recognizing 
that aspiration could be one of the most transformative 
goals we could set in the post-2015 development agenda.
The  special  session  has  been  an  opportunity  for 
everyone to reaffirm support for the ICPD agenda and 
to ensure that we address those issues in the post-2015 
development  agenda.  We  must  seize  this  chance,  and 
the United States is committed to doing its part.
Ms. Stener (Norway): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, 
Sweden and my own country, Norway. We are encouraged 
by the overwhelming support for and commitment to the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  expressed  by 
the world leaders at the special session on the findings 
and recommendations of the report on the ICPD Beyond 
2014 review. We believe that the outcomes of the ICPD 
Beyond 2014 review and the special session provide the 
United Nations system and Member States with a solid 
foundation  for  continued  efforts  to  ensure  universal 
access to sexual and reproductive health and rights.
Among  the  many  important  recommendations  for 
future  work  in  this  area,  we  would  especially  like  to 
underline the need for access to comprehensive sexual 
education.  The  solid  support  from  world  leaders  at 
the special session is also a strong message about the 
need to include universal access, on a priority basis, to 
sexual and reproductive health and rights in the post-
2015 development agenda.
While we recommit to the promises made in Cairo 
and  welcome  the  enhanced  commitments  and  efforts 
that are being made to fully implement the ICPD, we 
believe that it is time to go beyond the Cairo Programme 
of Action. Every person has the right to be free from 
discrimination  and  to  fully  enjoy  all  human  rights 
without distinctions of any kind, including those based 
on sexual orientation or gender identity.
Finally,  on  a  practical  note,  the  full  statement 
that  Norway’s  State  Secretary  planned  to  deliver  on 
22 September has been submitted to PaperSmart.
Ms.  Ravilova-Borovik 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke  in  Russian):  We  are  grateful  for  the  convening 
of today’s plenary meeting. It is our view that the Cairo 
Programme  of  Action  of  1994  remains  the  ground-
breaking reference point for inter-State cooperation in 
the area of population and development. The priorities 
and strategic approaches agreed to 20 years ago are still 
fully relevant and vital.
The Russian Federation attaches great significance 
to  the  review  of  the  implementation  of  the  decisions 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD),  including  in  the  context  of 
agreeing  on  new  priorities  for  global  socioeconomic 
cooperation in the post-2015 period. We are convinced 
that population issues should be adequately reflected in 
the sustainable development goals being established. In 
that context, the key challenge, we believe, is satisfying 
the  basic  requirements  of  the  population  in  terms  of 
access  to  health,  education,  food,  water,  energy  and 
employment.  We  are  persuaded  that  it  is  counter-
14-56244
7/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
productive to focus international efforts on promoting 
concepts  that  are  not  universally  supported  or  that 
run  counter  to  the  social  values  of  entire  groups  of 
countries. Therefore, the Programme of Action should 
not be reviewed but rather should serve in future as a 
political framework and provide guiding principles for 
the work of the United Nations and of Member States.
Achieving progress in demographic development is 
a priority of the State policy of the Russian Federation, 
including in the context of sustainable socioeconomic 
progress.  Among  our  strategic  challenges  were 
overcoming  the  demographic  crisis  at  the  start  of  the 
1990s and comprehensive support for the family. 
The  recent  special  session  to  review  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  was  to  become  an  optimal 
platform for an open and comprehensive consideration 
of  population  issues  with  a  view  to  advancing  the 
global development agenda in the post-2015 period. We 
deeply regret the fact that the Russian delegation and 
the delegations of 60 other countries were not able to 
present  their  population  scenarios  during  the  special 
session. We hope that in the future that situation will 
not be repeated. Member States can find the text of the 
statement that was to have been delivered by the Deputy 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation 
at  the  twenty-ninth  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly on our Mission’s website. We understand that 
it will also be available on the websites of the United 
Nations Population Fund and the General Assembly.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  confirm  that  the 
Russian Federation wants to continue dialogue with all 
our  partners  on  the  issues  of  population,  and  we  are 
prepared to strengthen our multilateral cooperation in 
that area.
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): At the outset, let me thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  outstanding  work  and 
elaborate reports, “Framework of actions for the follow-
up  to  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  beyond 
2014” (A/69/62) and “Recurrent themes and key elements 
identified  during  the  sessions  of  the  Commission  on 
Population and Development” (A/69/122).
This  year,  we  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD) with a comprehensive assessment 
of the status of the implementation of the Programme 
of  Action  as  a  critical  opportunity  to  take  stock  of 
achievements and remaining challenges and to define a 
clear vision for future action. The forty-seventh session 
of  the  Commission  on  Population  and  Development 
and  the  twenty-ninth  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Programme  of 
Action  on  the  ICPD,  held  on  22  September,  provided 
appropriate forums for deliberations in that regard.
Here, let me briefly comment on the status of ICPD 
implementation in my country over the past 20 years. 
Georgia,  while  going  through  a  socioeconomic  and 
political  transition,  has  made  significant  progress 
vis-à-vis the ICPD Programme of Action. The priorities 
in  the  2000  Cairo  Plan  of  Action  in  the  areas  of 
population  development,  reproductive  health,  women 
and  youth  empowerment,  protection  of  displaced 
populations,  an  enabling  environment  for  children 
with disabilities and for the elderly have been reflected 
in  our  national  development  plans  and  legislation. 
Historic gains were documented in reproductive health, 
including significant decreases in maternal, infant and 
under-five mortality rates, all of which were basically 
cut in half. Abortion rates have also decreased by half 
from 3.7 per cent to 1.6 per cent, with a parallel increase 
in  a  contraceptive  prevalence  rate  from  20  per  cent 
to  54  per  cent.  Screening  programmes  for  breast  and 
cervical cancer were introduced in 2005, and universal 
access  to  HIV  treatment  has  been  maintained  since 
2003. Georgia introduced its flagship universal health 
care programme in February 2013. Whereas two years 
ago, just half of the population was covered by public 
or private health insurance, today, every citizen of the 
country has a basic package of health services.
The  expansion  of  social  protection  schemes  has 
provided  a  more  reliable  security  net  for  socially 
vulnerable population groups, including families living 
in  poverty,  old-age  pensioners,  internally  displaced 
persons  and  persons  with  disabilities.  Last  year,  old-
age  pensions  and  social  allowances  were  increased 
from the 2012 baselines by 50 per cent and 100 per cent, 
respectively.
Women’s  empowerment  has  also  been  given 
high  priority  in  our  national  development  agenda. 
Georgia exceeded a 10 per cent threshold for women’s 
representation in the Parliament in 2012. Women hold 
key  positions  and  ministerial  portfolios  in  justice, 
education  and  foreign  affairs  and  lead  the  National 
Security Council and the Central Election Commission 
of Georgia. The economic empowerment of women has 
also been visible since 1994, with 30 per cent of women 
8/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
being  primary  breadwinners  and  20  per  cent  heading 
business enterprises.
Based  on  an  international  assessment,  Georgia 
has  been  ranked  among  the  countries  successful  in 
combating trafficking, an advance achieved under the 
leadership of the National Coordination Council against 
Trafficking in Human Beings.
In  response  to  young  people’s  special  needs  and 
because of the importance of investing in youth for the 
country’s  sustainable  development,  a  national  youth 
policy  was  adopted  earlier  this  year  and  elaborated 
through a participatory process with the United Nations 
Population  Fund  and  UNICEF,  based  on  knowledge 
gained  from  surveys  of  the  sexual  and  reproductive 
health of young people and youth situation analysis.
Despite 
those  achievements,  however,  much 
remains  to  be  done –  and  not  just  in  my  country,  but 
in  many  parts  of  the  world.  We  therefore  endorse  the 
urgency of the findings of the ICPD Beyond 2014 review, 
which  show  that,  despite  significant  gains  in  poverty 
reduction and economic growth since the ICPD, many 
have been left behind, with basic needs unfulfilled, and 
lacking meaningful work or access to social protection 
or public services in health or education, and that there 
are still significant barriers that prevent many people in 
the world from enjoying their human rights.
To tackle the remaining challenges in my country, 
specific  measures  are  being  taken,  aimed  at  ensuring 
sustainable and inclusive economic growth, the benefits 
of which will be enjoyed by the whole population. That is 
emphasized in the socioeconomic development strategy 
of my country for 2020, which provides for demographic 
improvement,  equal  opportunities  for  persons  with 
disabilities,  the  fulfilment  of  young  people’s  special 
needs, the integration and participation of older persons 
in society, the further enhancement of gender equality 
and the empowerment of women, and the improvement 
of  the  collection,  analysis,  dissemination  and  use  of 
sex-  and  age-disaggregated  data  for  informed  policy-
making. My country has taken several legislative and 
institutional steps to address human rights challenges, 
including  the  adoption  of  a  national  human  rights 
strategy for 2014-2020, a national human rights action 
plan for 2014-2015 and a new antidiscrimination law.
In  conclusion,  let  me  underline  once  again  what 
my  Prime  Minister  said  from  this  very  rostrum  (see 
A/S-29/PV.1),  namely,  that  my  country  is  proud  to 
join 
in  reaffirming 
international  community 
the 
its  support  for  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  and 
stands  ready  to  further  contribute  to  that  effort.  As 
reported in the record of the United Nations Economic 
Commission  for  Europe  2013  High-level  Regional 
Conference,  “Enabling  Choices:  Population  Priorities 
for  the  21st  Century”,  we  support  the  human  rights-
centred  approach  for  the  post-2014  programme  of 
action. Furthermore, the experience clearly shows that 
only  a  comprehensive,  results-oriented,  rights-  and 
evidence-based strategic planning process that engages 
all concerned stakeholders and focuses both on access 
to  and  the  quality  of  services  can  ensure  progress 
towards the equality, individual dignity, well-being and 
sustainable development of all nations.
Mr. Nekiguchi (Japan): I would like to express my 
gratitude to the President of the General Assembly, the 
staff of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) 
and  the  other  staff  who  contributed  to  the  successful 
organization of this meeting. It is an honour for me to 
take this opportunity to review the developments since 
the  1994  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD), in Cairo, and to convey our views 
and position on the world beyond 2014.
The key to addressing population and development 
issues is without a doubt the empowerment of women. 
It  is  women  who  play  a  vital  role  in  the  human  life 
cycle,  from  birth  through  old  age.  But  they  are  also 
among the most vulnerable members of society. They 
need universal access to sexual and reproductive health 
services as well as to information and education. It is 
essential to ensure their fundamental rights.
The ICPD Programme of Action has served as the 
international community’s guideline on population and 
development issues. Based on a people-centred approach 
focusing on individuals, the ICPD Programme of Action 
has promoted gender equality and the empowerment of 
women and girls and has contributed to the achievement 
of human security, which is one of the most important 
guiding  principles  of  Japan’s  development  assistance 
strategy.
Japan fully supports the ICPD Programme of Action 
and  has  long  been  committed  to  its  implementation. 
Immediately  following  the  Cairo  Conference,  we 
launched Japan’s Global Issues Initiative on Population 
and  AIDS  –  a  seven-year  programme  package, 
amounting  to  $3  billion,  to  promote  family  planning, 
health education and HIV/AIDS prevention. It has been 
followed  by  various  additional  assistance  packages 
14-56244
9/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
focusing  on  sexual  and  reproductive  health,  maternal 
and child health, and the empowerment of women.
Japan  continues 
to  make  contributions.  The 
advancement  of  the  role  of  women  has  been  and  will 
continue  to  be  one  of  the  pillars  of  Japanese  official 
development  assistance.  At  last  year’s  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  my  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Shinzo 
Abe, highlighted “womenomics” (see A/68/PV.12) and 
pledged to implement assistance in excess of $3 billion 
over three years that would place women at the centre. 
As  part  of  this  pledge,  Japan  organized  a  symposium 
of the World Assembly for Women in Tokyo one month 
ago.
In response to the recent humanitarian crisis of the 
abduction  of  schoolgirls  by  Boko  Haram  in  Nigeria, 
Japan  extended  emergency  grant  aid  amounting  to 
$855,000 to UNFPA and other organizations to support 
the abducted schoolgirls, their families and the affected 
communities. 
Japan is also among the most active countries for 
international  advocacy.  The  Japan  Parliamentarians 
Federation  for  Population  was  established  in  1974  as 
the  world’s  first  non-partisan  organization  devoted 
to  population  issues.  Since  then,  it  has  made  every 
effort  to  advocate  for  population  issues  in  close 
cooperation  with  its  counterparts  around  the  world. 
The  Government  of  Japan  supports  the  activities  of 
international parliamentarians through the Japan Trust 
Fund at UNFPA.
We  seek  to  contribute  also  to  the  fruitful  debate 
the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
formulating 
Japan,  in  cooperation  with  the  International  Planned 
Parenthood  Federation  (IPPF),  recently  co-organized 
a  side  event  entitled  “Gender,  HIV  and  Sexual  and 
Reproductive  Health  and  Rights  in  the  Post-2015 
Framework”  on  the  margins  of  the  AIDS  Conference 
in  Melbourne,  Australia.  We  renew  our  commitment 
to contributing to the successful implementation of the 
framework of ICPD beyond 2014.
Regarding the world beyond 2014, the international 
community  must  collaborate  in  order  to  cope  with 
the  many  remaining  and  emerging  challenges.  Today 
we  are  faced  with  rapid  demographic  changes  and 
an  increasingly  diversified  set  of  concerns.  In  some 
regions,  particularly  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  nations 
are  still  showing  high  increases  in  fertility.  Many 
young  people  are  suffering  from  challenges  such  as 
unemployment, malnutrition and poor access to health 
services. It is essential to continue to provide support 
for those in need to satisfy their unmet needs, including 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  services  as  well  as 
information and education.
At the other end of the spectrum, troublingly low 
fertility is found in some counties in regions such as East 
Asia and Europe. Many countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and other regions are, in turn, 
exhibiting  such  trends.  Given  such  trends,  the  world 
is  ageing.  Even  a  region  where  the  population  is  still 
young today will have to face an aged society in the near 
future.  An  ageing  society  without  healthy  longevity 
will encounter many problems, including an increasing 
cost of social security. This may even threaten global 
economic  sustainability.  Staying  healthy  even  as  we 
grow  older  is  therefore  an  important  goal.  If  coupled 
with healthy and active longevity, an ageing society can 
be a blessing.
The proportion of our population that is aged has 
become the highest in the world; currently, one in four 
persons in Japan is older than 65 years of age. While 
major reforms have been and will continue to be planned 
to deal with the issues of an ageing society, Japan was 
ranked  first  among  countries  in  terms  of  healthy  life 
expectancy in both 1990 and 2010, according to a study 
published in the Lancet magazine in 2012.
The  realization  in  Japan  of  universal  health 
coverage  as  early  as  1961  surely  played  an  important 
role in achieving the remarkable health and longevity of 
the Japanese people. Universal health coverage reaches 
the  entire  population,  including  the  most  vulnerable 
and  marginalized  people,  of  all  ages  and  generations. 
By eliminating disparities in access to essential health 
services, universal health coverage can also contribute 
to inclusive economic growth.
The world beyond 2014 must deal with diversified 
and  complicated  challenges  and  tasks.  The  tasks  of 
ensuring  maternal  and  child  health,  empowering 
women,  girls  and  young  people,  providing  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  services,  encouraging  an 
economically  active  population  and  supporting  an 
ageing society - all that rests on our shoulders. There 
may be no miracle solution, but one key element should 
be ensuring healthy lives for all at all ages. Throughout 
our life cycle, from childhood to adulthood and through 
old  age,  health  and  wellness  are  human  needs.  The 
promotion  of  a  work/life  balance  and  family-friendly 
environments,  coupled  with  the  implementation  of 
measures  for  gender  equality  and  appropriate  health 
10/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
systems  as  seen  through  the  lens  of  universal  health 
coverage,  should  be  essential  components  of  our 
strategy.  Japan  stands  ready  to  share  its  experiences 
and extend its support in that regard.
issues.  Even 
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Over 
the  past  two  decades,  the  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  has  provided 
a  global  road  map  for  addressing  population  and 
development 
the  objectives 
stipulated  in  the  1994  Programme  of  Action  seem 
valid  and  pertinent  to  present  circumstances  and 
requirements, though we need to be innovative as the 
world population ages. I commend the forward-looking 
approach  of  the  founders  of  this  comprehensive  and 
balanced document.
today, 
The world is undergoing a historic transition in its 
population age structures, with fundamental impacts on 
the economic and social lives of its inhabitants. In order 
to  have  healthy,  educated  and  prosperous  populations 
that  will  be  the  engine  and  fortifier  of  sustainable 
development, we must combat poverty. That means that 
we must empower the poor and deprived and those who 
live in vulnerable situations. Addressing the challenges 
requires  support  for  inclusive  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development  through  enabled  national 
societies within an enabling international environment. 
To lessen inequalities, Governments should undertake 
more robust steps in support of the equitable distribution 
of development gains. In the same vein, the provision of 
basic social services should remain an integral part of 
national and international measures to achieve poverty 
eradication.
More  than  half  of  Iran’s  population  is  under  30. 
This  young  generation  is  thought  of  as  providing  a 
golden opportunity, an asset for achieving sustainable 
development.  At  the  same  time,  Iran’s  population  is 
rapidly ageing. These developments will have noticeable 
economic and social implications. The shrinking of the 
innovative  young  generation,  whose  members  offer 
efficient  expertise  and  energy,  is  deemed  an  obstacle 
to securing resilient and sustained development in the 
long term. Following a few decades of successful low-
fertility  promotion  policies,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran has recently decided to shift gears with a view to 
sustaining its population dynamics so as to ensure an 
empowered, educated and prosperous society.
The Islamic Republic of Iran has been successful in 
achieving many of the ICPD objectives and Millennium 
to 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  even  prior 
their 
deadlines. Iran’s achievements in the areas of decreasing 
child  and  maternal  mortality  rates,  enhancing  access 
to  medical  services,  including  prenatal  health-care 
services,  and  providing  those  affected  by  HIV/AIDS 
with care, treatment and prevention have received high 
recognition from relevant international bodies.
From  a  more  general  and  sustained  perspective, 
over the past two decades since the adoption of the ICPD 
outcome and its Programme of Action, Iran has worked 
continually  to  provide  access  to  inclusive  education 
to all boys and girls, even in the remotest parts of the 
country,  as  well  as  training  and  health  care  for  all, 
without  discrimination.  The  results  are  well  reflected 
in  relevant  United  Nations  reports  on  the  MDGs  and 
the ICPD goals.
However,  I  would  like  to  call  the  attention  of 
the  Assembly  to  the  illegal  and  inhumane  economic 
coercive  measures  and  sanctions  imposed  against  my 
people, with negative implications for their enjoyment 
of  basic  human  rights  as  well  as  for  our  national 
development  agenda,  in  flagrant  contravention  of 
the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations and in 
disregard  for  the  content  of  the  ICPD.  The  sanctions 
have  impeded  timely  and  affordable  access  to  the 
medicine,  vaccines,  equipment,  commodities  and 
technologies  that  are  necessary  for  providing  health 
care services. It is incumbent on the world community 
to stop such inhumane and illegal acts.
I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
reports  entitled  “Recurrent  themes  and  key  elements 
identified  during  the  sessions  of  the  Commission 
on  Population  and  Development”  (A/69/122)  and 
“Framework  of  actions  for  the  follow-up  to  the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  beyond  2014” 
(A/69/62). However, I would like to emphasize that the 
use  in  the  reports  of  controversial  terms  and  phrases 
that  do  not  enjoy  consensus  among  the  membership 
will not be helpful in advancing our future discussions 
on population issues, including the ICPD Beyond 2014.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  a 
safe  and  healthy  world  is  attainable  only  if  mothers 
no longer lose their lives giving birth, only if children 
are  no  longer  robbed  of  their  childhoods,  and  only  if 
every girl and boy finds the doors of a school open to 
them and enjoys easy access to quality education and 
training, health care services and nutritious food.
14-56244
11/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): Indonesia acknowledges 
the  great  importance  of  the  twenty-ninth  special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  culmination 
of the activities mandated by the General Assembly in 
its  resolution  65/234.  We  take  note  of  the  findings  of 
the  operational  review,  as  reflected  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  entitled  “Framework  of  actions 
for  the  follow-up  to  the  Programme  of  Action  of 
the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  beyond  2014”  (A/69/62).  The  review 
indicates 
that  despite  considerable  achievements 
during  the  20-year  implementation  of  the  Programme 
of Action of the International Conference on Population 
and  Development  (ICPD),  progress  in  some  critical 
aspects has been slow, unequal and fragmented, while 
new challenges and opportunities have emerged.
Indonesia  believes  that  addressing  the  gap  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  requires 
new  commitments,  cooperation  and  concerted  efforts 
by  Governments  at  all  levels,  with  the  support  and 
participation  of  all  relevant  stakeholders,  including 
civil  society  organizations  and  the  private  sector.  As 
one  of  the  pioneering  countries,  Indonesia  has  been 
implementing  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  for 
20  years  and  is  strongly  committed  to  making  real 
contributions to the achievement of progress in various 
areas  of  population  and  development.  Indonesia’s 
notable  accomplishments  include  a  reduction  in  the 
poverty level from 17 per cent in 2007 to 11.4 per cent 
in  2013,  thanks  to  pro-poor,  pro-job  and  pro-rural 
development policies.
In addition, Indonesia has maintained its focus on 
expanding  access  to  basic  services  such  as  universal 
education  for  12  years,  universal  coverage  of  health 
care  and  nutrition,  and  family  planning;  investing  in 
basic infrastructure such as sanitation and clean water; 
involving  poor  communities 
in  poverty-reduction 
efforts and capacity-building for that purpose; creating 
a  social  security  system  for  the  vulnerable  and  the 
poor;  and  reducing  the  significant  disparities  among 
the provinces as well as among urban and rural areas.
Indonesia,  known  as  an  international  leader  in 
family  planning,  recognizes  the  manifold  aspects  of 
the  interrelationship  between  population  growth  and 
development  through  the  changing  emphasis  of  the 
stated  goals  in  family  planning.  That  can  necessitate 
shifting  the  paradigm  away  from  a  target-driven 
orientation  to  one  based  on  the  concept  of  demand 
fulfilment. Increased attention to the quality of care has 
been seen as an effective way to address unmet demands 
for  reproductive  health  information  and  services.  In 
so  doing,  Indonesia  is  pursuing  some  critical  steps, 
primarily  by  developing  human  resources,  improving 
infrastructure, 
protocols, 
promoting the integration of family planning services 
as benefit packages of national social health insurance, 
and  tripling  the  budget  for  family  planning  over  the 
past five years.
developing  medical 
the 
top  phase  of 
Indonesia  will  reach 
the 
demographic dividend between 2028 and 2031, given the 
youth potential of 65 million that will be contributing 
to  long-term  socioeconomic  development.  Indonesia 
is  committed  to  preparing  and  protecting  the  rights 
of young people in health, education and employment 
as  well  as  to  encouraging  them  to  become  active  in 
community  activities.  The  Government’s  initiative  to 
include  the  health  and  reproductive  rights  of  young 
people  in  the  policy  agenda  through  a  programme 
entitled “Generation with a plan” has become a national 
movement, which is rooted in family norms and values.
The  empowerment  of  women,  gender  equality 
and the health of youth and children have gained full 
recognition  as  integral  parts  of  national  development. 
Through  appropriate  efforts,  Indonesia  has  managed 
to  reduce  the  infant  mortality  rate  from  57  for  every 
1000  live  births  in  1994  to  32  in  2012.  In  addressing 
the  maternal  mortality  rate,  the  Government  has 
improved  people’s  access 
to  reproductive  health 
services, 
including  maternal  health  services,  by 
gradually providing universal health care coverage for 
all  Indonesians.  The  national  social  health  insurance 
system will cover 86 million Indonesians who are poor 
or at risk of falling into poverty, with premiums paid by 
the Government. By 2019, all Indonesians are expected 
to be covered. Furthermore, Indonesia has increased its 
national budget allocation for social security.
As  an  archipelagic  country,  Indonesia  is  at  risk 
of bearing the negative effects of climate change. We 
continue  to  provide  education,  in  particular  to  people 
living in coastal and agricultural areas, aimed at reducing 
exposure  to  catastrophic  climate  change.  We  are  also 
endeavouring  to  reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
by  up  to  26  per  cent.  Such  efforts  have  increased 
understanding  of  the  relationship  between  population 
dynamics and climate change and have improved local 
government capacity to undertake mitigation activities 
and develop early warning systems.
12/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
The  special  session  is  indeed  timely,  ensuring  as 
it does that we learn lessons from the implementation 
of  the  MDGs  and  that  the  Programme  of  Action  is 
inclusive and relevant within the post-2015 development 
agenda. We would also like to take this opportunity to 
welcome  the  report  of  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (A/68/970)  and  the 
Assembly’s  adoption  in  September  of  the  proposed 
goals  (resolution  68/309).  The  post-2015  process  will 
also provide opportunities to address new and emerging 
challenges,  ensuring  that  no  one  is  left  behind, 
based  on  the  principles  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.
like 
that 
to  emphasize 
Indonesia  would 
the 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
should  be  guided  by 
the  Programme  of  Action 
principles,  including  respect  for  national  laws  and 
development priorities, as well as religious and cultural 
values and diversity. We would also like to emphasize 
that  in  order  to  successfully  address  the  gaps  in  the 
ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  its  overall  balance  must 
be preserved. Imposing the priorities or value systems 
of one country on another is not acceptable and could 
threaten the hard-won 1994 Cairo consensus.
In conclusion, we would like to reaffirm our strong 
commitment to the ICPD Programme of Action and its 
further implementation beyond 2014. Indonesia stands 
ready  to  contribute  constructively  in  the  upcoming 
intergovernmental processes.
Mr.  Sarufa  (Papua  New  Guinea):  Let  me  thank 
you, Sir, for convening and presiding over this meeting 
at a moment when we mark the twentieth anniversary 
of  the  adoption  of  the  International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  Programme  of 
Action.  We  pledge  to  work  with  all  stakeholders  to 
ensure that we do not regress and that instead, in the 
course of implementing the ICPD Programme of Action 
beyond  2014,  we  consolidate  the  gains  that  we  have 
made in the two decades since the Cairo Conference.
Papua New Guinea commends the excellent work 
that  has  been  done,  as  reflected  in  the  scope  and 
depth  of  the  report  of  the  Commission  on  Population 
and  Development  on 
session 
(E/2014/25-E/CN.9/2014/7)  and  the  themes  and  key 
elements contained therein.
forty-seventh 
its 
The  ICPD  Pogramme  of  Action  is  a  visionary 
platform whose relevance and importance today cannot 
be overemphasized. Papua New Guinea therefore fully 
subscribes and recommits to the Programme of Action 
itself and to its fundamental principles and objectives 
of stabilizing world population, promoting responsible, 
sustainable consumption and production, and protecting 
the  environment  so  that  sustainable  development  is 
possible for today’s and future generations.
For my country, Papua New Guinea, a cornerstone of 
our development road map is a focus on people-centred 
population  management  and  stabilization.  It  requires 
individuals,  especially  women  and  girls,  to  take  on 
leadership  roles  and  to  assume  full  responsibility 
for  improving  their  livelihoods  through  appropriate 
measures.  This  now  forms  an  integral  part  of  our 
national  sustainable  development  road  map,  known 
as  Vision  2050,  and  other  subsidiary  frameworks, 
including  the  2014  national  strategy  for  responsible 
sustainable development.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  now  under 
consideration must ensure that the important outcomes 
of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  are  adequately 
integrated  in  the  new  set  of  sustainable  development 
goals. If humankind is to have a sustainable future, the 
drivers  of  population  growth,  poverty,  environmental 
degradation  and 
to  be 
decelerated at all levels, but that must be done in such 
a  way  as  to  ensure  that  basic  human  needs  are  met. 
We must be mindful that the natural environment can 
sufficiently provide for the needs of humankind but not 
for its greed.
inequality  urgently  need 
We also urge that there be intensified commitment 
and  strong  ownership  on  the  part  of  leaders  and 
all  stakeholders  in  order  to  accelerate  affirmative 
action  —  including  through  education,  advocacy, 
policy,  legislation  and  enforcement  at  all  levels  —  to 
promote the equality, empowerment and human rights 
of women, and also in order to ensure that there is zero 
tolerance for all forms of violence and discrimination 
against  women  and  girls.  Those  are  prerequisites  for 
achieving not only the ICPD Programme of Action, but 
also  the  post-2015  development  agenda  that  we  adopt 
next September.
My Government values our women and girls, who 
constitute half of our population, as equal development 
partners. We are ensuring that gender empowerment and 
equality continue to be a cornerstone of our responsible 
sustainable  development.  As  a  demonstration  of  that 
commitment, Papua New Guinea has earmarked funding 
of $10 million this year for various initiatives, including 
partnering with the United Nations Population Fund to 
14-56244
13/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
make  available  40,000  contraceptive  implants  as  an 
important  intervention  measure  for  the  health  of  our 
women and girls of childbearing age. That will be scaled 
up to $20 million by 2015. We are also partnering with 
our  development  partners  by  investing  in  upgrading 
vital midwifery skills, along with improving our health 
referral  system  to  address  the  problems  posed  by 
complicated pregnancies.
Our Government has helped with the seed capital 
for  the  first  national  women’s  bank  and  microcredit 
schemes to involve our people at the grass-roots level 
and enable them to become owners and drivers of their 
future  well-being.  In  addition,  we  are  prioritizing 
small and medium-sized enterprises in a move to drive 
development forward. Furthermore, Papua New Guinea 
is  also  developing  a  national  statistics  development 
strategy 
to  provide  a  road  map  for  continually 
improving  and  updating  our  statistical  information 
collection and management methods in the interests of 
improved  decision-making.  That  includes  embarking 
on  a  national  biometric  identification  card  system  to 
record  and  maintain  population  information  on  our 
citizens.
Papua  New  Guinea  recognizes  that  sexual  and 
reproductive health and rights are central to good health 
and  well-being,  especially  those  of  our  women  and 
adolescents, particularly girls, and therefore important 
for  building  our  nation.  We,  the  Member  States,  and 
the United Nations collectively must ensure that every 
woman has access throughout her life to a comprehensive 
and  integrated  package  of  high-quality  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  services,  including  modern  forms 
of contraception and up-to-date sexuality education, in 
order that women’s sexual and reproductive health and 
rights may be fully respected and protected.
Finally, at the Pacific regional level, in accordance 
with  the  declaration  on  human  rights  of  the  Pacific 
leaders, we are making positive progress in strengthening 
political  will  and  efforts  to  achieve  gender  equality, 
empowerment  and  women’s  human  rights,  including 
through affirming sexual and reproductive health and 
rights. We recognize that the denial of women’s sexual 
and reproductive health and rights perpetuates gender 
inequalities,  exacerbates  poverty  and  intensifies  the 
intersecting  forms  of  discrimination  that  women  and 
girls face. We are making measured strides in our region 
to  enable  our  women  to  increasingly  have  autonomy 
on  matters  regarding  their  sexuality  and  reproductive 
health and rights, free from coercion, discrimination or 
violence. Much more work remains to be done, but we 
are  moving  in  the  right  direction.  We  are  committed 
to  working  with  our  development  partners  on  this 
important development issue, provided that it is on our 
own terms.
Ms. Dwyer (Ireland): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for  this  opportunity  to  deliver  the  statement  that  we 
had  planned  to  deliver  at  the  twenty-ninth  special 
session of the General Assembly, held on 22 September. 
Ireland aligns itself with the statement delivered on that 
occasion  by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union  (see 
A/S-29/PV.1).
At  the  outset,  Ireland  wishes  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  the  United 
Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  other  organizations 
involved in providing us with the relevant reports. We 
appreciate  in  particular  the  substantial  scale  and  the 
participatory nature of those exercises and consider that 
they provide a robust evidence base for our discussions, 
particularly in the context of the post-2015 development 
agenda.
Twenty  years  ago,  the  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  established  a 
global consensus that the recognition and fulfilment of 
human rights must be at the centre of any development 
agenda.  As  we  mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  it  is  clear  that  much 
progress  has  been  made.  However,  the  reports  before 
us also highlight the fact that aggregate progress often 
masks  significant  unfinished  business,  particularly 
when it comes to women’s empowerment and in terms 
of access to sexual and reproductive health and rights.
The reports echo the conclusions from other forums 
that  inequalities,  both  between  and  within  countries, 
stubbornly  persist.  Those  who  have  been  left  behind 
by  inequality  and  discrimination,  particularly  women 
and girls, must now be given our absolute priority. The 
reports also highlight the new challenges that we must 
incorporate into our response, including climate change, 
migration, urbanization and the increased percentages 
of younger and older cohorts in our societies.
Ireland remains fully committed to playing our part 
in implementing the ICPD Programme of Action. Last 
year, we launched Ireland’s latest policy for international 
development,  which  recommits  us  to  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  throughout  our  work. 
The  policy  also  contains  an  explicit  commitment  to 
the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action,  through  the  support 
14/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
of  efforts  that  reduce  maternal  and  infant  mortality, 
promote  universal  access  to  reproductive  health  care, 
including antenatal care, and provide family planning 
services  aimed  at  ensuring  safe  motherhood  while 
allowing women to control their fertility.
In  conclusion,  let  me  state  clearly  that  Ireland 
reaffirms our strong support for the ICPD Programme 
of  Action.  Twenty  years  on  from  Cairo,  we  are  at  a 
critical  junction.  As  we  prepare  to  finalize  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  the  principles,  objectives 
and outstanding commitments from the ICPD and the 
Beijing Platform for Action simply must be at the centre 
of the development agenda in the years ahead.
Mr.  Naivalurua  (Fiji):  The  Fiji  delegation  would 
like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this 
meeting and providing members with an opportunity to 
deliberate  on  actions  required  under  the  International 
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD).
At  the  outset,  Fiji  welcomes  the  priority  theme 
this  year.  The  theme  is  most  appropriate,  as  we  now 
build on the important progress made, not only towards 
agreeing on the post-2015 development agenda, but more 
significantly in ensuring its effective implementation.
As we gather here 20 years after the ICPD, we are 
reminded of the global consensus on the integration of 
diverse aspects of population, development and human 
rights.  Fiji’s  commitment  to  that  global  consensus,  as 
well as its subsequent reviews, is evident in our evolving 
policies  and  programmes,  as  a  result  of  which  much 
progress has been recorded in the last two decades.
Although Fiji is faring well with the implementation 
of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  much  remains  to 
be  done.  Fiji  is  a  small  island  developing  State  with 
over  300  islands  and  a  population  that  is  at  once 
highly  concentrated  in  urban  and  peri-urban  areas 
and  dispersed  among  remote  outer-lying  islands.  The 
additional  layer  of  existential  challenges  caused  by 
vulnerabilities  to  climate  change,  frequent  natural 
disasters  and  environmental  degradation  poses  a 
challenge for Fiji in addressing all the core ICPD issues.
The juxtaposition of such stark situations in a small 
island developing State brings with it unique challenges 
for  policy  formulation  and  the  implementation  of 
twenty-first century sustainable development solutions. 
The  availability  and  accessibility  of  sexual  and 
reproductive health services are a major element of the 
solutions, particularly in meeting the special needs of 
the most vulnerable groups. The 2013 Constitution of 
Fiji  encompasses  a  broad  range  of  civil,  political  and 
socioeconomic rights, including the right to health and 
the progressive realization by every person of the right 
to  health-care  services,  including  reproductive  health 
care.
Fiji  also  recognizes  the  importance  of  addressing 
inequalities and the empowerment of women and girls 
in equitable and sustainable development. On the eve of 
International Women’s Day this year, Fiji launched its 
National Gender Policy, which is our guiding document 
for mainstreaming gender issues across all sectors and 
within  all  spheres  of  national  life.  The  Government 
of Fiji is committed to increasing women’s and young 
people’s  participation 
in 
political,  social  and  economic  processes  at  all  levels. 
We believe that that will be all the more important as 
we look ahead to the post-2015 development agenda.
in  decision-making  and 
This  is  an  opportune  time  for  our  delegation  to 
underline  the  importance  of  data  in  development 
planning.  My  delegation  has  noted  in  United  Nations 
reports  and  documentation  that  statistical  data  from 
our  Pacific  Islands  region  are  patchy  or  often  listed 
as  missing.  We  would  like  to  stress  the  importance 
of  securing  timely  and  appropriately  disaggregated 
and  verified  data  in  order  to  design  evidence-based 
programmes  and  development  planning.  Adequate 
resource allocation is urgently needed for that purpose, 
and we urge cooperative action between Governments, 
relevant United Nations agencies and other stakeholders 
to  ensure 
for  effective 
integration  of  disaggregated,  verified  population  data 
on our region.
the  necessary  capacity 
In  conclusion, 
let  me 
reiterate  Fiji’s 
firm 
commitment to the further implementation of the ICPD 
Programme of Action and to addressing priority areas, 
particularly  where  either  the  global  review  has  found 
gaps  in  implementation  or  our  own  national  analyses 
have found greater needs. To ensure a robust approach 
to 
that  mutually 
supportive  partnerships  are  crucial.  We  must  garner 
resource allocation from all available sources and from 
partners that have clearly not reached optimal levels of 
cooperation to date.
implementation,  we 
recognize 
It is imperative that national efforts be dedicated to 
bridging gaps in implementation, advancing the ICPD 
agenda and ensuring that ICPD issues are included in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Governments  and 
14-56244
15/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
the lead United Nations agencies must place them high 
on  their  agendas  if  we  are  to  maintain  a  sustainable 
planet for the generations to come.
cooperation  of  our  development  partners,  particularly 
in  building  the  necessary  infrastructure  and  our 
productive capacities, will be crucial to our success.
Mrs. Namgyel (Bhutan): I would like to thank you, 
Mr. President, for convening the debate on the follow-
up  to  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  beyond 
2014,  and  for  providing  the  opportunity  for  my 
delegation  to  share  our  experiences,  as  well  as  the 
challenges we faced, in implementing the Programme 
of Action.
The  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD)  marked  an  important  shift  in 
our approach by placing the individual at the centre of 
population  and  development  policies.  It  also  focused 
our  attention  on  relevant  issues,  including  economic 
growth  and  sustainable  development,  empowerment 
of  women,  urbanization,  education  and  technology. 
In  addition,  as  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
reports (A/69/62 and A/69/122), significant gains have 
been  made  in  population,  health,  life  expectancy  and 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  and  an  estimated  one 
billion people have been moved out of extreme poverty. 
However, much still remains to be done.
In  my  own  region,  the  detailed  analysis  by  the 
United Nations reveals that significant challenges still 
remain  in  the  implementation  of  ICPD.  And,  while  it 
is  reassuring  that  the  Programme  of  Action  has  been 
extended beyond 2014 and that that review process will 
inform  and  shape  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
many of the challenges require urgent attention if the 
progress and achievements since the Cairo summit are 
to be sustained.
The  Secretary-General  has  aptly  underscored  the 
challenges of inequity and sustainability in his report, 
as follows:
“Our  greatest  shared  challenge  is  that  our 
very  accomplishments,  reflected  in  ever-greater 
human  consumption  and  extraction  of  the  Earth’s 
resources, are increasingly inequitably distributed, 
threatening inclusive development, the environment 
and our common future.” (A/69/62, p. 2)
In  that  context,  my  Government  is  committed 
to  ensuring  that  development  is  both  inclusive  and 
to 
sustainable.  Bhutan 
is  committed 
remaining 
carbon-neutral  even  as  we  strive 
to  overcome 
multidimensional poverty and meet the special needs of 
the most vulnerable groups. The continued support and 
Bhutan is experiencing rapid demographic change. 
With about 65 per cent of its population in the 25-and-
under  age  group,  the  potential  for  a  demographic 
dividend is at its peak. Access to quality education and 
vocational training that are responsive to the demands 
of  our  social  and  economic  development  process  is 
therefore  a  key  priority.  The  Government  has  been 
increasingly  engaging  the  private  sector  to  create 
the  necessary  jobs.  Skills  development,  promotion  of 
foreign  direct  investment  and  development  of  small 
and medium enterprises are part of our endeavours to 
enhance employment opportunities for the youth.
Rapid  urbanization  due  to  rural-urban  migration 
has proved to be an increasingly complex challenge for 
Bhutan. With 60 per cent of our population still in rural 
areas, the pace of urbanization will inevitably intensify 
in  the  near  future  and  outpace  our  current  capacity 
to  provide  the  necessary  basic  infrastructure  and 
public services to urban residents. Ensuring access to 
land,  housing,  water,  sanitary  and  waste  management 
services and livelihood, particularly for the urban poor, 
are new dimensions to the development challenges that 
we face.
Gender  equality,  equity  and  the  empowerment  of 
women  must  continue  to  receive  the  highest  priority 
if  we  are  to  realize  the  full  potential  of  the  ICPD.  In 
that  regard,  Bhutan  continues  to  promote  women’s 
rights  and  facilitate  their  full  participation  in  the 
socioeconomic  development  and  the  political  and 
decision-making  processes.  The  current  five-year 
plan  —  the  eleventh  —  has  placed  high  priority  on 
gender-based  monitoring  and  data  generation,  as  well 
as  interventions  to  promote  gender  equality  in  local 
governance. It will address visible gender gaps in the 
areas of education, employment, political representation 
and violence against women.
We also note and welcome the strong role that can 
be played by civil society in realizing the ICPD agenda, 
and  we  have  taken  concrete  measures  to  encourage 
its  participation.  While  we  had  just  few  civil  society 
organizations  in  1994,  Bhutan  now  has  38  registered, 
consisting  of  29  public  benefit  organizations  and 
9 mutual benefit organizations. I take this opportunity 
to  acknowledge  the  support  of  all  our  development 
partners  and  the  efforts  of  United  Nations  Population 
the  Commission  on  Population  and 
Fund  and 
16/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
Development towards the achievement of the goals and 
objectives of the Programme of Action.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that Bhutan 
remains  resolute  in  its  commitment  to  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  and  to  further  incorporating 
all  its  aspects  into  our  national  planning  process. 
We  hope  that  our  renewed  political  commitment  to 
that Programme of Action will be backed by a strong 
commitment from our development partners to provide 
the financial and technical assistance that are necessary 
for the full achievement of its goals and objectives. My 
delegation looks forward to working to ensure that the 
ICPD Programme of Action remains a high priority in 
the post-2015 development agenda.
towards 
the 
Mr.  McLay 
implementing 
(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
welcomed  the  twenty-ninth  special  session  to  review 
progress 
International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
agenda. We particularly thank you, Mr. President, for 
providing this occasion to ensure that those who lacked 
the opportunity to speak on the issue during the special 
session have the chance to air their views in the General 
Assembly.
The 
ICPD 
review  acknowledges 
significant 
progress since 1994, but there is still much more to be 
done if the vision of the ICPD Programme of Action is 
to  be  realized,  particularly  for  women,  young  people 
and marginalized groups. The ICPD commitments are 
the  crucial  foundation  for  a  universally  recognized, 
relevant and sustainable development agenda.
Globally,  women  remain  subject  to  violence  and 
harmful practices that negatively affect their health and 
their human rights. In New Zealand and in our Pacific 
neighbourhood  we  face  high  rates  of  violence  against 
women and must ensure that all survivors of violence 
have  immediate  and  safe  access  to  critical  services. 
We  must  also  focus  even  more  on  reducing  violence 
by  involving  men  and  boys  in  violence-prevention 
initiatives.
Worldwide,  220  million  women  still  have  unmet 
contraception needs. All women should be entitled to 
accurate  information  and  counselling  on  a  range  of 
affordable,  accessible  and  high-quality  contraceptive 
methods. 
In  New  Zealand,  new  contraceptive 
technologies  have  resulted  in  significantly  improved 
access. In 2010, for example, our Government increased 
access to long-acting reversible contraception by fully 
subsidizing contraceptive implants.
Despite progress, a key challenge still facing New 
Zealand  is  the  persistence  of  ethnic  disparities,  with 
Máori  and  Pacific  populations  disproportionately 
affected  by  negative  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
outcomes.  We  must  ensure  that  indigenous  people 
receive  appropriate  services,  and,  importantly,  we 
must  address  the  social  and  economic  factors  that 
disadvantage indigenous people.
New  Zealand  is  also  focused  on  assisting  the 
Pacific  region  to  make  progress  under  the  ICPD.  I 
therefore  listened  with  great  interest  and  support  to 
the  statements  made  a  short  time  ago  by  Papua  New 
Guinea  and  Fiji.  That  assistance  includes  supporting 
key multilateral organizations that work in the region, 
such  as  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the 
International  Planned  Parenthood  Federation  and  the 
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
We  endorse  the  findings  of  the  ICPD  Beyond 
2014  review,  and  we  believe  the  actions  it  identifies 
are  vital  to  achieving  inclusive,  non-discriminatory 
and  equitable  access 
to  services,  education  and 
information. For those reasons, New Zealand remains 
firmly  committed  to  working  with  Member  States  to 
ensure that the post-2015 agenda and the ICPD Beyond 
2014 processes promote inclusive development. Above 
all, we will work to ensure that no one is left behind.
Ms.  Stone  (Australia):  The  issues  covered  by  the 
follow-up to the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) are 
central  to  global  efforts  to  achieve  a  peaceful,  stable 
and prosperous world and are at the core of our human 
experience. While there has been some good progress 
in  implementing  the  Programme  of  Action,  it  is  an 
outrage that on the twentieth anniversary of the ICPD 
we  are  still  struggling  to  ensure  fundamental  human 
rights for women and girls, to protect women and girls 
from discrimination and violence in all their forms, and 
to prevent early marriage and early pregnancy. Not only 
must  we  ensure  those  rights  and  protections,  but  we 
must  address  the  reality  that  women  and  children  are 
also bearing the brunt of increasingly violent conflict 
and protracted humanitarian crises around the world.
Women  and  children  are  receiving  barbaric 
treatment at the hands of the Islamic State in Iraq and 
the  Levant  (ISIL),  which  is  systematically  targeting 
women  and  children  with  rape  and  other  forms  of 
sexual and physical violence. Unmarried Iraqi girls and 
women  have  been  forcibly  transported  to  Syria  either 
14-56244
17/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
to be given to ISIL fighters or sold as sex slaves, and 
there are reports that an office for the sale of abducted 
women has opened in Mosul city.
It  is  178  days  since  273  girls  were  kidnapped  by 
Boko Haram in Nigeria. And we are seeing increasing 
rates  of  early  and  forced  marriage  as  a  response  to 
displacement  and  insecurity,  with  reports  that  rates 
of  child  marriage  have  increased  alarmingly  in  some 
Syrian  refugee  populations.  We  cannot  collectively 
tolerate those actions, which are not only terrible acts, 
but also fundamentally undermine basic global norms 
and the rights of women and girls, which continue to be 
challenged  and  questioned  in  far  too  many  situations 
around the world. That is not tolerable in the twenty-
first century.
Given those alarming trends, the ICPD Programme 
of Action is as important today as it was 20 years ago. 
We must work together to advance the rights of women 
and girls, and not allow those rights to be eroded. That 
will take commitment and action.
Australia  commits  to  protecting  and  promoting 
the rights of women and girls in all settings, including 
humanitarian  and  conflict  situations.  Women  and 
children  make  up  the  vast  majority  of  internally 
displaced  and  refugee  populations.  The  loss  of  their 
homes,  communities  and  social  safety  nets  renders 
those women and children extraordinarily vulnerable. 
We  will  not  let  conflict  or  disasters  become  an 
excuse to weaken our resolve to empower and protect 
those  women  and  children.  In  that  spirit,  Australia  is 
providing  a  further  $2  million  to  the  United  Nations 
Population Fund to continue its work to protect women 
and girls in Iraq. We must not forget that women and 
children in perilous circumstances still have rights, and 
that those rights need to be protected.
Australia  confirms 
its  commitment 
on 
to 
Population 
the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  Programme  of  Action,  to  the  Beijing 
Platform for Action and their subsequent reviews. And 
Australia is committed to ensure that gender equality 
and  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights  are 
firmly embedded in the post-2015 development agenda.
At  the  Asian  and  Pacific  Population  Conference 
in  Bangkok,  held  in  September  last  year,  Australia 
and the majority of countries in our region supported 
a forward-looking declaration that upholds sexual and 
reproductive rights for all. That demonstrates that as a 
region we can continue to further the ICDP agenda, and 
we can be even more ambitious in our aspirations under 
the Programme of Action.
Australia’s  commitment  to  women’s  economic 
empowerment and leadership and to protecting women 
from  violence  is  a  priority  for  us  in  Australia  and 
internationally,  through  our  diplomacy  and  our  aid. 
Australia has set a benchmark for its aid programme, 
making the commitment that at least 80 per cent of all 
development  activities  must  have  a  gender-equality 
focus. We are also prioritizing maternal and child health 
and  family  planning  in  our  aid  programme.  Australia 
has  a  dedicated  ambassador  for  women  and  girls, 
Natasha  Stott  Despoja,  who  engages  internationally 
to shift attitudes about the role, value and contribution 
of  women  and  girls.  We  urge  others  to  appoint  such 
ambassadors.  That  could  form  a  powerful  global 
network  working  for  the  rights  of  women  and  girls, 
including indigenous women and girls, everywhere.
While  we  face  serious  challenges,  we  can  deliver 
on the promise of the ICPD Programme of Action if we 
continue to shine a light on these important issues and 
work together to deliver on our commitments.
Mr. Ferreira (Cabo Verde): At the outset, I would 
like  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your 
election, and to express the pleasure of the Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Cabo  Verde  in  taking  the  floor  in 
this  follow-up  to  the  Assembly’s  twenty-ninth  special 
session.
We would like to take this opportunity to welcome 
the Secretary-General’s report entitled “Framework of 
actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development beyond 2014” (A/69/62). The Government 
of  Cabo  Verde  shares  the  report’s  conclusion  that 
increasing  individual  human  rights,  capabilities  and 
dignity across the multiple sectors of the International 
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) is 
the foundation of sustainable development.
Cabo  Verde  has  been  putting  human  beings  at 
the  centre  of  its  endeavours  to  implement  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
poverty  reduction,  access  to  sexual  and  reproductive 
health  services,  access  to  education,  the  reduction  of 
maternal and child mortality, family planning and the 
protection  of  reproductive  rights.  Combating  violence 
against women and women’s empowerment have been 
among  the  highest  priorities  for  our  Government.  In 
its annual report, just released, UNICEF indicates that 
18/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
Cabo Verde is about to achieve Goal 4 of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  on  child  and  maternal 
mortality. I can inform the Assembly that Cabo Verde 
is in fact on the brink of meeting most of the MDGs.
The education of a young population and job creation 
continue to pose great challenges for the Government 
of Cabo Verde. However, as a consequence of our sound 
policies in that area, our reduced fertility rates and the 
ageing  of  the  population  have  created  new  challenges 
in  issues  related  to  the  phenomenon  of  immigration, 
which is already beginning to put pressure on our social 
and economic structures. The expertise and support of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  in  that 
area is of the utmost important to my country. 
to 
further 
implementing the ICPD Programme of Action. We are 
aware of and committed to the outcome of our regional 
review  and  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the 
ICPD Beyond 2014.
fully  committed 
Cabo  Verde 
is 
I will conclude by stressing that my country would 
like to count on the continued and strong support of the 
UNFPA in order to implement the 15 recommendations 
in the report on its review of Cabo Verde.
Mr.  Hassan  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, Mr. President, I am very pleased to be able to 
congratulate you on your assumption of the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session and 
wish you every success. I would also like to thank you for 
convening this special and important meeting to follow 
up  on  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
beyond 2014. My delegation also thanks the Secretary-
General for his report on the topic entitled “Framework 
of actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  beyond  2014”  (A/69/62).  We  also  thank 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  regional 
commissions for facilitating the operational review in 
our States and regions.
Today we would like to stress that one of the most 
important challenges we are now facing is the eradication 
of poverty and our efforts to to do that. Those efforts 
require  coordination  and  cooperation  at  every  level 
in  dealing  with  the  underlying  causes  of  poverty  and 
with  the  phenomenon  of  climate  change,  with  which 
poverty eradication is now intertwined. Food security 
and unemployment are the most prominent issues to be 
dealt with. 
the 
We  emphasize 
importance  of  enhancing 
international cooperation and partnership everywhere, 
as well as coordinating activities aimed at formulating 
environmental  policies 
to  achieve  equitable  and 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  to  mobilize  the 
necessary  financial  resources.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
study the relevant challenges, taking into consideration 
countries’ varied levels of development and striving for 
a smooth transition to a post-2015 development agenda. 
In that regard, we would like to recall the 1994 ICPD, 
at which we adopted a Programme of Action based on 
human  rights  and  the  principles  of  sustainability.  It 
aimed at enabling populations to exercise their right to 
participate  in  development  through  enhancing  health-
care  services,  better  education  and  good  governance, 
without discrimination on the basis of race, colour or 
religion.
The  Sudan  is  now  going  through  a  phase  of 
demographic  transition,  since  according  to  the  most 
recent census, taken in 2008, our population has now 
reached 30 million and is expected to double by the year 
2035. That demographic reality requires us to establish 
national strategies to improve our demographic records,  
quality of life and well-being. 
The  secession  of  South  Sudan  in  2011  created  a 
new economic, demographic and political reality in the 
Sudan, which requires that we come up with the support 
needed to update our demographic data through a new 
census and by conducting the comprehensive national 
surveys  and  intensive  studies  required  for  sound 
planning for development.
We  have  seen  enormous  changes  in  the  issue  of 
immigration, owing to the continuing flow of migrants 
both  internally  and  externally.  Because  it  borders  on 
seven  other  States,  the  Sudan  is  considered  a  transit 
State, which makes the problem of human trafficking, 
especially of women and children, a major challenge. It 
requires concerted effort both nationally and regionally 
through cooperation among South-South countries, and 
internationally through partnership among departments 
managing  migration.  We  must  change  the  challenges 
into opportunities for development among the countries 
involved. 
fulfilled 
its  obligations 
The  Sudan  has 
in 
establishing peace, security, stability and development. 
However, we have continued to face genuine challenges 
owing to economic sanctions and the burden of foreign 
debt, which have adversely affected all aspects of our 
development and basic services.
14-56244
19/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
In  spite  of  all  the  restrictions  facing  the  Sudan, 
it  has  achieved  notable  progress  in  implementing  the 
ICPD Programme of Action, especially with regard to 
the  empowerment  of  women  and  gender  equality.  My 
Government has adopted numerous policies that serve 
as  incentives  to  increase  the  political  participation 
of  women,  especially  in  leadership  roles  and  at  the 
decision-making  level.  The  Government  of  the  Sudan 
has  continued  to  spare  no  effort  to  reduce  the  threat 
of  poverty 
through  social  security  programmes, 
microfinance  services  and  social  protection  networks 
aimed  at  supporting  poor  families,  upgrading  the 
standard  of  living  and  generating  employment  for 
young  men.  With  regard  to  the  reduction  of  maternal 
mortality,  the  Government  has  continued  to  improve 
the health of mothers and children through vaccination. 
The  Government  is  sparing  no  effort  to  fight  AIDS, 
malaria and chronic diseases, and it is also seeking to 
mainstream health insurance programmes and to offer 
free treatment for children under 5 years of age.
My delegation calls on the United Nations and its 
specialized  agencies  to  provide  assistance,  especially 
in conflict-affected States. The Sudan has participated 
in  the  review  preparations  and  in  all  the  reviews 
conducted at the regional level in the Arab and African 
contexts  by  virtue  of  its  commitment  to  the  ICPD 
Programme of Action after 2014 and to the post-2015 
development agenda. We endorse the outcomes of the 
global  and  regional  reviews  regarding  the  fact  that 
such  programmes  have  not  been  completed  and  urge 
that  they  be  completed  through  concerted  efforts  and 
the  building  of  partnerships  on  all  levels,  especially 
since today the prospects for development are far better 
than  they  were  in  1994.  We  are  in  desperate  need  of 
investment in programmes for youth and for the creation 
of further opportunities for young people to participate 
in  building  peace  and  promoting  development  for  a 
better future.
The 
report 
Secretary-General’s 
(A/69/122) 
stresses  the  importance  of  accountability  and  sound 
governance to guarantee the post-2014 implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action.  It  emphasizes  the  need 
to  consolidate  effective  partnerships  and  cooperative 
relations  that  support  national  development  strategies 
and  include  population  dynamics.  We  should  like  to 
underscore the central role of the United Nations system 
in  supporting  and  enhancing  the  efforts  of  States  to 
implement the ICPD Programme of Action after 2014 
and the post-2015 development agenda.
In conclusion, my delegation notes that the Sudan 
is now on the threshold of a critical new political phase 
thanks  to  the  initiative  launched  by  President  Omer 
Hassan  A.  Al-Bashir  on  27  January,  which  involves 
holding  a  comprehensive  national  dialogue  to  ensure 
that  all  political  forces  in  the  country  participate  in 
decision-making. The current dialogue is not about who 
governs the Sudan, but how to govern it in such a way as 
to achieve our desired development objectives and the 
necessary stability to be able to continue implementing 
the Millennium Development Goals and the goals of the 
post-2015 development agenda.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): The delegation of 
Brazil takes this opportunity to welcome and express our 
deep appreciation for the supporting documentation by 
the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General’s reports 
(A/69/62  and  A/69/122)  reveal  that  Member  States 
have made considerable progress in implementing the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD).  We  have 
significantly  reduced  poverty  and  improved  access  to 
and the quality of health and education services. Since 
the  Cairo  Conference,  reproductive  rights  have  been 
realized all over the world. And the outcome documents 
of  the  regional  conferences  have  recognized  that, 
from  the  perspective  of  population  and  development, 
evidence-based  comprehensive  sexuality  education  is 
one of the paths to progress.
In  celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Cairo agenda, Brazil reiterates its full commitment and 
unwavering  support  to  the  United  Nations  initiatives 
aimed  at  promoting  the  goals  of  that  Programme 
and  confirms  its  subsequent  commitments.  Brazil 
has  subscribed  to  the  Montevideo  Consensus  on 
Population  and  Development,  adopted  by  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  region  in  2013,  which  not 
only  recognizes  the  importance  of  universal  access 
to health and reproductive rights and gender equality, 
but also advances progressive commitments on sexual 
orientation  and  gender 
identity.  The  Montevideo 
Consensus took the lead in supporting comprehensive 
sexuality education and recognizing the right to safe and 
legal abortions, to access to emergency contraception 
and to recognition of unpaid work.
With  a  view  to  assessing  the  results  of  and 
improving the policies implemented in this area within 
the  framework  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  in 
2012  Brazil  reactivated  its  National  Commission  on 
Population and Development. The Commission is made 
20/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
up  of  representatives  of  ministries  and  civil  society 
organizations,  who  contribute  to  the  elaboration  of 
integrated  policies  in  such  areas  as  the  treatment  of 
HIV/AIDS  and  sexual  and  reproductive  health.  Our 
public policies with respect to sexual and reproductive 
rights  are  in  line  with  the  principles  of  the  Cairo 
Programmeof  Action.  In  keeping  with  the  concept 
of  comprehensive  care  for  women,  Brazil  is  seeking 
to  guarantee  the  right  to  free  exercise  of  sexuality, 
reproductive  planning  and  humanized  prenatal, 
delivery and postpartum care, with a marked reduction 
in maternal mortality.
Brazil  has  covered  a  great  deal  of  ground  since 
the Cairo Conference. The percentage of the Brazilian 
population  below  the  extreme  poverty  line  is  today 
just  one  third  of  what  it  was  when  the  ICPD  took 
place. The per capita income of Brazil’s poorest 10 per 
cent  increased  almost  four  times  faster  than  that  of 
the  richest  10  per  cent,  and  that  translated  into  an 
unprecedented decline in inequality within the country. 
Labour  conditions  have  improved  very  substantially, 
and  average  unemployment  on  a  yearly  basis  now 
hovers around the 5 per cent mark, one of the world’s 
lowest  —  and  this  notwithstanding  the  economic  and 
financial crisis of 2008, from which major economies 
are  still  recovering.  Average  labour  income  is  now 
60  per  cent  higher  than  it  was  20  years  ago.  Life 
expectancy  is  almost  10  years  longer,  and  the  infant 
mortality rate is only one quarter of that in 1994. Today, 
under 1 per cent of Brazilian municipalities have a very 
low human development index, as against 85 per cent 
in the early 1990s.
Brazil has also made progress in adopting a legal 
framework  that  addresses  the  vulnerable  segments  of 
its society. In 2011, by a decision of the Supreme Court 
of Justice, Brazil recognized and ensured equal rights 
for same-sex unions.
Many  challenges  lie  ahead.  Levels  of  maternal 
mortality and unwanted adolescent pregnancy need to 
decline  more  rapidly.  Rates  for  youth  unemployment 
and  dropping  out  of  school  early  need  to  be  further 
reduced.  The  country  has  persistent  gender  gaps  and 
asymmetries  domestically,  socially  and  in  the  labour 
market,  in  both  the  public  and  the  private  sectors, 
as  well  as  large  and  enduring  racial  differentials  in 
opportunities and outcomes. That is where Government 
programmes such as the national programme for access 
to technical education and employment, Bolsa Família 
and many others have been brought into play in order 
to reverse the historical negative trend resulting from 
years  of  insufficient  attention  to  marginalized  and 
vulnerable groups, the needy and the less fortunate.
The  world  is  still  plagued  with  unacceptable 
levels  of  inequality,  aggravated  by  many  forms  of 
discrimination.  Progress  in  realizing  fundamental 
human  rights  -  such  as  sexual  rights,  comprehensive 
sexuality  education,  the  right  not  to  be  discriminated 
against  on  the  grounds  of  colour,  gender,  age,  civil 
status,  gender  identity  and  sexual  orientation,  respect 
for  diversity  and  the  full  protection  of  the  rights  of 
all  migrants -  has  been  slow  and  fragmented.  We  are 
hopeful that a global consensus of the United Nations 
on  a  new  vision  for  sustainable  development  based 
on  the  Rio+20  outcome  document,  “The  future  we 
want”,  will  bring  the  international  community  closer 
to  cooperating  effectively  to  overcome  those  critical 
hurdles.
The 17 goals and 169 targets adopted by the Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
provide an integrated platform for this new vision. They 
are a groundbreaking outcome that we wish to preserve 
as  the  main  basis  for  integrating  the  sustainable 
development  goals  into  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, to be adopted a year from now.
We value the social and human rights dimensions of 
this new set of goals and targets, ranging from poverty 
eradication  and  combating  inequality  to  universal 
access to sexual and reproductive health-care services 
under a framework of economic growth, inclusiveness 
and  sustainability.  It  is  an  agenda  that  seeks  to  be 
universal  in  nature  while  recognizing  the  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  of  developed  and 
developing countries.
We  now  need  to  concentrate  on  ensuring  that  the 
means  of  implementation  are  clearly  identified  and 
that  they  measure  up  to  our  high  ambitions  in  terms 
of  official  development  assistance  commitments, 
policy space for developing countries, and national and 
international mobilization of resources and technology. 
We  will  have  to  focus  on  adequate  and  effective 
indicators, with assistance from the United Nations, the 
competent  national  entities  of  Member  States  and  the 
relevant civil society groups.
Realizing  rights  entails  promoting  equality  and 
equity  within  and  among  countries,  securing  respect 
for  diversity,  and 
improving  education,  working 
conditions and opportunities for all. Development also 
14-56244
21/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
requires worldwide synergy and global leadership from 
the United Nations. This is where we need to reaffirm 
unambiguously  that  the  right  to  development  is  a 
fundamental, universal and inalienable human right.
If we are serious about population and development, 
and  I  believe  we  are,  the  foregoing  are  our  main 
endeavours.  In  that  spirit,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm 
Brazil’s  full  commitment  to  the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action, to the key actions for its further implementation 
and  to  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General.
Mr. Ruiz (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): Colombia 
thanks you, Mr. President, for allowing us to show our 
commitment to the population and development agenda 
and its extension beyond 2014. 
In  1994,  we  decided  to  implement  the  Cairo 
Programme of Action to guarantee to all persons a life 
lived  without  discrimination,  in  equitable  conditions 
and free from poverty, and with full respect ensured for 
all rights, including sexual and reproductive rights. Our 
goal was the full implementation of the Programme of 
Action  by  2014,  and  today  we  can  count  innumerable 
prime examples of progress for all our populations. In 
the case of Colombia, that agenda was fundamental for 
guiding public policies on the subject.
Colombia  has  made  significant  progress 
in 
combating  poverty.  More  than  2.5  million  people 
have  emerged  from  poverty  in  the  past  four  years. 
That  figure  does  not  correlate  with  income  alone  but 
reflects a multidimensional perspective that takes into 
account such variables as education, health and work. 
The multidimensional vision of poverty has allowed us 
to  measure  the  true  extent  of  the  transformation  in  a 
person’s quality of life and its sustainability over time. 
Furthermore, my country has a comprehensive human 
rights  policy,  which  has  a  differential  approach  and 
covers children, youth and women, together with lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, as well 
as  indigenous  peoples,  Afro-Colombians,  people  with 
disabilities and older persons.
Among  our  achievements,  I  must  point  out  today 
the  progress  made  in  reducing  maternal  and  child 
mortality. In addition, I am pleased to note that we have 
made  significant  headway  in  preventing  adolescent 
pregnancies.
discrimination of any kind, as universal human rights. 
For  that  reason,  in  the  framework  of  the  sustainable 
development  goals,  we  have  advocated  the  inclusion 
of  a  goal  along  those  lines.  Synergy  between  the 
population and development agenda and the sustainable 
development goals is undeniable because they address 
multidimensional development and are people-centred.
At  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  will 
be  called  on  to  discuss  the  sustainable  development 
goals. We cannot lose sight of the fact that those goals 
have  the  potential  of  transforming  our  States  and  the 
lives of the individuals and peoples in them. They are, 
undoubtedly,  a  set  of  tools  with  which  to  accomplish 
the goals set in Cairo in 1994.
Mr. Kydyrov (Kyrgyzstan): At the outset I would 
like to thank you, Mr. President, for organizing today’s 
debate, which I hope will be fruitful.
(ICPD),  adopted 
Although  the  world  has  changed  significantly 
in  the  last  two  decades,  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development 
remains 
relevant.  Furthermore,  the  strong  interdependence  of 
the  issues  of  development,  environment  and  human 
well-being  outlined  in  the  ICPD  Programme  provides 
the  solid  foundation  for  sustainable  development  and 
the post-2015 development agenda.
in  1994, 
I would like to inform the General Assembly that, 
despite  the  complex  political  processes  and  economic 
difficulties  in  Kyrgyzstan,  we  have  achieved  good 
progress  in  our  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action. The new Constitution of the Kyrgyz Republic, 
adopted  after 
the  revolution  of  2010,  proclaims 
Kyrgyzstan  as  a  socially  oriented  State.  It  should  be 
noted  that  the  European  Commission  for  Democracy 
through  Law,  known  as  the  “Venice  Commission”, 
commended 
that 
addresses human rights and freedoms.
the  Constitution 
the  section  of 
To date, my country has ratified seven of the nine 
major  United  Nations  international  conventions  on 
human rights. Furthermore, Kyrgyzstan has subscribed 
to more than 40 international obligations and standards 
in  the  area  of  human  rights,  within  the  framework  of 
the legal instruments of the United Nations, the main 
conventions  of  the  International  Labour  Organization 
and the Helsinki Final Act.
The  population  and  development  agenda  has 
allowed  us  to  undertake  concrete  action  to  guarantee 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  for  everyone,  without 
Most  of  the  international  standards  on  human 
rights  and  basic  freedoms  have  been  incorporated 
into  our  national  legislation.  Kyrgyzstan  has  adopted 
22/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
25 regulatory legal instruments to protect the legitimate 
rights  and  interests  of  children.  Laws  guaranteeing 
equal  rights  and  equal  opportunities  for  men  and 
women,  together  with  social  and  legal  protection 
from  domestic  violence,  are  the  underpinnings  of 
an  equitable  gender  policy.  To  effectively  regulate 
migration  and  demographic  trends,  we  have  adopted 
laws  on  such  subjects  as  external  migration,  internal 
migration,  international  labour  migration,  refugees 
and  preventing  and  combating  trafficking  in  human 
beings,  as  well  as  many  other  legal  instruments  on 
social  and  health  protection  issues.  Kyrgyzstan  also 
attaches great importance to improving health care and 
fighting  HIV/AIDS  and  preventing  its  impact  on  our 
socioeconomic development. It is necessary to note that 
child mortality has been substantially reduced in recent 
years, and we have achieved some progress in the area 
of reproductive health.
Kyrgyzstan has also succeeded in implementing the 
Programme of Action with regard to the empowerment 
of  women  and  the  improvement  of  their  political  and 
social status. The representation of women and youth at 
decision-making levels has significantly increased. In 
recent years, our women have held leadership positions, 
including  as  President,  Chairperson  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  ministers  and  heads  of  other  governmental 
institutions.  Today,  nearly  a  third  of  our  Parliament 
members are women.
The new challenges in economic development have 
led  to  a  growth  in  unemployment,  which  is  a  major 
factor in internal and external migration, especially on 
the  part  of  the  young  population.  The  analysis  of  the 
country’s demographic and labour situation shows that 
the trend of growing labour migration from Kyrgyzstan 
to  foreign  countries  will  continue,  at  least  for  the 
next  five  years.  Although  that  tendency  will  lead  to 
a  reduction  in  the  unemployment  level,  it  will  have 
a  negative  influence  on  demographic  trends,  labour 
power and the institution of the family.
the  progress  achieved, 
is  still 
much  to  be  done.  Further  empowerment  of  women, 
especially in rural areas, child protection, employment 
opportunities  for  young  people  and  the  improvement 
of social protection for the elderly and disabled, have 
become key objectives for the future we want. In order 
to  reach  those  objectives,  we  have  adopted  a  national 
sustainable development strategy for 2014-2017, which 
focuses on improvements in the effectiveness of health 
care and education, the protection of human rights and 
Despite 
there 
freedoms,  the  role  of  the  family,  gender  equality  and 
social protection.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  Kyrgyzstan 
is  strongly  committed  to  strengthening  international 
cooperation and effective partnership with the United 
Nations  Population  Fund  and  other  United  Nations 
agencies.  That  is  the  only  real  way  to  facilitate  a 
full  implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  It 
is  with  great  pleasure  that  I  take  the  floor  at  this 
meeting  dedicated  to  reviewing  the  Programme  of 
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and  Development  (ICPD)  beyond  2014.  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  Executive  Director  of  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  for  the 
attention  he  has  given  to  the  issue  through  the  many 
events  held,  the  reports  published  and  the  support 
provided  to  developing  countries  aimed  at  enabling 
them  to  benefit  from  the  experience  that  has  been 
gained in terms of population and development policies.
Since  the  adoption  of  the  1994  Cairo  Programme 
of Action, significant progress has been made and has 
been reviewed in 1999, 2004 and 2009 and, finally, at 
the comprehensive review of the ICPD Programme of 
Action held in April 2014 at the forty-seventh session 
of  the  Commission  on  Population  and  Development. 
My  country,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  welcomes  the 
many  consultations  and  surveys  carried  out  with  the 
support of UNFPA, which have enabled us to assess the 
progress made and identify the challenges that continue 
to  affect  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  set  out  by 
the  Cairo  Conference.  Similarly,  audits  performed  in 
2013  during  the  regional  conferences,  in  cooperation 
with the United Nations regional commissions, allowed 
for an open and inclusive regional consultation on the 
subject of monitoring the Programme of Action beyond 
2014 and the post-2015 development agenda.
Morocco has made   progress in many areas, including 
universal  access  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
services.  The  rate  of  contraceptive  use  has  increased 
significantly,  and  infant  and  maternal  mortality  have 
declined  significantly  over  the  past  20  years,  from 
76.1 infant deaths per 1,000 in 1991 to 30.5 per 1,000 
in 2011, and from 332 maternal deaths per 100,000 live 
births  in  1992  to  112  deaths  in  2010.  The  number  of 
prenatal  consultations  and  the  proportion  of  assisted 
14-56244
23/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
births  also  increased  significantly,  reaching  77.1  per 
cent and 73.6 per cent, respectively, in 2011.
Moreover,  in  addition  to  its  reproductive  health 
strategy  and  national  family  planning  programme, 
Morocco  has  implemented  a  health  strategy  aimed 
at  meeting  the  specific  needs  of  young  people  and 
adolescents,  particularly  in  terms  of  information, 
education  and  clinical  services  for  the  prevention  of 
unwanted  pregnancies,  on  the  risks  related  to  unsafe 
abortions  and  on  the  prevention  and  treatment  of 
sexually 
transmissible  diseases  and  gender-based 
violence.
In  terms  of  strengthening  democracy,  Morocco 
has  undertaken  bold  reforms  at  both  the  institutional 
and  the  legislative  levels.  They  include  the  revision 
of  the  Constitution;  the  reform  of  the  penal,  election, 
family, nationality and labour codes; and the adoption 
of advanced regionalization measures. Alongside those 
reforms,  the  Kingdom  has  established  institutions 
tasked  with  enforcing  the  rules  of  good  governance, 
protecting  rights  and  freedoms  and  strengthening 
participatory democracy.
That decisive progress towards realizing the vision 
of  a  society  that  ensures  the  effectiveness  of  rights 
and  freedoms  is  enhanced  by  the  Kingdom’s  efforts 
to  harmonize  national  law  and  align  its  policies  with 
internationally ratified conventions. We have also lifted 
our reservations to the Convention on the Elimination 
of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women  and 
adopted the Optional Protocol thereto, which is in line 
with that progress.
The  results  achieved  in  the  20  years  since  the 
Cairo Conference are encouraging but remain uneven 
across  regions  and  countries  and  within  countries. 
Those difficulties are compounded by new challenges 
in  a  constantly  changing  environment  characterized 
by rapid globalization and changes in types of family 
organization, the emerging needs of youth, the ageing 
of  the  population,  rapid  urbanization  in  developing 
countries and growing disparities.
In  addition, 
the  mobilization  of 
resources 
continues to be a concern. Of course, internal resource 
mobilization  should  be  encouraged  and  diversified, 
but  without  an  effective  contribution  by  the  donor 
community, it will be difficult to achieve the objectives 
of the Cairo Programme of Action, which remain valid 
beyond  2014,  as  stressed  in  resolution  65/234,  which 
was adopted in 2010.
The delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco firmly 
supports  the  ICPD  review  process,  which  reaffirms 
the  validity  of  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Programme  of 
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and  Development  for  the  period  beyond  2014  and 
supports  their  inclusion  in  the  post-2015  development 
programme.
Mr.  Bristol  (Nigeria):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  commend  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your  excellent 
leadership  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session 
and,  more  importantly,  for  providing  us  with  the 
opportunity to share our perspectives on the important 
issues  arising  from  the  International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  beyond  2014  for 
human development and improvement.
As  this  debate  is  coming  on  the  heels  of  the 
twenty-ninth special session of the General Assembly, 
on  the  follow-up  to  the  Programme  of  Action  of 
the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD) beyond 2014, which was held last 
month, Nigeria believes that a window of opportunity 
has  once  again  been  provided  for  Member  States 
to  exchange  ideas  on  the  best  practices  needed  to 
transform the lives of the poor and the vulnerable. We 
are  of  the  view  that  the  global  community  must  take 
advantage  of  the  opportunity  to  shape  the  two  key 
global  development  agendas:  the  ICPD  Programme 
beyond 2014, and the post-2015 development agenda. Of 
particular importance is the need to engage an effective 
framework for reviewing existing population trends and 
related  policies  to  capture  all  emerging  development 
issues within the context of the two agendas.
Nigeria also reiterates that concerted efforts must 
be devoted to the assessment of the quantity and quality 
of investments made to improve the lives of the various 
components of the population, especially young people, 
women and girls, as well as the condition of the aged. 
In  that  regard,  we  affirm  our  commitment  to  the  full 
implementation  of  the  ICPD+20  agenda.  We  would, 
however, like to highlight that the agenda must include 
the following priority areas.
Quality  investments  in  young  people’s  education, 
health  care,  employment  and  inclusion  are  necessary 
ingredients  for  reaping 
the  democratic  dividend. 
Extreme  poverty  and  hunger  must  be  eradicated.  The 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  of  adolescents,  young 
people  and  women  must  be  improved,  with  a  view 
especially  to  accelerating  the  promotion  of  family 
24/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
planning  practices.  The  rates  for  avoidable  maternal 
deaths and those of infants and children under 5 must 
be reduced to single digit figures. Practices that protect 
women, girls and children, including those in conflicts 
and  insecure  situations,  against  violence  must  be 
prioritized. Policies that inhibit early marriage must be 
supported. Social security must be institutionalized, so 
as to provide support for the elderly, especially ageing 
women. 
We  have  to  properly  situate  population  dynamics 
in 
the  entire  spectrum  of  our  population  and 
development programmes. We have to provide support 
to  build  capacity  and  invest  more  in  technology,  data 
collection,  analysis,  disaggregation,  dissemination, 
communication  and  management  strategies  for  the 
effective  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  policies  and 
programmes. We must prioritize programmes of action 
that  promote  the  security  of  life  and  property  and 
lasting  internal  stability.  Finally,  we  must  promote 
good governance, transparency and accountability.
Nigeria  urges  cooperation  on  the  part  of  all 
stakeholders  through  unconditional  partnerships  and 
global leadership from the United Nations as the next 
phase unfolds.
Mr.  Grima  (Malta):  Malta  welcomes  the  holding 
of  this  meeting  supplementing  the  special  session 
celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
and its Programme of Action. 
The  International  Conference,  held  in  Cairo  in 
1994, presented a paradigm shift when the international 
community  agreed  that  population  was  not  just  about 
people,  but  about  making  people  count.  Through  the 
Programme of Action, States made a pledge to improve 
the  lives  of  individuals  by  moving  away  from  the 
focus on numbers and instead putting human rights at 
the  heart  of  population  and  development  issues.  That 
approach ensured that realizing and protecting human 
rights would in turn contribute to the improvement of 
human lives and advance everyone’s well-being.
The  1994  Conference  Declaration  and 
its 
Programme  of  Action  is  a  point  of  reference  to  other 
processes and other key documents, such as the Beijing 
Platform for Action. As a matter of fact, the principles 
highlighted  in  Cairo  were  reconfirmed  six  years 
later  when  world  leaders  endorsed  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), which have been a central 
part of the United Nations work over the past 14 years. 
With less than a year left, it is important that Member 
States  continue  their  endeavours  to  fulfil  the  MDGs. 
The  ensuing  process  will  build  upon  their  successes 
and seek to address the gaps. The post-2015 framework 
should  accomplish  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
MDGs.
Economic  and  social  development  continue  to  be 
an integral part of the Cairo legacy - they are its pillars 
-  and,  together  with  sustainable  development,  remain 
a  dominant  factor  in  today’s  development  agenda. 
However, progress on the ICPD beyond 2014 agenda has 
to be universal and should address every part of society, 
thereby ensuring an all-inclusive society that leaves no 
one behind. It should also support other sectors, such as 
agriculture, energy, transport, environment, water and 
health.
Furthermore, any development agenda that aims at 
individual and collective well-being and sustainability 
has  to  guarantee  dignity  and  human  rights  to  all 
individuals.  Malta  believes  that  development  and 
human rights are intrinsically interrelated, and, to that 
end, it considers a move towards a human rights-based 
approach  to  development  cooperation  as  a  positive 
development.  Such  an  approach  helps  respect,  protect 
and fulfil human rights universally.
The progress achieved in improving the livelihood 
of  people  since  the  adoption  of  the  Programme  of 
Action can easily be seen. Tangible results include the 
advancement  of  the  status  of  women.  Most  societies 
now acknowledge and are working towards improving 
women’s full participation in all sectors of society. For 
example, the ICPD helped us promote the importance 
of economically independent women and their role in 
decision-making,  particularly  political  participation, 
as  a  means  of  enabling  development  and  healthier 
societies.
Thanks to the ICPD, we have also seen an increase 
in  the  rate  of  education,  which  is  also  a  means  of 
promoting  development  and  gender  equality  and  of 
changing  gender  stereotypes  and  discriminatory 
attitudes. In the past 20 years, we have seen a decrease 
in  extreme  poverty.  There  have  also  been  significant 
reductions  in  maternal  deaths  and  improvements  in 
skilled birth attendance. Having said that, we are still 
not there and more needs to be done.
The  world 
through  difficult  and 
challenging times. The prevalence of poverty, climate 
is  passing 
14-56244
25/27
A/69/PV.22 
09/10/2014
change, diseases like malaria and HIV/AIDS, the Ebola 
pandemic,  terrorism,  natural  diseases,  the  trafficking 
of persons, particularly women and children, and illegal 
trafficking  in  arms  and  drugs  are  all  proliferating 
the  risks  that  our  generation  is  facing  and  even  at 
times  threaten  the  very  existence  of  our  populations. 
Such  crises  and  threats  are  marginalizing  the  Cairo 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  MDGs,  putting  them 
beyond  our  reach  unless  a  renewed  effort  is  made  by 
all  to  correct  and  turn  the  tide  of  those  predicaments 
impeding  the  protection  of  our  present  and  future 
generations.
We  regret  that  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
has  of  late  been  associated  with  and  linked  solely  to 
reproductive  rights.  Although  chapters  VII  and  VIII 
represent important aspects of the ICPD, one must also 
appreciate  and  recognize  the  other  chapters  and  the 
Programme of Action in its entirety. As it did in Cairo 
many years ago, Malta would like to once again reaffirm 
its position on reproductive rights and its long-standing 
position that no recommendation or commitment can in 
any way create an obligation on any party to consider 
abortion  as  a  legitimate  form  of  reproductive  health 
rights,  services  or  commodities.  Malta  continues  to 
hold the view that any discussion of rights and services 
relating to reproductive health cannot take place outside 
the framework of one of the most fundamental human 
rights - the right to life.
Malta strongly believes that the right to life extends 
to the unborn child from the moment of conception, and 
that therefore the use of abortion as a means of resolving 
health or social problems is a denial of that right. It is 
within  such  a  framework  of  human  rights  -  the  right 
to  life -  that  Malta  has  for  the  past  20  years  held  the 
Cairo Declaration and the Programme of Action in high 
esteem. Malta will remain committed to implement the 
ICPD  values  and  objectives  in  that  spirit.  The  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  is  a  benchmark  document  that 
has served a guide for improving the lives and dignity 
of all people. The chapters are based on the notion that 
we all have to strive to improve human lives through the 
promotion and protection of human rights. Since 1994, 
a constant debate has centred on how to implement that 
belief.
As  we  move  forward  and  the  target  date  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  approaches, 
the 
its 
commitments  and  efforts  to  achieve  the  ICPD  goals 
and  commitments.  It  must  also  build  on  the  ICPD 
international  community  needs 
to  renew 
and  work  hard  to  reach  a  consensus  on  a  post-2015 
development agenda that responds to the opportunities 
and challenges of today’s world.
We  believe  that  the  work  on  the  framework  of 
actions for the follow-up to the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  beyond  2014  should  be  grounded  in  a 
critical  evaluation  of  the  success  of  the  ICPD,  the 
MDGs  and  subsequent  relevant  commitments.  In 
the  process,  both  successful  areas  and  those  needing 
improvement  should  be  identified  and  guide  our 
response  to  the  current  development  challenges  in  a 
post-2015 framework.
Mr. Giorgio (Eritrea): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for organizing this important meeting.
At the outset, I wish to express Eritrea’s commitment 
to  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD). 
The  assessment  of  the  status  of  the  implementation 
of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  undertaken  at  the 
forty-seventh session of the Commission on Population 
and Development, last April, was the result of intense 
and lengthy intergovernmental negotiations. It covered 
several  important  matters  that  are  essential  to  our 
core  values  with  regard  to  moving  forward  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  beyond  2014.  In  that  regard,  it 
is  important  that  the  development  strategy  should  be 
country-led and take the specific conditions, needs and 
priorities of every State into account.
As  many  countries  respond  to  the  challenges  of 
demographic  changes,  poverty,  social  inequalities, 
international migration, rapid urbanization and climate 
change,  it  is  vital  to  integrate  population  dynamics 
into  development  planning  at  the  national,  regional 
and  international  levels.  With  regard  to  the  linkages 
between the ICPD Programme of Action beyond 2014 
and  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  other 
intergovernmentally  agreed  goals,  it  essential  that 
the  overarching  goal  should  be  to  eradicate  extreme 
poverty in all its manifestations. 
To meet the commitments that we make and have 
made  in  various  forums,  cooperation,  coordination 
and  participation  should  be  enhanced  in  an  inclusive 
manner among all stakeholders. In the delivery of basic 
services, Eritrea has been emphasizing the participation 
of  communities  at  the  grass-roots  level  to  promote 
self-reliance  and  reduce  dependency.  By  mobilizing 
and  motivating  communities  to  be  involved  in  the 
26/27 
14-56244
09/10/2014 
A/69/PV.22
design,  development  and  utilization  of  development 
programmes,  Eritrea  has  succeeded  in  meeting  the 
health-related Millennium Development Goals 4, 5 and 
6.  That  significant  achievement  was  announced  in  a 
side  event,  jointly  organized  with  the  United  Nations 
country team, during the general debate at the current 
session.
that  more  needs 
However,  in  order  to  sustain  its  success,  Eritrea 
recognized 
to  be  done,  which 
includes  consolidating  and  building  on  those  gains, 
further  empowering  women  and  girls,  improving 
access  to  strengthened  reproductive  and  health-care 
services,  intensifying  efforts  to  end  child  marriages 
and  female  genital  mutilation,  continuing  to  build 
human  capabilities,  especially  among 
the  youth, 
and  strengthening  data  collection  analysis  and 
dissemination.
Since the adoption of the ICPD in 1994, migration 
has become a growing feature of our globalizing world, 
bringing challenges and opportunities to the countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  In  that  regard,  the 
nexus  between  migration  and  development  must  be 
comprehensively addressed.
Let  me  conclude  by  thanking  the  United  Nations 
Population Fund and its leadership for its cooperation 
in  organizing  a  series  of  consultations  and  briefings, 
especially  at  the  regional  level,  which  allowed  us  to 
benefit from an open and frank discussions on a range 
of  issues  leading  to  the  adoption  of  an  African  core 
position.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
14-56244
27/27
