United Nations
asdf General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
11th plenary meeting
Thursday, 25 September 2014, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/69/PV.11
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kutesa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Uganda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Masood Khan 
(Pakistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.20 p.m.
Address by Mr. Arthur Peter Mutharika, President 
of the Republic of Malawi
 The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear an 
address by the President of the Republic of Malawi.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika, 
President of the Republic of Malawi, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Mutharika:  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session. I have no doubt that his election at this juncture 
will  bring  to  the  notice  of  the  world  some  of  the 
problems and opportunities that exist in Africa. Malawi 
and  Uganda  have  enjoyed  cordial  relations  for  a  long 
time and my Government and my delegation will do all 
we can to support him in that very important position.
Let  me  also  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate 
his  predecessor,  Ambassador  John  William  Ashe,  for 
guiding  the  work  of  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the 
General Assembly with skill and pragmatism. I would 
also like to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
the steady manner in which he continues to guide our 
global Organization.
On 20 May, my country held its first ever tripartite 
elections,  which  enabled  Malawians  to  choose  their 
political leadership through a democratic and peaceful 
process.  The  elections  ushered  me  into  office  as  the 
fifth  President  of  the  Republic  of  Malawi.  I  would 
therefore  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  despite  a 
few challenges, the elections were free, fair, transparent 
and credible. In that vein, let me seize the opportunity 
to  thank  all  the  electoral  stakeholders,  both  local  and 
international, for their dedication to ensuring successful 
elections  in  my  country.  Malawi  has  come  out  of  the 
election much stronger than before.
On  6  July,  Malawi  commemorated  the  golden 
jubilee of its independence. As we commemorate the 50 
years of peace, law and order, we have tasked ourselves 
with taking stock of the development that the country 
has  registered  since  1964,  as  well  as  the  challenges 
that the country faces today. Much of the country has 
made some progress in diverse sectors of our national 
development, but there is still more to be done in order 
to  uplift  the  living  standards  of  the  many  Malawians 
who continue to remain below the poverty line. They 
too  dream  of  a  better  future,  which  is  possible  only 
if  we  work  with  unity  of  purpose.  In  a  quest  to  take 
development  to  the  micro  level,  my  Government 
has  embarked  on  a  journey  to  transform  Malawi  so 
as  to  ensure  the  delivery  of  satisfactory  services  to 
Malawians, especially the poor and the marginalized.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506. 
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the 
United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54929 (E)
*1454929*
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
As the Assembly is aware, Malawi was the chair of 
the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) 
from August 2013 until August 2014. During our term 
of office, we strove as a region to achieve long-lasting 
peace  and  stability  in  our  countries.  In  that  vein,  let 
me commend my country, Malawi, and the countries of 
Madagascar and South Africa for holding peaceful and 
credible elections.
The SADC group has been undertaking a number 
of  efforts  aimed  at  ending  the  cycle  of  conflicts  and 
violence  in  the  region.  In  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  SADC  deployed  the  Force  Intervention 
Brigade, comprising troops from Malawi, South Africa 
and Tanzania, under the auspices of the United Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  authorized  under  Security 
Council  resolution  2098  (2013).  The  SADC  group,  as 
well  as  the  international  community,  is  pleased  with 
the success achieved in getting the Mouvement du 23 
mars and other negative forces to leave the country and 
surrender. In Madagascar, SADC played a crucial role 
in bringing back constitutional normalcy in the country.
In  terms  of  international  peace  and  security,  I 
would  like  to  inform  this  gathering  that  Malawi  has 
always  supported  the  disarmament  of  all  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  To  that  end,  we  have  supported 
resolutions in the General Assembly aimed at nuclear 
disarmament. Over and above that, a couple of months 
ago, my country held an in-country workshop to come 
up  with  mechanisms  to  implement  Security  Council 
resolution 1540 (2004) at the national level to prevent 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear,  chemical  and  biological 
weapons and their means of delivery.
On  the  same  subject,  in  the  Middle  East,  Malawi 
has  always  been  disheartened  and  disappointed  by 
the  continuing  violence  and  loss  of  life  and  property 
resulting from the conflict between Israel and Palestine. 
That cannot go on forever. We trust that the two-State 
solution to the conflict, with Israel and Palestine living 
side by side, in peace and harmony, is the only viable 
way to achieve lasting peace in the region. We encourage 
both sides to the dispute to renounce violence, exercise 
utmost restraint and employ dialogue as the sure tool to 
reach a political settlement.
and inequality constitutes the greatest challenge of our 
time. The theme further augurs well for the future in 
relation  to  the  plans  and  aspirations  of  the  people  of 
Malawi.
in  designing 
Malawi  appreciates  the  consultative  nature  of 
the  process  followed 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Let  me  therefore  commend  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiatives  to  ensure  an  inclusive 
process  that  will  lead  to  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. With financial and technical support from the 
United Nations, more than 50 countries have conducted 
national consultations, in which people provided input 
and direction on the post-2015 development framework. 
I  am  pleased  that  Malawi  was  one  of  the  countries 
selected  for  those  national  consultations.  The  post-
2015 development agenda should reflect the needs and 
priorities of the developing world.
It  is  important  that  the  next  global  development 
agenda draw lessons from the successes and challenges 
of  the  current  blueprint  being  used,  namely,  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Rather than 
seeing 2015 as an end point, we must think of it as the 
beginning of a new era, an era in which we eradicate 
extreme poverty, protect the environment and promote 
economic opportunity for all. The MDGs have played 
an  important  role  in  concentrating  our  efforts  around 
the  common  purpose  of  eradicating  poverty.  They 
have  raised  public  awareness  about  the  unacceptable 
levels  of  poverty  and  have  helped  mobilize  action 
towards a fairer world. The MDGs provided a common 
framework for monitoring progress, highlighting areas 
of achievement as well as challenges.
Malawi is on track for achieving four of the eight 
MDGs,  namely,  reducing  child  mortality;  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases;  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability;  and  developing  a  global 
partnership for development. However, we are unlikely 
to  meet  the  other  four  goals,  namely,  eradicating 
extreme  poverty  and  hunger;  achieving  universal 
access  to  education;  ensuring  gender  equality  and 
the empowerment of women; and improving maternal 
health. Malawi will therefore be proceeding to the post-
2015  development  agenda  with  unfinished  business 
from the MDGs.
As for the post-2015 development agenda, the choice 
of  “Delivering  on  and  implementing  a  transformative 
post-2015  development  agenda”  as  the  theme  for  the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly could not 
be more appropriate. The fight against poverty, hunger 
One reason why developing countries like Malawi 
have failed to achieve all of the Millennium Development 
Goals is inadequate resources. Commitments made by 
development  partners  have  been  unpredictable  and 
have often gone unfulfilled. To achieve delivery of the 
2/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
post-2015 development agenda, the global community 
should  not  repeat  that  mistake.  More  importantly, 
accountability and transparency, as well as monitoring 
and  evaluation  mechanisms,  should  be  promoted. 
It  is  therefore  imperative  that,  as  we  move  closer  to 
welcoming  the  new  global  development  agenda,  we 
should  all  be  mindful  of  the  importance  of  global 
partnership for effective development cooperation. That 
would  ensure  the  agenda’s  successful  implementation 
in developing countries.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  should  not 
be  seen  as  a  one-size-fits-all  global  development 
framework. Malawi is looking forward to a framework 
that 
is  shared,  but  differentiated  enough,  where 
developing countries, depending on their special needs 
and  unique  characteristics,  will  have  flexibility  in 
implementing  programmes.  My  delegation  is  pleased 
with the tremendous progress made thus far in defining 
the post-2015 development agenda. It is in that context 
that  I  would  like  to  reiterate  and  confirm  Malawi’s 
commitment  to  achieving  sustainable  development  in 
three  interconnected  dimensions,  namely,  economic 
development,  including  the  end  of  extreme  poverty; 
social inclusion; and environmental sustainability.
I am convinced that Member States gathered here 
today will own the outcome document of the post-2015 
development agenda and will be committed to its full 
implementation. It is also encouraging to note that the 
sustainable development goals that emanated from the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals have incorporated the development concerns of 
both the developed and developing world.
With respect to Security Council reform, the year 
2015  will  mark,  as  the  General  Assembly  is  aware, 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations. 
As  such,  it  will  be  an  occasion  for  all  of  us  to  bring 
new  energy  into  the  Organization  and  carry  out  the 
important reforms that we have been calling for since 
its  inception.  For  instance,  the  limited  representation 
in  the  Security  Council  is  a  source  of  great  concern, 
particularly in the light of the challenges of the twenty-
first  century.  Only  by  expanding  the  number  of 
permanent and non-permanent members of the Council 
and by including developing countries in both categories 
will we be able to solve some of the legitimacy deficits 
under which the Council is currently labouring.
In conclusion, I would submit that the centre of the 
post-2015  development  agenda  should  be  to  address 
the  plight  of  hitherto  disadvantaged  groups,  such  as 
women, girls and persons with disabilities. It is a well-
known fact that the ugly face of poverty manifests itself 
through  women,  girls  and  persons  with  disabilities. 
It  is  sad  that  Africa,  the  continent  to  which  Malawi 
belongs,  shares  the  following  worrisome  statistics  in 
terms of human development. First, its share of global 
poverty is as high as 30 per cent. Secondly, 40 per cent 
of the continent’s children under 5 are stunted in their 
growth. Thirdly, Africa’s share of global child mortality 
amounts to 50 per cent. Finally, 50 per cent of Africa’s 
children are not in school.
I urge that the post-2015 development agenda give 
priority  to  those  challenges  for  redress.  Africa  has 
already spoken clearly about its priorities through the 
Common African Position on the post-2015 development 
agenda and through the African Union’s Agenda 2063, 
which  aspires  to  achieve  a  prosperous,  peaceful  and 
integrated Africa.
In  that  vein,  I  wish  to  call  on  all  stakeholders  to 
join  the  global  partnership  for  effective  development 
cooperation principles by implementing and delivering 
on  a  transformative  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Malawi  will  use  its  position  as  Chair  of  the  Global 
Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation to 
help realize that cause.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa, 
President of the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Waqa:  Allow  me 
to  congratulate 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency 
14-54929
3/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session. 
Let me assure him of my delegation’s full support and 
cooperation as he steers our work during this session. I 
must also commend his predecessor, Ambassador John 
Ashe, for showing such capable leadership during the 
previous  session.  He  led  the  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS)  through  several  important  milestones 
during  his  tenure,  including  the  International  Year 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States  and  the  recently 
concluded International Conference on SIDS in Samoa.
It has been said that the stars are aligned with SIDS 
this  year.  Ambassador  Ashe  has  been  our  brightest 
beacon,  and  I  thank  him  very  much  for  that.  Let  me 
also  thank  another  champion  of  the  SIDS,  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon.  Indeed,  earlier  this  year,  I 
sat  in  the  Trusteeship  Council  Chamber  when  the 
Secretary-General helped us celebrate the launch of the 
International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States. 
Showing  a  remarkable  understanding  of  our  unique 
circumstances, he said:
“The 
International  Year  offers  us 
the 
opportunity to celebrate the rich cultural heritage 
of the people of small island developing States and 
to  honour  their  many  contributions  to  our  world. 
It  is  also  an  opportunity  to  highlight  the  various 
needs  and  challenges  of  this  diverse  coalition. 
Some small island developing States have enjoyed 
long-lasting stability. Others are in transition. Some 
are economically more fragile than others... Others 
are extremely vulnerable to the immediate effects 
of climate change. But all small island developing 
States share a common understanding. We need to 
set our world on a sustainable path.”
The challenges of SIDS are many. One need only 
glance  at  the  headlines  to  appreciate  that  they  join  a 
long list of concerns that the international community 
must  confront 
today:  naked  brutality,  pestilence, 
poverty and the worsening impacts of climate change, 
to name only a few. I understand the impulse for us to 
put  off  hard  decisions  to  another  day,  prioritize  some 
over  others,  or  even  bury  our  heads  in  the  sand.  But 
the General Assembly is and remains the pre-eminent 
forum for grappling with global crises, and the United 
Nations is our best hope for solving them.
However,  if  we  are  to  be  successful,  we  must 
acknowledge a reality that lies beneath so many of those 
challenges,  namely,  that  we  live  in  an  interconnected 
world  and  that  the  actions  of  one  country  or  region 
impact the lives of people half a world away. Conflict, 
poverty and disease can send refugees across borders 
and  oceans  and  sometimes  all  the  way  to  our  shores. 
We can no longer escape each other. As the Secretary-
General also remarked, we all share the same island.
Also,  we  must  consider  my  country’s  connection 
to  the  ocean.  As  for  so  many  SIDS,  the  ocean  is  the 
foundation of our culture and economy, and we depend 
on  its  bounty  for  food  and  income.  Yet  the  reckless 
actions of other nations have severely undermined the 
marine  environment  on  which  we  so  depend  —  from 
excessive  greenhouse  gas  emissions  that  warm  the 
planet  and  make  the  seas  more  and  more  acidic  to 
irresponsible overfishing, the outright stealing of fish 
in  our  waters,  and  dangerous  pollution,  the  effect  of 
which we have yet to fully comprehend.
All  the  while,  some  of  those  same  countries 
responsible  for  the  damage  are  also  charged  with 
assessing  the  well-being  of  the  marine  environment. 
How  can  we  be  confident  that  our  interests  will  be 
protected in that effort? We, as a developing country, 
are constantly facing demands for greater transparency 
and accountability from the same actors that downplay, 
and sometimes even cover up, their own transgressions.
Finding  lasting  solutions  to  problems  such  as 
those  will  require  more  resources  and  a  level  of 
cooperation  that  the  international  community  has 
so  far  not  countenanced.  It  will  also  require  us  to 
look  at  the  failings  in  the  global  order  that  somehow 
prevent countries such as mine from accessing the fair 
economic benefits of our own resources. Nevertheless, 
we cannot just stand by and do nothing. We cannot and 
should not wait for others to decide what is best for us. 
For  that  reason,  the  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement 
are taking the lead in successfully managing their tuna 
stocks through such measures as curbing illegal fishing 
and sustainable harvesting.
The President has wisely chosen “Delivering on and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”  as  the  theme  of  the  general  debate  of  the 
sixty-ninth  session.  It  goes  to  the  heart  of  the  central 
task before us — not only fulfilling the long-standing 
promises  with  regard  to  sustainable  development  but 
also engendering a paradigm shift in the way that we 
achieve  such  development.  The  current  piecemeal 
approach, where a donor’s political interests determine 
aid priorities, may treat symptoms for a time, but it fails 
to address the underlying disease.
4/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
If  we  want  our  efforts  to  be  successful  over  the 
long term, we need to build a foundation that develops 
global  citizens  and  gives  them  the  tools  they  need  to 
succeed  in  a  global  world.  In  other  words,  we  must 
move beyond capacity-building to institution-building. 
What  is  needed  is  long-term  in-country  engagement, 
backed  by  real  resources,  that  produces  durable 
domestic  institutions  run  by  nationals.  We  cannot  let 
new and emerging issues distract or diminish work on 
core priorities that remain inadequately addressed. We 
may  be  experiencing  our  own  fatigue  when  we  again 
raise the issues of overfishing, climate adaptation and 
water treatment, but those are often the areas most in 
need of attention.
I know that tackling all of those problems will be a 
tall order and may seem quite daunting, I am absolutely 
confident  that  this  institution  and  its  agencies  are  up 
to the task. We have made some progress in reducing 
hunger,  poverty  and  disease.  And  just  this  week,  the 
world  watched  as  leaders  gathered  at  the  Climate 
Summit to announce the actions that their countries and 
corporations are planning in order to lower greenhouse 
gas  emissions  responsible  for  the  climate  crisis.  The 
Summit  provided  hope  that,  at  least  in  some  corners, 
serious  climate  action  is  imminent.  However,  it  was 
hard to ignore the fact that most announcements were 
about the greenhouse gas reductions that would occur 
under some future Government a decade or more in the 
future.
What  is  more,  SIDS,  which  contribute  only  a 
fraction of global emissions, have undertaken to build 
sustainable  economies  while  announcing  some  of  the 
most ambitious pledges to cut emissions. For example, 
we are working closely with the International Renewable 
Energy  Agency,  through  their  Lighthouses  initiative, 
to  achieve  our  own  goal  of  a  50  per  cent  reduction 
in  2020.  My  own  regional  group,  the  Pacific  SIDS, 
led  the  General  Assembly  to  formally  recognize  the 
connection  between  climate  change  and  international 
peace  and  security  in  2009  and  helped  convince  the 
Security Council to do the same in 2011.
But,  while  few  countries  doubt  the  correlation 
between climate change and conflict today and despite 
graphic examples of such in the past few years alone, 
there  is  still  disagreement  as  to  the  way  forward. 
Therefore, we are still of the opinion that the Secretary-
General  should  appoint  a  special  representative  on 
climate and security to analyse the projected security 
impacts of the crisis. In addition, the Secretary-General 
should  lead  a  joint  task  force  of  all  relevant  organs 
and specialized agencies to assess the capacity of the 
United Nations system to respond. That is the least we 
can do as an international body to prepare for one of the 
biggest challenges of our generation.
If  the  Security  Council  is  to  remain  relevant,  it 
must be adaptive enough to meet the latest threats, and 
climate  change  is  a  clear  and  present  danger  that  we 
ignore at our own peril. The Security Council must also 
reflect  new  geopolitical  realities  by  becoming  more 
representative  and  inclusive.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
Nauru supports the reform of the Security Council by 
enlarging its permanent and non-permanent categories 
and making its working methods more efficient. New 
members  should  be  more  geographically  diverse, 
but  they  must  also  be  willing  to  broaden  their  vision 
beyond a narrow focus on domestic interests to include 
a  commitment  to  the  common  good  of  all  Member 
States.
Similarly, the United Nations should ensure that all 
citizens of the world have the opportunity to participate 
in its activities. It must work for the 10,000 people in 
Nauru and other small countries, and it must not continue 
to  ignore  the  24  million  people  in  Taiwan,  who  time 
and  again  have  demonstrated  a  commitment  to  peace 
and regional cooperation. Nauru is pleased to note that, 
with  solid  international  support  and  the  cross-Strait 
rapprochement, the Republic of China has increased its 
meaningful participation in United Nations specialized 
agencies  and  mechanisms.  We  continue  to  encourage 
the  positive  interaction  between  the  two  sides  of  the 
Taiwan Strait in the international arena. Furthermore, 
I would like to recognize the contributions that Taiwan 
has  made  to  help  my  country  make  progress  towards 
its  national  sustainable  development  strategy.  I  take 
the  opportunity  to  also  express  my  country’s  deep 
appreciation to our friends and partners who continue 
to  support  our  sustainable  development  priorities, 
including Australia, Russia, New Zealand, the European 
Union, Cuba, Israel and Turkey, to mention a few.
The world is rapidly changing, and the new realities 
have  strained  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to 
respond  adequately.  Long-term  solutions  will  require 
a  new  commitment  to  providing  adequate  means  of 
implementation.  On  climate  change  alone,  we  are  far 
from the goal of providing $100 billion a year by 2020 
to help nations adapt to climate impacts that are now 
unavoidable and to build sources of clean energy, to say 
14-54929
5/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
nothing of the 0.7 per cent gross domestic product goal 
for development aid.
I know that we, as an international community, face 
numerous crises on many fronts and that much is being 
asked  of  us.  But  I  strongly  believe  that  it  is  in  times 
like  these  that  solutions  to  even  the  most  intractable 
problems emerge from the human spirit. It is in times 
like these that light emerges from darkness; hope from 
despair.
The small island developing States have laid out a 
vision to help us reach our full potential. I invite our 
partners  to  invest  in  our  peoples,  and  we  will  build 
a  better  and  more  secure  world.  The  United  Nations 
remains  our  best  hope  for  people  everywhere  to  live 
in peace and prosperity. My faith in it has never been 
stronger.  God  bless  the  Republic  of  Nauru  and  God 
bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Nauru for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr.,
President of the Republic of Palau
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Palau.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau 
Jr., President of the Republic of Palau, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Remengesau:  Without  trying  to  be 
melodramatic,  I  believe  that  my  country,  the  Pacific 
region  and  the  world  have  reached  a  crossroads.  In 
this  International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  leading  up  to  the  climate  change  negotiations 
at  the  twentieth  and  twenty-first  Conferences  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, the third International Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development  and  the  impending 
adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, viewed 
within the context of our rising oceans, the Ebola crisis 
in Africa and the apparent societal inferno in progress 
in the Arab world, we find our societies, our cultures 
and our economies under serious attack, never before 
experienced  on  so  many  fronts.  We  can  continue 
business as usual along our current course and wait for 
the horizons to clear the global haze or we can choose a 
different road, one that will give our critical habitats the 
chance  to  recover  and  thereby  ensure  their  continued 
ability to sustain us. Am I a foolish dreamer or a simple 
pragmatist? I guess that only time will tell.
However, I will say one thing. My country, small 
as it is, will not go down without a fight, using every 
available tool, nor will the Pacific region, whose people 
comprehend  first-hand  the  real  and  current  impacts 
of climate change and recognize that their oceans are 
becoming polluted and their fish stocks depleted. That 
is why the Pacific leaders at this year’s Pacific Islands 
Forum  supported  the  Palau  Declaration  under  the 
theme “The ocean: life and future”. Within that theme 
and Declaration, the Pacific leaders highlighted the fact 
that, in order to survive, we will have to continue to play 
a central role in the stewardship of one of the greatest 
endowments of the world — the Pacific Ocean. That is 
because, in our short lifetime, we have experienced a 
dangerous combination of human impacts that threaten 
the foundation of our Pacific livelihoods.
That is why we have called on the global community 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Forum  countries  to 
sustainably use their ocean resources and to conserve 
their valuable underwater heritage. That is why Palau, 
Kiribati, the Cook Islands, New Caledonia, the United 
States of America, the Federated States of Micronesia and 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands are currently in the 
process of declaring and establishing protected marine 
areas  of  different  sizes  and  requirements  to  reverse 
the current trends of overuse and overexploitation and 
thereby ensure a healthy ocean for our children.
That is why we are committed to ensuring the launch 
of negotiations by September 2015 for an international 
agreement  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea on the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of 
national jurisdiction. That is why we are calling upon 
the United Nations to ensure a stand-alone sustainable 
development goal (SDG) on oceans.
However,  while  we  are  strongly  in  favour  of  that 
critical  SDG,  we  are  concerned  that  the  post-2015 
development  dialogue  may  be  too  broad.  We  must 
6/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
remember  that  an  agenda  of  everything  is  effectively 
an agenda of nothing. Above all, our goals and targets 
must  be  realistic,  practical,  simple,  transparent  and 
measurable. In that context, we must continue to focus 
on the vulnerable countries and the people most in need. 
To  accomplish  that  objective,  we  must  recognize  that 
one size does not fit all and that we must continue to 
concentrate on a common but differentiated response.
Our 
international  community  has  years  of 
experience  of  what  does  and  does  not  work  with  our 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  is  now  time  to 
complete the work on the remaining half and to continue 
to improve both the level and the responsiveness of our 
financing  mechanisms.  We  must  also  ensure  that  the 
bulk  of  the  financing  reaches  those  that  need  it  most 
and that their share is not a mere drop in the bucket.
In  the  Pacific,  we  believe  action  must  begin 
in  one’s  own  backyard.  In  my  country,  in  the  next 
several  months,  we  will  formalize  the  establishment 
of  a  national  marine  sanctuary,  which  will  include  a 
complete prohibition on purse seine fishing that covers 
100  per  cent  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone  (EEZ), 
a  “no-take”  marine  sanctuary  that  covers  80  per  cent 
of the Palau EEZ; a highly regulated fishing zone that 
covers approximately 20 per cent of the EEZ and will 
provide for Palau’s domestic fishing needs alone; and a 
prohibition  on  commercial  fish  exports.  Through  our 
global actions and our partnerships between developing 
and  developed  nations  and  between  the  private  and 
the  public  sectors,  we  can  achieve  a  transformational 
shift in the way we think about the use of our Earth’s 
natural assets. By recognizing the ocean as a joint and 
primary  asset  of  every  citizen  on  our  planet,  we  can 
move  towards  the  global  management  of  our  global 
ocean exclusive economic zone.
Mr.  Aslov  (Tajikistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
We  must  never  shift  from  the  need  for  a  global 
climate  change  initiative  that  addresses  the  threat  to 
all people of all nations. Climate change is our planet’s 
silent war. It must not remain on the back pages of our 
minds and our global commitments. We must move it 
to the front page, alongside global conflicts, so that it 
receives the attention and the financing that it deserves. 
And we must understand that, in terms of public health, 
climate change is a defining issue for our century.
Climate  change  affects  the  air  that  we  breathe, 
the  food  that  we  eat,  the  water  that  we  drink  and 
the  infectious  diseases  that  find  their  way  into  our 
homes. Our world leaders, whether from developed or 
developing countries, must overcome the failures of our 
own lost generation. As the Secretary-General said, the 
race is on, and now is the time for leaders to step up and 
steer the world towards a safer future. A temperature 
increase of 3.6 degrees is simply not acceptable. If that 
is the best objective that our global leaders can agree 
on, we may as well throw in the towel and stop having 
children, because there will be no future for them.
By  the  end  of  2015,  our  global  leaders  must 
announce  a  new  direction  with  new  and  realistic 
commitments  and  practical  actions,  supported  by 
a  greatly  enhanced  financial  commitment  both  to 
mitigation and to adaptation. Those commitments must 
include  the  ratification  of  the  second  amendment  to 
the Kyoto Protocol. Within our discussions, migration 
should  not  be  an  option.  As  the  young  mother  Kathy 
Jetnil-Kijiner  from  the  Marshall  Islands  put  it  so 
beautifully on Tuesday, “No one is moving. No one is 
losing  their  homeland.  No  one  is  becoming  a  climate 
change refugee”.
Our  small  island  nations,  which  are  the  first  to 
feel the impacts of climate change, the first to feel the 
impacts of diminished marine resources and the first to 
wet our feet in sea-level rise, are ready and willing to 
lead. We do not call for action from developed nations 
that we are not willing to take ourselves. Last year, my 
country committed, under the Majuro Declaration for 
Climate  Leadership,  to  a  20  per  cent  contribution  of 
renewable energy to the energy mix and a 30 per cent 
reduction in energy consumption by 2020. We are well 
on the way to achieving those goals.
Since  its  independence,  Palau  has  been  blessed 
with strong partnerships. For over 50 years, the United 
States has provided its support and friendship. Without 
its support to Palau’s transition, revenue independence 
and infrastructure development, we would not be where 
we are today. Palau stands strongly behind the United 
States in its ongoing efforts to guide the international 
response  to  the  horrific  situation  in  Syria  and  Iraq 
and its actions to respond to the threat of the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  Sham.  Let  us  not  forget  that  global 
peace  and  stability  are  critical  if  we  are  to  achieve 
our  development  agenda  and  respond  to  the  issues  of 
climate change and ocean regeneration.
We  wish  to  give  special  thanks  for  President 
Obama’s  support  for  oceans  and  the  expressed  intent 
to set aside 10 per cent of our global oceans as marine 
14-54929
7/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
protected areas. Finally, we thank the United States for 
past and future technical and financial assistance in our 
efforts  to  implement  our  National  Marine  Sanctuary. 
We continue to look forward to finally completing our 
Compact of Free Association agreement, which reflects 
this close and special relationship.
Palau  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the  very 
significant  economic  support  that  we  have  received 
over  the  years  from  our  good  friend,  Japan.  We  are 
hopeful that the Security Council expansion and reform 
process  will  result  in  Japan’s  permanent  membership 
on the Security Council. We also are hopeful that Japan 
will continue to support and enhance public and private 
assistance to our exclusive economic zone surveillance 
efforts and our continued efforts to develop our National 
Marine Sanctuary.
In addition, Palau would like to thank the Republic 
of  China  on  Taiwan  for  its  friendship  and  economic 
support  in  assisting  Palau  to  achieve  our  Millennium 
Development Goals and would urge the United Nations 
system to involve Taiwan in the process of developing 
and  implementing  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
I  would  also  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  support 
Taiwan’s  broader  participation  in  the  United  Nations 
specialized agencies and regional economic integration 
mechanisms,  as 
the  World 
Health  Assembly,  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization, the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement 
and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership 
would  demonstrate  its  ability  to  contribute  to  global 
and regional initiatives.
its  participation 
in 
We  also  would  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  the 
Australian  Government  for  its  ongoing  partnership, 
its  annual  aid  assistance  focused  on  education  and 
its  commitment  to  providing  $2  billion  to  the  Pacific 
region to replace its aging marine surveillance fleet.
Finally, we would like to recognize the very broad 
list of partners around the globe that make our efforts 
to ensure a sustainable future possible, including New 
Zealand,  the  European  Union,  private  organizations, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil  society. 
Partnerships such as those are commitments. We would 
not be where we are today without them. In the post-
2015 development environment, we must all recognize 
that  our  actions  as  individuals,  States,  nations  and 
regions  have  an  impact  on  all  our  partners  on  planet 
Earth. If we are to save our oceans and if we are to stem 
the tide of greenhouse gases, we must establish a long-
lasting system of global partnerships and respect.
At the end of the day, we must recognize that some 
of us are developed and some of us are not. The means 
of implementation in terms of oceans, climate change, 
biodiversity and all of the other issues that require global 
solutions  are  therefore  a  recurring  and  central  issue. 
Without effective partnerships, change will simply not 
occur, and without legally binding commitments with 
respect  toour  oceans  and  climate  change,  we  will  not 
make the transformative changes that we need to make 
in the next generation.
As a small island developing State and a member of 
the Pacific community, I am ready, willing and able to 
commit to doing my share. I am even willing to lead. 
But let us not fool ourselves. The only way to make a 
difference in this modem global era is to go beyond our 
self-centred  mentality.  By  standing  together,  we  can 
indeed  craft  a  sustainable  future  for  our  children  and 
for generations to come.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Palau for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic  of  Palau,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President 
of the United Republic of Tanzania
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the United Republic 
of Tanzania.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United Republic of Tanzania, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete, 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kikwete: I congratulate my brother Sam 
Kutesa of the Republic of Uganda on his well-deserved 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth session. While wishing him every success 
in  the  discharge  of  his  duties  and  responsibilities, 
my  delegation  and  I  promise  him  our  full  support 
8/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
and  cooperation.  Allow  me  also  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
for  his  remarkable  leadership  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-eighth session.
Our  illustrious  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
deserves  praise  and  appreciation  for  his  leadership 
and  the  good  work  he  is  doing  for  our  esteemed 
Organization.  He  has  been  performing  his  duty  with 
courage,  dedication,  passion  and  commitment 
in 
driving the United Nations agenda. We will always be 
grateful to him.
We  welcome  and  fully  endorse  the  theme  of  this 
implementing 
year’s  debate,  “Delivering  on  and 
a 
transformative  post-2015  development  agenda”. 
We  expect  the  discussion  on  it  to  make  important 
contributions  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
about to start on the post-2015 development goals. As 
we dedicate our time and effort to the negotiations on 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  we  must  not  lose 
sight  of  the  unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  is  important  that 
any  unaccomplished  targets  and  indicators  should  be 
properly factored into the new agenda. In the meantime, 
we should ensure that we use the remaining 461 days to 
accelerate the pace of implementing the MDGs.
The  issue  of  financing  the  implementation  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  must  be  given 
special attention. I am mentioning this matter because 
experience  has  taught  us  that,  other  factors  aside,  we 
will fall short of attaining a number of the MDG targets 
and  indicators  because  of  unpredictable,  unreliable, 
insufficient  and  untimely  availability  of  financial 
resources.  Therefore,  for  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  to  be  achieved,  we  must  devise  a  mechanism 
to  ensure  stable,  predictable  and  reliable  sources  of 
finance for their implementation.
There is more to the year 2015 than the deadline for 
the  MDGs  and  the  onset  of  the  post-2015  sustainable 
development  goals.  The  year  2015  is  also  a  deadline 
for  the  world  to  conclude  a  legally  binding  climate 
change  agreement.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for convening the Climate Summit that took place on 
23  September,  here  at  the  United  Nations.  It  afforded 
us a unique opportunity to put our minds together and 
deliberate on ways to save this planet from disaster and 
advance  on  clean  development  pathways.  It  was  very 
opportune,  indeed,  to  hold  the  Summit  two  months 
before  the  twentieth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change (COP-20), which is due to be held in Lima in 
December 2014, and one year before COP-21, to be held 
in Paris next year. In many ways, the Summit may help 
to  make  the  work  in  Peru  less  difficult.  As  members 
know,  a  successful  Lima  Conference  will  mean  a  lot 
in  terms  of  the  Paris  Conference,  where  we  expect 
to  conclude  a  legally  binding  climate  agreement.  We 
know it is not easy, but Tanzania and Africa as a whole 
are appealing to all countries from all continents to do 
whatever it takes to ensure that COP-21 delivers on the 
expectations  all  of  us  have.  Failure  should  not  be  an 
option.
United Nations reforms are long overdue. Reports 
that  consultations  and  negotiations  are  not  showing 
encouraging  signs  of  progress  are  very  frustrating 
indeed. We should remain steadfast and vigilant and not 
allow the momentum to be lost. We humbly request the 
President of the Assembly to use his good offices and 
long-standing diplomatic skills to revitalize the process 
and keep it on track. We must keep the flame burning.
Global  peace  and  security  are  in  a  state  of  flux. 
The  events  occurring  in  North  Africa,  the  Middle 
East, Eastern Europe, the Great Lakes region and the 
Horn  of  Africa  are  matters  of  concern  to  all  of  us. 
Equally important is the menace of terrorism; the illicit 
exploitation  of  natural  resources;  poaching;  and  the 
illicit trade in narcotic drugs and weapons, which are 
making the world less secure.
Terrorism  is  assuming  new  dimensions,  making 
it  a  huge  threat  today  because  of  its  indiscriminate, 
lethal  and  callous  character.  Hundreds  of  innocent 
people  have  lost  their  lives  or  been  abducted,  with 
fatal consequences. No country is insulated from this 
menace, and nobody is safe. As such, it calls for all of 
us to play an active role in the fight against terrorism 
and cross-border crime. Al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham and other terrorist 
organizations should not be allowed to have their way. 
Libya should not be left to disintegrate. The senseless 
fighting  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and  South 
Sudan  must  be  brought  to  an  end.  This  world,  under 
the  leadership  of  the  Security  Council  and  regional 
organizations, has the capacity to do exactly that. Let 
us do what is required of us to stop the bloodshed, loss 
of life, suffering of innocent people and destruction of 
property.
The  horrifying  scenes  of  bombings  and 
the 
deaths  of  innocent  women,  children  and  men  in  the 
recent  hostilities  between  Israel  and  Palestine  are 
14-54929
9/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
heartbreaking.  Unfortunately,  the  conflict  has  been 
going  on  for  far  too  long,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
lasting  solution  is  known:  two  States,  living  side  by 
side harmoniously. That solution has been elusive. The 
time has now come for the United Nations, the United 
States of America, Russia, Europe and other global and 
regional Powers to come together in concerted efforts 
to make it happen. We should not wait any longer.
As regards the question of Western Sahara, let me 
reiterate  the  appeal  I  made  last  year  to  the  Security 
Council  to  do  everything  in  its  power  to  resolve  that 
problem once and for all. Honestly, I cannot comprehend 
why that problem, which began around the same time as 
that in East Timor, nearly 40 years ago, should remain 
unresolved  to  this  day.  What  are  the  insurmountable 
challenges  impeding  the  United  Nations  from  ending 
the impasse? I ask the United Nations to please do what 
is needed and put the Sahrawi question to rest. I know 
it can.
Once again, we in Tanzania wish to join others who 
spoke before us in calling for an end to the sanctions 
and embargo against Cuba and its people. For over 50 
years, the embargo has condemned the people of Cuba, 
including  innocent  children  and  women,  to  perpetual 
hardship and poverty. It is high time that the embargo 
be lifted and the people of Cuba given the opportunity 
to live in dignity like everybody else on this planet.
This session of the General Assembly is being held 
at a time when our brothers and sisters in Liberia, Sierra 
Leone and Guinea are confronting the worst outbreak 
of  the  deadly  Ebola  epidemic  to  date.  In  those  three 
countries,  together  with  Nigeria  and  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  some  2,400  people  have  lost 
their lives. The disease, which has no cure or vaccine 
as  yet,  presents  a  major  threat  to  the  countries  where 
the disease is known to exist, but also to neighbouring 
countries  and  beyond.  Unless  the  world  succeeds  in 
controlling  the  spread  of  this  disease,  there  is  every 
likelihood that it will become a global epidemic.
Our  collective  efforts  in  that  regard  are  the  best 
way  forward.  I  believe  the  world  has  the  technology, 
knowledge and financial resources that, if put together, 
can  defeat  the  threat  posed  by  Ebola.  We  should  also 
continue to support the efforts of the world’s scientists, 
who  are  working  tirelessly,  day  and  night,  in  search 
of a cure and a vaccine. We applaud the efforts being 
undertaken  by  the  United  Nations,  the  World  Health 
Organization, the United States Government and other 
countries with the necessary technical and technological 
capabilities  to  assist  the  affected  countries  and  wage 
the fight against the disease worldwide
We request four things. First, we must continue and, 
where possible, bolster that support until the spread of 
the disease is under control. Secondly, we must continue 
to assist other nations in West Africa and elsewhere on 
the  African  continent  in  building  their  capacities  for 
surveillance, isolation and treatment. Thirdly, we must 
intensify  our  efforts  to  develop  a  cure  and  a  vaccine 
to save the lives of those infected now and to prevent 
others  from  being  infected.  Fourthly  and  finally,  we 
must help Africa; we must help African nations so that 
the stigma that is developing against Africa because of 
Ebola is stopped.
Reports  that  a  number  of  people  from  other 
continents are now shying away from coming to Africa 
and  are  cancelling  travel  plans  because  of  Ebola  are 
disturbing. That is threatening to kill the all-important 
tourism industry, trade and investment flows to Africa. 
May  the  United  Nations  and  friends  of  Africa  please 
help  us  to  tell  the  world  that  Africa  is  a  continent  of 
54  countries,  not  a  country  of  54  provinces.  Not  all 
countries in Africa have the disease. Moreover, many 
countries are far away from the concerned countries in 
West Africa. In fact, the affected countries are closer 
to  Europe  than  they  are  to  Kenya,  Tanzania  or  South 
Africa in eastern and southern Africa, to mention but a 
few. As a matter of fact, they are 9 to 11 hours away by 
air from those countries. To cancel travel to our parts 
of Africa is incomprehensible and a gross injustice to 
the continent.
I  am  confident  that  this  seven-day  debate  on 
the 
implementing  a 
theme  “Delivering  on  and 
transformative post-2015 development agenda” affords 
us  another  opportunity  to  define  a  bright  future  for 
ourselves, our children, our children’s children and their 
grandchildren. We should seize the moment to build on 
the success stories and lessons from the many countries 
and  peoples  who  have  been  successful.  We  should 
also learn from the challenges and failures during the 
implementation of the MDGs in conceiving the goals, 
targets  and  indicators  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  Tanzania  stands  ready  to  cooperate  with  the 
rest  of  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  family  in 
building consensus on the post-2015 development goals.
Allow me to conclude by appealing to everyone in 
this Hall to promise to work for a post-2015 development 
agenda that will make the world a better place for all of 
us to live in.
10/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the United 
Republic of Tanzania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Stephen Harper, Prime Minister 
of Canada
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Canada.
Mr.  Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Stephen Harper, Prime 
Minister  of  Canada,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Harper (Canada) (spoke in French): It is both 
an honour and a pleasure for me to once again address 
the Assembly.
(spoke in English)
For more than 70 years, Canada has supported the 
United  Nations  and  its  institutions  in  the  pursuit  of 
world  peace.  On  many  occasions  Canadians  have  put 
their lives on the line to deter active conflict between 
peoples. It is a duty we accept and it is a record of which 
we are proud.
Today, there are many embattled parts of the world 
where  the  suffering  of  the  local  populations  and  the 
threats to global security deserve our urgent attention, 
and I could easily use my entire time here on any one 
of them. There are, however, other areas of service to 
humankind. It is to some of those that I wish to speak 
tonight, for there is more to peace than the absence of 
war.  Where  human  misery  abounds,  where  grinding 
poverty  is  the  rule,  where  justice  is  systematically 
denied,  there  is  no  real  peace  —  only  the  seeds  of 
future conflict. 
(spoke in French)
Of  course,  misery  and  injustice  are  not  the  only 
roots of war. We need only look at the world today to 
appreciate that.
(spoke in English)
Then  we  understand  how  the  worst  of  human 
nature — perverse ideologies, religious extremism and 
the lust for power and plunder — can rob people in so 
many  places  of  property,  hope  and  life  itself.  That  is 
why Canada has always been ready and willing to join 
with other civilized peoples and to challenge affronts to 
the international order, affronts to human dignity itself, 
such as those that are today present in Eastern Europe, 
particularly Ukraine, in the Middle East — Iraq, Syria 
and elsewhere — and of course many parts of Africa.
Canada’s positions on those issues are well known, 
and  we  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  extent  to 
which  we  are  able  in  assisting  our  friends  and  allies 
in  the  international  community  to  deal  with  those 
grave  challenges.  But  while  those  extreme  situations 
are  being  confronted,  other  problems  —  pandemics, 
climate  change  and,  of  course,  the  problems  of 
underdevelopment — remain.  
(spoke in French)
And we feel strongly that no effort is ever in vain 
if  it  offers  peoples  an  alternative  to  conflict  and  the 
possibility of a better life for them and their families.
(spoke in English)
Canadians therefore seek a world where freedom, 
democracy,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
respected. We hold those things to be intrinsically right 
and good. We also believe that they are the necessary 
foundation for a better world for more people and are 
necessary for prosperity. With prosperity comes hope, 
and  with  hope, the  greater  inclination  of  free  peoples 
everywhere  to  find  peaceful  solutions  to  the  things 
that  divide  them.  Indeed,  we  believe  that  freedom, 
prosperity and peace form a virtuous circle. 
For that reason, the growth of trade among nations 
and the delivery of effective development assistance to 
ordinary people — simple, practical aid — are the things 
that have become the signatures of our Government’s 
outreach  in  the  world.  Trade  means  jobs,  growth  and 
opportunities.  It  has  made  great  nations  out  of  small 
ones. The story of my own country, Canada, is a case in 
point. Historically, trade has built our country, just as 
today it is reshaping our world. Trade means ordinary 
people  can  support  their  families  and  even  dare  to 
dream of something much more.
14-54929
11/31
A/69/PV.11 
(spoke in French)
Our  Government  has  worked  hard  to  establish  a 
vast network of modern trade agreements.
(spoke in English)
The trade agreements we have concluded tear down 
the barriers of tariff and excise and enlarge markets and 
opportunities for buyers and sellers alike. Canada has 
now  established  such  links  with  countries  that  today 
possess more than a quarter of the world’s people and 
nearly  half  the  world’s  business.  And  our  free-trade 
network will grow larger yet. It is not, by the way, an 
exclusive club for wealthy nations.
(spoke in French)
Canada  has  already  liberalized  its  trade  with 
countries  better  known  for  their  determination  to 
succeed  than  for  the  size  of  their  economies,  thereby 
opening the way for them to access Canadian and other 
markets. We have no reason to stop now. As indicated 
by my colleague from Senegal, President Macky Sall, 
“Aid  is  needed  for  development,  but  what  is  needed 
even more is investment”. He is quite right.
(spoke in English)
Yet  no  matter  how  freely  we  trade,  millions  of 
people will need a helping hand for some time to come. 
Easily the most important example, and the one closest 
to  my  heart,  is  the  worldwide  struggle  upon  which 
so  many  of  you  have  been  engaged,  in  the  maternal, 
newborn  and  child  health  initiative.  Saving  the  lives 
of  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  mothers,  infants  and 
children must remain a top global priority. That is, the 
world must honour the commitments made in this very 
Hall  to  mothers  and  children  in  the  year  2000.  And 
there has been remarkable progress.
(spoke in French)
Thanks to inexpensive vaccines and the combined 
efforts  of  multiple  partners,  more  children  are 
being  vaccinated  today  than  ever  before.  And  as  the 
importance  of  nutrition  becomes  better  understood, 
more  and  more  children  are  surviving.  Thanks  to 
simple, low-cost, easily accessible techniques, literally 
millions of mothers and children who a mere 14 years 
ago might have died not only survive today, but thrive.
(spoke in English)
I  think  especially  of  the  2010  meeting  of  world 
leaders  at  Muskoka,  which  raised  about  $7.5  billion 
25/09/2014
dollars, $2 billion of it from private donors. Based on 
that, the United Nations launched what the Secretary-
General called the “Every woman, every child” initiative, 
with  the  goal  of  saving  16  million  lives  by  2016.  An 
important  aspect  of  that  work  has  been  monitoring 
both  the  receipt  of  monies  pledged  and  how  they  are 
used. The assurance of full accountability has allowed 
recipients to plan with greater certainty and donors to 
give  with  confidence.  With  His  Excellency  President 
Kikwete of Tanzania, whom we have just heard, it was 
my honour to co-chair the World Health Organization’s 
Information and Accountability Commission linked to 
that initiative.
On this, we have a clear vision, and that vision is 
achievable. We know how to help a great many of those 
vulnerable people. We have seen what can be done. We 
want simply to rally the passion and the will to make it 
happen. We are preventing deaths, and we can prevent 
more — deaths of thousands of children every day from 
easily  preventable  causes.  We  can  stop  the  thousands 
of  mothers  dying  in  childbirth  who  would  survive 
with  relatively  little  intervention.  We  also  know  who 
we need to be working with — new partnerships that 
bring together Governments and agencies of the United 
Nations, including the World Health Organization, the 
World Food Programme and UNICEF, with the private 
sector, partnerships that are producing real results and 
taking us to new heights of excellence.
Here  I  am  thinking  of  the  Maternal,  Newborn 
and  Child  Health  Network  in  Canada,  a  group  that 
represents a broad base of Canadian civil society and 
is a key implementing partner on the ground. As many 
representatives know, in May in Toronto, Canada hosted 
the  world’s  leading  actors  on  that  subject.  We  heard 
the  success  stories  —  for  example,  the  Micronutrient 
Initiative through which 180 million children received 
vitamin  A,  pills  that  cost  pennies  but  drop  child 
mortality  by  25  per  cent.  We  heard  about  the  Global 
Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  and  how 
during  the  three-year  period   between  2010  and  2013, 
immunizations saved the lives of 2 million children.
We have partnerships to deliver better nutrition and 
partnerships  to  deliver  better  measurement,  because 
vital  statistics  are  critical.  One  cannot  manage  what 
one cannot measure. And in that mission, we measure 
progress in precious lives saved. So every child needs 
a birth certificate.
12/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
(spoke in French)
We also heard that in the world today is a greater 
obligation with regard to accountability, not only with 
regard to the vast sums of money pledged, but also the 
way in which that money is spent.
(spoke in English)
So our consensus was clear. We have seen success, 
and  we  have  momentum.  Saving  the  lives  of  children 
and mothers is a fight we can win. To get it done, two 
things  are  needed  now:  political  focus  and  renewed 
financial commitment. I therefore urge the Assembly, in 
the strongest terms, to ensure that, maternal, newborn 
and child health remains a clear and top priority in the 
evolving  post-2015  development  agenda  —  and  one 
of a limited number of priorities. That is the political 
focus we need. Then there is the financial commitment. 
I know we all have many competing priorities. But we 
have come so far that to stop now would be a tragedy.
I  must  say  I  was  very  encouraged  this  afternoon 
at the Secretary-General’s “Every woman, every child” 
event, when President Kim of the World Bank and other 
leaders announced new financing for the Bank’s Global 
Financing  Facility  for  Every  Woman  Every  Child. 
That Facility will help developing countries access the 
financing  required  to  improve  their  health  systems.  I 
was pleased to announce that Canada would financially 
support the World Bank’s Global Financing Facility for 
Every Woman Every Child. 
(spoke in French)
We  urge  other  countries  to  do  likewise  because 
to provide viable solutions to prevent the tragic death 
of  women  and  children,  we  need  to  increase  budget 
allocations on the part of both donors and the developing 
countries.
(spoke in English)
In  closing,  let  me  just  say  this.  There  are  many 
individual countries and many specific causes that will 
rightly occupy our deliberations here this week. Let us 
also not forget to look beyond those crises at the long-
term opportunities and efforts that can truly transform 
the  world.  We  have  it  in  our  power  to  create  a  better 
kind of world for our children’s children than the one 
we have today.
And we should, for it was never the intention of the 
founders  of  the  United  Nations  —  Canada  being  one 
of them — that ours would be a world where terrorists 
A/69/PV.11
could  get  the  resources  necessary  to  sow  death  and 
destruction  but  where  workers  and  families  could 
not  get  jobs  and  opportunities,  or  where  mothers  and 
children  could  not  obtain  the  necessities  required  to 
live and thrive.
The world that Canada strives for is the world that 
the  founders  of  the  United  Nations  wanted  from  the 
beginning,  as  boldly  articulated  in  their  Declaration 
of  1  January  1942  —  a  world  where  “life,  liberty, 
independence  and  religious  freedom”  are  defended, 
where  “human  rights  and  justice”  are  preserved,  and 
where all join “in a common struggle against savage and 
brutal forces seeking to subjugate the world”. In such 
a world, there can be prosperity for the impoverished, 
justice  for  the  weak  and,  for  the  desperate,  that  most 
precious of all things, hope.
It is easy to look at the many problems of the world 
today and become despondent. Yet for all our failings, 
there  has  been,  for  most  of  humankind,  tremendous 
progress in my lifetime. Therefore, I am enough of an 
optimist  to  think  that  because  we  can  create  a  more 
prosperous, fairer and hopeful world, not only should 
we, but indeed, I believe we will find the will to do so.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Canada 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister and 
Minister for General Affairs of the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Rutte (Netherlands): On 17 July, in a summer 
already  marked  by  alarming  reports  from  Syria, 
Iraq  and  Gaza,  our  country  was  confronted  with  a 
14-54929
13/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
stark  international  reality.  The  298  passengers  of 
Flight MH-17 would be alive today if not for the Crimea 
conflict and the destabilization of eastern Ukraine. Of 
those victims, 196 were Dutch nationals.
That  tragedy  has  had  an  enormous  impact  on 
our  country  —  so  many  innocent  men,  women  and 
children, entire families ripped from neighbourhoods, 
empty  desks  in  offices  and  schools,  teammates  gone 
forever. Everyone in the Netherlands knew someone in 
that  plane,  directly  or  indirectly,  and  we  will  feel  the 
pain for years to come. Some of the victims still have 
not been identified, and that must be done as soon as 
possible. Nothing is more important to their loved ones, 
wherever in the world they may be.
This  summer  we  were  reminded  again  of  how 
closely  interwoven  events  at  home  and  abroad  can  be 
and how important a stable world order is to our national 
interests. We saw again that when it comes to addressing 
the major problems facing the global community, there 
is simply no alternative to working together. That is the 
firm conviction of the Dutch Government.
We are grateful for the wide support for Security 
Council resolution 2166 (2014). All remains and personal 
belongings must be repatriated. The cause of the Flight 
MH-17  disaster  must  be  brought  to  light,  and  those 
responsible  must  be  brought  to  justice.  Unhindered 
access to the crash site is therefore essential. The Dutch 
Government  is  fully  committed  to  achieving  those 
goals, working with all the countries and organizations 
involved.
The  Constitution  of  the  Netherlands  contains  a 
unique article that says, “The Government shall promote 
the development of the international legal order”. That 
self-imposed responsibility comes from a long tradition 
of freedom, respect for the rule of law and our country’s 
international orientation. In March, we put that principle 
into  practice  once  again  when  we  hosted  the  Nuclear 
Security  Summit,  a  conference  on  an  important  topic 
that must remain high on the international agenda. The 
events of this summer have made us even more resolute 
about promoting the international legal order and about 
working to that end with everyone here in the General 
Assembly,  in  the  knowledge  that  peace,  justice  and 
development are closely interconnected.
The  year  2015  is  an  important  one  for  the  global 
the 
development  agenda.  We  will  be  reviewing 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  raising 
the 
bar  once  again.  In  July  this  year,  the  Open  Working 
Group on Sustainable Development Goals laid a solid 
foundation for the future that reflects the Netherlands’ 
priorities.  The  most  important  goal  is  to  eradicate 
extreme  poverty  within  a  generation  in  a  way  that 
does not harm economic growth, social equality or the 
environment. We must link short-term goals with long-
term goals.
Despite  the  progress  made,  we  know  that  fragile 
States,  where  the  rule  of  law  barely  exists,  had  no 
chance  of  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  In  2013  there  were  more  displaced  people  in 
conflict  regions  than  ever  before.  For  those  reasons, 
the  Netherlands  applauds  the  Open  Working  Group’s 
intention to include peace and the rule of law in the new 
framework.
We also welcome the  Secretary-General’s announced 
intention  to  establish  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Ebola  Emergency  Response.  The  Netherlands  will 
substantially increase its humanitarian aid. Part of that 
effort is a new contribution of €18 million to the fight 
against Ebola.
In the same vein, the Netherlands will continue to 
support and participate in United Nations peacekeeping 
missions.  We  currently  have  military  personnel  and 
relief  workers  serving  in  Mali,  South  Sudan  and 
elsewhere.  The  upcoming  review  of  peacekeeping 
missions is an opportunity to improve the instrument 
and  make  it  more  effective.  The  Netherlands  believes 
that major progress can be made on that front by further 
integrating  the  three  Ds:  defence,  development  and 
diplomacy.
Our  commitment  to  fulfilling  Security  Council 
resolution  1325  (2000)  remains  firm  too,  because 
women’s leadership is essential to achieving peace and 
security. The important role that women play as change 
agents  in  politics,  economic  development  and  society 
cannot be emphasized enough.
As  host  country  to  many  international  legal 
institutions, including the International Court of Justice 
and the International Criminal Court, the Netherlands 
feels a special responsibility with respect to international 
law.  When  innocent  people  fall  victim  to  impunity, 
human  rights  violations  and  the  violence  of  war,  the 
international  community  cannot  and  should  not  just 
stand by and just watch. Perpetrators must be brought 
to  justice,  however  complex  and  time-consuming  the 
process may be. We owe this not only to the passengers 
of  Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17,  but  also  to  the 
14/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
victims of violence in Syria and in Iraq. The horrifying 
images of mass executions and beheadings in the region 
are  burned  into  our  memories.  They  impress  upon 
us  how  important  it  is  for  the  Security  Council  and 
international legal institutions to be able to act boldly 
and decisively.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands,  a  partner  for 
peace,  justice  and  development,  is  a  candidate  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  in  2017 
and  2018.  We  want  to  help  modernize  and  strengthen 
that  important  United  Nations  body.  Renewal  is 
needed to ensure its effectiveness and legitimacy. The 
Security Council must be able to act in a crisis. When 
mass atrocities are being committed somewhere in the 
world,  veto  power  should  be  exercised  with  greater 
restraint. We salute the French initiative in that regard. 
We  also  believe  that  the  Security  Council’s  authority 
and  resolve  would  be  enhanced  if  the  United  Nations 
Member  States  were  more  broadly  represented.  That 
is  especially  true  of  the  African  States  which,  in  our 
opinion, are underrepresented.
In closing, Dag Hammarskjöld once said that
“[t]he principles of the Charter are, by far, greater 
than the Organization in which they are embodied, 
and the aims which they are to safeguard are holier 
than  the  policies  of  any  single  nation  or  people” 
(S/PV.751, para. 4).
in 
to  promoting 
its  commitment 
The  Netherlands  shares  that  conviction  and  remains 
steadfast 
the 
international legal order, as our Constitution demands.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Qohir Rasulzoda, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Tajikistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Tajikistan.
Mr.  Qohir  Rasulzoda,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Tajikistan, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Qohir Rasulzoda, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Rasulzoda (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): It is 
my great pleasure to endorse the warm congratulations 
extended  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  on  his  election  to  the 
responsible post of President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  gratitude  to  Mr.  John  Ashe  for  his  important 
contribution to the work of the General Assembly at its 
prior session.
the  determination 
My  delegation  shares 
to 
eradicate hunger and poverty and to promote progress 
in  elaborating  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
In  our  view,  the  post-2015  development  agenda  must 
be  based  on  the  foundation  of  the  development  goals 
formulated  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
55/2) and envisage ways and means of responding to the 
challenges of a new generation.
The main goal of the post-2015 development agenda 
should  be  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  inequality, 
as  well  as  promoting  sustainable  development  based 
on  balanced  consideration  of  social,  economic  and 
environmental  factors.  The  sustainable  development 
goals,  based  on  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable 
development, the Rio de Janeiro principles and national 
specificities  and  priorities,  should  serve  as  the  key 
components  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In 
that  respect,  we  support  the  recommendations  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  Experience  has  shown  that  a  goal  can  be 
achieved  only  if  specific  plans  are  complemented  by 
the development of effective mechanisms for its review 
and  implementation.  Our  hope  is  that  this  forum  will 
become  an  important  venue  for  ongoing  dialogue 
and  review  of  the  implementation  of  the  sustainable 
development goals.
is 
the 
efforts 
issues  concerning 
Addressing 
sustainable  development 
financing 
equally 
of 
important 
in  achieving  sustainable  development. 
Global  partnerships  for  development  based  on  the 
Millennium  Declaration  have  contributed  to  a  certain 
extent  towards  the  achievement  of  a  number  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  However, 
gaps and flaws in global partnerships continue to cause 
additional  difficulties  on  the  path  towards  full  and 
timely implementation of the MDGs.
14-54929
15/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
We consider it necessary to strengthen and expand 
global  partnerships 
in  accordance  with  previous 
commitments.  On  that  basis,  new  global  partnerships 
should  be  established  for  the  benefit  of  sustainable 
development, which will become the key element of the 
global system of promoting and advancing sustainable 
development. In that regard, we note the key importance 
of  the  recommendations  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing,  the  intergovernmental  process  tasked  with 
discussing  proposals  to  establish  a  United  Nations 
mechanism  to  promote  development  and  technology 
transfer.
Tajikistan has consistently strengthened its efforts 
to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Extra  measures  have  been 
undertaken to create a favourable investment climate, 
including  a  balanced  budget  policy,  diversifying  the 
economy  and  increasing  employment  opportunities.
The National Development Strategy of the Republic of 
Tajikistan up to 2015 is a road map for the Government 
to achieve sustainable economic growth, to provide the 
population  with  better  access  to  basic  social  services 
and to reduce poverty.
As  a  result  of  such  measures  to  ensure  economic 
growth, in recent years we have managed to significantly 
reduce the level of poverty in the country. As a United 
Nations  pilot  country  for  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals, we plan to carry out 
a comprehensive review of the implementation of those 
Goals in Tajikistan in 2015. The lessons learned from 
the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  will  be  taken  into 
account during the development of a new programme of 
sustainable development for the period up to 2030. We 
are  willing  to  closely  cooperate  in  a  transparent  way 
with United Nations agencies and programmes, partner 
countries and other relevant organizations.
As  members  may  be  aware,  on  22  March  2005, 
in  New  York,  we  saw  the  launch  of  the  International 
Decade for Action, “Water for Life”, 2005-2015, which 
promoted the coordinated implementation of the MDGs. 
The  International  Decade  provided  a  strong  impetus 
for various initiatives and efforts at different levels to 
promote access to safe drinking water and sanitation, to 
advance the integrated management of water resources, 
to strengthen and expand water cooperation and to raise 
awareness of water-related challenges.
At the same time, global climate change, increasing 
the 
economic  growth,  higher  population 
levels, 
degradation  of  water  sources  and  the  deteriorating 
quality  of  water  resources  present  the  international 
community  with  additional  extensive  challenges.  The 
reduction  in  water  resources  as  a  result  of  climate 
change  may  impede  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development and aggravate the situation, in particular 
in  arid  and  semi-arid  regions,  which  continue  to 
experience the greatest water shortages.
The  International  Year  of  Water  Cooperation, 
which took place last year in the context of promoting 
the  International  Decade  of  Action,  “Water  for  Life”, 
2005-2015,  underscored  the  need  for  water  resources 
management  to  be  regulated  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle  of  joint  development,  which  provides  for  a 
broad  framework  for  the  harmonization  of  interests 
and  the  strengthening  of  mutual  trust  in  addressing 
water  issues.  On  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  joint 
development, water resources management could ensure 
the sustainable management of water resources, which 
is a key component of sustainable development. In that 
regard, we propose conducting a comprehensive review 
of  the  implementation  of  the  International  Decade 
of  Action,  “Water  for  Life”,  2005-2015,  and  jointly 
developing  specific  recommendations  to  strengthen 
and revitalize the United Nations water agenda.
We believe access to modern and affordable energy 
services to be a key priority for achieving sustainable 
development.  Tajikistan  continues  to  consistently  and 
comprehensively develop its energy potential, focusing 
on  the  integrated  development  of  renewable  sources. 
In addition to the construction of small- and medium-
scale  hydropower  plants,  larger  regional  projects  are 
being  developed.  We  are  also  exploring  opportunities 
for  the  use  of  wind  and  solar  energy.  Through  such 
projects,  Tajikistan  is  significantly  and  specifically 
contributing  to  the  reduction  of  harmful  emissions 
and  to  the  establishment  of  a  solid  foundation  for 
sustainable  development.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  underscore  that  all  those  projects  are 
being  implemented  in  a  transparent  way,  with  due 
consideration  for  the  social,  economic  and  ecological 
aspects of the sustainable development of the country 
and the entire region.
Tajikistan  supports  the  holding  of  the  Ten-Year 
Review  Conference  on  the  Implementation  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action  on  3  to  5  November 
in  Vienna.  We  believe  that  the  new  programme  of 
action  for  the  landlocked  least  developed  countries 
will  provide  additional  opportunities  for  the  further 
16/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
integration of such countries into the world economy. 
We should support and encourage as much as possible 
way  the  efforts  of  that  group  of  countries  to  expand 
and to improve transport and energy infrastructure, the 
diversification of the economy and the streamlining of 
regional and interregional connectivity.
While  the  Organization’s  transformative  agenda 
provides  unique  opportunities,  unfortunately,  it  also 
tends  to  strengthen  the  interlinkage  between  today’s 
threats and challenges. It is in the common interests of 
Member  States  to  consistently  implement  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  to 
effectively  counter  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations, including the use of the Internet for the 
purpose of terror.
Illicit  drug  production  and  drug  trafficking  are 
also serious global issues. In recent decades, Tajikistan 
has  gained  extensive  experience  in  combating  drug 
trafficking.  Under  the  country’s  President,  the  Drug 
Control Agency has been functioning successfully for 
15 years. We have been actively strengthening counter-
narcotics  cooperation  with  neighbouring  States, 
including within regional organizations. At the initiative 
of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, Emomali 
Rahmon, Dushanbe will host a regional anti-narcotics 
conference in 2015, a year before the special session of 
the General Assembly on the world drug problem. The 
proposals  of  the  conference  participants  will  jointly 
help  to  develop  a  new  international  counter-narcotics 
policy.  We  look  forward  to  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations, relevant States and international organizations 
for that conference.
In  that  regard,  we  attach  great  significance  to 
coordinated  and  joint  efforts  with  Afghanistan  in 
combating  drugs,  as  well  as  on  other  issues.  The 
friendly  Islamic  State  of  Afghanistan  is  facing  new 
challenges  and  expects  the  appropriate  support  from 
the  international  community.  We  are  convinced  that 
the  fraternal  Afghan  people,  with  the  support  of  the 
community  of  nations,  will  be  able  to  successfully 
address  the  difficulties  facing  them.  We  believe  that, 
in the current circumstances, the United Nations must 
take  the  lead  in  coordinating  international  efforts  for 
the resolution of the question of Afghanistan.
Tajikistan believes that Afghanistan must be fully 
involved  in  the  multifaceted  regional  cooperation 
process.  It  is  critical  to  fully  include  Afghanistan 
in  the  multifaceted  regional  cooperation  processes. 
The  involvement  of  neighbouring  countries  in  the 
development of Afghanistan, while taking into account 
the regional context in the post-conflict rehabilitation 
of  the  country,  is  key  to  the  success  of  the  ongoing 
efforts of the international community.
In  our  view,  strengthening  lasting  peace  and 
stability 
in  conflict  and  post-conflict  situations 
requires  genuine  assistance  in  addressing  economic 
and  social  issues  and  support  for  efforts  to  restore 
effective  Government  institutions  and  a  sustainable 
basis 
regional 
multilateral  structures  must  actively  participate  in 
strengthening  security  and  stability,  in  implementing 
large-scale infrastructure projects and programmes and 
in  expanding  constructive  and  concrete  cooperation 
and interaction.
long-term  development.  The 
for 
In  early  September,  Dushanbe,  the  capital  of 
Tajikistan, hosted the fourteenth summit of the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization (SCO). The heads of the SCO 
member States called for the strengthening of regional 
cooperation, joint development and mutual prosperity. 
They  adopted  measures  on  the  liberalization  of  trade 
and investment and the improvement of transport and 
communications  systems  and  on  ensuring  food  and 
energy  security.  They  also  addressed  other  urgent 
regional issues of fundamental interest to our people.
without 
strengthening, 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  it  is 
impossible  to  resolve  the  issues  facing  the  General 
Assembly 
reforming, 
rationalizing  and  updating  the  entire  United  Nations 
system.  Comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
should  contribute 
the 
enhancement  of  its  capacity  to  respond  to  the  latest 
developments  in  the  world  in  a  timely  and  adequate 
manner and to meet modern challenges and counteract 
modern threats. The current Assembly session provides 
a unique opportunity for the search of joint coordinated 
ways of addressing pressing issues, which we need take 
full advantage of.
its  strengthening  and 
to 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Tajikistan  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Qohir  Rasulzoda,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
14-54929
17/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
Address by Mr. Kay Rala Xanana Gusmão, 
Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of 
Timor-Leste
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana  Gusmão,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana 
Gusmão, Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of 
Timor-Leste, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Gusmão  (Timor-Leste)  (spoke in Portuguese; 
English text provided by the delegation): In September 
2000,  before  becoming  an  independent  country  and 
while  under  the  administration  of  the  United  Nations 
Transitional  Administration  in  East  Timor,  we  came 
to  the  General  Assembly  as  observers  in  order  to 
familiarize ourselves with the grand designs for the new 
century,  in  the  form  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Twelve  years  after  Timor-Leste  was 
admitted  into  this  prestigious  Organization,  here  we 
are again to take part in a review of what has been done 
and of what has not been done, looking at reasons and 
impacts.
Ultimately  we  want  to  revise  the  Assembly’s 
manner of operation and redefine plans and strategies. 
However,  other  speeches  made  both  here  and  at  the 
Security  Council  open  debate  yesterday  (S/PV.7272) 
show the other face — the more troubling one — of world 
problems, which is the general unquietness of spirit and 
the pressure to use force in order to punish. I therefore 
add  my  voice  to  all  those  who  spoke  before  me  in 
stating my deep concern about the particularly difficult 
time in which the community of nations is living. The 
United  Nations  has  been  the  unassailable  forum  for 
approaching  international  issues  and  continues  to  be 
the hope of millions of people throughout the world.
In  the  year  2000,  the  challenges  came  from  the 
condition  of  extreme  poverty,  educational  deficits, 
enormous scarcity in terms of doctors and medication 
and lack of food production that affected the populations 
of  many  underdeveloped  countries.  Fourteen  years 
later, little has been achieved despite the effort of the 
community  of  nations.  Fragile  or  conflict-affected 
countries  are  the  furthest  from  achieving  the  MDGs. 
Worse still, the challenges of the year 2000 have taken 
on a new path, with an increase in problems related to 
the rise of tensions and conflicts in many parts of the 
world.
The  Organization’s  true  greatness  and  its  global 
leadership ability are measured in difficult times such 
as these, where the search for peaceful solutions through 
more  intense  dialogue  may  well  determine  the  future 
of  humankind.  In  order  to  respond  to  the  challenges, 
we  need  an  Organization  that  operates  effectively. 
We  need  an  Organization  that  is  more  active  and 
less  stereotyped  —  an  Organization  that  strengthens 
cooperation  with  other  organizations,  particularly 
regional ones, and that acts with great respect for the 
sovereignty and the particularities of each State.
Every  action  carried  out  so  far  has  just  been  a 
continuation  of  past  measures  that,  in  most  cases, 
failed to achieve results that can be considered positive. 
We  are  witnessing  an  increasing  loss  of  trust  and  we 
are faced with a crisis of values. More than trying to 
grasp  the  nature  of  the  issues  that  are  causing  us  to 
react,  we  must  seek  to  understand  the  true  causes  of 
the problems. When faced with a threat that does not 
respect  borders  and  that  jeopardizes  our  commitment 
towards  tolerance  and  peace,  it  is  vital  that  we  better 
understand  the  interconnectedness  of  problems,  so  as 
to locate the civility gap that prevents us from talking 
to each other and from finding consensus.
We  have  always  advocated  the  view  that  the  use 
of  military  force  does  not  establish  universal  values 
or  build  democracies.  Misguided  approaches  that 
fail  to  recognize  the  various  and  diverse  elements  of 
threats or, worse still, that are based on contradictions 
and conflicts of interest, only serve to fuel the fire of 
radicalism and extremist actions. Accordingly, we must 
reflect and think things over, because as they stand, we 
are merely sliding into the darkness of war, upholding 
the ancient principle of “an eye for an eye, a tooth for 
a tooth”.
That  is  why  I  reiterate  to  the  General  Assembly 
that  our  collective  efforts  to  preserve  world  peace 
and  security  must  reject  ill-conceived  plans  that  are 
only  motivated  by  the  strategic  interests  of  the  large 
Powers and their will to dominate. Instead, we need a 
plan that is more suited to the reality of each situation 
and  that  provides  a  true  response  to  the  main  causes 
of the current crisis. This common agenda should not 
manipulate  facts  to  produce  collective  reactions,  but 
rather admit past mistakes related to the urge to impose 
18/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
peace  through  war.  Only  by  correcting  our  way  of 
thinking  and  acting  will  we  truly  be  giving  peace  a 
chance.
The  responses  to  the  crises  faced  by  humankind 
should  not  be  weakened  by  the  desire  to  end  war  by 
waging war. Instead, they must be based on the desire 
to build a world of peace, supported by dialogue and by 
an effort — herculean, if need be — to respond to the 
root causes of problems that lead to terrorism, racism, 
extremism  and  intolerance.  When  dozens  of  millions 
of  people  throughout  the  world  suffer  the  horrors  of 
conflict  and  the  countless  abuses  perpetrated  in  this 
century of globalization, the actions by the international 
community  should  give  priority  to  the  establishment 
of  the  best  mechanisms  for  resolving  the  problems 
of  exclusion,  discrimination  and  marginalization  of 
groups, sects and ethnicities.
We must also ensure, from the very start, that the 
societies emerging from the ashes of those conflicts and 
committed to leaving the memories of the past behind 
are entitled to a vital transitional period with respect to 
their behaviours, their ways of thinking and acting, and 
their own internal rules and commitments. Otherwise, 
we will just be sowing the seeds for new conflicts that 
we may end up reaping later on. The war in Iraq, which 
has destroyed the legacy of a centuries-old civilization, 
and the bloody conflicts in Afghanistan, Libya, Syria 
and Ukraine, should make the international community 
draw its conclusions about the international standards 
applied  in  those  contexts.  The  uncertainty  and  the 
bloody  anguish  that  surround  Israel  and  Palestine, 
with  those  two  peoples  destined  to  live  side  by  side, 
should alert us once and for all to the fact that fear and 
insecurity for the future lead to hate, which is the root 
of all evils.
Timor-Leste knows only too well the consequences 
and  the  scars  of  war.  In  addition  to  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Timorese  killed,  we  also  witnessed  the 
near-complete  destruction  of  our  country.  A  State 
born  without  the  ability  to  ensure  and  promote  the 
fundamental  rights  and  liberties  of  its  citizens  is  a 
fragile State that is unable to carry out its main mission.
Immediately after the war, we started to reconcile 
Timorese  society.  We  wanted  to  achieve  peace,  since 
without  peace  we  could  not  feel  free.  We  have  also 
embraced  Indonesia  in  order  to  achieve  true  and 
genuine  reconciliation.  Instead  of  feeding  hatred 
and  vengeance,  we  nurtured  solidarity  and  tolerance 
between our communities. In that manner, we cultivated 
a sound relationship of cooperation between our States 
and our peoples.
Western democracies are prone to paying for costly 
international tribunals for judging genocides. They also 
tend to feel shocked by the human rights violations that 
occur in developing countries. The issue with Indonesia 
cannot  be  seen  only  in  terms  of  the  actions  by  its 
military and its generals. Instead, it must be seen within 
a broader perspective, in which the Governments of the 
Western Powers sold sophisticated weapons like rifles, 
warships, fighters, ammunition, tanks and cannons to 
the Indonesian military, in addition to providing it with 
training, so that it could decimate the Timorese. That is 
why we Timorese and Indonesians preferred instead to 
record the truth of the facts, to close this painful chapter 
in our past and to look to the future, which required and 
continues to require much effort to develop both nations 
and improve the living conditions of both peoples.
With its pluralistic and tolerant society, Indonesia is 
more than a close neighbour. Indeed, it is an inspiration 
for Timor-Leste. Under the wise leadership of President 
Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  we  have  witnessed  the 
establishment of a modern democracy that harmonizes 
progress  with  the  promotion  of  national,  regional 
and  international  peace.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the 
peaceful  transition  to  President  Joko  Widodo  will 
bring more success to that great nation. And I say this 
in a year when Timor-Leste is celebrating the twelfth 
anniversary of its independence.
Mr.  Mnisi  (Swaziland),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
We  have  learned  from  our  weaknesses  and  today 
we are living in an atmosphere of social and political 
peace.  We  are  very  familiar  with  the  challenges  that 
are  inherent  in  the  efforts  of  developing  a  nation  and 
of  building  peace  and  security.  We  are  very  thankful 
for  the  support  that  the  United  Nations  and  all  donor 
countries have provided to Timor-Leste. Nevertheless, 
the years of partnership have also taught us important 
lessons,  which  we  have  been  sharing  with  the  world, 
particularly the fragile States. We are encouraging them 
to take ownership of their processes and be committed 
to the future of their citizens.
We  have  also  started  to  be  more  internationally 
active. We have been working hard within the scope of 
the Group of Seven Plus, a group that brings together 20 
fragile  and  conflict-affected  countries.  In  addition  to 
sharing experiences and knowledge and seeking to put 
14-54929
19/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
the needs of those countries on the global development 
agenda,  we  continue  repeating,  as  many  leaders  have 
been  doing  since  yesterday,  that  without  peace  there 
can be no development. In turn, without development 
there  can  be  no  room  for  democratic  transition,  since 
democracy  is  a  dynamic  process  of  assimilating 
principles  and  values,  rather  than  a  process  to  be 
measured by elections alone.
And that brings us to the subject of the general debate 
at this sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly — the 
post-2015 development agenda. Inequality is increasing 
dangerously  throughout  the  world,  with  wealth  being 
concentrated in the hands of a few to the detriment of 
us  all.  Even  after  the  world  learned  of  the  greed  and 
the corruption of the international financial system that 
led  to  the  global  financial  crisis,  we  are  now  seeing 
how the faltering economic recovery is benefiting only 
those who were responsible for the financial meltdown 
in  the  first  place.  Despite  the  best  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General and his team at the United Nations, 
we are almost in 2015 and know that 2.2 billion people 
throughout the world are already in or are entering the 
ranks of the extreme poor, without even knowing what 
the Millennium Development Goals are.
In that regard, I must draw attention to the incorrect 
practice  on  the  part  of  international  organizations  to 
view  each  of  the  193  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations in the same manner, regardless of whether they 
are large or small, rich or poor, young or in a transitional 
period  or  centuries-old,  developed,  with  emerging 
economies, or underdeveloped. And these development 
indices create scales of values that are both unfair and 
demotivating  to  the  majority  of  the  least  developed 
countries.  Accordingly,  all  of  us  in  attendance  here 
today have a historic opportunity to share our thoughts 
on the enormous challenges ahead of us, so as to outline 
a  truly  transformative  agenda  in  which  no  country  is 
left behind.
However,  the  issue  that  deserves  our  collective 
attention and requires urgent measures is the mitigation 
of the environmental threats that continue to increase and 
are hindering the legitimate perspectives of emerging 
and  developing  countries.  Fortunately,  yesterday’s 
summit  on  climate  change  raised  expectations  in 
relation  to  actual  action  plans  being  implemented 
in  some  countries.  The  plans  will  be  expanded  to 
the  global  level  next  year  in  Paris.  Some  developed 
countries  have  also  committed  to  providing  capital 
to  the  Adaptation  Fund,  which  is  vitally  important  to 
developing  countries.  Ms.  Emilia  Pires,  the  Minister 
of Finance of Timor-Leste, was a member of the high-
level panel that advised the Secretary-General on that 
agenda.
In  2013  and  until  August,  Timor-Leste  had  the 
honour  of  assuming  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-ninth 
session  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific  (ESCAP).  As  such,  we  had  the 
privilege  of  presiding  over  the  session  for  one  year 
and working with ESCAP and the nations of the Asia-
Pacific region in order to achieve progress and improve 
human development. Timor-Leste is committed to that 
noble ideal and to that deserving mission of helping to 
nurture  a  culture  of  peace  in  our  region  through  the 
gradual and persistent reduction of social inequalities 
within each country and among countries.
However,  in  our  region,  including  within  the 
scope  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations, 
countries  are  cooperating  and  promoting  peace, 
which has enabled the rise of the Asian region, led by 
China, and lifted hundreds of millions of people out of 
poverty. However, we cannot but be concerned by the 
developments in the East and South China Sea.
That  brings  us  to  a  key  issue  that  is  of  vital 
importance to Timor-Leste. I am speaking of the need 
to set maritime borders between countries in a clear and 
serious manner, in line with international law. Back in 
2002, when we began to walk our own path in freedom, 
we saw a globalized world in which the arrogance of the 
powerful and the ambition of the rich, who prey upon 
the  inexperience  and  ignorance  of  the  poor  and  the 
weak to act dishonestly and in bad faith, prevailed, as 
a serious insult to universal values. And I must affirm 
that big multinationals have always played an improper 
and  disloyal  role,  acting  dishonestly  and  in  bad  faith 
when dealing with poor countries.
Timor-Leste,  a  young,  small  and  poor  country, 
was  caught  off  guard  in  that  sophisticated  culture  of 
manipulation  and  deceit.  Nevertheless,  we  want  to 
continue believing that international mechanisms, such 
as the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
contribute to justice between nations and understanding 
between peoples, so as to defend sovereign rights and 
the truth.
Today,  those  commitments  are  vital  in  order  to 
start rebuilding trust in the world system and to prevent 
tensions from increasing. The strengthening of dialogue 
and  tolerance  and  the  promotion  of  a  new  diplomacy 
20/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
must  be  translated  from  a  set  of  good  intentions  into 
actual deeds in the international arena. But what is truly 
intriguing  is  the  fact  that  no  decent  country  has  yet 
advocated the need to carry out inquiries to determine 
the  origin  of  the  weapons  used  to  massacre  civilians, 
particularly  those  used  to  kill  women  and  children, 
so  as  to  identify  the  true  beneficiaries  of  the  world 
crisis — those who are selling weapons to uncontrolled 
gangs throughout the world.
rotating  presidency  of 
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  inform  the 
Assembly  that  this  year,  Timor-Leste  has  assumed 
the 
the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP). In that forum, 
we want to use diplomacy and cooperation to nurture 
our  joint  economic  potential  by  making  use  of  our 
regional  ties.  We  also  want  to  spread  a  message  of 
peace,  human  rights  and  social  justice  throughout  all 
the forums in which we are represented.
Guinea-Bissau is a member of that community and 
a  country  with  which  Timor-Leste  has  been  closely 
involved,  including  within  the  scope  of  the  Group  of 
Seven Plus, particularly once Timor-Leste realized that 
Guinea-Bissau had been left to its fate at the mercy of 
international  sanctions.  After  a  devastating  cycle  of 
coups, we felt that the people of Guinea-Bissau needed 
peace and stability, and we saw how their leaders were 
striving to achieve a collective commitment that would 
benefit the people and the country.
Timor-Leste had the honour of providing financial 
support  and  of  sending  a  technical  team  to  provide 
assistance  throughout  the  entire  electoral  process  in 
Guinea-Bissau.  That  process,  which  involved  massive 
democratic  participation,  was  a  success  and  restored 
constitutional order in the country. Still, as we all know, 
elections are but a starting point, and a State without 
the means to ensure the basic needs of its people faces 
countless challenges that can jeopardize the promise of 
peace and national cohesion.
In line with the subject of the debate in the General 
Assembly,  I  must  say  that  it  is  now  urgent  to  create 
the  conditions  to  enable  Guinea-Bissau  to  move  from 
fragility to resilience by supporting its State agencies. 
Guinea-Bissau needs to restore its public administration 
and its State agencies, as well as to reform its defence and 
security sector by modernizing its forces. Furthermore, 
Guinea-Bissau  requires  a  financial  boost  in  order  to 
jump-start its economy.
Within  the  scope  of  the  CPLP,  we  want  to  have 
active  collaboration  with  the  authorities  of  Guinea-
Bissau and with its international partners, namely the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  so  as 
to hold an international conference on aid to Guinea-
Bissau as soon as possible. The conference should start 
by  focusing  on  matters  of  extreme  urgency,  such  as 
salaries,  food,  security,  fuel  and  health.  Timor-Leste 
has already contributed $6 million, which corresponds 
to  one  month  of  public-sector  salaries  in  the  country. 
I also urge every country in attendance to join Timor-
Leste  and  the  CPLP  countries,  in  keeping  with  the 
highest values of international solidarity, in supporting 
the  consolidation  of  the  achievements  made  so  far  by 
the people of Guinea-Bissau. Indeed, that is something 
that will also convey a promise of peace to the entire 
African continent.
And  I  cannot  talk  about  Africa  —  a  continent 
that is already wounded on the inside and ravaged by 
hunger and poverty — without mentioning the scourge 
of the Ebola virus, which is presently challenging the 
international health system itself. That epidemic, which 
is unprecedented in our time, requires a vital and urgent 
commitment  by  the  international  community.  This 
morning in the Ebola campaign I found out that Timor-
Leste  will  provide  $1  million  as  immediate  support 
within the spirit of solidarity that guides the Group of 
Seven Plus, which includes Sierra Leone, Liberia and 
Guinea-Conakry. Next year we will also be allocating 
an equal amount to help fight the epidemic.
The  great  challenge  in  today’s  world  is  liberating 
people  from  fear.  I  am  talking  about  the  fear  of 
difference, insecurity, hunger, poverty and disease, the 
fear of losing power or the fear of becoming a slave to 
power.  In  today’s  unbalanced  and  unequal  world,  we 
need to have the courage to speak a language of trust 
and  tranquillity.  We  need  to  pacify  minds,  encourage 
dialogue  and  free  people  from  doubt  and  feelings  of 
injustice  so  that  they  acquire  greater  tolerance  and 
greater respect for differences and diversity. We need 
to free people from the yoke of poverty and from the 
deplorable conditions in which they are living so as to 
ensure  their  right  to  development.  We  still  have  time 
to write a different and more humane tale for today’s 
generation and future generations.
Timor-Leste wants to make an active contribution 
to  a  better  world,  where  each  country  may  live  in 
tolerance,  harmony  and  tranquillity  within  a  true 
atmosphere of friendship and solidarity that promotes 
14-54929
21/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
peace. Such peace must start in the minds and behaviours 
of the people at every level of society, so that they can 
have a positive influence on the policies of the global 
centres of decision-making. That is the only way for us 
to believe that the baby from the Marshall Islands who 
touched all our hearts two days ago may be certain that 
her future is guaranteed and that she will be able to live 
in those small islands that make up her country.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana  Gusmão,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of 
the Kingdom of Norway
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Erna  Solberg,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, and inviting her to 
address the General Assembly.
Ms. Solberg (Norway): The leaders who gathered 
at  the  United  Nations  Climate  Summit  have  taken 
important  steps  to  mobilize  action  and  ambition  on 
climate  change.  Now  we  need  to  make  sure  that  the 
positive results are followed through and expanded as 
we prepare for an agreement in Paris next year.
When we meet at the General Assembly next year, 
we will adopt the new set of global goals for our common 
future  —  the  sustainable  development  goals  (SDGs). 
They  must  build  on  the  success  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  They  must  be  realistic 
and  ambitious.  Like  the  MDGs,  the  SDGs  should  be 
few  in  number,  concrete  and  measurable.  Meanwhile, 
achieving the eight Millennium Development Goals will 
create a solid foundation for sustainable development. 
As co-chair of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s MDG 
Advocacy Group, I will use every opportunity to help 
build that foundation over the remaining 462 days until 
the deadline.
We  must  accelerate  our  efforts,  and  to  do  so  we 
need  to  enter  into  broad  partnerships  that  include  the 
private sector, civil society and Governments. We need 
to  make  use  of  the  best  possible  innovative  solutions 
and  technologies.  Governments  and  national  political 
leaders must take the lead and ensure local ownership. 
At the same time, we must support the remarkable work 
that many people are doing to implement the MDGs in 
practice.
The  frightening  Ebola  epidemic  in  West  Africa 
reminds  us  of  the  fragility  of  our  progress  and 
development.  We  must  build  health-care  systems  that 
can  support  courageous  and  determined  individuals 
like Josephine Finda Sellu. Ms. Sellu, the deputy nurse 
matron at a Government hospital in Sierra Leone, lost 
15  of  her  nurses  to  Ebola.  Nevertheless,  she  never 
stopped working in that death trap. She is a true fighter 
for the MDGs.
Education, particularly for girls, is the superhighway 
to ending poverty. Poverty, discrimination and the use 
of force often prevent girls from getting the education 
they  are  entitled  to.  Sexual  violence,  abductions  and 
deadly attacks are the most despicable ways in which 
girls’  right  to  education  is  being  violated.  I  condemn 
the  abductions  of  schoolgirls  by  Boko  Haram  in  the 
strongest  possible  terms.  In  the  face  of  terrorists 
threatening  to  deprive  children  of  their  right  to 
education, we should be inspired by Malala Yousafzai. 
Malala  brought  to  light  the  plight  of  the  millions  of 
children around the world who are denied an education. 
If one schoolgirl can take on the Taliban, then surely the 
world community can defeat extremism and terrorism.
Terrorists  and  extremists  are  trying  to  stop  us 
from  educating  children.  Peace  is  vital  for  achieving 
universal  primary  education.  The  same  can  be  said 
for  the  other  MDGs,  not  least  the  goal  on  reducing 
poverty. That is why we must focus on conflict-affected 
countries. A girl growing up in Syria today cannot look 
forward to going to school, because there is no school 
to go to. A pregnant teenage girl in South Sudan will 
not get the maternal health services she needs because 
it  is  too  risky  for  health  workers  to  travel.  From  the 
Security Council Chamber to the modest homes in the 
Swat Valley in Pakistan, we can all help to end poverty 
by promoting peace, but all those different efforts at the 
global, regional, national and local levels must work in 
concert.
22/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
internationally 
It has been 70 years since a group of leaders met 
in  Washington,  D.  C.,  to  discuss  the  creation  of  the 
United  Nations.  One  of  the  most  fundamental  tenets 
of  the  new  world  order  created  in  1945  was  respect 
for 
recognized  borders.  Norway 
condemns Russia’s violations of international law and 
its continuing destabilization of eastern Ukraine. Any 
settlement of the conflict must uphold international law 
and  respect  the  territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine.  The 
ceasefire agreed on 5 September must be respected and 
the  provisions  of  the  agreement  implemented  on  the 
ground. Russia bears a particular responsibility in that 
regard.
The Security Council is mandated to maintain peace 
and security, but has failed to address the situation in 
Syria and Ukraine effectively. We know why. Some of 
the big Powers still believe in outdated ideas of zero-
sum  games  and  spheres  of  influence.  We  are  hopeful 
that the Council will continue to stand united against 
the threat of the terrorist group known as the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL).  We  support  the 
United States initiative and sponsored Security Council 
resolution 2178 (2014) on foreign terrorist fighters. We 
encourage the countries of the region to take a leading 
role in fighting ISIL.
Armed  conflict  and  civil  war  have  created  man-
made  humanitarian  disasters  in  Syria,  Iraq,  South 
Sudan,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  Somalia. 
Earlier this year, Norway hosted a humanitarian donor 
conference  for  South  Sudan,  and  we  will  shortly 
co-host a donor conference to address the aftermath of 
the conflict in Gaza. Donor conferences are important, 
but we need to look beyond the emergencies. We need 
to build on and improve the current system, when we 
meet for the World Humanitarian Summit in 2016. We 
must make sure that humanitarian aid supports not only 
short-term  recovery,  but  also  long-term  development. 
Besides,  long-term  development  cooperation  should 
help  countries  prevent,  prepare  for,  withstand  and 
recover from humanitarian crises in the future.
International  peace,  national  security,  social 
development  and  individual  prosperity  can  best  be 
fostered under a system of good democratic governance 
and  human  rights.  Efforts  to  promote  respect  for 
human rights can help prevent armed conflict and mass 
atrocities.  Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureate  Shirin  Ebadi, 
herself a leading human rights defender, stated in her 
Nobel lecture that:
“[i]f  the  twenty-first  century  wishes  to  free  itself 
from the cycle of violence, acts of terror and war, 
there  is  no  other  way  except  by  understanding 
and  putting  into  practice  every  human  right  for 
all  mankind,  irrespective  of  race,  gender,  faith, 
nationality or social status.”
I agree with that.
Human  rights  is  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the 
United  Nations,  based  on  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  adopted  by  the  Assembly  on 
10  December  1948.  Norway  endorses  the  Secretary-
General’s  “Human  Rights  Up  Front”  initiative,  which 
places  the  protection  of  human  rights  at  the  heart  of 
United  Nations  strategies  and  operational  activities. 
The United Nations needs a strong and assertive human 
rights  pillar.  Only  if  we  fund  the  human  rights  pillar 
properly  can  we  achieve  the  results  that  we  need  and 
want from our world Organization.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is 
first and foremost the responsibility of States. We are, 
however,  facing  large  implementation  gaps.  Attacks, 
threats,  intimidation  and  reprisals  against  human 
rights defenders are increasingly being reported. New 
laws  restricting  freedom  of  expression  and  the  work 
of  civil  society  are  being  adopted.  Discrimination 
is  widespread,  particularly  against  minorities,  such 
as  indigenous  people  and  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and 
transgender persons.
The  rule  of  law  and  civil  liberties  are  also 
fundamental  to  the  development  of  the  private  sector 
and  attracting  investment.  Moreover,  we  know  that 
enabling women to fully enjoy their social and economic 
rights unleashes tremendous economic growth.
We  must  stay  focused  on  accelerating  progress 
towards the MDGs during the remaining 462 days. We 
must  let  ourselves  be  inspired  by  those  who  serve  at 
the front line of those efforts, like Ms. Sellu and other 
doctors and nurses who are risking their lives to treat 
patients with Ebola.
As we set our future development agenda beyond 
2015,  we  must  also  make  some  adjustments.  Peace 
and stability must be included. Climate issues must be 
addressed. Good, democratic governance, with respect 
for the rule of law and human rights, will be crucial for 
achieving  sustainable  development  for  us  all.  And  all 
that means, quite simply, is to be doing the right things 
right.
14-54929
23/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Norway  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Abdelilah Benkirane, Head of 
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr.  Abdelilah  Benkirane,  Head  of  Government 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdelilah  Benkirane, 
Head of Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Benkirane  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,  Sovereign  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  asked  me  to  convey  to  the 
Assembly  his  greetings.  He  also  asked  me  to  deliver 
the  following  statement,  prepared  for  the  sixty-ninth 
session of the General Assembly:
“It gives me great pleasure to take part in the 
sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  for 
which President Kutesa has suggested ‘Delivering 
on  and  implementing  a  transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda’  as  the  central  theme.  That 
is  a  very  relevant  choice,  which  is  fully  in  line 
with  our  Organization’s  priorities,  especially  as 
it  encompasses  economic,  social,  environmental, 
security  and  political  considerations.  I  have 
therefore  decided  to  devote  my  address  to  that 
important  topic,  knowing  that  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco’s  standpoint  regarding  other  items  on 
the  session’s  agenda  will  be  presented  during  the 
General  Assembly  committee  meetings  or  at  the 
ministerial  meetings,  which  will  be  held  on  the 
sidelines of the General Assembly.
“Achieving  sustainable  development  is  one  of 
the  pressing  challenges  facing  humankind.  It  is 
particularly  important,  in  that  respect,  to  strike  a 
balance  between  the  requirements  for  economic 
and  social  progress  and  the  protection  of  the 
environment,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  safeguard 
of  the  rights  of  future  generations,  on  the  other. 
Aware of those critical challenges, we have sought 
to  set  up  a  distinctive  development  model  rooted 
in the culture and in the specific national values of 
the Moroccan people — a model which also takes 
into account the need for positive interaction with 
international principles and objectives in that area.
“Morocco  has  therefore  managed  to  develop 
a  pioneering  national 
for  human 
development, together with ambitious programmes 
in the field of renewable energy — especially solar 
and  wind  power  generation  —  which  are  a  key 
component  of  sustainable  development.  However, 
I  am  not  here  today  to  discuss  my  country’s 
experience or our achievements. I am here to make 
an  appeal  for  developing  countries  to  be  treated 
fairly, especially in Africa, and for the development 
issue to be addressed objectively.
initiative 
“As 
knows, 
the  Assembly 
sustainable 
development is not something that can be achieved 
through  decisions  and  ready-made  prescriptions, 
nor  is  there  a  single  model  in  that  area.  Indeed, 
every country follows a path of its own, taking into 
consideration  its  historical  development,  cultural 
heritage,  human  and  natural  resources,  specific 
political  circumstances,  as  well  as  its  economic 
choices  and  the  obstacles  and  challenges  facing 
it. What applies to the West should not be used as 
the sole criterion for determining the efficiency of 
other  development  models;  nor  should  one  make 
comparisons  between  countries,  however  similar 
their  circumstances  may  be,  even  when  those 
countries belong to the same geographical area.
“As  a  result,  the  first  call  I  should  like  to 
make from the rostrum regards the need to respect 
the  characteristic  values  and  principles  of  every 
country  as  it  builds  its  own  development  model. 
That is particularly true for the developing countries 
that  are  still  suffering  from  the  consequences  of 
colonialism. Colonialism caused severe damage to 
colonized  countries.  For  many  years,  it  hindered 
their development process, exploited their resources, 
as well as the energies of their sons and daughters, 
brought  about  profound  change  in  the  customs 
and  cultures  of  the  peoples  concerned  and  sowed 
the  seeds  not  only  of  division  between  members 
of  the  same  community,  but  also  of  conflict  and 
discord between neighbouring countries. Although 
many  years  have  passed,  the  colonizers  bear  a 
24/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
historical  responsibility  for  the  tough  —  and  at 
times  tragic  —  circumstances  experienced  by 
some countries of the South, particularly in Africa. 
Today,  given  the  adverse  consequences  suffered, 
former  colonial  Powers  have  no  right  to  ask  the 
countries of the South to introduce radical change 
rapidly,  on  the  basis  of  a  frame  of  reference  with 
which  they  are  unfamiliar,  be  it  in  terms  of  their 
cultures, their principles or their values. It is as if 
no development were possible other than through a 
single model: that of the West.
“I  now  turn  to  the  second  appeal  I  would 
like  to  make  to  the  international  community.  We 
need  more  realism  and  wisdom  when  dealing 
with those countries. There should also be greater 
consideration  for  their  circumstances  and  the 
paths  they  choose  to  achieve  democracy  and 
development.  Some  Western  countries  —  which 
asked  for  no  one’s  authorization  to  colonize 
countries  of  the  South  —  instead  of  currently 
providing the necessary assistance to the people of 
those countries, continue to impose on them harsh 
conditions, thereby hampering their ability to make 
progress.  Furthermore,  all  Western  countries  and 
their affiliated institutions do is give lessons, and, 
at  best,  a  few  pieces  of  advice.  As  for  support,  it 
is very limited and is always conditional. What is 
more, they ask the countries of the South to achieve 
stability and development within a very short time 
frame and according to imposed conditions, without 
taking  into  account  those  countries’  development 
processes or their specific national circumstances.
stability  without 
development.  By  the  same  token,  development 
cannot  be  achieved  without  stability.  Both  hinge 
on  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States,  their 
territorial integrity, culture and customs, as well as 
on a dignified life for all their citizens. Moreover, 
the  rating  and  classification  of  those  countries, 
according to current standards, raises a number of 
questions. The rating process has not only shown 
its limitations, but also how far removed it is from 
the  reality  of  the  countries  of  the  South  and  how 
incapable  it  is  of  giving  an  objective  account  of 
the level of human development achieved by those 
countries. As inadequate as it unfortunately is, the 
aid granted is often based on those ratings and their 
quasi-impossible  conditions.  We  therefore  appeal 
for intangible capital to be one of the primary criteria 
for measuring wealth and rating nations. As clearly 
“There 
can 
be 
no 
shown  by  World  Bank  studies,  intangible  capital 
takes into consideration a series of factors related 
to the living conditions of the population, such as 
security,  stability,  human  resources,  institutional 
development  and  the  quality  of  life  and  of  the 
environment,  all  of  which  are  elements  that  have 
a  major  impact  on  crafting  public  policies.  The 
evolution of those countries should not be governed 
by any rating or classification; instead, it should be 
viewed as a historical process based on the positive 
experiences  of  each  country.  Similarly,  every 
country’s characteristics should be respected.
“The  reference  to  the  negative  impact  of 
colonialism does not mean we wish to put any party 
in the dock of a law court. It is simply an earnest 
appeal for justice for the countries of the South and 
a reconsideration of the way they are dealt with and 
supported in their gradual march towards progress. 
In my address in Abidjan, in February, I insisted on 
the fact that Africa did not need humanitarian aid as 
much as it needed mutually beneficial partnerships. 
I also stressed that Africa needed to turn the page 
on  its  past  and  overcome  its  political,  economic 
and social problems — that it needed to rely on its 
own resources to achieve its development. That is 
exactly  what  Morocco  has  sought  to  accomplish 
through  a  series  of  important  agreements  signed 
with  a  number  of  African  sister  nations.  In  that 
respect, I wish to mention in particular the strategic 
agreement  signed  with  Gabon  for  the  production 
of  fertilizers  for  African  markets  in  order  to 
contribute to development and food security on the 
African  continent,  which  is  home  to  a  staggering 
60 per cent of the world’s unexploited land. That is 
an outstanding model of South-South cooperation 
that  reflects  our  capacity  as  African  countries  to 
develop the continent by relying on ourselves and 
investing in the natural resources of our countries.
achieving 
development  does  not  hinge  merely  on  a  set  of 
projects and on funding; nor is underdevelopment 
synonymous with the countries of the South. Indeed, 
the  problem  has  nothing  to  do  with  Africans’ 
attributes  and  skills.  Africans  have  proved  their 
ability  to  produce  and  create  whenever  the  right 
conditions are met, and whenever they are able to rid 
themselves of the oppressive legacy of colonialism. 
Similarly,  development  in  Africa  has  little  to  do 
with the nature of the land or the weather, as harsh 
as  they  may  be  in  some  parts  of  the  continent.  It 
the  Assembly 
knows, 
“As 
14-54929
25/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
is more closely related to a deep-rooted economic 
dependence,  a  lack  of  support  and  funding  and 
the  absence  of  a  sustainable  development  model. 
As a result, providing aid to those countries is not 
an option or an act of generosity so much as it is 
a  necessity  and  a  duty.  What  States  really  need, 
though, is fruitful cooperation, grounded in mutual 
respect, so that they can create the right conditions, 
in  theory  and  in  practice,  to  move  on  to  the  next 
stage of the process of promoting both democracy 
and  development,  without  any  interference  by 
others in their internal affairs. In return, they must 
commit to good governance.
“The world stands at a crossroads today. Either 
the  international  community  supports  developing 
countries  in  their  quest  to  achieve  progress  and 
ensure  security  and  stability,  or  we  shall  all  face 
the  consequences  of  more  conflicts  and  greater 
fanaticism, violence and terrorism — all of which 
feed on feelings of injustice and exclusion — and no 
part of the world will be safe. As people grow more 
acutely aware of the cross-border threats posed by 
the  lack  of  sustainable  and  human  development, 
and as we realize that ours is ultimately a common 
destiny,  I  am  sure  that  eventually  there  will  be  a 
global awakening regarding the need to work for a 
more secure, equitable and humane world.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of Government of 
the Kingdom of Morocco for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Abdelilah  Benkirane,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Natalia  Gherman,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Integration 
of the Republic of Moldova.
Ms.  Gherman  (Republic  of  Moldova):  It  is  with 
great honour and a special sense of responsibility that 
I address the General Assembly today. My country has 
chosen a European future, and that will make Moldova 
stronger  and  more  prosperous.  This  year  we  have 
signed, ratified and are already provisionally applying 
the  new  Association  Agreement  with  the  European 
Union (EU). The Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade 
Area,  an  integral  part  of  the  Agreement,  opens  new 
perspectives  for  Moldova’s  access  to  European  and 
world  markets.  That  will  make  our  economy  more 
competitive, stimulate economic growth and integrate 
Moldova into the mainstream of global trade, with all 
its  benefits.  The  implementation  of  the  Agreement  is 
our  short-term  priority.  Our  next  goal  is  to  apply  for 
full-fledged European Union membership.
Now that we have defined our path and established 
the  framework  for  our  further  development,  we  must 
focus  on  systemic 
improvements.  Strengthening 
democracy and the rule of law, improving our investment 
climate,  developing  rural  areas  and  enhancing  our 
energy  security  —  those  are  the  objectives  to  be 
accomplished in the near term.
We  are  grateful  to  all  our  development  partners 
for  supporting  Moldova’s  modernization  agenda. 
They  have  helped  us  to  strengthen  good  governance, 
promote  justice  and  domestic  reforms,  support  the 
modernization of the agricultural sector and implement 
energy  interconnection  projects.  Just  recently,  a  new 
pipeline  was  completed  that  connects  Moldova  via 
Romania  to  the  European  Union’s  gas  network.  That 
and  other  strategic  projects  connecting  Moldova  to 
Europe, including power grids, roads and bridges, will 
be implemented in coming years.
Our  ambitions,  however,  will  not  be  fulfilled  if 
the benefits of closer association with Europe are not 
fully shared by our citizens living in the Transnistrian 
region  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova.  Just  like  the  rest 
of Moldova, people and businesses in that region want 
the development opportunities that association with the 
European  Union  clearly  brings.  The  Free  Trade  Area 
with  the  European  Union  will  increase  production 
and exports. Jobs, salaries, pensions and benefits will 
therefore rise significantly.
Visa-free  travel  by  all  Moldovan  citizens  to  the 
European Union as of April this year, along with new 
trade and investment opportunities, are just a few real 
examples  that  demonstrate  that  Moldova  is  on  the 
right track. However, alongside the conflict-settlement 
process,  we  will  continue  focusing  on  building 
confidence  among  citizens,  the  private  sector  and  all 
other stakeholders of the entire country.
Against  that  background,  the  resolution  of  the 
Transnistrian conflict and the reintegration of Moldova 
is another top priority for my Government. In our effort 
to  resolve  the  conflict,  our  goal  remains  the  same:  to 
achieve a political settlement based on respect for the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic 
26/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
of  Moldova,  with  a  special  political  status  for  its 
Transnistrian region. All of our international partners 
involved in the settlement process agree on those basic 
principles. And today more than ever before, we need 
their  united  and  proactive  support  to  help  solve  that 
protracted conflict.
Discussions  on  the  political  and  security  aspects 
of  the  conflict  should  be  resumed  without  delay 
within the 5+2 format for negotiations. There are other 
outstanding issues that create additional obstacles to the 
settlement process. The continuing presence of Russia’s 
military  forces  and  ammunition  in  the  Transnistrian 
region, contrary to international commitments and the 
Constitution of the Republic of Moldova, is one of those 
issues. We expect the Russian Federation to finalize the 
withdrawal process without any further delay. We also 
believe that bringing the peacekeeping arrangement in 
line  with  international  standards  by  transforming  the 
current operation into a civilian multinational mission 
would  provide  a  positive  impulse  to  the  settlement 
process.
Moldova  seeks  to  develop  fruitful  relations  with 
all  its  partners  in  the  East  and  West.  In  the  past  five 
years,  my  Government  has  promoted  a  coherent  and 
predictable  foreign-policy  agenda,  which  is  based 
on  our  European 
integration  choice.  Regrettably, 
Moldova  currently  faces  unjustified  trade  restrictions 
on the export of its agricultural products to the Russian 
Federation. Trade relations in the whole Commonwealth 
of Independent States (CIS) region have been affected, 
but  we  nevertheless  hope  that  a  continuing  dialogue 
with  our  Russian  partners,  based  on  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  CIS  rules,  will  contribute  to  the 
resumption of normal trade relations with Russia. We 
are grateful for the assistance of our trading partners, 
particularly  the  European  Union,  for  supporting  the 
Government  in  its  efforts  to  lessen  the  immediate 
impact  of  the  restrictions  on  Moldovan  farmers  and 
producers.  Full  liberalization  of  the  European  Union 
market  for  Moldovan  wines  and  agriculture  products, 
as well as a new free-trade-area agreement with Turkey, 
will contribute to market diversification in the future. 
We will continue to explore new trade partnerships in 
the world.
We  have 
followed  with  great  concern 
the 
developments  in  Ukraine.  A  year  ago,  no  one  could 
have imagined that Ukraine would be plunged into such 
a painful and profound crisis. At the very same time, 
Ukraine, like Moldova, has also established a path for 
European  integration,  and  that  offers  a  real  chance 
for  improving  people’s  well-being  while  facilitating 
reconciliation, reconstruction and security. We believe 
that  the  sovereign  choices  of  all  members  of  the 
international community should be respected.
We  recall  the  need  for  all  members  of  the 
international  community  to  respect  the  provisions  of 
the Charter of the United Nations and international law. 
Like  many  other  countries,  we  will  never  recognize 
the  annexation  of  Crimea.  We  also  encourage  any 
involvement  by 
in 
particular by the United Nations and the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in actions to 
stabilize the situation on the ground. The sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of our neighbour Ukraine must 
be respected.
international  community, 
the 
Today  we  face  new  and  increasingly  complex 
security challenges. Moldova is doing its part to address 
those challenges by making its own contribution to the 
promotion  of  peace,  security  and  stability  in  Europe 
and in the international arena. We have taken concrete 
measures  to  support  United  Nations,  EU  and  NATO 
efforts in that regard. This year, Moldova deployed 41 
soldiers to the NATO-led International Security Force 
in Kosovo operation, under the authority of the Security 
Council, and contributed to the EU Training Mission in 
Mali.  That  represents  a  new  level  of  commitment  by 
Moldova to promoting international peace, security and 
stability.
Moldova 
is  committed 
to  protecting  human 
rights  at  the  national  and  international  levels.  We 
have  made  steady  progress  in  the  implementation  of 
the  relevant  United  Nations  special  procedures  and 
recommendations. Moldova has volunteered to present 
a mid-term evaluation report on the Universal Periodic 
Review recommendations in the area of human rights 
by October.
At the same time, a national strategic programme 
for demographic security until 2025 is currently being 
implemented in the Republic of Moldova. We want to 
become  a  regional  centre  of  excellence  for  the  best 
policies in reproductive health and to contribute to the 
objectives of the United Nations Population Fund.
Moldova also shares its best practices on migration 
and development with other countries in the eastern and 
southern  neighbourhoods  of  the  European  Union.  We 
are actively engaged in the work of the Global Forum 
on Migration and Development.
14-54929
27/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
Moldova  also  supports  the  advancement  of  a 
free  and  independent  society,  including  freedom  of 
expression  on  the  Internet  and  in  other  media.  For 
the  past  three  years,  my  country  has  had  one  of  the 
best  and  most  affordable  Internet  connections  in  the 
world. More than 65 per cent of Moldovans access the 
Internet  at  least  once  a  day.  That  is  why  I  am  proud 
that Moldova was accepted this year as a member of the 
Freedom  Online  Coalition.  Moldova’s  membership  of 
the Open Government Partnership is another important 
contribution to the commitments made with regard to 
the Millennium Development Goals. We are currently 
implementing  a  comprehensive  e-governance  agenda. 
Today,  Moldova  is  one  of  the  first  countries  of  the 
region, and among the first 16 countries in the world, to 
have an open data portal. Just recently, in August, the 
Government of Moldova approved the new Open Data 
Policy in line with the Open Data Charter of the Group 
of Eight.
We  have  taken  one  step  forward  in  agreeing  on 
a  new  post-2015  development  agenda  and  a  new  set 
of  sustainable  development  goals.  My  country  will 
continue  to  contribute  to  that  effort  by  hosting,  in 
February 2015, an event at which we will consolidate 
and endorse the conclusions of the high-level dialogue 
on capacity-building and sustainable development.
reiterate  Moldova’s  commitment 
to 
promoting the core principles of the Organization and 
to assisting the international community in delivering 
on the greatest promise of the United Nations — peace, 
justice, security and development for the people of the 
world.
Let  me 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Pierre  Moukoko  Mbonjo,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Cameroon.
Mr.  Moukoko  Mbonjo  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in 
French): The President of the Republic of Cameroon, His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, has requested me to convey 
to members, the Secretary-General and his fellow staff 
his warm greetings and to deliver his statement before 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
“Next  year,  we  should  adopt  the  post-2015 
development agenda in follow-up to the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Throughout the sixty-
eighth session, our representatives actively worked 
to  develop  new  goals  to  pick  up  the  MDG  torch. 
That  important  task,  since  it  concerns  the  raison 
d’être  of  the  Organization,  is  not  finished.  It  will 
be incumbent upon the President to see it through. 
I am sure that he will succeed. Rest assured of the 
full  and  wholehearted  cooperation  of  my  country 
in that regard.
“For the post-2015 period, the United Nations 
seeks  a  transformative  agenda  that  gives  priority 
to  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger,  as  well 
as  to  sustained  and  inclusive  economic  growth. 
Cameroon fully shares that vision.
“In Cameroon, since 2010, we have implemented 
a  strategy  for  growth  and  employment  whose 
primary purpose is indeed the reduction of poverty. 
The measures taken in that regard aim in particular 
at creating jobs and improving the living conditions 
of the population. The recovery of our economy and 
our public finances, which has fostered the return 
of growth, bodes well for the success of our efforts. 
However, such progress, substantial and significant 
as it is, has not yet enabled us to eradicate poverty. 
In  the  areas  of  education,  health  care,  access  to 
water and electricity, roads, et cetera, there is still 
a long way to go in order to meet the needs of our 
people.
“Most  of 
targeted  by 
the  countries 
the 
MDGs — the developing countries — face similar 
situations.  That  is  why,  like  the  President,  we 
support  a  transformative  post-2015  agenda.  That 
will clearly require some changes to our approach 
to development. It should no longer be seen as an 
external  process  but,  rather,  as  an  expression  of 
the  wishes  and  needs  of  the  target  populations. 
Moreover,  that  is  the  common  position  of  the 
African countries.
“Following a review of the MDGs, it will also 
be  necessary  to  establish  a  follow-up  mechanism 
for  the  goals  of  the  new  system.  Finally,  we  will 
inevitably  have  to  change  the  way  in  which 
development aid is financed in order to improve its 
effectiveness.
“Once  those  conditions  are  met,  we  should 
work on the most important matter of all, namely, 
ensuring  security.  For  it  goes  without  saying  that 
without  security  there  can  be  no  development. 
Take  the  example  of  my  country,  which  is  proud 
of  having  been  a  haven  of  peace  and  stability  for 
decades. To the east, since March 2013, the Central 
African  Republic  has  seen  its  security  situation 
severely  deteriorate:  massacres  and  population 
28/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
displacements  have 
jeopardized  any  hope  of 
development,  not  to  mention  the  flux  of  tens  of 
thousands  of  refugees  towards  Cameroon.  In  the 
far north, attacks by the Boko Haram group, which 
is more concerned about imposing shariah law than 
improving  the  living  conditions  of  populations, 
threaten the integrity of our territory. There, too, the 
lack of security has caused thousands of displaced 
persons to flee to my country. It is estimated that 
in recent months Cameroon has hosted more than 
200,000 refugees from all kinds of origins. It goes 
without  saying  that  my  country  will  continue  to 
honour its tradition of hospitality. However, if that 
situation should continue, there is no guarantee that 
we will have the resources to deal with it.
“The  time  allocated  to  me  does  not  allow 
me  to  mention  the  other  areas  of  tension  and 
conflict,  whether  in  Africa,  the  Middle  East  or 
Eastern Europe. The causes and issues are varied. 
I  will  therefore  limit  myself  to  urging  the  parties 
concerned  to  negotiate  and  to  seek  peaceful 
solutions.
“That  is  the  path  that  Nigeria  and  Cameroon 
chose  to  settle  the  dispute  between  them,  some 
years  ago,  over  the  Bakassi  peninsula.  It  enabled 
us to find a solution conforming with international 
law and, above all, to seal an unfailing friendship 
between  our  two  countries.  Moreover  it  was,  I 
should  stress,  in  harmony  with  the  ideals  of  the 
Charter of our Organization.”
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Mankeur  Ndiaye,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and  for  Senegalese  Living  Abroad  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal.
Mr. Ndiaye (Senegal) (spoke in French): I particularly 
welcome  the  opportunity  today  to  represent  His 
Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic 
of Senegal, before the General Assembly and to deliver 
this intervention on his behalf.
In line with my predecessors, I would like to extend 
a  warm  welcome  to  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa  and 
express  my  delegation’s  particular  pleasure  in  seeing 
him assume the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-ninth session. In reiterating our warm wishes 
for success in fulfilling his important duty, I assure him 
of the unwavering support of my delegation, which, as 
always, will contribute in a constructive manner to the 
full realization of the goals of the United Nations. I also 
pay  warm  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  John  William  Ashe,  whose  dynamism  and  open 
mind  greatly  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  sixty-
eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also  want 
to express, on behalf of the President of Senegal, our 
full  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  tireless  efforts  in  promoting  peace,  security, 
development and human rights.
I  am 
therefore  particularly  pleased  by 
the 
opportunity  to  represent  President  Macky  Sall  and 
to  take  the  opportunity  offered  to  my  delegation  to 
welcome the conclusions of the Open Working Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  those  on  the 
financing of sustainable development for the purpose of 
defining the main pillars of the post-2015 development 
agenda.  The  scope  of  those  challenges,  linked  to  this 
important  moment  for  humankind,  requires  that  our 
States adopt appropriate strategies and measures with 
a view to assuring a good transition and calmly facing 
the expected global transformation.
The  theme  of  this  session  —  “Delivering  on  and 
implementing a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda”  —  provides  an  opportunity  to  deepen  the 
discussion  already  begun  during  the  previous  session 
with  a  view  to  establishing  a  common  vision  on  the 
ways  and  means  to  strengthen  our  commitment  and 
our  actions  for  sustainable  and  inclusive  growth.  It 
is  therefore  our  mission  to  work  towards  inclusive 
development for present and future generations, given 
the many challenges faced by our people, particularly 
in  the  areas  of  education,  health,  the  fight  against 
poverty  and  extreme  poverty,  energy,  climate  change 
and endemic poverty.
With that in mind, the Government of Senegal has 
resolutely  moved  towards  a  model  whose  goal  is  the 
creation of wealth and structural transformation of its 
economy. That is why we have adopted the Emerging 
Senegal Plan, which is, and for the next few years will 
be, the reference point for Senegal’s economic and social 
policies. Emerging Senegal is backed by a progressive 
dynamic that is firmly oriented towards sustainable and 
inclusive development.
In the light of all of the above, we need to understand 
the  importance  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development,  whose  Steering  Committee,  led  by  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Senegal,  deserves  to  be 
further supported and promoted, given its goals relating 
to poverty eradication and infrastructure development 
14-54929
29/31
A/69/PV.11 
25/09/2014
in Africa and the structural transformation of African 
economies. 
At  this  very  moment,  as  we  consider  the  issue 
of  sustainable  development,  the  world  continues  to 
be  confronted  with  terrorism  and  various  crises  and 
conflicts  that  are  just  as  dangerous  for  international 
peace  and  security.  The  Sahel  and  West  Africa  are 
faced  with  recurring  threats  from  terrorist  groups 
whose  criminal  actions  undermine  the  foundations  of 
our society and hinder our development efforts. We are 
pleased  by  the  Security  Council’s  adoption  yesterday 
of  resolution  2178  (2014),  a  strong  resolution  against 
terrorism.
With  regard  to  our  subregion,  our  immediate 
neighbours in general and Guinea-Bissau in particular, 
Senegal would like to welcome the democratic process 
that led to the election of President José Mário Vaz. I urge 
the  international  community  to  support  that  fraternal 
country, with its enormous potential, including through 
a donors round table. 
Similarly, the efforts of the international community 
to  help  stabilize 
the  Central  Africa  region  are 
hampered by the arduous process of the disarmament, 
demobilization  and  reintegration  of  the  main  militias 
and  armed  groups,  while  the  Horn  of  Africa,  on  top 
of terrorism, is still severely affected by the scope of 
conflicts with disastrous humanitarian consequences. 
Another  part  of  Africa  is  suffering  the  effects  of 
a scourge — rather, I should say a catastrophe — and 
that  is  the  haemorrhagic  fever  caused  by  the  Ebola 
virus.  It  certainly  affects  West  Africa  but  is  also  a 
genuine  threat  to  the  entire  world.  We  are  pleased 
by  the  Security  Council’s  adoption  by  consensus  of 
resolution  2177  (2014),  which  was  sponsored  by  134 
countries,  including  Senegal,  and  by  the  high-level 
meeting organized by the Secretary-General this very 
morning, which was a resounding success. The decision 
to  establish  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola 
Emergency  Response  has  reassured  our  country  that 
the  international  community  is  aware  of  the  scourge 
and  that  Ebola  is  not  only  an  African  matter  but  one 
that affects the entire world. 
Senegal, we have set up a secure humanitarian corridor 
as a sign of solidarity with the brotherly countries that 
have been struck by the disease.
Furthermore, concerning another important issue, 
that  of  Western  Sahara,  my  country  reaffirms  its 
commitment to strengthening the historic fraternal ties 
among all of the countries of the Maghreb and Africa 
in general. With that in mind, all forms of separatism 
must  be  discouraged.  In  that  regard,  Senegal  would 
like  to  reiterate  its  support  to  Morocco’s  initiative  to 
grant broad autonomy to Western Sahara in the context 
of  respect  for  its  sovereignty  and  for  the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council,  for  the  sake  of 
durable peace in the region. 
Faced  with  all  of  those  pressing  challenges,  my 
delegation is convinced of the urgent need to establish 
a  holistic  approach  that  can  enhance  the  resilience  of 
countries  facing  recurrent  crises  and  emerging  new 
conflicts.  From  that  perspective,  a  body  such  as  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) has, as part of its 
mandate,  a  significant  role  to  play  in  re-establishing 
peace. Therefore, I would like to acknowledge here the 
distinctive  honour  recently  bestowed  on  Senegal,  via 
the person of Mr. Sidiki Kaba, Minister of Justice, who 
is the single African candidate standing in the election 
for the position of President of the Assembly of States 
Parties to the ICC, scheduled to take place in December.
In  any  event,  Senegal  remains  committed  to  its 
irreversible  path  in  favour  of  peace  and  international 
security. It will continue to provide, with commitment 
and  determination,  its  contribution  to  peacekeeping 
operations,  while  stressing  the  deployment  of  high-
quality personnel, whenever it is requested and within 
its capacities. 
For  a  global  solution  to  crises,  we  believe  that  in 
addition  to  policies  addressing  the  issues,  conditions 
must be conducive to restoring the economic capacities 
of  countries  affected  by  conflict.  It  is  also  urgent  to 
strengthen  cooperation  and  refine  our  prevention 
strategies  to  better  cope  with  the  escalating  violence 
and  new  forms  of  conflict  related  to  the  spread  of 
international terrorism.
That  is  why  Senegal  calls  on  the  international 
community to take swift action to provide the necessary 
support not only to the countries affected by the virus, 
but to those of the entire West African region exposed 
to  the  ravages  of  this  epidemic.  The  sooner  we  take 
action, the better we can control the epidemic. As for 
The thorny issue of the Palestinian conflict comes 
to  mind.  In  that  connection,  Senegal  welcomes  the 
ceasefire of recent months. In its capacity as Chairman 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People, Senegal reiterates its 
call to revive the peace process and put an end to the 
30/31 
14-54929
25/09/2014 
A/69/PV.11
blockade that has been suffocating Gaza since 2007. In 
this International Year of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People, Senegal renews its support for a just, peaceful 
and  negotiated  solution  as  the  only  option  capable 
of  ending  the  conflict  and  achieving  the  creation  of 
a  viable,  independent  Palestinian  State  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, living side by side with Israel 
within secure, internationally recognized borders.
Paradoxically,  the  acuteness  of  the  current  crises 
is symptomatic of the status quo that continues to bog 
down the process of Security Council reform. I hope that 
the upcoming celebration of the seventieth anniversary 
of our common Organization in 2015 will mark the start 
of a reformed and renovated Security Council. Senegal 
commends the French initiative to suspend the right of 
the veto in cases of mass crimes.
Also  during  the  Assembly’s  seventieth  session, 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  will 
be  elected  for  the  2016-2017  term.  As  a  candidate, 
Senegal wishes to request from this rostrum the support 
of  all  Member  States  for  its  election  next  year  to  a 
non-permanent seat on the Council, 25 years after its 
last term on the Council.
The meeting rose at 9.50 p.m.
14-54929
31/31
