United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
41st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 27 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  González 
Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 42 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70/120)
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
giving the floor to speakers in explanation of vote on 
resolution 70/5, which was adopted at the 40th meeting, I 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Ms.  Miguel  (St.  Vincent  and  Grenadines):  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  wholeheartedly  aligns 
itself with the statements made today on behalf of the 
Caribbean  Community,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
and the Group of 77 and China (see A/70/PV.40).
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines enthusiastically 
welcomed  the  executive  decision  of  17  December 
2014  by  United  States  President  Barack  Obama  to 
take  significant  steps  towards  the  normalization  of 
relations between the United States of America and the 
Republic  of  Cuba.  The  Government  of  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  applauds  all  the  steps  taken  to 
date, although the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade remains intact.
My delegation takes the floor today to reiterate that 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  has 
been  and  continues  to  be  a  violation  of  international 
law. It is contrary to the principles and purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations, and Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines  re-emphasizes  its  deeply  held  conviction 
that the ongoing embargo is a flagrant and systematic 
violation of the rights of an entire people. Moreover, the 
embargo against Cuba is not merely a bilateral matter 
between Cuba and the United States of America; due to 
its extraterritorial nature, it also violates the sovereign 
rights of many other States.
As  far  wealthier  nations  and  institutions  have 
looked  askance  at  our  development  struggles  and 
offered  only  dubious  prescriptions  and  platitudes,  the 
Cuban  people  have  rolled  up  their  sleeves  and  given 
freely of themselves in a manner that has touched the 
hearts  and  souls  of  the  Vincentian  people.  No  dollar 
amount can adequately reflect the value of that support, 
solidarity and partnership, for which the Cuban people 
have asked nothing in return. Our appreciation cannot 
be overstated.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines believes that the 
blockade is not only illegal, but morally unsustainable. 
In  the  introduction  to  his  famed  essay  “Common 
Sense”, Thomas Paine wrote,
“a long habit of not thinking a thing wrong, gives it 
a superficial appearance of being right, and raises at 
first a formidable outcry in defence of custom. But 
tumult  soon  subsides.  Time  makes  more  converts 
than reason”.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-33602 (E)
*1533602*
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
And  so  it  is  today  with  respect  to  the  blockade. 
Citizens  across  the  United  States  of  America  are 
joining  the  international  community  by  increasingly 
voicing  their  disapproval  and  calling  for  the  lifting 
of  the  unilateral  sanctions.  For  instance,  the  Cuban-
American  community  in  Miami-Dade  County  is  the 
largest  concentration  of  Cubans  outside  the  island. 
The  community’s  significance  for  local  and  national 
elections  is  frequently  highlighted  during  election 
cycles and its members are often credited, or criticized, 
for  controlling  United  States  policy  towards  Cuba.  A 
2014  poll  of  that  community,  conducted  by  Florida 
International  University,  showed  that  57  per  cent  of 
registered  voters  would  likely  vote  for  a  candidate 
who  supported  replacing  the  embargo  with  a  policy 
increasing support of independent business owners. In 
that same poll, 81 per cent of registered voters stated that 
they would likely vote for a candidate who supported 
replacing the embargo with a policy increasing support 
for human rights. However the polling questions were 
couched, the overwhelming conclusion underscores the 
necessity of ending the blockade.
Opposition to that inhumane policy is now almost 
universal  in  nature.  The  stirring  and  inspiring  words 
of  United  States  President  Barack  Obama’s  inaugural 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  in  2009  remain 
relevant:
“The  choice  is  ours.  We  can  be  remembered 
as the generation that chose to drag the arguments 
of the twentieth century into the twenty-first, and 
that put off hard choices, refused to look ahead, and 
failed  to  keep  pace  because  we  defined  ourselves 
by what we were against instead of what we were 
for; or we can be a generation that chooses to see 
the shoreline beyond the rough waters ahead, that 
comes  together  to  serve  the  common  interests 
of  human  beings,  and  finally  gives  meaning  to 
the  promise  imbedded  in  the  name  given  to  this 
institution  —  the  United  Nations.”  (A/64/PV.3, 
p. 11)
Let  us  put  twentieth-century  arguments  behind 
us.  Let  us  forswear  illegal,  unilateral  action.  Let  us 
instead  look  to  the  future,  keep  pace  with  the  times 
and  heed  the  insistent  and  consistent  voice  of  the 
international community. Resolution 70/5 is not simply 
some ritualistic annual rite of the United Nations. It is 
a matter of life and death for approximately 12 million 
Cubans.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  naturally 
voted in favour of resolution 70/5. However, we believe 
in change and live in hope that there will be no need for 
us to gather her next year to vote on this text yet again.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to welcome Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of Cuba.
The  delegation  of  the  Sudan  aligns  itself  with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement,  Sierra  Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States, South Africa on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China, and Kuwait on behalf of the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation (see A/70/PV.40).
The delegation of the Sudan would like to clarify 
its position after the voting on resolution 70/5, entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”.  We  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution 70/5 on the basis of our conviction that the 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  should  end  and  that  the 
General Assembly should speak as one in condemning 
all  unilateral  coercive  sanctions  that  run  counter  to 
international  law,  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, and free trade and navigation.
A few weeks ago, we adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  paragraph 
30 of which strongly urges Member States
“to  refrain  from  promulgating  and  applying  any 
unilateral  economic,  financial  or  trade  measures 
not  in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the 
Charter of the United Nations that impede the full 
achievement of economic and social development, 
particularly in developing countries”.
That underscores the illegality of the policies imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  the  Cuban 
people,  which  have  continued  for  55  years.  The 
imposition  of  coercive  measures  on  a  people,  in  an 
attempt to influence their national choices and freedom 
regarding their political, economic and social regimes, 
is totally illegal and undemocratic.
The General Assembly has always rejected coercive 
unilateral measures that adversely affect socioeconomic 
development,  especially 
in  developing  countries 
That  was  clearly  voiced  in  the  outcome  document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, entitled “The future we want” (resolution 
66/288, annex). The same position has been reaffirmed 
2/12 
15-33602
27/10/2015 
A/70/PV.41
at  previous  summits  and  ministerial  meetings  of  the 
Group of 77 and China and the Non-Aligned Movement. 
In that regard, we welcome the restoration of diplomatic 
and  political  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America  and  the  removal  of  Cuba  from  the 
list of countries that sponsor terrorism. That is a very 
positive step. We hope to see similar positive steps that 
will culminate in the total lifting of the embargo.
for 
Since  1997,  our  country  and  our  people  have 
suffered  under  a  unilateral  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  that  is  totally  unfair  and  is  renewed 
annually.  It  has  adversely  affected  all  aspects  of 
life,  as  it  restricts  banking  transactions,  trade  and 
opportunities 
international  cooperation  with 
other  States,  and  impacts  our  progress  in  regard  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Our  solidarity 
with  the  people  of  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  Government 
is  therefore  a  reflection  of  our  principled  rejection  of 
that aggressive policy, our deep-rooted solidarity with 
the Cuban people and our empathy with their suffering 
under  an  embargo  that  has  deprived  them  of  quality 
education,  health  care  and  international  cooperation. 
Without a doubt, the poor are the primary victims. We 
commend the position of the Human Rights Council in 
Geneva, which has appointed a Special Rapporteur on 
the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on 
the  enjoyment  of  human  rights.  We  urge  the  General 
Assembly to fully support the Special Rapporteur.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  expresses 
its 
solidarity with Cuba. We underscore the importance for 
all Member States, especially developing countries, to 
show solidarity by rejecting illegal unilateral sanctions 
and  measures  imposed  on  developing  countries.  The 
delegation of the Sudan calls for an end to the embargo 
and sanctions against Cuba, our country and all other 
States and peoples suffering from the same policies.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the 
Republic of South Africa and Malaysia on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
and the Association of Southeast Nations, respectively 
(see A/70/PV.40).
In  an  era  of  interdependence,  cooperation  and 
engagement  are  key  factors  of  peaceful  coexistence 
and  mutual  benefit.  In  that  light,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic welcomes the re-establishment of 
diplomatic relations between the Republic of Cuba and 
the United States of America, which has opened a new 
chapter in relations between the two countries, which 
had  been  stalled  for  decades.  At  the  same  time,  we 
are  concerned  by  the  continuing  unilateral  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba.
While  expressing  its  concern  over  the  embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  hopes  that  the  recent  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations,  which  is  the  first  concrete  step 
towards  genuine  normalization  of  relations  between 
the two countries, will lead to its lifting soon. The Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic believes that such a step 
will mutually benefit both countries, as it will create an 
environment conducive to further enhancing dialogue 
and  cooperation  between  the  two  countries,  which  in 
turn will contribute to improving the well-being of the 
Cuban people and their Government and allow Cuba to 
engage in international trade and economic exchanges 
with  nations  around  the  world,  including  the  United 
States of America.
Ms. Velichko (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Belarus 
associates itself with the statement delivered on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Once again, Belarus emphasizes the unacceptability 
of imposing unilateral coercive measures as a means of 
exerting political and economic pressure on sovereign 
States.  We  deem  such  actions  to  run  counter  to  the 
principal norms of international law, as enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations and the 1970 Declaration 
on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly 
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations.
In  2015,  the  establishment  of  the  post  of  United 
Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  negative  impact 
of  unilateral  coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of 
human rights confirmed the timeliness of this issue and 
the need to review the damaging practice of imposing 
unilateral  coercive  measures  with  a  view  to  their 
subsequent  elimination.  There  are  no  good  unilateral 
coercive  measures.  They  always  only  benefit  the 
political ambitions of the countries that initiate them, 
and never take into account the interests of the States 
against which they are used.
The  financial  and  economic  blockade  of  Cuba 
by  the  United  States  of  America  creates  artificial 
barriers  to  trade  and  hinders  the  development  of  the 
Cuban  economy.  Furthermore,  for  many  years  now 
it  has  infringed  on  the  legitimate  rights  and  interests 
15-33602
3/12
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
of  Cuban  citizens.  Belarus  supports  the  inalienable 
right  of  every  State  to  determine  its  own  model  of 
development.  Any  attempt  by  some  States  to  change 
the  internal  political  system  of  other  States  through 
resort to military, political, economic or other means of 
pressure is unacceptable and counterproductive.
In that connection, Belarus calls for a speedy end 
to  the  economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo 
impsoed by the United States of America against Cuba. 
The full lifting of sanctions could be one of the most 
important practical steps in the budding normalization 
of bilateral relations between the United States and Cuba. 
The need to end these unilateral coercive measures is 
also  reflected  in  the  outcome  document  of  the  2015 
Sustainable  Development  Summit  (resolution  70/1), 
held  in  September,  which  was  adopted  unanimously 
by the States Members of the United Nations. Perhaps 
the  time  has  come  to  take  the  corresponding  steps  to 
implement the outcome document, including by ending 
unilateral coercive measures.
Mr.  Aldahhak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): At the outset, I should like to welcome Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Cuba. On behalf of my country, I reiterate 
my  country’s  full  support  for  him  and  for  the  people 
and the Government of Cuba in dealing with the unjust 
embargo that successive United States Administrations 
have imposed on Cuba for decades.
My  delegation  endorses  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representatives  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China,  
respectively (see A/70/PV.40).
The  decades-long  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  has 
set  an  unacceptable  precedent  that  runs  counter  to 
international law and has left the people and country of 
Cuba vulnerable to untold economic, social and political 
damage.  The  embargo,  which  has  been  unanimously 
rejected,  has  exacerbated  the  hardships  endured  by 
Cuba and led to material losses of over $121 billion to 
date.
the 
For 
twenty-fourth  consecutive  year,  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
confirmed  the  illegal  and  inhumane  nature  of  that 
embargo. The blockade runs counter to the Charter of 
the United Nations, international law, the principles of 
sovereign equality among nations and non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States, numerous human rights 
instruments,  international  humanitarian  law,  global 
trade laws, and tenets of international development.
While  we  recognize  recent  United  States  policies 
towards  Cuba,  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  the  two  countries  and  the  United 
States  President’s  recognition  of  this  rapprochement, 
we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed by the 
United States of America against Cuba since 1959. The 
embargo remains in force despite the successive calls 
by States Members of the Organization, United Nations 
agencies, 
regional  organizations  and  specialized 
agencies to lift the embargo.
Today, 191 countries voted in favour of resolution 
70/5.  Once  again,  the  international  community’s  call 
for  an  immediate  end  to  the  embargo  reaffirms  the 
illegitimate  nature  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba.  The 
vote  against  the  resolution  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power proves the latter’s lack of respect for international 
law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  United 
Nations resolutions.
The Syrian Arab Republic insists that the unilateral 
coercive  measures  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America and the European Union represent a flagrant 
violation  of  international  law  and  amount  to  the 
imposition  of  Western  hegemony  and  political  and 
economic  pressure  on  other  peoples.  Such  measures 
seek  to  subjugate  and  weaken  Member  States,  run 
counter to the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  constitute  interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  Member  States,  and  reflect  the  collective  punitive 
policies  practiced  by  the  imposing  countries.  We  all 
know the devastating effects of the embargoes imposed 
against  Iraq  and  Libya  on  the  civilians  of  those 
countries.
My  country  reiterates  its  condemnation  of  the 
coercive  measures  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  and  the  European  Union  against  the  Syrian 
people.  We  emphasize  the  negative  effects  of  such 
illegitimate  unilateral  measures,  which  prevent 
Syrians  from  meeting  their  basic  daily  needs;  from 
gaining  access  to  food,  education,  health  care,  fuel, 
agricultural equipment, air and ground transportation; 
and  from  maintaining  aircraft  and  communications 
equipment,  among  other  deprivations.  Such  collective 
measures violate the human rights of the Syrian people 
and  negatively  impact  the  Syrian  economy.  Winter  is 
coming  and  millions  of  Syrians  will  have  no  heating 
fuel  as  a  result  of  the  coercive  measures  imposed  by 
4/12 
15-33602
27/10/2015 
A/70/PV.41
those who claim to care for the well-being of the Syrian 
people.
We  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  decision  of  certain 
States  to  impose  unilateral  coercive  measures  is  in 
violation of resolution 68/200, on unilateral economic 
measures as a means of political and economic coercion 
against  developing  countries,  and  resolution  69/180,  
on  human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive  measures. 
In  those  resolutions,  the  General  Assembly  reiterates 
its  condemnation  and  rejection  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures  that  infringe  on  the  rights  enumerated  in 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other 
human rights instruments.
The  General  Assembly  should  take  the  measures 
necessary to end the embargo and the imposition of all 
unfair unilateral coercive measures and hostile policies 
by  some  Members  of  the  Organization.  Such  policies 
run  counter  to  international  law,  reflect  aggression 
and violate the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations. Accordingly, my country wishes to see an end 
to  the  embargo  against  Cuba  and  unilateral,  coercive 
measures imposed on other Member States, including 
my country, Syria.
We  hope  that  the  voice  of  the  international 
community,  which  is  expressed  through  the  General 
Assembly and other international bodies, will be heard 
by the United States of America and that the legislative 
powers  of  the  United  States  will  comply  with  the 
provisions  of  international  law.  My  country  therefore 
voted in favour of resolution 70/5.
Mr.  Jaime  Calderón  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Cuba, His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
who is with us today.
El  Salvador  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Ecuador on behalf of the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
and of South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/70/PV.40).
I  should  like  to  make  the  following  statement  in 
explanation of my country’s vote in favour of resolution 
70/5,  on 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.
the  necessity  of  ending 
The  Government  of  El  Salvador  respects  the 
purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  recalls  that  they  remain 
valid and should be respected by all States during the 
process  of  change  that  we  have  launched.  Currently, 
the members of the international community have been 
both witnesses and active proponents of major changes. 
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Organization, this a decisive time for us in the light of 
the new opportunities and global challenges we face as 
we define a new paradigm of development, cooperation 
and  solidarity  among  the  peoples  of  the  world.  We 
entered a new phase in the future of humankind when we 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1).
Against  that  backdrop,  my  country  welcomes  the 
important  step  taken  by  the  President  of  Cuba,  Raúl 
Castro, and the President of the United States, Barack 
Obama,  in  opening  a  new  chapter  in  history  with  the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
two countries. We believe it important to cite a statement 
made by President Obama at a press conference, to the 
effect  that  we  cannot  keep  doing  the  same  thing  for 
50 years and expect a different result. This statement 
clearly  charts  a  new  path  in  the  relationship  between 
the two countries and with respect to the embargo that 
affects  the  Cuban  people.  As  noted  by  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  El  Salvador  at  the  most  recent 
general debate,
and 
embargo 
financial 
“we should also mention the process of detente that 
has begun between Cuba and the United States of 
America, a process that has had a positive impact 
not only on the relations between the two countries, 
but  also  on  the  continent  as  a  whole.  El  Salvador 
is pleased with the re-establishment of diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America  and  trusts  that  in  the  current  favourable 
climate,  the  will  expressed  to  lift  the  economic, 
commercial 
against 
Cuba  will  become  a  reality  as  soon  as  possible” 
(A/70/PV.28, p. 3).
Although  the  regulations  issued  by  the  United 
States  Departments  of  the  Treasury  and  Commerce 
on  15  January  are  a  step  in  the  right  direction  on 
such  issues  as  the  reopening  of  embassies,  visiting 
delegations,  a  bilateral  relations  committee,  travel 
to  Cuba,  telecommunications  and  remittances,  such 
measures  are  limited  in  scope  and  will  change  only 
certain aspects of the implementation of the embargo. 
However, the economic embargo remains in effect, and 
actions such as the 42 multi-million-dollar fines against 
United  States  and  foreign  companies  for  conducting 
15-33602
5/12
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
financial 
transactions  with  Cuba  generate  major 
economic and commercial losses for the Government of 
Cuba,  those  businesses  themselves  and,  by  extension, 
the Cuban people.
El  Salvador  calls  for  an  end  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  not 
only  because  it  is  unjust  and  illegal  but  because  it  is 
not  supported  by  the  international  community.  In 
that  context,  El  Salvador  reiterates  the  importance  of 
complying  with  the  provisions  of  resolution  47/19,  of 
24 November 1992, and all other resolutions that have 
been  adopted  every  year  since  then  by  the  General 
Assembly on this item, and which emphasize the need 
to  end  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against Cuba.
El  Salvador,  a  country  committed  to  working  for 
peaceful  coexistence  among  nations,  fully  supports 
and voted in favour of the resolution on the necessity 
of  ending  the  economic  embargo  against  Cuba.  To 
conclude,  we  reiterate  the  following  three  aspirations 
of our people and Government. We hope, first, that the 
Government of the United States will lift the embargo; 
secondly,  that  the  dialogue  between  Cuba  and  the 
United  States  will  continue;  and,  lastly,  that  after  so 
many years, we in the Americas can sit around the same 
table without anyone being excluded.
Mr. Mangisi (Tonga): At the outset, we would like 
to acknowledge the presence of the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
I take the floor to explain my delegation’s position 
on  resolution  70/5,  adopted  earlier  today  by  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States.  Of  such 
importance  is  that  matter  for  my  delegation  that  we 
have  decided  for  the  first  time  to  take  the  floor  and 
speak to the issue, further to our demonstrated support 
in previous years by way of votes in favour.
After  more  than  two  decades  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  consideration  of  this  agenda  item,  the 
resolution  adopted  earlier  reflects  significant  changes 
in  the  bilateral  circumstances  between  Cuba  and 
the  United  States.  We  join  those  welcoming  the 
re-establishment of diplomatic relations between those 
countries,  and  the  steps  that  have  been  taken  that 
positively  modify  the  embargo.  Such  initial  positive 
steps  towards  the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations 
have  thus  far  stopped  short  of  lifting  the  blockade, 
which presently remains in effect.
For  decades,  the  embargo  has  caused  significant 
economic  damage,  amounting  to  billions  of  dollars, 
and resulted in immeasurable suffering for the people 
of  Cuba,  not  to  mention  the  difficulties  that  our  own 
nationals  themselves  are  facing  as  young  university 
students  in  Cuba  because  of  the  current  adverse 
effects  of  the  embargo.  As  the  longest-lasting  system 
of  unilateral  sanctions  ever  applied  to  one  country,  it 
unjustly hinders the economic and social development 
of the Cuban people. Moreover, the embargo is contrary 
to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  therefore  join  the  call  to  end  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba.
Finally, the Kingdom of Tonga adheres fully to the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  accepted  under  international  law, 
in particular the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States,  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  their 
internal affairs, and the freedom of international trade 
and, of course, navigation. We therefore voted in favour 
of  resolution  70/5,  to  support  the  right  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  enjoy  full  freedom  in  their  economic  and 
social development.
Mr. Silwamba (Zambia): Zambia aligns itself with 
the statements delivered by the representatives of Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the Group of African States, South 
Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, respectively (see A/70/PV.40).
My delegation welcomes His Excellency Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, to this meeting.
My delegation takes note of the Secretary-General’s 
report (A/70/120) and the views expressed therein. As 
a nation, we have been part of the chorus of supporters 
of  Cuba  by  voting  and  speaking  in  favour  of  similar 
resolutions for the more than two decades during which 
the General Assembly has considered this item. Today, 
we  again  reaffirmed  our  full  support  and  voted  in 
favour of resolution 70/5.
Zambia  continues  to  be  greatly  concerned  that, 
after 53 years of embargo and 23 consecutive General 
Assembly  resolutions,  the  sanctions  are  still  in  place. 
It  remains  Zambia’s  concern  that  numerous  laws  and 
regulations are still in existence. Their effect is often 
extraterritorial  in  nature  and  they  often  affect  the 
sovereignty of third States, together with the legitimate 
6/12 
15-33602
27/10/2015 
A/70/PV.41
interests of entities or persons under their jurisdiction. 
Cuba continues to face severe restrictions in its ability 
to  raise  the  necessary  developmental  funds  on  the 
international markets.
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  Let  me  first  recognize 
and express our appreciation of the presence of Foreign 
Minister  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla  on 
this  very 
important occasion.
We  are  not  oblivious  to  the  developments  on  the 
ground,  and  we  commend  the  diplomatic  milestones 
that  have  resulted  in  improved  relations  between  the 
United States of America and Cuba. Zambia welcomes 
the  decision  by  His  Excellency  President  Raul  Castro 
of Cuba and His Excellency President Barack Obama of 
the United States of America to re-establish diplomatic 
relations  in  December  2014.  In  addition,  Zambia 
welcomes  other  subsequent  measures  undertaken  by 
the United States, including the decision on 16 January 
to amend the Cuban Assets Control Regulation and the 
Export  Administration  Regulations.  Zambia  further 
welcomes  the  latter’s  decision  to  take  measures  to 
remove Cuba from the list of State sponsors of terrorism, 
as was announced on 14 April.
On the basis of all this, my delegation believes that 
a new dawn is before us and that a return to normalcy 
in the relations between the United States and Cuba is 
now  on  the  horizon.  We  need  to  support  the  ongoing 
efforts so that the momentum created thus far is not lost. 
No one should be allowed to squander the momentum 
that  has  already  been  built.  We  acknowledge  that  the 
unilateral sanctions against Cuba are still in place. The 
people  of  that  great  country  continue  to  experience 
the effects of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo against their country. The right to influence 
their  own  development  path  has  been  severely 
restricted,  with  access  for  sourcing 
international 
technology  and  expertise  in  critical  sectors  —  such 
as  finance,  technology,  education  and  health,  among 
others — being greatly curtailed.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to reassure the 
Cuban people of Zambia’s continued solidarity on that 
matter.  We  equally  commend  the  Government  of  the 
United States of America for the positive strides taken 
in the recent past. We will support all efforts aimed at 
restoring  the  relations  between  the  two  nations.  It  is 
for that reason that we continue to support the United 
Nations call for lifting the economic embargo on Cuba
Mr.  Amihai  Bivas  (Israel):  Let  me  just  say 
that  Israel  follows  with  great  interest  the  renewal  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba and clarify that our vote is an expression of our 
special relations with the United States.
The  delegation  of  Indonesia  associates  itself  with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  South 
Africa,  Malaysia  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, respectively (see A/70/PV.40).
Faithful to its history and to its national character, 
Indonesia is a country committed to peace, justice and 
equality. For that reason, Indonesia stands before this 
forum to once again declare its unrelenting support for 
an end to the embargo against Cuba. We must without 
delay overcome that relic of another time, for it has no 
raison d’être in the new millennium that we are building 
together. I shall offer four valid reasons for ending it.
First,  it  goes  against  the  very  principles  of 
the 
sovereign  equality  of  all  Member  States, 
non-intervention and non-interference in one another’s 
domestic  affairs,  as  stipulated  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  Charter  clearly  states  the  need 
for  Member  States  to  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use 
of  force  against  the  territorial  integrity  or  political 
independence  of  any  State.  The  continued  imposition 
of  an  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against Cuba clearly violates the Charter. All Member 
States  are  equal.  None  is  above  the  others,  as  we  are 
bound  by  the  principles  of  friendly  relations  among 
nations. Here at the United Nations, dialogue has always 
been  the  norm  put  forward  by  any  civilized  nation  to 
resolve differences. There should be cooperation rather 
than confrontation.
Secondly, the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba has caused significant 
economic  and  social  hardship  that  can  hardly  be 
justified  on  humanitarian  grounds.  It  has  caused 
years of deprivation for the people of Cuba, especially 
for  such  vulnerable  groups  as  children,  women  and 
older persons. That is a great burden for a developing 
country,  whose  people  would  benefit  tremendously 
from the good faith of the developed countries. We have 
also  been  discussing  an  ambitious  vision  to  eradicate 
poverty  through  an  inclusive  post-2015  development 
agenda.  It  will  only  be  inclusive  if  those  who  are  the 
most  vulnerable,  including  the  people  of  Cuba,  are 
involved  in  the  process  and  able  to  reap  the  benefits 
15-33602
7/12
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
of  development  without  any  constraint  on  the  part  of 
foreign hands.
Thirdly, the sanctions constitute a counterproductive 
policy  that  has  curbed  opportunities  and  economic 
benefits  for  Cuba  and  other  countries,  including 
countries that maintain economic and commercial ties 
with  Cuba.  In  that  process,  the  sovereignty  of  other 
States  and  their  jurisdiction  over  their  own  national 
legislation  have  been  encroached  upon.  Cuba  is  not 
the  only  victim.  We,  the  developing  countries,  trade 
partners and financial investors are also the victims of 
that undeserved embargo.
Fourthly,  our  regional  experience  in  South-East 
Asia  has  raised  immense  confidence  that  engagement 
will do more than isolation to advance the noble causes 
to  which  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
ascribe.  The  time  is  ripe  for  relations  between  the 
parties involved to be transformed through constructive 
engagement. Cuba should be able to exercise its right 
to develop and grow, unhindered by restrictions to its 
trade and other business activities.
While it is true that some meaningful progress has 
occurred  in  recent  times,  such  as  the  easing  of  travel 
restrictions  to  Cuba  and  the  removal  of  obstacles  to 
transferring  remittances,  the  preferred  outcome  is  for 
the  embargo  to  be  lifted  completely.  Indonesia  urges 
States  to  renounce  applying  laws  or  measures  of  an 
extraterritorial  nature  that  affect  the  sovereignty  of 
other States, the lawful interests of their subjects or of 
other persons under their jurisdiction, and freedom of 
trade and navigation.
In the light of all of the considerations I mentioned 
earlier,  Indonesia  continues  to  support  this  resolution 
and reiterates the call for the immediate cessation of the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.
Finally,  our  message  is  simple.  Our  message  is 
clear. This embargo has to end, and end now.
Mr.  Lucas  (Angola):  Let  me  start  by  warmly 
welcoming  the  Cuban  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, to this meeting.
on  behalf  of  the  African  Group;  the  representative  of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries; and by the representative of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Angola  has  been  following  closely  the  process 
that led to the re-establishment of diplomatic relations 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba,  which  we 
warmly welcome. However, although President Obama 
performed  a  historic  act  of  justice,  notifying  the 
American Congress of his decision to remove Cuba from 
the  list  of  States  sponsors  of  terrorism,  this  does  not 
yet imply relief from the prohibitions and restrictions 
imposed  by  the  laws  and  regulations  relating  to  the 
blockade against Cuba.
In that context, Angola reiterates the urgent need to 
end the economic, financial and commercial embargo on 
Cuba, which infringes on the right of the Cuban people 
to  development  and  is  contrary  to  the  principles  and 
rules  of  international  law.  The  embargo  also  violates 
the human rights of the Cuban people, the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
rules of free trade.
Angola  welcomes 
the  desire  expressed  by 
President  Barack  Obama  to  work  towards  ending  the 
blockade  against  Cuba  and  encourages  both  parties 
to  work  towards  the  full  normalization  of  relations, 
including economic relations, as soon as possible. The 
blockade against Cuba is unilateral and the most unjust, 
severe and prolonged sanctions regime ever enforced.
According  to  the  report  submitted  by  Cuba  to 
the  General  Assembly  (see  A/70/120),  the  economic 
damage  inflicted  on  the  Cuban  people  amounts,  at 
current  prices,  to  more  than  $121  million.  Angola 
regrets  the  fact  that  the  American  Congress  has  not 
yet  approved  any  of  the  bills  aimed  at  eliminating  at 
least some of the most conspicuous measures imposed 
by  the  embargo.  On  the  contrary,  about  10  legislative 
initiatives  have  been  presented  to  Congress  with  the 
purpose  of  strengthening  fundamental  aspects  of  the 
blockade policy, thus preventing President Obama from 
passing new executive measures or implementing those 
that have already been passed.
the  necessity  of  ending 
The  Republic  of  Angola  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  70/5,  on 
the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba. In this 
explanation  of  vote,  Angola  associates  itself  with  the 
statements made by the representative of Sierra Leone 
The embargo affects the material, psychological and 
spiritual well-being of the Cuban people and imposes 
severe obstacles on their economic, cultural and social 
development,  with  a  significant  negative  impact  on 
sensitive  sectors  such  as  health  care,  education,  food 
and nutrition. It is an illegal and unfair act.
8/12 
15-33602
27/10/2015 
A/70/PV.41
Angola notes with concern the continuation of the 
extraterritorial  nature  of  the  embargo,  notably  in  the 
banking and financial areas. It is unfortunate that the 
United States maintains this position despite the visible 
progress achieved by Cuba in various areas, in which it 
has helped many countries in need. A recent example 
of Cuba’s solidarity was its valuable contribution to the 
global efforts to combat the Ebola epidemic affecting 
the  West  African  region  by  sending  several  hundred 
health  professionals,  with  outstanding  results,  in  the 
fight for the eradication of the disease.
Angola recognizes and encourages once again the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to  put  an  end  to  the 
economic, trade and financial embargo imposed by the 
United States of America against Cuba, which has been 
enforced  for  more  than  half  a  century.  We  therefore 
call on the international community to intensify efforts 
to  promote  a  constructive  and  transparent  dialogue 
between the two countries, with a view to achieving a 
definitive solution to this problem.
Additionally,  we  encourage  the  United  States  to 
join the overwhelming majority of States Members of 
the United Nations, which have, through numerous and 
relevant  resolutions,  called  persistently  for  an  end  to 
the embargo, with a view to providing an environment 
conducive  to  fruitful  cooperation  between  the  two 
countries and Latin America in general.
Mr. Shava (Zimbabwe): I should like to recognize 
the presence of the Cuban Minister for Foreign Affairs 
among us today and to thank him for his clear statement 
on the ongoing diplomatic dialogue between his country 
and the United States.
Zimbabwe aligns itself with the statements delivered 
by  the  representative  of  South  Africa,  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China;  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement; and the representative of Sierra Leone, on 
behalf of the African Group (see A/70/PV.40).
Allow  me  to  make  a  few  remarks  in  my  national 
capacity.
For the past 22 years, the Assembly has consistently 
condemned  and  opposed  the  continuation  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  that 
was  unilaterally  imposed  against  the  people  and  the 
Republic of Cuba by the United States of America. The 
Assembly has consistently demanded the unconditional 
lifting  of  the  embargo  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba, 
which  has  caused  enormous  human  suffering  and 
economic  damage  to  the  people  of  Cuba.  We  believe 
that its continuation is indefensible and unjustified.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against  Cuba  constitutes  the  single  largest  principal 
obstacle  to  Cuba’s  trade  and  economic  development 
potential.  Zimbabwe  shares  the  view  of  the  greater 
majority  of  the  members  of  the  Assembly  that  the 
embargo  constitutes  a  flagrant  violation  of 
the 
fundamental norms of international law and is contrary 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, as well as the norms and principles governing 
peaceful  relations  among  States.  It  also  violates  the 
human  rights  of  the  people  of  Cuba  by  undermining 
their access to various social services.
its 
commitment 
Despite  the  burden  of  the  embargo,  Cuba  has 
demonstrated 
development 
cooperation by assisting many countries in the areas of 
education,  health,  humanitarian  assistance  and  so  on. 
Most recently, it contributed significantly to combating 
the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.
to 
Zimbabwe joins other members of the Assembly in 
calling  for  an  immediate  and  unconditional  lifting  of 
the  embargo  in  order  to  allow  the  people  of  Cuba  to 
freely chart their own economic and social destiny, like 
any other sovereign State. We also join other Member 
States  in  rejecting  the  promulgation  and  application 
of  national  laws  with  extraterritorial  impact,  and  all 
other coercive economic measures, including unilateral 
sanctions,  that  mainly  target  developing  countries 
seeking to assert their sovereignty. As a victim of such 
ill-conceived, illegal and immoral economic sanctions, 
Zimbabwe fully understands their impact and therefore 
calls  on  Member  States  to  refrain  from  promulgating 
and applying such laws and measures.
While we commend the United States of America’s 
restoration of full diplomatic relations with the Republic 
of  Cuba,  as  well  as  its  loosening  of  some  aspects  of 
the embargo, Zimbabwe is of the view that lifting the 
embargo altogether and immediately is essential to the 
full normalization of relations. We believe it will have 
mutual  benefits  for  both  countries  in  the  form  of  the 
creation of new business and trade opportunities.
In  conclusion, 
the  outcome  of 
today’s  vote 
on  resolution  70/5  clearly  demonstrates 
the 
international community is unanimous in its desire for 
an immediate end to the United States trade embargo 
on Cuba. In anticipation of the lifting of the embargo 
and  the  full  normalization  of  bilateral  relations,  we 
that 
15-33602
9/12
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
hope this is the last time that the Assembly has to deal 
with this agenda item.
Mr.  Berridge  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  The 
Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes to register 
its  support  for  today’s  adoption  of  resolution  70/5, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”.
At the outset, Saint Kitts and Nevis associates itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  by  the  representatives 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean Community and of Ecuador on behalf of the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(see A/70/PV.40).
Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the re-establishment 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  the  Republic  of  Cuba 
and  the  United  States.  That  was  indeed  a  historic 
moment,  ushering  in  a  new  era  in  bilateral  relations 
between the two countries, and it holds much promise 
for  the  wider  hemispheric  region.  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis  regrets,  however,  that  the  blockade  of  Cuba 
has  remained  in  place.  Stiff  fines  are  being  imposed 
on  financial  institutions  and  other  establishments 
that  engage  in  business  transactions  with  Cuba.  That 
unilateral policy has imposed indiscriminate hardship 
on the people of Cuba and continues to adversely affect 
a  wide  gamut  of  sectors  in  the  Cuban  economy,  from 
agriculture,  medicine  and  education  to  sports  and 
culture,  energy,  mining,  tourism  and  transport.  It  has 
also  created  impediments  to  Cuba’s  socioeconomic 
development.
It is evident that even with the recent rapprochement 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba,  the  persistence 
of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
has  had  untold  repercussions  for  the  development  of 
the  Cuban  economy,  to  the  detriment  of  the  Cuban 
populace. While the people of Cuba have been forced to 
be creative in order to circumvent the negative impact 
of  the  embargo,  the  economic  fallout  has  been  real. 
Billions  of  dollars  have  been  either  diverted  or  spent 
on  sourcing  supplies  from  other  countries,  thereby 
increasing the transaction value of the goods involved.
In  spite  of  the  hardship  experienced  by  the 
Government  and  people  of  Cuba,  we  have  witnessed 
a  strong  demonstration  of  goodwill  and  generosity 
towards  its  sister  countries  in  the  Caribbean  and 
beyond. Indeed, Cuba has risen to challenges in time of 
need, lending expertise and sharing its scarce resources 
in  order  to  assist  humankind.  The  Government  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis would like to place on record its 
appreciation for the support Cuba has provided in the 
areas  of  tertiary  education,  sports,  culture,  medicine, 
health care and agriculture.
It  is  indeed  regrettable  that  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  Cuba  have  suffered  as  a  result  of  this 
unilateral  measure  imposed  by  the  United  States 
for  more  than  four  decades.  We  join  the  rest  of  the 
international  community  in  calling  for  an  immediate 
end to the embargo against the people of Cuba, which 
has had such deleterious effects on its community. We 
also  urge  the  United  States  to  accelerate  the  steps  it 
has already taken to formally normalize relations with 
Cuba. In doing so, the powers that be would effectively 
unlock  the  vast  potential  that  is  associated  with  free 
and fair trade.
for  Sustainable  Development 
This  is  a  momentous  period  for  the  international 
community.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  United  Nations 
Summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development 
agenda,  and  our  leaders’  commitment  to  the  2030 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1),  ushering  in  a  paradigm  shift  in  development 
and  engagement,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  an  end  to 
this  unilateral  action,  which  runs  counter  to  that 
endeavour.  It  is  therefore  an  opportune  time  for  this 
vestige  of  a  bygone  era  to  be  done  away  with.  With 
that accomplished, we are confident that the people of 
Cuba will have a better chance to achieve the Goals and 
targets established within the three dimensions of the 
Sustainable Development Agenda by 2030.
Mr. Tin (Myanmar): My delegation would first like 
to join others in welcoming the presence of Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, at today’s important meeting.
My  delegation  has  taken  the  floor  to  explain 
its  position  on  resolution  70/5,  entitled  “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba”,  adopted  today  by  an  overwhelming 
majority of Member States.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  South  Africa  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and of Malaysia on behalf of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (see A/70/PV.40).
10/12 
15-33602
27/10/2015 
A/70/PV.41
Myanmar  voted  in  favour  of  today’s  resolution  in 
order  to  demonstrate  once  again  its  firm  opposition 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba.  Since  the  first  time  this  text  was 
introduced in the General Assembly in 1992, a growing 
number  of  Member  States  have  shown  their  strong 
support for and solidarity with the Government and the 
people of Cuba by voting in its favour. My delegation 
also joins the international community in calling for an 
end to the embargo, which has resulted in huge material 
losses and economic damage to the Cuban people. As a 
country that has gone through similar experiences for 
decades, Myanmar fully understands the degree of loss 
and  suffering  that  sanctions  cause  the  people.  In  the 
end, they are counterproductive, since they affect only 
the innocent people of the countries concerned.
As  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
Myanmar  has  steadfastly  adhered  to  its  principled 
position of opposition to the use of unilateral economic 
and trade sanctions. Sanctions are also contrary to the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as well 
as those of international law and good neighbourliness. 
Myanmar has always maintained that relations between 
members  of  the  international  community  should  be 
based on mutual respect and that differences should be 
resolved through dialogue.
Myanmar  welcomes  the  recent  positive  steps 
the  United  States  and  Cuba  have  taken  to  normalize 
their  bilateral  relations.  We  also  welcome  the  recent 
reopening of their respective embassies in Washington 
and Havana. We hope that such efforts will lead to the 
lifting of the embargo on Cuba as soon as possible, which 
would not only benefit the peoples of both countries but 
would  also  contribute  to  peace  and  prosperity  in  the 
region as a whole. For that reason, Myanmar once again 
voted in favour of the resolution.
Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname): I would first like to 
welcome the presence here this morning and afternoon 
of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and to thank him 
for his statement (see A/70/PV.40).
Caribbean  Countries  and  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean Community (see A/70/PV.40).
In  addressing  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth session, the President of the Republic of Suriname, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  while 
reiterating Suriname’s deep concern about the persisting 
economic, commercial and financial embargo on Cuba, 
posed this question: “How many more resolutions need 
to be adopted before justice can be done for the people 
of Cuba?” (A/66/PV.16, p. 21) Last month, our Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, in her address during the general 
debate for the seventieth session remarked that
“[m]y  Government  welcomes  the  positive  steps 
taken 
towards  normalizing  bilateral  relations 
between  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America.  Suriname  has  a  longstanding 
friendship with the people of Cuba and we are of 
the view that the ongoing process of strengthening 
relations  will  help  to  enhance  peace,  stability, 
unity and development in the Americas. We agree 
with  the  international  community  that  lifting  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  on 
Cuba should be a top priority” (A/70/PV.28, p. 16).
The  blockade  of  Cuba  and  its  friendly  people, 
which  has  been  in  place  since  the  beginning  of  the 
1960s,  has  caused  and  continues  to  cause  hardship 
to  the  Cuban  people,  undermining  Cuba’s  efforts  to 
achieve sustainable development for its people. It denies 
the Cuban people access to basic goods and necessary 
medicines.  In  addition,  there  has  been  no  easing  of 
the problems with financial transactions conducted in 
United  States  dollars.  On  the  contrary,  the  economic 
damage that the blockade has done to Cuba is enormous. 
It  is  also  unacceptable  that  third  countries  have  to 
suffer  from  a  unilaterally  imposed  embargo  on  Cuba 
when  they  maintain  normal  relations  with  that  island 
nation.  The  enjoyment  of  the  right  to  an  education  is 
also central to achieving sustainable development, and 
the Cuban people are also denied that basic right by the 
hefty fees imposed on the transportation and shipment 
of education supplies.
At the outset, Suriname wishes to align itself with 
the statements delivered earlier by the representatives 
of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  of  Kuwait  on  behalf  of 
the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  of  Ecuador 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Cuba  has  always  positioned  itself  as  an  ally  and 
friend  to  its  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  global  South. 
Notwithstanding the severe challenges and constraints 
it has to deal with, it has demonstrated its commitment 
to  collaborating  with  other  developing  countries,  as 
well  as  to  helping  them  when  crises  emerge.  Many 
of  us,  including  my  own  country,  have  benefited  and 
15-33602
11/12
A/70/PV.41 
27/10/2015
continue  to  benefit  from  our  various  cooperation 
programmes  with  Cuba.  It  is  therefore  disheartening 
to note that for the twenty-fourth consecutive time the 
General Assembly has been asked to consider today’s 
resolution  70/5,  on  ending  the  economic,  financial 
and  commercial  embargo  against  Cuba,  even  when 
it  is  condemned  by  an  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
international community.
The  international  community  reiterates  the  call 
for  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  its  importance  in 
achieving  sustainable  development.  The  Government 
of the Republic of Suriname is of the considered view 
that sovereign equality, non-interference in countries’ 
internal  affairs  and  other  relevant  norms  governing 
international relations should be respected at all times. 
We believe that now is the time to do the right thing. 
We are convinced that lifting the embargo will greatly 
benefit the Cuban people. Mindful of that crucial fact, 
Suriname has maintained its longstanding position and 
voted in favour of resolution 70/5.
Mrs.  Carrión  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would  first  like  to  welcome  the  presence  here  today 
of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba.  Uruguay  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements delivered earlier on behalf of the Southern 
Common  Market,  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States  and  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
(see A/70/PV.40).
Uruguay  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  70/5  today 
for the following reasons. We welcome the restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  the  Governments  of 
Cuba and the United States, which we recognize as a 
positive  step  towards  the  beginning  of  a  new  chapter 
in the relations between both countries. However, the 
continued  blockade  is  still  having  a  severe  economic 
and humanitarian impact on the Cuban people. We are 
pleased  that  Cuba  has  been  removed  from  the  list  of 
States  that  sponsor  terrorism,  which  it  never  should 
have been on in the first place.
The Eastern Republic of Uruguay reiterates the firm 
position  it  has  expressed  on  many  occasions  against 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  of 
Cuba and its effect on the well-being of the people of 
Cuba. Contrary to the principles of justice and human 
rights, the blockade effectively represents a collective 
punishment of the Cuban people by seriously damaging 
the  country’s  economy  and  limiting  and  delaying  its 
development.  For  that  reason,  as  in  previous  years, 
this  year  Uruguay  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
presented  by  Cuba  in  the  understanding  that  the 
blockade contravenes the rule of law internationally and 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations, particularly those relating to non-interference, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  judicial 
sovereignty of States.
On  principle,  Uruguay  rejects  and  does  not 
recognize  in  its  national  legislation  another  State’s 
extraterritorial application of its internal laws. In that 
regard,  we  condemn  the  United  States  of  America’s 
imposition  of  unilateral  coercive  measures  on  Cuba, 
which represents a form of oppression and an obstacle 
to  dialogue  and  the  essential  and  recently  renewed 
rapprochement between the parties. We also believe that 
the situation is contrary to the standards that regulate 
international trade and bind the members of the World 
Trade  Organization.  In  voting  in  favour  of  resolution 
70/5  today,  Uruguay  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
multilateralism  as  a  legitimate  instrument  for  the 
settlement  of  disputes  among  States  and  an  effective 
way  to  encourage  international  cooperation,  human 
rights, security and understanding among peoples.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its 
consideration of agenda item 42?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
12/12 
15-33602
