United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
49th plenary meeting
Friday, 6 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 78 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/350)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/70/317 
and A/70/346)
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
would  like  to  thank  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), for her comprehensive briefing yesterday 
(see A/70/PV.48).
That  individuals  can  be  made  accountable  for 
international crimes has been a significant and defining 
achievement of international law. In Nuremburg it was 
decided that:
“[c]rimes against international law are committed 
by  men,  not  by  abstract  entities,  and  only  by 
punishing individuals who commit such crimes can 
the provision of international law be enforced”.
Seventy years ago in San Francisco, our founding 
fathers  and  mothers  adopted  a  text  that  created  this 
very  Organization.  Their  prayer  remains  as  relevant 
as it is eloquent — to save us and those after us from 
the  scourge  of  war  which  twice  in  their  lifetime 
brought  untold  sorrow  to  all  humankind.  Arguably, 
the  United  Nations  is  the  best  thing  that  happened 
to  the  rule  of  law  and  international  law.  Among  its 
many  achievements,  the  United  Nations,  through  the 
International  Law  Commission  and  the  initiative  of 
Trinidad and Tobago in 1989, recognized the growing 
clamour for a permanent international criminal court. 
The  long  campaign  culminated  in  the  United  Nations 
Diplomatic  Conference  leading  to  the  adoption  of  the 
Rome Statute in 1998, its entry into force in 2002, and 
the election of the first bench of judges in 2003.
Today the Philippines reaffirms its commitment to 
fighting  impunity  and  ensuring  that  perpetrators  are 
held to account for their crimes. For if we cannot deliver 
international criminal justice, global peace and security 
will not be possible. The International Criminal Court 
has become central to the majesty of the rule of law in 
our time. Just as Nuremburg pointed to individuals as 
authors of untold sorrow and injustice to multitudes, so 
must  we  recognize  individuals  who  contribute  to  the 
collective work of delivering international justice — a 
vocation that is certainly difficult, sometimes thankless 
and possibly dangerous. They include members of the 
Secretariat across the United Nations family involved 
in  the  delivery  of  justice;  the  judges  of  the  Court  led 
by President Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi; Prosecutor 
Fatou  Bensouda;  the  staff  of  both  the  Court  and  the 
Prosecutor;  President  Sidiki  Kaba  of  the  Assembly 
of  States  Parties  and  his  team;  and  the  lawyers,  civil 
society  advocates,  witnesses  and  victims,  many  of 
whom  are  unnamed  and  unsung.  Indeed,  it  is  people, 
individually then collectively, who make justice work.
the 
increasingly heavy workload of the Court — its pending 
judicial  proceedings,  situations,  and  preliminary 
examinations. Developments in the work of the Court 
The  Philippines  pays  close  attention 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-35401 (E)
*1535401*
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
and  of  the  Prosecutor  concern  us  as  a  State  party. 
Consistent  with  the  principle  of  complementarity 
and  as  part  of  our  duty  of  cooperation,  we  strive  to 
ensure that our criminal justice system is transparent, 
fair,  effective  and  relatively  speedy,  allowing  for 
the  prosecution  of  crimes  under  the  Rome  Statute. 
The  Philippine  legislation  enacted  in  2009  on  crimes 
against  international  humanitarian  law,  genocide,  and 
other  crimes  against  humanity  paved  the  way  for  our 
ratification of the Rome Statute.
the  context  of 
The  Philippines  supports  the  code  of  conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  or  war  crimes,  elaborated 
in 
the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and  Transparency  group  under  the  leadership  of 
Liechtenstein.  The  five  permanent  members  should 
refrain  from  using  their  veto  in  situations  involving 
mass  atrocity  crimes  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court.  We  also  call  on  the  Security  Council  to  take 
the  necessary  follow-up  measures  on  situations  it  has 
referred to the Court so as to uphold the credibility of 
both institutions and to ensure accountability.
The  Philippines  also  supports  the  mainstreaming 
of the work of the Court in the United Nations system, 
including  in  the  work  of  UN-Women,  as  a  follow-up 
to Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, 
peace  and  security.  States,  whether  parties  or  not, 
should help each other to protect human rights and build 
domestic capacities, including through human-resource 
development-related assistance such as the training of 
judges,  prosecutors,  the  police  and  the  military.  The 
Philippines would like to take this opportunity to thank, 
once again, the States parties for their confidence in the 
abilities of Professor Raul Pangalangan to contribute to 
the work of the Court, and for electing him as a judge 
for the next six years.
Our goal is universality. We join the call for many 
more countries to ratify or accede to the Rome Statute, 
particularly  from  our  Asia-Pacific  region.  The  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
now  defines  our  global  development  framework.  We 
will  achieve  that  agenda  only  if  we  have  peace  and 
security  based  on  justice  for  our  generation  and  for 
generations yet to come.
Mr. Remaoun (Algeria) (spoke in Spanish): At the 
outset, I should like to join previous speakers in thanking 
the President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), 
Judge Silvia Alejandra Fernández de Gurmendi, for her 
very detailed briefing (see A/70/PV.48) on the activities 
of the International Criminal Court covering the period 
from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015, in accordance with 
article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United Nations and the International Criminal Court. I 
should also like to take this opportunity to congratulate 
her on her election to this important post.
(spoke in English)
I should like also to thank the Secretary-General for 
his two reports, the first entitled “Information relevant 
to  the  implementation  of  article  3  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International Criminal Court” (A/70/317). The second 
is  entitled  “Expenses  incurred  and  reimbursement 
received  by  the  United  Nations  in  connection  with 
assistance  provided  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court” (A/70/346).
the  United  Nations  and 
Algeria welcomes this opportunity to contribute to 
the discussions on this crucial agenda item and wants 
to echo the concerns raised in past years by the African 
Union,  African  States  and  many  other  countries 
throughout  the  world  with  regard  to  the  need  for  the 
Security Council, the ICC and the Assembly of States 
Parties  to  engage  constructively  with  the  requests 
submitted  by  both  the  African  Union  and  African 
States.
Here  in  the  General  Assembly,  we  reiterate  our 
unflinching  commitment  to  fighting  impunity  and 
granting  access  to  justice.  My  country  has  shown 
over  the  years  its  determination  to  uphold  the  rule  of 
law  and  promote  human  rights,  democracy  and  good 
governance. We understand, on the one hand, that there 
is  a  need  for  the  international  community  to  commit 
to  fighting  impunity  and  ensuring  the  prosecution  of 
individuals  suspected  of  having  committed  crimes  of 
genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
On the other hand, we have to stress the primary role 
of  sovereign  States  in  pursuing  such  objectives.  We 
recall  in  this  respect  that  this  primacy  derives  from 
many  principles  well  established  under  international 
customary  law,  international  law  and  national  laws, 
such  as  the  principle  of  State  sovereignty,  territorial 
jurisdiction,  nationality,  the  primacy  of  actions  by 
States  regarding  criminal  prosecutions,  the  protective 
principle,  and  the  immunity  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government in the exercise of their functions.
The  primacy  of  national  jurisdictions  granted 
by  the  Rome  Statute  itself  under  the  principle  of 
complementarity  has  not  been  duly  applied  in  some 
2/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
cases  that  were  referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Security 
Council or the Office of the Prosecutor. In this regard 
we  cannot  be  astonished  to  see  many  States,  even 
those  that  are  parties  to  the  Statute,  questioning  the 
impartiality  of  this  institution  and  the  criteria  that 
have  been  used  in  taking  the  decision  whether  or  not 
to refer the Court, and expressin fears and doubts about 
political manipulation and selectivity.
It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  recall  that  the 
politicization, selectivity and misuse of indictments and 
abuse  by  the  International  Criminal  Court,  targeting 
only African States and leaders, were the main reasons 
for convening the extraordinary Summit of the African 
Union  in  Addis  Ababa  in  October  2013.  As  noted  by 
our Heads of State and Government at the Summit, the 
activities of the International Criminal Court since its 
establishment have focused exclusively on Africa, while 
unacceptable situations in other parts of the world have 
been ignored.
The  issue  of  international  justice  must  include 
the  need  to  respect  the  sovereignty  and  national 
independence of all States, including African countries. 
In this regard, based on national law and international 
customary law, which grants immunity to sitting Heads 
of State and Government and other senior State officials 
during  their  tenure,  the  African  Union  (AU)  Summit 
decided
“to safeguard the constitutional order, stability and 
integrity  of  Member  States,  no  charges  shall  be 
commenced or continued before any International 
Court or Tribunal against any serving AU Head of 
State or Government or anybody acting or entitled 
to act in such capacity during their term of office”.
While  Algeria  welcomes  the  decision  made  by 
the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC  on  5  December  2014  to 
withdraw  the  charges  against  the  President  of  Kenya, 
my delegation would like to echo the other important 
conclusions  of  the  latest  Summit  of  the  African 
Union,  held  last  June  in  South  Africa,  which  mainly 
requested  suspending  proceedings  initiated  against 
a  serving  African  President  or  Deputy  President,  in 
accordance with article 16 of the Rome Statute on the 
deferral  of  cases,  until  the  African  Union’s  concerns 
and proposals for amendments to the Rome Statute are 
considered. Those legally sound proposals represent a 
real opportunity to reinforce the conviction of Member 
States  of  the  impartiality  of  international  justice; 
defuse polarization; and preserve and safeguard peace, 
security and the stability of our African continent, as 
well as its dignity, sovereignty and integrity.
Mr. Andrianarivelo-Razafy (Madagascar) (spoke 
in French): The delegation of Madagascar would like to 
thank Judge Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC), for introducing the 
report of that international body (see A/70/PV.48).
During the period covered by the report (A/70/35), 
the  United  Nations  celebrated  the  tenth  anniversary 
of the entry into force of the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court, the only standing criminal court with 
universal  jurisdiction.  According  to  its  reports,  we 
note  that  the  implementation  of  the  Agreement  has 
strengthened  the  links  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Court.  We  express  our  heartfelt  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  commitment 
and  devotion  in  the  service  of  the  United  Nations 
and the Court. Madagascar fully supports the Court’s 
activities.
to 
importance 
Cooperation 
is  of  vital 
the 
functioning of the Court. Strengthening the regime of 
international cooperation and cooperation between the 
States and the ICC is of key importance to the future of 
the Court and to allow it to achieve its full potential. In 
this regard, my delegation welcomes the convening in 
Gaborone, on 29 and 30 October, of a high-level seminar 
on cooperation between the ICC and the States and the 
link between that cooperation and the strengthening of 
regional and national capacities, in which my country, 
Madagascar  participated  alongside  other  countries  of 
the Southern African Development Community.
to 
The 
strengthen 
seminar  helped  us 
the 
fundamental role of cooperation of States parties as an 
operational pillar of the Court. The effectiveness of the 
Court depends on such cooperation. It is now time to 
implement  the  66  cooperation  recommendations  that 
were adopted in 2007 by the Assembly of States Parties. 
We thank the organizers of that event — in particular the 
International Criminal Court, in cooperation with the 
Government of the Republic of Botswana — which was 
sponsored by the European Union and the Governments 
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Norway.
threats 
Growing 
to  peace  and 
international 
security,  the  current  scope  of  migratory  flows,  and 
ongoing violence and atrocities remain a major source 
of  concern  to  the  international  community,  which  is 
determined to put an end to impunity and to persecute 
15-35401
3/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
the perpetrators of the crimes of genocide, war crimes 
and crimes against humanity. That is why we supported 
the initiative of France and Mexico to suspend the veto in 
cases of mass atrocities, and the initiatives put forward 
by  Liechtenstein  and  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and Transparency group on a code of conduct to govern 
Security  Council  action  against  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes. A declaration on this 
matter was adopted in the framework of the seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations.
The adoption of the Kampala amendments on the 
crime  of  aggression  in  June  2010  was  a  significant 
advance in terms of making international criminal law 
more effective. The declaration adopted in September 
2012  at  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  national  and  international  levels  underscores  the 
international community’s awareness of the role that the 
ICC plays in a multilateral system aimed at putting an 
end to impunity and ensuring the rule of law. It stresses 
that impunity for crimes of genocide, war crimes and 
crimes against humanity will not be tolerated.
In  this  context,  Madagascar  is  committed  to 
ratifying  the  Kampala  amendments  on  the  crime  of 
aggression,  as  reaffirmed  by  the  President  of  our 
National  Assembly  during  his  visit  to  New  York  in 
September to participate in the parliamentary meetings 
on the roles of parliamentarians in criminalizing illegal 
and aggressive acts of war. A national action has been 
adopted to implement the Rome Statute and to integrate 
some  of  its  provisions  into  our  national  legislative 
framework.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
Assembly of States Parties, Mr. Sidiki Kaba of Senegal, 
to  overcome  the  challenges  before  the  Court  and  to 
make it stronger and more independent. My delegation 
takes this opportunity to congratulate and wish every 
success to the new judges who took up their posts on 
11 March and 11 July. We also congratulate the State 
of Palestine, which became the 123rd State party to the 
Rome  Statute,  and  the  States  that  have  ratified  and 
accepted  the  amendments  to  the  statute  on  the  crime 
of aggression. We encourage those States that are not 
parties to the Rome Statute to accede to it.
Mr.  Xu  Hong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation 
Judge  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi on her election as the President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and thanks 
her for her report (A/70/350).
congratulates 
China  has  always  attached  importance  to  the 
significant role of the ICC in maintaining international 
peace,  security  and 
justice,  prosecuting  serious 
international crimes, and promoting the development of 
international law, and has participated as an observer 
State in successive sessions of the Assembly of States 
Parties to the Rome Statute.
The  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  are  independent 
yet related organizations with the common interest of 
preventing and punishing serious international crimes 
that endanger international peace and security. The work 
of the two can therefore be mutually reinforcing. The 
ICC and the United Nations, and the Security Council 
in  particular,  should  respect  each  other’s  functions; 
intensify  cooperation  within  the  legal  framework 
defined by the Charter of the United Nations, relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council, and the Relationship Agreement between the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court; 
and build a constructive partnership.
The recent work of the ICC has demonstrated that 
prosecutors are becoming more cautious and pragmatic 
in their investigations and prosecutions, and the role of 
the Court in international affairs is enjoying increasing 
attention.  China  hopes  the  Court  will  continue  to 
perform  its  duties  prudently  in  order  to  ensure  that 
criminal justice is not achieved at the expense of peace, 
stability and national reconciliation. In addressing the 
issue of the immunity of Heads of State, we hope that 
the  Court  will  strictly  abide  by  existing  international 
law  and  take  into  full  consideration  the  legal  claims 
of  certain  countries  so  as  to  avoid  obstructing  the 
performance by State leaders of their duties.
The Chinese delegation notes that 24 State parties 
have  ratified  the  amendment  to  the  Rome  Statute 
on  the  crime  of  aggression.  Given  that  the  crime  of 
aggression  has  a  bearing  on  international  peace  and 
security, the amendment should be implemented in an 
orderly manner within the framework of international 
law  established  by  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The 
paramount authority of the Charter must be safeguarded, 
and any other international legislation must conform to 
its provisions. Regarding the content of the amendment 
and  the  timing  of  its  entry  into  force,  China  believes 
that parties should engage in full consultations to seek 
maximum consensus with a view to reaching the widest 
possible agreement.
Peace,  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  are  the  shared 
vision  and  aspiration  of  human  society.  China  looks 
4/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
forward to ongoing contributions by the Court to that 
lofty goal.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  We  welcome 
President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  the  first 
woman to head the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
as President. We commend her for her strong leadership 
and look forward to seeing her frequently here in New 
York.
The Court’s report shows the progress made during 
the  past  year.  The  opening  of  the  trial  against  Bosco 
Ntaganda stands out in particular, along with the fact 
that  the  Court  will  finally  be  able  to  provide  justice 
for  the  victims  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army.  The 
upcoming year will mark the highest level yet of judicial 
activities. That illustrates how dynamic and active the 
institution has become and that there is a solid level of 
cooperation from States.
Expediting judicial proceedings while guaranteeing 
full  respect  for  the  rights  of  the  accused  remains  a 
challenge and is key for the future success of the ICC, 
but  we  should  not  assume  that  enhancing  efficiency 
and  making  budget  cuts  automatically  go  hand  in 
hand.  A  lack  of  funding  can  be  a  factor  in  slowing 
down  proceedings,  at  which  point  financial  austerity 
becomes  counterproductive.  Demands  on  the  ground, 
not  financial  considerations,  should  determine  the 
scope of the Court’s activities.
Justice is inexpensive compared to the human and 
financial  costs  associated  with  atrocity  crimes,  from 
massive material destruction to large-scale displacement. 
We  are  therefore  concerned  by  the  comments  made 
yesterday  by  the  Prosecutor  in  the  Security  Council 
(see S/PV.7549) that a new investigation in Libya may 
not be possible due to lack of funding, and in spite of 
the obvious potential benefits of such an investigation. 
This also reinforces the point that States parties have 
been making for a number of years now that the costs 
for  investigations  resulting  from  a  Security  Council 
referral  should  be  financed  from  the  United  Nations 
budget, as provided for under the Rome Statute.
The  Council’s  lack  of  follow-up  to  its  referrals 
continues  to  hamper  accountability,  in  particular  its 
lack  of  response  to  notifications  of  non-cooperation. 
The failure of the Council to do its job under the Rome 
Statute makes the full application of the other provisions 
impossible. Ten years after its first referral, the Council 
still lacks direction and purpose in its relationship with 
the Court. There is much room for a more productive 
including 
relationship, 
through  stronger  mandates 
for  peacekeeping  and  special  political  missions  and 
targeted sanctions against indicted persons.
the 
report  of 
Unfortunately, 
the  High-level 
Independent Panel on Peace Operations (see A/70/95) 
fails to address this point even though 44 States have 
issued a joint submission calling for better support of 
the ICC and its mandate by peace operations. We hope 
that this can be remedied in the review by States that 
is under way. It is not only the Council that has to step 
up  its  game.  States  parties  themselves  must  increase 
their efforts to execute more than a dozen outstanding 
arrest  warrants.  The  location  of  many  indictees  is 
public  knowledge.  Full  cooperation  with  the  Court  is 
an obligation that States have voluntarily undertaken in 
ratifying the Rome Statute.
The  prosecution  and  the  defence  also  rely  on 
cooperation  for  investigations  and  witness  protection 
and in order to ensure the freezing of assets of indictees. 
We  have  just  organized  a  workshop  in  The  Hague  on 
financial  investigations,  together  with  the  Court  and 
the  Basel  Institute  on  Governance.  We  hope  that  its 
findings can be the basis for concrete progress in this 
area of cooperation between States and the Court.
The  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  remains  a 
key  goal.  While  123  States  parties  is  a  solid  number, 
the Court does not currently have jurisdiction in more 
than  one  third  of  the  United  Nations  membership. 
The  Informal  Ministerial  Network  coordinated  by 
our  Foreign  Minister  has  initiated  an  action  plan  for 
universality in order to move forward and to close the 
existing impunity gaps. Expanding membership in the 
Court is the most obvious way to fight the perception 
of selectivity from which the Court continues to suffer.
We welcome the progress made in the ratification 
process  of  the  Kampala  amendments  on  the  crime  of 
aggression,  which  many  speakers  before  me  have 
referenced in their interventions. With the ratification 
of  Switzerland  in  September,  only  six  additional 
ratifications are needed to allow for the activation of the 
Court’s jurisdiction in 2017. The Kampala amendments 
on the crime of aggression are firmly based on existing 
international  law,  provide  for  full  clarity  on  their 
application in practice, and were therefore adopted by 
consensus by all States parties at the Review Conference 
in 2010.
The  Kampala  agreement  exempts  non-States 
parties from the jurisdiction of the Court, and it fully 
15-35401
5/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
safeguards  the  Court’s  independence  vis-à-vis  the 
Security Council while fully respecting the provisions of 
the Charter of the United Nations. The activation of the 
Court’s jurisdiction in 2017 will make the most serious 
forms  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  a  punishable  offence 
before  the  ICC.  This  will  complement  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  which  prohibits  the  illegal  use  of 
force and brings to a conclusion almost two decades of 
discussion in the framework of the Rome Statute.
Whenever  atrocity  crimes  occur,  there  are  calls 
for  the  ICC  to  get  involved.  The  institution  is  thus 
confronted with the highest expectations, while it can 
of course not bring justice of itself. Its value, however, 
is  not  limited  to  cases  where  it  has  the  capacity  to 
conduct  trials.  It  has  been  scientifically  proven  that 
the  International  Criminal  Court  can  deter  crimes.  A 
recent  academic  study  illustrated  that  some  potential 
perpetrators  have  shied  away  from  enlisting  child 
soldiers because of the fear of ICC prosecution.
The biggest benefit of the Court’s work, however, 
is its central role as a symbol of accountability and an 
incentive  for  States  to  investigate  and  prosecute  the 
most serious crimes in their national systems. There is 
much  room  for  international  involvement  in  building 
and  strengthening  national  capacities  in  this  respect. 
We hope that we can enhance cooperation among the 
Court, the United Nations system and all States in order 
to be better equipped to fight impunity.
Mr. Barro (Senegal) (spoke in French): On behalf 
of my delegation, I should like first to congratulate you 
very warmly, Mr. President, on your election to preside 
over this seventieth session of the General Assembly. I 
reiterate the support of my delegation as you carry out 
your work.
I  should  also  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Silvia 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  on  her  election  as  President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  I  welcome 
the  laudable  efforts  that  she  has  been  making  at  the 
head of that body in her relationship with the judges, 
the  Prosecutor’s  Office  and  the  Registry  in  order  to 
promote international justice.
Please allow me, in the same vein, to reiterate the 
sincere  gratitude  of  my  country  to  the  States  parties 
that  placed  their  trust  in  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  Minister 
of Justice of Senegal, as President of the Assembly of 
States Parties.
My  delegation  welcomes 
to 
consider the report of the International Criminal Court 
the  opportunity 
(A/70/350)  and  commends  its  relevance  in  providing 
us  with  essential  information  on  the  activities  of  the 
Court from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015, in particular 
the preliminary examinations, investigations and trials, 
as  well  as  the  support  extended  to  the  Court  by  the 
United  Nations,  in  particular  through  its  offices  and 
peacekeeping missions throughout the world.
I  believe  that  dynamic  interaction  among  the 
Court, the General Assembly and the Security Council 
can  contribute  to  strengthening  international  peace 
and security and to suppressing serious crimes against 
humanity.  Working  in  perfect  harmony,  these  three 
bodies,  whose  complementarity  is  obvious,  could 
further contribute to ensuring international peace and 
security because they often face the same challenges. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  supports  the  idea  of 
extending  an  annual  invitation  to  the  President  and 
the Prosecutor of the Court to inform the Council and 
exchange views on issues of common interest and ways 
to  strengthen  their  mutual  cooperation.  We  are  also 
in favour of allowing the Office of Legal Affairs, the 
focal  point  of  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
United  Nations  system,  to  assume  a  stronger  role  as 
coordinator among the various United Nations bodies.
From  1  August  2014  to  31  July  2015,  the  Court 
had  a  very  heavy  workload.  During  that  period,  the 
Prosecutor’s  Office  had  to  carry  out  preliminary 
examinations  of  10  situations  and  open  a  new 
investigation  on  the  situation  in  another  country.  The 
growing number of cases before the Court is an indicator 
of its importance and of the hopes that it inspires that 
impunity  for  the  crimes  under  its  jurisdiction,  which 
weigh  heavy  on  our  collective  conscience,  may  be 
eliminated. But the ongoing increase in the number of 
cases before the Court, together with the insufficiency 
of available resources, could have a negative impact on 
its effectiveness. It is therefore necessary to strengthen 
the financial support of the United Nations in order to 
enable the Court to carry out its functions.
In  this  regard,  the  General  Assembly  should 
take  into  account  the  costs  of  various  investigations 
and  prosecutions  linked  to  situations  that  have  been 
referred to the Court under article 115 (b) of the Rome 
Statute, which states that funds shall be provided by the 
United Nations, subject to the approval of the General 
Assembly,  in  particular  in  relation  to  the  expenses 
incurred due to referrals by the Security Council.
Furthermore, it is also important to keep in mind 
the  subsidiary  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  which  can 
6/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
be  seized  of  cases  only  when  a  State  cannot  or  will 
not  discharge  its  responsibility  to  prosecute  crimes 
that  are  punishable  under  the  Rome  Statute.  In  that 
regard, the United Nations should continue to provide 
technical assistance to those countries that request it, in 
particular to strengthen their national capacities in the 
institutional  and  legislative  spheres  by  training  their 
judicial personnel and police and security forces.
Having  established  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  made  it  a  standing  body,  the  international 
community must now rise to the challenge of achieving 
its universality by encouraging States that have not yet 
done so to sign or ratify the Rome Statute. In this regard, 
I should like to congratulate the State of Palestine on its 
recent accession to the Rome Statute.
The cooperation of States parties and non-parties, 
civil society and subregional and regional organizations 
with the Court is also of key importance to its functions, 
in particular with respect to proceedings, investigations, 
the  handling  of  evidence  and  the  implementation  of 
international mandates. I encourage States to ratify the 
agreement  on  the  privileges  and  immunities  of  Court 
personnel, as Senegal did in September 2014 during the 
treaty  ceremony.  Furthermore,  the  Security  Council, 
as guarantor of international peace and security, must 
act  responsibly  and  objectively  when  it  considers 
situations of mass atrocities. The Council’s support and 
cooperation are therefore indispensable to ensure that 
the Court functions well.
In conclusion, my delegation wholeheartedly calls 
for  strengthened  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations system and the Court on a broad spectrum of 
topics. In that spirit, the full and complete cooperation 
of the international community is obviously necessary 
to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes under international law are held accountable for 
their activities, that we deliver justice to the victims and 
communities  that  were  affected,  and  that  we  prevent 
further atrocities.
Mr. Sarki (Nigeria): We wish to thank the President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, for her comprehensive report 
(A/70/350) and to congratulate her and the seven new 
judges who were elected to serve in the Court during 
the reporting period. We wish to seize this opportunity 
also  to  express  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the 
ICC, Mr. Sidiki Kaba, Minister of Justice of Senegal, 
for his work in coordinating the affairs of the Assembly 
since he assumed office on 8 December 2014. We also 
wish to congratulate the State of Palestine on acceding 
to the Rome Statute.
We note that the ICC has made appreciable progress 
in  the  fight  against  impunity  and  crimes  against 
humanity. We commend the Court for its contribution to 
the development of substantive and procedural elements 
of international criminal law. The contributions of the 
Court to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for 
human rights are also very commendable. Through its 
work,  the  need  to  ensure  accountability  for  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes  has  been 
strengthened.
The raison d’être of the ICC is based on the concept 
that  impunity  must  be  challenged  and  that  everybody 
should be held accountable for their actions. Therefore, 
the  cooperation  of  States,  international  organizations 
and  civil  society  is  vital  for  the  Court  to  continue 
discharging its role as enshrined in the Rome Statute. 
It is for this reason that Nigeria finds it perplexing that 
some Member States have decided not to recognize the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  over  their  nationals,  while  at  the 
same time clamouring for the imposition of the Court’s 
jurisdiction over the nationals of other States, including 
Heads of State and Government.
That said, we note that during the reporting period, 
the  ICC  had  a  busy  schedule  in  which  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  conducted  preliminary  examination 
activities in 10 situations and opened a new investigation 
into  the  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic. 
Also,  the  Court  admitted  4,002  victims  to  participate 
in proceedings before it. It is also envisaged that there 
will be an unprecedented number of four trials that will 
take place simultaneously in 2016, which would cover 
alleged crimes involving more than 10,000 victims.
We wish to recognize the work done by the Court 
on specific country situations. We commend the Libyan 
representatives  to  the  ICC  for  their  close  cooperation 
with  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor.  We  welcome  the 
exchange of information between the Libyan Prosecutor-
General’s Office and the Office of the ICC Prosecutor 
and commend the commitment and professionalism of 
the  Libyan  national  investigators.  We  encourage  the 
two  sides  to  strengthen  their  cooperation  and  work 
together to end impunity in Libya.
We condemn all mass executions, including that of 
a group of 30 Ethiopian Christians by the Islamic State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS).  We  also  condemn  other 
15-35401
7/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
abductions that have been attributed to ISIS. We call for 
an immediate and unconditional ceasefire across Libya. 
Parties  involved  in  the  conflict  should  refrain  from 
targeting civilians or civilian targets and should desist 
from committing further criminal acts. We call on all 
Libyan militias to disarm and participate in the efforts 
to restore peace, and law and order in the country. We 
support  the  political  dialogue  and  the  formation  of  a 
Government of national accord to meet the aspirations 
of the Libyan people to establish the rule of law in their 
country and to end the conflict and safeguard Libya’s 
unity and territorial integrity. That is vital to stabilizing 
the country and ending the impunity of terrorist groups 
and militias.
We  also  welcome  improved  cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the ICC, cooperation between 
the ICC and United Nations peacekeeping missions and 
other United Nations presences in the field, as well as 
cooperation with the Security Council. We agree with 
the  report  that,  as  the  main  forum  for  international 
cooperation and consultation, the United Nations offers 
a unique context for promoting the mainstreaming and 
understanding of Rome Statute issues and considerations 
into  a  wider  variety  of  areas  of  international  activity. 
We also note with satisfaction the content of the report 
concerning cooperation with and assistance from States, 
other  international  organizations  and  civil  society,  as 
well  as  the  cooperation  between  relevant  partners  in 
the context of supporting and strengthening the Rome 
Statute system of international criminal justice, which 
is an example of complementarity in action.
The  report  also  indicates  that  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  continues  its  analysis  of  the  war  crimes 
committed  by  Boko  Haram  and  allegedly  also  by  the 
Nigerian  security  forces  in  the  context  of  the  fight 
against  terrorism  in  Nigeria.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the 
Office of the Prosecutor has not been able to identify 
any  case  against  the  Nigerian  security  forces.  It  must 
be noted clearly that as a signatory to the Rome Statute, 
Nigeria  is  faithfully  committed  to  the  ideals  of  the 
responsibility to protect. The protection of civilians in 
armed  conflict,  especially  women,  girls  and  children 
and other vulnerable persons, is a commitment that we 
have taken upon ourselves. Our stance on human rights, 
the rule of law, peace and security, democracy and good 
governance and accountability are also in line with the 
founding principles of the ICC.
We have been demonstrating our abiding commitment 
to  the  promotion  of  these  values  in  diverse  ways. 
Nigeria is a member of the Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute of the ICC, which we ratified on 
27  September  2001.  We  have  consistently  underlined 
the structural importance of the ICC in the fight against 
impunity  and  in  the  quest  for  judicial  accountability. 
We believe that impunity must be addressed resolutely 
wherever it occurs in the world and not just selectively 
by  targeting  weaker  States.  It  is  our  belief  that  the 
aspiration for a global system that is based on the rule 
of law, where accountability and social justice are the 
foundations  for  durable  peace,  should  be  a  source  of 
inspiration to all. Indeed, that should be a priority for 
the international community.
Mr. Misztal (Poland): Poland aligns itself with the 
statement made by the observer of the European Union 
on  this  agenda  item  (see  A/70/PV.48).  My  delegation 
would nevertheless like to underline and discuss some 
of the points it considers to be of the utmost importance.
First,  let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual 
report to the United Nations (see A/70/350). I also wish 
to congratulate the new President of the Court, Judge 
Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  and  all  newly  elected 
judges. We are proud that Judge Piotr Hofmański, who 
was  nominated  by  my  Government,  is  one  of  them. 
I  am  sure  that  their  work  will  contribute  to  further 
strengthening the international system of justice.
The caseload of the Court has continued to increase 
during  the  reporting  period.  Especially  significant  is 
the  Court’s  first  appeals  judgment  on  the  merits  in 
the  Thomas  Lubanga  case.  We  welcome  the  ongoing 
efforts  aimed  at  improving  the  Court’s  work.  We 
believe  that  introducing  some  changes  to  the  rules 
of  procedure  and  evidence  involving,  among  others, 
limiting the composition of the Court in certain cases, 
would contribute to more efficient proceedings without 
prejudice to their reliability and integrity.
We  are  a  long  way  from  achieving  the  Rome 
Statute’s universality. The majority of humankind still 
lives in States that are not party to the Rome Statute, 
the treaty which, by envisaging effective punishment of 
perpetrators, aims at the protection of individuals from 
most grievous crimes. That is why we believe that the 
idea of universality should be advocated by any means 
possible.  We  welcome  the  ICC’s  efforts  to  stimulate 
interest  and  support  for  more  countries  to  consider 
joining the Court. But it is also a responsibility of each 
State  Party  to  spread  the  values  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
We  welcome  the  Action  Plan  for  the  Universality  of 
8/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
the  Rome  Statute,  adopted  recently  by  the  Informal 
Ministerial Network for the ICC, in which my country 
plays  an  active  part.  It  is  a  perfect  example  of  the 
political support States parties can provide in order to 
champion the idea of universality.
the  parties 
Yet, there is still much to be done in this area and 
in the field of promoting understanding of the Statute’s 
significance  among 
themselves.  The 
year  2015  is  the  first  in  a  long  time  when,  instead  of 
looking in hope at the growing number of Rome Statute 
States  parties,  we  might  worry  that  they  may  begin 
to dwindle. It is a great challenge for the ICC and the 
States parties to overcome this state of affairs. In this 
context, cooperation with African partners is especially 
important.  Poland  emphasizes  that  it  is  indispensable 
for  African  countries  to  be  part  of  the  international 
system  of  justice  underpinned  by  the  Rome  Statute. 
Each State party from Africa is priceless if the scales 
of justice are to operate fairly.
Poland  underlines  that  victims  should  be  at  the 
centre of attention of the ICC’s legal system. Their rights, 
especially  the  rights  to  participation  and  reparation, 
are a fundamental aspect of the Rome Statute. Poland 
contributes  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  and  invites 
other parties to do so. The Trust Fund supports victims 
of crimes under the ICC’s jurisdiction and enables them 
to  pursue  their  rights.  It  is  worth  noting  that  during 
the reporting period the Court and the Trust Fund for 
Victims  started  to  implement  the  first  court-ordered 
reparations in the Thomas Lubanga case. Never before 
has this innovative solution established in article 75 of 
the Rome Statute been applied. We expect that further 
contributions to the Fund will enable victims to exercise 
their right to reparation.
Special attention should also be devoted to instances 
of the Security Council acting under Chapter VII of the 
United Nations Charter and referring a situation to the 
International Criminal Court. Poland strongly believes 
that the Council should enforce cooperation on the part 
of the States concerned should they fail to cooperate in 
fulfilling the Court’s mandate.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The present global situation proves that the number 
of armed conflicts is far from falling. New challenges 
are  piling  up  for  the  international  system  of  justice. 
It  must  therefore  be  remembered  that  even  the  most 
smoothly  running  institution  will  not  be  efficient 
without collaborative effort and good will on the part 
of  members  of  the  international  community.  That 
applies  to  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  non-States 
parties  alike,  as  well  as  to  all  permanent  members  of 
the  Security  Council,  as  everyone  should  care  about 
putting  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  worst  atrocities. 
There  cannot  be  lasting  peace  without  justice,  and 
ensuring justice is our common responsibility.
We believe that only together can we free the world 
from  all  forms  of  injustice.  Poland  supports  the  ICC 
in  its  struggle  against  impunity,  as  it  is  the  central 
institution of the international systems of justice. It is 
therefore necessary to make progress towards achieving 
a more efficient and effective Court and to protect its 
independence. Full and unconditional independence of 
the ICC is a sine qua non of the international criminal 
justice system. We have always supported the Court’s 
mission and will continue to do so.
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya):  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report (A/70/350) on the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  I  should  also  like  at  this  point 
to take the opportunity to recognize Judge Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. Judge Fernández takes over the leadership of the 
Court at a time when the Court is growing in stature 
and reach. I wish to reassure the Judge, on behalf of the 
Republic of Kenya, of our continued support.
Over the years, Kenya has continued to encourage 
the  ICC  to  expand  activities,  enhance  its  work  and 
improve  its  efficiencies  and  footprint,  as  the  Court 
was  created  to  ensure  that  the  world  has  a  common 
platform to fight impunity. As with other international 
institutions, we continue to engage robustly, encourage 
and provide legislative guidance to the Court to try to 
keep it faithful to our collective objective while keeping 
it aligned to the Rome Statute.
in 
The  conclusion 
this  session’s  report  (see 
A/70/350) is more encouraging than that of the previous 
session. We commend the ICC on the achievement of 
the first appeal judgment on the merits. However, we 
continue  to  express  our  deep  regret  at  the  slow  pace 
of judicial output in the Court’s 12 years of existence, 
particularly  in  the  light  of  the  resources  expended, 
the  rising  expectations  of  millions  and  the  mounting 
needs for international judicial redress in the world. In 
a world where multiple communities and countries are 
devastated by horrific wars and clashes and where grave 
injustices go unpunished, that dismal output of tangible 
results by the Court is disheartening and confounding.
15-35401
9/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
Moreover,  Kenya  remains  deeply  concerned  by 
the  current  interpretation  and  implementation  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  as  we  have  stated  several  times.  There 
is  growing  anxiety  and  urgency,  particularly  among 
African  States,  that  the  manner  of  the  application 
of  the  Rome  Statute  by  the  ICC  does  not  augur  well 
for  the  future  of  the  Court.  For  us,  the  continued 
wrongheaded  interpretation  of  the  Statute  could  very 
well  be  the  undoing  of  the  Court.  Clearly,  something 
is deeply wrong with the collective architecture of the 
international criminal system at the ICC, for the very 
reasons that we have stated before on several occasions.
As we said at this very rostrum last year (see A/69/
PV.34),  when  we,  the  Member  States,  were  forming 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  we  were  convinced 
that we were setting up a Court with higher standards 
of  practices  and  procedures  than  those  found  in 
our  national  jurisdictions.  However,  today  we  find 
ourselves saddled with a Court that has lower standards 
and thresholds than those found in our national courts. 
That ought simply to be unacceptable. To illustrate the 
point, Kenya recalls that during the Assembly of States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  meeting  in  November 
2013,  the  Assembly  made  an  informed  and  collective 
decision  that  the  amendments  to  rule  68,  on  prior 
recorded  testimony,  would  not  be  used  retroactively 
and  would  not  be  used  in  any  case  before  the  Court 
at that point. Less than a year later, in total disregard 
of the collective will and understanding that had been 
reached  at  the  Assembly,  the  prosecution  ignored  the 
legislative  authority  of  the  Assembly  and  sought  to 
apply the amended rule in the Kenya case. What is more 
shocking is that the Court itself has gone ahead to allow 
such application of rule 68 not only in total disregard 
of  the  basic  tenets  on  the  retroactive  application  of 
law, but also in full knowledge of the aforementioned 
understanding and consensus reached at the November 
2013 meeting.
It should be remembered by all that the retroactive 
application of the law does not meet the legal thresholds 
in any of our countries, including tribunals and judicial 
bodies even at the lowest levels. In the Kenyan case, we 
now find the Prosecutor perpetuating the prosecution of 
a case with little evidence, and being forced to resort to 
the use of recanted statements. Such statements cannot 
be subjected to cross-examination, as is the requirement 
in criminal law. That surely goes against the rights of 
an  accused  person,  whether  in  civil  or  common  law 
systems. Yet we see it playing out at The Hague.
Furthermore,  in  paragraphs  50  and  51,  the  report 
before  us  today  mentions  ongoing  investigations  into 
the  situation  in  Kenya.  Recently,  the  integrity  of  the 
investigations in the Kenyan cases have been called into 
question owing to the alarming but credible revelations 
that the Prosecutor’s witnesses brought before the Court 
were procured with promises of reward. The efficacy of 
evidence that is now eight years old has become even 
more suspect. Those devastating revelations of witness 
tampering  have  led  to  190  members  of  the  Kenyan 
Parliament,  50  of  whom  are  from  the  opposition,  to 
petition  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  as  well 
as  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  in 
seeking  intervention  in  this  eight-year-old  case  on 
Kenya that has been at The Hague.
Over the year — that is, in one single year — 4,002 
victims were admitted to participate in the proceedings 
before the Court. That is an admirable number. However, 
it  is  Kenya’s  experience  that  the  issue  of  admitting 
victims,  while  in  principle  laudable,  remains  a  likely 
avenue  for  abuse.  Kenya  is  concerned  that  adequate 
steps are not in place and the systems do not exist at The 
Hague to ensure that only genuine victims, and indeed 
for that matter, genuine witnesses, are included in the 
proceedings and can avail themselves of the protections 
laid out in the Rome Statute.
Kenya,  as  a  situation  country,  continues  to  be 
acutely aware of the manner in which the ICC operates 
and the interpretation it gives to the Rome Statute. As 
we  approach  another  election  cycle,  we  have  come  to 
recognize that the manner in which the ICC processes 
are  applied  can  be  prejudicial  to  the  interests  of  a 
Member  State,  and  can  have  serious  consequences  to 
the political reality of a country as it goes through its 
political cycle. The mishandling of those processes can 
be severely disruptive to the political cycle and social 
progress.  They  can  be  impact  severely  on  national 
healing after a collective trauma, as Kenya suffered in 
2007-2008. They can impact severely on the promotion 
of  peace  and  stability  and  even,  sadly,  on  the  pursuit 
of truth and justice. It is important, therefore, that the 
ICC and its cases must not be used or allowed to retard 
national healing or to destabilize countries.
What  we  have  found  is  that  bringing  all  these 
concerns  to  an  Assembly  such  as  this  is  something 
that is clearly challenging to a delegation such as ours. 
We have noted that notwithstanding the huge financial 
outlays  provided  for  the  ICC  and  the  pressure  on  the 
10/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
already overstretched budget that we have seen at the 
ICC, and despite the growing disquiet about the Court’s 
performance, we remain concerned that any attempts to 
discuss and question the issues that I have just spoken 
about, both publicly and transparently, continues to be 
met with stiff resistance under the guise of protecting 
the  independence  of  the  Court  and  its  organs.  We 
simply  cannot  have  a  situation  where  Member  States 
cannot  engage  in  dialogue  over  the  issues  that  are  of 
concern to Member States and the performance of the 
Court in a situation where bringing up those issues is 
met with ridicule or resistance.
The  report  that  we  have  before  us  rightly  states, 
in paragraph 100, that national jurisdictions should be 
encouraged and assisted by the international community 
to address the need for increased capacity in the areas 
of  the  administration  of  justice  and  the  fight  against 
impunity.  The  ICC  was  never  intended  to  replace 
national courts, and is therefore a court of last resort. 
Therefore,  greater  emphasis  should  be  accorded  to 
supporting national and regional initiatives to promote 
peace and to fight impunity in our regions. In that vein, 
African  States  have  tried  to  engage  constructively 
with  the  International  Criminal  Court,  but  with  little 
success.  Despite  individual  and  collective  efforts 
to  initiate  and  develop  an  enabling  environment  for 
constructive dialogue with the ICC, they have met with 
marginal success.
Finally,  section  III  B  of  the  report  deals  with 
cooperation  with,  and  assistance  from,  States,  other 
international  organizations  and  civil  society.  We  note 
a  telling,  glaring  omission  in  paragraph  107,  namely, 
the absence of any mention of the African Union. One 
would think that, as the bulk of the work that the Court 
deals with is centred in Africa, there would be a greater 
and more proactive effort on the part of the Court not 
only to report on that, and the entity that oversees it, 
but  to  deepen  its  interactions  and  cooperation  with 
the  African  Union  and  individual  African  States  in 
a  manner  that  reflects  these  important  matters.  This 
unfortunate  state  of  affairs  needs  to  be  discouraged. 
As  a  way  forward,  we  suggest  that  high-level  Court 
officials, who come through New York quite regularly, 
should  hold  regular  and  predictable  meetings  and 
briefings with the New York African Group whenever 
they travel to the United Nations on business. We note 
that  they  already  do  that  with  other  certain  regional 
groups, and we call for remedial action from the Court 
in that regard.
In  conclusion,  the  report  we  have  in  front  of  us 
fails to tackle the real issues facing the ICC and fails 
to  offer  any  insights,  as  we  have  said  in  previous 
years,  on  possible  solutions  to  improve  the  work  and 
relationship of the ICC with its member States moving 
forward.  None  of  the  organizational  realities  and 
challenges that the Court has faced in implementing its 
mandate  is  contained  in  this  report.  It  lacks  analysis 
and perspective. Our continued acceptance of the status 
quo therefore will only undermine the legitimacy of the 
Court and its core mandate, the fight against impunity. 
We  look  forward  to  the  new  President  of  the  ICC 
rectifying those matters in future reports.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  Government  of  Mexico  would  like  to  thank 
Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the 
International  Criminal  Court,  for  the  presentation  of 
the eleventh annual report (see A/70/350) of the Court 
to the General Assembly, which covers the work of the 
Court from August 2014 to July 2015.
Mexico  welcomes  the  accession  of  the  State  of 
Palestine to the Rome Statute in the period covered by 
the report. The State of Palestine has thus become the 
123rd  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  Our  goal  will 
continue to be working towards the achievement of the 
universality of the Rome Statute.
The  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  includes, 
among other things, the opening of a new investigation, 
the  confirmation  of  its  first  verdict  and  sentence  and 
the  detention  and  appearance  of  the  first  accused 
in  the  first  situation  that  was  referred  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction. Together with the progress made in judicial 
proceedings and the increasing participation of victims, 
this shows progressive development in the work of the 
tribunal.  We  note  that  this  week  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims  presented  its  first  draft  implementation  plan 
for collective reparations to victims in connection with 
the Lubanga case.
Despite  the  instances  of  progress  that  I  have  just 
mentioned,  the  Court  is  also  facing  challenges  in 
fully complying with its mandate. For example, arrest 
warrants  issued  by  the  Court  remain  outstanding 
against 12 individuals.
Secondly,  and  related  to  the  point  I  just  made,  in 
the period covered by the report, the Court referred to 
the Security Council three findings of non-cooperation 
pertaining to situations the Council had referred to the 
Court, bringing the total number to 11. It is urgent that 
15-35401
11/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
the  Council,  as  guarantor  of  international  peace  and 
security,  provide  effective  follow-up  to  the  situations 
that it has referred to the International Criminal Court, 
particularly when the Court has notified the Council of 
non-cooperation by a given State.
Thirdly,  it  is  worth  recalling  that  the  powers 
conferred  upon  the  Security  Council  in  the  Rome 
Statute  to  refer  situations  to  the  Court  involve  a  duty 
towards  the  victims  and  the  international  community 
as  a  whole.  I  reiterate  the  call  of  my  country  for  the 
Security Council to make such referrals on the basis of 
objective and non-politicized criteria. The goal should 
be  that  the  perpetrators  of  international  crimes  are 
effectively brought before the law and that victims are 
compensated.
With regard to the role carried out by the Security 
Council  in  that  area,  I  should  like  to  underscore  the 
recent support by a large number of countries for the 
initiative promoted by my country jointly with France 
for  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  to 
commit to refrain from exercising their so-called right 
to  the  veto  when  dealing  with  situations  where  mass 
atrocities have been committed.
The report presented by the International Criminal 
Court  highlights  the  importance  of  strengthening 
cooperation with the United Nations and proposes some 
means of achieving that goal. It would be interesting to 
explore those options in order to assess their feasibility.
Finally, the report also mentions the actions taken by 
other actors in the international community, including 
the  Organization  through  its  specialized  entities  and 
agencies, all of which contribute to efforts to encourage 
States and to help them boost their capacities to improve 
their  justice  systems  and  accountability  mechanisms. 
As  Mexico  has  highlighted  on  many  occasions,  it  is 
precisely  in  such  forums  with  an  explicit  mandate  in 
that  regard  where  it  is  extremely  relevant  to  promote 
such efforts, rather than in the Court itself, which, as a 
fully judicial tribunal, has no such mandate.
Mexico acknowledges and underscores the importance 
of  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  as 
presented  in  the  report  under  consideration  at  the 
present  session.  We  encourage  the  Court  to  continue 
strengthening its work strictly within the framework of 
the Rome Statute.
Ms. Guillén-Grillo (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): 
My delegation would like to express its gratitude for the 
detailed  and  accurate  report  (see  A/70/350)  presented 
by  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi.  Costa 
Rica  welcomes  her  election  and  would  like  to  assure 
her  of  our  support  as  she  carries  out  the  important 
functions entrusted to her. At the same time, we would 
like  to  congratulate  her  on  the  steps  that  have  begun 
to  be  taken  in  order  to  increase  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness of the Court.
Costa  Rica  wishes  to  reiterate  its  full  support  for 
the Court. We are entirely convinced that it is one of 
the  most  important  achievements  of  multilateralism 
and  an  outcome  of  the  willingness  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community  to  achieve  two  goals.  The 
first was to put an end to impunity for the most serious 
crimes  against  humanity,  regardless  of  who  commits 
such crimes. The second, no less important aim, was to 
provide justice to victims. Because that is a universal 
aspiration,  the  world  requires  that  there  be  no  room 
for  impunity  in  any  State.  In  that  regard,  Costa  Rica 
welcomes  the  accession  of  Palestine  to  the  Rome 
Statute,  which  brings  the  number  of  States  parties  to 
123. We reiterate the importance of continued efforts to 
promote ratification of the Statute until it is universal.
With regard to the common goal of putting an end 
to impunity for atrocity crimes, my delegation recalls 
that the ICC is a Court of last resort and was not created 
to  replace  domestic  courts.  The  responsibility  to 
investigate and prosecute crimes under its jurisdiction 
belongs first to the justice systems of each State. That 
is  why  complementarity  is  an  essential  element  of 
entrenching a system of international criminal justice. 
Nevertheless, it is important to be clear that, once the 
Court’s jurisdiction is activated in accordance with the 
Rome Statute, States parties must fulfil the unavoidable 
responsibilities  that  flow  from  the  Statute.  In  that 
regard, cooperation with the Court is key not only for 
accountability, but also because any lack of cooperation 
means  that  victims  are  prevented  from  seeing  justice 
done and receiving the reparations that they call for and 
deserve. Our main obligation is to victims.
The  next  point  I  should  like  to  mention  is  the 
financial situation of the Court, and the possibility that, 
owing to budget constraints, the Court’s very important 
work could be threatened. The Court currently has the 
heaviest  workload  in  its  history.  We  cannot  allow  its 
work and its effective responses to be contingent on an 
inappropriate budget. Costa Rica is convinced that the 
benefits of investing in international justice for peace, 
12/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
coexistence  and  human  dignity  will  far  surpass  the 
costs.
carried out by the Prosecutor in the period covered by 
the report represent cases across three continents.
With  regard  to  that  point,  my  delegation  would 
like to refer to cooperation between the Court and the 
United  Nations,  which  is  based  on  the  relationship 
agreement  between  the  two  organizations  signed  on 
14 October 2004. That cooperation has been developing 
in  a  positive  way  and  has  led  to  tangible  benefits  for 
both  organizations.  Nevertheless,  Costa  Rica  once 
again  reiterates  the  need  to  address  the  issue  of  the 
financing of activities as a result of the referral of cases 
to  the  Criminal  Court  by  the  United  Nations.  Due  to 
the fact that the Charter of the United Nations confers 
the responsibility for international peace and security 
on the Security Council, in taking on such referrals the 
Court  is  helping  the  Council  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  In 
such cases of cooperation, article 13 of the Agreement 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations  should  be 
implemented  without  delay.  That  article  calls  for  an 
economic  contribution  by  the  United  Nations  for  the 
activities of the Court. The agreement is clear in that 
such  contributions  should  be  made  through  decisions 
of  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation  hopes  that 
such support will very soon materialize via the proper 
channels.
With  regard  to  referrals,  my  delegation  reiterates 
that  the  Security  Council  would  benefit  from  a 
uniform,  predictable  and  transparent  protocol  for 
referring cases to the Court. On this issue Costa Rica 
welcomes France’s proposal for permanent members of 
the  Council  to  adhere  to  a  code  of  conduct  by  which 
they  commit  themselves  not  to  use  the  veto  cases 
involving mass atrocities. We also support the proposal 
of  Liechtenstein  on  behalf  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group  to  establish  a 
broader and more concrete code of conduct.
With  regard  to  the  geographical  location  of  the 
cases before the Court and the insinuation that it is due 
to a biased Court, my delegation would respectfully like 
to  recall  that,  of  the  nine  situations  before  the  Court, 
five  were  referred  by  States  themselves.  Another  two 
situations  were  referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Security 
Council.  Therefore,  only  two  of  the  situations  were 
raised  by  the  Prosecutor’s  Office.  In  addition,  one  of 
those  situations  was  raised  following  a  declaration 
by  the  State  involved  under  article  12.3  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  I  mention  this  by  way  of  clarification  for  the 
benefit of those who may have had any doubts. We would 
also like to recall that the 10 preliminary examinations 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  reiterates  its  full 
commitment  to  the  international  criminal  justice 
system  and  to  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
respectfully  call  on  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  to  continue  supporting  the  fight 
against impunity and to continue to support efforts to 
bring justice to the victims of mass atrocities.
Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Ecuador  would  like  to  acknowldge 
the presence at the General Assembly of the President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge 
Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  to  present  the  report 
(see A/70/350) on the work of the Court in the period 
spanning 2014-2015, dated 28 August.
The  delegation  of  Ecuador  welcomes  the  report, 
which  relates,  among  other  things,  the  following 
achievements:  preliminary  examinations  conducted 
by  the  Prosecutor,  rulings  of  the  Court  on  appeals 
proceedings,  the  election  of  seven  new  judges  and  of 
the President of the Court, the election of the President 
of the Assembly of States Parties and the accession of 
Palestine,  which  became  the  123rd  State  party  to  the 
Statute — a significant step towards the much-hoped-
for universality of the Rome Statute.
Ecuador  reiterates  its  support  for  the  Court  as  a 
mechanism  that  has  unique  characteristics  to  fight 
impunity. We call on all States gathered here to provide 
their  support  so  that  the  Court  can  effectively  and 
tangibly  exercise  its  jurisdiction  over  individuals  in 
connection  with  its  competence  on  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community. 
The crime of genocide, crimes against humanity, war 
crimes  and  crimes  of  aggression,  which  are  subject 
to  the  complementary  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  can 
be  adequately  prosecuted  only  if  there  is  universal 
adherence by States to the Statute and if they provide 
the  necessary  cooperation  to  the  Court.  Certainly, 
that is the least we can do in the light of the fact that 
throughout its history humankind has witnessed so many 
events, including ones that continue in the present, that 
have resulted in so many victims — children, men and 
women  —  of  unimaginable  atrocities  that  boggle  the 
mind and deeply move the conscience of humankind, as 
highlighted by the preamble to the Statute.
However, Ecuador is very concerned about efforts 
to politicize and abuse the Rome Statute. My country 
15-35401
13/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
rejects  such  efforts  as  attempting  to  create  artificial 
environments  to  implement  the  Statute  so  as  to  give 
jurisdiction and competence to the Court — for example, 
through the resolutions of the Third Committee. That is 
all the more inappropriate given that the Statute allows 
countries to bring cases to the Court directly through 
the Security Council. Ecuador does not agree with that 
provision of the Statute, as it creates abuses. There are 
valid alternatives to beginning judicial proceedings to 
fight impunity without having to politicize justice.
Another issue of concern to Ecuador has to do with 
the cost entailed in the referrals made by the Security 
Council  to  the  Court.  Such  costs  should  be  borne  by 
the United Nations in accordance with its relationship 
agreement with the Court, which the General Assembly 
adopted by consensus.
My  country  advocates  for  the  universality  of  the 
Statute.  It  is  a  matter  of  combating  impunity  in  the 
framework  of  an  open  multilateral  treaty,  as  is  the 
Rome Statute. Therein also lies the importance of the 
amendments to the Rome Statute adopted in Kampala 
in 2010. What we adopted in Kampala should bind all 
of us. However, in order to encourage States to ratify 
the amendments and make progress in the fight against 
impunity, it is essential for other States also to accede 
to the Statute, particularly those that use it politically 
without  being  a  State  party  to  the  Statute.  I  must 
point out that the political constitution of my country 
contains a provision regarding no statute of limitations 
for  the  crime  of  aggression,  thereby  adhering  to  the 
fundamental  principles  set  out  in  the  Rome  Statute. 
Combating impunity is a cross-cutting element in the 
work of the United Nations. My country stands prepared 
to cooperate in the area of international law.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): My first words 
are to congratulate Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi 
on  her  election  as  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Brazil  is  particularly  pleased 
to note that four of the main offices of the ICC — its 
presidency,  both  vice-presidencies  and  the  Office  of 
the Prosecutor — are currently held by women. I join 
others  in  thanking  Judge  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for 
presenting the Court’s annual report (see A/70/350) to 
the General Assembly. I also take this opportunity to 
commend the Court for contributing to the fight against 
impunity and for promoting respect for the rule of law.
Brazil remains steadfast in its commitment to the 
Rome Statute system and to the cause of justice, which 
motivated  its  establishment.  As  an  instrument  for 
ensuring  that  those  accused  before  it  are  judged  with 
fairness and full respect for their human rights, the ICC 
is  a  vehicle  for  justice  and  peace.  The  foundations  of 
the legitimacy of the Rome Statute system lie not only 
in the independence of its organs, but also in its reach. 
Enhancing  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  will 
contribute  to  dispel  the  misperception  of  selectivity 
regarding the Court’s activities.
I am pleased to recall not only that all South American 
countries are parties to the Rome Statute, but also that 
Latin America and the Caribbean represents the second-
largest regional group among the States parties — only 
behind the Group of African States. Approximately two 
thirds  of  the  United  Nations  membership  has  ratified 
the Rome Statute, but it is still not universal. Every new 
ratification is an important step towards the promotion 
of peace and justice. Brazil welcomes the accession of 
Palestine to the Statute. States that exercise their right 
to join multilateral treaties, especially those conceived 
for  defending  human  rights  and  combating  impunity, 
should be welcomed, rather than met with reprisals and 
sanctions.
to 
the  outcomes  of 
In  that  context,  allow  me  to  underscore  the 
importance  we  attach 
the 
Kampala  Review  Conference,  in  which  Brazil  was 
an  active  participant.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
activation  of  the  amendment  regarding  the  crime  of 
aggression  —  hopefully  by  2017  —  will  represent  a 
major  contribution  to  completing  the  international 
criminal justice system.
As reported by President Fernández de Gurmendi, 
the ICC has reached an unprecedented level of activity, 
and  its  workload  is  increasing  significantly.  In  that 
context, I should like to recall my delegation’s concern 
with  regard  to  the  financing  of  Security  Council 
referrals,  an  issue  of  a  structural  nature  that  goes  to 
the core of the relationship between the Court and the 
United  Nations,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly. 
Once again we reiterate our call for the implementation 
of  article  13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  and  of 
article 115 (b) of the Rome Statute, which provide clear 
guidance  in  the  sense  that  such  costs  should  be  met 
by the United Nations and not fall to the parties to the 
Rome Statute. It is equally important to highlight that, 
as  set  out  in  Article  17  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, the General Assembly has the exclusive — and 
I underline exclusive — responsibility to consider and 
approve the budget of the Organization.
14/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
The  pursuit  of 
international 
justice  and 
Proper  funding  of  Security  Council  referrals  will 
enhance the credibility of both the ICC and the United 
Nations.  The  current  situation  is  not  sustainable,  as 
illustrated  on  5  November  when  the  ICC  Prosecutor 
called  attention  (see  S/PV.7549),  in  her  tenth  report 
to  the  Security  Council  on  the  situation  in  Libya,  to 
resource constraints that will prevent her Office from 
conducting additional investigative activities on Libya.
the 
achievement of lasting peace and security are mutually 
reinforcing objectives. Both the ICC and the Security 
Council have pivotal, albeit different, roles in pursuing 
those  objectives  in  a  uniform  manner  and  without 
selectivity.  The  quest  for  peace  and  justice  is  fraught 
with  challenges.  It  is  a  common  purpose  of  both  the 
United Nations and the ICC. Our efforts in that regard 
must  be  informed  by  the  shared  values  that  bring  the 
Assembly together and have made the first permanent, 
treaty-based International Criminal Court a reality.
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana):  Let  me,  at 
the 
outset,  convey  my  delegation’s  congratulations  and 
gratitude  to  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  on 
her  ascendance  to  the  presidency  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) as well as for her very insightful 
brief to the General Assembly. My delegation expresses 
its readiness and willingness to support her and other 
newly  elected  judges  of  the  Court  in  the  discharge  of 
the Court’s mandate. We also wish to offer our support 
to the President of the Assembly of States Parties for 
the continued discharge of his mandate.
Botswana  remains  a  strong  supporter  and  friend 
of  the  ICC.  To  that  end,  we  reiterate  our  unwavering 
commitment to contributing to a strong, effective and 
accountable international criminal justice system based 
on respect for the rule of law. Ever since its establishment, 
in 2002, the ICC has played a critical role in the lives 
of millions of people as a permanent court of last resort 
for victims of genocide, crimes against humanity and 
war  crimes.  From  all  corners  of  the  globe,  the  Court 
continues  to  be  a  useful  deterrent  in  pushing  back 
the frontiers of impunity, promoting the protection of 
human  rights  and  working  with  other  stakeholders  to 
bring  justice  to  victims  of  mass  atrocities.  The  Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court recognizes 
that  States  have  the  first  responsibility  and  right  to 
prosecute  international  crimes.  Where  national  legal 
systems either fail or are unwilling or unable to do so, 
then the Court may exercise its jurisdiction over such 
crimes.
As  former  Prosecutor  Luis  Moreno-Ocampo  once 
said,
“As  a  consequence  of  complementarity, 
the 
number  of  cases  that  reach  the  Court  should  not 
be a measure of its efficiency. On the contrary, the 
absence of trials before the Court, as a consequence 
of the regular functioning of national jurisdictions, 
would be a major success.”
We  therefore  wish  to  appreciate  the  support  and 
cooperation the Court continues to receive from various 
States parties, as well as non-State parties, to investigate 
cases and situations under the Court’s jurisdiction. We 
welcome  with  appreciation  the  report  (see  A/70/350) 
delivered  to  the  Assembly  by  the  President  of  the 
Court on the activities of the Court covering the period 
August 2014 to the end of July 2015. We take note that, 
currently,  the  Court  is  seized  of  21  cases  and  eight 
situations, mainly on the African continent. We are also 
well aware of the complexity, character and nature of 
the cases before the Court, as well as potential ones.
We  remain  convinced  that  there  are  numerous 
other potential cases deserving of the Court’s attention. 
We  also  recognize  that,  in  order  to  achieve  full 
accountability  for  the  gravest  international  crimes, 
the  Court  depends  entirely  on  the  willingness  and 
readiness of States to cooperate and enable it to have 
a universal outreach. In that respect, we welcome the 
support  and  assistance  the  Court  continues  to  receive 
from the United Nations system, as well as from civil 
society  and  States  parties,  to  promote  the  rule  of  law 
at the national and international levels. We know that 
these present a profound challenge to the Court in its 
pursuit  to  make  perpetrators  of  human  rights  abuses 
account for their deeds. As human rights violations and 
atrocity crimes continue to take place in other parts of 
the  world,  we  call  on  some  members  of  the  Security 
Council to refrain from frustrating initiatives to refer 
deserving cases to the ICC. We believe that in doing so 
the Council would enable the Court to cast its net wide 
and  would  not  be  perceived  to  be  unfairly  targeting 
certain regions of the world.
We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  support  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  its  quest  to  fight 
against impunity and to bring justice to the millions of 
men, women and children. We believe that the Security 
Council can do more to enable the ICC to complement 
the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United 
Nations  in  relation  to  justice  and  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
15-35401
15/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
Mr.  Martinsen  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  the  particular 
satisfaction of the Argentine Republic upon receiving 
this  first  report  (see  A/70/350)  of  the  new  President 
of  the  Court,  our  compatriot  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  as  well  as  to  warmly  congratulate  her  on 
her  election.  I  should  also  like  to  express  gratitude 
for  the  presentation  of  the  report  (A/70/317)  of  the 
Secretary-General on the implementation of article 3 of 
the relationship agreement between the United Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  report 
(A/70/346)  on  expenditures  and  reimbursements  in 
relation to assistance provided to the Court.
With regard to the update on the judicial activities 
of  the  Court  and  the  activities  of  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  it  has  been 
possible to move forward with activities both in terms 
of  preliminary  examinations  and  situations  and  cases 
under  the  charge  of  the  Court  in  fulfilment  of  its 
mandate and within the limit of the resources that have 
been allocated for that purpose. We call on all Member 
States  that  are  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to  bear  in 
mind the particular nature of the Court as they evaluate 
their own annual budgets, so that the Court’s budget can 
be approved at the next Assembly of States parties in 
order to allow the Court to fulfil its mandate and carry 
out its essential functions. We also encourage States to 
promote the streamlining of processes through positive 
consideration of the proposed amendments to the rules 
of procedure and rules of proof drafted by judges and 
debated within the focus group on governance.
With regard to the report’s section on international 
cooperation, I should like to refer to the relationship of 
the Court with the United Nations. Over the years since 
the entry into force of the Statute, the need to ensure 
greater accountability for crimes covered by the Rome 
Statute has been concretely integrated in United Nations 
deliberations and those of the international community 
as a whole. The Security Council has done the same and 
has incorporated the Court into its own consideration of 
specific situations. All of that has served to strengthen 
the fight against impunity. However, certain challenges 
remain that ought to be addressed.
The  relationship  between  the  Organization  and 
the  Court  is  crucial  and  should  always  respect  the 
judicial  independence  of  the  Court.  I  should  like  to 
recognize  the  directives  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
non-essential  contacts.  The  relationship  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Court  is  also  characterized 
by  the  relationship  of  the  Court  with  the  Security 
Council. That organ is empowered to make referrals to 
the Court, which it has in fact done in two situations. 
For  years,  Argentina  has  expressed  some  concerns, 
both  in  the  General  Assembly  and  in  the  Security 
Council  as  a  non-permanent  member.  In  accordance 
with the Rome Statute, when it comes to referrals the 
Court exercises its jurisdiction over nationals of States 
parties  and  the  nationals  of  non-States  parties  to  the 
Statute.  No  decision  by  the  Security  Council  has  the 
capacity to change the norms of the Statute with regard 
to the jurisdiction of the Court to provide immunity to 
nationals of non-States parties who commit crimes that 
are covered by the Statute. That is in the context of a 
situation that is referred to the Court.
I should like to reiterate that to date the financial 
cost  of  the  referrals  made  by  the  Security  Council  to 
the  Court  have  been  covered  exclusively  by  States 
parties. The Rome Statute provides that such costs must 
be borne by the United Nations. That is also reflected 
in  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations and the Court, which the Assembly adopted by 
consensus. Argentina and other Members of the United 
Nations have questioned the unfortunate practice of the 
Security  Council  in  terms  of  funding  those  referrals, 
despite  the  fact  that  a  large  majority  supports  full 
compliance  with  sub-paragraph  (b)  of  article  115  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  article  13  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement.  Fighting  impunity  is  a  goal  of  the  States 
parties to the Rome Statute and of the United Nations. 
But that objective also needs to be accompanied by a 
commitment  to  provide  the  Court  with  the  necessary 
resources  to  fulfil  its  functions.  That  commitment  is 
not  an  alien  concept  at  the  United  Nations,  given  the 
experience  with  the  ad  hoc  Tribunals  set  up  by  the 
Council. We now need to address the issue as it relates 
to the International Criminal Court. The lack of action 
in that regard could jeopardize the sustainability of the 
investigations carried out by the Court and can have an 
impact on the credibility of the Organization.
In conclusion, Argentina would like to emphasize 
that  the  significant  contribution  of  the  International 
Criminal Court to fighting impunity for the most serious 
crimes  of  international  concern  is  also  a  contribution 
to  the  objectives  of  the  Organization.  As  indicated 
in  the  Kampala  Declaration,  there  is  a  noble  mission 
and  function  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in 
the  multilateral  system,  the  objective  of  putting  an 
end to impunity, establishing the rule of law, fostering 
respect  for  human  rights  and  achieving  lasting  peace 
16/18 
15-35401
06/11/2015 
A/70/PV.49
in accordance with international law and the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We 
reiterate  the  firm  commitment  of  our  country  to  the 
work of the International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Minami  (Japan):At  the  outset,  I  should  like 
to  thank  President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for 
her comprehensive report (see A/70/350) on the work of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Japan’s  basic 
policy  towards  the  Court  is  to  enable  it  to  function 
effectively in a sustainable manner, with the support of 
the  international  community.  Japan  is  proud  of  being 
the largest financial contributor and of sending capable 
human resources, including judges, to the Court.
While  the  ICC  has  demonstrated  progress  in  the 
past 13 years, some challenges still remain. One of them 
is the sustainability of the Court. The Court has been 
exercising  its  jurisdiction  over  nine  situations,  more 
than 10 suspects remain at large and nine preliminary 
examinations are still going on. However, its financial 
and  human  resources  are  limited  and  should  be  used 
in  a  most  efficient  manner.  My  delegation  supports 
the lessons-learned initiative of the Court and closely 
follows the work of the study group on governance in 
The Hague.
Another challenge is the effectiveness of the Court. 
We see issues related to executing arrest warrants and 
collecting evidence. Its experience in the past 13 years 
tells  us  that  cooperation  among  the  States  concerned 
is  one  of  the  key  elements  for  a  more  effective 
implementation of the Rome Statute.
My delegation is of the view that capacity-building 
in  legislation  and  the  criminal  justice  systems  of  the 
States concerned can serve justice and reconciliation, 
and  thereby  contribute  to  effective  cooperation  from 
them.  Enhanced  capacity  will  also  enable  national 
authorities 
to  conduct 
investigation,  prosecution  and  punishment  in  close 
cooperation with the international community. Japan is 
willing to play a positive role in the field of capacity-
building.
the  States  concerned 
in 
Cooperation  is  also  crucial  in  situations  referred 
to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council.  The  ICC  can 
function  more  effectively  when  the  Council  follows 
up such situations in close cooperation with the Court 
and the States concerned. With the support of Member 
States,  Japan  will  become  a  member  of  the  Security 
Council from January next year. My delegation wishes 
to  contribute  to  further  deepening  dialogue  and 
cooperation  between  the  two  bodies  from  inside  the 
Council.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  the  sincere 
appreciation  of  Japan  for  the  work  that  the  ICC  has 
accomplished to date. It is our hope that the ICC will 
continue to work diligently in the fight against impunity 
and  to  consolidate  its  credibility  and  reputation  both 
inside and outside the Rome Statute system. Japan, for 
its part, is determined to strengthen its contribution to 
the ICC, and consequently to the establishment of the 
rule of law in the international community.
Mr. Rhee Zha-hyoung (Republic of Korea): At the 
outset, we would like to extend our warm congratulations 
to  President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  together 
with the two Vice-Presidents, on their elections to the 
presidency of the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
We also welcome the seven judges newly elected during 
the  reporting  period.  While  thanking  the  President 
for  her  comprehensive  presentation  of  the  report 
(see  A/70/350),  we  cannot  fail  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation to those in all organs of the Court for their 
hard work and dedication.
As  emphasized  by  previous  speakers,  the  Rome 
Statute  reaffirms  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. As we are all aware, the 
three pillars of the work of the United Nations — peace 
and security, development and human rights — depend 
heavily on securing criminal justice at both national and 
international levels, especially for those serious crimes 
of concern to the international community as a whole. 
That is all the more so considering the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (General Assembly resolution 
70/1),  which  includes  various  elements  concerning 
justice,  the  rule  of  law  and  accountability.  In  that 
regard,  we  support  the  ongoing  cooperation  between 
the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  on  various  levels,  as 
presented in the report and the presentation, especially 
those cooperative activities in the field.
For  the  past  13  years,  the  ICC  has  been  making 
steady  contributions  to  helping  end  impunity  for  the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes,  and  its  work 
is  laudable.  That  being  the  case,  the  ICC,  now  as  a 
teenager  on  its  path  to  adulthood,  has  to  overcome  a 
number of growing pains to establish itself as a robust 
and solid institution for international criminal justice.
First,  it  is  imperative  that  the  ICC  enhance 
efficiency  at  various  stages,  especially  given  the 
expectation of four trials running simultaneously next 
15-35401
17/18
A/70/PV.49 
06/11/2015
year and of heavier caseloads for the following years. In 
that regard, we welcome the remarks by the President 
that  all  organs  of  the  Court  are  actively  engaged  in 
important reforms towards enhancing the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the institution, and hope for continued 
efforts  to  achieve  that  goal.  We  especially  appreciate 
the recent publication of the pre-trial practice manual.
Secondly, the number of States parties to the Rome 
Statute  has  more  than  doubled  since  the  Statute’s 
entry  into  force,  in  2002.  That  is  truly  a  remarkable 
achievement. Nevertheless, the number still falls short 
of the two thirds of the States Members of the United 
Nations.  Securing  universality  is  part  and  parcel  of 
ending  impunity  for  perpetrators  of  atrocity  crimes 
wherever  such  crimes  are  committed.  It  also  helps  to 
enhance the credibility of the Court and the deterrence 
of  crimes.  As  such,  continued  efforts  for  universality 
should be made by both the Court and States parties.
of 
Thirdly,  cooperation  at  every  step  of 
the 
process  continues  to  be  an  essential  component  of 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Court  and  of  the  genuine 
meaningfulness 
Cooperation 
between  the  ICC  and  States  parties  is  vital  and  has 
been  reinforced  by  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties, 
international organizations, civil society organizations 
and  non-party  Member  States  as  well.  It  is  quite 
encouraging that two suspects were transferred to the 
ICC with the cooperation of States parties during the 
universality. 
reporting period. However, as is still the case, the ICC 
suffers  from  a  lack  of  full  cooperation.  States  parties 
must be further encouraged to investigate grave crimes 
within  their  borders  and  prosecute  or  extradite  the 
criminals  based  on  the  principle  of  complementarity. 
The ICC, together with States parties and other entities 
mentioned  above,  must  help  improve  the  judicial 
capacity and overall competency of States parties at the 
national level by offering assistance and expertise. In 
cases of non-compliance or non-cooperation, we must 
assess the underlying reasons and develop strategies to 
encourage more cooperative engagement.
to  establish 
The Republic of Korea has been a staunch supporter 
of  the  ICC  since  its  inception.  As  a  member  of  the 
Bureau, we are actively participating in the concerted 
efforts 
the  responsible, 
universal and efficient institution to end impunity for 
the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  against 
humankind. We will continue to spare no effort in that 
noble and significant endeavour, both at the ICC and at 
the United Nations.
the  ICC  as 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 78?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.
18/18 
15-35401
