United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
46th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 4 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.46
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 118
Follow-up to the commemoration of the 
two-hundredth anniversary of the abolition 
of the transatlantic slave trade
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/70/136 
and A/70/221)
Draft resolution (A/70/L.5)
The  President:  Today’s  debate  is  an  excellent 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  history,  lessons  learned  and 
progress  made  since  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  the 
slave trade. Without any doubt, slavery remains one of 
the darkest chapters in our past, and in this seventieth 
anniversary year of the United Nations it is timely that 
we  recommit  ourselves  to  raising  public  awareness 
about its legacy of unprecedented horror.
As  we  meet  today  we  should  continue  to  honour 
the  enslaved  Africans  and  their  descendants  and 
recognize  their  respective  contributions  to  our  world 
and societies. The latest report of the Secretary-General 
(see A/70/221) highlights the educational outreach and 
public-awareness  efforts  undertaken  to  commemorate 
and honour the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade. In this regard, I commend the Department 
of Public Information for selecting the topic “Women 
and  slavery”  as  the  theme  for  2015.  As  one  historian 
tells  us,  to  be  a  slave  and  female  was  a  triple-edged 
sword — a slave woman was black in a white society, a 
slave in a free society, and a woman in a society ruled 
by men.
Despite  the  hardships,  enslaved  African  women 
were largely responsible for preserving and passing on 
the  culture  and  traditions  that  form  such  an  integral 
part  of  the  African  diaspora  of  the  Americas  and  the 
Caribbean  that  we  know  today.  This  year’s  theme 
therefore  is  timely  and  relevant,  and  we  should  pay 
tribute to those women who contributed immensely to 
the abolition of slavery and the creation of our societies. 
I  should  like  to  commend  the  sustained  commitment 
and  actions  of  Member  States  to  ensure  that  this 
issue  remains  a  priority  of  the  General  Assembly.  In 
particular  I  wish  to  recognize  the  dedication  of  the 
States members of the Caribbean Community and the 
Group of African States for their efforts over the years.
Let  me  also  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate 
the  Permanent  Memorial  Committee  for  its  tireless 
efforts,  which  resulted 
the  construction  and 
unveiling earlier this year of the permanent memorial 
to  honour  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade.  We  are  thankful  also  to  those  Member 
States, organizations and individuals who contributed 
to the creation of the memorial and eagerly anticipate 
the  conclusion  of  the  final  steps  in  the  project.  I 
look  forward  also  to  the  collaboration  between  the 
Secretariat and States members of the Assembly aimed 
at promoting the annual observation of the International 
Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Slavery and the 
Transatlantic Slave Trade as reflected in the reports of 
the Secretary-General.
in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-34949 (E)
*1534949*
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
While significant progress has been achieved since 
the abolition of slavery and the slave trade, the struggles 
of millions of descendants of enslaved Africans did not 
end with the close of that dark chapter. The challenge 
facing us all today is to take concerted action to fight 
all  forms  of  discrimination,  including  institutional 
racism  and  gender  discrimination,  and  to  eradicate 
contemporary  forms  and  manifestations  of  slavery, 
including sexual slavery, of which women and girls are 
the primary victims. Many of these matters are at the 
core of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1),  whose 
implementation  must  be 
a  priority  for  all  Governments  and  for  all  of  us.  It  is 
crucial also that we maintain our political commitment 
to  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and all other 
international  human  rights  standards  relevant  also  to 
this case.
I now give the floor to the representative of Jamaica 
to introduce draft resolution A/70/L.5.
Ms. Richards (Jamaica): I am honoured to introduce 
draft  resolution  A/70/L.5  for  the  consideration  of  the 
Assembly.  The  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
and  African  member  States  collaborated  with  a  wide 
range of partners to arrive at a text that truly reflects 
the  consensus  which  similar  resolutions  have  enjoyed 
over past years. The draft, as is customary, enjoys the 
full support of the membership, as demonstrated in its 
sponsorship by the vast majority of Member States.
I thank the Secretary-General for the two reports 
submitted  under  this  agenda  item,  the  first  being  on 
the  status  of  the  Trust  Fund  and  the  second  on  the 
educational  outreach  activities  on  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade.
Since  the  General  Assembly’s  last  consideration 
of  this  agenda  item,  we  have  achieved  a  lot.  Most 
significantly,  the  permanent  memorial  was  completed 
and  unveiled  on  25  March  2015.  The  Ark  of  Return
now  occupies  a  prominent  place  here  at  United 
Nations Headquarters, in keeping with the decision of 
successive  resolutions.  Visitors  to  the  United  Nations 
are not only struck by its captivating presence but also 
drawn to its symbolism and interactive nature. I use this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  the  gratitude  of  the  members 
of the Permanent Memorial Committee, which Jamaica 
has had the honour to chair, for the steadfast support of 
the membership towards the completion of the project. 
The  financial  contributions  made  are  reflected  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  and  every  dollar  has  been 
prudently  managed  by  the  United  Nations  Office  for 
Partnerships. 
The  outpouring  of  financial  support  in  the  final 
weeks  of  the  fundraising  campaign,  reinvigorated  in 
earnest at a pledging luncheon last December, ensured 
that all the funds required were raised. I am proud to 
say that the memorial has been completed on time and 
on  budget.  This  has  been  due  in  no  small  measure  to 
the support received and also to the collaboration with 
the  Department  of  Management,  the  capital  master 
plan and the architect and designer, Mr. Rodney Leon, 
whose professionalism and dedication was exemplary.
I encourage everyone to pay a visit to the memorial 
and  to  spend  what  will  prove  to  be  a  worthwhile  few 
moments  of  reflection  to  acknowledge  the  tragedy 
and to consider the legacy. The Ark of Return is not a 
memorial  just  for  people  of  African  descent;  it  is  the 
United Nations memorial; it belongs to us all.
The Ark of Return has been erected, yet our work 
does  not  cease.  As  demonstrated  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report on the educational outreach activities 
(A/70/221),  there  remains  broad  scope  for  actions 
to  teach  present  and  future  generations  about  what 
slavery  truly  was,  how  it  was  sustained,  how  it  was 
opposed,  how  it  was  defeated,  and,  very  importantly, 
what lingering legacies remain for us to address. The 
work  being  undertaken  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Information,  both  at  Headquarters  and  globally, 
is  of  utmost  importance  so  that  the  message  of  the 
memorial  can  be  disseminated  widely.  Within  each 
of our countries and regions there is work to be done 
to  address  systemic  and  ingrained  legacies  that  often 
result in discrimination and other disparate challenges 
faced by the descendants of African slaves.
We  face  injustice  where  we  seek  justice;  we 
encounter  suppression  where  we  seek  empowerment; 
we suffer marginalization where we seek recognition. 
There  are  social,  economic  and  psychological  scars 
that need to be healed in order for us to properly move 
forward.  And  while  some  of  that  healing  must  of 
necessity come from within, it is undeniable that much 
more must come from outside.
It is quite disappointing that so few Member States 
contributed  information  on  the  activities  they  are 
undertaking  to  ensure  that  the  lessons  of  slavery  are 
taught within their jurisdictions. I encourage Member 
States 
implement  programmes  and  activities, 
including with the support of the United Nations system, 
to 
2/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
in particular UNESCO, which has excellent resources, 
such as its Slave Route project and the General History 
of Africa project. 
Implementing  such  programmes  and  activities 
serves to bolster our collective efforts to build a world 
of justice and equality, where slavery is eliminated and 
its tragic effects are reversed. Let us take the message 
of the memorial as our guide. We should acknowledge 
the tragedy. Let us teach the facts and the impacts. We 
should  consider  the  legacy.  Let  us  address  systemic 
imbalances,  redress  wrongs  and  defeat  modern-day 
slavery. We should never forget.
Mr.  Kataria  (India):  I  should  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his reports under the agenda item. 
I should also like to pay a rich tribute to Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica, for his tireless efforts in making the permanent 
memorial Ark of Return a reality.
The evil of slavery was deeply rooted in economic 
greed,  racism  and  different  forms  of  discrimination 
during  the  period  of  colonization  and  imperialism. 
Millions  lost  their  lives,  during  the  unprecedented 
middle  passage.  African  civilization  was  torn  apart, 
and  it  left  an  indelible  mark  on  society  for  many 
generations.  In  this  context,  I  must  recall  that  Prime 
Minister  Jawaharlal  Nehru,  speaking  at  the  Asian-
African  Conference  at  Bandung  in  1955,  in  referring 
to transatlantic slavery, declared that there was nothing 
more terrible, nothing more horrible, than the infinite 
tragedy of Africa in the past few hundred years.
The historic unveiling of the permanent memorial 
Ark of Return at the United Nations in March this year 
was  a  small  but  significant  gesture  of  remembrance 
to  the  victims  of  slavery  who  perished  in  dark 
oblivion.  It  symbolizes  long-overdue  condemnation 
by  the  international  community,  which  will  remind 
generations  to  come  of  the  four-century-long  grief 
and  tragedy  borne  by  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade.
India  remembers  its  own  tragedy  of  colonialism 
and  the  export  of  indentured  labour,  which  was 
initiated  to  replace  freed  slaves  on  sugar  plantations 
in  British  colonies  in  the  1830s.  We  welcome  the 
UNESCO  International  Indentured  Labour  Route 
project  as  a  complement  to  the  Slave  Route  project. 
India’s  contribution  of  $260,000  to  the  memorial 
Trust  Fund  reflects  its  sharing  the  pain  and  suffering 
of  the  affected  countries  and  their  people.  We  are 
happy to co-sponsor draft resolution A/70/L.5, entitled 
“Permanent  memorial  to  and  remembrance  of  the 
victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade”, 
introduced  by  the  Caribbean  Community,  which  we 
have been co-sponsoring since 2007.
The  Slave  Route  project  of  UNESCO  has 
contributed  immensely  to  raising  awareness  of  the 
history  and  consequences  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade and slavery. The recognition of 2015-2024 as the 
International  Decade  for  People  of  African  Descent 
provides us the opportunity to showcase and recognize 
the important contribution made by people of African 
descent to modern societies. 
The  international  community  must  utilize  the 
opportunity in the implementation of Agenda 2030 to 
redouble its efforts and allocate more resources for the 
promotion  and  preservation  of  the  dignity  and  worth 
of all human beings, especially vulnerable women and 
girls, and the fight for the complete abolition of slavery 
in  all  its  contemporary  manifestations  and  forms  as 
envisioned in the Durban Declaration.
Mr. Amihai Bivas (Israel): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for convening this meeting. We also thank the delegation 
of  Jamaica  for  its  leadership  on  this  issue,  and  we 
recognize the many other Caribbean and African States 
that have lent momentum to the drive to formally honour 
the victims of slavery and the transatlantic trade.
Earlier  this  year,  on  a  cold,  grey  March  day,  the 
efforts  of  many  Member  States,  organizations  and 
individuals  came  to  fruition.  With  the  unveiling  of 
the  permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of  slavery, 
the Ark of Return, visitors and diplomats will now be 
starkly reminded of the unnamed millions who endured 
unspeakable  suffering,  and  those  who  perished.  With 
the  completion  of  the  memorial,  one  chapter  of  our 
work  has  come  to  a  close.  And  while  we  have  good 
reason to be satisfied with this accomplishment — long 
overdue — we must now turn to the work ahead.
the 
stresses, 
As  draft 
responsibility 
the  causes, 
consequences  and  lessons  of  slavery  falls  to  us,  as 
Member  States  and  as  individuals.  In  this  regard,  we 
support the efforts of the United Nations, including the 
activities of the Department of Public Information, to 
teach  these  lessons  across  cultures  and  generations, 
and  we  encourage  all  Member  States  to  do  the  same. 
In  adopting  the  draft  resolution,  Member  States 
will  recognize  the  indomitable  spirit  of  the  millions 
resolution  A/70/L.5 
for  educating  about 
15-34949
3/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
of  slavery’s  victims,  and  in  their  honour,  pledge  to 
continue to teach the lessons of the past.
One of the most important holidays on the Jewish 
calendar  is  the  observance  of  Passover.  The  holiday 
recalls  the  400  years  of  bitter  slavery  of  the  Jewish 
people and celebrates the joy of freedom gained after 
generations  in  bondage.  A  key  part  of  that  holiday, 
also known as the Feast of Freedom, is the relating of 
this epic story to the next generation. In fact, the act of 
carefully teaching it is so important that the Passover 
observance has changed little for hundreds of years.
I  mention  this  because  a  crucial  purpose  of 
teaching  and  honouring  the  past  is  to  inform  how  we 
act today and how we influence future generations. Our 
knowledge and understanding of past injustice should 
compel us to act whenever it echoes in the present. We 
must therefore recognize that the long arm of slavery 
continues to touch the modern world. Slavery’s legacy 
lives  on  in  discrimination  and  inequality,  racism 
and  prejudice.  The  most  fitting  tribute  we  can  pay  to 
slavery’s victims is by addressing these issues and by 
committing  ourselves  to  fighting  modern-day  slavery 
in  all  its  forms.  Wherever  a  child  is  forced  into  hard 
labour, wherever a person is sold into prostitution, we 
must put into action the responsibility that comes with 
memory.
In conclusion, Israel is proud to have played its part 
in honouring the memory of the victims of slavery by 
contributing to the Permanent Memorial Fund and by 
co-sponsoring the present draft resolution, as we have 
done each year. We are grateful for this opportunity.
Mr. Kaganda (United Republic of Tanzania): My 
delegation thanks you, Mr. President, for convening this 
important meeting to consider agenda item 118, entitled 
“Follow-up to the commemoration of the two-hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade”. We thank and commend the Permanent Mission 
of Jamaica to the United Nations and members of the 
Caribbean  Community  for  the  facilitation  of  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.5,  to  be  adopted  under  this  agenda 
item, which Tanzania and other members of the Group 
of African States have naturally co-sponsored.
We  wish  to  extend  a  word  of  appreciation  to  our 
illustrious  Secretary-General 
the 
implementation of the resolutions adopted by this body 
under  this  item,  as  illustrated  in  his  recent  reports 
before us.
for  overseeing 
Slavery and the slave trade across the Atlantic, on 
the  shores  of  the  Indian  Ocean  and  elsewhere,  were 
a  global  tragedy  whose  legacy  must  be  shared  with 
present and future generations with a view to preventing 
its  recurrence  in  any  shape  or  form.  That  is  why  my 
delegation  welcomes  the  eighth  annual  observance  of 
the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims 
of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade under the 
theme “Women and slavery”, which coincided with the 
unveiling of the permanent memorial the Ark of Return, 
in honour of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade.
We are delighted that the Ark has found a permanent 
and prominent berth at the United Nations Headquarters. 
We  hope  and  believe  that  the  memorial  will  help 
visitors, the general public, students, delegates, United 
Nations staff, and other stakeholders to appreciate the 
tragedy  and  consider  the  legacy  of  slavery  in  general 
and the transatlantic slave trade in particular. Whereas 
the memorial sufficiently presents a sombre portrayal 
of  the  tragedy,  it  would  benefit  a  great  deal  from  the 
application  of  audio  guide  technology  providing  a 
recorded spoken commentary to visitors.
The  permanent  memorial  initiative  is  a  great 
success. As such, we would like to thank and commend 
the  Permanent  Memorial  Committee  for  its  tireless 
efforts  to  ensure  its  successful  completion.  We  also 
thank  the  Department  of  Public  Information,  the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session, and partners such as UNESCO for 
ensuring the successful observance of the International 
Day.  We  acknowledge  the  significance  of  the  United 
Nations  Trust  Fund  for  Partnerships  —  Permanent 
Memorial, and thank all Member States, organizations 
and individuals that have generously contributed to it.
to 
Modern  forms  of  slavery  persist  in  many  parts 
of  the  world  despite  its  abolition  and  classification 
as  a  crime  against  humanity.  According 
the 
International  Labour  Organization,  around  21  million 
men,  women  and  children  globally  live  in  some  form 
of  slavery,  generating  a  profit  of  around  $150  billion 
a  year  to  unscrupulous  operators  and  criminal  gangs. 
Devastatingly,  some  of  the  victims  of  this  vice  are 
descendants  of  persons  who  experienced  the  horrors 
of the transatlantic slave trade, and hence are reliving 
a  fraction  of  the  dark  history  of  the  past.  In  that 
vein,  resolution  61/19  could  not  be  more  accurate  in 
recognizing that the slave trade and slavery are at the 
heart  of  situations  of  profound  social  and  economic 
4/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
inequality, hatred, bigotry, racism and prejudice, which 
affects  people  of  African  descent  today.  Against  this 
background, we would like to underscore the following.
First,  we  recognize  the  importance  of  educating 
and informing current and future generations about the 
tragedy,  lessons,  history  and  consequences  of  slavery 
and  the  slave  trade,  which,  as  was  once  described  in 
this Hall, represents one of the low points in the history 
of humanity.
recognize 
the 
Secondly,  we 
importance  of 
upholding  human  rights,  especially  pertaining  to  the 
equality  and  dignity  of  all  humankind,  without  any 
distinction. We note that the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights  adopted  by  this  body  in  1948  declares 
that no one shall be held in slavery or servitude and that 
slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their 
forms. We must enforce these rights, including through 
the  enactment  of  appropriate  national  legislation.  We 
must also put into effect the relevant provisions of the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, which 
is as relevant today as it was almost a decade and a half 
ago.
Thirdly and finally, we recognize the importance of 
eradicating poverty in all its forms and manifestations, 
and  of  addressing  the  chronic  inequality  that  persists 
among  and  within  countries  and  communities.  We 
know  too  well  that  poverty,  protracted  inequality, 
socioeconomic  and  political  exclusion,  as  well 
as  conflicts,  expose 
the  vulnerable  members  of 
society  —  especially  women,  girls  and  boys  —  to  a 
myriad of misfortunes, including modern-day slavery, 
sexual  violence  and  abuse.  It  is  very  opportune, 
therefore, 
including 
in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  African  Union 
Agenda  2063,  which  we  have  recently  adopted.  We 
need to forge greater partnerships to address the root 
causes of these problems. Failure is not an option.
these  challenges, 
to  address 
like 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would 
to 
pay  a  glowing  tribute  to  the  many  enslaved  women 
who  endured  untold  suffering  and  abuse  from  their 
tormentors, who advocated the abolition of slavery and 
the slave trade, and who succeeded in transmitting the 
rich and vibrant African culture to their descendants. 
Their  incredible  fortitude  and  steadfastness,  which 
Ms. Sylviane Diouf eloquently described in her keynote 
address in March (see A/69/PV.83) and which actresses 
such  as  Lupita  Nyong’o,  Aunjanue  Ellis  and  Oprah 
Winfrey  magnificently  depicted  in  their  films  Twelve 
Years a Slave, The Book of Negroes and Beloved, will 
never  be  forgotten.  We  all  have  a  duty  to  prevent  the 
horrors  of  yesteryear,  and  work  towards  building  a 
prosperous future for all humankind, a future free from 
slavery  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  It  can  be 
done. We must play our part.
Mr.  Ruiz  Blanco  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
recognize that slavery and the transatlantic slave trade 
were  atrocious  tragedies  of  human  history,  not  only 
because  of  their  abhorrent  barbarism  but  because  of 
their  magnitude,  their  organized  character  and,  in 
particular,  their  denial  of  the  essence  of  the  victims. 
The  Declaration  also  recognizes  that  slavery  and  the 
slave  trade,  in  particular  the  transatlantic  slave  trade, 
constitute and should always have constituted a crime 
against humanity.
In the framework of this commemoration, Colombia 
celebrates  the  imminent  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.5,  on  the  permanent  memorial  recalling  the 
victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade, and 
is  pleased  to  join  the  group  of  sponsors,  as  we  have 
traditionally done on this subject. We also celebrate the 
placement of the Ark of Return on the grounds of the 
United Nations as a permanent memorial to the victims 
and a recognition of their tragedy, the legacy of their 
lives and, in many cases, their heroic resistance.
The communities of people of African descent now 
living in all regions of the world have trod a long road 
to claim their rights and have raised their voices in our 
societies,  generating  awareness  of  human  rights  and 
contributing  invaluably  to  our  cultures  and  identities 
as  peoples  and  nations.  In  America,  Colombia  was 
particularly enriched by the cultural contributions and 
labour of the black people whom the transatlantic slave 
trade  brought  to  our  lands.  Cities  such  as  Cartagena, 
Popayán and Santafé de Antioquia received this bitter 
legacy. The millions of men and women brought from 
Africa  are  embodied  in  our  most  important  cultural 
manifestations  —  our  language,  our  cuisine,  science 
and  art.  We  also  recall  the  contributions  to  freedom 
made  by  the  descendants  of  Bantus,  Anzicos,  Minas, 
Viásfaras  and  Congos  to  American  countries,  in 
particular Colombia, with the struggles waged by their 
autonomous communities of runaway slaves, including 
their own patriot armies.
For  these  reasons,  there  is  a  long  cultural  and 
life-affirming bridge between our countries and African 
countries  that  makes  it  unthinkable  to  discriminate 
15-34949
5/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
against them on the basis of their former enslavement. 
The  presence  of  cultures  of  African  origin  enriched 
our  nationality  and  gave  it  a  multicultural  character 
of  rich  human  content.  Colombia  is  a  multi-ethnic 
country, and our African origin is claimed as one of our 
greatest assets. In this context, Colombia reiterates the 
importance  of  resolution  69/16,  which  proclaimed  the 
“International  Decade  for  People  of  African  Descent: 
recognition,  justice  and  development”.  We  believe 
that  this  proclamation  constitutes  a  great  opportunity 
for  Governments,  civil  society  and  the  international 
community to pool their efforts in the common purpose 
to  adopt  effective  public  policies  aimed  at  making  a 
difference over the next 10 years.
The  International  Decade  for  People  of  African 
the  General 
Descent  2015-2024,  proclaimed  by 
Assembly  and  welcomed  by  the  countries  of  Latin 
America and the world, opens a window for redressing 
the human catastrophe of the transatlantic slave trade, 
based on the fact that it is not possible in any part of 
the  world  to  build  a  nation  from  the  starting  point  of 
the  exclusion,  invisibility  and  denial  of  the  other,  in 
particular when that other gave his and her life to the 
material  and  symbolic  wealth  of  our  countries  and 
societies.  The  Decade  seeks  recognition  on  the  part 
of the international community that people of African 
descent represent a specific group whose human rights 
must be promoted and protected. The communities of 
people  of  African  descent  have  the  right  to  equality, 
non-discrimination,  education,  ethno-education  and 
participation and inclusion in society.
In Colombia, the Decade was launched on 21 May 
through a national campaign entitled “La hora contra el 
racismo”. A few months later, a national development 
plan enshrined in law the commitment of the Colombian 
State to the Decade through measures such as a 10-year 
plan  for  the  Afro-Colombian  population,  a  special 
statute  for  the  Raizals  —  the  black  communities  of 
San  Andrés,  one  of  our  island  communities  in  the 
Caribbean  —  and  compensation  for  the  property 
tax  imposed  on  the  collective  territories  of  the  black 
communities.
Recognition  of  multicultural  and  plural  ethnicity 
launched 
by  my  country’s  political  Constitution 
a  fruitful  way  for  Colombia  to  be  recognized  as  a 
country  of  immense  cultural  wealth  based  on  the 
differences  and  autonomy  of  its  various  population 
groups.  These  principles  have  allowed  the  country  to 
deepen  its  understanding  of  its  own  history  and  that 
of  its  populations.  The  socialization  of  that  history  is 
one of the most important strategies for the eradication 
of  racial  discrimination,  insofar  as  it  allows  us  to 
highlight the role of each of these communities in the 
development of the country and the nation.
Today,  as  we  join  in  the  commemoration  of  the 
200th  year  since  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade,  we  recall  the  victims  and  the  immense 
and  invaluable  contribution  they  made  to  each  of  our 
nations. Once again, we join voices to ensure that this 
shameful episode in the history of humankind is never 
repeated.
Ms.  Butts  (United  States  of  America):  I  am 
honoured to represent the United States today on this 
important  occasion  to  recognize  the  commemoration 
of  the  200th  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic slave trade. 
Two  hundred  and  seven  years  ago,  on  1  January 
1808 in New York City, a young Peter Williams Junior, 
a  self-described  descendant  of  Africa  who  would 
become a leading pastor and noted abolitionist, chose to 
recognize the effective date of the legislation abolishing 
the  transatlantic  slave  trade  in  a  speech  entitled  “An 
Oration on the Abolition of the Slave Trade”. He exalted 
in the moment: 
“Rejoice,  Oh,  ye  descendants  of  Africans! 
No longer shall the United States of America, nor 
the extensive colonies of Great Britain, admit the 
degrading  commerce  of  the  human  species:  no 
longer shall they swell the tide of African misery 
by the importation of slaves. Rejoice, my brethren, 
that  the  channels  are  obstructed  through  which 
slavery,  and  its  direful  concomitants,  have  been 
entailed on the African race.” 
Today  we,  too,  rejoice  in  the  United  Nations 
recognition  of  the  bitter  history  of  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade  through  the  permanent  memorial  the  Ark 
of Return unveiled this past March. The United States 
is  pleased  to  join  more  than  90  Member  States  that 
have  made  contributions  in  support  of  the  permanent 
memorial  —  designed  by  an  American  architect  of 
Haitian  descent,  Rodney  Leon  —  that  now  stands  on 
United  Nations  Headquarters  grounds  as  a  public 
tribute  to  all  of  slavery’s  victims.  The  United  States 
contribution supports this crucial project in partnership 
with so many others who came together to fight injustice 
with  the  particular  leadership  of  Member  States,  the 
6/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
Mission of Jamaica, the Caribbean Community and the 
African Union. 
As  a  multicultural  society,  the  United  States 
strongly believes in spreading awareness of the struggle 
of all who fell victim to slavery. While we take pride 
in the tremendous progress we have made in our great 
nation, led by such historic women leaders as Harriet 
Tubman, Sojourner Truth, Fannie Lou Hamer and Ella 
Baker, we also recognize that the scars of the past still 
linger.  As  such,  we  are  dedicated  to  educating  future 
generations of this tragic past as a means of combating 
racism and prejudice.
The  United  States  continues  to  press  forward  on 
eliminating discrimination within our country as well 
as joining the global community in creating a world of 
freedom  and  equality  for  all.  In  that  vein,  the  United 
States is proud to be a sponsor of this draft resolution 
and to support the ongoing efforts of the United Nations 
to  fight  racial  injustice  and  intolerance.  Also,  we  are 
proud of the fact that more than 120 United States mayors 
have joined the International Coalition of Cities against 
Racism,  an  initiative  launched  by  the  United  Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The 
United  States  network  has  been  the  fastest-growing 
part of the global coalition. Every day United Nations 
representatives  and  Government  officials,  along  with 
tour groups, visitors and schoolchildren, will experience 
the Ark of Return. 
The memorial stands as a reminder not only of the 
horrific  injustices  of  the  past  but  also  of  our  shared 
responsibility to fully realize the aspirations outlined in 
the United Nations Charter. We must continue to study 
the history and legacy of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave  trade.  We  must  never  forget  the  terrible  human 
tragedy  and  the  moral  courage  of  those  who  work  to 
end it.
Mr.  Rakhmetullin  (Kazakhstan):  Every  year,  on 
25 March, we pay tribute to the victims of slavery. The 
International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of 
Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade is also a sober 
reminder that many modern forms of slavery and long-
established stereotypes and biases continue to prevail, 
all calling for strong, concerted multilateral action.
Slavery  did  not  end  with  its  abolition  in  the 
nineteenth century. It continues to prevail in numerous 
ways, in some form or another, in almost every country 
in  the  world.  This  illegal  practice  takes  the  form  of 
women  caught  in  prostitution,  children  and  adults 
forced to work in agriculture, domestic work, factories 
and  sweatshops.  Unfortunately,  the  illegal  practice  of 
slavery still blights the contemporary world. According 
to  the  International  Labour  Organization,  around 
21  million  men,  women  and  children  throughout  the 
world are in a form of slavery. Contemporary slavery 
takes  various  forms  and  affects  people  of  all  ages, 
gender and races, restricting their freedom.
What  we  learned  from  past  tragic  experiences  in 
our part of the world is best summarized in the words of 
President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan, while 
inaugurating  in  2002  the  monument  dedicated  to  the 
victims of political repression. He said “We remember 
not to sprinkle ashes on our heads, but to prevent such 
tragedies in the present and in the future”. We should 
remember  historical  tragedies  each  day  of  our  lives 
in  every  thought,  word  and  deed,  and  not  merely  at 
commemorative observances.
My  country,  in  its  national  legislation,  condemns 
and forbids genocide, racial segregation and all forms of 
racial discrimination, propaganda and agitation for racial, 
national and religious superiority. Kazakhstan supports 
the  creation  of  inclusive  multiracial  and  multi-ethnic 
organizations and movements. The country, where about 
130 ethnic groups and 20 religious denominations live 
peacefully, has a unique constitutional organ to ensure 
inter-ethnic harmony — the Assembly of the People of 
Kazakhstan — the public entity that has nine seats in 
the  Parliament.  In  Astana,  we  organize  regularly  the 
triennial Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional 
Religions  as  a  platform  for  dialogue  among  spiritual 
leaders  to  promote  mutual  respect  and  understanding 
worldwide, thus contributing to peace and security.
the 
My  country  considers 
transatlantic  slave 
trade  to  be  one  of  the  most  tragic  pages  of  human 
history  —  one  that  still  has  lasting  consequences, 
severely  damaging  human  rights  and  international 
law.  The  erosion  of  international  law  demands  from 
us all a reaffirmation of its cornerstone principles and 
our  commitment  to  preserve  them  to  overcome  the 
challenges ahead. At the general debate of this session, 
the  President  of  Kazakhstan  proposed  convening  in 
2016 a United Nations international conference at the 
highest level, designed to reaffirm the basic principles 
of international law (see A/70/PV.13).
Kazakhstan  has  co-sponsored  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.5,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial 
to  and 
remembrance  of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade”  to  reconfirm  my  country’s 
15-34949
7/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
robust  commitment  to  combating  racial  and  ethnic 
discrimination  and 
to  upholding  human  dignity, 
freedom and justice for all — the primary prerequisites 
for peace and security.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba attaches special importance to the commemoration 
of the bicentenary of the abolition of the transatlantic 
slave trade. Cuba is proud to sponsor draft resolution 
A/70/L.5, before us today. 
We 
reaffirm 
the  special  declaration  of 
the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC) in favour of erecting a permanent memorial 
in honour of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade. We also support the CELAC Latin American 
and Caribbean People of African Descent Action Plan, 
adopted in the context of its third Summit in January 
2015,  held  in  Costa  Rica.  Cuba  welcomes  both  the 
proclamation of the International Decade for People of 
African Descent and the approval of the programme of 
activities for the Decade, and reiterates its commitment 
to continuing to participate actively and support efforts 
for its effective implementation.
In  Cuba,  as  in  other  countries  in  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean,  we  can  feel  the  consequences  of 
the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  That  cruel  trade  brought 
approximately 1,300,000 Africans to our island. These 
men, women and children from Africa were torn from 
their  villages  and  families  and  sold  as  slaves  on  the 
other  side  of  the  Atlantic.  The  identity  of  the  Cuban 
nation  emerged  from  the  mixing  of  the  cultures  of 
various  ethnic  groups  in  difficult  colonial  and,  later, 
neocolonial circumstances.
In  1959,  we  launched  a  stage  of  true  integration 
and recognized the value of all components of Cuban 
culture. We are essentially a mixture of Hispanics and 
Africans;  we  also  have  influences  from  Asia  and  the 
American  indigenous  peoples.  The  Cuban  people  are 
very proud of their African origins, which are embodied 
in our idiosyncrasies and cultural characteristics. Cuban 
culture and nationality are enriched by the legacy of the 
Africans. Freed slaves and their descendants were the 
main actors in the various stages of the war that enabled 
the  Cuban  people  to  exercise  its  self-determination. 
Furthermore,  Cuba  has  contributed  its  own  blood  to 
the  emancipation  of  Africa,  a  continent  to  which  all 
humankind will forever be in debt.
As  stated  by  the  historic  leader  of  the  Cuban 
revolution,  Fidel  Castro  Ruz,  in  his  statement  at 
the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
held in Durban in 2001: 
“The  inhuman  exploitation  imposed  on  the 
peoples of three continents, including Asia, marked 
forever  the  destiny  and  lives  of  over  4.5  billion 
people  living  in  the  Third  World  today  whose 
poverty, unemployment, illiteracy and health rates 
as well as their infant mortality, life expectancy and 
other calamities — too many, in fact, to enumerate 
here  —  are  certainly  awesome  and  harrowing. 
They  are  the  current  victims  of  that  atrocity, 
which  lasted  centuries,  and  those  who  clearly 
deserve  compensation  for  the  horrendous  crimes 
perpetrated against their ancestors and peoples.”
The  developed  countries  and 
their  consumer 
societies,  responsible  for  the  accelerated  and  almost 
unstoppable  destruction  of  the  environment,  have 
been the main beneficiaries of conquest, colonization, 
slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade,  and  the 
terrible  exploitation  and  extermination  of  hundreds 
of people of the South. Cuba supports the just request 
for  compensation  put  forward  by  the  countries  of  the 
Caribbean Community. Cuba also advocates the special 
and differentiated treatment requested by the developing 
countries, in particular in Africa, in their economic and 
international relations. Cuba rejects selfishness and the 
shameful wealth of a few that serve as the blueprint for 
the ongoing globalization.
Mr. Zinsou (Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair.
To  conclude,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
strengthening the activities of the United Nations and 
other  international  organizations,  such  as  UNESCO, 
with  regard  to  this  issue.  It  is  the  minimum  that  the 
international  community  can  do  to  repair  the  crime 
against  humanity  committed  through  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade of Africans.
Mr. Minah (Sierra Leone): I am truly honoured to 
represent Sierra Leone at this moment as we celebrate 
the  200th  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  slave 
trade. We are truly grateful for the leadership provided 
by Jamaica, and we commend Ambassador Rattray for 
his leadership of a memorial committee that led to the 
creation  and  the  establishment  of  the  Ark  of  Return
designed  by  a  Haitian  American  architect,  Rodney 
Leon,  and  supervised  by  Sierra  Leonean  engineer 
Melbourne Garber.
8/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
As we commemorate the lives lost, let us celebrate 
the resilience of the descendants. As we commemorate 
the  lives  lost,  let  us  also  educate  those  who  need  to 
know the lessons of the slave trade. Certain names ring 
true  when  we  talk  about  the  transatlantic  slave  trade, 
but all of us might not be familiar with them. Names 
such as Elmina, Cape Coast, Gorée Island and Bunce 
Island are all locations where the commercialization of 
the slave trade occurred on the West African coast.
to do our part to make sure that the world we wish to 
live in truly comes about.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 118.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.5,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial 
to and remembrance of the victims of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade”.
All  delegations  support  the  total  abolition  of  the 
slave trade, but let us understand that while the tide of 
slavery has receded, it has not completely gone away. We 
must remain vigilant. We must remain attentive to make 
sure  that  a  world  without  prejudice,  without  bigotry, 
without discrimination and without slavery truly comes 
about. We note the terms, the clauses and the promise 
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also 
take note of the aspirations of this noble Organization, 
but the future is not guaranteed and it is for all of us 
as  diplomats,  as  those  who  are  influence-makers  and 
opinion  formers,  to  make  sure  we  remain  vigilant  on 
the  question  of  slavery  in  all  its  forms  to  ensure  that 
the world we wish to live in, and the world we wish to 
bequeath to generations yet unborn, is truly free, fair 
and as we wish it to be.
In a village in Cuba I had the privilege of meeting 
descendants  of  slavery  who  still  sing  the  songs  of  a 
West African village in Freetown, Sierra Leone. A film 
crew managed to record these songs in Cuba and also 
to go to West Africa to try to find the origins of these 
songs.  When  he  played  the  songs  in  Sierra  Leone  in 
this  particular  village,  these  songs  were  immediately 
recognized by the old people who said: “Those are our 
songs.  Those  are  the  songs  our  grandmothers  used  to 
sing  to  us.  We  recognize  these  songs.”  The  result  of 
this discovery was that members of the Cuban village 
went  to  Sierra  Leone  and  met  those  in  the  Sierra 
Leonean village and even though they were separated 
by  language,  the  one  phrase  that  both  of  them  could 
manage  to  understand  among  themselves  was  simply 
the phrase “they are we”. In other words these are our 
people, our cousins, our sisters, our descendants.
Slavery has united many in misery, but the promise 
of  the  future  is  for  us  to  realize  that  the  resilience  of 
the  descendants  can  make  a  future  for  the  world  we 
wish  to  live  in.  As  we  celebrate  and  commemorate, 
let us rededicate ourselves to what we need to do. We 
welcome the leadership of Jamaica, but it is for all of us 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I should like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/70/L.5,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Andorra, 
Argentina,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Georgia, 
Honduras,  Iceland,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Kazakhstan, 
Liechtenstein, Malaysia, Maldives, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Sweden, 
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Turkey, Uruguay, the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): The 
General  Assembly  adopted  a  similar  draft  resolution 
at  the  previous  session  without  a  vote.  May  I  take  it 
that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.5 without a vote?
Draft resolution A/70/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
70/7).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  shall 
now give the floor to the speaker who wishes to speak 
in explanation of position on the resolution just adopted.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union.
Mr. Whiteley (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union.
Slavery  and  the  slave  trade  are  a  crime  against 
humanity  and  should  always  have  been  so,  especially 
the  transatlantic  slave  trade,  and  are  among  the 
major  sources  and  manifestations  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.
15-34949
9/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
Building on that notion, acknowledged at the World 
Conference against Racism in 2001, in 2007 the General 
Assembly agreed to establish a permanent memorial on 
the grounds of the United Nations to honour the victims 
of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  Working 
together in unity, on the one hand to honour the victims 
of slavery but also to acknowledge and remember such 
manifestations  of  racial  discrimination,  it  was  with 
great  contentment  that  in  March  we  witnessed  the 
unveiling of the memorial the Ark of Return.
We warmly acknowledge the work of the Committee 
of interested States, pay tribute to the efforts of Jamaica, 
the  Caribbean  Community  and  African  Union  States 
and  others,  and  the  generous  voluntary  contributions 
from  Member  States,  complemented  by  funding  from 
foundations and private individuals.
The  memorial  reminds  us,  and  will  continue  to 
remind those after us, of the tragic legacy of the slave 
trade and the need to continue the fight against racism and 
prejudice. We believe that the project is just beginning. 
The memorial helps us to remember the past and what 
racism and prejudice brings. We must work together in 
raising awareness of, educating and informing current 
and future generations about the causes, consequences 
and lessons of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. 
No  effort  should  be  spared,  and  the  European  Union 
will always be in the forefront of efforts to combat all 
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 118.
Agenda items 119 and 120 (continued)
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Mr.  De  Antueno  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At the outset, we would like to thank the President of 
the General Assembly for convening the Assembly to 
exchange ideas with regard to the implementation of the 
resolutions of the United Nations and the revitalization 
of the work of the General Assembly.
The  General  Assembly  is  the  most  representative 
and  democratic  organ  of 
the  Organization.  Our 
delegation is convinced that we must work seriously to 
recover the leading role that, for different reasons, very 
often  has  been  ceded  to  or  taken  up  by  other  bodies. 
Therefore,  we  recall  the  fundamental  importance  of 
promoting the efficiency, transparency and inclusivity 
of  our  work  as  basic  pillars  to  improve  and  perfect 
the working methods of the Assembly and each of its 
committees.
In  that  regard,  the  work  done  and  efforts  made 
are  worthy  of  recognition.  The  process  headed  by 
Ambassador Vladimir Drobnjak and Wilfried Emvula 
have  to  be  highlighted;  they  led  to  the  adoption  of 
resolution 69/321, which is innovative in many respects, 
in particular with regard to the process of the selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General.  We  are 
grateful to the entire membership for the flexibility and 
constructive  spirit  demonstrated  during  the  process, 
which must continue during this session.
One question that we think is important to reflect 
on  for  the  future  is  the  need  to  strengthen  the  Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  must 
guarantee  that  the  exception  is  not  the  rule.  Both 
from  a  personnel  perspective  and  from  the  budgetary 
point of view, the Office of the President has to have 
the necessary resources to function appropriately and 
predictably.  It  is  clear  that  the  resources  currently 
allocated from the regular budget are insufficient and 
have not been substantially increased since 1998, when 
they  were  established.  On  the  other  hand,  the  trust 
fund  established  in  2010  is  not  the  most  efficient  or 
transparent way to finance the Office.
It 
is  essential 
to  establish  mechanisms 
that 
guarantee  total  accountability  with  regard  to  the 
resources  available  for  the  trust  fund,  as  well  as  the 
origin and way in which they are used. We must reflect 
collectively  with  regard  to  the  best  way  to  guarantee 
that  the  Office  of  the  President  adjusts  to  the  highest 
standards  of  transparency.  In  previous  years  we  have 
discussed these issues in the framework of the debates 
on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
cannot continue delaying a solution to these problems. 
The time for action is now.
Another point I wish to make is the need to respect 
the  equilibrium  in  geographic  representation  as  well 
as  gender  equality  for  the  posts  of  the  Organization. 
That leads us to underscore the appeal to invite women 
candidates  for  the  highest  post,  which  is  to  be  filled 
next  year.  After  eight  Secretaries-General  and  seven 
decades  when  the  administration  of  the  Organization 
was headed by men, and with everything that the United 
Nations is doing for the empowerment of women, the 
10/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
time has come to continue to make history and ensure 
that a woman heads up that important post.
Another aspect of concern is the timeliness and the 
updating of the reports we receive. Argentina reiterates 
the  need  to  implement  the  provisions  of  resolution 
46/190,  which  establishes  that  documents  must  be 
submitted by the Secretariat six weeks in advance, and 
in the six official languages of the United Nations.
in 
to 
the 
Finally, 
relation 
implementation 
resolutions,  we  ask  the  membership  to  make  the 
political  commitment  to  carry  them  out  as  a  legal 
obligation.  That  is  one  of  the  most  serious  problems 
faced by the General Assembly, and one reason that it 
has lost in its leadership. But the deep analysis, hours of 
debate and the commitments and negotiations will all 
be for naught if States Members ignore the resolutions 
that  are  adopted  and  we  do  not  comply  and  keep  our 
word in the most inclusive and democratic organ at our 
disposal.  We  thus  cannot  complaint  that  other  organs 
are encroaching on our functions and leaving us out of 
the discussions.
Ms.  Argüello  González  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  are  grateful  for  the  convening  of  this 
important meeting. First and foremost, our delegation 
wishes  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Wilfried 
Emvula,  Permanent  Representative  of  Namibia,  and 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Croatia,  on  their  reappointments 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We wish them every success in the performance of their 
functions.
Our delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries (see A/70/PV.45).
Our  delegation  reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to 
the  process  of  the  revitalization  and  democratization 
of  the  General  Assembly.  We  want  to  continue  to 
work constructively so that this organ can act in all its 
dimensions  as  the  most  representative  and  legitimate 
organ of the Organization.
As  established  on  different  occasions,  Nicaragua 
believes  the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations 
to be an overriding concern. To achieve that goal, we 
must  continue  to  take  measures  so  that  the  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly  is  restored  in  order  for 
it  to  act  as  the  most  democratic,  deliberative  and 
normative  organ  of  the  Organization.  We  therefore 
highlight the importance of the full implementation of 
resolution 69/321, adopted by the General Assembly on 
11 September 2015 and entitled “Revitalization of the 
work of the General Assembly”. We recall the flexible 
approach and consensual adoption of the resolution. We 
also agreed to continue the review of the four clusters, 
among which is the nomination and appointment of the 
Secretary-General during this seventieth session of the 
General Assembly.
The resolution marks a milestone in the following: 
through  a  letter  from  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
the  resolution  invites  applications  for  the  post  of 
Secretary-General  and  requests  that  the  names  of  the 
candidates be circulated to the membership in general, 
that meetings with the Member States be held and that 
there be women candidates.
The Working Group is at an auspicious crossroads in 
terms of revitalizing the General Assembly. Nicaragua 
reaffirms  its  vision  to  make  the  United  Nations  and 
the  General  Assembly  the  principal  global  forum  for 
debate.  The  Assembly  must  be  a  genuine  bridge  of 
communication  with  global  governance  stakeholders. 
As such, it is necessary for it to be a transparent and 
inclusive  forum,  where  each  country,  however  small, 
can feel that its voice is heard.
We already have at our disposal the necessary tools 
by way of the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly. 
The  division  of  labour  is  clearly  defined  among  the 
different organs. We must respect and ensure that the 
Security  Council  does  not  take  up  subjects  that  are 
within the competence of the General Assembly.
The seventieth anniversary of the United Nations is 
a crucial time, which is vital because of its importance 
to  international  law,  global  security  and  peace.  We 
hope that this historic time will be taken full advantage 
of to create awareness of the role and activities of the 
General Assembly.
In no way can we minimize the achievements and 
importance of the General Assembly. The decrease in 
its  role  and  functioning  could  cause  doubts  as  to  its 
relevance  and  credibility.  The  voice  and  the  vote  of 
all  States  Members  of  the  Organization  for  the  good 
of  all  our  peoples  must  be  increasingly  strengthened. 
Nicaragua is committed to every initiative that allows 
us to recreate, reinvent and reshape the United Nations. 
We  are  in  favour  of  reshaping  the  United  Nations  so 
15-34949
11/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
that the interests of everyone prevail and we can speak 
and hear under equal conditions as Member States.
We  conclude  with  the  inspiring  words  of  our 
President,  Commander  Ortega  Saavedra.  May  the 
United  Nations  lead  us  to  play  our  role  of  ensuring 
dialogue, 
security  with 
sovereignty, peace and a future without interference or 
dependency, but working on a footing of equality, that 
is, with all, for all, for the good of all. May that be so.
respect,  understanding, 
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): Costa Rica associates itself with the statement 
(see A/70/PV.45) made by the representative of Estonia 
on  behalf  of 
the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency group (ACT), with whom we co-chair the 
ACT working group on transparency.
My delegation is grateful for the convening of this 
joint  debate  on  agenda  items  119  and  120,  as  well  as 
for the appointment of the Ambassadors of Croatia and 
Namibia as co-facilitators for this session of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General Assembly. We recognize their excellent work 
at  the  previous  session,  which  we  are  convinced  will 
facilitate significant progress at the present session.
Allow  me,  in  my  national  capacity,  to  make  the 
following  points  with  regard  to  the  process  of  the 
selection  and  the  appointment  of  the  person  who  will 
occupy the post of Secretary-General as of 2017.
First  I  should  like  to  highlight  that  it  is  with  a 
feeling of urgency that we have to follow up resolution 
69/321  and  all  the  relevant  resolutions  on  the  process 
of  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General. Although adopted, those resolutions have not 
been implemented fully or have to be modified because, 
until just a few months ago, there was no clear, defined 
process for such appointment.
As with all processes, implementation is decisive. 
Resolution 69/321 includes clear and forceful language 
as  to  how  the  membership  considers  that  the  process 
should be carried out for the selection of the next person 
who will become Secretary-General. Costa Rica hopes 
that the next Secretary-General will be a woman.
In  that  connection,  Costa  Rica  calls  upon  the 
Presidents of the Security Council and of the General 
Assembly  to  remit  a  joint  note  to  the  membership  as 
soon  as  possible  officially  inviting  the  submission  of 
nominations,  as  established  clearly  in  the  resolution. 
That  letter  should  also  invite  Member  States  to  put 
forward  women  for  the  post  of  Secretary-General; 
thereby an open, transparent and inclusive process will 
be launched.
Once the process is formally begun, we will have 
an  opportunity  to  know  on  a  regular  basis  the  names 
of  the  candidates  and  their  curricula  vitae,  as  well  as 
the  possibility  of  interacting  with  them  in  informal 
meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  or  in  formats  that 
include meetings with regional groups — or even under 
an Arria-Formula format. We want to, and should, know 
their visions and platforms for action. This upcoming 
appointment will be decisive for the Organization.
Furthermore,  Costa  Rica  supports  the  idea  that 
the Security Council must recommend more than one 
candidate  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  happy  to 
know that a permanent member of the Security Council 
has expressed its support for that option.
Since  nobody  questions  the  legitimacy  and  the 
mandate of the President in any of our countries that are 
democratically elected, we should not fear that a process 
of this nature will in any way affect their mandate. A 
vote serves to confer greater legitimacy on the selection. 
Even when we consider the many achievements of past 
sessions, with the onset of the next session Costa Rica 
will  continue  to  promote  changing  the  mandate  to  a 
single, non-renewable term of seven years, which will 
thus guarantee the independence of the post.
It  is  necessary  that  the  next  person  who  becomes 
Secretary-General  perform  with  moral  authority, 
integrity  and  courage,  so  that  the  United  Nations  can 
do its work in a more effective way. We need a strong 
and impartial leader, one who will not be involved in 
campaigns  or  making  undue  promises  to  assure  his 
reappointment.  On  the  contrary,  the  next  Secretary-
General  must  focus  on  current  concerns  that  demand 
our maximum attention and clear action. All members 
represented  in  the  General  Assembly,  not  just  the  15 
members of the Security Council, must be involved in 
the  process  of  selection.  The  General  Assembly  must 
play a more active and vigorous role, as should be the 
case in any democratic system.
Not only do we wish to have a voice in the process, 
we  want  to  participate  in  it.  Costa  Rica  aspires  to  an 
open,  transparent  election  based  on  merit,  with  a 
feeling of predictability, and which is taking place in a 
structured and timely fashion.
With regard to the strengthening of the Office of the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  are  convinced 
12/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
that we must make a very serious analysis of how we 
can ensure transparency and improve the effectiveness 
of its management. We think the Office should have a 
minimum number of resources from the regular budget 
that corresponds to the mandate we have given to it as 
the  General  Assembly  and  which  will  allow  it  to  act 
without any level of financial dependency with regard 
to a specific country or donor.
The  fact  that  the  Office  has  not  received  an 
increase  in  its  budget  for  20  years  shows  the  little 
strategic  thinking  we  have  devoted  to  its  functions, 
competencies and necessary resources to do its work. 
We  must  therefore  carry  out  a  debate  on  the  scope 
of  its  powers  and  the  level  of  activities  that  Member 
States expect from the Office, with a view to finding 
a way of strengthening the institution. In that respect, 
the discussion on the biennial budget is an opportunity 
that we cannot miss, as it will allow us to take concrete 
action to correct past deficiencies.
We  think  that  the  time  for  major  change  in  the 
United Nations has come. We must start without delay. 
We have all the necessary tools at our disposal. Let us 
use them. The time is now.
Mrs.  Zarrouk  Boumiza  (Tunisia)  (spoke 
in 
Arabic):  My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia for 
their great efforts as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly  during  the  seventieth  session.  We  welcome 
them  both  and  congratulate  them  on  their  re-election 
as co-Chairs.
We  align  ourselves  with 
the  statement  (see 
A/70/PV.45) made by the representative of Algeria on 
behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries. 
I  would  like  to  make  the  following  comments  in  my 
national capacity.
The  Working  Group  will  continue 
its  work 
throughout this session on the four topics it was already 
considering.  Our  great  interest  and  priority  continues 
to  be  on  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  next 
Secretary-General, which will take place in 2016.
With  regard  to  strengthening  of  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly and its delegations, we believe that 
to be among the main priorities in the overall reform of 
the United Nations, given the Assembly’s role as a key 
deliberating body and one that defines overall policies. 
It is the most representative organ of the United Nations. 
It also has a key role to play in the establishment of the 
norms and codification of international law, as well as in 
questions related to the budget and the administration. 
At the same time, we must strengthen the role of this 
body and its authority and move forward to revitalize 
its  work.  In  the  same  context,  we  must  pursue  the 
implementation  of  the  relevant  resolutions,  including 
on  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General, as that is essential for progress to be made in 
this area.
My  delegation  believes  that  strengthening  the 
role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  requires 
pursuing  and  including  in  its  agenda  urgent  issues 
that  are  relevant  to  the  international  community.  It  is 
necessary  for  this  body  to  be  able  to  address  current 
challenges, including making progress on implementing 
our obligations under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  strengthening  our 
efforts to combat terrorism.
We believe the holding of thematic debates to be an 
important interactive tool that enables us to exchange 
points of view on topics of common interest that are of 
current relevance. We hope that such discussions will 
continue under the presidency of the seventieth session 
of the General Assembly.
On  another  point,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
improving the content of the annual Security Council 
reports submitted to the General Assembly so that they 
are more thorough and more analytical and reflect the 
contexts  in  which  resolutions  were  adopted  and  the 
issues that remain unresolved.
We  would  also  like  to  underscore  the  importance 
of  holding  regular  meetings  among  the  heads  of 
the  various  entities  within  the  United  Nations  and 
regularly informing Member States of the results. That 
is a matter of increasing coordination and cooperation 
among the essential bodies. We favour expanding such 
coordination so that it encompasses all the agendas of 
those  bodies,  in  order  to  strengthen  integration  and 
mainstreaming.
With regard to the work of the General Assembly, 
my delegation notes that we have already taken many 
measures to improve the methods of work of the Main 
Committees of the General Assembly. However, we need 
to  go  into  the  substance  of  the  discussions  of  certain 
recommendations that are related to this as follows: to 
attempt  to  summarize  and  be  brief  in  resolutions  and 
reports  and  other  United  Nations  documents  and  to 
focus on the practical aspects and avoid redundancy; to 
15-34949
13/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
exchange best practices among the various committees 
while  maintaining  the  specificity  of  each  committee 
and  the  distribution  of  responsibilities  among  them; 
to  avoid  the  dates  of  meetings  of  various  committees 
interfering with one another; and that discussions are 
well planned.
As  to  the  nomination  of  the  Secretary-General 
that  will  take  place  next  year,  my  country  takes  a 
favourable  view  of  the  consensus  reached  during  the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly to send a 
joint  letter  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  to  invite  delegations  to  present  the  names  of 
their  candidates,  to  make  the  whole  process  clearer 
and  to  regularly  circulate  the  names  and  curricula 
vitae  of  the  candidates.  We  hope  that  there  will  be 
close  collaboration  with  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and the President of the Security Council to 
officially begin that process as soon as possible.
the 
importance  of 
the 
We  underscore 
full 
implementation of the Assembly’s resolutions, including 
resolution 69/321, on the role of the General Assembly, 
which should be transparent, exhaustive and guarantee 
the  participation  of  all  Member  States  in  the  various 
stages. We are certain that there are a number of very 
qualified candidates to take up the post of Secretary-
General. And it is important to include names of women 
on the list of candidates, especially since no woman has 
been  appointed  to  the  post  since  the  establishment  of 
the Organization, 70 years ago.
With regard to the strengthening the Office of the 
President of the General Assembly, we believe that it is 
necessary to provide all the necessary human resources 
and  financial  support  to  the  President  so  that  he  can 
carry out his mandate effectively and so that taking up 
the presidency does not pose an additional burden for 
countries  with  limited  resources.  We  also  underscore 
the 
institutional 
memory of the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly and to transmit the lessons learned and best 
practices  from  one  President  to  another.  That  could 
guarantee effectiveness in managing the presidency.
importance  of  strengthening 
the 
In conclusion, we would like to reiterate our support 
for resolution 69/321, which was adopted in September 
and which re-establishes the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly. 
We hope that its agenda will be very precise.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr. Vladimir Drobnjak and Mr. Wilfried Emvula, the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia, 
respectively,  on  their  reappointment  as  co-Chairs  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the Work of the General Assembly during its seventieth 
session. We commend their enormous, constructive and 
tireless efforts during the negotiations. We assure them 
of our full cooperation.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
(see  A/70/PV.45)  made  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.
The  process  of  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly is part of the major efforts to reform 
the United Nations and constitutes a driving force, as 
it  has  done  from  the  beginning.  Facing  new  types  of 
problems and challenges, the roles of the United Nations 
have increased and diversified, requiring new ways of 
working and also new sources of financing.
During  the  general  debate  in  September,  world 
leaders  mainly  focused  on  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  so  that  the  Organization  can  be  capable  of 
effectively  carrying  out  its  mandate  while  reflecting 
the geopolitical realities of today’s world, strengthening 
international  peace  and  security,  combating 
the 
phenomenon  of  terrorism,  strengthening  the  means 
of  prevention  and  combating  the  recurrence  of  crises 
and  conflicts,  and  preventing  the  deterioration  of  our 
environment and our biodiversity. The achievement of 
those goals will certainly enable us to make the main 
deliberative body a strong, credible and effective body 
that is capable of addressing the new challenges of the 
twenty-first century and of contributing to building a 
better world, one that is peaceful, more prosperous and 
more just.
Resolution  69/321,  adopted  by 
the  General 
Assembly  on  11  September,  is  a  major  step  forward 
due  to  the  spirit  of  compromise  and  flexibility  that 
delegations demonstrated throughout the negotiations. 
It is certainly possible to make tangible progress in the 
process of the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly — specifically as far as its methods of work 
are  concerned —  and  that  requires  of  the  Chairs  and 
members  of  the  bureaux  of  the  Main  Committees 
to  take  better  account  in  their  consultations  with 
Member  States  so  that  they  can  improve  the  work  of 
the Committees. We call on the Secretary-General and 
on Chairs of the Main Committees to better coordinate 
their  work  in  order  to  optimize  the  interactive  nature 
of their relationship. We recall the decision to proceed 
14/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
to  the  election  of  the  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  members  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council six months before they assume their 
functions, including during the seventieth session.
Beyond  working  methods,  we  would  also  like 
to  recall  that  the  subject  that  has  gained  the  most 
interest this year is mainly the process of the selection 
of  the  Secretary-General,  which  introduced  major 
innovations in the selection procedures. My delegation 
also  welcomes  and  strongly  supports  the  measure 
of  the  relevant  resolution  to  send  a  joint  letter  of  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  addressed  to  all  Member  States  inviting 
candidates  for  the  post  of  Secretary-General  and 
regularly communicating the names of the candidates, 
who  will  interact  with  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  encourages 
candidates  to  officially  present  their  candidacies  in  a 
timely manner so that exchanges with Member States 
will  not  be  hurried.  My  delegation  also  supports  the 
principle  of  geographic  distribution,  which  should  be 
more balanced, as well as that of gender equality, which 
should  absolutely  be  taken  into  account.  Finally,  my 
delegation believes that a democratic, transparent and 
inclusive process, if it is seen through to fruition, will 
mark  a  decisive  turning  point  in  the  selection  of  the 
next  Secretary-General.  My  delegation  is  prepared  to 
work alongside other delegations in order to participate 
constructively in the process.
On  another  point,  it  is  important  to  note  that  the 
role  and  activities  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly have evolved throughout the years and that 
the Assembly is increasingly considering issues related 
to  global  challenges.  It  is  therefore  essential  to  give 
the  Office  of  the  President  the  proper  personnel  and 
necessary  resources,  specifically  financial  resources, 
so that he is able effectively and efficiently to carry out 
the  functions  of  his  mandate  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations, thereby preserving the 
institutional memory of this Office.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  reiterates  that,  in 
spite of the significant progress that has been achieved, 
the process of revitalization is still far from complete. 
It  requires  the  commitment  of  all  Member  States 
and  an  unfailing  political  will  in  order  to  focus  on 
multilateralism  and  its  noble  objectives,  which  we  all 
support.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement  (see 
A/70/PV.45) made by the representative of Algeria on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
We,  too,  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
meeting to discuss the revitalization of the work of the 
General  Assembly  and  the  implementation  of  United 
Nations resolutions.
The  delegation  of 
the  Sudan  welcomes 
the 
reappointment  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia and the Permanent Representative of Namibia 
to  co-chair  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We thank them for their efforts in that regard. We would 
also like to welcome the adoption of resolution 69/321, 
entitled  “Revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly”,  especially  as  it  relates  to  the  nomination 
and appointment of the Secretary-General and the role 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  that  connection.  We  also 
appreciate the President’s contribution to that process. 
We emphasize that it should be based on the principles 
set out in the Charter of the United Nations and carried 
out with full transparency and with the participation of 
all Member States. We also reiterate the need to abide by 
all of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, 
especially  those  related  to  the  rules  and  regulations 
for nominating and appointing the Secretary-General, 
including resolution 69/321.
Nominating  and  appointing  the  next  Secretary-
General  is  a  source  of  concern  for  many  Member 
States. In that regard, my delegation reiterates the need 
to respect the General Assembly’s rules of procedure, 
including rule 141, which relates to the nomination and 
appointment  of  the  Secretary-General.  We  also  note 
that the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  should  discuss 
this issue, so as to guarantee broader participation by 
all Member States.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations,  many  geopolitical,  security  and 
humanitarian  changes  have  occurred  and  we  are 
witnessing  new  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security. That requires a comprehensive review of the 
Organization.  Therefore,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  appointing  Mr.  José 
Ramos-Horta,  former  President  of  Timor-Leste,  to 
undertake  a  comprehensive  review  of  peacekeeping 
operations,  as  well  as  the  report  (see  A/70/95)  issued 
by  the  Panel  in  June.  My  delegation  will  take  part 
in  that  process.  We  call  for  the  implementation  of 
all  the  recommendations  in  all  the  relevant  United 
15-34949
15/17
A/70/PV.46 
04/11/2015
Nations  bodies,  such  as  the  Fourth  Committee,  the 
Fifth  Committees  and  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping Operations.
It  is  the  duty  of  all  Member  States,  which  are 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  of  course,  to 
safeguard  and  reinforce  the  Assembly’s  mandate  and 
authority, as well as the practical authority that it has 
developed throughout the seven decades following the 
establishment of the United Nations, in 1945, especially 
with regard to its role in peacekeeping operations. We 
warn against encroaching upon the General Assembly’s 
work  and  mandate,  which  could  negatively  reflect  on 
developing countries.
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  I  would 
to 
congratulate the Permanent Representatives of Croatia 
and Namibia on their appointments to co-chair the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of the General Assembly.
like 
San  Marino  believes  in  a  strong  United  Nations 
and  in  its  universal  values.  The  General  Assembly 
is  at  the  centre  of  the  authority  and  decision-making 
process of the United Nations system. Over the years, 
many  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  have  been  adopted  and  have  improved  the 
work  of  this  very  important  body.  I  should  like  to 
mention briefly a few items on which we could focus 
our attention.
We  could  give  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  more  authority  in  his  role  and  increase  the 
human  and  financial  resources  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  make  sure  that 
he  can  effectively  accomplish  his  tasks.  We  might 
also improve coordination of the work of the General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Second Committee in order to fulfil the mandate of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  to  monitor  their 
implementation.
We  should  continue  to  hold  high-level  thematic 
the  General  Assembly  should 
debates.  However, 
organize  fewer  events  than  in  the  past —  not  only  to 
secure greater participation by our leaders but also to 
allow a small country like ours to be more involved in 
such endeavours.
We  can  improve  the  working  methods  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  of  the  various  committees  by 
streamlining their workload with biennial or triennial 
draft resolutions and coordinating the many events in 
a  manner  that  will  allow  the  greater  participation  of 
all our Missions. We might try to engage one another 
during  meetings  like  this  with  greater  interaction 
and  fewer  formal  speeches.  Doing  so  might  create  a 
friendlier environment and a more expeditious path for 
our deliberations.
While  the  General  Assembly  should  not  be  a 
substitute for the Security Council  in the selection of 
candidates for the post of Secretary-General, we should 
pursue  the  implementation  of  resolution  69/321,  in 
particular  by  conducting  informal  meetings  with  the 
candidates.
We should continue with the good practice of the 
Secretary-General  in  providing  informal  briefings  on 
his  travel  activities  and  his  priorities.  Under  the  able 
leadership of the President, we can advance the reform 
of the Security Council. Hopefully, that reform will be 
embraced  by  the  vast  majority  of  the  membership  or 
by consensus. With the goal of improving the financial 
health  of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  prepare 
accurate United Nations budgets and monitor carefully 
actual expenses.
In conclusion, like many other small countries with 
limited resources and small missions, San Marino seeks 
a more efficient, more effective and more user-friendly 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  I  have 
the  honour 
to  deliver  a  brief  joint  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Namibia,  Ambassador 
Wilfried Emvula, and myself.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  the  President  of 
the General Assembly for reappointing us as co-Chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of the Work of the General Assembly. We feel deeply 
honoured to continue facilitating such a vital, important 
and far-reaching process. We thank Member States for 
all the kind words of praise and support.
Evidently,  there  is  widespread  recognition  that 
resolution 69/321 represents a success for us all — for 
the United Nations and Member States alike — and it 
serves as the best proof of how much can be achieved 
through  constructive,  reform-oriented  and  consensus-
based work. It is a result of the willingness of Member 
States  to  engage  in  a  thorough,  substantive  debate 
on  numerous  crucial  issues  on  the  subject  of  General 
Assembly revitalization and, in particular, those related 
to  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General. Clearly, during the sixty-ninth session certain 
issues were successfully addressed and provided with 
16/17 
15-34949
04/11/2015 
A/70/PV.46
appropriate,  effective  solutions.  On  the  other  hand, 
some  issues  are  still  to  be  addressed  properly  during 
this session and beyond.
As  requested  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  during  the  seventieth  session  co-Chairs 
will  focus  in  particular  on  the  issue  of  transparency, 
efficiency and accountability in the work of the Office 
of the President of the General Assembly. At the same 
time, we should pay due and full attention to all other 
clusters on the General Assembly revitalization agenda, 
bearing in mind the latest report of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  (A/69/1007),  which  is  an  important  point  of 
departure  for  some  aspects  of  our  future  discussion, 
and remains our point of reference.
We have taken very careful note of yesterday’s and 
today’s  debate,  and  we  shall  take  everything  that  has 
been  said  as  guidelines  for  our  upcoming  work.  We 
remain, as always, at the disposal of Member States for 
consultation, exchanges of views and the exploration of 
new ideas in the months to come.
The  co-Chairs  note  an  interest  by  Member  States 
to exchange views on the subject of the Office of the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  its  transparency 
and  financing  aspects,  and  especially  in  hearing  the 
views  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
that  particular  matter.  Therefore,  the  co-Chairs  are 
considering  organizing  some  informal  discussions  in 
that regard in the course of this year. It is an important 
matter,  and  early  informal  exchanges  of  views  will 
benefit  the  co-Chairs  immensely  in  charting  the  best 
way forward.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  we  look  forward 
to  another  fruitful  year  of  deliberations  in  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group.  We  express  once  again  our 
full  appreciation  for  being  entrusted  with  such  an 
important task at this session of the General Assembly. 
We also look forward to members’ positive and active 
engagement.
The  Acting  President 
in  French): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda items 119 and 120.
(spoke 
The meeting rose at noon.
15-34949
17/17
