United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
44th plenary meeting
Friday, 30 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.44
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Alrowaiei 
(Bahrain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 121 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
Mr. León González (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): We 
wish to thank the President for convening this debate, 
and we support his efforts to advance the negotiations 
on the reform of the Security Council. We congratulate 
the  Ambassador  of  Luxembourg,  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas, 
on  her  appointment  to  lead  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations group and assure her of the support of my 
delegation.
The  General  Assembly  has  debated  the  issue 
before  us  for  more  than  20  years.  The  discussion  has 
been  important  and  indispensable  in  bringing  out  the 
positions of countries on the issue and in encouraging 
better  understanding  of  the  urgency  of  Security 
Council reform. It is difficult to sustain the status quo 
nearly seven decades after the founding of the United 
Nations, without bearing in mind the profound political, 
social and economic evolution that human history has 
experienced during that time.
Cuba  reiterates  the  need  to  convert  the  Security 
Council into a democratic, transparent and representative 
institution,  where  the  193  Member  States  really  feel 
represented  and  can  recognize  the  full  legitimacy  of 
the provision of Article 24 of the Charter of the United 
Nations that confers on the Council the responsibility to 
act on their behalf. That requires the Security Council 
to  comply  fully  with  the  mandate  conferred  by  the 
General Assembly through various decisions, including 
the most recent, decision 69/560, of 17 September, on 
the question of equitable representation in the Security 
Council and an increase in the number of its members 
and related matters.
We  are  grateful  for  the  efforts  in  that  regard  by 
the former President of the General Assembly and the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  the  outgoing 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  group. 
We  congratulate  both  for  the  results  achieved.  The 
rounds of discussions held to date and the compilations 
of  positions  that  they  have  produced  confirm,  in  our 
opinion, that the immense majority of Member States 
support,  at  the  minimum,  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council  in  its  two  categories  of  members,  permanent 
and non-permanent, the elimination of the right of the 
veto,  fundamental  reform  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods, approval of the Council’s rules of procedure 
so that they cease to be provisional, and respect for the 
respective mandates of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council, as set out in the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Cuba  is  prepared  to  embark  without  further 
delay  on  the  negotiations  that  the  process  requires. 
We  agree  with  the  majority  of  delegations  that  all  of 
the  proposals  formulated  during  the  deliberations  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  group  must  be 
taken into account. The process must be inclusive and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-34312 (E)
*1534312*
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
transparent.  While  the  positions  of  Cuba  on  the  issue 
are well known, I should like to reiterate them for the 
benefit of the new cycle of discussions.
of  the  distribution  of  power  resulting  from  a  global 
military confrontation. Cuba stands ready to meet that 
challenge successfully.
We  are  in  favour  of  a  substantial  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council, to approximately 
25 or 26 States. That expansion must take place in both 
categories of members and basically, the increase should 
be  in  members  from  the  developing  countries.  The 
fundamental goal must be to overcome the unjustifiable 
lack of representation of the developing countries in the 
Security  Council.  The  new  members  of  an  expanded 
Council,  both  permanent  and  non-permanent,  should 
have  the  same  duties  and  prerogatives  that  current 
members  enjoy,  including  the  veto,  if  that  cannot  be 
eliminated. Cuba would not be opposed to the possibility 
of  the  immediate  re-election  of  the  non-permanent 
members. Cuba is not in favour of the creation of new 
categories  of  members,  because  that  could  further 
deepen existing differences and encourage division in 
the body.
With  regard  to  the  veto,  Cuba’s  views  are  well 
known. That antidemocratic and anachronistic privilege 
should, in our firm belief, be eliminated. The reform of 
the  Council  must  include,  as  a  priority,  reform  of  its 
working methods. We advocate a transparent Security 
Council,  where  closed-door  consultations  would 
be  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule.  We  aspire  to  a 
Council that deals with themes within its purview and 
does not encroach on the other principal bodies of the 
United  Nations.  We  want  a  Council  that  really  takes 
into  account  the  opinions  of  the  States  Members  of 
the  Organization  before  adopting  decisions  and  that 
guarantees a real level of access to States that are not 
members of the organ.
I  reiterate  that  Cuba  does  not  insist  on  achieving 
an immediate agreement. We understand perfectly the 
complexities and sensitivities of the process, which will 
take  time,  effort  and  especially,  a  spirit  of  flexibility 
in the negotiations. However, to pretend that we accept 
as  valid  the  structure  and  procedures  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  were  designed  in  1945  for  a  world 
order that no longer exists, when facing challenges and 
threats unimaginable at the time that the Organization 
was established would be to obstinately fail to realize 
the dramatic evolution of international relations and of 
the  United  Nations  over  the  past  70  years.  Reform  of 
the  Security  Council  in  the  twenty-first  century  will 
be  a  triumph  of  multilateralism,  peace  and  maturity, 
building  on  the  experience  of  seven  decades,  and  not 
Mr.  Orellana  Zabalza  (Guatemala)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Ambassador Sylvie Lucas and welcome her as the new 
Chair  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  are 
convinced that under her leadership we will be able to 
make progress in reaching consensus on this important 
issue.
My  delegation 
reiterates 
its  commitment 
to 
continuing  to  work  on  the  Security  Council  reform 
process,  which  should  be  exhaustive,  transparent  and 
equitable.  From  our  viewpoint,  institutions  cannot 
remain  static,  nor  can  they  stagnate  in  an  historic 
time  frame.  They  must  be  equipped  for  change  so  as 
to  respond  effectively  to  the  circumstances  in  which 
they  work.  That  vision  is  not  different  from  what  we 
expect in the framework of Security Council reform. It 
is unquestionable that the political and economic world 
reality of 1945 is not comparable to what we are seeing 
today.  That  is  why  we  must  review  the  structure  and 
function of that body. We believe that the Council must 
be  dynamic,  representative  and  transparent.  We  must 
ensure  that  it  can  respond  appropriately  to  any  threat 
to international peace and security in the twenty-first 
century, while at the same time ensuring its efficiency 
and effectiveness.
Given  the  prevailing  paralysis  and  inertia,  the 
Council  is  being  exposed  to  a  progressive  loss  of 
relevance,  which  causes  even  greater  tension  in  the 
prevailing order. That paralysis has, for instance, been 
increasing with the use or the threat of the use of the veto 
by the permanent members of Security Council. Rather 
than  encouraging  collective  defence  with  arguments 
that could ensure consensus, the veto has obstructed and 
diverted common interests and caused division among 
its members. Furthermore, with the passage of time, we 
have proven that the concerns with regard to the veto 
expressed by the majority of delegations during the San 
Francisco Conference in 1945 remain fully valid, which 
further justifies a review of the issue.
Guatemala wonders whether or not the veto should 
be  allowed,  and  in  particular  whether  it  would  be 
desirable for other States to have the same right within 
the framework of Council reform. A first step, which 
we  welcome,  consists  of  the  initiatives  of  France  and 
Mexico to restrict the use of the veto and the proposed 
2/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
code  of  conduct  regarding  Security  Council  action 
against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes. We have supported those initiatives and await 
their implementation.
We know that any change is difficult, and in that 
regard we believe that the process of intergovernmental 
negotiations  must  serve  to  gradually  advance  the 
substantive reform of the Security Council. Differences 
of  opinion  can  be  overcome  only 
the 
commitment and will of all Member States rather than 
through  imposition.  After  more  than  two  decades  of 
discussion, the repetition of various positions has come 
at  a  high  cost  in  terms  of  time,  effort  and  resources. 
Our collective focus must be fixed on achieving a real 
agreement,  through  an  inclusive  process  in  which  we 
are all prepared to be flexible and constructive.
through 
At the same time, it is also important to recognize 
the  role  that  the  members  of  the  Security  Council 
play  in  advancing  that  process.  Regular  discussions 
on  the  Council’s  working  methods  would  allow  us 
to  take  important  steps  to  improve  its  effectiveness 
and  transparency.  Annual  open  debates  on  the  issue 
in  the  Security  Council  also  contribute  to  achieving 
that  commitment.  In  that  respect,  we  are  encouraged 
that  this  morning  the  Council  adopted  presidential 
statement S/PRST/2015/19, on the working methods of 
the Security Council, which was the result of the open 
debate held last week (see S/PV.7539). We consider it a 
valuable contribution.
Lastly,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  process 
of  reforming  the  Security  Council  can  and  must  be 
strengthened  alongside  the  process  of  revitalizing  the 
General Assembly. There is an undeniable connection 
between  the  work  of  the  two  bodies  that  must  be 
improved. The adoption of resolution 69/321 is a clear 
example  of  the  possibility  of  achieving  change  and 
reaching  consensus.  We  hope  to  continue  to  examine 
all pending issues in that regard, and my delegation is 
prepared to work to that end.
Mr. Hetesy (Hungary): Hungary warmly welcomes 
the decision of the President of the General Assembly to 
organize this meeting and to appoint Ambassador Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg, 
as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform. At the same time, we wish to 
express our sincere gratitude to Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  and 
his  team  for  their  commitment  and  for  the  progress 
achieved.  We  also  express  our  appreciation  for  the 
fact  that  the  negotiation  process  was  made  Member 
State-driven, which allowed for real engagement on the 
part  of  all  delegations  that  so  wished,  in  an  inclusive 
and transparent manner.
The  best  way  to  honour  the  work  done  by  the 
outgoing Chair is to maintain the momentum generated 
during the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly. 
There is no need to go back to square one, and the new 
Chair should be able to build on the progress achieved. 
As  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  himself 
pointed  out  this  morning  (see  A/70/PV.43),  there  are 
different and legitimate national views when it comes 
to  Security  Council  reform.  The  only  way  to  take 
those  interests  into  account,  while  working  to  agree 
on  the  much-needed  reform,  is  through  meaningful 
negotiations. 
Hungary,  not  being  a  member  of  any  of  the 
negotiation  groups,  is  ready  to  move  forward  with 
substantive  negotiations  without  preconditions.  We 
call  on  others  to  follow  suit.  In  our  assessment,  for 
substantive  negotiations  we  will  need  a  text  on  the 
basis of which we can start negotiations. Furthermore, 
we will need to have a work programme and meetings 
at  regular  intervals,  aimed  at  producing  new  drafts, 
narrowing down differences and reducing the number 
of outstanding issues, because this type of negotiations 
does not differ from others.
While  we  work  on  comprehensive  reform,  the 
Council  and  United  Nations  Member  States  should 
continue  to  work  on  the  gradual  improvement  of  the 
Council’s  working  methods  and  activities.  The  two 
processes do not exclude each other. On the contrary, 
they  may  create  virtuous  cycles.  Recent  examples 
of  such  an  approach  include  resolution  69/321  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  with  new 
elements  concerning  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-
General.  Since  that  resolution  was  also  mentioned  as 
a  positive  example  today,  may  I  point  out  that  it  was 
also  achieved  through  text-based  negotiations.  Two 
other examples include the Franco-Mexican proposals 
on the use of the veto and the proposed code of conduct 
on  Security  Council  action,  promulgated  by  the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group, 
which is already supported by 106 countries, including 
nine members of the Security Council. That is already 
a tangible result. As we know, the Council needs nine 
affirmative votes to adopt a resolution. We call on the 
other members of the Security Council to follow suit.
15-34312
3/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
The  three  well-coordinated  review  processes  on 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  and  women  and  peace 
and security will also give the Council an opportunity 
to  move  out  of  its  self-imposed  silos.  The  Council 
should  also  make  effective  and  efficient  use  of  the 
windfall of new peacekeeping capacities generated by 
the Peacekeeping Summit.
Finally,  world  leaders  have  also  agreed  recently 
that  peace  and  security  are  clear  prerequisites  for 
sustainable  development,  which,  in  turn,  is  the  basis 
for  lasting  international  peace  and  security.  That 
understanding will have to be translated into new types 
of improved interaction between the Council and other 
United Nations bodies. We warmly welcome, therefore, 
the open debate on the subject in the Security Council 
to be organized by the United Kingdom presidency in 
November.
Mr.  Nduhuura  (Uganda):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Sierra  Leone  and  Coordinator  of 
the Committee of Ten on behalf of the African Union 
member States (see A/70/PV.43).
At the outset, I avail myself of the opportunity to 
commend the President for convening this timely debate 
to  discuss  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters. With profound appreciation, I also 
thank  the  President’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session, for identifying Security Council reform as one 
of his key priorities during his tenure. The momentum 
galvanized  by  the  recent  adoption  of  the  substantive 
Assembly  decision  69/560  on  the  subject,  termed  the 
Kutesa  consensus,  on  14  September,  set  an  abiding 
stage for negotiations.
the 
I  wish  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  on  her 
appointment  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  to  express  our  deepest  gratitude 
to  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
the 
Representative  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during 
the  sixty-
ninth  session,  for  his  valuable  contribution  and 
skilled  leadership  in  stewarding  the  work  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations in an open, transparent 
and consultative manner.
Jamaica  and  Chair  of 
Today’s  world  faces  challenges  that  would  have 
been  difficult  to  comprehend  just  after  the  Second 
World  War.  The  global  body  that  was  established  in 
1945 to save succeeding generations from the scourge of 
war has, however, not lived up to people’s expectations 
seventy years later and runs the risk, therefore, of losing 
relevance if it does not adapt to the realities of today. 
The  commemoration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  founding  of  the  United  Nations  should  serve  to 
enhance the momentum for a Security Council reform 
that  reflects  the  changes  of  the  times  and  achieves 
success in that task.
Uganda  firmly  believes  that  the  United  Nations, 
and  the  Security  Council  in  particular,  must  become 
more  democratic,  inclusive  and  representative  of  our 
world. It should address a historical injustice by giving 
a voice to Africa.
Tasked  with  the  responsibility  of  maintaining 
international peace and security, the Security Council 
has  been  an  integral  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
since  its  establishment  in  1945.  However,  changing 
geopolitical  realities,  coupled  with  an  increase  in 
the  United  Nations  membership,  has  brought  into 
question  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and  legitimacy, 
emphasized by its inability to address recent conflicts 
and humanitarian crises around the globe.
Indeed,  changing  geopolitical  realities  are  cogent 
enough  to  galvanize  momentum  and  obtain  political 
leverage  so  as  to  spur  intergovernmental  negotiations 
and move forward. There is a need to ensure credible 
negotiations and not be satisfied with the mere repetition 
of national and group statements that have characterized 
the intergovernmental negotiation process and resulted 
in no progress being made.
As  we  all  are  aware,  the  journey  towards  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  has  thus  far  been  a  long  and 
tedious  one.  Several  decades  after  the  world  summit 
that prioritized the need for Security Council reform, 
we are still reminded that this topic is by no means a 
new  initiative.  The  challenges  we  face  have  become 
more  complex,  given  the  wide  range  of  new  and 
emerging  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We  therefore  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  to 
make it more representative, effective and efficient.
In  his  keynote  address  in  May  this  year,  during 
the  high-level 
thematic  debate  on  strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and subregional organizations, the President of Uganda 
stated:
4/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
“It  is  very  presumptuous  for  the  five  permanent 
members to claim that they are responsible for global 
security. Out of the global human population, which 
is now 7 billion people, the five permanent members 
represent  only  about  1.9  billion  people.  How  and 
why should they monopolize the responsibility for 
global security? This is a structural deficiency in 
the architecture for global security.”
The  increase  in  the  membership  of  and  equitable 
and  geographical  representation  on 
the  Security 
Council have become imperative because of the need to 
democratize the Council and make it more efficient and 
transparent. The democracy of which Member States are 
constantly reminded should prevail in the international 
system. It is imperative to review the composition and 
the decision-making process of the Council in line with 
the aforementioned principles.
The non-implementation of these ideals puts to the 
test those who preach them. It is important to bear in 
mind the need for equitable geographical representation, 
with  the  emphasis  on  an  increase  in  the  permanent 
membership  for  the  benefit  of  the  African  continent, 
which  has  remained  unrepresented  in  the  permanent 
category  and  underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent 
category,  as  reflected  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  The  African  Common  Position 
garners the broad support of the wider membership of 
this body, and Uganda commends those Member States 
that  have  frequently  expressed  their  support  for  the 
African Common Position.
The work done during the previous session, and in 
particular the text that was circulated by the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session 
in  his  letter  dated  31  July,  remain  the  only  basis  for 
negotiations. We are grateful that in his letter appointing 
the  new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
President Lykketoft emphasized the text and its annex 
as per decision 69/560. This resonates with the theme 
of the seventieth session, “The United Nations at 70: a 
new commitment to action”.
I wish to stress that commitment to reform should be 
reflected in a willingness to demonstrate a commitment 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  by 
making progress in that context. The task ahead is to 
commence negotiations in a spirit of compromise and 
flexibility,  based  on  the  same  text  as  per  established 
practice in this body.
It  is  my  hope  that  today’s  debate  will  serve  as  a 
useful foundation for reform discussions and galvanize 
productive negotiations over the coming months. Rest 
assured of Uganda’s commitment to supporting the new 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations in moving 
this process forward.
Let  us  preserve  and  promote  the  noble  ideals  for 
which the United Nations was established.
Mr. Aboulatta (Egypt): I would like at the outset 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
having  convened  this  annual  plenary  meeting  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council. I wish in this 
connection to express my appreciation to the Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray, for his hard work and dedication as Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  sixty-ninth 
session of the General Assembly. We are confident that 
his  inspiring  enthusiasm  and  principled  dedication  to 
the cause of reform will remain as vital an asset in his 
current capacity as a vocal representative of a Member 
State as it was during his presence at the helm of the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
In the same vein, I extend my sincere congratulations 
to  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  on  her  appointment  as 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  am 
confident that with her wisdom and devotion, she will 
be  able  to  bring  us  closer  to  our  desired  destination 
of a reformed Security Council and a stronger United 
Nations. She may rest assured of my delegation’s full 
support and cooperation.
Egypt associates itself with the statements delivered 
on behalf of the Group of African States and the Group 
of Arab States (see A/70/PV.43).
Egypt holds the firm belief that a more representative, 
credible and democratic Security Council is an integral 
element of the reform of the United Nations to enable 
it  to  effectively  undertake  its  responsibilities  as 
enshrined in the Charter. These goals can be achieved 
only  through  an  intergovernmental  process  that  is 
transparent,  fully 
inclusive  and  State-owned  and 
driven,  seeking  a  comprehensive  solution  that  can 
garner  the  widest  agreement  by  Member  States  and 
that addresses the five key issues stipulated in decision 
62/557. That decision, which was adopted by consensus 
by the entire membership, established the foundation of 
the current intergovernmental negotiations process, and 
15-34312
5/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
staying faithful to its provisions is the key to moving 
the process forward.
and  to  affirm  Malaysia’s  commitment  to  working 
closely and constructively with her.
The  new  chairmanship  of  this  process  provides 
a  much-needed  opportunity  to  focus  the  process  of 
negotiations  on  its  set  goal,  which  is  to  reform  the 
Security  Council  by  making  it  more  representative, 
credible  and  effective  while  preserving  the  founding 
values  of  the  Organization,  which  is  based  on  the 
concept  of  united  nations.  The  Organization  can  be 
more representative, effective and credibly only when it 
remains united. The widest political agreement is hence 
the  key  to  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council  as 
projected by decision 62/557.
the  principles  and  criteria  underpinning 
For that reason, the process of negotiations can best 
advance  with  reassurance  on  and  further  elaboration 
of 
the 
negotiations.  This  is  not  new;  it  has  been  stated  over 
and over. The time is now ripe for full implementation 
so as to preserve the unity of the general membership by 
reaching an agreed vision for the future of the process 
and how to move it forward.
A piecemeal approach that is driven by the desire 
of a few for expansion rather than by a commitment to 
general reform will not lead to a more representative, 
credible or effective Council. The Council has suffered 
for  too  long  from  paralysis  and  selectivity  on  many 
occasions. Only comprehensive reform, not a cosmetic 
adjustment  in  its  membership  or  working  methods, 
can address the current structural imbalances. In that 
context,  we  are  reminded  of  the  historical  injustice 
suffered  by  Africa,  which  remains  the  only  continent 
absent from the permanent membership of the Council, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  Council  agenda  remains 
substantially  focused  on  issues  related  to  peace  and 
security  on  the  continent.  That  further  attests  to  the 
unique relevance and distinctive, comprehensive nature 
of the Common African Position.
Mr.  Cheong  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
thank  the  President  for  convening  this  timely  and 
important debate. 
On behalf of my delegation, I take this opportunity 
to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  for  his  tireless  efforts  in 
steering  the  work  of  the  previous  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  I  also  wish 
to  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxemburg,  on  her  appointment  as 
the  new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
As  a  current  non-permanent  member  of 
the 
Security  Council,  Malaysia  remains  steadfast  in  its 
determination to see a more representative, democratic, 
legitimate, transparent and, ultimately, a more efficient 
and  effective  Security  Council.  However,  for  the  past 
seven  years,  despite  the  best  efforts,  there  has  been 
no official document that could provide a sound basis 
for  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  Against 
that  background,  my  delegation  welcomes  and  fully 
supports  the  decisions  contained  in  decision  69/560 
of 14 September, which was adopted under the Kutesa 
consensus. We share the assessment that that decision 
represents  a  historic  milestone  and  game-changer. 
Malaysia  looks  forward  to  making  further  progress 
on  all  the  issues  being  dealt  with  in  the  negotiations 
process during the current General Assembly session. 
We  believe  that  text-based  negotiations  are  the  right 
way forward.
Malaysia  has  been  consistent  in  reiterating  its 
position  on  the  core  issues  of  Council  reform.  We 
continue to believe that there is a need to expand the 
Council’s  membership  so  as  to  include  developing 
countries in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories  and 
to  ensure  equitable  geographical 
representation.  Such  expansion  would  strengthen  the 
Council’s role and provide for more inclusiveness in its 
decision-making process.
On the question of the veto power held by the five 
permanent members, Malaysia supports the call for the 
abolishment of the use of the veto in conformity with 
the principle of sovereign equality as enshrined in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also  fully  support 
the  call  for  restraint  in  the  use  of  the  veto  power, 
especially in cases of international crimes of the most 
serious nature, such as genocide, war crimes and crimes 
against humanity. For those reasons, we are pleased to 
have joined the two recent initiatives introduced by a 
group  of  like-minded  countries  to  regulate  the  use  of 
the veto.
Malaysia strongly supports the view that, overall, 
the work of the Security Council should be enhanced 
and  improved.  Working  within  the  context  of  the 
Security  Council,  we  have  consistently  supported 
efforts  to  enhance  and  improve  the  annual  reports  of 
the  Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly.  We 
also see value in the practice of regular consultations 
6/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
between  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the President of the Security Council. In addition, we 
strongly  believe  that  there  should  be  more  structured 
interaction  and  regular  consultations  between  the 
Council and the Peacebuilding Commission.
With  regard  to  the  Council’s  working  methods, 
Malaysia,  along  with  other  Council  members,  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent,  will  continue  to  work 
to  enhance  the  transparency  and  inclusiveness  of  the 
various  aspects  of  the  Council’s  work.  In  that  regard, 
we  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Council  was  able  to 
agree on presidential statement S/PRST/2015/19, which 
was adopted earlier today.
A  working  draft  document  on  Council  reform, 
encompassing  all  the  various  proposals  submitted  by 
Member States, would enable us to clearly identify areas 
where  differences  can  be  bridged.  More  importantly, 
negotiations  should  continue  to  be  conducted  in  an 
inclusive and transparent manner. It is worth recalling 
that in 2005, our leaders committed to a reform of the 
Security  Council.  Indeed,  the  reform  of  the  Council 
is  long  overdue.  The  need  for  an  effective  Security 
Council capable of responding to the emerging threats 
to international peace and security cannot be overstated. 
Therefore,  a  reformed  Security  Council  that  is  more 
democratic,  efficient  and  transparent  is  paramount  in 
order  to  better  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the 
twenty-first century.
For  all  of  us  to  make  meaningful  progress  in  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  all  Member  States 
must demonstrate the necessary political will and the 
willingness  to  compromise  and  show  considerable 
flexibility.  That  will  require  that  all  stakeholders 
approach the upcoming negotiations with an open mind 
and  move  away  from  entrenched  national  and  group 
positions.
In conclusion, I wish to assure the President of the 
Assembly and all Member States of my delegation’s full 
support and cooperation in moving the process forward.
Ms. Mutandi (Zambia): Zambia aligns itself with 
the statement delivered by the Permanent Representative 
of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/70/PV.43).
I  wish  to  echo  the  sentiments  expressed  by 
delegations that have spoken before me to congratulate 
the President of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session.  He  may  rest  assured  of  my  delegation’s 
total  support.  With  his  expertise  and  guidance,  we 
are  confident  that  the  General  Assembly  will  make 
tremendous strides on the various issues of interest to 
the States Members of the United Nations. I also wish to 
applaud the efforts of his predecessor, Mr. Sam Kutesa, 
who placed the issue of Security Council reform among 
his  priorities  during  his  tenure  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its previous session.
I  also  wish  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxemburg,  on 
her appointment as facilitator for the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  As  stated 
by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone,  Zambia,  which 
worked as part of the Committee  of Ten of the African 
Group and provided full support, has every confidence 
in Ambassador Lucas’ abilities to move the negotiations 
process  forward.  I  also  want  to  pay  special  tribute 
to  her  predecessor,  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for the traction 
that  he  gave  to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
during the sixty-ninth session.
Zambia  believes  in  the  key  tenets  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  promote 
the  equality  of  nations  and  individuals.  It  is  for  that 
reason  that  Zambia,  through  the  united  efforts  of  the 
African Group, has been promoting the just cause for 
inclusiveness,  equitable  representation,  transparency 
and  full  accountability  of 
the  Security  Council 
through the process of reforms. It is an undeniable fact 
that,  in  the  past  70  years,  the  geopolitical  landscape 
has  been  transformed  in  a  manner  that  requires  us 
to  make  profound  adjustments  to  our  approach  to 
decision-making  on  issues  of  international  peace  and 
security.
It is our humble expectation that this session will 
build  on  the  progress  achieved  so  far  and  advance 
towards  realizing  the  aspirations  of  Africa,  which 
remains 
in 
the  non-permanent  category  and  not  represented 
in  the  permanent  category.  Zambia,  as  part  of  the 
African  Group,  reiterates  its  position  for  the  full  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
the  only  continent  underrepresented 
In conclusion, we reaffirm our commitment to the 
reform  process  and  therefore  ask  the  United  Nations 
membership to address Africa’s historical injustice as 
a continent that has been denied its rightful place in the 
house of nations. Seventy years after the establishment 
15-34312
7/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
of the United Nations, let us not have another 70 years 
premised on the practice of such an imbalance.
system that can count on the capacities and necessary 
tools to be able to meet those challenges.
Ms. Mejía Vélez (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I 
would like to begin by thanking the former President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  and 
Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray  for 
their  efforts 
during the sixty-ninth session. I also wish to welcome 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  in  her  new  capacity  as 
facilitator of this essential negotiating process for our 
Organization. With her insider’s knowledge gained as a  
member of the Security Council for the past two years, 
I am sure that we can count on Ambassador Lucas as 
someone who understands the difficulties of a Council 
that  is  constrained  by  its  structure,  working  methods 
and composition, which can, on occasion, endanger its 
effective and democratic functioning.
As  Ambassador  Sebastiano  Cardi,  Permanent 
Representative of Italy, said in his role as coordinator 
of the Uniting for Consensus group (see A/70/PV.43), 
which my delegation endorses, Security Council reform 
must respond to a process guided by the Member States 
of the Organization, pursuant to decision 62/557. Any 
other method of proceeding would hinder the necessary 
reform. 
To be able to advance, it is necessary that during 
the  course  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  we 
change the dynamic so that it is not stagnant and so that 
in each subsequent cycle, we do not have to begin from 
zero with a clear waste of resources and time, achieving 
a result that, at the end of the day, is not in everyone’s 
interest.
Colombia’s  traditional  position  of  rejecting,  inter 
alia,  the  expansion  of  the  privileges  established  on 
matters  such  as  the  veto,  remains  as  valid  as  ever,  as 
we  see  the  difficulties  it  causes  in  the  Council  when 
the Council must confront current crises. Guided by the 
principles  of  democracy,  transparency  and  inclusion, 
we  must  find  a  way  to  overcome  the  very  difficult 
problems confronting humankind.
Other  efforts  have  been  made  to  strengthen  the 
work of the United Nations and to ensure that the system 
works in a more coordinated and coherent way when it 
seeks to achieve a sustainable peace, which is one of its 
primary objectives. That is why much of the reviews of 
peacekeeping operations, and the new architecture for 
peacebuilding  are  aimed  at  dealing  comprehensively 
with  conflict,  from  its  genesis  to  its  evolution  to  its 
later stages. That vision will require a United Nations 
My delegation welcomes this process and values the 
efforts of the President in conducting this exercise on a 
subject that summons, without doubt, the interests and 
commitment of all Member States in an open, inclusive 
and  transparent  way  that  will  allow  for  everyone’s 
participation, without exception, as we build a Security 
Council that is representative of the new realities of the 
twenty-first century.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
As  we  take  one  more  step  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process,  Mexico  welcomes  this  meeting 
and the appointment of Ambassador Sylvie Lucas as the 
new facilitator of the deliberations on Security Council 
reform.  We  give  her  all  our  support  and  willingness 
to work towards a common objective and a result that 
will be acceptable tor all. I also take this opportunity 
to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray  for  the  long 
hours he invested in this exercise.
The  sixty-ninth  session  has  a  record  full  of 
contrasts.  The  participation  of  Member  States  in  the 
process revealed without a doubt our ongoing interest 
in  changing  the  status  quo.  But  at  the  same  time, 
contributions to the debate revealed that we still have 
deep divisions on the form and substance of Security 
Council reform. 
the 
For  more  than  two  decades,  we  have  discussed 
various  reform  models  under  a  number  of  modalities, 
none  of  which  has  been  able  to  garner  the  necessary 
support  for  enactment.  The  meeting 
to  discuss 
Security Council reform held in Rome in May clearly 
demonstrated 
inclination  of  many  countries, 
including  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council, to explore alternative approaches, such as the 
one that Mexico and the Uniting for Consensus group 
have  been  promoting.  We  are  offering  a  compromise 
solution,  one  that  could  be  endorsed  by  the  greatest 
number  of  Member  States  without  trying  to  impose 
a  formula  with  a  predetermined  outcome  in  terms  of 
seats.
We  cannot  advocate  and  encourage  democratic 
processes around the world collectively and at the same 
time support broadening the privileges for some in the 
executive  body  of  our  Organization.  Mexico  and  the 
Uniting for Consensus group are fighting for a reform 
formula that will bring to 26 the number of members 
of the Council, with five additional seats for two years 
8/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
and six seats that, based on the principle of equitable 
geographical distribution, are to be occupied with longer 
mandates and the possibility of immediate re-election. 
That formula would allow for a decision-making process 
that would be more democratic and efficient and would 
reconcile the aspirations of everyone, thereby adjusting 
the  composition  of  the  Council  to  the  new  regional 
realities  and  ensuring  States  wanting  to  serve  more 
frequently in the Council a larger presence than usual.
As  Latin  Americans,  we  perfectly  understand  the 
aspirations of the Group of African States for equitable 
representation, which would allow them to play the role 
in  the  Council  that  should  be  theirs.  We  understand 
their legitimate claim as an expression of the strength 
that  unity  and  consensus  grant  them,  and  not  as  an 
individual aspiration for power and privilege.
Security  Council  reform  is  a  process  that  can  be 
guided solely by all of the States Members of the United 
Nations and not just by some. If the practice persists of 
granting privileges in perpetuity to some States in order 
to  satisfy  national  ambitions  to  the  detriment  of  the 
collective interests, we will not achieve our objective. 
The lack of transparency and of uniform consultations 
with all stakeholders in the process that we witnessed 
during the previous session did not help in smoothing 
over our differences, and it generated an environment 
of  mistrust  and  secrecy,  such  as  we  already  see  in 
the dynamics between the permanent members of the 
Council and the rest.
Over  the  course  of  years  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  we  have  noted  that  the  most  important 
quality  of  a  facilitator  is  to  know  how  to  listen  to 
the  positions  of  all  Member  States  with  impartiality, 
transparency  and  objectivity  and,  on  that  basis,  to 
determine  the  path  that  will  allow  us  to  generate 
agreements toward a solution that will have the broadest 
possible support.
In  that  spirit,  we  would  respectfully  ask  the 
facilitator that whatever document or schedule is used 
to  guide  our  deliberations  during  this  session,  it  be 
discussed  ahead  of  time  with  the  major  negotiating 
groups  with  absolute  transparency  and  under  equal 
conditions. Only in that way can we start with common 
positions  and  understandings.  We  trust  that,  in  full 
awareness  of  the  divergent  positions  on  the  topic,  the 
able  leadership  of  the  facilitator  and  of  the  President 
of the General Assembly will lead us to a compromise 
solution that we will all welcome.
Mr. Abdrakhmanov (Kazakhstan): At the outset, 
the delegation of Kazakhstan expresses its gratitude for 
the hard work and enthusiasm of Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, and his 
team for coordinating and providing momentum to the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. We also take this opportunity to congratulate 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg  on  her 
appointment as Chair of this session’s intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  topic  and  assure  her  of  our  full 
support.
The reform of the Security Council is an important 
part  of  the  overall  process  of  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  aimed  at  enhancing  its  response  capabilities 
to  deal  with  current  complex  and  multidimensional 
issues.  That  process  should  be  implemented  on  the 
basis  of  consensus  in  accordance  with  the  goals  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and in 
a  way  reflecting  the  views  of  all  Member  States.  We 
note with satisfaction that, despite the various points of 
view, there is a common understanding that, whatever 
the  new  configuration  of  the  Security  Council  might 
be, it must function actively and effectively to maintain 
international peace and security.
We support a comprehensive approach to Security 
Council reform that seeks to address all key issues, such 
as  expanding  the  Security  Council  membership,  first 
of  all,  including  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats 
for the Group of African States, improving its working 
methods and addressing the questions of the veto and 
the Council’s relationship with the General Assembly.
The  issue  of  sanctions  is  also  a  very  important 
part  of  the  work  of  the  Council.  As  the  President  of 
Kazakhstan  stated  in  the  Assembly’s  general  debate 
last month:
“It is crucial to prevent the arbitrary imposition 
of  sanctions,  which  contradicts  both  the  Charter 
and  international  law.  I  am  convinced  that  the 
right  to  impose  international  sanctions,  which 
can  adversely  affect  the  well-being  of  millions  of 
people, should remain the exclusive prerogative of 
the Security Council.” (A/70/PV.13, p. 47)
Given the major responsibilities of the Council and 
the Assembly, improved cooperation between those two 
principle organs is absolutely essential. That could be 
achieved  through  regular  consultations  between  the 
Presidents  of  the  main  bodies  and  by  increasing  the 
frequency  of  the  qualitative  reports  and  evaluations 
15-34312
9/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
of the Council’s work to the General Assembly on an 
ongoing  basis  and  by  improving  the  Council’s  annual 
report. 
The establishment of arbitrary deadlines for reform 
should  be  avoided.  Any  solution  needs  to  be  mature 
and carefully considered. However, unnecessary delays 
might be equally dangerous and harmful.
To move the negotiations forward demands a new 
understanding  aimed  at  breaching  the  divergences  in 
views  among  the  vast  number  of  Member  States  and 
their  political  orientations  and  national 
interests. 
We  therefore  call  for  a  spirit  of  compromise  and 
inclusiveness, so as to gain the widest possible common 
ground. The proposals with regard to the veto power, 
with  all  its  implications,  should  be  carefully  studied, 
and a viable and mutually acceptable solution must be 
found soon.
We  believe  that  a  change  in  working  methods 
does  not  require  an  amendment  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  nor  a  two-thirds  favourable  majority 
of  Members  to  be  adopted.  Kazakhstan  is  also  of  the 
view that an improvement in the working methods will 
not limit the power of the Council or subordinate it to 
the  General  Assembly,  but  will  rather  strengthen  the 
Security Council to make it more efficient.
The  Charter  specifies  that  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  are  equal  bodies.  Therefore 
greater  dialogue  and  collaboration  between 
the 
two  will  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  both  entities, 
especially  the  Council,  as  it  gains  new  perspectives 
from  the  Assembly’s  wider  membership.  At  the  same 
time, many countries that have little or no power in the 
Council see the General Assembly as their only avenue 
for  influencing  the  United  Nations.  Since  the  most 
important decision that the Council will make in 2016 
is the election of the next Secretary-General, we believe 
that the slate of candidates should be shared with the 
General Assembly, so that it can have a greater say in 
the  selection  for  that  highest  office,  which  should  be 
based on merit of the highest order.
What is most needed is not just reforms, but changed 
attitudes.  The  national  interests  of  Member  States 
must  be  balanced  with  greater  objectivity  and  global 
perspectives.  We  believe  that  the  Council  would  also 
benefit from greater dialogue with the United Nations 
system, regional organizations and specialized security 
entities,  as  well  as  with  specialized  institutions  and 
civil society, which often play a key role in maintaining 
peace and security.
In conclusion, I reiterate Kazakhstan’s commitment 
to  engage  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
work  in  a  spirit  of  compromise  and  cooperation  to 
swiftly finalize the reform of the Security Council.
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  We  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement delivered by the Permanent Representative of 
Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group (see 
A/70/PV.43). The following are some additional points 
presented in my national capacity.
Our  appreciation  goes  to  Ambassador  Rattray  for 
his contributions to our deliberations last year, and we 
welcome  and  congratulate  Ambassador  Lucas  on  her 
appointment. We look forward to working closely with 
her.
We  are  starting  a  new  round  of  negotiations  on 
one  of  the  most  critical  matters  on  the  agenda  of  our 
Organization.  Almost  all  of  us  agree  that  reform  is 
needed  and,  indeed,  that  it  is  urgent.  The  statements 
today  on  the  need  for  reform  are  not  mere  rhetorical 
expressions.  With  every  single  day  we  spend  on  this 
matter, we bear the responsibility for the sufferings of 
millions stemming from the structural shortcomings of 
the current system. That is a disturbing reality, which 
recalls the moral obligations the we all bear to champion 
equality and accountability on every front.
Reform  is  a  forward-looking  concept  that  seeks 
to  make  changes  for  improvement.  It  is  not  a  static 
concept. Therefore, if a change is to be called reform, it 
must address the shortcomings, rather than consolidate 
existing problems. That is the basic but critical aspect 
on which our proposals for reform differ. Obviously, it 
is the permanent membership issue and the question of 
the veto that cause many of the problems today. We still 
do not have an answer to the simple question of what 
the added value will be if we increase the number of the 
defective elements in the system.
With that understanding, we are for a meaningful 
and  principled  reform  that  would  bring  about  a  more 
democratic,  representative,  effective,  transparent  and 
accountable Council. We think that that can be achieved 
by increasing only the number of elected members of 
the Council. For those aspiring to longer service in the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  we 
are  proposing  a  longer-term  seat  with  the  possibility 
of  re-election.  Ideally,  the  veto  should  be  abolished. 
10/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
We welcome the initiatives to limit the use of negative 
votes in cases of mass atrocities.
More  equitable  representation  of  regional  groups, 
including  enhanced  opportunities  for  those  that  are 
more vulnerable, is a must for a reformed Council.
The  Council’s  working  methods  and  relationship 
with  the  General  Assembly  are  no  less  important, 
since  they  define  the  daily  dynamics  of  the  system. 
In that regard, only a comprehensive approach can be 
successful  if  we  are  to  address  the  whole  package  of 
interrelated aspects of this issue.
It  is  natural  to  have  different  views  about  the 
solutions  to  a  problem.  However,  in  order  to  be  able 
to proceed with negotiations, we must be on the same 
page,  working  for  the  same  goal.  Needless  to  say,  an 
issue  that  has  a  direct  impact  on  the  lives  of  today’s 
generations and those of the future requires a general 
spirit of compromise and a process of consensus.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
clarify  the  views  and  positions  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  on  the  issue  of  Security 
Council reform.
On the occasion of the seventieth anniversary of the 
founding of the United Nations, it is very important to 
reflect on its essential mission and role in the context of 
reform of the Security Council. Born out of the demise 
of fascism and militarism, the United Nations saw the 
maintenance of peace and security as the motive for its 
establishment,  as  well  as  the  purpose  of  its  existence 
and its fundamental principle. 
The first sentence of the Preamble to the Charter of 
the United Nations,
“We 
the  peoples  of 
the  United  Nations, 
determined  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has 
brought untold sorrow to mankind”,
tells  us  the  very  meaning  of  the  purpose  of  founding 
the  United  Nations.  The  role  of  the  Security  Council 
is  crucial  to  fulfilling  the  Organization’s  mission  of 
maintaining international peace and security, because 
the Council, along with the General Assembly, has the 
special function of maintaining international peace and 
security, as provided for in the Charter.
However, when we raise the question as to whether 
the Security Council is truly fulfilling its responsibility 
and role as stipulated in the Charter and in accordance 
with the demands of the international community, the 
answer  is  far  from  what  we  should  expect,  based  on 
today’s  reality.  History  continues  to  advance,  and  the 
expectations and demands for peace and security of the 
States Members of the United Nations and the peoples 
of the world are greater than ever. And yet the Security 
Council’s  attitude,  particularly  to  international  and 
regional issues, is still mired in the Cold War era. The 
most  disappointing  and  even  dangerous  fact  is  that 
some  members  of  the  Council  with  permanent  vested 
interests  use  issues  concerning  international  affairs 
and the sovereignty of United Nations Member States 
to recklessly pursue their own interests, based on their 
individual purposes and views. The Security Council’s 
misconduct in dealing with issues relating to the Korean 
peninsula is a typical example.
Every year the United States of America conducts a 
number of large-scale military exercises in South Korea 
and  beyond,  mobilizing  massive  armed  forces  and  all 
kinds  of  strategic  nuclear  strike  equipment  in  what 
are in fact nuclear war games against the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  This  year,  facing  such 
military threats from the world’s largest nuclear-weapon 
State, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has 
repeatedly requested that the Security Council include 
the United States joint military exercises as an item on 
its agenda. The exercises, which include every means 
required  for  a  nuclear  strike,  are  serious  military 
provocations,  aimed  at  igniting  a  second  Korean  War 
and  with  the  purpose  of  occupying  Pyongyang,  the 
capital of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
That  is  why  the  problem  is  no  longer  confined  to 
relations between the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea and the United States or between the two Koreas. 
It  is  an  international  issue  that  threatens  peace  and 
security in North-East Asia and beyond.
The Security Council has nevertheless ignored the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  reasonable 
requests,  which  are  directly  related  to  international 
peace  and  security.  Indeed,  on  the  contrary,  it  has 
oppressed the sovereign rights of an independent State 
by  making  an  issue  of  its  legitimate  right  to  explore 
outer space for a peaceful purpose and terming it a so-
called human rights issue by linking it indissolubly to 
matters of peace and security. 
The Security Council has shown its true colours as 
it has become a political tool of certain countries and 
given  up  its  primary  mission  of  maintaining  genuine 
15-34312
11/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
peace and security. That is why, more than ever, there 
is  a  continuing  demand  and  necessity  for  Security 
Council  reform.  The  situation  today  testifies  to  the 
fact  that  international  peace  and  security  can  never 
be  maintained  unless  we  reform  the  anachronistic 
structure, double standards and working methods of the 
Security Council.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  of 
the view that Security Council reform should be guided 
in  a  direction  that  will  ensure  that  the  old  system  is 
restructured  and  that  the  new  system  is  able  to  fully 
guarantee  the  sovereignty  and  right  to  development, 
peace  and  security  of  all  Member  States  in  an  equal 
and impartial manner, based on the principle of respect 
for their sovereign equality.
First,  in  reforming  the  Security  Council,  the 
principles  of  impartiality,  objectivity  and  democracy, 
as  well  as  of  the  full  representation  of  all  Member 
States  and  of  consensus,  should  be  fully  applied  and 
guaranteed.  The  Council  should  consistently  reject 
certain  countries’  high-handedness  and  pursuit  of 
their own purposes, as well as arbitrariness and double 
standards.  A  strict  mechanism  should  be  introduced 
into  the  Council’s  new  structure  designed  to  ensure 
that  Council  resolutions  and  decisions  related  to 
sanctions or the use of force that could seriously affect 
international peace and security can go into effect only 
after  final  authorization  by  the  General  Assembly, 
which  represents  the  full  membership  of  the  United 
Nations.
Secondly, the composition of the Council should be 
based on the principle of ensuring the full representation 
of  member  States  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
other  developing  countries.  Since  such  States  form 
the majority of the membership of the United Nations, 
it  cannot  be  a  matter  for  debate  that  they  should  be 
represented accordingly in the Security Council. 
As  we  have  seen  during  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation  process  on  Security  Council  reform,  the 
prospects  for  enlarging 
the  Council’s  permanent 
membership  are  not  good,  owing  to  the  seriously 
divided  views  of  Member  States.  Under 
those 
circumstances,  therefore,  and  in  view  of  the  urgent 
need  for  reform,  a  preferable  and  viable  solution  for 
redressing the Council’s unbalanced and unreasonable 
structure would be to begin by enlarging the category 
of its non-permanent members.
Thirdly, reform of the Security Council should be 
instituted neither for its own sake nor in order to serve 
the purposes and interests of a few particular countries. 
It  should  be  true  reform  that  can  enable  the  Council 
to make a genuine contribution to maintaining lasting 
international  peace  and  security,  responding  to  the 
common  interests  and  demands  of  the  overwhelming 
majority of Member States, in accordance with changed 
realities.  In  that  regard,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  seriously  concerned  about  the 
behaviour of Japan, which is itself unusually eager for 
Security Council reform.
Although 70 years have passed since the establishment 
of  the  United  Nations,  based  on  its  determination  to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, 
the wounds and misfortunes of that war are yet to be 
fully  healed.  They  still  fester  deeply  in  the  hearts  of 
the victims and other peoples who suffered in that war. 
That  is  because  Japan,  which  provoked  that  war  and 
committed  terrible,  inhumane  crimes  during  the  war, 
has  not  only  failed  to  liquidate  its  shameful  past  but 
also has no intention to do so. On the contrary, Japan, 
which should be taking the road of peace, is taking the 
road of reviving militarism in the very year that marks 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  defeat  of  Japanese 
militarism.
In its statement issued in August, on the seventieth 
anniversary of the defeat of imperial Japan, the Japanese 
Government openly revealed that it will no longer settle 
its past war crimes against the Asian nations. To make 
matters  worse,  it  is  turning  Japan  into  a  country  that 
can  make  war  by  revising  its  Constitution.  Japanese 
militarism is once again on the rise. By disguising its 
pursuit  of  militarism  with  a  rhetorical  contribution 
to  peacekeeping  and  by  seeking  to  be  included  in 
the  expanded  permanent  membership  of  the  Security 
Council, Japan is attempting to erase its shameful past 
and  inhumane  war  crimes.  That  is  why  Japan  is  so 
interested in Security Council reform.
Japan is the one and only country that committed 
State-sponsored  crimes  of  military  sexual  slavery 
against  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Korean  women  and 
women of other nations during the Second World War. 
But  it  is  still  refusing  to  make  a  sincere  apology  and 
to  offer  compensation  to  the  victims.  Japan,  which 
denies  its  crimes  of  sexual  slavery,  has  no  right  to 
take  a  seat  on  a  Security  Council  that  attaches  great 
importance to women and peace and security. We need 
to  look  back  in  history  and  look  ahead  to  the  future. 
12/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
We should be prudent enough to realize that if Japan’s 
attempt  to  become  a  new  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  is  allowed,  there  will  be  disastrous 
consequences for current and future generations.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea hopes 
that Security Council reform will be guided in the right 
direction.  We  will  continue  to  actively  engage  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.
Mr. Luque Márquez (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
For Ecuador, as for the great majority of Members of 
the  United  Nations,  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
is  urgently  needed  in  order  to  make  this  body  more 
democratic,  transparent  and  effective  and  to  bring 
it  into  line  with  the  realities  of  today’s  world  and  the 
membership  of  the  Organization.  To  be  lasting,  such 
reform must be comprehensive and must avoid creating 
a  static  configuration  of  the  Council  that  would  be 
outdated in a few decades, as is the case now, when this 
body reflects the geopolitical realities of 70 years ago. 
We should be able to design a Security Council that will 
not require further discussions on new reforms in 20, 
30 or 40 years’ time.
For  Ecuador,  the  reform  process  must  continue 
to  be  guided  by  the  five  principal  themes  set  out  in 
decision  62/557,  of  15  September  2008:  categories 
of  membership;  the  question  of  the  veto;  regional 
representation;  the  size  of  the  Security  Council  and 
its working methods; and the relationship between the 
Council and the General Assembly. On that last point, 
I must repeat that my country rejects attempts by the 
Council  to  assume  tasks  that  the  Charter  expressly 
assigned  to  the  General  Assembly  and  its  subsidiary 
bodies or to the Economic and Social Council. Reform, 
in the end, needs to be comprehensive and must advance 
those five themes to be effective.
takes  note  of 
My  delegation 
the  consensual 
adoption,  on  14  September,  of  decision  69/560.  We 
consider  that,  without  prejudging  the  final  form  that 
eventual  reform  might  take,  it  is  important  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process  be  conducted 
and continue on the basis of consensus. We believe that 
the best way to ensure the greatest possible convergence 
of positions is that the process itself should proceed on 
a consensual basis that takes into account the positions 
and opinions of all Member States in a spirit of mutual 
respect. A possible and effective reform of the Security 
Council should be the outcome of the convergence of all 
opinions that have been expressed on this fundamental 
topic.  In  that  regard,  we  must  always  bear  in  mind 
the  requirements  of  the  Charter  for  its  own  reform, 
including approval in the Assembly and the number of 
ratifications required.
While  we  acknowledge  the  usefulness  of  the 
restatement  of  the  positions  of  some  Member  States 
contained  in  the  letter  and  its  annexes  circulated  on 
31 July by His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, President 
of  the  Assembly  at  the  sixty-ninth  session,  we  must 
bear  in  mind  that  that  compiliation  does  not  reflect 
the criteria of all Member States and therefore cannot 
be considered the definitive or final  expression of the 
membership of the United Nations.
Finally,  as  we  express  our  appreciation  for 
the  work  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  Mr.  Courtenay  Rattray,  who  chaired  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  sixty-ninth 
session, we also wish to welcome the appointment of the 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas, to guide that process during the current 
session. We offer her our support and cooperation.
Mr.  Kullane  (Somalia):  Somalia  associates  itself 
with the statement made by His Excellency Mr. Vandi 
Minah  of  Sierra  Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States (see A/70/PV.43).
Over  the  past  decade,  the  Security  Council  has 
been  of  great  assistance  in  Somalia’s  steady  progress 
into peace, which the Somali people deeply appreciate. 
Somalia  commends  the  Council  for  its  critical  work 
in  discharging  its  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  The  Security 
Council’s  efforts  in  working  closely  with  the  Federal 
Government of Somalia contributed to our trajectory as 
we moved from State failure to State-building.
The Security Council’s ability to adequately address 
the  challenges  to  international  peace  and  security 
directly affects the lives of millions of people around 
the  world.  We  must  measure  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Council through the outcomes that it obtains in terms 
of  both  conflict  prevention  and  conflict  resolution. 
We  believe  that  there  is  no  limit  to  perfection  and 
that  there  is  always  room  for  improving  the  working 
methods of any organization. There is a requirement to 
reform the Security Council, its working methods and 
its  collaboration  with  other  United  Nations  organs  to 
enable it to better react to contemporary realities.
15-34312
13/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
We welcome the appointment of Ambassador Sylvie 
Lucas of Luxembourg as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations, and we also sincerely thank the outgoing 
Chair,  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
for  his 
tremendous work. 
We are pleased that last month the General Assembly 
was able to adopt by consensus decision 69/560, which 
formally  recognizes  the  text  and  its  annex  circulated 
on  31  July  as  the  basis  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.
We  welcome  the  improved  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  regional  and  subregional 
organizations. That cooperation should be an ongoing 
and  dynamic  process,  so  that  its  advantages  can  be 
reflected in the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  We  encourage  closer  cooperation  between 
the African Union Peace and Security Council and the 
Security  Council  under  the  provisions  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to  delivering  and 
implementing more effective, strategic decisions.
Today, 8 out of the 18 United Nations peacekeeping 
missions  are  deployed  in  Africa.  Therefore,  it  is 
obvious that Africa, with its 54 Member States, cannot 
remain the only continent that has neither a permanent 
seat nor the veto power. The legitimacy and credibility 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  effectiveness  of  its 
action  will  depend  on  its  ability  to  evolve  and  adapt 
to  modern  changes  and  representation.  The  current 
underrepresentation of Africa is clear evidence of the 
absence of impartiality in the Security Council. 
Moreover, we consider it unacceptable that in the 
twenty-first  century,  the  United  Nations  allows  the 
use  of  the  veto  in  situations  involving  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes  or  genocide.  Owing  to  such 
circumstances, we support a comprehensive reform that 
will reflect the current geographical realities.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  for  his  leadership  in  the  reform  process 
and for convening this debate ahead of the new cycle 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform. Allow me also to use this opportunity 
to  congratulate  warmly  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  on  her 
appointment  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  to  sincerely  thank  her  predecessor, 
Ambassador 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  for  his  able  chairmanship 
Courtenay 
the 
Rattray, 
and  professional  competence,  thanks  to  which  we 
accomplished outstanding work under his leadership.
Croatia shares the views of the majority of Member 
States  that  the  present  structure  and  functioning  of 
the  Council  do  not  properly  reflect  the  geopolitical 
realities  of  the  contemporary  world  or  the  make-up 
of  the  United  Nations  membership  in  the  twenty-first 
century. Therefore, in order to maintain the Council’s 
authority, relevance and indispensability in maintaining 
global peace and security, we cannot afford to further 
postpone its reform. 
It  has  been  said  many  times,  but  it  is  worth 
repeating, that it took only 18 years from the foundation 
of the United Nations for the General Assembly to adopt 
resolution  1991  (XVIII),  on  the  Security  Council’s 
first — and to date, last  — enlargement, in 1963. On 
1 January 2016, we shall mark the fiftieth anniversary 
of the beginning of the 15-member Council. That fact 
alone  speaks  volumes  about  our  effectiveness  and 
ability to embrace and implement reform. Furthermore, 
some  of  the  provisions  of  resolution  1991  (XVIII) 
are  as  relevant  today  as  they  were  52  years  ago,  on. 
17 December 1963, in that “the present composition of 
the  Security  Council  is  inequitable  and  unbalanced”, 
and that  it is 
“necessary  to  enlarge  the  membership  of  the 
Security Council, thus ... making it a more effective 
organ  for  carrying  out  its  functions  under  the 
Charter of the United Nations”.
With  respect  to  the  substance  of  our  debate, 
Croatia is of the view that the time has come to move 
forward.  Our  position  on  Security  Council  reform  is 
well  known.  We  support  the  Council’s  enlargement 
in  both  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership.  We  believe  that  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States should be awarded an additional seat 
in  the  non-permanent  category  of  membership  of  the 
reformed Council, since the membership of the Group 
has  more  than  doubled  in  the  past  50  years,  from  10 
to  23  countries.  We  also  advocate  greater  African 
representation in the enlarged Council.
The  working  methods  of  the  enlarged  Council 
should be such as to facilitate more efficient, effective 
and  accountable  functioning.  Croatia  supports  more 
frequent  interaction  by  the  members  of  the  Council 
with  wider  United  Nations  membership, 
through 
greater transparency, openness in decision-making and 
inclusiveness.  On  the  question  of  the  use  of  the  veto, 
14/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
Croatia welcomes the initiatives on restraining the use 
of the veto in situations of war crimes, mass atrocities 
and genocide. Regarding the inter-institutional relations 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council, Croatia would like to see regular consultations 
taking place between the Presidents of these two pivotal 
bodies.
We fully understand that the widest support possible 
of  Member  States  is  essential  for  such  a  momentous 
reform  as  that  of  Security  Council  enlargement. 
Nevertheless,  our  continuous  efforts  to  broaden  that 
support should not mean that consensus, no matter how 
desirable it is in all United Nations reform processes, 
is a necessary precondition for further advancement in 
Security Council reform. Therefore, we should follow 
the  practice  that,  when  consensus  is  apparently  not 
possible, the position of a convincing majority should 
be used as a way forward. 
We  extend  our  full  support  to  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  new  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations. We are confident that 
under their able leadership, that process will bring us 
closer to our common goal of a reformed and improved 
Security Council.
Mr. Oh Joon (Republic of Korea): My delegation 
would like to welcome the appointment of Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, 
as the new Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
We  have  every  confidence  in  her  ability  to  facilitate 
that difficult process with the high degree of fairness 
and transparency that she has displayed in many other 
of her United Nations functions.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the Permanent Representative of Italy on behalf of 
the Uniting for Consensus group (see A/70/PV.43).
For its part, the Republic of Korea has consistently 
called  for  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  as  an 
important  and  urgent  matter.  The  Council  must  be 
reformed in a way that will allow it to better address the 
international peace and security challenges of today. We 
believe that such reform cannot be accomplished until 
we do away with the outdated concepts of permanency 
and veto. To put it simply, in this fast-changing world, 
nothing  should  be  unchangeable.  What  we  need  is 
a  modern,  democratic  and  flexible  mechanism,  a 
mechanism  that  can  reflect  dynamic  international 
realities in a timely manner.
Increasing  non-permanent  seats  through  periodic 
elections  is  the  only  logical  solution  to  achieve  that 
goal.  Expanding  the  number  of  elected  members  will 
bring a better balance to the membership of the Security 
Council,  thereby  improving  its  work.  Permanency 
does not allow the Council to adapt to changes in the 
world and to effectively address global challenges. In 
that  regard,  we  support  the  French-Mexican  political 
statement  on  the  suspension  of  the  use  of  the  veto 
in  cases  of  mass  atrocities  and  the  code  of  conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes.
At the same time, we do recognize the aspirations 
of  some  Member  States  to  make  a  more  prominent 
contribution to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  To  accommodate  such  aspirations,  we 
support the creation of longer-term, re-electable seats 
to  allow  those  Member  States  to  sit  on  the  Council 
longer and more often. But of course, their continued 
dedication and performance should be ensured through 
periodic elections.
With  regard  to  the  way  forward,  an  important 
lesson  that  should  be  drawn  from  previous  rounds  of 
negotiations is that any reform formula must receive the 
wide support of Member States. We need to strive for 
consensus, as stipulated in Assembly decision 62/557, 
to address this critical matter. We also need to engage 
on the broader issue of improving the effectiveness and 
credibility of the Security Council.
My delegation stands ready to work with others to 
formulate  an  innovative  and  pragmatic  solution  that 
can garner the support and understanding of the entire 
membership.
Mrs.  Martinic  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow me at the outset to express our gratitude for the 
convening of this meeting. 
Argentina aligns itself with the statement made by 
the representative of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for 
Consensus group (see A/70/PV.43).
I wish to take this opportunity to thank Ambassador 
Courtenay Rattray, facilitator of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  previous  session.  We  do  not 
doubt his good intentions in taking a heterodox approach 
to carrying out our work. We congratulate Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas on her appointment as facilitator for the 
current session. She can count on the full cooperation 
15-34312
15/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
of my delegation in working constructively on the issue 
before us.
As we have done throughout this process, today we 
are  once  again  tackling  our  work  in  awareness  of  the 
need for a spirit of flexibility and agreement and a strong 
multilateral approach, as that is the only guarantee of 
success. Argentina trusts that all delegations will do the 
same, because it is only through a multilateral approach 
that is based on concrete actions and leadership, taking 
into  account  the  interests  of  all  nations,  that  we  will 
be  able  to  achieve  a  Security  Council  that  is  more 
democratic,  truly  inclusive  and  efficient,  and  one 
that  can  properly  discharge  the  heavy  responsibilities 
conferred on it by the Charter.
It is clear that as a democratic institution, the United 
Nations  constantly  faces  the  need  to  build  legitimacy 
and  representativity  in  its  organs.  This  task  falls  to 
the Member States and thus cannot and should not be 
delegated.  Therefore  it  is  only  in  the  framework  of 
intergovernmental negotiations undertaken by Member 
States  in  good  faith,  on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect 
and  in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent  manner,  as 
established  by  the  General  Assembly  in  resolutions 
48/26  and  53/30  and  decision  62/557,  that  we  will 
be  able  to  find  a  solution  that  will  find  the  broadest 
possible political acceptance.
to  devise 
Based on the lessons learned during this negotiating 
process,  Argentina  continues,  in  a  spirit  of  great 
willingness, 
innovative  and  consistent 
formulas that will ensure a more democratic presence, 
a  more  effective  rotation  process  for  non-permanent 
members and a reformulation of its working methods, 
so that the Council can truly become more transparent, 
interactive and inclusive. 
The Charter stipulates in Article 24 that:
“In order to ensure prompt and effective action 
by the United Nations, its Members confer on the 
Security  Council  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
and agree that in carrying out its duties under this 
responsibility  the  Security  Council  acts  on  their 
behalf.”
The  victors  in  the  Second  World  War  arrogated  this 
responsibility  to  themselves  on  a  permanent  basis. 
However,  all  States  that  recognize  that  peace  is  an 
essential element for their development wish to actively 
undertake out this responsibility.
Argentina  is  in  favour  of  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  non-permanent  members  only,  because 
perpetuity is intrinsically antagonistic to the notion of 
representativity  in  a  democratic  context,  where  such 
representativity must periodically be legitimized by the 
will of those represented.
It  is  well  known  that  elections  form  the  basis  of 
all  legitimate  democratic  and  representative  systems. 
The improvement of the working methods has been and 
remains of the greatest importance to Argentina.  When 
we  held  the  chairmanship  of  the  Security  Council’s 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions,  we  took  every  opportunity  to 
promote transparency and openness in the work of that 
Group, as well as its accountability for its actions to the 
Organization as a whole.
To  conclude,  Argentina  reiterates  its  intention 
to  consider  with  an  open  mind  all  proposals  that, 
respecting  the  principles  agreed  upon  by  the  General 
Assembly,  bring  together  the  positions  in  order  to 
make concrete the necessary democratic reform of the 
Security Council.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Venezuela  deeply 
appreciates  the  efforts  by  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica  and 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations on reform 
of the Security Council during the sixty-ninth session of 
the General Assembly. We welcome Ambassador Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
the new Chair and wish her every success.
After more than two decades of debate on reform 
of the Security Council, the United Nations could see 
its credibility affected if the prolonged standstill in the 
negotiating  process  continues.  My  country  believes 
that it is time to move to a substantive process based 
on a draft negotiating text in order to achieve tangible 
results. We believe that expansion of the membership of 
the Security Council, the reform of its working methods 
and  the  review  of  the  decision-making  mechanism, 
including the issue of the veto, should lead to a more 
democratic,  representative,  transparent  and  effective 
Council.
With  regard  to  the  composition  of  the  Council, 
we  are  in  favour  of  its  expansion.  We  are  convinced 
that  the  process  of  reform  must  ensure  the  inclusion 
of developing countries in the regions of Africa, Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  Asia.  An  expanded 
16/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
Security Council should include different geographical, 
political  and  cultural  realities,  mainly  those  of  the 
developing  world,  taking  into  account  the  need  to 
correct the power asymmetry in that body and adapt it to 
the multipolar world that is emerging, making it a more 
democratic  and  representative  organ.  The  developing 
countries  have  a  right  to  longer-term  participation  in 
the Security Council, as well as to the re-election of its 
non-permanent members, using the experience of other 
organs of the United Nations systemas a basis.
In  this  context,  we  must  address  the  legitimate 
aspirations of the African continent, which is composed 
of 54 countries, in order to rectify the historical injustice 
with respect to its representation on the Council. African 
countries make up more than a quarter of the Members 
of the Organization, and thef  conflict situations under 
consideration  by  the  Council  that  affect  the  continent 
comprise more than two thirds of the Council’s agenda.
With  respect  to  working  methods,  our  delegation 
would  like  to  express  its  deepest  concern  at  the 
perpetual  provisional  status  of  the  Security  Council’s 
rules of procedure. It is unacceptable that, 70 years after 
its founding, it does not have a definitive set of rules. It 
is clear that the purpose of the arrangement has been to 
favour a small group of permanent members that, under 
the  guise  of  a  supposedly  rules-based  practice,  does, 
or does not do, as it wishes. My delegation condemns 
the  practice  whereby  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council often hold negotiations behind closed 
doors,  thus  excluding  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Council  from  its  decision-making  process.  Similarly, 
disproportionate power is enjoyed by a few permanent 
members, the so-called penholders, which gives them a 
monopoly on the scope and wording of the resolutions.
The sanctions committees should have no other aim 
than  to  contribute  to  the  paramount  goal  of  reaching 
political  solutions 
in 
practice, some permanent members perceive sanctions 
regimes as ends in themselves and under that premise 
seek  to  keep  expanding  their  mandates  and  scope 
into new areas in an undefined manner, without even 
consulting, listening to or taking into account the views 
of  the  countries  affected,  thereby  undermining  any 
purpose or policy objective that the sanctions may have 
had when they were first conceived.
to  conflicts.  Unfortunately, 
Venezuela calls for a substantial increase in open 
meetings.  Closed  meetings,  including  consultations, 
must  be  an  exception  to  the  requirement  of  public 
meetings, as set out in rule 48 of the Council’s provisional 
rules  of  procedure.  We  cannot  allow  the  continuation 
of the practice of holding meetings for which there is 
no  record,  no  verbatim  report,  no  minutes.  Nor  can 
we  continue  to  allow  the  exclusion  of  the  countries 
affected  and  the  relevant  regional  organizations  from 
participating  in  discussions  on  the  agenda  items  that 
affect them, which happened last April when the Council 
refused  to  let  the  High  Representative  of  the  African 
Union  participate  in  the  briefing  on  the  question  of 
Western Sahara, or last May when the African Union’s 
Permanent Observer was excluded from the briefing on 
the  situation  of  migrants  in  the  Mediterranean.  Open 
meetings of the Council help to promote transparency 
and  inclusiveness  and  give  the  entire  United  Nations 
membership  the  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the 
Council’s work. It is mainly through such meetings that 
the  Council  obtains  information  about  the  position  of 
countries on the items on its agenda.
With  respect  to  the  Security  Council’s  decision-
making  mechanisms,  Venezuela  believes  that  the 
issue  of  the  veto  should  be  the  subject  of  a  thorough 
discussion. In the case of such topics or issues as the 
election  of  the  Secretary-General  or  the  admission  of 
new  Member  States,  where  the  General  Assembly  is 
also an important participant, the permanent members 
should  refrain  from  using  the  veto.  Unfortunately,  in 
this regard, the Council’s Committee on the Admission 
of  New  Members  has  been  unable  to  give  a  positive 
recommendation  for  the  admission  of  the  State  of 
Palestine as a full Member of the Organization, owing 
to the denial of one of its permanent members.
Venezuela  rejects  the  continued  efforts  of  the 
Security Council to use the thematic debates as a way 
to expand its mandate into areas that do not represent 
a threat to international peace and security. The role of 
the Assembly as the main forum for the discussion and 
formulation of United Nations policies and legislation 
must be respected in terms of both spirit and purpose. 
We wish to reaffirm the need for the Security Council 
report to the General Assembly to be more explanatory 
and analytical in describing its work.
To  conclude,  we  must  emphasize  that  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  represents  just  one  element 
of  a  necessary,  broader  and  more  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  United  Nations,  which  includes,  among 
other  organs,  the  Secretariat.  In  this  connection,  we 
emphasize the need for appointments to high posts in 
the  Organization  to  be  handled  fairly  and  equitably 
15-34312
17/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
in  terms  of  geographical  distribution,  so  that  all 
countries,  particularly  those  in  the  developing  world, 
have  appropriate  opportunities  to  participate  in  the 
organs that prepare the reports and documents that are 
submitted to the Security Council for consideration.
fruitfully  conducting 
Mr. Dehghani (Islamic Republic of Iran): I thank 
the President for convening this debate. We believe that 
making  the  necessary  arrangements  for  a  successful 
debate  and 
the  upcoming 
negotiations  on  the  sensitive  and  important  issue  of 
Security Council reform require extensive consultations 
with all Member States. We welcome and congratulate 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg  as  the  new 
Chair of intergovernmental negotiations and assure her 
of our support.
With  its  current,  extremely  outdated  composition 
and  working  methods,  the  Security  Council  has  been 
unable to fulfil its crucial responsibility of maintaining 
international peace and security. The entire membership 
supports  the  goal  of  having  a  more  representative, 
effective,  democratic,  accountable  and  transparent 
Council. The question is how do we reach that goal.
At 
the  sixty-second  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  the  United  Nations  membership  embarked 
on  the  process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
pursuant  to  decision  62/557.  The  decision  directs  the 
Assembly to achieve holistic reform on five key issues: 
categories  of  membership,  the  veto,  size  and  working 
methods, regional representation, and the relationship 
between 
the  General 
Assembly  and  other  important  bodies.  The  Council’s 
expansion is one of the elements of the overall reform 
but must not diminish the importance of the other four 
elements; all five are linked. We believe that no Council 
reform  can  succeed  unless  all  five  interrelated  issues 
are  appropriately,  comprehensively  and  inclusively 
addressed.
the  Security  Council  and 
There  have  been  many  initiatives  to  change  the 
composition  or  improve  the  working  methods  or 
decision-making  processes  of  the  Council.  But  so  far 
all  of  them  have  failed,  and  nothing  significant  has 
been done to restore trust in this important organ. We 
believe  that  any  attempt  at  genuine  Security  Council 
reform should be based on a general agreement among 
all  Member  States  on  the  substance  and  process,  and 
that this is the most important prerequisite for restoring 
lost trust. If such an agreement is to emerge, we need 
genuine political will.
Despite the lack of progress on the main issues, we 
still believe that the process of Security Council reform 
should not be subject to any predetermined or arbitrary 
timetable. Any ill-considered or careless decision would 
run  the  risk  of  harming  that  very  delicate  process, 
which  is  of  vital  importance  and  great  interest  to  the 
whole  membership  of  the  Organization  and  will  have 
far-reaching impacts for the whole world. We therefore 
believe  that  every  effort  must  be  made  to  reach  the 
broadest possible agreement among Member States.
While  text-based  negotiations  are  certainly  an 
efficient way of proceeding, we need to agree on a text. 
I wish to reiterate that Iran considers intergovernmental 
negotiations to be the only appropriate and irreplaceable 
format.  The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  must 
continue  to  be  Member-State-driven  and  to  function 
in a fully comprehensive and transparent manner. My 
delegation welcomes the continued efforts in that regard 
and is willing to actively participate in the process.
Ms.  Chan  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ms.  Sylvie 
Lucas, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, as the 
new facilitator for the intergovernmental negotiations. 
We also express our deep appreciation to Ambassador 
Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica for the work he has done.
We reiterate our commitment to continuing to work 
wholeheartedly  in  this  process,  which  must  accord 
with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Organization 
and which, above all, must strengthen multilateralism. 
For  that  reason,  Costa  Rica  shares  the  concerns  and 
suggestions  set  out  by  the  representative  of  Italy  on 
behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/70/
PV.43). 
In  all  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  rounds, 
Costa Rica has explained why it is firmly opposed to the 
creation of new permanent seats and to any expansion of  
the veto or any other privilege in the Security Council.
For  Costa  Rica,  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
cannot  be  effective,  legitimate  or  democratic  if  it 
consists simply of expanding the privileges that some 
enjoy and adding permanent seats for others. My country 
has explained why it believes that a gradual expansion 
of  the  non-permanent  seats,  with  the  possibility  that 
some representatives might remain for more than two 
consecutive terms, is the only way for us to have a more 
legitimate  and  representative  body,  where  the  voices 
and innovative ideas of Africa, Asia, Latin America and 
the Caribbean can be heard. Their readiness to play a 
18/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
more active role in the issues currently on the Council’s 
programme  of  work  will  at  the  same  time  help  to 
guarantee improvement of the Council’s accountability. 
That enhanced geographic representativity would also 
make possible to substantially increase the possibility 
of election to the Council, benefitting in particular the 
small countries that are the majority of the Organization.
It is a question of expanding the real possibilities 
of the entire membership, not of limiting them further. 
It is a question of consolidating the United Nations at 
the epicentre of global governance and of ensuring that 
the Security Council complies with its responsibilities 
in the maintenance of international peace and security, 
taking  into  account  considerations  of  human  rights 
and  improving  its  work  in  conflict  prevention.  Those 
real  possibilities  would  also  result  in  a  profound 
improvement in the working methods, which would not 
only facilitate the internal work of the Security Council 
but  would  also  strengthen  the  relationships  between 
the  Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Economic and Social Council.
We are well aware that an enlarged Council would 
require clearer, more predictable, more systematic and 
more  transparent  procedures.  In  that  regard,  Costa 
Rica  has  expressed  its  support  for  the  suggestion 
of  France  aimed  at  restricting  the  use  of  the  veto  in 
cases  of  mass  atrocities,  support  that  dates  from  our 
participation in the Small Five group and in the efforts 
led by Liechtenstein in the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group in favour of a code of conduct 
that would ban the use of the veto in cases of genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  We  need  to 
act  decisively  in  such  situations.  We  cannot  continue 
to allow the opinion of a single permanent member to 
carry more weight than the need to save lives. The veto 
betrays  the  trust  that  millions  of  people  place  in  the 
United Nations as their ultimate hope.
The  work  of  the  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council in recent years has been noteworthy. 
They  have  been  innovative,  exploratory,  proactive 
and  independent.  They  have  also  demonstrated  that 
they  are  able,  as  non-permanent  members,  to  make 
substantive  contributions  to  the  work  of  this  body. 
Their status as non-permanent members has in no way 
prevented them from making important proposals and 
suggesting solutions. For that reason, we should abide 
by  the  provisions  of  decision  62/557  and  negotiate  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
addresses  the  five  primary  themes  and  builds  on  the 
proposals of each and every Member State in good faith, 
in  an  open,  transparent  spirit  and  without  artificial 
deadlines, so that we can achieve the broadest possible 
political agreement. We share a common goal: to obtain 
a reform of the Security Council for all, not just a few.
Costa Rica reiterates its full readiness to participate 
in  any  consultations  that  the  presidency  considers 
necessary  and  to  contribute  in  a  constructive  and 
forward-looking spirit to designing a process that will 
allow us to move ahead in this defining moment for our 
Organization.
Mr. Jinga (Romania): Let me start by expressing 
our  deep  appreciation  to  the  President  for  his  letter 
of  23  October, 
informing  Member  States  about 
the  concrete  modalities  for  implementing  the  core 
provision  of  decision  69/560,  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  on  14  September,  to  immediately  continue 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.  We  support  that  approach,  which  is  aimed  at 
sustainably  building  on  the  accomplishments  of  the 
11  rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  in 
particular on the positions and proposals advanced by 
Member  States,  as  reflected  in  the  text  and  its  annex 
circulated  by  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly in his letter of 31 July.
Romania  was  one  of  the  countries  that  called 
for  text-based  negotiations.  Allow  me,  therefore,  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  convey  our  sincere  gratitude 
to  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica, for his dedicated, transparent 
and  accountable  work  during  the  previous  Assembly 
session.  It  is  now  up  to  Member  States  to  make  full 
use  of  the  highly  structured  document  he  provided, 
which was based on the inputs from a large number of 
countries, including my own.
At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Luxembourg,  for  assusming  the  very  challenging 
mandate of chairing the negotiation process to resolve 
the question of equitable representation on the Security 
Council,  an  increase  in  its  membership  and  other 
related  matters.  We  are  convinced  that,  in  addition 
to  her  well-known  personal  and  diplomatic  qualities, 
Ambassador Lucas will advance our work by drawing 
on  the  experience  accumulated  during  Luxembourg’s 
recent term on the Security Council. I wish to assure 
her of my delegation’s full availability to work towards 
fruitful and timely concrete results.
15-34312
19/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
I believe that the matter of concrete results should 
be part of the review and adaptation process of United 
Nations bodies so that the entire system becomes truly 
fit for purpose and committed to action, in accordance 
with the recently adopted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
There  is  another  point  to  be  made  with  respect 
to the results of our work under this agenda item. Let 
me  recall  that,  in  its  statement  of  8  November  2013, 
Romania  said  it  was  of  the  view  that  we  should  be 
“realistically  ambitious”  (A/68/PV.48,  p.  21).  That  is 
why, in our view, the five key issues under consideration 
should  be  approached  independently,  each  at  its  own 
pace. We are well aware that others believe that all five 
aspects are interrelated and should be viewed as a single 
package. But in the absence of substantial progress in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process,  we  need 
to recognize that pressing topics have emerged outside 
that process and have evolved significantly. I refer here 
in  particular  to  the  two  complementary  initiatives  on 
the use of the veto.
I  am  pleased  to  underline  that,  in  his  address  in 
the  general  debate  at  the  Assembly’s  current  session 
(see A/70/PV.16), His Excellency Mr. Klaus Iohannis, 
President  of  Romania,  reiterated  our  support  for  the 
initiative of France and Mexico regarding a collective, 
voluntary agreement among the permanent members of 
the Security Council on the non-use of the veto when 
action is needed to prevent or bring to an end situations 
of  mass  atrocities  and  large-scale  war  crimes.  At  the 
same  time,  Romania  is  one  of  the  106  countries  that 
have fully endorsed the draft code of conduct regarding 
Security  Council  action  with  respect  to  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  or  war  crimes,  submitted 
on  23  October  by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency  group,  which  is  so  competently  led  by 
Mr.  Christian  Wenaweser,  Permanent  Representative 
of Liechtenstein.
The  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council 
represent an area in which progress has been achieved, 
but there is still room for improvement. That assertion 
was  confirmed  during  the  Spanish  presidency  of  the 
Council. In fact, we would like to congratulate Spain 
on  its  excellent  organization  of  the  Council’s  work 
during  the  current  month,  especially  in  terms  of  the 
innovative  practice  of  delivering  common  statements 
or  presenting  briefings  by  grouping  several  countries 
together. The number and quality of the open debates 
demonstrated  that  the  Security  Council  can  indeed 
function effectively.
I would like to conclude by saying that progress is 
within our reach, and that we have the duty to advance 
Security Council reform, including with respect to its 
membership,  so  that  it  reflects  the  new  geopolitical 
realities.  Romania  stands  firmly  for  the  increased 
representation of the Group of Eastern European States 
and believes that at least one additional non-permanent 
seat  should  be  allocated  to  that  Group  in  the  future 
architecture of the Security Council.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me  at  the  outset  to  extend  my  wholehearted  thanks 
to  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  representative  of 
Jamaica,  for  his  efforts  during  his  leadership  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  expansion  and 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  I  would  also  like  to 
congratulate Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, representative 
of Luxembourg, on her appointment as the new facilitator 
of the negotiations. We hope that real progress will be 
achieved in the negotiations and that we will be able to 
reach some sort of consensus. 
Libya  reaffirms  its  support  for  and  aligns  itself 
with the statements made by the representative of Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the Group of African States and by 
the representative of Kuwait on behalf of the Group of 
Arab States (see A/70/PV.43).
As  an  African  country,  Libya  affirms  that  one 
of  the  most  important  elements  of  Security  Council 
reform is to rectify the historical injustice suffered by 
the African continent, which has not been represented 
as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Council.  We  reiterate 
the  need  to  recognize  that  right  as  an  inalienable, 
non-negotiable right, especially inasmuch as more than 
two thirds of the situations brought before the Council 
concern  the  African  continent.  Such  an  injustice  can 
be eliminated only by giving the African continent two 
permanent seats on the Council, with all the prerogatives 
of the current permanent members, including the veto. 
Furthermore, the African continent should be granted 
two additional non-permanent seats, as stipulated in the 
Common African Position, the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  Libya  further  affirms  that  any 
expansion of the membership of the Security Council 
should include the Arab countries. They should also be 
accorded a permanent seat on the Council, based on the 
resolution adopted at the Arab Summit in Sirte in 2010.
20/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
Reform of the Security Council should not stop at 
increasing  the  number  of  seats  in  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories,  but  should  also  extend  to 
its  working  methods  and  its  relationship  with  other 
United Nations bodies. In that regard, Libya reiterates 
the need to introduce reforms in the working methods 
of the Council to ensure transparency and openness in 
its work as well as in its activities and procedures. The 
meetings of the Security Council should be public, and 
closed  or  in  camera  consultations  should  be  limited 
as  soon  as  possible.  Moreover,  using  the  right  to  the 
veto should be limited in cases of war crimes, crimes 
against humanity and foreign occupation, as a first step 
towards the total abolition of the veto.
Libya  also  calls  for  enhancing  the  participation 
of  non-member  States  in  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council,  in  particular  by  countries  directly  affected 
by  the  situations  currently  under  its  consideration. 
We  also  reiterate  that  it  is  crucial  for  the  Council  to 
have  established  procedures  and  rules  that  govern  its 
relationship  with  other  United  Nations  bodies.  That 
matter  requires  review  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
Security Council does not encroach on the competence 
of  other  bodies,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly, 
and  to  facilitate  consultations  between  the  Council 
and other key United Nations bodies. In the meantime, 
the  mandate  assigned  to  each  body  by  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  should  be  duly  respected.  In  that 
regard, we reaffirm the need for consultative meetings 
between  key  bodies  and  for  more  public  debates  and 
briefings,  as  well  as  more  frequent  periodic  reports 
by the Council to the Assembly. Those reports should 
be  inclusive,  transparent  and  duly  supported  by  fact, 
evidence and analysis.
In conclusion, I reiterate Libya’s willingness to be 
positively and effectively involved in all efforts to reach 
a consensus that would eventually reform the Security 
Council  and  enable  our  international  Organization  to 
be more democratic and transparent.
Mr.  Bogaert  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
thank  the  President  for  organizing  this  debate  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matter matters related to the Security Council. We must 
follow up on our decision 69/560 of 14 September and 
maintain the momentum of the debate that took place in 
the intergovernmental negotiations this year. I take this 
opportunity  to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray 
for his commitment to his work as Chair of that group 
and  for  the  significant  progress  that  he  was  able  to 
achieve.
Belgium welcomes the appointment of the Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxemburg,  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas, as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform.  We  assure  Ambassador 
Lucas of our full support and cooperation.
Our positions are well reflected in the text attached 
to the letter from the President of the General Assembly, 
dated 31 July, which should serve as the basis for our 
follow-up  work.  Our  challenge  today  lies  in  debating 
the  elements  of  the  text  in  an  open  and  constructive 
spirit so that we can further develop practical options 
and  reach  a  compromise.  We  are  ready  to  participate 
in  consultations  in  various  formats,  as  needed,  under 
the  authority  of  the  President  and  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Our  work  must  be 
focused  more  on  substance  than  on  questions  of 
procedure.
Mr.  Zaayman  (South  Africa):  First  of  all,  South 
Africa  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray for his robust chairing of the intergovernmental 
negotiations in the previous session, and we join others 
in  congratulating  the  new  Chair  of  the  negotiating 
process,  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative of Luxembourg.
We align ourselves with the statement delivered by 
the Ambassador of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group 
of African States, as well as the statement made by the 
Ambassador of Saint Lucia on behalf of the L.69 group 
(see A/70/PV.43).
Since  2013,  South  Africa’s  President,  Mr.  Jacob 
Zuma, has called for the United Nations not to celebrate 
its seventieth anniversary without a reformed Security 
Council. South Africa has been joined in this call by a 
vast majority of the States Members of the Organization. 
Yet, here we are at the seventieth session, having just 
last week celebrated the seventieth anniversary of the 
entry into force of the Charter, and we cannot record 
any  substantive  movement  on  a  matter  that  the  vast 
majority  of  the  United  Nations  membership  views  as 
urgent and critical.
Over  the  past  few  years  in  which  we  have  been 
engaged in discussions, it has become clear that nearly 
all Member States, including the permanent members 
of the Security Council, agree to some extent that the 
Council must be reformed. In fact, 10 years ago we, as 
15-34312
21/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
Member States, took a unanimous decision at the level 
of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  that  the  Security 
Council needed urgent reform, and yet we cannot report 
a single substantive achievement.
South Africa is of the view that the main obstacle to 
achieving any movement in our ceaseless discussions is 
that the process itself is flawed. In spite of their name, 
the intergovernmental negotiations are not negotiations 
but  rather  debates  comprising  endless  repetition  of 
decades-old positions from groupings and States. That 
is why South Africa and so many other Member States 
have  called  for  the  start  of  text-based  negotiations. 
We  are  therefore  especially  pleased  that  Ambassador 
Rattray’s efforts have finally resulted in the Assembly 
adopting decision 69/560, endorsing the Chair’s text that 
was circulated on 31 July as the framework document 
for text-based negotiations, which we expect to start in 
earnest before the end of the year.
In his statement in the general debate in September 
(see  A/70/PV.14),  President  Zuma  urged  us  to  focus 
our  efforts  this  year  on  developing  a  road  map  for 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  and  that  the  road 
map  must  be  accompanied  with  clear,  implementable 
time  frames.  South  Africa  therefore  proposes  that 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  adopt  a  different 
format this year to replace the debate format that has 
become our routine, and that they vigorously engage on 
the framework document.
We believe that the process will benefit from block 
meetings. We therefore propose that the Chair schedule 
a  few  consecutive  days  per  element  to  allow  for 
interactive exchange and negotiations among Member 
States. In the past few years, we have seen that one-day 
meetings  result  only  in  general  statements,  repeated 
ad  nauseam,  thereby  threatening  to  make  the  process 
an endless working group on no reform. South Africa 
does not believe that adopting such a practical process 
would  undermine  the  principles  of  all-inclusivity  and 
transparency to which we are fully committed. However, 
we should also guard against illogical attempts to delay 
the process through fear-mongering by those Member 
States that falsely argue that text-based negotiations are 
exclusive and not transparent.
My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support 
for  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
newly  appointed  Chair.  We  will  continue  our  active 
engagement  with  all  Member  States  to  find  areas 
of  agreement  and  to  operationalize  the  call  from  our 
President.  We  are  committed  to  seeing  the  historic 
injustice  against  developing  countries,  as  reflected  in 
the composition and working of the Security Council, 
corrected.  South  Africa  believes  that  the  world  needs 
a strong and effective Security Council. We believe in 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations that 
envision a world at peace. However, we are concerned 
that the inherent flaws in the structure and functioning 
of the Security Council have debilitated it. That is why 
we remain fully committed to seeing the expansion and 
reform of the Security Council within our lifetime.
In conclusion, South Africa wishes to propose the 
following  recommendations  for  consideration  by  the 
new Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, with 
the aim of guiding text-based negotiations.
for  Sustainable  Development 
First, a schedule of meetings per element, outlining 
the negotiating process for the present session, should 
be circulated as soon as possible. That is normal United 
Nations  practice  when  embarking  on  a  negotiating 
process,  as  we  saw  last  year  with  the  schedule  that 
guided  the  negotiations  for  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1). Secondly, the schedule should make it clear that 
interactive  negotiations  will  be  the  working  method 
used  to  move  the  process  forward,  and  that  such 
negotiations  should  be  steered  away  from  the  debate 
format. Thirdly, the negotiations should be focused on 
adopting a road map with time frames that will guide 
the  process  beyond  the  seventieth  session.  Fourthly, 
the  Chair  should  explore  informal  bilateral  meetings 
between divergent groupings to promote the formation 
of consensus.
None  of  these  proposals  is  new  or  innovative  for 
the United Nations; in fact, we propose them in order 
to  bring  our  discussions  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  in  line  with  the  manner  in  which  the 
United Nations works to reach agreement on all issues 
on its agenda.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  important  meeting  on  the  issues  of 
equitable  representation  on  the  Security  Council  and 
increasing the number of its members.
We  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  on 
her  appointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  are  confident  that  her  presidency 
will  maintain  the  negotiating  group’s  momentum  and 
impetus. We are also grateful to Ambassador Courtenay 
22/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
Rattray for his leadership as Chair of the negotiations 
during the Assembly’s sixty-ninth session.
Nicaragua aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by  Ambassador  Menissa  Rambally,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf  of  the 
L.69 group (see A/70/PV.43).
We  hope  that  this  discussion  will  get  to  the 
true  centre  of  our  debate,  which  is  how  to  achieve 
thorough  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  particularly 
as  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  are  now  193  Member  States;  the 
Organization  of  which  we  are  a  part,  particularly 
the  Security  Council,  is  functioning  in  a  completely 
different  world,  and  it  must  change.  The  Security 
Council urgently needs comprehensive reform so that it 
can respond to the realities of the twenty-first century 
and  expand  both  membership  categories,  permanent 
and non-permanent. 
We  live  on  a  planet  whose  population  has  grown 
and  that  is  threatened  by  multiple  highly  complex 
challenges.  Our  Organization  should  respond  to  the 
challenges of our times with measures and actions that 
reflect its highest priority, our peoples’ interests.
After the many years devoted to these negotiations, 
on  31  July  we  arrived  at  a  consensus  agreement  on 
a  text  and  should  therefore  proceed  immediately  to 
negotiations,  for  which  we  are  ready.  It  is  time  for 
concrete results. It is essential that we set a timetable 
for our meetings until we reach a final negotiated text 
and  complete  this  stage  of  the  reforms.  If  for  some 
unfortunate reason the process ends in a stalemate and 
we fail to arrive at a final text, there are other options 
that we can resort to. We hope that will not be the case.
Nicaragua  is  committed  to  any  initiative  that  can 
enable  us  to  recreate,  reinvent  and  re-establish  the 
United  Nations,  meeting  the  growing  demand  for  a 
democratic Organization that will serve in the highest 
interest of soveregin security, justice, and peace in the 
world. Nicaragua will continue to support all efforts to 
reform the Security Council, and we are always ready 
for constructive discussion of any subject that can help 
to improve the work of our Organization. We reiterate 
the  Nicaraguan  people’s  hope  that  in  this  seventieth 
anniversary  year  our  commitment  will  result  in  a 
serious and open process of reflection on the essential 
transformation, reinvention and democratization of the 
United Nations.
Ms.  Naeem  (Maldives):  It  is  an  honour  for  the 
Republic  of  Maldives  to  take  part  in  the  Assembly’s 
debate  on  this  important  agenda  item.  We  take  this 
opportunity to thank Mr. Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica 
for  his  able  stewardship  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. My delegation 
also  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as  the 
new Chair of the intergovernmental process.
Seventy  years  ago,  50  countries  embarked  on  a 
journey  with  a  promise  to  change  the  world  for  the 
better.  The  Organization  was  born  out  of  the  ashes 
and  bloodshed  of  a  global  war,  bringing  hope  and 
reassurance  for  the  possibility  of  achieving  progress 
and  prosperity  as  well  as  creating  a  safe  and  secure 
world.  The  task  of  fulfilling  that  solemn  promise  to 
maintain international peace and security was assigned 
primarily to the Security Council. 
For  the  better  part  of  the  70  years  of  the  United 
Nations we have dwelled on the issue of reforming the 
Council. We have spent hours, days, months and years 
deliberating  on  a  possible  outcome,  one  that  could 
enable the Council to better execute its functions and 
use its powers as enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations, and in the spirit of the principle that this organ 
is all-inclusive and encompasses the global community. 
While there is general consensus on the need for reform, 
my  delegation  remains  deeply  concerned  about  the 
General  Assembly’s  persistent  inability  to  ignite  this 
conversation so that it results in a tangible outcome.
Time and again, we have come before the Assembly 
calling  for  equitable  representation  on  the  Security 
Council  and  an  increase  in  its  membership.  We  have 
deliberated  on  the  answers  to  these  questions  far  too 
long,  and  it  is  high  time  that  we  moved  forward  and 
came  to  grips  with  the  difficult  choices  to  be  made. 
As a small State committed to strict adherence to the 
rule of law, nationally and internationally, the Maldives 
has  always  maintained  that  the  Council’s  credibility 
and  legitimacy  must  be  ensured  through  broader  and 
more  equitable  representation  of  Member  States  in 
its  composition.  As  it  is  now,  the  Security  Council 
membership  reflects  a  flawed  representation  of  the 
world in which its smaller members are left behind.
We,  the  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS), 
have  shown  ourselves  to  be  integral  members  of 
the  international  community,  taking  on  important 
responsibilities in promoting peace and security on the 
15-34312
23/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
international  stage.  As  a  group,  we  currently  provide 
peacekeepers to missions around the world in numbers 
disproportionate  to  our  populations.  Yet  our  voice  on 
the Council remains vastly underrepresented. Over the 
past quarter-century, only six SIDS have served on the 
Council,  out  of  the  125  members  elected  during  that 
period. 
SIDS  continue  to  face  growing  security  concerns 
that range from transnational organized crime to piracy 
and the effects of climate change. The Maldives raised 
those  issues  at  the  Security  Council’s  Arria  Formula 
meeting on the security dimensions of climate change in 
2013 and in its open debate on the security concerns of 
small island developing States in July (see S/PV.7499).
While  we  welcome  such  initiatives  as  useful, 
productive  and  essential  to  recognition  of  the  vast 
array  of  security  concerns  that  Member  States  face, 
we  must  ensure  that  the  momentum  they  generate  is 
not lost. We must ensure that concrete steps are taken, 
including the designation of a SIDS-specific seat. An 
expanded membership must reflect the diverse nature 
of the Member States that make up the Organization. It 
is precisely because the Security Council lacks diverse 
perspectives that it is unable to meet the diverse needs 
of the international community.
A  diverse  membership  of  this  principal  organ  of 
the United Nations will be achieved only when we give 
paramount importance to the principles of equality and 
representation.  That  is  especially  true  when  it  comes 
to  Security  Council  election  campaign  finances.  In 
recent  years,  the  Assembly  has  seen  Council  seats 
reduced to trophies, bought at exorbitant costs by those 
privileged  enough  to  have  the  financial  ability  to  do 
so.  A  discussion  on  membership  should  appropriately 
address the fact that Member States do not compete on 
an equal footing, because when it comes to membership 
in  that  privileged  organ,  we  have  been  unwillingly 
relegated to a caste and class system that is in desperate 
need of overhaul.
We stand at a pivotal moment in world affairs. The 
challenges that humankind faces are grave and pressing. 
It is clear that the world today is distinctively different 
from that inhabited by our predecessors 70 years ago. 
Its problems are becoming increasingly interdependent 
and 
In 
countering the threats of the twenty-first century, the 
role of the Security Council cannot be overemphasized. 
interconnected  owing 
to  globalization. 
international  community  — 
To  achieve  the  noble  principles  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  join  the  members  of 
the 
individually  and 
collectively — it is imperative that the Council embody 
the diversity of the global community and become more 
accountable,  coherent  and  transparent.  The  Council’s  
functioning  and  working  methods  must  become  more 
efficient and genuinely represent the will and interests 
of the larger United Nations membership. The Maldives 
calls  upon  the  Council’s  members  to  ensure  the 
relevance  of  the  Security  Council  and  that  its  ability 
to tackle the world’s most pressing issues is increased.
At  the  beginning  of  the  seventieth  session,  the 
Assembly  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  It  is  an  Agenda  that 
gives  hope  for  the  hopeless,  an  Agenda  that  has  the 
potential  to  truly  transform  our  world.  Paramount  in 
the Agenda is the call that no one should be left behind. 
Throughout the past decades of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform,  there  has 
been  a  general  consensus  on  the  need  to  reform  the 
Council. Paramount in the vast majority of statements 
was  the  concern  that  the  Council  be  transformed  to 
ensure  greater  representation  and  equality  among  the 
membership. Most of all, the arguments were premised 
on the basis that everyone should be truly represented 
and that no one should be left behind.
Mrs. Nguyen (Viet Nam): I would like to express 
our gratitude to the President for having convened this 
meeting on this important agenda item.
I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session, 
leadership,  which  provided  much-needed 
for  his 
momentum  for 
the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform.  My  thanks  also  go  to  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for his 
tireless  efforts  and  valuable  contribution  to  the  work 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  wish  also  to 
welcome the appointment of Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, as the Chair 
of the intergovernmental negotiations. We fully believe 
that her experience will allow her to steer the process of 
Security Council reform to a meaningful advancement.
Viet  Nam  has  consistently  supported  efforts  to 
reform  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
effectively perform its functions as the primary organ 
for  maintaining  international  peace  and  security, 
especially 
the  unprecedented 
the  context  of 
in 
24/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
challenges of today. We are of the view that the Council 
needs to be expanded in both membership categories so 
as to ensure that it truly represents all United Nations 
Members,  as  stipulated  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  with  equitable  regional  representation  and 
adequate representation of developing countries.
At  the  same  time,  we  stress  the  need  to  further 
improve  the  Council’s  working  methods  to  ensure  its 
increased  democracy,  transparency  and  effectiveness. 
We look forward to the Council continuing the practice 
of  holding  open  debates  and  public  briefings,  as  well 
as  strengthening  the  coordination  and  collaboration 
between the Council and the General Assembly.
With  regard  to  the  way  forward,  we  believe  that 
further  substantive  negotiations  should  be  based 
on  decision  69/560  of  14  September  2015  and  on  the 
momentum  and  progress  made  during  the  sixty-ninth 
session. We would like to highlight the importance of 
the  continued  engagement  of  every  Member  State  to 
ensure that the intergovernmental negotiations continue 
to be conducted in good faith, with mutual respect and 
in an open, inclusive and transparent manner.
To conclude, I assure members of our full support 
and  readiness  to  work  closely  with  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  move  the  reform 
process forward.
Mr.  Dorji  (Bhutan):  I  thank  the  President  for 
having convened this important meeting.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made on behalf of the L.69 group by Ambassador Menissa 
Rambally,  Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Lucia 
(see A/70/PV.43).
We  are  confident  that  we  will  make  meaningful 
progress on the important subject of Security Council 
reform  under  the  President’s  able  leadership  and 
guidance.
Bhutan welcomes the appointment of Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, 
as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
have no doubt that the intergovernmental negotiations 
will  receive  renewed  impetus  and  momentum  during 
the  seventieth  session.  We  look  forward  to  working 
closely with Ambassador Lucas and assure her of our 
full support and cooperation.
I also wish to place on record our deep appreciation 
of the former President, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, 
for  his  leadership  and  commitment  to  advancing  the 
work of the intergovernmental negotiations during the 
Assembly’s sixty-ninth session. Likewise, my delegation 
would also like to commend the previous Chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations, Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for his 
steadfast commitment and for the excellent manner in 
which he steered the deliberations of the eleventh round 
of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The imperative to make the Security Council more 
representative,  transparent  and  accountable  has  been 
recognized since 1993. In 2005, our leaders called for 
the early reform of the Security Council as an essential 
element  of  our  overall  effort  to  reform  the  United 
Nations  and  to  make  it  more  broadly  representative, 
efficient  and  transparent  so  as  to  further  enhance  its 
effectiveness  and  legitimacy.  Bhutan  agrees  on  the 
need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  more 
representative, transparent and accountable, in keeping 
with contemporary realities.
The  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership and improvement in its working methods 
are  necessary  to  further  strengthen  and  enhance  the 
legitimacy and functioning of the Council. For over 20 
years, beginning with the Open-ended Working Group 
and  thereafter  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
we  have  engaged  extensively  on  all  issues  set  out  in 
decision 62/557. However, the lack of a negotiating text 
has inhibited meaningful progress.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
presents  an  opportune  occasion  to  make  concrete 
progress on a subject that has remained on our agenda 
for  over  two  decades.  We  must  build  on  the  progress 
made  during  the  sixty-ninth  session  and  make  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  results-oriented  by 
commencing  text-based  negotiations.  In  that  context, 
decision 69/560, which was adopted by consensus, is a 
noteworthy  development  and  an  important  milestone. 
It also provides a sound basis on which to advance the 
work of the intergovernmental negotiations during the 
seventieth session. We therefore look to the leadership 
of the President and the Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations to take the process forward so that concrete 
results  are  attained.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to 
engaging  constructively  with  all  delegations  in  that 
endeavour.
15-34312
25/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname): I thank the President 
for  convening  this  important  meeting  on  Security 
Council  reform,  which  is  taking  place  in  the  wake  of 
the  celebration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations last week. This is a good opportunity 
to  prepare  and  engage  in  practical,  meaningful  and 
results-oriented  negotiations.  Allow  me  to  share  the 
position of Suriname with regard to Security Council 
reform.
First,  we  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for his 
hard  work  and  dedication  throughout  the  most  recent 
round  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also 
welcome the appointment of Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, as the new 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform, and wish her success in that significant 
responsibility.
The  Republic  of  Suriname  supports  Security 
Council reform in light of the new realities and changed 
circumstances  directing  global  affairs  and  inter-State 
relations in today’s world. Suriname wishes to reiterate 
its commitment to that reform process, which must be 
inclusive, balanced and consensus-based and must take 
into account the interests of developing and developed 
States Members of the United Nations alike in order to 
further promote, preserve and strengthen international 
peace and security.
Suriname is of the view that, while decision 69/560 is 
a base document, it cannot and should not be considered 
to be an exclusive guide to the negotiating process. The 
negotiating  process  must  remain  open  to  additional 
perspectives  and  not  be  constrained  by  unrealistic 
timelines  for  completing 
its  work.  Consequently, 
we  also  welcome  the  Council’s  organization  of  open 
debates on this subject and engagement in informative 
discussions that allow the parties involved to be heard 
and  to  contribute.  To  achieve  a  more  accountable, 
representative  and 
transparent  Security  Council, 
contemporary regional and international realities must 
be reflected in any new structure that we may establish.
Seventy  years  after  the  original  composition  and 
structure  of  the  Security  Council  were  established,  it 
is  obvious  that  improving  its  representation  and  the 
working methods is not only necessary is but essential 
to the existence of the Organization and to the belief and 
trust  that  the  world  community —  made  up  of  States 
large  and  small,  developed  and  developing  States, 
coastal,  island  and  landlocked  States,  States  from  the 
North and the South — has placed in our Organization. 
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the  Republic  of  Suriname  will 
participate in the new round of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): My 
delegation welcomes the convening of this meeting. If 
anything has emerged clearly from the statements made 
today, it is Members’ great agreement that there is an 
urgent need to adapt the structure of our Organization 
so  as  to  allow  it  to  adequately  reflect  the  changed 
international scene. In that regard, Peru reiterates that 
there is a need to advance towards the goals of achieving 
a renewed, reformed, expanded, more democratic and 
representative  Security  Council  that  is  also  effective 
and  efficient  and  whose  methods  of  work  are  more 
transparent.
My delegation wishes to acknowledge the efforts and 
valuable work done by the Permanent Representative of 
Jamaica, Ambassador Courtenay Rattray, as facilitator 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform, who carried out his delicate functions 
with transparency and the substantive participation of 
the  Member  States.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
the  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg  on  her 
appointment  to  head  that  important  process  at  this 
session. I take this opportunity to tell her that she can 
count on the support of my delegation.
In  accordance  with 
the  content  of  decision 
69/560,  my  delegation  values  the  work  done  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  during  the 
past  session.  Nevertheless,  we  are  aware  that  we 
need  a  document  that  covers  all  the  positions  of  all 
delegations involved, because Security Council reform 
will be feasible only if it enjoys the broadest possible 
political support of the membership. I reaffirm the full 
willingness  of  my  country  to  continue  to  participate 
constructively  in  the  process  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council and related matters.
I will not expand on Peru’s position on the points 
contained in decision 62/557. I will simply mention that 
we support the inclusion of new members, permanent 
and  non-permanent  alike,  in  order  to  promote  a  just 
and  equitable  regional  representation.  My  delegation 
believes that such an expansion should be sufficient to 
26/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
increase  the  Council’s  representativeness,  but  not  so 
great as to render it less effective.
With  regard  to  the  issue  of  the  veto,  Peru  has 
consistently maintained a principled position in favour of 
its eventual abolition. Aware of the inherent difficulties 
of such a move, my delegation supports a compromise 
limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  and  eliminating  the 
possibility of its use in cases of genocide, crimes against 
humanity  or  successive  flagrant  violations  of  human 
rights or international humanitarian law. We welcome 
the  policy  statement  issued  by  France  and  Mexico  in 
that regard, and participated in the drafting of the code 
of  conduct  recently  launched  by  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group,  of  which  we  are 
members.  With  regard  to  working  methods,  we  need 
practical  reform  to  increase  the  Council’s  legitimacy 
and transparency and the efficiency and effectiveness 
of its work.
Having  discussed  Security  Council  reform  for 
more than two decades, we can make progress only if 
we  show  flexibility  and  willingness  to  make  mutual 
concessions.  Reaffirming  our  national  positions  does 
nothing but postpone a decision that we all consider to 
be  of  the  greatest  importance,  because  if  we  wish  to 
reform  the  Security  Council,  we  must  turn  that  wish 
into concrete commitments.
Mr.  Espinoza  Jara  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  delegation  thanks  the  President  for  convening 
this important meeting. We stress our commitment to 
Security Council reform.
recognition 
I  extend  our  welcome  and 
to 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg, 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  on  her  appointment  as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiating process. We 
offer  her  our  support.  At  the  same  time,  we  reiterate 
our  gratitude  to  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, Mr. Sam Kutesa, and Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for their 
work during the sixty-ninth session.
  Decision  69/560,  adopted  by  consensus,  should 
serve  as  the  basis  for  our  work  on  a  subject  of  the 
greatest  importance  for  the  Organization.  We  must 
be  able  to  make  progress  towards  creating  a  Security 
Council that responds to new geopolitical realities and 
whose  working  methods  are  guided  by  transparency, 
effectiveness and efficiency. 
As we have stated in the past, my country supports 
the expansion of Security Council membership in the 
permanent and non-permanent categories alike. In that 
respect, we support the inclusion of Brazil, Germany, 
Japan  and  India.  At  the  same  time,  we  support  the 
African  aspiration,  which  we  believe  to  be  absolutely 
indispensable and appropriate.
With  regard  to  the  use  of  the  veto,  my  country 
has  expressed  its  position  in  regard  to  the  extension 
of  that  privilege.  As  a  consequence  of  its  position, 
Chile, alongisde 155 other Member States, supports the 
code of conduct to limit its use, as well as the French-
Mexican initiative along those lines.
I  shall  not  elaborate  on  our  national  position  on 
other aspects of this issue, but my delegation wishes to 
reiterate its commitment to a constructive and flexible 
approach to Security Council reform. We appeal to all 
Member  States  to  demonstrate  the  same  flexibility  to 
advance our common aim.
Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): Today 
we  are  addressing  the  complex  and  important  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform,  following  20  years  of 
discussion. In that regard, we commend the efforts made 
over the years to facilitate this discussion, and express 
our  thanks  and  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray, Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for his 
leadership during the sixty-ninth session. We welcome 
the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of 
Luxembourg  as  the  new  Chair  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  congratulate  the  newly  elected 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  for 
the biennium 2016-2017.
The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes 
the  Security 
Council’s  adoption 
this  morning  of  presidential 
statement S/PRST/2015/19, related to the improvement 
of  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
statement  reaffirms  the  complementarity  among  the 
principal organs of the United Nations. We hope that it 
signals another step towards strengthening reform and 
attaining our goals.
Over 
the  years,  we  have  witnessed  many 
international  and  regional  initiatives  addressing  the 
five elements of reform pursuant to decision 62/557. We 
wish  to  stress  once  again  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  are  the  only  forum  to  reach  consensus 
in regard to the expansion and reform of the Security 
Council  pursuant  to  that  decision,  which  lays  the 
15-34312
27/29
A/70/PV.44 
30/10/2015
foundation for the negotiations and their ownership by 
the Member States.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  endorsed  the  code  of 
conduct put forward by the Accountability Coherence 
and Transparency group in regard to the improvement 
of  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council, 
including the restriction of the right of veto in cases of 
crimes  against  humanity.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
the  French  initiative  calling  on  the  five  permanent 
members of the Security Council to voluntarily refrain 
from its use in such instances.
The  position  of  the  State  of  Kuwait  remains 
unchanged.  We  feel  that  all  proposals  to  reform  the 
Security  Council  should  be  aimed  at  empowering 
it  to  become  more  representative  and  to  reflect  the 
new  international  reality  that  has  emerged  since  the 
establishment of the United Nations 70 years ago. This 
will require the political resolve to bring points of view 
closer  together  in  order  to  overcome  differences  and 
find common ground regarding the future of the reform 
process. We are confident that Ambassador Lucas will 
help  us  to  achieve  such  consensus  through  her  able 
leadership of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The State of Kuwait believes that reform should be 
holistic; it should be an ongoing process leading to the 
evolution of all United Nations organs. It should make 
them  more  complementary  and  add  greater  balance 
to  the  work  of  the  Organization.  We  must  focus  on 
developing  the  relationship  of  the  Security  Council 
with  other  United  Nations  organs.  The  Security 
Council should not encroach on the competencies and 
mandates  of  other  organs,  such  as  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  It  should 
restrict its role to discharging its mandate to maintain 
international peace and security. 
We must pursue our work to improve the working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  by  ensuring  greater 
transparency and clarity and the adoption of permanent 
rules of procedure.
Any expansion of the Council’s membership should 
give  smaller  countries  access  to  membership  so  that 
they can contribute to its work. We should also take into 
consideration the right of Arab and Muslim countries 
to be fairly represented, in line with their number and 
importance  and  in  defence  of  the  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The  State  of  Kuwait  feels  that  achieving  any 
reform will require cool heads and flexibility. We must 
impose no measure that could undermine the unity and 
credibility of the Organization.
Ms.  Lucas  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
welcome this opportunity to make a few comments at the 
end of this very informative debate. The large number 
of  Member  States  and  groups  whose  representatives 
have  spoken  today  demonstrates  the  importance  of 
Security Council reform.
I  wish  first  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  having  entrusted  me  with  chairing  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  at  the  seventieth  session.  I  am  very  honoured 
by the confidence that President Lykketoft has placed 
in me. I am also mindful of the responsibility that goes 
with this appointment. Members may rest assured that I 
will do my utmost to show myself worthy of it.
Secondly,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  my  colleague 
Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  who  preceded  me  as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. I welcome 
his  tremendous  commitment  to  the  United  Nations. 
Alongside his team and the support of Member States, 
Ambassador  Rattray  unquestionably  succeeded 
in 
giving new impetus to the reform process. I will do my 
best to continue along the trail blazed at the sixty-ninth 
session  and  to  advance  the  negotiations  on  Council 
reform.
Thirdly, 
I 
for 
thank  my  colleagues 
their 
congratulations,  expressions  of  support,  words  of 
encouragement  and  even  their  advice  for  the  work 
ahead. It is my conviction that we will be able to make 
progress  in  Security  Council  reform  only  if  Member 
States commit, in good faith, to respecting one another 
in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent  manner.  I  am 
committed to working independently and impartially to 
promote an environment conducive to such constructive 
and collective engagement.
The framework for my work is clear, as outlined in the 
substantive decision 69/560, adopted on 14 September 
by the General Assembly. It is through that decision and 
others  adopted  from  2008  to  2014  —  beginning  with 
decision 62/557 — that the Assembly has mandated the 
intergovernmental negotiations. The framework of my 
mission is also set by the letter of appointment by the 
President of the General Assembly, dated 23 October. 
In the same spirit that President Lykketoft conveyed in 
his  letter  and  in  his  statement  from  this  rostrum  this 
28/29 
15-34312
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.44
morning  (see  A/70/PV.43),  I  encourage  all  Member 
States to maintain the momentum generated at the last 
session to advance the reform process on the basis of 
decision  69/650,  and  in  particular  the  positions  and 
proposals of Member States as laid out in the decision’s 
text and annex and distributed to the General Assembly 
in  the  President’s  letter  of  31  July.  For  the  first  time, 
we have a text referenced in a decision of the General 
Assembly, which will allow Member States to engage 
in  substantive  negotiations  on  reform.  I  encourage 
everyone to seize this opportunity.
I am mindful that reform of the Security Council is 
one of the most difficult reforms to make in the context 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  stakes  are  high,  but  the 
difficulty of the task must not cause us to shrink from 
it. It is in that spirit that I look forward to working with 
all during this anniversary session of our Organization. 
With  the  support  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  commitment  of  all  stakeholders,  I 
am convinced that we will be able to continue to move 
ahead on Security Council reform and contribute to the 
strong United Nations for a better world that our Heads 
of State and Government vehemently called for a month 
ago in this very Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 121.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
15-34312
29/29
