United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
12th plenary meeting
Sunday, 27 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 6.20 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Slovakia.
Mr.  Lajčák  (Slovakia):  At  the  dawn  of  the  new 
millennium,  we  convened  here  with  the  ambition 
of  eradicating  poverty  and  gave  birth  to  the  eight 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Now  we 
stand here again to review what we have achieved and 
what we still have to do to make our common ambition 
a  reality.  Despite  the  undeniable  progress  achieved, 
asymmetries  persist  across  regions  and  countries.  As 
we  speak,  some  800  million  people  are  still  living  in 
extreme poverty. They have been left behind.
We  salute 
the  Assembly’s  adoption  of 
the 
inclusive  2030 
revolutionary,  comprehensive  and 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1),  aimed  at  ensuring  a  prosperous  and  decent  life 
for  all.  Slovakia  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
for  Sustainable  Development 
General, the President of the General Assembly and the 
co-facilitators for their hard work to reach a balanced 
outcome document. Slovakia was actively involved in 
the  preparatory  process,  both  as  a  contributor  to  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  as  a  member  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing,  which  paved  the  way  for  the  adoption  of 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda.  We  commend  and 
support all 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
They  build  on  the  millennium  priorities  of  poverty 
eradication,  prosperity  and  gender  equality,  but  they 
also include new and relevant key factors of sustainable 
development, on which I would like to elaborate.
insisting 
First, one of the crucial lessons we learned from the 
Millennium Development Goals was that they focused 
mostly  on  statistical  targets  of  poverty  reduction 
while 
less  on  creating  socioeconomic 
conditions, infrastructure, addressing global threats to 
development  and  forging  an  enabling  environment  to 
support  these  objectives.  Slovakia  considers  all  those 
aspects — including the rule of law, good governance 
and  inclusive  institutions  —  to  be  equally  important 
and  fundamental.  We  consider  security-sector  reform 
a  parameter  relevant  to  the  achievement  of  Goal  16, 
on peaceful and inclusive societies. The absence of an 
enabling  environment  can  have  a  negative  impact  on 
many  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  such  as  those 
concerning  gender  equality,  women’s  empowerment 
and inclusive economic growth.
Secondly,  the  new  Agenda  lays  out  more  specific 
targets on the preservation of the environment and the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29259 (E)
*1529259*
A/70/PV.12 
27/09/2015
sustainable management of natural resources. A clear set 
of environmental goals should create critical momentum 
and  pave  the  way  for  a  successful  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, in Paris. We are on the right path. 
Thirdly,  Slovakia  supports  a  revitalized  global 
partnership,  as  proposed  in  Goal  17.  We  are  eager  to 
build  on  the  positive  results  from  MDG  8,  such  as 
the  principles  of  the  Busan  Partnership  for  Effective 
Development Cooperation and its voluntary initiatives.
in  Addis  Ababa,  official 
development 
the 
development  of  many  countries.  At  the  same  time, 
the  mobilization  of  all  domestic  resources  is  one  of 
the  crucial  elements  in  addressing  national  contexts. 
That is where Slovakia sees its biggest contribution to 
development,  through  sharing  its  know-how  on  fiscal 
reform  and  tax  collection.  A  new  global  partnership 
also means inclusive cooperation with all stakeholders, 
including those in civil society and the private sector.
As  we  discussed 
vital 
assistance 
remains 
to 
The  SDGs  must  be  implemented  at  two  levels: 
globally, through coordinated and inclusive cooperation, 
and  individually,  through  domestically  implemented 
strategies.  Every  Member  State  must  be  involved  and 
must  participate  and  contribute  to  the  extent  that  its 
own  regional  and  national  capacities  permit.  Joint 
action and individual responsibility are keys to success.
Finally, we need a systematic follow-up and review 
mechanism at the national, regional and global levels, 
based on balanced and smart indicators. The High-level 
Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development  could 
be  well  positioned  to  oversee  the  implementation  of 
the Agenda at the global level in order to preserve its 
universal character.
individual 
In  the  face  of  one  of  the  biggest  challenges  for 
humankind,  all  our  efforts  will  be  void  if  we  are  not 
determined to go well beyond our political discourse. 
We have to be courageous in putting the Agenda above 
our  collective  and 
interests.  Mahatma 
Gandhi’s wisdom tells us that strength does not come 
from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable 
will. Let us therefore not waste this unique momentum 
and  opportunity  to  bring  real  and  sustainable  change 
between  now  and  2030  and  beyond.  Let  us  board 
this  train  to  prosperity  and  peace  on  time.  But  most 
important, let us make sure that on the common journey 
of humankind, no one is left behind.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  now  call  on  the  Minister 
for  Socioeconomic  Planning  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines.
Mr.  Balisacan  (Philippines):  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  that  we  have  adopted 
(resolution 70/1) embodies our peoples’ aspirations for 
the next 15 years. Its 17 Goals and 169 targets build on 
the unfinished business of the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  on  recognition  of  the  interlinkages  of  the 
environmental, social and economic challenges facing 
us today. The inclusive consultation process was both 
an opportunity to build a shared global vision for the 
future we want and a venue for amplifying the voices of 
the poor and of the marginalized sectors. 
We  are  especially  encouraged  by  the  inclusion 
in  the  2030  Agenda  of  the  issues  of  migration, 
vulnerabilities,  collective  action  for  conservation  and 
inequalities of opportunity. The Philippines advocated 
that  the  Agenda  recognize  the  positive  contributions 
of  migrants  to  sustainable  development  in  countries 
of origin, transit and destination. We call on Member 
States  to  mainstream  migration  in  the  development 
process, reduce remittance costs and fully respect the 
human rights of migrants.
If  we  are  to  achieve  our  development  goals,  we 
need  to  take  urgent  action  to  combat  climate  change. 
We have seen extreme weather disturbances occurring 
with greater frequency and intensity. Those calamities 
can  negate  our  gains  in  reducing  poverty,  and  they 
can even roll back development. We therefore need to 
put in place climate-change adaptation and mitigation 
measures, particularly at the local levels, and increase 
investments  in  a  climate-resilient  economy.  In  line 
with that, we aim to ensure financial inclusion for all, 
particularly  through  access  to  insurance  and  capital 
and through mobile financing.
As President of the Climate Vulnerable Forum and 
as one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world, 
we  will  also  work  at  the  upcoming  Paris  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  to  ensure  that  we 
adopt a new, legally binding climate agreement that is 
universal and equitable and that will limit the increase 
in  the  global  average  temperature  to  below  2°C  or 
1.5°C  above  pre-industrial  levels.  In  that  regard,  the 
Philippines appreciates the emphasis placed in Goal 14 
on the need to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, 
seas and marine resources. Enshrining that as a global 
2/11 
15-29259
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.12
agenda obliges the community of nations to seriously 
acknowledge  challenges  to  conservation,  such  as 
destruction due to massive reclamation, as a common 
concern.  Those  challenges  need  to  be  collectively 
addressed using a rules-based approach in international 
law,  as  reflected  in  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  The  call  for  solidarity  puts 
into  words  the  pervasive  consciousness  on  how  local 
incidents impact worldwide events.
There is no true development if inequalities arising 
from  the  lack  of  access  to  opportunities  for  the  most 
vulnerable  remain.  We  aspire  to  achieve  education 
for  all,  universal  health  coverage,  food  security  and 
social  and  economic  inclusion,  supported  by  quality 
infrastructure. We are mindful of the pressing need to 
address  maternal  and  reproductive  health,  including 
access to sexual and reproductive health services, and 
to further accelerate the fulfilment of women’s rights.
Undoubtedly,  realizing 
the  global  Sustainable 
Development Goals will require financial and technical 
resources. We therefore seek partnerships for capacity-
building,  developing 
technology  and  expertise, 
expanding our access to resources for domestic resource 
mobilization,  leveraging  private-sector  participation 
and achieving resiliency.
As the 2030 Agenda pledges that no one will be left 
behind, there is also a demand for official statistics to 
be more disaggregated, frequent, timely and accessible. 
We therefore emphasize the need for capacity-building 
to  strengthen  statistical  agencies.  We  call  on  the 
international  community  for  increased  technical  and 
financial support in that regard.
This  Summit  is  merely  the  beginning.  To  move 
forward  to  achieve  the  Agenda’s  overarching  goal 
of  eradicating  poverty,  we  must  now  develop  our 
national plans and budgets for its implementation and 
monitoring. In doing so, we will collaborate with civil 
society and all stakeholders, in line with the principle 
of  inclusiveness  and  accountability.  The  Philippines 
pledges to make the 2030 Agenda a reality and to leave 
no  one  behind.  It  is  our  sacred  responsibility  to  our 
children and to future generations, and our solemn duty 
as Members of the United Nations.
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Portugal.
Mr.  Machete  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English text provided by the delegation): This historic 
moment, coinciding with the celebration of the United 
Nations  seventieth  anniversary,  represents  a  major 
turning  point  in  the  way  we  perceive  development. 
Fifteen years ago, world leaders came together in this 
city to create an unprecedented multilateral agreement 
in  response  to  global  challenges,  embodied  in  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  is  important  to 
recognize  that  much  has  been  accomplished  since 
then, but much still remains to be done. That requires 
a renewed determination from us all, while considering 
the  lessons  learned  from  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  from  the  world’s 
development landscape.
Portugal views the adoption of the 17 Sustainable 
Development  Goals  as  an  unparalleled  agreement  in 
promoting sustainable development and the eradication 
of  poverty  and  envisioning  a  world  where  all  human 
rights are fully respected. For that reason, I would like 
to commend the United Nations and to express my deep 
appreciation to all those who participated in this major 
negotiating process.
Today’s  world  challenges  —  such  as  climate 
change,  epidemics  and  the  dramatic  situation  that 
migrants  and  refugees  are  facing  daily,  putting  their 
lives at risk — are proof positive that it is not possible 
to think of our own welfare and security individually or 
according to geographic divides. The universality of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  is  therefore  paramount.  It  embodies  true  shared 
responsibilities in the search for a better future, beyond 
the  traditional  and  outdated  North-South  approach, 
the division between public and private actors, and the 
understanding  that  official  development  assistance  is 
the one and only response to our common challenges.
Today  there  exists  a  multiplicity  of  different 
actors  whose  capacity  to  contribute  can  and  should 
be  enhanced.  Among  them,  emerging  economies  and 
countries  with  a  growing  weight  as  donors  should  be 
taking  on  accrued  responsibilities  according  to  their 
political,  economic  and  financial  capacities.  The 
Agenda  also  requires  from  all  of  us  a  qualitative  and 
results-based approach, geared towards greater policy 
efficiency and coherence at all levels.
This  is  definitively  a  time  of  celebration,  but 
also  of  great  responsibility.  It  is  now  time  to  shape 
the  new  international  cooperation  paradigm  and  to 
implement  the  commitments  contained  therein.  The 
United Nations must continue to play an essential role 
in  addressing  these  global  challenges.  Nevertheless, 
it is up to us — Member States, multilateral agencies, 
15-29259
3/11
A/70/PV.12 
27/09/2015
these  17  Goals.  Within 
Parliaments,  local  authorities,  civil  society  and  the 
private sector — to take ownership and to implement 
and  follow  up  on 
this 
framework,  it  is  essential  to  consider  the  challenges 
faced  by  fragile  States  —  least  developed  countries, 
the  African  continent  and  small  island  developing 
States — in implementing the Goals. They require our 
special attention.
For  those  reasons,  Portugal  has  subscribed  to 
the  European  Union  commitments  made  at  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
at Addis Ababa, including that to collectively mobilize 
0.15  per  cent  to  0.20  per  cent  of  our  gross  national 
income for official development assistance to the least 
developed countries and to prioritize aid to the African 
continent.
Portugal’s  development  cooperation  focuses  on 
strengthening  the  links  among  peace,  security  and 
sustainable development. That approach will continue 
to  be  an  absolute  priority  for  us.  To  achieve  that 
goal,  we  have  accorded  special  focus  on  sectors  with 
structuring  and  multiplying  effects  on  sustainable 
development,  such  as  governance,  the  rule  of  law, 
human  rights,  education,  health  and 
institutional 
capacity-building, as well as the adoption of measures 
aimed at empowering women and girls and eradicating 
all  forms  of  gender-based  violence.  Portugal  has  also 
pursued significant investments in renewable energies 
and “blue growth”, with a special focus on protecting 
our  environment,  biodiversity,  and  seas  and  oceans, 
while  simultaneously  aiming  at  integrating  the  three 
dimensions of sustainable development.
Portugal  believes  that  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda will have to be pursued in true partnership. 
We  will  therefore  continue  to  work  with  and  involve 
civil society and local authorities in implementing the 
commitments that we have undertaken at this Summit. 
We  are  ready  to  work  in  partnership  with  our  fellow 
members  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries to integrate the 2030 Agenda in its work, and 
we  stand  ready  to  do  so  as  well  in  other  multilateral 
forums in which we participate.
We  have  come  a  long  way  since  negotiations  on 
this Agenda began. We are now at the starting point of 
a new chapter. I would like to conclude by reiterating 
Portugal’s  full  support  for  this  new  Agenda  and  for 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations. 
We  remain  convinced  that  only  by  joining  efforts, 
promoting economic and social progress and practicing 
tolerance will we live in peace.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Principality  of 
Andorra.
Mr.  Saboya  Sunyé  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  French): 
I would like, first of all, to welcome the co-Chairs of 
this  Summit  and  to  thank  the  co-facilitators  for  the 
ambitious final document we adopted earlier (resolution 
70/1).  “Transforming  our  world:  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development”  includes  17  Goals  and  169 
targets agreed on the basis of outstanding participatory 
work  of  inclusive  and  thoughtful  dialogue.  None  of 
us can today remain on the sidelines of this great step 
forward.
Like  today,  15  years  ago  we  committed,  through 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  to  promoting 
greater dignity and equality of all human beings. That 
commitment led us to an unprecedented advance. But 
while  we  recognize  that  unprecedented  progress,  we 
cannot allow ourselves to fall today into complacency. 
It must be acknowledged that progress has been uneven, 
and in some aspects it has even been insufficient. That 
is why we must recommit ourselves today with greater 
intensity  and  with  more  demanding  goals.  To  enjoy  a 
dignified life, hunger and extreme poverty in the world 
must be brought to an end. A dignified life for us and 
future generations cannot come about without equality 
or  without  security,  nor  can  it  be  without  democracy 
or  respect  for  human  rights.  These  are  key  aspects 
of  a  healthy  and  sustainable  environment  for  future 
generations.
The  tragedies  that  we  are  witnessing  every  day 
around the world — especially on the African continent, 
but also at the borders of Europe, with a refugee crisis 
that deserves not only our complete attention but also our 
complete solidarity and participation in the welcoming 
effort — are still too serious and too numerous. They 
are inadmissible.
(spoke in Spanish) 
We are convinced that the education of our young 
people,  particularly  civics  education  favouring  the 
promotion of human rights and democracy, is our best 
weapon  to  combat  intolerance  and  to  promote  equal 
opportunity and social cohesion. Therefore, education 
is  a  national  priority  in  Andorra,  with  free  and  open 
access to three public education systems — Andorran, 
4/11 
15-29259
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.12
French  and  Spanish,  one  of  the  peculiarities  of  our 
small country. 
But  education  is  also  a  priority  in  our  foreign 
policy.  Andorra  spends  more  than  20  per  cent  of 
its  development  cooperation  budget  on  education 
projects. Andorra has also been invited by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  —  to  whom  I  wish  to  express 
our  gratitude  again  here  today  —  to  join  the  Global 
Education  First  Initiative.  Furthermore,  during  the 
Andorran chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers 
of  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  theme  “Education  for 
Democratic  Citizenship”  was  our  priority.  Andorra  is 
thus making special efforts to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
to  education  and 
childhood. Similarly, and for their cross-cutting aspect, 
we pay particular attention to gender equality and the 
protection of the human rights of the most vulnerable 
groups.
relating 
Finally, as a country nestled in a natural environment 
of great value and which receives 8 million visitors each 
year, we are particularly sensitive to this asset, which 
entails  the  protection  of  our  environment.  Therefore, 
the  new  Government  has  a  Ministry  of  Environment, 
Agriculture  and  Sustainable  Development,  which 
is  putting  forward,  in  cooperation  with  the  various 
ministries,  institutions  and  social  agents,  a  cross-
cutting and inclusive vision for our participation at the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change. That summit, to be held in Paris at the end of 
this year, will be essential for the proper development 
of  the  Goals  that  we  have  just  adopted.  Andorra  has 
already submitted its contribution.
(spoke in English)
implementation.  The  adoption  of 
All  the  Goals  that  we  have  discussed  and  agreed 
together are a real global commitment, but they may not 
be achievable if they are not backed by strong political 
will and a strategy for following up on and reviewing 
their 
the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, together with the 
celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations, must today be the starting point for a common 
effort with the ambition to transform our world into a 
place where all human beings can live in dignity. 
We cannot leave anyone behind. This must be our 
commitment today. It has to be our ambition. It is our 
responsibility for the future.
As  Mr.  Juncker  said  a  few  weeks  ago  about 
the  European  Union,  there  must  be  more  national 
commitments  in  United  Nations  initiatives  and  more 
United Nations commitments in our national initiatives. 
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea. 
Mr. Ri Su Yong (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  interpretation  provided  by 
the delegation): As we mark the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  the  adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1), which reflects the will and desire of 
the  broad-based  membership  of  the  United  Nations, 
is  a  meaningful  event  in  United  Nations  history.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  we  have  adopted  is 
the  product  of  strenuous  efforts  by  the  international 
community 
to  achieve 
sustainable development worldwide.
to  eradicate  poverty  and 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals,  adopted 
15 years ago, made a positive contribution to promoting 
cooperation among countries and regions in all fields 
of socioeconomic development. However, we still have 
a  long  way  to  go  to  completely  liberate  humankind 
from poverty and build a free, peaceful and prosperous 
world.  With  that  in  mind,  we  have  adopted  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  contains 
more specific goals to reshape and transform the world.
In  order  to  achieve  the  Goals  for  the  complete 
eradication of poverty and for sustainable socioeconomic 
development,  a  peaceful  and  durable  environment 
for  development  should  have  priority.  As  is  generally 
known, some specific countries are creating artificial 
obstacles  in  the  peaceful  resolution  of  international 
problems  and  the  sound  and  sustainable  development 
of  countries  and  regions —  including  sanctions  in  an 
attempt to achieve their military and political objectives.
If  the  economic  sanctions  imposed  in  medieval 
independent  aspirations  of 
fashion  against 
developing  countries  are  left  intact,  the  excellent 
development goals that we set will not be achieved. A 
typical example is the United States of America, which 
constantly tries to suppress every sector of our people’s 
lives by resorting to all means. This proceeds from its 
inveterate animosity and hostile policy to eradicate the 
socialist  system  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea. However, what the United States of America 
the 
15-29259
5/11
A/70/PV.12 
27/09/2015
does not know is that the more remorseless the sanctions 
manoeuvres against the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea become, the stronger the will and spirit of our 
people will be, growing a thousandfold to defend more 
resolutely the prosperous and powerful socialist State, 
centred on the popular masses.
Under 
the  wise 
leadership  of 
the  respected 
Comrade  Kim  Jong  Un,  our  people  are  now  making 
unprecedented great achievements in their endeavours 
for  sustainable  socioeconomic  development,  while 
recently overcoming the unscrupulous sanctions and all 
other challenges on the way forward. We are striving to 
provide  our  people  with  more  abundant  and  civilized 
life by giving high priority to science and technology 
and  by  making  maximum  use  of  the  potential  of  our 
self-reliant economy. That effort of ours will make a due 
contribution  to  achieving  the  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  for  the  reform  and  transformation  of 
the  world.  We  will  vigorously  promote  equal  and 
beneficial economic cooperation, in collaboration with 
many  countries  around  the  world,  and  actively  join 
in  the  international  trend  to  translate  the  post-2015 
development Agenda into practice.
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Ms.  Bishop  (Australia):  When  Australia  signed 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  70  years  ago,  we 
committed  to  promoting  peace,  social  progress  and 
better standards of living for the peoples of the world. 
Australia  has  taken  that  commitment  seriously,  and 
today  we  are  agreeing  on  a  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  that  seeks 
to  end  extreme  poverty  within  a  generation.  It  is  an 
ambitious,  bold  and  necessary  objective.  Indeed,  it 
is  a  global  objective,  the  product  of  unprecedented 
consultation and negotiation. In the 15 years since the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were agreed, 
we have made great advances and have lifted hundreds 
of millions people out of extreme poverty.
That  achievement  should  be  celebrated.  But  in 
an  ever-changing  world,  new  challenges  continue  to 
arise.  The  2030  Agenda  recognizes  a  more  modern, 
contemporary  understanding  of 
the  drivers  of 
development  and  the  changing  distribution  of  global 
wealth. The last 15 years have shown us the benefits of 
building economic resilience — and so the 2030 Agenda 
rightly  has  a  sharp  focus  on  economic  growth.  Every 
single resource should be harnessed — so the rights and 
opportunities of women and girls are recognized in a 
stand-alone goal, and also across the 2030 Agenda.
Many countries that have struggled in their efforts 
to  achieve  the  MDGs  have  experienced  instability 
and  conflict,  as  we  have  seen  in  our  region  with  the 
experience  of  Solomon  Islands  and  Timor-Leste.  The 
World Bank estimates that more than 40 per cent of the 
world’s extreme poor live in conflict-affected and fragile 
environments.  Furthermore,  World  Bank  research 
predicts  that  this  percentage  will  at  least  double  by 
2030. Therefore the goal on peace and governance, for 
which Australia strongly advocated, will be critical for 
the eradication of extreme poverty and for the success 
of the entire 2030 Agenda.
The Sustainable Development Goals can only ever 
be  a  statement  of  ambition  unless  we  plan  for  how 
we  will  achieve  them.  In  that  regard,  we  look  to  the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda, agreed in July. Countries’ 
domestic  resources  are  now  the  largest  source  of 
development  finance.  Australia  is  pleased  to  be  part 
of  the  Addis  Ababa  tax  initiative  to  strengthen  tax 
systems, and we will double our investment in domestic 
resource mobilization by 2020. That builds on the work 
of the Group of 20 (G-20) in strengthening national tax 
systems and reducing illicit flows, as articulated in the 
G-20 Summit meeting held in Brisbane last November. 
The private sector, a critical driver of economic growth, 
job  creation  and  an  important  source  of  development 
finance, has a key role to play. Australia is increasingly 
partnering with our private sector, including on projects 
to provide access to finance for remote communities in 
the Pacific.
We  have  a  sharp  focus  on  innovation,  investing 
in  new  ways  to  solve  enduring  problems  and  finding 
creative  means  to  overcome  seemingly  intractable 
development  challenges.  While  the  2030  Agenda  is  a 
major  achievement,  it  cannot  be  the  end  of  our  work. 
Australia is committed to taking strong and responsible 
action on climate change, and I hope the ambition and 
momentum here in New York carries through to Paris. 
In particular, Australia was integral to the establishment 
of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  and  it  remains  central  to 
our efforts on climate change, especially in the Pacific. 
Australia  is  represented  on  the  Board  of  the  Green 
Climate  Fund  and  we  have  committed  $200  million. 
Our initial $70 million contribution has been paid.
Australia  is  a  land  of  opportunity,  prosperity 
and  inclusiveness.  However,  like  all  nations,  we  face 
6/11 
15-29259
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.12
challenges. We are taking action to sustainably manage 
our  land,  forests,  waterways  and  precious  marine 
resources,  including  the  Great  Barrier  Reef,  a  World 
Heritage Site that we have committed to preserve and 
conserve. We are investing in the skills of our people, 
diversifying our economy and increasing productivity. 
We are taking steps to promote gender equality, close 
the gap on indigenous disadvantage and support those 
with disability, including through a national disability 
insurance scheme.
In  giving  effect  to  the  new  Agenda,  we  can 
share  lessons  from  our  own  experience.  Through  our 
development  programme,  engaging  with  the  private 
sector  and  working  with  partners,  we  are  promoting 
prosperity and reducing poverty on a sustainable basis 
in  the  Indo-Pacific  region.  As  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  has  said,  the  true  measure  of  success  is  not 
how  much  we  promise,  but  how  much  we  deliver.  It 
will be by working together that we will deliver on the 
ambition of the 2030 Agenda. 
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Algeria. 
Mr.  Lamamra  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  This 
Summit is being held at a sensitive time. There are three 
very  important  events  taking  place:  the  adoption  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals, the recent launch 
of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  for  financing  for 
development and the prospect of a global agreement on 
climate change. This Summit offers us an opportunity 
to lay the foundations for a renewed global partnership 
based  on  human  well-being,  progress  and  improving 
the welfare the population in the framework of inclusive 
development.
Fifteen  years  ago,  with  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration,  we  launched  a  new  and 
ambitious  era  for  humankind  through  our  common 
and joint action to help the poorest and to give hope to 
millions of people for a better, fairer and more just and 
equitable world. We note with satisfaction that, 15 years 
after  their  adoption  and  despite  some  limitations,  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have provided 
for  unprecedented  mobilization  by  the  international 
community  in  addressing  the  challenges  related  to 
development issues in their manifold facets.
Under 
leadership  of  President  Abdelaziz 
the 
Bouteflika  and 
in 
implementing  his  programme, 
Algeria, which uses the MDGs as a framework for its 
national development, was able to achieve the majority 
of the Goals ahead of time, including those concerning 
the  eradication  of  poverty,  access  to  education,  the 
reduction  of  infant  and  maternal  mortality  and  the 
promotion of a sustainable environment.
Algeria has achieved the Goal on the eradication of 
poverty, a scourge directly affecting human dignity. In 
2013 and 2015, Algeria was recognized by the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for its 
achievements in that area.
Similarly,  Algeria  has  met,  and  even  exceeded  in 
2011, the minimum target in terms of universal primary 
education, with a net enrolment rate of 98.16 per cent of 
children 6 years of age.
Algeria has modernized its legislation with regard 
to  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women. 
A  law  was  adopted  to  ensure  greater  representation 
of  women  in  elected  bodies.  A  new  configuration  of 
the Algerian Parliament now brings the proportion of 
women  members  of  Parliament  to  31  per  cent.  This 
progress,  and  others,  reflects  the  efforts  carried  out 
by  the  Algerian  State  aimed  at  human,  economic  and 
social development. 
These are historic  times.  The challenges are very 
complex. Genuine will is needed to overcome the many 
obstacles to development. We must assume our common 
responsibilities in order to achieve a better future. 
I  hope  we  will  work  on  the  basis  of  our  common 
awareness and in the interest of our common future. We 
must overcome our selfishness in order to help future 
generations. We must achieve a better future — one that 
is safe and guarantees dignity and prosperity for all. 
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  now  call  on  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  International  Trade  and  Worship 
of Argentina. 
Mr.  Timerman  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina  is  pleased  about  the  recent  adoption  of  the 
development Agenda for the next 15 years (resolution 
70/1).  We  are  sure  it  will  provide  new  a  new  focal 
point for Government action, including with regard to 
eradicating  poverty,  improving  health  and  promoting 
education  and  sustainable  development  with  social 
inclusion for all our peoples. 
Argentina is proud to be among the few countries 
to have achieved most of the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Last  month,  Argentina  was  recognized  by  the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations  for  its  success  in  combating  hunger,  and  by 
15-29259
7/11
A/70/PV.12 
27/09/2015
UNESCO in April as one of the countries with the highest 
rates  of  primary  school  enrolment  and  investment  in 
education.  Among  other  achievements,  I  should  point 
out  that,  over  the  past  decade,  Argentina  managed  to 
substantially reduce poverty, which now stands at 5 per 
cent below the hunger threshold. The infant mortality 
rate was reduced by 27 per cent between 1990 and 2013. 
The  maternal  mortality  rate  was  reduced  by  38.5  per 
cent,  as  the  result  of  multiple  initiatives  carried  out 
by  the  national  Government.  Argentina  now  has  one 
of  the  most  comprehensive  immunization  schedules 
in  the  region  and  the  world.  At  the  end  of  this  year, 
we  will  provide  19  free  and  mandatory  vaccines.  As 
a national policy in response to the HIV epidemic, we 
also provide universal access to preventive diagnostics 
and treatment. 
Those achievements demonstrate Argentina’s firm 
commitment to meeting the Millennium Development 
Goals, a commitment that we assume today with regard 
to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1). The new Agenda embodies the ideals 
of our time to bring about a more just, inclusive, equal 
and  peaceful  world.  To  achieve  that  aim,  the  Agenda 
must  be  designed  and  implemented  with  a  human 
rights-based approach through a specific and consistent 
action  plan  with  reliable  and  transparent  monitoring 
mechanisms. 
Argentina  actively  participated  in  the  negotiation 
of  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and 
the  169  associated  targets,  which  largely  reflect  the 
social development policies that we have implemented 
over the past decade. 
The  Argentine  Government  underscores 
the 
importance  of  this  Agenda  and  will  establish  the 
appropriate  national  policies  to  fully  implement  it  by 
2030. We hope that, in the next 15 years, the Agenda 
is  able  to  mobilize  a  common  effort  without  ignoring 
historical  responsibilities,  which  are  the  result  of 
centuries of colonialism and which are reflected in the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. 
We also hope it is able to achieve what we committed 
to  at  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development 
and  reaffirmed  at  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development,  the  third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  in  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
This agenda includes the protection of the human 
rights of women in its affirmation that the achievement 
of full human potential and of sustainable development 
is  not  possible  if  one  half  of  humankind  continues  to 
be  denied  its  full  human  rights  and  opportunities.  It 
is therefore exceedingly positive that there is a cross-
cutting  approach  to  gender  through  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, including Goal 5, specifically on 
gender.  The  implementation  of  public  policies  aimed 
at women will contribute even more towards ensuring 
that  they  are  socially,  economically  and  politically 
involved. The Government of Argentina recognizes and 
is confronting the challenges ahead of us, and believes 
in  the  necessity  of  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
addressing problems stemming from gender inequality 
in order to achieve a more just society by 2030.
Argentina  is  working  towards  a  model  for  a 
democratic  and  inclusive  society,  with  full  respect 
for  human  rights  for  everyone.  The  the  right  to 
development  is  so  interlinked  that  we  cannot  achieve 
sustainable  development  unless  we  fully  respect  all 
human rights and include the most vulnerable members 
of  the  population  with  dignity.  That  effort  —  which 
means that we must reaffirm that all human rights are 
universal,  indivisible  and  interdependent  —  allowed 
Argentina to achieve notable and decisive progress in 
reducing  poverty  and  unemployment  rates,  in  such  a 
way that economic growth was accompanied by a real 
process  of  social  inclusion.  Such  examples  include 
our  policies  on  expanding  rights,  as  reflected  in 
meaningful progress in the context of gender identity, 
ensuring death with dignity, equal marriage rights and 
mental  health  rights.  The  same  spirit  of  inclusivity 
is  also  present  in  the  implementation  of  our  national 
anti-discrimination programme, assistance to children 
and pregnant women, universal health-care coverage in 
our provisional system and the inclusion of migrants in 
our national development while ensuring their human 
rights without regard to their migratory status. Those 
are some of the measures that have been incorporated 
in national policy since 2003. That expansion of rights 
is  today  anchored  in  a  solid  foundation  that  provides 
a crucial role for State policy as a key tool to provide 
access  to  more  equitable  living  conditions  for  all 
segments of the population. 
Argentina reaffirms the importance of integrating 
the three pillars of sustainable development: inclusive 
economic  development, 
social  development  and 
environmental and balanced sustainability. With regard 
to the environment, we need to work in a comprehensive 
manner,  as  stated  throughout  the  Agenda,  in  order  to 
protect,  restore  and  sustainably  use  our  ecosystems, 
which  are  central  in  our  development.  The  Agenda 
8/11 
15-29259
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.12
envisions an eventual human right to water. Argentina 
supports the commitment to improve access to drinking 
water  and  sanitation  to  all  persons,  in  a  fair  manner 
and  without  discrimination,  as  a  human  right  that  all 
States should ensure to all people under their respective 
jurisdictions.
Argentina  is  concerned  about  the  process  of 
implementing  the  Agenda  because  —  based  on  what 
we  agreed  upon  at  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  —  that  is  an  indivisible 
package  in  terms  of  measures  of  implementation. 
However, when it comes to the means of implementation 
and financial resources, we see an imbalance between 
the Agenda’s commitments in terms of those taken on by 
developing countries and those taken on by developed 
countries.  Developed  countries  are  all 
the  more 
responsible to contribute more financially to meet their 
commitments.  It  is  therefore  important  that  we  recall 
the historic commitment undertaken — and recalled on 
various  occasions  —  that  developed  countries  devote 
0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to official 
development  assistance  —  a  commitment  that,  with 
only  a  few  exceptions,  has  not  been  honoured.  That 
has  served  to  delay  and  even  make  impossible  the 
implementation  of  many  initiatives  that  could  have 
contributed to achieving sustainable development and 
eradicating poverty throughout the world.
In contrast, over the last few years, Argentina, along 
with other countries of the South, has been increasing 
its South-South cooperation as a response of solidarity 
by the countries and the peoples of the South. That has 
come about as a result of our shared characteristics and 
experiences,  guided  by  the  principles  that  underpin 
our  cooperation.  Argentina’s  efforts  at  cooperation 
have been bound up with the United Nations from its 
inception,  as  illustrated  by  the  Buenos  Aires  Plan  of 
Action  on  technical  cooperation  among  developing 
countries and the decision to set up an Argentine fund 
for South-South and triangular cooperation. These are 
Argentina’s tools to carry out on the ground agreements 
concluded  at 
level.  The  2030 
Agenda must be the fulcrum for public investment in 
developing countries so as to help transform the system 
for the accumulation of capital, without any decrease, 
and  generate  investment  for  capacity-building  and 
opportunities  and  promote  investment  in  sectors  that 
add value.
international 
the 
Argentina  hopes  that  the  agreements  reached 
on  guiding  principles  and  defined  goals  will  build  a 
genuine change for women and children throughout the 
world, insofar as we are able to come up with the means 
of  implementation,  cooperation  and  monitoring  that 
can deliver on the commitments that we have made.
Lastly, I would like to conclude by quoting from the 
speech made by His Holiness Pope Francis here in this 
Hall just two days ago: 
“The international financial institutions should work 
to help countries achieve sustainable development 
and ensure that they are not subjected to oppressive 
lending systems that, far from promoting progress, 
subject people to mechanisms that result in greater 
poverty,  exclusion  and  dependence”.  (A/70/PV.3, 
p. 3)
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Duda  (spoke  in  Polish;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  speaking  here  in 
New York today as a representative of a nation that just 
30  years  ago  lagged  far  behind  the  developed  world 
with  regard  to  economic  and  social  indices.  The  sad 
reality  experienced  today  by  thousands  of  countries 
throughout  the  world  was,  in  the  not-so-distant  past, 
also my own experience and that of my compatriots.
We  finally  threw  off  the  yoke  of  communism 
26  years  ago.  After  45  years  without  sovereignty  and 
having  been  cut  off  by  the  Iron  Curtain,  our  country 
found itself in a position of such isolation. Today we are 
rebuilding our national freedom, rooted in our national 
traditions.  The  democracy  and  entrepreneurship  of 
Poles are the foundation of our development today. At 
the same time, we must do our best to ensure that our 
social cohesion, family bonds and traditional system of 
values are kept in place. 
The credit for the model of Polish development goes 
to Solidarity, a unique social movement of which we are 
so  proud  today.  The  credit  goes  to  millions  of  Poles, 
who craved freedom and were ready to fight for it. At 
last, they managed to achieve it. But the credit also goes 
to the other kind of solidarity — the one we received 
from more affluent countries. We benefited from their 
financial  support,  their  advice  and  experiences.  We 
know  how  much  time  and  effort  it  cost  us  to  travel 
down  that  road.  There  is  still  much  left  to  be  done. 
However, as the President of the Republic of Poland, I 
15-29259
9/11
A/70/PV.12 
27/09/2015
remain convinced that the energy of my fellow citizens, 
their diligence and their sense of innovation will let us 
jointly attain the level of development to which we have 
aspired for a number of years.
When I look at the history of contemporary Poland, 
I  am  reminded  of  a  concise  slogan  coined  by  a  well-
known American politician, a slogan filled with vigour 
and hope: “Yes, we can!” Yes, we are doing it. And the 
question  arises:  can  others  do  it  too?  I  have  no  doubt 
that  they  can  also  achieve  the  same  success  and  one 
day say, 
“We have also made it. We can be better off, have a 
better education, and our children will be able to feel 
safe. We will not have to leave our countries — as 
we have to do today — struggling against war and 
poverty,  looking  for  safety,  security  and  better 
lives, far away from our homeland.”
Let us do everything that we can to ensure that those 
people can return to their homes and peace is restored 
and  to  help  those  countries  come  back  to  the  path  of 
economic development.
Fifteen  years  have  passed  since  the  Millennium 
Summit,  at  which  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  adopted  an  ambitious  plan  for  improving  the 
existence  of  the  nations  of  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin 
America  that  suffer  most  from  hunger,  epidemics, 
illiteracy and high infant mortality. The bar was placed 
very high, and not all of the Millennium Development 
Goals  have  been  achieved.  Nevertheless,  huge  steps 
forward  were  taken  in  many  areas.  The  number  of 
people living on $1.25 or less a day fell by more than 
50 per cent, from 1.9 billion to 836 million. That can be 
considered a success. However, we must not forget that 
those 836 million people still live in extreme poverty. 
That is almost as many as the populations of the United 
States and the European Union combined. The number 
of  new  HIV  cases  has  decreased  by  40  per  cent,  and 
that can also be considered a success. But the epidemic 
is  still  not  under  control.  Drinking  water  has  been 
made accessible to almost 2.6 million people, another 
genuine  achievement,  but  more  than  660  million  are 
still without it.
country and its resources, both natural and human, will 
be mismanaged. Therefore, when we discuss which of 
the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  we  would  like 
to  achieve  by  2030,  we  cannot  be  satisfied  only  with 
successes  in  individual  categories.  We  should  do  our 
best  to  ensure  equal  progress  in  each  of  the  priority 
areas.
Meeting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  will 
demand  enormous  levels  of  financing.  With  that  in 
mind, we should take even more care to ensure that the 
funds allocated are spent in a thoughtful way that brings 
about concrete results. Donors cannot pat themselves on 
the back for funding this or that project, because this is 
not just about spending money; it is about making smart 
investments. We should also avoid tying development 
aid to actions that others see as imposing a system of 
values or an ideology on them. That applies particularly 
to  such  issues  as  family  models,  education,  bringing 
up children and safeguarding life. We should focus on 
standards that can help ensure freedom and a better life 
to everyone equally, such as those related to the rule of 
law,  freedom  and  inclusive  societies.  Wherever  there 
is respect for the law, justice is guaranteed, and public 
institutions are efficient and work for the benefit of the 
people,  that  is  where  we  lay  the  true  foundations  for 
genuine development and welfare.
Sustainable  development  should  also  aim  at 
establishing good governance, an important element in 
enabling humankind and the State to develop. Action for 
development should focus on promoting effectiveness, 
and that can be achieved with small, concrete projects. 
I would like to point out that we can often do a lot with 
little  money.  To  cite  just  one  example,  a  joint  report 
of the World Health Organization and UNICEF states 
that over the past 15 years the number of new cases of 
malaria has been reduced by 37 per cent. The mortality 
index for that disease has dropped by as much as 60 per 
cent, which means that 6 million lives have been saved. 
While malaria is still killing people, the fight against 
it is becoming ever more effective. Why? Among other 
things, thanks to the large-scale use of a thing as simple 
as a cheap mosquito net, costing about $10 to produce 
and distribute.
The  areas  covered  by 
the  eight  Millennium 
Development Goals resemble a set of connecting tubes. 
A  lack  of  clean  water  leads  to  dangerous  epidemics. 
Diseases  weaken 
the  human  organism.  Children 
weakened  by  illnesses  miss  out  on  an  education,  and 
a  lack  of  education,  in  turn,  means  that  in  future  the 
There are more such examples. Pope Francis spoke 
recently  about  our  unacceptable  waste  of  food.  How 
much  could  be  achieved  if  we  only  heeded  his  call? 
How  much  could  we  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate 
change if we not only limited carbon dioxide emissions 
but  also  pursued  a  reasonable  forestation  policy? 
10/11 
15-29259
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.12
Numerous  regions  all  over  the  world  are  afflicted  by 
the  problem  of  desertification.  Hundreds  of  hectares 
of  forests  are  disappearing  from  the  Earth  and  our 
arable land area is shrinking. Yet afforestation and soil 
rehabilitation improve air and water quality. They mean 
fewer  illnesses  and  less  poverty.  We  should  therefore 
address environmental issues in a comprehensive way, 
protecting our water, land and air.
Let us help the countries that are in need today. But 
let us do it in a smart way, helping them stand on their 
own two feet, so that one day they will be able to join 
the global economic system on an equal footing, without 
unnecessary limitations and barriers, able to take full 
advantage  of  the  benefits  of  free  trade,  to  produce 
and sell and use that income for further development, 
constructing hospitals, schools, roads and water supply 
systems.
Two  years  ago  Poland  became  a  member  of  the 
Development Assistance Committee of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development, affirming 
our  position  as  a  country  that  does  not  shirk  its 
responsibility  to  help  less  affluent  or  less  developed 
countries. In my capacity as President of the Republic 
of  Poland,  I  declare  that  we  are  fully  open  and  ready 
to cooperate with our partners in order to achieve the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  2030,  based  on 
our  capabilities  and  our  ability  to  tap  into  Poland’s 
experience  in  building  a  free-market  democracy.  We 
want to ensure that the countries to which we offer our 
support today can soon say, “We too have succeeded. 
We have done it.”
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Poland for his statement.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: We are approaching the end 
of this very important Summit. I would like to say that 
it  is  a  miracle  that  we  have  been  able  to  agree  after 
such  a  long  time.  The  Bible  says  that  there  are  two 
great laws — the first is that we should love God with 
all  our  hearts,  and  the  second  is  that  we  should  love 
our neighbours as we love ourselves. It has been very 
difficult, however, for the people of the world to love 
one another as they love themselves.
I am therefore amazed that at long last we have got 
an agreement that is sensible and global. We are not just 
talking about human rights, because people often talk 
about human rights, but they do it without talking about 
production. They talk about consumption without talking 
about  production.  These  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  however,  talk  about  industrialization,  trade 
and  infrastructure  development.  They  do  not  talk 
about  philanthropy;  they  talk  about  development  and 
growth and investment. After 50 years of watching the 
selfishness there is in the world, I am therefore happy 
that I am now beginning to see some common sense in 
these international forums.
We have come to the end of this historic Summit. 
Before  concluding  this  plenary  meeting,  I  would  like 
to invite participants to remain in their seats in order 
to view a short video on the Sustainable Development 
Goals. The video, entitled “The Story You Are Shaping”, 
will be shown immediately following the adjournment 
of this meeting.
The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.
15-29259
11/11
