United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
57th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 18 November 2015, 11 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 11.05 a.m.
Agenda item 113
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(f)  Election of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/548)
The President: By its decision 59/420 of 27 May 
2005,  the  General  Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the 
Secretary-General,  elected  Mr.  António  Manuel  de 
Oliveira Guterres as United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Refugees  for  a  period  of  five  years,  beginning  on 
15 June 2005 and ending on 14 June 2010. By its decision 
64/419  of  22  April  2010,  the  General  Assembly,  also 
on  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General,  re-elected 
Mr.  Guterres  as  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  for  a  period  of  five  years  beginning  on 
15  June  2010  and  ending  on  14  June  2015.  Members 
will  recall  that  by  its  decision  69/417  of  2  February 
2015,  the  General  Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the 
Secretary-General, extended the term of Mr. Guterres 
until 31 December 2015.
Members  will  also  recall  that  by  paragraph  9  of 
resolution  58/153  of  22  December  2003,  the  General 
Assembly decided to remove the temporal limitation on 
the continuation of the Office of the High Commissioner 
contained  in  its  resolution  57/186  and  to  continue  the 
Office until the refugee problem is solved.
In  his  note  contained  in  document  A/70/548, 
the  Secretary-General  proposes 
the  General 
Assembly elect Mr. Filippo Grandi as United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  for  a  period  of  five 
years,  beginning  on  1  January  2016  and  ending  on 
31 December 2020.
that 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides 
to  elect  Mr.  Filippo  Grandi  as  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  for  a  period  of  five 
years,  beginning  on  1  January  2016  and  ending  on 
31 December 2020?
It was so decided.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  congratulate  Mr.  Grandi  on  his  election  as  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (spoke in Chinese): On behalf 
of  the  Asia-Pacific  Group  of  States,  I  am  honoured 
to  welcome  and  support 
the  Secretary-General’s 
nomination  of  Mr.  Filippo  Grandi  as  the  new  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
I  congratulate  Mr.  Grandi  on  being  elected  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  wish  him  success 
in  his  new  position.  We  believe  that  Mr.  Grandi  will 
benefit  from  his  extensive  United  Nations  experience 
in the field of refugees as he fulfils his responsibilities 
as  High  Commissioner.  Given  the  current  complex 
refugee  situation,  the  international  community  will 
greatly benefit from his leadership and deep knowledge 
of the issue of international refugees. We also believe 
that Mr. Grandi will maintain close communication and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-37308 (E)
*1537308*
A/70/PV.57 
18/11/2015
cooperation with Member States and take full care of 
other concerns.
The  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees  is  a  critical  part  of  the  United  Nations 
system and is mandated to protect refugees, returnees 
and stateless people. In that light, we look forward to 
working  with  Mr.  Grandi  in  the  future  and  we  offer 
our Group’s full support to you, Mr. President, and the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
We would also like to express our utmost appreciation 
to  Mr.  António  Manuel  de  Oliveira  Guterres  for  his 
outstanding contributions during his tenure as United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. On behalf of 
the Asia-Pacific Group, we would also like to offer him 
our best wishes for his future endeavours.
The President: I now give the floor the observer of 
the European Union.
Mr.  Díaz  Carazo  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and its member States.
The  European  Union  warmly  welcomes 
the 
election  by  the  General  Assembly  of  Mr.  Filippo 
Grandi  of  Italy  as  the  next  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  pursuant  to  the  proposal 
by the Secretary-General. Mr. Grandi’s vast experience 
on  matters  related  to  forced  displacement,  be  it  as 
Commissioner-General  of  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East or in his previous work for the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the field, 
will be an invaluable asset for the Office of the High 
Commissioner. It is therefore with our greatest respect 
and  support  that  we  acknowledge  the  appointment  of 
Mr. Grandi as the new High Commissioner.
The  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  plays  a  fundamental  role 
in safeguarding the rights and well-being of refugees, 
stateless and other forcibly displaced populations. With 
60  million  people  forcibly  displaced  worldwide  due 
to  simultaneous  and  large-scale  humanitarian  crises, 
the  General  Assembly  has  assigned  Mr.  Grandi  the 
enormous task of promoting the voice of those that are 
usually the most vulnerable. In this regard, I would like 
to reassert the EU’s and its member States’ continuous 
staunch  support  for  the  Organization  in  the  spirit  of 
international cooperation and solidarity.
The European Union would also like to acknowledge 
the outstanding work of the High Commissioner Antônio 
Guterres, whose unwavering personal commitment and 
strong  leadership  have  helped  address  the  protection 
and assistance needs of displaced persons globally over 
the past 10 years.
Ms. Al-Thani (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  the  Sultanate 
of  Oman,  the  State  of  Qatar,  the  State  of  Kuwait  and 
Saudi  Arabia,  we  congratulate  Mr.  Filippo  Grandi  on 
his  appointment  and  election  to  succeed  Mr.  António 
Guterres as High Commissioner for Refugees.
At 
like 
the  outset,  I  would 
to  congratulate 
Mr.  Guterres  who,  throughout  his  mandate  over  the 
past 10 years, has shown a high level of responsibility 
at a time when the world has experienced a very high 
number of refugees and a large number of refugee crises, 
particularly  Syrian  refugees,  which  is  the  greatest 
refugee crisis since the Second World War. Many crises 
have been going on for decades, including that of the 
Palestinian  refugees.  Mr.  Guterres  has  mobilized  the 
necessary  efforts  to  bring  assistance  to  millions  of 
those who have been forced to leave their country. He 
consistently  saw  to  meeting  the  needs  and  mitigating 
the suffering of these refugees.
In  these  extremely  challenging  circumstances, 
Mr. Grandi is assuming his responsibilities. Mr. Grandi 
is  well  known  in  the  Organization  and  in  our  States. 
We  have  cooperated  and  collaborated  with  him  when 
he  was  the  Head  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
(UNRWA), which is the largest United Nations entity 
dealing  with  refugees.  His  work  as  a  Commissioner-
General  of  UNRWA  and  his  other  noble  qualities  put 
him  in  an  excellent  position  at  a  time  when  the  flow 
of  refugees  is  a  global  challenge.  These  refugees  are 
living in deplorable conditions, having been forced to 
leave their countries and risk their lives in order to have 
a better life.
The  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  consists  of  States 
which are among the primary ones to bring assistance 
to refugees and support the United Nations in this area. 
We  will  continue  our  cooperation  and  collaboration 
with Mr. Grandi and the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees so that they can fulfil 
their noble mission.
2/6 
15-37308
18/11/2015 
A/70/PV.57
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
sub-item (f) of agenda item 113?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 114 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(g) Appointment of the judges of the United Nations 
Dispute Tribunal
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/70/538)
Report of the Internal Justice Council (A/70/190)
The President: As indicated in document A/70/538, 
the terms of office of one full-time judge of the Dispute 
Tribunal  based  in  Nairobi,  Judge  Vinod  Boolell; 
one  full-time  judge  of  the  Dispute  Tribunal  based  in 
Geneva, Judge Thomas Laker; and one half-time judge 
of the Dispute Tribunal, Judge Coral Shaw, are due to 
expire on 30 June 2016.
It is therefore necessary for the General Assembly 
during its current session to appoint a full-time judge 
based in Nairobi, a full-time judge based in Geneva and 
a  half-time  judge  to  the  Dispute  Tribunal,  to  fill  the 
resulting vacancies. In accordance with paragraph 4 of 
article  4  of  the  statute  of  the  United  Nations  Dispute 
Tribunal, the term of office of the full-time judges and 
the half-time judge will be seven years.
In  its  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/70/190), 
the  Internal  Justice  Council  has  recommended  to  the 
Assembly  for  its  consideration  two  candidates  each 
for  the  full-time  vacancies  in  Nairobi  and  Geneva, 
respectively,  and  two  candidates  for  the  half-time 
vacancy.  Also  in  its  report,  the  Council  has  provided 
the  names,  by  position,  location  and  Tribunal,  of 
candidates  it  considers  suitable  for  election  to  the 
Dispute Tribunal.
The  candidates  recommended  by  the  Council 
for  appointment  as  a  full-time  judge  in  Nairobi  are 
Agnieszka Klonowiecka-Milart (Poland) and Fredrick 
Indran  X.  A.  Nicholas  (Malaysia).  The  candidates 
recommended by the Council for appointment as a full-
time judge in Geneva are Teresa Maria da Silva Bravo 
(Portugal) and Vincent Cador (France). The candidates 
recommended  by  the  Council  for  appointment  as  a 
half-time judge are Alexander Hunter (United States of 
America) and Valérie Laemmel-Juillard (Switzerland).
The  appointment  of  the  two  full-time  judges  and 
the  half-time  judge  of  the  United  Nations  Dispute 
Tribunal will be made in accordance with the statute of 
the Dispute Tribunal and the rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly.
Article  4  of  the  statute  of  the  United  Nations 
Dispute Tribunal states that
“[t]he  Dispute  Tribunal  shall  be  composed  of 
three  full-time  judges  and  two  half-time  judges 
...  The  judges  shall  be  appointed  by  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Internal 
Justice  Council  in  accordance  with  Assembly 
resolution  62/228.  No  two  judges  shall  be  of  the 
same  nationality.  Due  regard  shall  be  given  to 
geographical distribution and gender balance”.
Paragraph 3 of article 4 of the statute of the Dispute 
Tribunal  requires  that,  in  order  to  be  eligible  for 
appointment, a person shall be of high moral character 
and possess at least 10 years of judicial experience in 
the field of administrative law or the equivalent within 
one or more national jurisdictions.
Paragraph 4 of article 4 of the statute of the Dispute 
Tribunal provides that 
“A  judge  of  the  Dispute  Tribunal  shall  be 
appointed  for  one  non-renewable  term  of  seven 
years. As a transitional measure, two of the judges 
(one  full-time  judge  and  one  half-time  judge) 
initially  appointed  ...  shall  serve  three  years  and 
may be reappointed to the same Dispute Tribunal 
for  a  further  non-renewable  term  of  seven  years. 
A  current  or  former  judge  of  the  United  Nations 
Appeals  Tribunal  shall  not  be  eligible  to  serve  in 
the Dispute Tribunal”.
In  document  A/70/538,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
General  Assembly  proceed  to  appoint  the  full-time 
judges in Nairobi and in Geneva and the half-time judge 
of the Dispute Tribunal through an election, bearing in 
mind  paragraph  58  of  resolution  63/253,  in  which  the 
Assembly invited Member States, when electing judges 
to the United Nations Dispute Tribunal and the United 
Nations Appeals Tribunal, to take due consideration of 
geographical distribution and gender balance.
Only those candidates recommended by the Internal 
Justice  Council  whose  names  appear  in  document 
A/70/538  are  eligible  for  election.  The  electors  in  the 
General Assembly will indicate the candidates for whom 
they wish to vote by placing an “X” against each name 
15-37308
3/6
A/70/PV.57 
18/11/2015
on  the  ballot  papers.  Electors  may  vote  for  not  more 
than one candidate each for the full-time appointments 
in Geneva and Nairobi, and one candidate for the half-
time appointment.
Those candidates who obtain the highest number of 
votes and a majority of votes in the General Assembly 
of the members present and voting will be considered 
as  elected  and  thereby  appointed  by  the  Assembly 
to  the  Dispute  Tribunal.  Balloting  shall  continue  in 
accordance with the rules of procedure until as many 
candidates  as  are  required  for  the  full-time  and  half-
time  seats  on  the  Dispute  Tribunal  to  be  filled  have 
obtained, in one or more ballots, a majority of votes of 
the members present and voting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  these 
procedures? 
It was so decided. 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to the election of two full-time judges, one in 
Geneva and one in Nairobi, and one half-time judge of 
the United Nations Dispute Tribunal, using the voting 
procedures just outlined.
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Therefore,  in  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure,  the  election  shall  be  held  by  secret  ballot 
and there shall be no nominations Again, I should like 
to  repeat  that  the  two  full-time  seats  on  the  Dispute 
Tribunal  are  distributed  among  two  locations  of  the 
Tribunal,  namely,  Geneva  and  Nairobi.  The  ballot 
papers  reflect  this  pattern.  A  ballot  will  be  declared 
invalid if more than one name is marked for the full-time 
appointment to a given location of the Dispute Tribunal 
or for the half-time appointment to the Tribunal.
Before we begin the voting process, I would like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will only be given to the delegate seated directly 
behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Garrido 
(Chile),  Mr.  Ben-Ezra  (Israel),  Ms.  Jazukevičiūtė 
(Lithuania),  Mr.  Ammar  (Pakistan),  Ms.  Mokwar 
(Sudan)  and  Mr.  Pyvovarov  (Ukraine)  acted  as 
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 12.30 p.m. 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Ms. Teresa Maria da Silva Bravo (Portugal)  93
Mr. Vincent Cador (France) 
90
Full-time judge (Geneva): 
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting: 
Required majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained: 
Full-time judge (Nairobi):
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained: 
186
1
185
2
183
92
186
0
186
1
185
93
 186
0
 186
6
180
91
Ms. Agnieszka Klonowiecka-Milart (Poland) 120
Mr. Fredrick Indran X. A. Nicholas (Malaysia) 65
Half-time judge:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained:
Mr. Alexander Hunter, Jr. (United States of 
America) 
104
Ms. Valérie Laemmel-Juillard (Switzerland) 76
Having obtained the required majority of members 
present and voting and the largest number of votes, 
Ms.  Teresa  Maria  da  Silva  Bravo  (Portugal)  was 
elected  a  full-time  judge  of  the  United  Nations 
Dispute  Tribunal 
in  Geneva;  Ms.  Agnieszka 
Klonowiecka-Milart  (Poland)  was  elected  a  full-
time judge of the United Nations Dispute Tribunal 
in Nairobi; and Mr. Alexander Hunter, Jr. (United 
4/6 
15-37308
18/11/2015 
A/70/PV.57
States  of  America)  was  elected  a  half-time  judge 
of the United Nations Dispute Tribunal, for terms 
of office beginning on 1 July 2016 and ending on 
30 June 2023. 
The President: I take this opportunity to extend to 
those who have been elected the congratulations of the 
Assembly and to thank the tellers for their assistance in 
this election.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (g) 
of agenda item 114?
It was so decided.
(h) Appointment of the judges of the United Nations 
Appeals Tribunal
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/70/538)
Report of the Internal Justice Council (A/70/190)
The President: As indicated in document A/70/538, 
since the terms of office of four judges, namely, Judges 
Inés  Weinberg  de  Roca,  Luis  María  Simón,  Sophia 
Adinyira and Mary Faherty are due to expire on 30 June 
2016,  it  will  be  necessary  during  the  current  session 
for  the  General  Assembly  to  appoint  four  judges  to 
the Appeals Tribunal to fill the resulting vacancies. In 
accordance with paragraph 4 of article 3 of the statute, 
the  term  of  office  of  the  judges  will  be  seven  years, 
beginning 1 July 2016.
As  also 
indicated 
in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of article 3 of the statute 
of the Appeals Tribunal, the 
in  document  A/70/538, 
“judges shall be appointed by the General Assembly 
on  the  recommendation  of  the  Internal  Justice 
Council  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly 
resolution  62/228.  No  two  judges  shall  be  of  the 
same nationality”.
The  names  of  the  candidates  recommended  for 
appointment to the Appeals Tribunal are contained in 
document  A/70/538  and  their  profiles  are  contained 
in  document  A/70/190.  In  order  to  be  eligible  for 
appointment,  paragraph  3  of  article  3  of  the  statute 
of  the  Appeals  Tribunal  requires  that  a  person  be  of 
high  moral  character  and  possess  at  least  15  years  of 
judicial  experience  in  the  field  of  administrative  law, 
employment law or the equivalent within one or more 
national jurisdictions.
In  document  A/70/538,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
General  Assembly  proceed  to  appoint  the  judges  of 
the  Appeals  Tribunal  by  way  of  an  election,  bearing 
in mind paragraph 58 of General Assembly resolution 
63/253, in which the Assembly invited Member States 
when  electing  judges  to  the  United  Nations  Dispute 
Tribunal  and  the  United  Nations  Appeals  Tribunal  to 
take due consideration of geographical distribution and 
gender balance.
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
General Assembly agrees to the proposal?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  candidates  who  obtain  the 
highest number of votes and a majority of the votes of 
those  present  and  voting,  shall  be  considered  elected 
and thereby appointed by the Assembly to the Appeals 
Tribunal. Also, balloting shall continue, in accordance 
with  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly, 
until as many candidates as are required for the seats on 
the Appeals Tribunal to be filled have obtained, in one or 
more ballots, a majority of votes of the members present 
and voting. Also, consistent with past practice, in case, 
due to a tied vote, it becomes necessary to determine 
the candidate to be elected or who will proceed to the 
next round of restricted balloting, there will be a special 
restricted ballot limited to those candidates who have 
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to the election of the four judges of the United 
Nations  Appeals  Tribunal.  Only  those  candidates 
whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot  papers  are  eligible 
for election. Representatives are requested to indicate 
the candidates for whom they wish to vote by placing 
an  “X”  against  their  names  on  the  ballot  papers. 
Each  representative  may  vote  for  not  more  than  four 
candidates for appointment to the Appeals Tribunal. A 
ballot will be declared invalid if more than four names 
are marked on the ballot. The election will be held in 
accordance with the relevant rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly. Therefore, in accordance with rule 
92 of the rules of procedure, the election shall be held 
by secret ballot and there shall be no nominations.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
15-37308
5/6
A/70/PV.57 
18/11/2015
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will only be given to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Garrido 
(Chile),  Mr.  Ben-Ezra  (Israel),  Ms.  Jazukevičiūtė 
(Lithuania),  Mr.  Ammar  (Pakistan),  Ms.  Mokwar 
(Sudan)  and  Mr.  Pyvovarov  (Ukraine)  acted  as 
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  12.45  p.m.  and 
resumed at 1.15 p.m. 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting: 
Required majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained:
Ms. Martha Halfeld Furtado De Mendonça 
183
0
183
1
182
92
Schmidt (Brazil) 
148
Mr. John Raymond Murphy (South Africa)  124
103
Ms. Sabine Knierim (Germany) 
Mr. Dimitrios Raikos (Greece) 
93
84
Ms. Joëlle Adda (France)  
65
Mr. Boštjan Zalar (Slovenia) 
Ms. Constance Darlene Hunt (Canada)  
51
Ms. Fiona Monk (United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland)  
45
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
largest  number  of  votes,  Ms.  Martha  Halfeld 
Furtado De Mendonça Schmidt (Brazil) , Mr. John 
Raymond  Murphy  (South  Africa)  ,  Ms.  Sabine 
Knierim  (Germany)  and  Mr.  Dimitrios  Raikos 
(Greece) were elected judges of the United Nations 
Appeals Tribunal for a term of office beginning on 
1 July 2016 and ending on 30 June 2023.
The President: I take this opportunity to extend to 
those who have been elected the congratulations of the 
Assembly and to thank the tellers for their assistance in 
this election.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (h) 
of agenda item 114?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
6/6 
15-37308
