United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
34th plenary meeting
Friday, 16 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 66 and 14
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Reporta of the Secretary-General (A/70/175 and 
A/70/176) 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The  President:  Let  me  start  with  a  few  remarks. 
The  year  2015  has  been  a  momentous  year  for  the 
African continent and for the international community. 
We have witnessed the adoption of the African Union’s 
Agenda  2063  and  its  first  10-year  Implementation 
Plan,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on  financing 
for  development,  and  the  universal  and  global  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
with  the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  A  new 
upcoming  climate  change  regime  is  expected  to  add 
even more significance, ambition and feasibility to all 
these agreements.
Together, those agendas bring global, continental, 
regional  and  national  plans  into  a  single  holistic  and 
coherent framework for advancing and following up on 
Africa’s development. It is important to underscore the 
nexus  of  those  agendas  and  the  need  for  synergy  and 
complementarity in their implementation. 
Today’s  joint  debate  is  an  opportunity  to  reflect 
on  our  collective  efforts  to  partner  with  Africa  and 
support the continent in its efforts to tackle challenges 
and maximize opportunities in the areas of peace and 
security,  human  rights  and  sustainable  development. 
The debate is also a clear demonstration of the special 
place  accorded  to  Africa  in  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly.
Over recent years, the African continent has made 
significant  strides  in  human  development,  political 
governance,  and  peace  and  security.  And  today  it 
offers  the  world’s  most  promising  growth  potential. 
But  more  than  42  per  cent  of  sub-Saharan  Africans 
still live below the poverty line, and with a number of 
African  countries  continuing  to  experience  conflict 
and  instability,  significant  challenges  remain  on  the 
African continent.
In  relation  to  malaria,  commendable  efforts,  in 
particular  by  the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance, 
have  helped  to  reduce  malaria  incidence  in  Africa 
by  more  than  34  per  cent  between  2000  and  2013. 
On  the  other  hand,  in  2015  alone  it  is  estimated  that 
more  than  340,000  Africans  will  die  needlessly  from 
that  preventable  disease.  I  therefore  encourage  the 
General Assembly, the United Nations system and other 
stakeholders  to  continue  to  work  together  to  combat 
that disease.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-31804 (E)
*1531804*
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
Many  of  the  challenges  relating  to  malaria  are, 
of  course,  linked  to  broader  development  challenges 
on  the  continent.  In  that  sense  it  is  appropriate  that 
today  we  also  consider  progress  in  implementing  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
NEPAD  represents  a  framework  for  pan-African 
socioeconomic development and is an essential blueprint 
for  ensuring  a  positive  socioeconomic  transformation 
in  Africa,  including  by  combating  poverty  in  all  its 
forms. Its importance in supporting the implementation 
of both the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda has been recognized in both documents.
The  latest  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
NEPAD  (A/70/175)  highlights  various  actions  being 
taken  by  African  countries  towards  the  achievement 
of the objectives of the Partnership. From institutional 
development projects to agriculture and food security, 
commitment  to  health  and  primary  education,  and 
human  capital  development,  African  States  are 
demonstrating  their  resolve  to  fully  implement  this 
whole development blueprint.
The  support  of  international  partners  for  NEPAD 
and its flagship programmes such as the African Peer 
Review Mechanism cannot be overstated and is integral 
to the success of the Partnership. The United Nations 
plays  a  particularly  crucial  role,  and  I  should  like  to 
commend  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
system, especially the Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa  under  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz, 
to support the full implementation of NEPAD, Agenda 
2063, and other continental programmes.
important 
linkages  between 
The Secretary-General’s recent report also reaffirms 
the 
socioeconomic 
development  and  peace  and  security  in  Africa,  and 
it  outlines  a  number  of  recommendations  on  which 
we  should  all  reflect  in  order  to  maintain  political 
momentum around NEPAD.
As  we  begin  a  new  chapter  in  international 
cooperation, let us work together to fight malaria and 
complete the Millennium Development Goals aimed at 
protecting human rights and to lay the foundations for 
peace,  prosperity  and  sustainable  development  across 
the  African  continent.  I  hope  that  today’s  debate  will 
provide a positive contribution to those efforts.
Mr. Nyembe (South Africa): I have the honour to 
take part in this debate on behalf of the States of the 
Group  of  77  and  China.  The  Group  of  77  and  China 
wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
on the items that we are discussing today.
Despite all the actions and commitments by African 
countries, the main constraint on African development 
remains the lack of adequate resources. It is, however, 
highly  commendable  that  African  leaders  have  been 
taking  ownership  and  leadership  of  the  continent’s 
socioeconomic renewal agenda in order to transform its 
development  agenda  through  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
We  believe  that  the  challenges  that  the  continent 
continues  to  contend  with,  such  as  the  fight  against 
poverty,  high  youth  unemployment  and 
rising 
inequality, among others, need global cooperation and 
partnership. The Group of 77 and China also believes 
that  Africa  requires  more  support  on  its  development 
path,  including  through  its  development  framework 
known as the African Union Agenda 2063, which is its 
strategic agenda for ensuring a positive socioeconomic 
transformation in Africa within the next 50 years. The 
Group of 77 and China is encouraged by the importance 
attached  by  Member  States  to  supporting  the  African 
Union Agenda 2063, and we are certain that the support 
given  will  translate  into  firm  commitments  towards 
promoting Africa’s development.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  further  believes  that 
the  recently  adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda  on  financing  for  development  present 
tangible  prospects  for  foreign  direct 
investment 
flows  into  Africa,  serving  as  an  important  source  of 
financing  for  development  in  the  continent  without 
upsetting official development assistance (ODA), which 
remains the main source of international financing for 
development.
The Group reiterates the importance of the need for 
developed countries to fulfil their commitments to the 
developing countries regarding ODA and also to provide 
genuine debt relief to African countries, especially the 
least  developed  countries.  The  Group  would  like  to 
reiterate  that  North-South  cooperation  still  lies  at  the 
core of the global partnership for development. South-
South  cooperation,  triangular  cooperation  and  the 
private sector are complements rather than substitutes.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  are  transformative 
in  nature  and  will  play  a  critical  role  in  achieving 
development  objectives  and 
inclusive  sustainable 
2/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
growth and development in Africa. The Group of 77 and 
China is of the firm belief that they will undoubtedly 
contribute to greater active participation of the African 
economies in the global economy and will also promote 
regional economic cooperation and integration.
to  all 
the  delegations  for 
The Group of 77 and China would like to express 
its  appreciation 
their 
constructive  contributions  earlier  this  year,  which  led 
to  the  adoption  of  resolution  69/291,  on  the  causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa.  That  provided 
continued  affirmation  of  the  support  that  the  United 
Nations membership has expressed for the promotion of 
durable peace and sustainable development in Africa. 
We believe that that resolution continues to provide an 
important platform for stressing Africa’s responsibility 
for  and  role  in  promoting  peace  and  security  in  the 
continent and entails the need for Africa to strengthen 
its capacity to address the root causes of conflict and to 
resolve conflicts in a peaceful manner.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  acknowledges  the 
positive trends and advances in obtaining durable peace 
in  Africa  and  also  emphasizes  the  need  to  create  the 
conditions  required  for  durable  peace  as  a  necessary 
condition for sustainable development. In that regard, 
there is an urgent need to continue developing African 
human  and  institutional  capacities,  particularly  in 
countries emerging from conflict. Furthermore, besides 
traditional threats to peace and security in Africa, we 
must  also  find  solutions  to  address  other  emerging 
challenges, particularly terrorism.
We  therefore  reaffirm  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations  system  to  support  African  regional  and 
subregional  organizations  in  the  implementation  of 
counter-terrorism  action  plans.  In  that  regard  we  are 
encouraged  by  the  commitment  of  Member  States 
to  supporting  the  efforts  of  the  African  countries  to 
achieve the goal of a conflict-free Africa and to end all 
wars in Africa by 2020.
Over  the  past  15  years,  the  world  has  seen 
tremendous progress on malaria control and prevention. 
The  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  reports  that 
nine  countries  —  Algeria,  Botswana,  Cape  Verde, 
Namibia,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  South 
Africa, Swaziland and Eritrea — are on track to reduce 
the  incidence  of  malaria  by  77  per  cent,  and  three 
additional countries are projected to achieve reductions 
of between 50 per cent and 75 per cent by the end of 
2015. Those tremendous results mean that 3.9 million 
child deaths have been averted in Africa.
Lastly,  despite  the  success  of  the  unprecedented 
scaling-up  of  anti-malaria  interventions,  much  work 
remains  to  be  done,  and  many  countries  in  Africa 
continue  to  experience  challenges  in  rolling  back 
malaria, as a result of which they fall short of national and 
international development targets. As we move towards 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and work 
in pursuit of malaria elimination, there is a persistent 
need  for  the  United  Nations  system,  specifically  the 
WHO, to assist in addressing weak health systems and 
the  inequitable  access  to  health  services,  to  increase 
domestic and international financing and to deal with 
insecticide resistance in Africa.
Ms. Strasser-King (Sierra Leone): It is my singular 
honour and pleasure to deliver this statement on behalf 
of the Group of African States. I wish to align myself 
with  the  statement  just  made  by  the  representative  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
This  debate  marks  the  successful  culmination  of 
Africa Week 2015, which has truly raised the profile of 
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) 
here  at  the  United  Nations  at  a  very  critical  juncture 
when  Member  States  are  preparing  to  implement  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  The  African  Group  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  effort  he  has  put  into 
compiling  his  reports  under  the  agenda  items  under 
discussion today, and for his continued leadership and 
commitment to placing Africa’s agenda at the heart of 
the United Nations system.
This  year,  2015,  is  truly  special  for  the  world  in 
general  and  for  Africa  in  particular  in  terms  of  its 
relevance  to  the  NEPAD  agenda.  The  United  Nations 
has  been  celebrating  its  seventieth  anniversary.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  was  recently  adopted 
as the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
was  adopted  as  the  way  forward  in  financing  for 
development, and there are high hopes for a far-reaching 
agreement  on  climate  change  in  Paris  in  December. 
In  addition,  2015  is  also  a  pivotal  year  for  Africa’s 
development  with  the  adoption  of  the  African  Union 
Agenda 2063, the long-term vision for the continent’s 
transformative  development  in  this  century,  and  its 
First Ten-Year Implementation Plan, and ultimately the 
implementation of those Agendas.
15-31804
3/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
the 
In  the  same  vein,  monitoring  and  accountability 
remain  crucial  cornerstones  of 
successful 
implementation  of  both  Agendas.  The  African 
Group  underlines  the  valuable  contribution  of  the 
United  Nations  monitoring  mechanism  to  review  the 
implementation  of  the  commitments  made  towards 
Africa’s  development,  established  under  General 
Assembly  resolution  66/293,  and  believes  that  the 
mechanism  should  continue  to  provide  its  valuable 
inputs to the Economic and Social Council’s high-level 
political  forum  as  part  of  the  global  monitoring  and 
accountability  framework  for  Agenda  2030,  as  well 
as  to  the  efforts  to  support  the  implementation  of  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063.
Moreover, in June 2015 the African Union Summit 
adopted the Framework for a Renewed United Nations/
African Union Partnership on Africa’s Integration and 
Development Agendas (PAIDA) 2017-2027, which will 
succeed  the  Ten-Year  Capacity-Building  Programme 
for the African Union. That adoption will constitute an 
important  milestone  in  promoting  closer  partnership 
between 
two  organizations.  An  enhanced 
partnership is crucial for advancing the implementation 
of  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063  and  the  United 
Nations 2030 Agenda.
the 
In  that  vein,  the  African  Group  underscores  the 
need for an adequate, regular, and dedicated allocation 
of  resources  from  the  regular  budget  of  the  United 
Nations  to  be  approved  by  the  General  Assembly  to 
support  the  effective  implementation  of  PAIDA.  The 
African Group attaches great importance to that matter 
and  will  continue  to  pursue  it  in  the  coming  months. 
In  that  regard  the  African  Group  fully  endorses  and 
applauds  the  choice  of  the  theme  for  the  seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
NEPAD  remains  committed  to  facilitating  and 
implementing  Africa’s  priority  programmes  and  to 
consolidating the positive steps already taken towards 
continental  transformation.  The  African  Group  notes 
with  great  satisfaction  that  agriculture  remains  at  the 
centre  of  Africa’s  development  agenda.  Agriculture 
forms  a  significant  portion  of  the  economies  of  all 
African  countries  and  has  the  potential  to  contribute 
towards  meeting  the  major  continental  priorities, 
including  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger, 
boosting intra-Africa trade and investments, supporting 
rapid  industrialization  and  economic  diversification, 
sustainable  resource  and  environment  management, 
and creating jobs for the thousands of youth, as well as 
to improve livelihoods.
During  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  welcomed  and  celebrated  the  tenth 
anniversary of the implementation of the Comprehensive 
Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP). 
In 2014, at the peak of the commemoration of the Africa 
Year of Agriculture, we also celebrated the rekindling 
of  CAADP  through  the  adoption  of  the  Malabo 
Declaration  on  Accelerated  Agricultural  Growth  and 
Transformation  for  Shared  Prosperity  and  Improved 
Livelihoods.
The main thrust of the Malabo Declaration is the 
undertaking  by  the  African  Governments  to  sustain 
the  momentum  of  CAADP  for  the  next  decade.  That 
includes increasing financial investment in agriculture 
through  domestic  resource  mobilization  and 
the 
allocation  of  10  per  cent  of  public  expenditure  to  the 
sector; ending hunger and halving poverty by the year 
2025  through  inclusive  agricultural  growth;  ensuring 
a  growth  of  the  sector  of  6  per  cent  per  annum; 
boosting  intra-Africa  trade;  enhancing  resilience  and 
reducing  climate  vulnerability;  as  well  as  fostering 
mutual accountability. We therefore wish to underscore 
the 
international 
cooperation in attaining the CAADP objectives.
importance  of  partnerships  and 
Infrastructure  development  continues  to  be  a  key 
priority  for  Africa,  and  NEPAD  is  playing  a  pivotal 
role  through  the  implementation  of  the  Programme 
for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa  (PIDA).  We 
duly  note  the  efforts  undertaken  since  October  2013, 
including  efforts  to  secure  funds  to  implement  16 
infrastructure pilot projects identified as quick wins for 
financing and implementation. We welcome the Dakar 
Summit,  held  in  June  2014,  which  adopted  the  Dakar 
Agenda  for  Action,  for  financing  those  infrastructure 
pilot projects. We note the major hurdles in financing 
the implementation of PIDA projects. We therefore call 
for the mobilization of resources from all sources, both 
public and private.
More than a decade ago the African Heads of State 
and Government established the African Peer Review 
Mechanism  (APRM),  NEPAD’s  flagship  governance 
programme, which aims at promoting good governance 
across  the  continent.  Through  this  scheme,  African 
countries  have  resolved  to  adopt  additional  measures 
to  fight  corruption  and  to  promote  good  governance, 
transparency and accountability, especially in the field 
4/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
of  natural  resources.  The  African  Union  is  working 
hard  to  encourage  all  African  member  States  to  join 
the  growing  number  of  African  countries  that  have 
voluntarily  acceded  to  the  APRM,  currently  36,  of 
which 18 have been peer-reviewed. As member States, 
we  encourage  the  APRM  to  seek  ways  to  have  more 
countries graduate, as in the cases of Chad and Senegal.
The African Group thanks the Secretary-General for 
his report entitled “Causes of conflict and the promotion 
of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa” 
(A/70/176).  We  note  the  growing  linkages  between 
political,  social  and  economic  exclusion  and  violent 
conflict. As a continent we believe that arresting this 
trend will require inclusive, people-centred approaches 
in the promotion of peace, security and socioeconomic 
development,  as  emphasized  in  the  African  Union 
Agenda  2063  and  its  First  Ten-Year  Implementation 
Plan. Africa is committed to addressing the root causes 
of  conflicts  and  preventing  the  outbreak  of  armed 
conflicts,  including  through  the  African  Peace  and 
Security Architecture.
As  has  been  stated,  Africa  strongly  believes  that 
there  can  be  no  lasting  security  without  inclusive 
development.  By  the  same  token,  peace  and  security 
are indispensable factors and drivers of development. It 
is imperative, in this regard, to encourage all partners, 
including  the  United  Nations  system,  to  support 
the  efforts  of  African  countries  in  carrying  out  the 
African Union’s Silencing the Guns by 2020 initiative, 
as  envisioned  by  the  leaders  of  the  African  Union 
in  the  African  Union’s  fiftieth  anniversary  solemn 
declaration.  Moreover,  the  inclusion  of  peace  and 
security as mandates of the African Union in the 2030 
Agenda is also a source of satisfaction for the African 
Group. 
The African Group underscores the importance of 
the long-standing and exemplary partnership extended 
by  the  United  Nations  to  Africa,  notably  through 
support  for  the  establishment  and  operationalization 
of the African Union Peace and Security Architecture, 
including  cooperation  between  the  African  Union 
Peace  and  Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations 
Security  Council,  as  well  as  for  the  African  Standby 
Force,  which  is  about  to  become  operational,  and 
the  continued  support  to  the  APRM.  In  this  regard, 
the  African  Group  welcomes  the  emphasis  that  the 
report  places  on  the  strengthening  of  institutional 
cooperation  with  the  African  Union  and  its  regional 
economic  communities  and  on  conflict  prevention, 
peacekeeping  and  conflict  management,  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  and  recovery,  sustainable  economic 
growth and sustainable development, human rights and 
humanitarian  affairs,  rule  of  law  and  administration 
justice,  and  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
of 
reintegration.  The  African  Group  supports 
the 
recommendations in the report.
Malaria remains a serious health concern for Africa. 
It  is  undoubtedly  among  the  issues  that  will  require 
continued  attention  even  beyond  the  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It  is  of  great 
concern that this disease, which is entirely preventable 
and  treatable,  should  continue  to  kill  thousands  of 
people, especially children, on the African continent. We 
welcome the continued commitment of the international 
community to eradicating malaria and other diseases, 
as outlined in Goal 3 of the Sustainable Development 
Goals. We also welcome the declaration adopted by the 
2013 special summit meeting of the African Union on 
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, which reaffirmed 
the commitment of African Governments to accelerate 
the implementation of existing frameworks, including 
the Abuja Declaration and Plan of Action on Roll Back 
Malaria  in  Africa.  We  note  with  great  concern  that 
the funding to fight malaria is far below that required 
to  reach  the  universal  coverage  of  interventions.  We 
therefore  call  upon  developed  countries  and  other 
partners to fulfil all the commitments made with a view 
to eradicating this scourge.
With  the  support  of  the  international  community, 
the Ebola virus disease in West Africa is now largely 
under  control.  I  should  like  to  acknowledge  at  this 
juncture the role of the Secretary-General in leading the 
fight and to thank him for his efforts. However, there 
is an urgent need to help African countries, especially 
those most affected by the virus, improve their health 
systems  and  build  core  capacity  to  enhance  access  to 
water, sanitation and health services in order to avoid 
a  similar  situation  in  the  future.  The  African  Group 
considers  that  the  Ebola  outbreak  is  another  wake-up 
call and that business as usual should not prevail going 
forward,  as  we  implement  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. The needs of the most vulnerable must get due 
attention, and adequate means of implementation must 
be provided in the post-2015 development agenda in a 
manner that is commensurate with the huge challenges.
Let  me  conclude  by  underscoring  further  the 
importance  of  fulfilling  the  commitments  made  to 
Africa, including those relating to official development 
15-31804
5/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
assistance  (ODA).  In  Addis  Ababa  in  July  this  year, 
ODA providers reaffirmed commitments to achieving 
the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  as 
ODA for developing countries and the target of 0.15 to 
0.20 per cent of gross national income as ODA for least 
developed countries. We therefore call on development 
partners  to  fulfil  their  promises  and  commitments  in 
the  spirit  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Group  of 
Eight Gleneagles Summit and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda. Their doing so will go a long way, not only in 
terms  of  restoring  trust  and  building  confidence,  but 
also of fostering mutual respect in global partnerships.
Mr.  Ismail  (Brunei  Darussalam):  I  have  the 
honour to address the General Assembly on behalf of 
the 10 States members of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), namely, Brunei Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the  Philippines, 
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam.
At the outset I should like to express my heartfelt 
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  the  seventieth 
session. I look forward to your leadership during this 
important session as we address a wide range of global 
challenges.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  on  the  agenda 
items we are discussing today. 
ASEAN  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
earlier  by the representative of South Africa on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China on these agenda items.
Africa is a continent of opportunities and challenges, 
of  triumphs  and  tribulations,  whose  commitment  to 
development despite those challenges is an inspiration 
to  us  all.  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  its 
friendship  and  cooperation  with  Africa.  We  see 
potential in our collaboration and we strive to make it 
a success for the benefit of both regions. ASEAN and 
Africa  share  the  same  aspiration  for  the  development 
of  our  respective  regions.  We  therefore  reaffirm  our 
commitment to continuing to strengthen our cooperation 
with Africa through the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  New  Asian-African 
Strategic Partnership (NAASP).
The  challenges  that  the  African  countries  have 
been  facing  are  numerous.  Despite  economic  crises, 
political upheavals, and natural disasters, to name but 
a few of the setbacks, Africa has proved to be resilient. 
ASEAN  sees  this  strength  and  continues  to  engage 
Africa  through  NEPAD  to  address  areas  of  mutual 
concern  and  interest,  such  as  poverty  eradication, 
gender equality, infrastructure, agriculture, health and 
education.
ASEAN  welcomes 
the  valuable  contributions 
made  by  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  in 
enhancing  the  performance  of  African  Governments 
in  the  areas  of  political,  economic  and  corporate 
governance and development. ASEAN believes that the 
implementation of the agreed programmes of action and 
recommendations  contained  in  the  Peer  Review  will 
significantly contribute to the development process in 
Africa.
ASEAN welcomes the United Nations constructive 
role  and  assistance  through  a  monitoring  mechanism 
that  reviews  the  implementation  of  commitments  to 
Africa’s development. Individually, ASEAN countries 
have  also  strengthened  their  relations  with  African 
Member  States.  Each  country  in  its  own  way  has 
offered capacity-building programmes and educational 
scholarships to African countries.
In April, Indonesia hosted the sixtieth anniversary 
commemoration of the 1955 Asian-African Conference, 
which  was  aimed  at  revitalizing  the  partnership 
between Asian and African countries for the purpose of 
promoting peace and prosperity. The Commemoration 
Conference 
the  general  aspirations  of 
Asian and African countries with respect to political, 
economic  and  sociocultural  cooperation  under  the 
theme  “Strengthening  South-South  Cooperation  to 
Promote World Peace and Prosperity”. The participants 
also  committed  their  countries  to  creating  a  stronger, 
more inclusive and sustainable NAASP.
reflected 
In  a  follow-up  to  the  encouraging  progress  made 
under the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the 
2030  Agenda  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
70/1) will help guide and support African countries in 
the  pursuit  of  their  respective  development  priorities. 
Africa  has  seen  its  economic  growth  accelerate,  but 
much more work lies ahead. Overall poverty rates are 
still around 48 per cent, according to the 2015 Africa 
MDG report. ASEAN shares the same view as Africa 
regarding  the  importance  of  poverty  eradication,  as 
underscored in the 2030 Agenda.
ASEAN  is  encouraged  that  the  African  Union 
adopted the transformative Agenda 2063 in January this 
year. We are confident that implementing Agenda 2063 
in  tandem  with  the  far-reaching  and  ambitious  2030 
6/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
Agenda will improve the well-being of the continent’s 
population  through  sustained  and  balanced  economic 
growth. Thus, a closer economic engagement between 
ASEAN  and  Africa  will  not  only  help  to  solidify 
relations  between  the  continents  but  also  has  the 
potential to boost trade. In this regard ASEAN endorses 
the Secretary-General’s call to the global community to 
contribute to Africa’s development. ASEAN will play 
its  part  in  sharing  and  exchanging  information  and 
experiences on development-related issues.
We  note  that  pandemic  disease  is  one  of  the 
challenges  that  can  affect  collective  progress  in  the 
African  continent.  A  stark  example  is  the  Ebola 
disease outbreak that afflicted some African countries. 
Hence,  we  commend  the  valuable  role  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO) 
in  establishing  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola 
Emergency  Response  to  address  the  Ebola  outbreak. 
Some countries in sub-Saharan Africa are still afflicted 
by malaria. Globally, 80 per cent of the cases of malaria 
and 80 per cent of deaths from malaria in 2015 are found 
there.  Both  ASEAN  and  African  countries  have  been 
affected by this disease. ASEAN has been successful in 
combating  malaria  and  has  supported  Africa’s  efforts 
to address this disease and HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis.
Relations between ASEAN and Africa continue to 
be enhanced through solidarity, cooperation and mutual 
respect.  ASEAN  strongly  supports  the  continued 
implementation  of  NEPAD  as  the  African  Union’s 
programme  for  poverty  eradication,  socioeconomic 
development  and  growth,  and  the  framework  for 
engagement with Africa.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Poulsen (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member States.
The Africa-European Union partnership is guided 
by  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  unity  of  Africa, 
the  interdependence  between  Africa  and  Europe,  and 
shared values and interests, as well as joint ownership 
and  responsibilities.  At  the  Africa-European  Union 
Summit  held  in  April  2014  in  Brussels,  EU  and 
African leaders committed to consulting and working 
in  partnership  to  define  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, sharing the same level of ambition and broadly 
similar  priorities  for  the  agenda  —  an  integrated  and 
balanced approach to the three dimensions of sustainable 
development,  inclusion  of  governance,  peace  and 
security  aspects,  a  global  partnership  mobilizing  all 
means  of  implementation,  and  credible  monitoring, 
follow-up and review mechanisms. I believe that this is 
well reflected in the final outcome.
We  welcome  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda,  which  will  enable  us  to  tackle  the 
interlinked challenges of our world today. We very much 
welcome the fact that Africa played an important role 
in shaping the 2030 Agenda, both through the Common 
African  Position  on 
the  post-2015  Development 
Agenda, which fed into the negotiations and played an 
influential role, and through key African actors. These 
included,  to  mention  a  few,  Amina  Mohammed,  the 
Special  Adviser  on  Post-2015  Development  Planning; 
Ambassador  Kamau, 
the  Open 
Working  Group;  and  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  then  President 
of the General Assembly, as well as the African Union, 
the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  the 
African Development Bank, South Africa representing 
the Group of 77, and others.
the  Co-Chair  of 
that 
the 
Looking  ahead,  we  recognize 
true 
challenge  lies  in  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda.  The  EU  and  its  member  States  will  do  their 
part  and  are  committed  to  the  Africa-EU  partnership 
and  to  cooperating,  as  agreed  in  the  road  map  of  the 
2014 Africa-EU Summit, with a view to ensuring that 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and of Agenda 
2063  will  be  complementary,  consistent  and  mutually 
supportive.
The EU recognizes the essential role played by the 
African  Union  and  its  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  in  the  definition  of  continental  policy 
frameworks  and  programmes  that  respect  in  full  the 
notions  of  subsidiarity  and  ownership.  In  particular, 
Agenda  2063  and  its  10-year  implementation  plan 
provide a comprehensive, long-term strategic vision for 
Africa’s  development.  Our  aim  is  to  support  Africa’s 
political  and  economic  integration  through  enhanced 
trade, a strengthened political partnership and increased 
cooperation,  and  to  support  institutional  capacity-
building at the national, regional and continental levels. 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
remain  the  biggest  trading  and  development  partners 
of  Africa,  and  we  stand  ready  to  continue  supporting 
key  pan-African  programmes  such  as  the  Programme 
15-31804
7/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa  and  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme, in addition to our wide range of activities 
at the national and regional levels.
Cooperation  on  migration 
is  another  area. 
The  upcoming  Valetta  Summit  is  expected  to  deal 
comprehensively with the issue of migration, including 
its  development  aspects.  The  Summit  is  expected  to 
agree on a trust fund amounting to €1.8 billion from the 
EU  budget  and  the  EU  Development  Fund  to  address 
the  root  causes  of  irregular  migration  and  displaced 
persons in Africa.
in 
The  promotion  of  democratic  and  transparent 
systems of government, rule of law, good governance, 
including  the  fight  against  corruption,  and  respect 
for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  are 
commitments  enshrined 
the  Joint  Africa-EU 
Strategy.  We  pledge  to  ensure  that  human  rights  are 
fully enjoyed by all through the elimination of all forms 
of  discrimination  against  and  exclusion  of  vulnerable 
segments  of  society.  We  welcome  African  efforts  to 
eliminate obstacles that women face in their quest for 
equal rights and opportunities. As long as women are 
treated  as  inferior  to  men  and  are  not  given  a  proper 
voice  in  politics,  peace  and  security  discussions  or 
economic affairs, Africa is losing out on the potential 
contribution  of  half  its  population  and  work  force.  In 
the  same  vein,  children  must  have  the  critical  tool  of 
perspective  that  education  provides.  It  is  therefore 
indispensable  to  ensure  that  no  children  suffer  from 
armed conflict and that all child soldiers are not only 
released  but  also  reintegrated.  The  European  Union 
stands ready to support reintegration efforts.
We  welcome  the  efforts  by  the  African  Union 
to  build  a  strong  and  credible  African  human  rights 
system and African governance architecture as ways of 
guaranteeing respect for human rights and governance 
commitments  by  all  African  States.  We  also  praise 
the progress made by the African Union in addressing 
the security challenges on the continent, both through 
Africa-led  peace  support  operations  and  through  the 
establishment  of  its  peace  and  security  architecture. 
The European Union has significantly supported these 
processes since 2004 with more than €1.6 billion, and 
we are committed to pursuing our cooperation in these 
and  other  areas  of  common  interest,  as  stated  in  the 
ambitious road map of the 2014 Africa-EU summit.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
causes  of  conflict  (A/70/176),  which  underscores  that 
in the light of the critical linkages between democratic 
governance, human rights, durable peace and sustainable 
development,  the  United  Nations  should  continue  to 
increase  synergies  between  the  African  peace  and 
security  architecture  and  the  African  governance 
architecture  in  preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking, 
peacebuilding  and  post-conflict  resolution  within  the 
framework of the Joint United Nations-African Union 
Framework for an Enhanced Partnership in Peace and 
Security.
As  underlined  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
notwithstanding  the  progress  made,  Africa  continues 
to  wrestle  with  potentially  preventable  or  treatable 
diseases  that  cause  death  and  untold  suffering  while 
simultaneously  undermining  economic  development. 
Malaria,  alongside  other  deadly  viruses  such  as 
Ebola  and  HIV,  inflicts  a  tremendous  burden  on 
Africa, particularly on women, children and the most 
vulnerable.  Africa  should  be  congratulated  on  what 
it  has  achieved  in  the  fight  against  Ebola  and  on  the 
significant  progress  that  has  been  made  in  the  global 
fight  against  malaria  in  recent  years.  Experience  has 
shown  that  prevention  can  achieve  impressive  results 
when actions are underpinned by strong and effective 
health  systems.  Combating  diseases  such  as  malaria 
through strengthened national health systems is, in our 
view, one of the most effective ways to alleviate poverty 
and  promote  equitable  and  sustainable  development. 
As  the  world’s  largest  donor  to  the  health  sector,  the 
European Union and its member States will continue to 
invest in the health work force and build capacity, so as 
to ensure equitable access to prevention, treatment and 
care  through  the  implementation  of  universal  health 
coverage.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that the European 
Union and its member States remain fully committed to 
working as partners with Africa and Africans in their 
quest for peace, democratic governance, human rights 
and sustainable development.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
supports the statement made earlier by the representative 
of South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it  is  also 
International Development Year. Last month, leaders of 
countries gathered at the United Nations development 
8/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
summit and unanimously adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), which serves 
as  a  grand  blueprint  for  international  development  in 
the coming 15 years and is of milestone significance.
This  year  has  witnessed  important  progress  in 
the  cause  of  peace  and  development  in  Africa.  The 
African  Union  Summit  adopted  its  Agenda  2063  and 
its  First  Ten-Year  Implementation  Plan,  which  sets 
new  targets  for  peace  and  development  in  Africa. 
African development is entering a new stage. Peace and 
development  in  Africa  will  be  of  critical  importance 
to  the  lasting  peace  and  common  prosperity  of  the 
world.  The  international  community  should  attach 
great  importance  to  cooperation  with  Africa  from  a 
strategic  perspective,  pay  close  attention  to  Africa 
and increase input in African countries in accordance 
with the provisions of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  Agenda  2063  and  with  a  view  to 
making  greater  progress  in  implementing  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
First,  we  should  support  Africa’s  development, 
as  that  is  the  key  to  implementing  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  The 
international 
community  should  give  full  consideration  to  Africa’s 
development  needs  and  unique  challenges  and  attach 
major  importance  to  eliminating  poverty  and  hunger, 
promoting  public  health  and  resolving  other  issues 
affecting people’s livelihood in Africa. In conjunction 
with  Africa’s  development  in  priority  areas  such 
industrializing  and 
as  modernizing  agriculture, 
infrastructure-building,  efforts 
should  be  made 
to  vigorously  strengthen  production  capabilities, 
cooperation  and  means  of  communication  between 
regions.  We  should  work  in  concert  to  respond  to 
challenges such as climate change, energy security and 
sluggish economic growth so as to promote coordinated 
economic,  social  and  environmental  development  in 
Africa. We should abide by the principle of diversity in 
following development models and give Africa sufficient 
policy  space  in  following  up  and  implementing  the 
development  agenda.  We  should  respect  the  principle 
of ownership by African countries.
Secondly, to optimize its development partnership, 
international  community  should  honour 
its 
the 
commitment  to  Africa,  implement  the  outcome  of 
the 
third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development  and  increase  assistance  to  Africa. 
The  developed  countries  should  provide  timely  and 
sufficient official development assistance and provide 
Africa with more financial and technological resources 
and  support  for  capacity-building  without  attaching 
any political conditions. 
While  fully  utilizing  North-South  cooperation  as 
the main type of partnership, developing countries are 
encouraged  to  deepen  South-South  cooperation  with 
due respect for the principles of equality, mutual trust, 
mutual benefit, win-win cooperation, unity and mutual 
help, to strengthen exchanges of experience and to create 
a  flagship  cooperation  platform  that  will  advance  the 
development of African and other developing countries 
through higher-level, larger-scope activities covering a 
broader range of areas.
financial, 
Thirdly, to improve Africa’s development environment, 
countries  should  strengthen  macroeconomic  policy 
coordination  and  adopt  active 
trade, 
investment  and  debt  measures  to  promote  Africa’s 
development. To that end, it is necessary to strengthen 
global  economic  governance,  maintain  a  free,  open 
and  non-discriminatory  multilateral  trading  system, 
accelerate 
financial 
institutions  and 
representation  of 
developing countries and give them a stronger voice in 
those institutions. It is also necessary to fully explore the 
United  Nations  integrated  planning  and  coordinating 
role and to harness the respective strengths of agencies 
in the United Nations system so as to increase support 
for Africa.
international 
the 
reform  of 
increase 
the 
is 
the  precondition 
Fourthly,  as  peace 
for 
development  and  as  stability  provides  a  safeguard 
for  development,  the  international  community  should 
uphold  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and work actively to promote peace 
and  negotiation  in  African  countries,  including  the 
resolution  of  differences  through  peaceful  means,  on 
the basis of full respect for sovereignty, independence 
and territorial integrity. The will of African countries 
must  be  fully  respected  and  the  resolution  of  African 
problems  by  Africans  in  the  African  way  must  be 
supported. At the same time, there is a need to reinforce 
coordination  and  cooperation  with  the  African  Union 
and  African  regional  organizations  and  to  effectively 
help  Africa  strengthen  the  building  of  collective 
security mechanisms.
China and Africa have consistently faced difficulties 
together  and  have  formed  a  community  of  interests 
united by a common platform. Strengthening unity and 
cooperation  with  African  countries  has  consistently 
15-31804
9/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
been  an  important  pillar  of  China’s  foreign  policy.  In 
2013, on his first visit to Africa, President Xi Jinping 
suggested  the  following  as  underlying  principles  of 
our  cooperation:  sincerity,  real  results,  affinity,  good 
faith  and  the  right  approach  to  justice  and  interests. 
The central aim is to help Africa achieve independent 
and sustainable economic development and to achieve 
China’s own development in what amounts to win-win 
cooperation and common development.
emphasized 
cooperation 
During  his  visit  to  Africa  in  May  2014,  Premier 
Li  Keqiang  put  forward  the  4-6-1  framework  for 
Sino-African 
the 
following four principles: treating each other as equals, 
strengthening unity and mutual trust, seeking inclusive 
development,  and  promoting  innovative  cooperation. 
The  aim  is  to  advance  cooperation  in  six  areas: 
industry, finance, poverty reduction, protection of the 
environment, people-to-people and cultural exchanges, 
and  peace  and  security.  Through 
important 
platform  of  the  Forum  on  China-Africa  Cooperation, 
China and Africa will work to upgrade their pragmatic 
cooperation.
and 
the 
While attending the summits at the United Nations 
last  month,  President  Xi  Jinping  expounded  China’s 
policy  regarding  the  international  order  and  a  shared 
future for mankind. He announced a series of important 
measures,  including  establishing  the  China-United 
Nations  fund  for  peace  and  development  and  a  fund 
for  assisting  South-South  cooperation, 
increasing 
investment in the least developed countries, cancelling 
the debt owed on intergovernmental interest-free loans 
for  some  countries  in  special  circumstances  before 
the  end  of  2015,  and  assisting  developing  countries 
with  100  projects  in  each  of  the  areas  of  poverty 
reduction,  agricultural  cooperation,  trade  facilitation, 
environmental  protection, 
climate 
change,  medical  facilities  and  education  training. 
Those  measures  will  serve  to  advance  global  peace 
and  development  and  lead  to  strengthened  bonds  of 
unity  and  cooperation  between  China  and  developing 
countries, including those of Africa.
response 
to 
This  year  marks  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
founding  of  the  Forum  on  China-Africa  Cooperation. 
Over the past 15 years pragmatic cooperation between 
China  and  Africa  has  developed  in  leaps  and  bounds 
and  has  brought  real  benefits  to  the  people  of  China 
and  Africa.  According  to  statistics,  in  2014  China-
Africa  trade  exceeded  $220  billion  and  investment 
in  Africa  amounted 
than  $30  billion, 
to  more 
representing a 22-fold increase and a 60-fold increase 
respectively  over  the  year  2000,  when  the  Forum  on 
China-Africa  Cooperation  was  founded.  We  focus  on 
enhancing  capabilities  in  infrastructure-building  and 
manufacturing in Africa and helping African countries 
to eliminate development bottlenecks and to pursue a 
self-determined development path.
We  focus  on  helping  Africa  build  and  improve 
public health systems. We provided the affected African 
countries  with  assistance  totalling  $120  million  in 
connection with the Ebola epidemic and sent more than 
1,200  medical  personnel  and  experts  to  them  in  what 
was the longest, broadest and largest effort in the area 
of international public health in the history of the new 
China. 
We focus on building the China-Africa partnership 
for peace and security,. China is the permanent member 
of the Security Council that has sent the largest number 
of peacekeeping personnel to Africa.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
In December of this year, the summit of the Forum on 
China-Africa Cooperation will be held in Johannesburg. 
This will be the first time that the Forum has been held 
on the African continent, a development which is of far-
reaching significance. The summit will produce a new 
plan and blueprint for future China-Africa cooperation, 
injecting  new  impetus  into  and  effectively  advancing 
cooperation  between  China  and  Africa  for  win-win 
results and common development, and opening up new 
horizons and prospects for development.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  thank  the  President 
for convening this debate on a theme that is very dear to 
us. I also wish to welcome Mr. Ibrahim Assane Mayaki, 
Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  Planning  and 
Coordinating Agency.
Algeria  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  NEPAD  (A/70/175)  and  the  insights  it 
provides. We also wish to thank the Office of the Special 
Adviser  on  Africa  for  its  dedication  and  extremely 
valuable  work  in  enhancing  international  support  for 
Africa’s development.
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
made earlier by the representatives of South Africa and 
Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group of 77 and China 
and the Group of African States, respectively.
10/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
As indicated in the Secretary-General’s report, this 
year’s debate coincides with several global milestones 
that are of fundamental relevance to NEPAD. Algeria 
welcomes  the  recognition  in  both  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) and the 
African  Union  Agenda  2063  of  the  challenges  facing 
African  countries.  Agenda  2063  and  the  relevant 
programmes  of  NEPAD,  such  as  the  Programme 
for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa  and  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  (CAADP),  give  Africa  the  right  tools 
to  lift  itself  out  of  poverty  and  to  put  an  end  to  its 
marginalization from the globalization process.
For more than a decade now, NEPAD has placed the 
questions of peace, security, development, democracy, 
good  governance,  human 
rights  and  women’s 
empowerment at the heart of sustainable development. 
While  recognizing  the  political,  economic  and  social 
difficulties  that  have  beset  Africa’s  development  for 
decades,  NEPAD  is  also  the  expression  of  Africa’s 
willingness to establish a new partnership anchored in 
the principles of African leadership and, above all, of 
ownership.
In  spite  of  the  advances  made  in  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  —  notably  in 
promoting  gender  equality  and  empowering  women, 
improving  maternal  health,  reducing  child  mortality 
and halving extreme poverty — such progress remains 
uneven  between  regions  of 
the  world.  Progress 
in  Africa  is  hampered  by  a  variety  of  factors.  For 
example,  Africa’s  collective  actions  to  fight  poverty 
continue  to  suffer  from  the  backlash  of  a  multitude 
of  crises,  including  the  recent  Ebola  outbreak,  the 
effects of natural disasters, climate change — to which, 
incidently,Africa  contributes  the  least  —  and  volatile 
commodity prices.
Africa’s  resilience  can  and  must  be  strengthened. 
The international community can contribute greatly to 
this process, and we seize this opportunity to call on our 
partners  to  fully  support  the  African  Union’s  Agenda 
2063 and the continent-wide programmes embedded in 
NEPAD. After a decade of implementation, NEPAD, a 
programme of the African Union, has produced a number 
of encouraging results. The promotion of infrastructure 
development as a driving force for Africa’s integration 
and  development  led  to  the  adoption  in  2010  of  the 
Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa 
by the African Union Heads of State.
With  respect  to  the  implementation  of  the  project 
championed  by  Algeria  to  complete  the  trans-Sahara 
highway  and  gas  pipeline,  which  would  link  Algeria 
and Nigeria, we are pleased to confirm that the Algeria 
section  of  the  project,  which  covers  more  than  4,500 
kilometres,  will  be  completed  in  2016.  We  announce 
with equal satisfaction that, under the project to install 
fibre-optic cable linking Algeria, the Niger and Nigeria, 
the Algerian section of the network has been completed 
and is now operational.
There has also been significant progress within the 
framework  of  the  CAADP.  This  programme  aims  at 
achieving a 6 per cent growth rate in the agricultural 
sector by allocating 10 per cent of the national budget. 
Today 50 countries out of 54 have committed themselves 
to CAADP, of which 44 have already adopted a national 
agriculture investment plan. 
All  stakeholders  need  to  make  a  strong  push  in 
favour  of  Africa’s  development.  According  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of 
the Second United Nations Decade for the Eradication 
of Poverty (2008-2017) (A/70/281), income poverty in 
Africa dropped from 46 per cent in 1990 to 39 percent 
in 2011. While that can be considered an encouraging 
step towards poverty eradication, we believe that such 
a pace remains overly slow.
In this context, an enabling international environment 
resting on a revitalized global partnership is required if 
Africa is to reach a sustained pace of economic growth, 
achieve  financial  stability,  have  full  employment, 
strengthen  its  resilience  and  also  play  its  part  —  we 
should not forget that — in the world economy. Of all 
the  continents,  Africa  has  the  greatest  potential  for 
economic growth.
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  My  delegation  associates 
itself with the statements made earlier on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China and the Group of African States. 
We commend the Secretary-General for his report on 
Africa’s development (A/70/175).
Adopted in 2001 by the African leaders, the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  has 
provided  a  vision  and  an  overarching  socioeconomic 
development 
framework.  As  an  African-owned 
initiative,  the  NEPAD  programmes  in  such  areas  as 
agriculture,  infrastructure,  health  and  education  have 
registered  encouraging  results  in  reducing  poverty, 
promoting  sustainable  agriculture  and  integrating  the 
continent  into  the  global  economy.  The  African  Peer 
15-31804
11/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
Review Mechanism has also contributed to improving 
good  governance.  In  addition,  Africa  has  made 
substantial  progress  in  building  durable  peace  and 
democratic institutions.
Since the adoption of NEPAD, Africa has recorded 
an impressive economic growth of 5 per cent on average, 
making  it  the  second-fastest-growing  region.  In  2014 
Africa’s growth was 3.9 per cent despite the weak global 
economy. Most African countries, including Ethiopia, 
are on track to meet the Millennium Development Goal 
target of halving poverty. To sustain economic growth 
and  achieve  structural  transformation,  the  African 
leaders  adopted  the  2063  Agenda  and  the  First  Ten-
Year  Implementation  Plan  to  build  on  the  experience 
of  NEPAD,  integrating  all  its  initiatives.  NEPAD 
continues to be the strategic vehicle for the realization 
of an integrated, prosperous and peaceful Africa.
Malaria  is  one  of  the  major  health  challenges  for 
many  African  countries,  including  Ethiopia.  NEPAD 
has improved access to high-quality essential medicines 
and treatments for malaria. In Ethiopia, we have taken 
radical  steps  to  reverse  the  toll  of  the  disease  and 
have registered a sharp decline in the number of cases 
and  deaths.  We  have  made  this  remarkable  progress 
by  prioritizing  malaria  in  the  national  socieconomic 
development  agenda  and  the  strategic  health  plan. 
Ethiopia  has  also  demonstrated  strong  leadership 
and political commitment as the Chair of the African 
Leaders  Malaria  Alliance.  African 
leaders  have 
agreed to monitor certain indicators in their respective 
countries 
the 
necessary  action  to  control  the  disease.  Accordingly, 
progress in combating malaria is tracked every quarter 
using  a  standard  scorecard.  Furthermore,  in  January, 
during the African Union summit, a malaria elimination 
scorecard  was  launched.  As  leaders  committed  to 
eliminating malaria from the continent, we committed 
to redoubling our efforts to maintain universal access 
and reduce the toll.
to  ensure  accountability  and 
take 
Despite the progress, Africa still has a long way to 
go before there is inclusive and sustainable development 
for  all.  Peace  and  stability  must  also  be  ensured  in 
all  regions  of  the  continent.  Therefore  Africa,  with 
the  support  of  the  international  community,  needs  to 
accelerate  its  economic  and  structural  transformation 
to realize its full development potential. In this regard, 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  creates  the  right 
framework  for  enhanced  global  partnership  that  is 
aligned  with  continent-wide  priorities.  It  recognizes 
the  importance  of  addressing  the  diverse  needs  and 
challenges faced by countries in special situations, in 
particular  African  countries.  The  Addis  Agenda  also 
reaffirms the importance of supporting NEPAD and the 
2063 Agenda.
We  call  on  our  development  partners,  including 
the United Nations system, to further strengthen their 
financial  and  technical  support  to  the  programmes 
of  NEPAD  so  that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development can be implemented in Africa as a subset 
of the 2063 Agenda.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): The Kingdom of Thailand 
aligns itself with the statements delivered earlier by the 
representative of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China and by the Permanent Representative 
of Brunei Darussalam on behalf of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations.
We 
thank 
for 
the 
his 
comprehensive report on progress in implementing the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (A/70/175) 
and other reports prepared for this meeting.
Secretary-General 
Africa  is  rising,  full  of  promise.  That  continent, 
full  of  hope,  has  become  one  of  the  fastest-growing 
regions in the world and is moving forward in the right 
direction, guided by strong leadership and assisted by 
regional and international organizations. We commend 
the  constructive  roles  of  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic Community of West African States and other 
regional organizations, as well as the United Nations, 
in building on past gains and laying a solid foundation 
for the continent’s future.
The  Kingdom  of  Thailand  welcomes  the  First 
Ten-Year  Implementation  Plan  for  the  African  Union 
Agenda 2063 as it charts Africa’s trajectory for the next 
10 years on its path towards an integrated, prosperous 
and  peaceful  continent  in  2063.  Given  the  similarity 
of the development paths of the Kingdom of Thailand 
and  our  African  friends,  for  many  decades  we  have 
been  fostering  development  cooperation  with  them  in 
areas  of  common  interest,  areas  such  as  sustainable 
agriculture,  public  health,  education  and  human 
resources development. 
This partnership has brought added value to both 
our  societies  and  peoples.  It  has  convinced  us  that 
the  common  goals  of  sustainable  development  can  be 
achieved  together  through  South-South  cooperation, 
and  in  particular  through  exchanging  experiences 
12/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
and  best  practices,  consultation,  and  the  coordination 
of  policies  for  mutual  benefit.  National  ownership  is 
pivotal for success and should therefore continue to be 
a principle that guides the work of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development. In this light, our cooperation 
programme with African countries has been based on a 
demand-driven approach and tailored to ensure that our 
support meets the real needs of African peoples and is 
in line with Agenda 2063.
Sustainable growth and development starts with a 
healthy population. The unprecedented outbreak of the 
Ebola virus was a huge challenge to the Governments 
in the affected area and to the international community, 
as  they  battled  to  bring  the  epidemic  under  control 
and  to  make  sure  that  Africa’s  development  will  not 
be interrupted. The lessons learned from the outbreak 
should be put to good use in other health crises, now 
and in the future.
Regarding  malaria  and  other  pandemics,  Thailand 
is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  few  countries  that  have 
continuously  contributed  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  We  have  pledged 
$4.5 million to the Global Fund for the period 2014-2016. 
We strongly support and advocate a more sustainable, 
resilient,  affordable  and  healthy  public  health-care 
system  with  special  emphasis  on  equal  access  to 
treatment  and  medication  without  discrimination.  For 
this reason, the Kingdom put in place a universal health-
care scheme in 2001, which has functioned well since 
that date. We also are currently implementing a national 
strategic  plan  for  malaria  control  and  elimination  for 
the period 2011-2016, which has an effective monitoring 
and  evaluation  system  for  early  malaria  detection. 
Our  continued  efforts  have  resulted  in  a  significant 
downward trend in the number of malaria cases and the 
mortality rate. We stand ready to share our experiences 
and lessons learned in this respect.
Recognizing  the  need  for  a  strong  and  unified 
voice on the global common agenda, Asian and African 
countries celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of the Asia-
Africa Conference in Indonesia in April this year. With 
this renewal of the spirit of Bandung, we look forward 
to  strengthening  and  broadening  our  cooperation  and 
to sharing more of our expertise and best practices with 
our African partners, so that our two continents, while 
geographically  far  apart,  may  become  closer  through 
cooperation.
Despite  the  considerable  development  progress 
achieved  over  the  years,  there  are  still  a  number  of 
persistent and emerging challenges for Africa, as there 
are  for  Thailand  and  much  of  Asia.  Among  the  more 
urgent tasks are eradicating poverty and ensuring equal 
social and economic opportunities for all. We must act 
together  lest  the  persistence  of  these  challenges  undo 
past  achievements  or  thwart  future  prospects.  As 
emphasized  by  our  leaders  in  the  general  debate  last 
month, sustainable development can never be achieved 
without  durable  peace  and  security.  Therefore  it  is 
unfortunate  that  many  countries  in  Africa  still  suffer 
from the predations of armed and terrorist groups.
The  Kingdom  of  Thailand  supports  a  holistic 
approach  to  the  prevention  of  conflicts  and  the 
promotion  and 
implementation  of  peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding 
reconstruction 
and 
activities. In that spirit, the Kingdom has contributed, 
alongside many nations, to collective efforts to promote 
peace  and  security  through  its  active  participation  in 
the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in 
Darfur and the United Nations Mission in Liberia.
post-conflict 
At the same time, we believe that the United Nations 
and  Member  States  must  do  more  to  ensure  political 
and social inclusiveness and respect for human rights 
and for the rights to development, sovereign equality, 
tolerance, good governance and the rule of law through 
constructive engagement and dialogue based on mutual 
respect.  Towards  that  end,  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand 
has  presented 
its  candidature  for  non-permanent 
membership of the Security Council for 2017-2018. In 
a  world  of  such  great  political,  economic,  and  social 
diversity,  we  pledge  to  be  a  bridge-builder  among 
members with differing views and stances.
To conclude, let me reiterate that the Kingdom of 
Thailand  places  sustainable  development  at  the  heart 
of its national agenda and its foreign policy, based on 
His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol’s  Sufficiency  Economy 
philosophy.  We  are  proud  of  our  long  track  record  of 
development  cooperation  with  Africa.  We  stand  as 
ready  as  ever  to  strengthen  our  partnership  with  our 
African sisters and brothers in the decades to come.
Mr. Winid (Poland): Let me thank the President for 
convening this open debate, which is the culmination of 
the Africa Week celebrations. 
We associate ourselves with the statement delivered 
earlier by the observer of the European Union.
15-31804
13/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
During  the  last  couple  of  days,  we  have  had  the 
opportunity  to  discuss  many  aspects  of  Africa’s 
development, as well as its peace and security challenges. 
On  this  occasion,  let  me  thank  the  Secretary-General 
and the Special Adviser on Africa for the two reports 
before us (A/70/175 and A/70/176), which constitute a 
very good basis for our debate today.
Poland has contributed to the development of many 
African countries from the beginning of their existence. 
In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s we not only supported 
decolonization  politically,  but  also  assisted  many 
African  countries  in  building  their  State  institutions, 
education  systems,  economies,  and  so  on.  Thousands 
of  African  students  came  to  Poland,  thanks  to  our 
scholarship programmes. Many of them assumed very 
important  positions  after  returning  to  their  countries, 
becoming political and economic leaders. The former 
President of Mali and former Chairman of the African 
Union  Commission,  Alpha  Oumar  Konaré,  and  the 
former  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Health  of 
Namibia, Libertina Amathila, are only a few examples. 
The  world  has  changed  significantly  since  then,  but 
Poland  remains  committed  to  working  in  partnership 
with African countries in contributing to the continent’s 
development.
We appreciate the efforts by African countries and 
regional  economic  organizations  aimed  at  promoting 
integration  and  economic  and  human  development  in 
the continent. The inclusion of all of the priorities of the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) in 
the African Union Agenda 2063, adopted at the African 
Union Summit this year, and the adoption of the 10-year 
strategic  plan  confirm  a  strong  and  unified  political 
will  on  the  part  of  the  continent’s  leaders  to  base  the 
development of Africa on its economic integration.
The NEPAD initiatives in the areas of infrastructure, 
energy,  agriculture,  education,  health,  science  and 
technology  and  women’s  empowerment  are  very 
ambitious.  Africa  has  already  achieved  successes  in 
some  of  those  fields.  Nevertheless,  in  order  to  secure 
the  full  implementation  of  the  plan,  more  financial 
resources  have 
to  be  mobilized,  not  only  from 
international development partners, but also from local 
Governments.
Poland  is  an  active  and  responsible  development 
partner, as it currently supports education, sustainable 
agriculture and environmental sectors in Africa. Those 
areas will remain the priorities of our cooperation with 
the African continent under the new Polish Multi-annual 
Development Cooperation Programme for 2016-2020.
We  also  believe  that  in  order  to  maintain  a  rapid 
pace of growth, Africa needs foreign direct investments. 
Poland actively contributes to that process, supporting 
the  development  of  modern  agriculture  and  fisheries 
through  our  technology  transfers  to  several  African 
countries.  We  are  very  glad  that  we  can  cooperate  in 
those fields with our partners and friends from Angola, 
Ethiopia, Nigeria, Tanzania, Togo and some others. We 
also support the joint economic initiatives of Polish and 
African  companies  through  the  so-called  Go  Africa 
programme of the Polish Government, which helps to 
build  business  partnerships  and  encourages  trade  and 
people-to-people contacts.
While  Africa  has  made  undeniable  progress  in 
recent years in the areas of core shared values, building 
democratic  governance,  encouraging  pluralism  and 
strengthening the roles of parliaments and civil society, 
some  challenges  still  remain  to  be  met.  We  support 
the  vision  expressed  in  the  African  Union’s  shared-
value  agenda,  which  underscores  the  importance  of 
democratic governance for stability and durable peace.
We  also  believe  that  no  lasting  peace  can  be 
achieved without the rule of law and respect for basic 
human  rights  and  the  principles  of  transparency, 
accountability  and  popular  participation.  When  those 
conditions are lacking, even relatively strong economic 
growth  will  not  reduce  tensions  stemming  from  the 
frustrations of those who are not able to participate in 
the benefits of growth, owing to social, racial, ethnic or 
gender exclusions.
Last, but not least, we believe in a strong role for 
women  in  reaching  the  objectives  of  the  long-term 
African development strategies. That is why we strongly 
commend the decision of the African Union’s Assembly 
to declare 2015 the Year of Women’s Empowerment and 
Development towards Africa’s Agenda 2063.
Mr.  Lambertini  (Italy):  This  year  is  going  to 
be,  as  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  put  it,  “the 
seminal  year”  for  development  in  Africa.  Much  was 
accomplished with the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). Today we look forward to the ambitious new 
Goals for truly sustainable development to be achieved 
by 2030. 
The thirteenth consolidated report of the Secretary-
General (A/70/175) underlines the progress that African 
14/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
countries have made on all of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  priorities.  That  confirms  the 
encouraging steps forward made by Africa towards the 
expansion of its capabilities. The adoption this year by 
the  African  Union  of  Agenda  2063  and  its  First  Ten-
Year Implementation Plan provides momentum for the 
pursuit of a more effective partnership with Africa and 
development partners.
Since the age of the Roman Empire, Italy has had the 
historical privilege of being a bridge between Europe 
and Africa. My country has always been a traditional 
partner  of  Africa,  thanks  to  geography  and  cultural 
vocation.  The  partnership  that  we  have  been  forging 
now needs to maintain the momentum on development 
and  reach  the  shared  visions,  going  beyond  mere  aid 
and solidarity.
Italy  knows  what  solidarity  is  all  about.  Our 
solidarity is confirmed every day as we save the lives 
of thousands of migrants and refugees coming from the 
north shore of Africa. We ensure the provision of first 
aid, assist them and give them hope. But we need to do 
more by addressing the root causes that force migrants 
to leave their families and their homelands.
its 
by 
strengthening 
Being aware of its moral responsibility, my country 
is  willing  to  play  its  part.  The  Italian  Government 
is  committed  to  increasing  its  official  development 
assistance 
international 
development  cooperation  and  becoming  a  top  donor 
among  the  Group  of  Seven  nations.  Furthermore,  the 
Italian  Government  is  devoting  attention  to  a  special 
category  of  developing  countries.  Last  June,  we 
hosted  at  the  Expo  in  Milan  a  successful  Ministerial 
Meeting of African Least Developed Countries, which 
adopted  the  Milan  Charter  for  fostering  sustainable 
agriculture, granting access to food for all and changing 
unsustainable  consumption  patterns  by  avoiding  food 
waste.
This  very  day  at  Expo  we  are  hosting, 
in 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations,  a  ministerial 
meeting  for  small  island  developing  States  with  a 
view  to  assessing  the  role  of  finance  and  innovation 
in  stimulating  investment  in  agricultural  production 
and  the  agrifood  sector,  with  the  overarching  goal  of 
achieving  food  security  and  inclusive  growth.  Today 
we had the high privilege of hosting Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  to  celebrate  World  Food  Day  at  Expo 
Milano.  That  was  very  important  for  all  of  us.  We 
will spare no effort to do our part in helping Africa to 
diversify its economy and transform its huge potential 
into reality as soon as possible.
In  a  rapidly  changing  world,  the  challenge  of 
achieving  development  takes  on  a  new  dimension. 
Developing countries need to share in and benefit more 
from  the  experience  of  developed  countries,  so  that 
together they can build a lasting economic pathway and 
social  resiliance.  Let  us  consider  industrial  policies, 
the  health  system,  education  and  access  to  food  and 
water for all. We can offer our experience to stimulate 
investment and growth in the private sector.
The  Italian  economic  model  and  social  structure, 
as is perhaps known, are based on small and medium-
sized  enterprises  and  cooperatives.  An  extensive 
system  of  credit  institutions  is  closely  interconnected 
with small and medium-sized enterprises and specific 
local  businesses.  Those  enterprises  seek  benefits 
for  their  communities  and  not  just  a  return  for  their 
shareholders.  They  therefore  prove  to  be  particularly 
suited 
development. 
Furthermore, we have been promoting the engagement 
of our larger companies in building partnerships with 
local authorities in communities in Africa. That model 
can  be  of  great  help  in  responding  to  infrastructure 
needs and technology-transfer demands.
sustainable 
promoting 
to 
With regard to the energy sector, we have to fully 
take into account the crucial role of potential synergies 
between public and private finance. In order to tackle 
poverty  and  climate  change,  to  roll  back  Ebola  and 
malaria and the other major diseases, and to empower 
African  countries  to  overcome  trade  shocks,  one 
of  the  innovations  we  have  been  building  up  is  the 
establishment of an Italian development bank. We are 
attempting to foster direct local investment by starting 
up new joint ventures, resulting in an increase in decent 
jobs,  and  to  promote  the  emergence  of  responsible 
corporate governance practices. 
To  achieve  those  goals,  Italian  and  developing-
country enterprises need to work together — especially 
the small and medium-sized enterprises — by sharing 
entrepreneurial know-how and productive technology. 
That would lead us to what we call small capital — risk-
sharing  instruments,  credit  enhancement  and  other 
forms  of  leveraging  public  concessional  finance  to 
attract private investors and contribute to strengthening 
the local private sector.
Developing  countries  also  need  to  access  science 
and innovative technology on a gender-equal basis. We 
15-31804
15/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
already provide some of the best international practices 
in  that  field.  In  Trieste,  for  instance,  Italy  is  hosting 
an  international  research  and  educational  system  that 
deserves to be better known and, if possible, replicated.
Finally, Africa today is a continent of opportunity 
in  a  multipolar  world  and  legitimately  aspires  to  be 
an  actor  in  the  dynamic  global  challenges  of  today. 
That  reality  needs  to  be  acknowledged  in  the  United 
Nations  peace  and  security  architecture  as  well.  It 
is  of  the  utmost  importance  for  the  development  of 
Africa  to  achieve  the  goal  set  by  the  African  Union 
in  Agenda  2063  of  a  conflict-free  continent  by  2020. 
The international community must step up its efforts to 
help Africa succeed in preventing conflict, eradicating 
extremism and intolerance, and founding peaceful and 
stable societies.
To  do  so,  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and 
subregional  African  organizations  can  play  a  critical 
role in enhancing the participation of all development 
actors — parliaments, civil societies, non-governmental 
organizations,  universities,  philanthropic  foundations, 
each with its own specific relevance. Italy will continue 
to do its part to that end.
Mr. Okamura (Japan): Let me begin by expressing 
my  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  issuing 
the two comprehensive reports (A/70/175 and A/70/176)
before us today. I should also like to express my respect 
for the tireless efforts of the United Nations Office of the 
Special Adviser on Africa, especially Under-Secretary-
General  and  Special  Adviser  Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz; 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development, 
especially Mr. Ibrahim Mayaki; and the African Union 
Commission  (AUC).  Their  efforts  have  led  to  the 
holding of this series of events during Africa Week.
As  has  already  been  said,  2015  is  the  year  of 
development.  That  means  that  it  is  a  most  opportune 
year in which to rethink African development. Earlier 
this  year,  the  African  Union  adopted  Agenda  2063 
and its First Ten-Year Implementation Plan. The Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  was  adopted  last  July.  Just 
weeks  ago,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
Those three documents are key for African sustainable 
development.
The  topic  of  today’s  discussion  is  development 
and  peace  and  security  in  Africa.  Those  are  issues 
that Japan has been promoting as the basis of African 
development.  Since  1993  Japan  has  hosted  the  Tokyo 
International  Conference  for  African  Development 
(TICAD), and that ongoing process covers development 
and  peace  and  security.  The  most  recent  of  those 
summit meetings, TICAD V, was held in Yokohama in 
Japan in 2013. I was then Director-General for Africa 
in Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and therefore  I 
was in charge of organizing the meeting. The TICAD 
process embodies several important characteristics that 
make it particularly valuable in the context of Africa’s 
development, on which I would like to elaborate.
The  first  unique  aspect  is  that  TICAD  is  a 
partnership  conference  that  focuses  on  preserving 
and  enhancing  African  ownership.  In  other  words, 
Africa  is  sitting  in  the  driver’s  seat.  The  AUC  joined 
the  United  Nations  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser 
on  Africa,  the  World  Bank  and  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme as a conference co-organizer. 
It  is  very  symbolic  that  our  Prime  Minister  Abe  and 
African  Heads  of  State  and  Government  sat  together 
at  the  podium  of  TICAD  V,  leading  the  discussion. 
Most  importantly,  the  agenda  and  programmes  of  the 
meeting were decided by listening to the voices of all of 
the African States. TICAD is now an African process.
The  second  unique  aspect  of  the  TICAD  process 
is  its  approaches  to  development.  The  first  approach 
is  economic  growth.  TICAD  focuses  on  economic 
growth through the construction of infrastructure and 
the  development  of  human  resources.  Africa  is  now 
registering quite a high rate of growth. TICAD insists 
on achieving development that is African-led, and that 
economic growth needs to be more robust, sustainable, 
resilient and inclusive. We call it quality growth.
The  second  approach  is  the  involvement  of  the 
private sector. Economic cooperation from the Japanese 
side  should  be  made  through  an  all-Japan  approach. 
In  other  words,  in  addition  to  official  development 
assistance  (ODA),  trade  and  investment  is  extremely 
important  for  economic  growth  and  development. 
The  Japanese  private  sector  is  being  encouraged  to 
go to Africa, including by using ODA as a catalyst for 
investment.
The  third  approach  is  agriculture.  We  talk  about 
agriculture from the point of view of food security and 
poverty  reduction.  TICAD  considers  that  agriculture 
needs  to  be  profitable,  which  is  to  say  that  Africa’s 
agricultural sector needs to be developed beyond basic 
subsistence  towards  economic  self-reliance.  In  that 
16/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
process,  poverty  eradication  will  be  accomplished  in 
many rural areas.
Members  may  learn  more  about  the  TICAD 
approach  in  the  Yokohama  Action  Plan,  the  outcome 
document of TICAD V. 
The  approaches  mentioned  are  very  much  in  line 
with Agenda 2063. Next year, 2016, will be a year full 
of opportunities, because for the first time in TICAD’s 
20-year history, the next Summit, TICAD VI, will be 
held in Africa, in Nairobi. We have already commenced 
preparations  at  the  Japan-African  Regional  Economic 
Communities Summit round table.
Japan hosts the round table every year at the margins 
of the General Assembly’s high-level week. The chairs 
of  the  African  regional  economic  communities  are 
invited.  At  the  round  table  held  on  26  September, 
just  several  weeks  ago,  Prime  Minister  Abe  stated 
that  Japan  will  engage  in  all  possible  cooperation  for 
the  transformation  of  Africa’s  social  and  industrial 
structures,  so  that  “made  in  Africa”  becomes  an 
international brand. Representatives from the member 
nations  of  the  regional  economic  communities  said 
that agriculture, infrastructure development, trade and 
industrialization are the most important issues in which 
cooperative efforts should be strengthened.
Economic  prosperity  rests  on  prolonged  peace 
and  stability.  At  TICAD  V,  Japan  committed  itself  to 
peacebuilding over a broad swathe of Africa, spanning 
from Mali to Somalia and including the Sahel region. 
Since  TICAD  V  in  2013,  however,  emerging  threats 
such  as  the  expansion  of  violent  extremist  groups, 
for  example  Boko  Haram  and  Al-Shabaab,  and  the 
frequent  occurrence  of  terrorism  have  become  more 
serious.  Those  issues  are  threats  to  Africa’s  peace 
and  stability  and  therefore  to  its  economic  and  social 
foundations. As Japan was elected, just yesterday, as a 
new member of the Security Council for the period of 
2016-2017 — for which I extend my sincere gratitude to 
everyone here — we are determined to engage in efforts 
to resolve the root causes of conflicts. Furthermore, at 
TICAD VI next year, we hope to find a way forward to 
respond to violent extremism.
The health and well-being of the people of Africa is 
another prerequisite for the region’s development. The 
recent outbreak of the Ebola virus disease reminds us 
of  the  vulnerability  and  fragility  of  the  public-health 
systems in many African countries. Long-term health 
objectives, such as eradicating malaria, can be combined 
with  short-term  efforts  at  capacity-building  so  as  to 
respond  to  emerging  epidemics,  such  as  Ebola,  by 
strengthening health systems at all levels and achieving 
universal health coverage. Japan is determined to do its 
utmost to achieve the target of eradicating malaria and 
strengthening health systems in Africa.
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
to  reiterate  Japan’s 
determination to support African development, together 
with  all  African  countries,  in  particular  through  the 
TICAD process.
(Uganda):  My 
Mr.  Nduhuura 
delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  earlier  by  the 
representatives of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China and of Sierra Leone on behalf of the 
Group of African States.
The international community has made tremendous 
efforts to assist Africa to get out of underdevelopment, 
which  is  characterized  by  poverty,  disease,  violent 
conflicts,  hunger  and  unemployment,  among  other 
things.  Working  within 
the 
Millennium Development Goals, a number of countries 
in Africa made some progress towards the attainment of 
many of those Goals, in particular those on education, 
gender equality and the empowerment of women, and 
combating HIV/AIDS.
framework  of 
the 
In spite of the progress made, enormous challenges 
remain. The disease burden remains high, particularly 
epidemics  such  as  Ebola,  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria, 
among  others,  which  put  enormous  strain  on  the 
meagre  resources  available.  The  urgent  development 
of  vaccines  will  go  a  long  way  to  save  not  only  lives 
but  also  resources,  which  can  then  be  channelled  to 
development projects. While the research on vaccines 
is  still  ongoing,  I  wish  to  remind  the  Assembly  that 
it  is  possible  to  eradicate  malaria  from  the  African 
continent, just as was done on other continents, using 
proven methods that could be applied. But because of 
the pharmaceutical wars that are raging currently, that 
has not yet been possible.
The  international  community  has  often  not  been 
effective in addressing African problems, particularly 
poverty, owing to a faulty diagnosis of its root causes, 
and  that  has  always  led  to  inappropriate  solutions. 
That is why, in the implementation of 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), every effort 
should be made to support priority development policies 
and  projects  as  designated  by  national  Governments. 
We  need  to  pursue  a  global  partnership  with  a 
15-31804
17/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
common  purpose  in  order  to  realize  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  That  will  be  critical,  not  only  in 
proving coherence but also in avoiding duplication and 
competition, particularly among international partners.
Persistent violent conflicts on the continent destroy 
lives,  property  and  infrastructure, 
thus  retarding 
development.  Therefore,  consolidating  peace  and 
security 
in  Africa  and  strengthening  democratic 
governance  are  crucial 
for  Africa’s  sustainable 
development. The Security Counci, whose mandate is 
to maintain international peace and security, has done 
commendable work in Africa. However, much remains 
to  be  done  to  make  the  Council  more  responsive  and 
effective. We remain convinced that Security Council 
reform will unlock its potential to respond to all threats 
to  international  peace  and  security  in  a  timely  and 
effective  manner.  In  the  same  vein,  a  review  of  the 
partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations should be given due consideration.
At the continental level, the African Union Agenda 
2063 and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
need all possible support, with resources, both human 
and  financial,  to  give  Africa  a  push  to  get  out  of  the 
vicious  cycle  of  poverty  and  conflict.  Under  Agenda 
2063,  African  leaders  aspire  to  attain  continental 
connectivity 
infrastructure  development, 
industrialization,  increased  intra-African  trade  and 
investment,  among  other  things.  All  these  efforts 
will  certainly  need  support  through  partnership,  as 
envisaged  in  the  2030  Agenda,  which  in  turn  should 
lead to the realization of Agenda 2063.
through 
When one looks at the current influx of migrants 
and  refugees  from  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  into 
Europe,  it  becomes  clear  that  investment  of  genuine 
and  adequate  resources  where  they  are  most  needed 
benefits  both  recipients  and  donors.  The  sustainable 
solution to this influx is therefore not to build high walls 
and  barbed-wire  fences  in  Europe,  but  to  address  the 
problem at source. We have an opportunity today as an 
international community to work together and address 
the  challenges  of  underdevelopment  and  insecurity 
wherever they exist, for the benefit of humanity.
Mr.  Bishnoi  (India):  I  am  honoured  to  speak  on 
behalf of India at today’s debate on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  Let  me  begin 
by  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on 
the  items  under  discussion,  including  the  thirteenth 
consolidated progress report on the implementation of 
and international support for NEPAD (A/70/175).
We  endorse  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
representative of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China.
important 
role 
As  a  template  of  an  African-owned  and  African-
led  framework  for  the  socioeconomic  development 
of  the  continent,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  has  played  an 
in 
galvanizing the support of the international community 
for the efforts of African nations to bring sustainable 
development 
the 
Secretary-General  clearly  notes  that  in  the  decade 
and a half of its implementation, the continent has, in 
overall  terms,  experienced  unprecedented  economic 
growth and improved social development, even though 
progress in some areas has been halting and persistent 
challenges have hampered the continent’s achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals.
their  people.  The  report  of 
to 
While  we  have  debated  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD  for  several  years,  the  unique  context  and 
timing  of  today’s  debate  are  most  propitious.  Our 
leaders  have  just  adopted  the  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  to  channel 
our collective efforts over the coming decade and a half. 
We also adopted this year a new template for financing 
development under the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. As 
the outcome of a conference that was held on African 
soil, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda will also, we hope, 
generate  tangible  results  in  generating  financial  and 
technological  support  to  assist  the  efforts  of  African 
countries.  Also  this  year  African  States  adopted  the 
African  Union  Agenda  2063,  an  ambitious  50-year 
transformative agenda that outlines a wide-ranging and 
comprehensive vision for the continent’s development, 
peace  and  security.  With  all  these  initiatives  taken 
together, the year 2015 marks an important milestone 
for Africa’s development.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  NEPAD 
paints  a  rather  mixed  picture  of  the  state  of  global 
partnership to support Africa’s development. The most 
important reflection of this is of course the stagnating, 
if  not  declining,  levels  of  development  aid  going  to 
Africa. Even as overall levels of official development 
assistance  (ODA)  increased  slightly  in  2014  over  the 
previous  year,  what  is  striking  is  that  ODA  to  Africa 
suffered  a  decline.  Moreover,  the  share  of  Africa  in 
global  ODA  also  fell.  That  cannot  but  be  a  cause  of 
18/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
concern  and  a  situation  that  must  be  remedied  at  the 
earliest. It is important not only that aid commitments 
be  met  at  the  earliest,  but  also  that  aid  continues  to 
flow to those most in need. It is equally important that 
aid not be diverted from social sectors like health and 
education into climate change mitigation, for which the 
support must be new and additional.
India’s  links  with  Africa  go  back  a  long  way  in 
history.  Nurtured  by  people-to-people  contact,  these 
links  are  anchored  in  shared  history  and  enduring 
friendship  across  the  Indian  Ocean.  Our  common 
bonds  of  anti-colonial  struggle  and  post-colonial 
nation-building  have 
this 
friendship and cooperation. 
strengthened 
further 
India  and  Africa  today  represent  rapidly  growing 
economies with demographic advantages and common 
development aspirations. The multifaceted development 
partnership  between  India  and  Africa  is  based  on 
equality, friendship and solidarity and represents South-
South cooperation in all its dimensions. It encompasses 
human  resource  development  through  scholarships, 
training  and  capacity-building;  financial  assistance 
through  grants  and  soft  loans  to  implement  various 
public-goods projects in accordance with the requests of 
our African partners; and trade preferences, technology 
collaborations, humanitarian assistance, deployment of 
peacekeeping  troops,  and  coordination  of  approaches 
on global issues of concern for developing countries.
to  African  countries.  These 
The  focused  priorities  being  pursued  by  the 
Government  of  India  in  its  partnership  with  Africa 
are  synergistic  with  Africa’s  own  Agenda  2063.  The 
similarity of our priorities and shared purpose provide 
special  strength  and  durability  to  our  partnership. 
Just  since  2011,  India  has  provided  more  than  24,000 
scholarships 
include 
more  than  300  training  programmes  conducted  at 
over  60  institutions  and  the  scholarships  for  higher 
education at various institutions. India-Africa trade has 
multiplied  20  times  in  the  past  15  years  and  doubled 
in the last five years to reach $72 billion in 2014-2015. 
India launched its Duty Free Tariff Preference Scheme 
for  Least  Developed  Countries  (LDCs)  in  2008  and 
expanded it in 2014 to include 98 per cent of all tariff 
lines.  The  benefits  of  this  unilateral  scheme  extend 
to all sub-Saharan African countries to increase their 
exports to India.
Growing investment by Indian companies in Africa 
is  now  estimated  to  be  in  the  range  of  $30  billion  to 
$35 billion, spread across a range of sectors. In the last 
decade, the Government of India has approved a total of 
almost $9 billion in concessional credit for nearly 140 
projects in more than 40 African countries, with special 
emphasis  on  LDCs,  landlocked  developing  countries, 
and small island developing States partners in view of 
their special challenges and requirements. So far nearly 
60 projects have been completed.
India  is  organizing  the  third  India-Africa  Forum 
Summit  from  26  to  29  October,  for  which  we  have 
planned  the  participation  of  all  54  African  countries. 
This  will  be  the  first  such  Summit  following  the 
landmark  adoption  of  Agenda  2063  by  the  African 
Union this year. This Summit will also be the first since 
the achievement of 50 years of pan-Africanism.
India  and  Africa  have  long  worked  together  to 
develop  a  common  approach  and  joint  endeavour  to 
attain  inclusive  economic  growth,  eradicate  poverty 
and  achieve  sustainable  development.  We  have  no 
doubt that this unique partnership will only strengthen 
in coming years.
Mr. Scott (United States of America): The United 
States welcomes this opportunity to share views with 
colleagues on the progress of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Africa’s development 
is important not just for Africa; it is important for the 
entire world. As President Obama said in his speech in 
July at the African Union headquarters in Addis Ababa:
“We will not be able to meet the challenges of 
our time — from ensuring a strong global economy 
to  facing  down  violent  extremism,  to  combating 
climate  change,  to  ending  hunger  and  extreme 
poverty — without the voices and contributions of 
one billion Africans.” 
We  see  opportunity  in  Africa.  The  continent’s 
middle  class  is  projected  to  grow  to  more  than  one 
billion consumers over the next decade. With hundreds 
of  millions  of  mobile  phones  and  surging  access  to 
the  Internet,  Africans  are  beginning  to  leapfrog  old 
technologies into new prosperity.
While Africa is one of the fastest-growing regions 
in  the  world,  sustainable  development  remains  a 
challenge.  We  agreed  on  our  universal  goals  in  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), adopted last month. Now we must work together 
to  achieve  them.  That  is  why  the  United  States 
appreciates  the  kind  of  holistic,  comprehensive,  and 
15-31804
19/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
integrated approach to sustainable development that the 
New  Economic  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
represents. NEPAD’s six key areas of focus articulate 
a  clear  and  compelling  plan  of  action  that  will  help 
the  people  of  Africa  realize  sustainable  economic 
development.
Many  of  the  United  States  foreign  assistance 
programmes  and  partnerships  are  aligned  with 
NEPAD’s vision for helping Africans help themselves 
to  achieve  sustainable  development.  For  example, 
the  United  States  Government’s  Feed  the  Future 
programme  focuses  on  increasing  crop  yields,  which 
leads to higher incomes, improved nutrition, enhanced 
food  security  and  stronger  economies.  Through  these 
and  other  efforts,  the  United  States  has  helped  more 
than two million African farmers use new techniques 
to  boost  their  yields,  feed  more  people  and  reduce 
hunger.  Our  Power  Africa  programme  is  mobilizing 
billions  of  dollars  in  investments  from  Governments 
and businesses to reduce the number of Africans living 
without  electricity.  The  United  States  is  also  taking 
steps to help Africans trade more with themselves by 
modernizing customs and border crossings. This work 
started with the East African Community, but we are 
now expanding our efforts across the continent.
We are working together with Africa to take on the 
spectre  of  climate  change.  The  United  States  pledged 
$3 billion to the Green Climate Fund to help countries 
prepare for and adapt to climate change. We are working 
hard to get the global Climate Fund set up so that it can 
deliver new tools for mitigation and adaptation.
The  United  States  is  also  investing  in  better 
health treatments to prevent and treat diseases. As the 
United  States  continues  to  provide  billions  of  dollars 
in the fight against HIV/AIDS through the President’s 
Emergency  Plan  for  AIDS  Relief,  the  Global  Health 
Security Initiative and other programmes, we are also 
helping African nations take greater ownership of their 
own  human  development  by  building  strong  public-
health systems that stop diseases from spreading in the 
first place.
Good governance is a central tenet of United States 
foreign assistance programming. As President Obama 
has  said:  “Nothing  will  unlock  Africa’s  economic 
potential  more  than  ending  the  cancer  of  corruption”. 
The  United  States  leadership  in  forming  .the  Open 
Government  Partnership  has  increased  transparency, 
bolstered  citizen  engagement  and  harnessed  new 
technologies to improve governance. South Africa is the 
Government lead for the Open Government Partnership 
this year, creating an opportunity for Africa to follow an 
African lead on promoting transparency in governance.
In  the  same  vein,  our  delegation  commends  the 
African-led African Peer Review Mechanism process, 
which shares experiences and reinforces best practices. 
We  appreciate  the  enthusiasm  of  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  Secretariat  and  its  dedication  to 
pursuing good governance.
My delegation also appreciates the opportunity to 
consider  the  Assembly’s  agenda  item  on  the  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria.  The  United  States  has  been 
committed to the prevention and treatment of malaria 
for  many  years,  and  we  remain  determined  to  work 
with  national  Governments  and  other  partners  to 
help  lead  the  effort  to  end  deaths  from  malaria.  As 
many  here  know,  the  President’s  Malaria  Initiative, 
launched in 2005, aims to halve the burden of malaria 
in  70  per  cent  of  at-risk  populations  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa. The President’s Malaria Initiative now supports 
19 countries on the continent. It has also produced more 
than 48 million anti-malarial treatments and 51 million 
rapid diagnostic tests.
With  United  States  support,  countries  are  also 
strengthening their own capacities to fight the disease. 
Investments  in  malaria  prevention  and  control  are 
positively  impacting  the  lives  of  millions  of  children, 
pregnant  women  and  families  in  Africa.  It  is  a 
tremendous  success  story,  yet  it  is  still  incomplete. 
The  next  United  States  President’s  Malaria  Initiative 
strategy,  for  2015-2020,  was  launched  at  the  White 
House in February. This strategy embraces the global 
malaria community’s vision of a world without malaria. 
It  outlines  the  United  States  Government’s  goal  to 
work with its partners to further reduce malaria deaths 
towards the long-term goal of elimination.
As a partner in Africa’s historic transformation, the 
United States is committed to promoting public health, 
food security and access to electricity — investments 
that  will  help  fuel  Africa’s  rise  for  generations  to 
come.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  our  work  with 
the  African  Union  and  with  the  people  of  Africa  to 
realize the promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
Mr.  Annakou  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First, 
allow  me  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
reports  concerning  these  agenda  items  (A/70/175  and 
20/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
A/70/176). I wish to express appreciation to Ambassador 
Maged  Abdelaziz,  the  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Adviser  on  Africa,  and  Mr.  Ibrahim  Mayaki,  Chief 
Executive Officer of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). I appreciate their efforts in the 
service of the African continent.
My delegation supports the statement made earlier 
by the representative of South Africa on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. We also support the statement 
by the representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the 
Group of African States.
The  General  Assembly  discussion  concerning 
the  role  of  NEPAD  comes  only  three  weeks  after  the 
Summit  at  which  we  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  We  recall 
that the Agenda does not leave anyone out. It focuses 
on 17 Goals and 169 targets. 
This meeting is of particular importance because it 
is being held in the year when, at the international level, 
we adopted the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. 
At  the  African  level,  at  its  twenty-fourth  session,  in 
Addis  Ababa  in  January,  the  African  Union  Summit 
adopted  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063,  which  is 
intended  to  catalyse  peace,  development  and  security 
in Africa over a fifty-year period. The African Union 
also adopted the First Ten-Year Implementation Plan for 
that Agenda during its twenty-fifth Summit, in South 
Africa in June.
In  the  light  of  what  has  been  said,  it  is  now 
necessary to establish links between the First Ten-Year 
Implementation  Plan  for  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030 
Agenda  and  to  coordinate  these  Agendas.  NEPAD 
has  a  role  to  play  in  that  regard.  It  will  thus  be  able 
to help Africa to achieve ownership of the Sustainable 
Development Goals and endorse the targets that relate 
to  the  African  countries  and  to  regional  and  national 
plans, while respecting the cultural and other features 
of Africa.
Despite the progress made in recent years in terms 
of socioeconomic growth and development, and despite 
the  progress  recorded  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), it should be remembered 
that the African continent is nevertheless coping with a 
number of crises that have undermined its capacity to 
achieve some of the MDGs fully.
A  major  challenge  for  the  future  is  to  fulfil  the 
ambitious objectives for the 2030 Agenda. To do so, it 
will  be  incumbent  on  developed  countries  to  respect 
their commitments made during major United Nations 
conferences devoted to the African continent. It will also 
be important to support African States in their efforts 
to restore economic stability, facilitate investment and 
technology transfer, integrate the private sector, ensure 
food  security  and  develop  infrastructure  and  human 
resources.
With respect to the questions relating to peace and 
security in Africa, many countries on the continent are 
still  suffering  a  deteriorating  security  situation  and 
armed  conflict.  Libya  is  one  such  country.  We  stress 
here  the  close  relationship  between  development  and 
security. There can be no development without security, 
and vice versa. There is an urgent need to strengthen 
institutional 
cooperation  with  African  States, 
particularly  with  respect  to  conflict  prevention,  the 
maintenance of peace, post-conflict recovery, security 
reform,  disarmament,  the  promotion  of  a  democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance,  in  order  to 
achieve political and economic stability in Africa.
reiterates 
the 
commitment  of  Libya.  Despite  our  ongoing  security 
situation,  instability  and  lack  of  economic  growth 
and  development,  the  Government  of  my  country 
will  seek,  with  African  States,  to  promote  the  New 
Agenda  for  Africa’s  Development  —  the  partnership 
directed 
towards  making  progress  and  achieving 
growth  and  prosperity  for  African  countries  through 
common action and cooperation — and respect for the 
cooperation agreements signed with the African States. 
We will work together to implement the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
Africa is a rich continent, rich in human resources, 
young  and  dynamic  people,  and  the  huge  natural 
resources  that,  if  they  are  exploited  properly,  will 
enable  Africa  to  achieve  the  ambitious  vision  of  the 
Agenda 2063 and thus become an advanced continent, 
able to make a positive contribution to the prosperity of 
humankind, its stability, its progress and its happiness.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Resolutely  overcoming  many  challenges, 
Africa  has  recently  achieved  significant  successes 
in  socioeconomic,  scientific,  technical  and  cultural 
development. It is playing an important part in building 
a just, democratic and multipolar world. Of course, most 
of  the  credit  goes  to  the  Africans  themselves.  Russia 
greatly  appreciates  these  efforts  made  by  the  African 
15-31804
21/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
community. The full participation of African countries 
in  worldwide  political,  economic  and  humanitarian 
processes will help to ensure that we achieve the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
which  harmoniously  incorporates  the  priorities  of 
Africa’s strategic new concept, Agenda 2063.
We support coordinated measures to help achieve 
the  sustainable  development  of  Africa.  We  attach  the 
utmost importance to the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD).  We  are  actively  participating 
in concerted steps to provide comprehensive assistance 
bilaterally 
international 
mechanisms. 
existing 
and 
through 
Russia  is  playing  a  lead  position  in  writing  off 
the debts of African States. Today, under the standard 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, much 
of the debt of Africa, more than $20 billion, has been 
written off, and we are taking steps to further lighten 
the  debt  burden  on  Africans,  including  through  the 
debt-for-development swap.
Russia’s cooperation with the Governments of the 
African  continent  and  with  regional  and  subregional 
entities  is  growing.  In  September  last  year  Russia’s 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  the  Africa  Union 
Commission  signed  a  memorandum  on  a  mechanism 
for  political  consultations.  We  are  currently  working 
on  updating  the  2003  memorandum  of  understanding 
between  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federation 
and the Southern African Development Community on 
the  foundations  of  mutual  relations  and  cooperation. 
We are considering the possibility of signing a similar 
document  with  the  Common  Market  for  Eastern  and 
Southern Africa.
We  are  also  working  on  trade  and  economic 
cooperation, including mutually beneficial investment 
projects. This includes a favourable customs and tariffs 
regime in our country that covers most of the imports 
from  Africa.  We  are  pleased  to  note  a  growing  trend 
in  Russian  business  in  Africa.  Successful  examples 
include  major  projects  such  as  developing  platinum 
deposits in Darwendale in Zimbabwe and building an 
oil refinery in Uganda.
We  attach  great  importance  to  food  security 
and  humanitarian  assistance  to  Africa.  We  provide 
significant  health  care  assistance,  including  helping 
countries  recover  from  the  Ebola  virus.  We  have 
increased  Russian  contributions  through  the  World 
Food  Programme,  the  World  Health  Organization, 
the  International  Civil  Defence  Organization,  the 
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the 
International Development Association.
The  most  important  prerequisite  for  stability  and 
sustainable development in Africa is conflict prevention 
and conflict resolution. There has been a drop over the 
past decade in the number and intensity of the conflicts, 
but Africa is still vulnerable. So it is very important that 
the international community should respond in a timely 
and effective way to emerging threats to security, but it 
is inadmissible that any State should dictate to Africans 
how they must solve their problems, and those who try 
blatantly  to  intervene  in  internal  affairs  of  African 
States are being destructive.
A  central  role  belongs  to  the  United  Nations, 
primarily  the  Security  Council.  At  the  same  time, 
initiatives  by  Africans  themselves  have  turned  out 
rather well in a number of cases, and such efforts deserve 
support. Who better than Africans can have a full grasp 
of the situation or have access to tools that are better 
suited to the local conditions? We welcome progress in 
an African peace and security structure with assistance 
from  the  international  community.  We  consistently 
advocate cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  African  Union  and  between  the  Security  Council 
and the African Union Peace and Security Council.
We  call  for  intensified  efforts  to  deal  with  the 
conflict  situations  in  Darfur,  Somalia,  South  Sudan, 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Mali,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the 
inter-Sudanese  area,  and 
international 
terrorism,  extremism,  transnational  organized  crime, 
piracy, trafficking in weapons and drugs, uncontrolled 
migration and other, related issues.
the  Congo,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
to  combat 
We  note  the  active  participation  of  Africans  in 
peacekeeping  missions  in  Africa  under  the  auspices 
of the United Nations and the African Union. We will 
step  up  our  support  for  capacity-building  in  African 
countries to enhance their ability to deal with crises. We 
provide training to peacekeepers and law enforcement 
personnel in Russian academic institutions, and we are 
elaborating for the international community a strategy 
of practical measures to strengthen peace and security 
in  Africa.  We  call  for  enhancing  the  initiatives  of 
African members of the Security Council. Our country 
participates in many peacekeeping missions in Africa 
and is one of the biggest suppliers of goods and services, 
particularly for civil aviation.
22/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
In  conclusion,  I  confirm  the  Russian  Federation’s 
willingness  to  continue  its  political  dialogue  and 
mutually  beneficial  multidimensional  cooperation 
with Africa and its active participation in international 
programmes and projects to assist Africa.
Mr. Skoog (Sweden): First, I would like to thank 
the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa and all of 
those  involved  in  making  this  year’s  Africa  Week  a 
success. 
Secondly,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
special tribute to the leadership shown in recent years 
by  the  African  Union  and  Africa’s  regional  economic 
communities  in  strengthening  integration,  peace  and 
development  in  Africa.  Building  a  more  resilient  and 
just global community cannot be achieved without an 
ever stronger partnership between the United Nations 
and regional organizations, not least in Africa.
Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
Sweden’s  long-standing  partnership  with  Africa,  both 
in the past and, more important perhaps, in the future. 
What  started  out  many  decades  ago  as  support  for 
African independence, freedom, democracy and human 
rights,  including  a  vigorous  stand  against  apartheid, 
has over the years evolved into a strong partnership for 
addressing regional and global challenges of common 
concern.  Looking  to  the  future,  we  will  continue  to 
support  Africa’s  commitment  to  building,  as  it  is  put 
in  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063,  “an  integrated, 
prosperous  and  peaceful  Africa  driven  by  its  own 
citizens and representing a dynamic force in the global 
arena”. We will do this bilaterally as Sweden, we will do 
this as a member of the European Union, and we will do 
this  in  partnership  with  the  international  community, 
as a Member of the United Nations.
We  need  longer-term,  comprehensive  approaches 
to security and development, in particular in conflict-
affected  States  and  situations  of  fragility.  It  is  this 
integrated  vision  that  guides  Sweden’s  development 
cooperation,  as  well  as  its  work  as  the  Chair  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  here  in  New  York 
and  Co-Chair  of 
the  International  Dialogue  on 
Peacebuilding  and  Statebuilding.  But  again,  this  can 
only be done through an ongoing conversation and in 
full inclusivity and recognition of the strong legitimacy 
that comes from the regional organizations themselves.
It  is  high  time  that  Africa’s  legitimate  claim  to 
be  adequately  represented  on  the  Security  Council 
is  acted  upon.  Our  commitment  to  both  security  and 
development  has  guided  Sweden’s  work  at  the  United 
Nations.  Ever  since  the  days  of  Dag  Hammarskjöld, 
Sweden has remained a steadfast supporter of a strong 
United  Nations  and  effective  multilateralism.  Tens  of 
thousands of Swedes have served in the Blue Helmets, 
and  in  Africa  alone  we  have  participated  with  large 
troop  contributions  in  United  Nations  peace  support 
operations,  starting  in  the  1960s  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  following  in  Somalia, 
Liberia,  Chad  and  now  currently  in  Mali.  We  are  the 
sixth largest provider of voluntary contributions to the 
United Nations, a strong advocate of core funding, and 
one  of  the  largest  contributors  to  the  United  Nations 
development  funds  and  humanitarian  aid,  and  we  are 
proud to be so.
The  universality  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals entails a shift away from traditional development 
assistance.  That  is  why  my  Government  this  month 
announced  a  whole-of-Government  approach  to  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). This means that we pledge to look at how all 
policy  areas  contribute  to  equitable  and  sustainable 
global development, including with regard to trade and 
investment policies. All of this has to start at home.
But  that  having  been  said,  we  still  know  that 
international development cooperation will be needed 
for  the  foreseeable  future,  particularly  in  the  poorest 
and  most  vulnerable  countries  and  regions,  and  in 
the  context  of  the  new  SDGs  we  have  reaffirmed 
the  importance  of  the  0.7  per  cent  goal  of  official 
development assistance (ODA) to developing countries. 
All of us need to continue and step up these efforts. As 
for  Sweden,  I  am  happy  to  announce  here  today  that 
we next year will continue to invest 1 per cent of our 
domestic income to ODA.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
of the African Union.
Mr.  Mayaki  (African  Union):  Allow  me  first  to 
convey  our  warmest  congratulations  to  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  also  seize  this 
opportunity to thank his predecessor, Mr. Sam Kutesa, 
for  his  commendable  achievements  throughout  the 
pivotal sixty-ninth session.
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  is  central  to  the  continent’s  transformation 
efforts.  The  necessary  political  determination  has 
been  renewed  by  African  leaders  to  help  deliver  the 
15-31804
23/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
accelerated implementation of NEPAD under the aegis 
of  the  African  Union  and  in  close  collaboration  with 
the  regional  economic  communities.  Furthermore, 
the  resounding  commitment  of  African  leaders  to 
a  sustainable  development  agreement  for  the  next 
15 years that is transformative and global is proof that 
the African continent is ready to eradicate all forms of 
marginalization  and  underdevelopment  and  engage  in 
structural transformation.
that 
Over  the  past  few  years,  Africa  has  consistently 
demonstrated 
its  countries  are  capable  of 
transforming  and  even  fast-tracking  their  economies, 
thereby boosting intra-African trade and consolidating 
the  entire  continent.  As 
inclusive  growth 
the  development  agency  of 
the  African  Union, 
NEPAD  focuses  on  the  strategic  coordination  of  the 
implementation of the continent’s priority programmes 
and  projects.  That  role  is  now  more  critical  in  the 
context  of  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063,  which  is 
the matrix of Africa’s future transformation.
for 
We  are  now  at  the  end  of  a  very  important  year 
for  gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment.  This 
year  marks  important  milestones  for  Africa  in  terms 
of the global agendas on gender equality, namely, the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Beijing  Declaration  and 
Platform  for  Action  and  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women and 
peace and security. In recognition of those milestones, 
the African Union declared 2015 the Year of Women’s 
Empowerment and Development under Africa’s Agenda 
2063. Agenda 2063 envisages the effective participation 
of women in public and private life through a full and 
fair  share  of  economic,  social,  cultural  and  political 
opportunities and decision-making.
While  agriculture  has  been  and  remains  the 
backbone of many African economies and will be the 
basis of our industrialization, overall the informal sector 
continues to provide critical economic opportunities for 
Africa’s  poor.  It  is  the  resilience  and  resourcefulness 
of  this  informal  sector  of  self-employed  and  risk-
taking individuals, predominantly women, that sustain 
many  economies.  In  our  drive  for  industrialization, 
this informal economy will need to transit to a formal 
economy.
The  African  Union  recognizes  that  promoting 
gender  equality  is  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  to 
drive  inclusive  growth,  and  it  supports  countries, 
women’s organizations and civil society organizations 
in their efforts to advance gender equality and women’s 
empowerment.  In  order  to  ensure  that  there  are 
additional  resources  to  support  development  projects 
that  address  gender  concerns  in  Africa,  the  NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency,  in  partnership 
with the Spanish Government, established the NEPAD-
Spanish  Fund  for  African  Women’s  Empowerment. 
This NEPAD Fund has achieved many outcomes since 
its  inception  in  2007.  It  has  contributed  to  women’s 
economic empowerment through skills transfer, access 
to  finance,  the  setting  up  of  businesses  and  access  to 
land. More than half a million women have benefited 
directly from the Fund. 
The  NEPAD  Agency  continues  to  prioritize  the 
empowerment  of  women  through  its  gender  support 
programme and is working very closely with member 
States  and  development  partners  to  bring  practical 
support,  specifically  in  the  areas  of  skill  and  career 
development,  particularly  for  women  in  rural  areas, 
networking,  organizing  women’s  groups,  and  scaling 
up economic and business opportunities and start-ups.
Furthermore,  pursuant  to  the  decision  of  the 
African  Union  Assembly,  the  NEPAD  Agency  is 
developing  a  policy  framework  on  youth  employment 
in Africa. The African continental framework on youth 
employment  will  be  mainstreamed  in  Agenda  2063, 
and the NEPAD Agency is working on this endeavour 
in collaboration with the African Union Commission, 
the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
International Labour Organization.
Let  me  emphasize  that  infrastructure  remains 
Africa’s  top  priority.  With  low  levels  of  intraregional 
economic exchange and only a small share of global trade, 
Africa  is  determined  to  increase  its  competitiveness. 
Infrastructure inefficiencies are costing Africa billions 
of dollars annually and are stunting growth. Bridging 
the  gap  in  infrastructure  is  thus  vital  for  economic 
advancement  and  sustainable  development.  However, 
it is only through regional and continental cooperation 
and solution-finding that this can be achieved.
Under  the  leadership  of  His  Excellency  President 
Macky  Sall,  President  of  Senegal  and  Chair  of  the 
NEPAD  Heads  of  State  and  Government  Orientation 
Committee, the Dakar Financing Summit in June 2014 
brought together private sector executives and African 
project owners to address the challenges besetting the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
24/26 
15-31804
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.34
Development in Africa (PIDA). On that occasion, PIDA 
stakeholders  prioritized  16  mega-projects  in  order 
to  transform  Africa,  among  which  is  the  4,500-km 
highway  between  Algiers  and  Lagos,  which  is  almost 
completed.
The NEPAD Agency is now actively involved in four 
facility instruments resulting from the Dakar Financing 
Summit.  First,  the  NEPAD  Agency  established  and 
financed the PIDA Service Delivery Mechanism, which 
is designed to endow project owners with the required 
capacity for early-stage project preparation. Secondly, 
the  NEPAD  Agency  supported  the  Infrastructure 
Consortium  for  Africa  in  the  establishment  of  a 
round  table  of  project  preparation  funds  in  order  to 
enhance  cooperation  among  the  funds,  so  that  they 
can undertake continent-wide initiatives such as PIDA. 
Thirdly, the African Development Bank Africa 50 Fund 
was  established  to  finance  infrastructure  projects, 
including PIDA projects. 
The fourth instrument, and the final milestone, is 
the  Continental  Business  Network,  which  serves  as  a 
high-level  platform  for  private-sector  involvement  in 
the PIDA projects. At the launch of this platform, more 
than 40 top global and African chief executive officers 
made a concrete commitment towards the development 
of  Africa’s  regional  infrastructure  and  recognized 
the  Continental  Business  Network  as  an  African-
led  movement  to  fast-track  high-level  private-sector 
investment  in  the  development  of  Africa’s  regional 
infrastructure.
The  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Illicit 
Financial Flows from Africa observed that Africa loses 
$50  billion  through  illicit  financial  flows.  In  order  to 
commence  the  implementation  of  a  recommendation 
in the report, and of the decision of the African Union 
Summit  of  June  2015,  the  NEPAD  Agency  organized 
the  first-ever  regional  dialogue  on  capacity-building 
for tax and mining administration officers in the West 
and  Central  Africa  region.  It  is  envisaged  that  this 
dialogue, designed for senior government officials, will 
contribute to improved tax policy design and to better 
contract negotiation for the extractive industries.
The year 2015 will be a landmark year for the global 
fight  to  eradicate  poverty  and  achieve  a  sustainable 
future. We are pleased and thankful to see that African 
priorities  in  general  and  the  NEPAD  programmes  in 
particular have been taken well into account in the two 
major agreements adopted so far. The third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in 
Addis Ababa in July, came at a critical time. A central 
issue is how to reform the global financing system in a 
way that will allow the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  by  2030.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  are 
convinced  that  its  recommendations  will  play  an 
important role in ensuring that the SDGs are achieved 
by 2030 and will contribute to development financing 
even beyond that date.
As the Sustainable Development Goals have been 
adopted,  it  is  of  great  importance  that  the  NEPAD 
Agency,  the  African  Union  system  partners  and  the 
regional economic communities, through Agenda 2063 
and  with  the  United  Nations  agencies,  promote  good 
governance,  quality  education  for  all  and  women’s 
empowerment, and that they increase the application of 
science,  technology  and  innovation  to  improve  health 
and well-being, conserve and sustainably benefit from 
the  blue  economy,  address  climate  change,  eliminate 
hunger  and  attain  food  security,  and  develop  quality 
infrastructure,  including  for  energy.  That  is  why 
significant  support  for  PAIDA  —  the  Partnership  on 
Africa’s Integration and Development Agendas — from 
the Member States will be critical.
The  SDGs  are  a  good  foundation  for  long-term 
sustainable solutions that will enable Africa to realize 
its development aspirations as embodied in Agenda 2063 
and the NEPAD programmes. However, it is important 
to  maintain  the  coherence  and  alignment  of  the  2030 
Agenda with the vision outlined in the African Union 
Agenda  2063  and  its  First  Ten-Year  Implementation 
Plan,  which  are  to  be  operationalized  by  the  NEPAD 
Agency.
It is most essential to reiterate that the foundation 
for  Africa’s  renewal  is  premised  on  the  reforms  of 
national  governance  systems  under  the  African  Peer 
Review Mechanism (APRM), which was established in 
2003. The Mechanism is the focal point for deepening 
democracy  and  the  dissemination  of  best  practices 
among African Union member States and reflects their 
commitment to improving governance at all levels. To 
date,  35  States  members  of  the  African  Union  have 
voluntarily  joined  the  Mechanism,  17  countries  have 
been  peer-reviewed,  and  the  second-cycle  review 
process is in the pipeline. Going forward, APRM has 
the urgent task of ensuring the effective implementation 
of the national programmes of action arising from the 
peer review exercises.
15-31804
25/26
A/70/PV.34 
16/10/2015
through 
At  the  institutional  level,  the  APRM  is  being 
strengthened  through  its  integration  into  the  African 
Union  and 
the  development  of  stronger 
collaboration  and  closer  synergy  with  the  relevant 
regional  organizations  and  programmes.  In 
this 
regard, the APRM is being repositioned so that it can 
effectively serve as the monitoring tool for the African 
Union Agenda 2063.
In  the  preparations  for  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Paris, 
the  NEPAD  Agency,  through  our  support  to  the 
African  Ministerial  Conference  on  the  Environment, 
has  provided  technical  support  to  the  African  group 
of  negotiators.  In  our  capacity  as  secretariat  of 
the  African  Union  Environment  Initiative  and  the 
regional  environment  flagship  programmes,  we  are 
currently  undertaking  programme  development  and 
implementation 
to  promote  sound  environmental 
management for sustainable development and resource 
mobilization  to  support  environmental  programmes 
in  Africa.  The  NEPAD  Climate  Fund  has  supported 
capacity-building  activities  for  policy  coherence  at 
the  national  level  and  strengthening  the  resilience 
capabilities of communities affected by climate change.
In  2015,  two  solid  multilateral  consensuses  were 
reached,  ahead  of  a  third  one  coming  at  the  end  of 
the  year.  That  shows  the  tremendous  determination 
of  the  international  community  to  tackle  the  global 
issues  currently  affecting  the  people  and  the  planet. 
NEPAD is a partner of choice for the implementation 
of  these  ambitious  agendas  on  our  continent.  As  the 
technical agency of the African Union, we reaffirm our 
commitment  to  a  better  Africa  and  a  better  world  by 
2030.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  sincerely 
thank the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa and  
Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz,  whose  commitment 
to  Africa’s  priorities  and  programmes  is  extremely 
important. I should also like to express sincere thanks 
to  the  Permanent  Observer  Mission  of  the  African 
Union to the United Nations and theGroup of African 
Staattes in New York for their continued support.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
26/26 
15-31804
