United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
9th plenary meeting
Saturday, 26 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I now call on the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the State of Palestine.
Mr.  Malki  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  wish  to  align  myself  with  previous  speakers 
in  congratulating  the  co-Chairs  as  they  preside  over 
this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
express our respect and appreciation to all the members 
of  the  Bureau,  who  assisted  in  the  great  efforts  that 
led to the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  entitled 
“The  future  we  want”,  adopted  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  and 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  set  forth  some  of  the 
transcendent  goals  that  we  have  established  in  order 
to  achieve  a  world  of  sustainable  development  based 
on  the  three  dimensions  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental  —  which  are  the  basis  for  a  peaceful, 
just and safe world, free of poverty.
I speak today on behalf of the people of Palestine, 
who  have  been  suffering  67  years  of  setbacks,  and 
of  a  country  that  has  been  under  foreign  occupation 
for  more  than  50  years.  More  than  half  of  its  land  is 
under  occupation,  while  Israel  expands  its  settlement 
activities,  allowing  extremists 
their 
outrageous  activities  and  refusing  to  accept  the  two-
State solution, in defiance of international legitimacy.
to  continue 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has  systematically 
destroyed Palestine’s economic infrastructure through 
a  number  of  measures,  including  what  it  has  done  to 
the West Bank and Gaza, to East Jerusalem, the capital 
of the State of Palestine, which is close to the hearts of 
the  Palestinian  people.  Palestinians  have  been  denied 
access  except  through  special  permits  issued  by  the 
occupying  Power.  Its  original  Palestinian  inhabitants 
are treated as if they were temporary residents.
In  addition,  economic  and  development  activities 
have been stifled. For example, in its efforts to Judaize 
the area, Israel has banned all sorts of urban activities, 
including religious tourism. Israel is working to change 
the  city’s  nature  and  characteristics  by  allowing 
extremists  to  enter  the  sacred  places  while  denying 
ordinary Muslims the same access.
Mr.  Alyemany  (Yemen),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
As for the Gaza Strip, Israel has waged three wars 
there that have resulted in total and massive destruction 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29241 (E)
*1529241*
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
that  has  adversely  affected  every  aspect  of  life.  The 
unemployment and poverty levels exceed 60 and 50 per 
cent, respectively, as Israel has imposed a total blockade 
of the area for the last eight years. According to United 
Nations reports, the Gaza Strip will not be suitable for 
any human activity before 2020. The Gaza Strip needs 
a development miracle to restore live to it.
Turning to the West Bank, about 60 per cent of its 
area  is  closed  to  the  Palestinian  people,  who  are  not 
permitted  to  use  its  natural  and  economic  resources, 
such  as  the  remaining  land,  gas  wells  and  water, 
or  to  benefit  from  its  oil  and  gas  reserves.  When 
the  Palestinian  Government  attempted  to  carry  out 
exploration activities, the Government of Israel sent an 
official letter asking it to desist, despite the fact that the 
Israelis have been pumping oil from many wellsin the 
so-called Area C for years. According to a 2013 World 
Bank  report,  the  Palestinian  people  are  being  denied 
access to it. Allowing them to use it would improve the 
unemployment situation by 41 per cent, the deficit by 
60 per cent.
Since the signing of the Oslo accords, Palestinians 
have had, according to the World Bank, some success 
in developing their infrastructure. However, we failed 
to  improve  our  economic  infrastructure  because  of 
the  obstacles  associated  with  occupation.  We  are 
still  suffering  from  an  economy  that  is  structurally 
seriously  deformed.  For  example,  we  cannot  control 
our monetary and fiscal policies or arrive at a balanced 
budget. Nor can we issue our own currency or manage 
our  currency  in  the  market,  as  we  have  been  forced 
to  basically  use  Israeli  currency  since  1967.  Israel 
imposes  its  fiscal  policy  on  us,  controlling  taxation, 
spending, employment and income distribution, so that 
our control over this area and our economic growth is 
minimal. We are denied the access we need to market 
our  products  worldwide,  and  any  negative  impact  on 
Israel’s economy affects us as well. Based on a shocking 
Oxfam report of the last quarter of 2013, Palestinians’ 
per capita annual income has increased to $2,093 from 
$2,000 since 2013, less than 0.5 per cent of that of Israeli 
citizens, which has increased 195 times more than that 
of their Palestinian counterparts. That is the result of 
Israel’s blockade and other policies in the Gaza Strip. 
Needless to say, those are absolute numbers, not about 
purchasing power, which makes matters even worse.
The Economic and Social Commission for Western 
Asia  (ESCWA)  is  trying  to  conduct  a  comprehensive 
economic survey of the 48 years since Israel’s occupation 
of  the  West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  the 
Gaza Strip began, so as to assess the damage that the 
Palestinian  people  have  suffered  as  a  consequence.  I 
believe that if ESCWA succeeds in producing a report, 
the  conclusions  will  shock  everybody.  Only  then  will 
the  world  understand  the  terrible  toll  that  the  Israeli 
occupation  exacts  from  the  Palestinian  people,  far 
more  than  the  international  community  is  giving  us 
as a country under occupation. If the occupation ends 
and  we  finally  regain  access  to  our  economic  natural 
resources,  we  will  have  a  strong  and  independent 
economy  and  will  no  longer  need  that  international 
assistance.
Finally and in order to enable us to play our true 
role and protect our citizens, we call on the Assembly, 
as  part  of  its  overall  interest  in  ensuring  sustainable 
development, to pay greater attention to the suffering 
of the Palestinian people, which has been growing for 
seven decades.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  and  European  Integration  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova.
Ms.  Gherman  (Republic  of  Moldova):  I  am 
honoured to be in the Assembly today and to be a part 
of the momentous achievement, both for our countries 
and our Organization, that is the adoption of a global 
post-2015 development agenda (resolution 70/1), laying 
out  a  path  to  sustainable  development  for  the  next  15 
years.
We are here to commit to robust action for both the 
present  and  future  of  our  planet,  with  the  eradication 
of poverty and the protection of the environment at its 
core. An important milestone for the fulfilment of that 
transformative agenda is the upcoming Conference of 
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December, 
which  will  be  crucial  to  translating  the  environment-
related  goals  of  our  global  agenda  into  concrete  and 
ambitious commitments and contributions. It is not an 
overstatement to say that our generation is the first to 
seriously tackle climate change and perhaps the last to 
be able to do so. We must rise to the challenge and do 
everything  in  our  power  to  preserve  the  environment 
and ensure people’s well-being without leaving anyone 
behind.
If  current 
trends 
the 
environment  continue,  the  disintegration  of  nature 
the  degradation  of 
in 
2/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
around  the  world  is  imminent.  Current  economic 
and  consumption  patterns  are  known  to  be  driving 
humankind in the wrong direction, one that is pernicious 
and undesirable for us all. By any measure, reconciling 
our economic and environmental goals and shifting to 
models  of  sustainable  development  are  a  tremendous 
challenge  for  our  times.  That  is  why  the  post-2015 
development agenda must be a turning point in the way 
we plan our economies, exploit our natural capital and 
build partnerships.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) must 
cut  across  all  sectors  and  national  policies  and  must 
be supplemented by clearly defined indicators, as well 
as adjusted to national circumstances, as the only way 
to  make  sustainability  tangible  in  each  country  and 
region. Achieving the Goals will require a truly global 
partnership  that  goes  beyond  traditional  models  of 
cooperation, engaging everybody — the Government, 
civil society, the private sector and intergovernmental 
organizations — and demonstrating greater coherence 
and impact. Although Governments will take the lead, 
this is not an agenda only of or for Governments, nor 
is  it  just  for  the  United  Nations.  The  new  Agenda 
should be in everyone’s focus. It is our duty to inspire 
all stakeholders and people to take ownership of it, to 
assume responsibility for it and to offer support towards 
the attainment of its goals.
My  country  is  committed  to  contributing  to  that 
global  effort.  Moldova  is  one  of  the  countries  that 
started early, setting up a strong legal and institutional 
framework  for  the  transition  to  sustainable  practices, 
and  began  to  actively  introduce  innovative  solutions 
within  the  key  areas  of  its  economy.  During  the  last 
couple of years, the Government successfully upgraded 
the policy framework for the sustainable management 
of  natural  resources,  including  agriculture,  the  green 
economy,  transportation  and  trade  facilitation  and 
many more areas.
In  less  than  five  years,  in  close  partnership  with 
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) 
and the European Union (EU), we succeeded in setting 
up  a  nationwide  infrastructure  for  biomass  energy 
production.  We  built  that  whole  new  industry  from 
scratch in that short period of time — an industry that 
is thoroughly competitive, modern and sustainable and 
that benefits all three pillars of our development agenda: 
the economic, the social and the environmental. That is 
a  vivid  example  of  an  initiative  with  genuine  impact 
and is proof that we have the expertise and commitment 
necessary  to  achieve  concrete  results.  Sustainable 
development  is  indeed  tangible  and  can  be  achieved. 
We will continue to take long-term measures to further 
grow that sector.
About  three  years  ago,  the  Government  set  up 
an  energy  efficiency  fund  to  finance  modern  energy 
projects.  The  fund  was  designed  to  make  long-term 
investments  in  the  country’s  energy  security  while 
reducing  its  ecological  footprint.  The  scope  of  our 
initiatives  is  systemic  and  envisions  fundamental 
transformations of our society, in line with the country’s 
European  aspirations.  The  implementation  of  the 
Association Agreement with the European Union is an 
overarching  framework  that  we  are  pursuing  towards 
that  end,  and  both  the  European  Union  Integration 
Agenda  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in 
Moldova are complementary and indivisible. Standards 
and regulations in all spheres of life have begun to be 
rigorously enforced in accordance with the EU acquis 
and  the  internationally  agreed  norms,  and  we  will 
continue to keep a watchful eye over the process. All 
those  efforts  seek  to  enforce  the  economic  resilience 
and social cohesion of our country and to maintain the 
environment of stability, prosperity and peace that we 
long to present in our region.
The international community must step up efforts 
to  finance  the  implementation  of  the  new  Agenda. 
Without adequate financing, the current trend towards 
increased inequality and the expansion of unsustainable 
practices  at  the  expense  of  the  natural  environment 
will  only  intensify.  That  is  something  that  we  cannot 
afford.  Official  development  assistance  and  foreign 
direct investment remain a critical input for developing 
countries and those in transition in their quest to fulfil 
their developent priorities and address their setbacks.
From that perspective, with a view to tackling the 
issue of the means of implementation, in Chisinau last 
February, the Government of Moldova, in partnership 
with  the  Government  of  Germany  and  in  cooperation 
with UNDP and the International Labour Organization, 
hosted  the  high-level  meeting  of  the  Global  Dialogue 
on  Strengthening  Capacities  and  Building  Effective 
Institutions  for  the  Implementation  of  the  United 
Nations Post-2015 Development Agenda. Through that 
joint  initiative  we  made  an  important  contribution  to 
the  post-2015  consultations.  My  country  stands  ready 
to contribute to and promote that contribution in order 
to ensure its implementation phase.
15-29241
3/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
The  Global  Dialogue’s 
recommendations  are 
pertinent  and  universal.  Ensuring 
sustainability 
depends  crucially  on  the  character  of  institutions  and 
their capacity to deliver. The core idea is that quality 
should prevail over quantity in everything we do: when 
we set up a new service, start a business or even take 
decisions  on  family  planning.  The  implementation  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals must be a mutual 
learning  and  sharing  process.  Most  importantly,  we 
must  facilitate 
inclusive  communication  with  all 
stakeholders  and  ensure  that  our  societies  understand 
what  sustainable  development  means  and  relate  it  to 
their  daily  lives.  We  must  foster  necessary  change  at 
the level of individual behaviour. Only in that way we 
will cultivate a better understanding of the tasks ahead 
and a sense of solidarity towards our common goal and 
a better future.
In conclusion, allow me to share our optimism and 
confidence that our joint commitment to the post-2015 
agenda  is  genuine  and  sincere,  and  that  a  few  years 
from  now  we  will  return  to  this  very  Assembly  and 
express  not  only  our  expectations  and  aspirations  but 
the successful results of its implementation.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I request 
my colleagues to honour the time limit so that we are 
able to accomplish our task in due course.
I now call on Mr.  Leo Dion, Deputy Prime Minister 
and Minister for Inter-Government Relations of Papua 
New Guinea.
Mr. Dion (Papua New Guinea): Papua New Guinea 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  acknowledges  the  collective 
efforts of all stakeholders to chart this transformative, 
universal  development  road  map,  which  will  ensure 
that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) leaves no one behind.
The Millennium Development Goals galvanized the 
global community to take action on the key development 
concerns of the developing world. The 2030 Agenda is 
therefore a significant landmark at this point in time, 
when  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United  Nations.  My  Government  pledges  its  support 
and  commitment  towards  the  full  realization  of  the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Papua  New  Guinea 
and 
recognizes 
is 
a  people-centred 
transformative  post-2015 
development  agenda  that  must  be  nationally  owned 
that 
this 
and  driven  and  supported  by  global  partnerships.  We 
can  succeed  only  when  countries  truly  own  and  lead 
their  national  development  plans  and  strategies  while 
integrating  the  2030  Agenda.  Consistent  with  our 
2014  national  strategy  for  responsible  sustainable 
development,  Papua  New  Guinea  recognizes  that  a 
healthy,  well-educated  population  is  the  underlying 
driver  for  development.  The  principles  of  responsible 
sustainable development mean that we do not conduct 
ourselves  in  a  manner  that  compromises  our  future 
generations.
We must ensure that this high-level political forum 
adequately  supports  national,  regional  and  global 
sustainable development goals and efforts so as to avoid 
the pitfalls of its predecessors.
Papua New Guinea has also invested heavily in the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
through  Government  interventions  that  have  put  in 
place  national  policies  and  plans  for  free  basic  health 
care and services, manage national population growth 
and  provide  access  to  water,  sanitation,  hygiene  and 
energy  resources.  We  are  also  developing  an  energy 
policy.  Tuition-free  education  has  resulted  in  the 
enrolment of an additional 2 million children in the past 
two years. We have laid a strong foundation that is now 
contributing  to  unprecedented  economic  growth,  and 
my Government is fully committed to ensuring that we 
manage that transformation carefully and effectively to 
deliver the maximum benefit to all our citizens, while 
protecting our natural resources for future generations. 
Our  challenge  is  to  translate  enhanced  growth  into 
improved  human  development  outcomes  so  as  to 
achieve our Papua New Guinea Vision 2050, with the 
consequent achievement of the sustainable development 
strategies.
the 
We,  the  people  of  the  Pacific  island  countries, 
are  pleased  with 
inclusion  of  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  13,  on  climate  change,  and 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans,  seas  and  marine 
resources for sustainable development. For the Pacific 
island  countries,  individually  as  well  as  collectively, 
having 
the 
Sustainable Development Goals depends largely on the 
effective  and  sustainable  management  of  our  natural 
environment and natural resources. Climate change is 
here.  Even  with  the  current  average  global  warming 
temperature of less than 1° C, Pacific island States have 
already  been  dealing  with  serious  consequences.  The 
to  successfully  achieve 
the  ability 
4/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
recent  Pacific  Islands  Leaders  Forum,  held  in  Papua 
New Guinea, reiterated the concern that climate change 
remains  the  single  greatest  threat  to  the  livelihood, 
security and well-being of the peoples of the Pacific.
The Declaration on Climate Change Action, adopted 
by  the  Forty-sixth  Pacific  Islands  Leaders  Forum, 
expressed  the  following  points,  among  others.  First, 
we  expect  an  ambitious  and  legally  binding  climate 
agreement to be adopted at the twenty-first Conference 
of Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December. 
Secondly,  we  urge  that  there  be  recognition  of  the 
special circumstances and vulnerability of small island 
developing States, particularly those in the Pacific, and 
of the least developed countries. Thirdly, we agree that 
an  increase  of  1.5°C  in  the  global  temperature  would 
severely  exacerbate  the  particular  challenges  facing 
the most vulnerable small island States of the Pacific 
and  that  all  efforts  be  made  to  stay  within  the  global 
temperature  goals.  Fourthly,  we  support  the  inclusion 
in the Paris outcome document of stipulations on loss 
and  damage  as  critical  and  stand-alone  elements  that 
build on the ongoing work of the Warsaw international 
mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate 
change  impacts.  Fifthly,  we  have  the  expectation 
that  there  be  access  to  financial  resources  to  support 
climate  change  action  and  resilience  in  vulnerable 
developing countries. Sixthly, we recognize the impact 
of climate change on women, young people, the elderly, 
the disabled, indigenous peoples and other vulnerable 
and marginalized groups. We must acknowledge their 
contributions  to  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
Paris outcome.
Papua New Guinea has set in place the necessary 
foundation,  and  using  the  combined  lessons  learned 
from the Millennium Development Goals and the past 
40 years as a country with economic opportunities, we 
most  certainly  welcome  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals and pledge our commitment to achieving better 
results.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.
Mr.  Bělobrádek  (Czech  Republic):  The  Czech 
Republic  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  its  high  degree  of 
ambition  in  seeking  the  coveted  transformation  that 
would strike a balance between the further development 
of  humankind  and  our  planet’s  natural  limits.  At  this 
time,  we  are  seeing  the  results  of  and  capitalizing  on 
the  formidable  institutional  and  human  commitments 
that have been required in recent years for us to work 
together in order to arrive at a common vision of a better 
and fairer world where no one stands on the periphery.
The  very  process  of  plotting  that  collective  path 
has not been easy. Needless to say, the Czech Republic 
had  and  continues  to  have  its  own  priorities  and 
expectations, expectations that have largely been met to 
our satisfaction in the outcome document. We welcome 
and  applaud  the  fact  that  a  horizontal  approach  has 
been successfully applied to what, until recently, was 
barely  conceivable,  and  that  from  now  on,  for  all  of 
us,  the  concept  of  sustainable  development  will  be 
synonymous  with  the  balanced  implementation  of  its 
three  dimensions  —  economic,  environmental  and 
social with the active participation of all stakeholders, 
including civil society.
The Czech Republic views as another breakthrough 
the  union  of  two  previously  parallel  processes:  the 
process  based  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  the  process  that  follows  on  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. I am confident 
that  the  connection  will  lead  to  a  better  quality  of 
development  and  help  to  establish  a  balance  between 
socioeconomic  growth,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
sustainable use of natural resources and environmental 
protection, on the other. In the wake of the successful 
third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  in  Addis  Ababa  in  July,  we  can  rightly 
celebrate another milestone in multilateralism.
However, with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda, we 
are  now  embarking  on  an  equally  important  stage. In 
its implementation, which must definitely confirm and 
deliver on the historical shift achieved, a great deal of 
responsibility and thought are required. I believe that 
it  would  be  right  and  appropriate  on  this  occasion  to 
remind ourselves of this. Beyond the pivotal importance 
of  actively  involving  Governments  at  all  levels  in 
implementing the new Agenda, we also need to place 
emphasis on delivering an efficient funding mechanism, 
especially in the context of the broader application of 
innovative forms of aid and private-sector development 
in general.
Another  equally  important  step,  which  is  also  a 
major challenge and opportunity for the Economic and 
Social  Council  and  the  High-Level  Political  Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development,  will  be  the  introduction 
15-29241
5/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
of  effective  monitoring,  which  should  guarantee 
the  continuous  tracking  of  progress  in  pursuing  the 
Sustainable Development Goals and help to ensure the 
timely identification of any potential pitfalls requiring 
extra attention in the next 15 years, including through 
the  sharing  of  good  practices  and  the  exchange  of 
experiences  among  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations
If  elected  this  year  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council for the 2016-2018 session, the Czech Republic 
will  do  its  utmost  to  contribute  to  this  effort.  The 
availability  of  reliable  data  will  be  a  key  factor  in 
monitoring  at  the  national  level.  The  Czech  Republic 
is confident that its statistical service is a high quality, 
independent  source  of  information.  It  is  also  well 
aware of the need to strengthen public-administration 
capacity to collect and analyse data in those countries 
where such a need has been identified.
Holistic solutions delivering the essential responses 
required for multifaceted problems sometimes require 
complex  and  technically  advanced  procedures.  The 
Czech  Republic  supports  the  idea  of  identifying 
such  procedures  through  projects  that  address  global 
themes  that,  from  a  domestic  perspective,  need  to  be 
incorporated  into  existing  systems  for  the  financing 
and  evaluation  of  the  science.  Beyond  the  technical 
dimension of science, the humanities and social sciences 
also have a role to play in that they can provide solutions 
to current social ills. Competent analyses and scientific 
outputs are instrumental in laying the groundwork for 
addressing  the  repercussions  of  today’s  demographic 
trends, such as migration and climate change.
From  a  national  point  of  view,  we  look  at  the 
Sustainable Development Goals not only as externally 
originating  change  but  also  as  an  opportunity  to 
forge  appropriate  links  between  global  efforts  aimed 
at  sustainable  development  and  the  trends  we  are 
witnessing  in  the  Czech  Republic,  which  can  bridge 
national and global levels of sustainable development. 
The  Czech  Republic  has  already  made  progress 
by  creating  a  Government  council  for  sustainable 
development, which seeks to strike a balance among the 
three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development.  As  the 
council is an advisory body to Government as a whole, 
it provides a platform for discussions on interministerial 
issues  and  cross-cutting  agendas.  The  very  existence 
of  the  council  highlights  the  importance  the  Czech 
Republic  attaches  to  the  sustainable  development 
Agenda. One of the ways to implement the Sustainable 
Development Goals at the national level is through the 
Czech  Republic  strategic  framework  for  sustainable 
development, which is currently being updated.
The Czech Republic is confident that by adopting 
the  2030  Agenda,  we  are  embarking  on  a  new  era  of 
sustainable  development  that  will  eradicate  poverty 
and  promote  education,  shared  prosperity,  peace  and 
stability.  Nevertheless,  if  these  global  objectives  are 
to  be  achieved,  our  focus  must  remain  on  respect  for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  the  equal 
participation  of  women  in  society,  functional  and 
effective institutions, the rule of law, good governance 
and  a  corruption-free  environment.  The  efforts 
associated with the delivery of such basic requirements 
guarantee  that  the  real  successes  of  the  new  Agenda 
will be visible not only on paper, but in the everyday 
lives of millions of people calling for change.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan.
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): It was a historic 
moment when we gathered to take a decision to adopt 
a  comprehensive,  far-reaching  and  people-centred  set 
of universal and transformative goals. I commend the 
General  Assembly  on  the  successful  conclusion  of  its 
negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda.
As  one  of  the  world’s  fastest-growing  economies, 
Azerbaijan  has  achieved  impressive  results  in  the 
field of development. In the first half of 2015, despite 
the  global  economic  and  financial  crises,  Azerbaijan 
registered economic growth of 5.7 per cent,and growth 
in  the  non-oil  sector  of  9.2  per  cent.  Azerbaijan  has 
managed to become one of the key players in the global 
market  in  energy  infrastructure  projects  through,  for 
example,  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  oil  pipeline,  the 
construction of the Trans-Anatolian and Trans-Adriatic 
natural  gas  pipelines  and  the  Southern  Gas  Corridor, 
which  will  connect  the  energy  pipeline  networks  of 
Azerbaijan,  Georgia,  Turkey,  Greece,  Albania  and 
Italy.  Azerbaijan  has  also  initiated  strategic  transport 
infrastructure  projects  such  as  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Kars 
railway  project,  which  will  connect  the  rail  networks 
of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, and the new Baku 
International Sea Trade Port, which will provide a short 
connection  between  East  and  West,  thereby  reviving 
the Asian Silk Road.
With  a  view  to  delivering  equitable  and  efficient 
services to its citizens, my country established the State 
6/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
Agency for Public Service and Social Innovations. The 
Agency  already  covers  most  of  the  goals  on  the  new 
Sustainable  Development  Agenda,  adopted  by  this 
Summit yesterday (resolution 70/1). The success of this 
innovative model has been widely recognized. Indeed, 
the model received the United Nations Public Service 
Award in 2015.
to 
Our  people  are  committed 
to  making  a 
contribution 
international  development.  The 
leading non-governmental organization in Azerbaijan, 
the  Heydar  Aliyev  Foundation,  has 
implemented 
numerous  social,  humanitarian  and  development 
projects  in  a  number  of  countries.  We  attach  primary 
importance to the promotion of intercultural dialogue, 
religious tolerance and understanding among peoples. 
Azerbaijan will host the seventh Global Forum of the 
United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  2016.  We 
are proud that the first European Games were held this 
year  in  Azerbaijan  and  that,  in  2017,  Azerbaijan  will 
host the Islamic Solidarity Games.
Regrettably,  the  challenges  to  peace  and  security 
were  and  are  one  of  the  impediments  to  regional 
sustainable development and cooperation. The ongoing 
military  occupation  by  neighbouring  Armenia  of 
almost  20  per  cent  of  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan,  in 
blatant  violation  of  international  law  and  the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council,  continues  to 
represent  a  serious  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security.  In  brazen  violation  of  basic  human  rights 
conventions, Armenia is carrying out ethnic cleansing 
against  almost  a  million  Azerbaijani  in  the  occupied 
territories  of  Azerbaijan  and  in  Armenia  itself.  As  a 
result, they became refugees and internally displaced. 
Putting  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the  territories 
of  Azerbaijan  and  ensuring  the  return  of  forcibly 
displaced persons to their homes is an essential element 
of  the  implementation  of  the  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development in our region.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  my 
country  is  committed  to  sustainable  development  and 
to international efforts undertaken towards that end.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Azerbaijan  for 
having abided by the time limit.
I  no  call  on  the  Director-General  of  the  Ministry 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
Sierra Leone.
Mr.  Bangali  (Sierra  Leone):  I  am  making  this 
statement on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and  International  Cooperation,  Mr.  Samura  Kamara, 
who, unfortunately, could not be with us today.
I  have  the  honour,  on  behalf  of  my  country, 
Sierra  Leone,  to  participate  in  this  historic  summit 
for  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  acknowledge  with 
sincere thanks and appreciation the leadership role of 
the  outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa, for successfully 
guiding the process.
Sierra  Leone  endorses  the  adoption  of  the  post-
2015 development Agenda.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development held in Rio three years ago was a critical 
step forward towards building the world that we hope 
for.  In  this  regard,  we  should  now  commit  ourselves 
to  translating  into  reality  the  ambitious  Goals  set 
out in Agenda 2030. We must strive to transform our 
world through a new development trajectory and take 
concrete, bold and transformative steps to end extreme 
poverty, which, as aptly described in the 2030 Agenda, 
is  the  greatest  global  challenge  and  an  indispensable 
requirement for sustainable development.
We  note  the  important  progress  made  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). The major challenge in ensuring the success 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is 
working  out  a  proactive  and  effective  implementation 
strategy that must include, first, a seamless transition 
between  the  MDGs  and  the  SDGs  and,  secondly,  the 
development of new approaches that include issues of 
multi-stakeholder ownership, institutional partnerships, 
universality, empirical analysis and knowledge-sharing. 
We must therefore take the gaps and challenges in the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs  as  our  takeoff  point  in 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
To  this  end,  we  should  also  ensure  that  the  new 
development paradigm adequately addresses the needs, 
challenges and development priorities of every Member 
State, and we must remain steadfast and resolute in our 
pledge to leave no one behind.
Many  countries  in  Africa,  particularly  fragile 
and  conflict-affected  countries,  were  confronted  with 
15-29241
7/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
challenges  beyond  their  capacity  in  the  achievement 
of  the  MDGs.  These  challenges  remain  enormous, 
ranging from poor infrastructure to weak institutions, 
low human capital and lack of adequate and predictable 
financing,  despite  the  noticeable  strides  made  in 
promoting democracy and good governance. This new 
Agenda therefore presents a unique opportunity to not 
only ensure that the critical issues confronting Africa 
and other parts of the world, namely, poverty, hunger, 
youth unemployment, social inequality and the impact 
of  climate  change,  to  name  but  a  few,  are  effectively 
addressed,  but  also  to  find  integrated  and  innovative 
solutions to address the special needs of the conflict-
affected, fragile and least developed countries.
Sierra Leone therefore welcomes the recognition of 
the  need  to  mobilize  adequate  resources  for  conflict-
affected  countries.  We  underscore  the  significance  of 
a  long-term,  stable  and  predictable  flow  of  financing 
in  order  to  reduce  the  inherent  problems  that  are 
associated with uncertain or short-term financial flows. 
This is why we endorse the new financing framework, 
which requires public finance, policies and regulatory 
frameworks, unlocking the transformative potential of 
people and the private sector, and incentivizing changes 
in consumption, production and investment patterns to 
support sustainable development.
We firmly support the call to tackle climate change 
and urge all Member States and other stakeholders to 
maintain the momentum in collaboratively mobilizing 
the  political  will  to  achieve  a  meaningful,  universal 
climate  change  agreement  in  Paris  in  December  this 
year.
Official development assistance (ODA) remains one 
of the main sources of international financing for many 
developing  countries.  Sierra  Leone  strongly  believes 
that  ODA  is  essential  as  a  catalyst  for  development, 
including meeting the unfinished business of the MDGs 
and  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  But  ODA  must  be  ‘smart’:  it  must  focus  on 
‘aid  orphans’,  and  due  consideration  should  be  given 
to  conflict-affected  countries  within  the  spirit  of  the 
New Deal, which, we believe, should be mainstreamed 
within the United Nations system.
The 17 SDGs and 169 targets are indivisible, which 
simply means that success in all of them is required for 
a  truly  transformative  world  that  can  better  the  lives 
and dignity of the human race.
Sierra Leone welcomes Goal 16 of the SDGs, which 
underscores the importance and interlinkages between 
peace, security, stability, human rights and the rule of 
law as necessary conditions for development.
to  build  on 
Sierra  Leone  will  continue 
the 
remarkable progress made in political stability, which 
is  critical  to  development.  We  have  put  people  at  the 
centre of development and will in that regard continue 
to place emphasis on the protection of the basic rights of 
our people. We will continue to adopt measures to build 
on the progress made in addressing the root causes of 
conflict. We have laid the foundation for medium- and 
long-term  national  development  and  will  continue  to 
build on them.
Building  peace,  security  and  consolidating  good-
governance  reforms  will  continue  to  be  among  our 
priorities.  These  provide  us  the  appropriate  healing 
therapy for a country that has emerged from a massively 
devastating conflict and now Ebola.
We  have  moved  from  a  country  on  the  agenda  of 
the Security Council to a nation that is a storehouse of 
lessons on how to successfully move from war to peace 
and  development.  Notwithstanding  the  unprecedented 
Ebola  virus  outbreak,  which  had  a  grave  negative 
impact  on  our  socioeconomic  development,  we  are 
resolute  and  committed  to  implementing  our  agenda 
for prosperity, which is tailored to most of the Goals of 
the 2030 Agenda, together with the post-Ebola recovery 
strategy.
We  wish  to  commend  and  express  our  special 
thanks  to  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community for their support in ending the epidemic as 
well as in pursuing our post-Ebola recovery plan.
To conclude, amid our current challenges, we will 
continue  to  build  on  the  progress  made  in  addressing 
key  development  priorities,  particularly  in  the  areas 
of  gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  youth 
unemployment,  the  management  of  natural  resources, 
food security, the effective delivery of public services 
and  robust  private-sector-led  growth 
that  would 
translate  into  more  tangible  peaceful  dividends.  We 
therefore  look  forward  to  meaningful  partnerships  as 
well  as  a  structured  and  forward-looking  successful 
implementation of the SDGs within the next 15 years. 
Together  we  can  build  a  better  world  for  succeeding 
generations.
8/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  the  Minister  of  International  Cooperation  and 
Development of the United Arab Emirates.
Sheikha Al-Qasimi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): I am delighted to be here today to mark a 
major milestone for sustainable development.
that 
After  years  of  preparations 
included 
and 
extensive 
for  Sustainable 
is  proof  of  our 
negotiations 
intergovernmental 
consultations, 
Development 
commitment to a better world.
the  2030  Agenda 
(resolution  70/1) 
Building  on 
the  success  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals, the set of Sustainable Development 
Goals  reflects  a  new  global  consensus  on  how  the 
world  should  look  in  15  years’  time:  a  world  free  of 
poverty;  a  world  with  educated  and  healthy  citizens; 
peaceful  and  economically  prosperous  societies;  and 
clean environment and habitats. The 2030 development 
Agenda speaks to all of us, in all parts of the world.
The United Arab Emirates is pleased to participate 
in the achievement of the set of 17 goals and 169 targets. 
Access to clean energy, sufficient and affordable food, 
quality education and health care, sustainable economic 
growth,  healthy  ecosystems  and  increased  resource 
efficiencies: all of these issues resonate strongly with 
the United Arab Emirates.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  transformed  its 
economy into a highly advanced and knowledge-based 
economy  in  a  single  generation,  and  it  is  continuing 
to  develop  rapidly.  We  have  a  strong  commitment  to 
sustainable  development,  and  we  can  show  success 
stories in many sectors.
First,  we  have  set  ourselves  a  national  goal  of 
increasing  the  use  of  clean  energy  in  our  energy  mix 
through the deployment of solar energy and safe nuclear 
power.  We  are  diversifying  our  economy  through 
innovation, research and development, and investment 
in human capital. The United Arab Emirates supports 
the  equal  participation  of  women  in  all  aspects  of 
society. We are protecting and fostering terrestrial and 
marine  biodiversity  by  establishing  protected  areas 
and increasing the sustainable use of water resources. 
We  are  pioneering  sustainable  urban  communities,  as 
represented  by  Masdar  City,  the  world’s  leading  low-
carbon  urban  development.  And  we  are  committed  to 
combating climate change through active participation 
in international climate change negotiations.
These achievements have been driven by visionary 
leadership and effective policies, including the United 
Arab Emirates Green Growth and innovation strategies, 
and  initiatives  undertaken  across  our  country.  We 
believe  that  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
targets will continue to reinforce our strenuous efforts 
and  pave  the  way  for  our  achievement  of  sustainable 
development.
Although  still  a  relatively  young  and  developing 
country,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  become  the 
world’s most generous donor in the past two consecutive 
years, providing official development assistance above 
the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income, 
and  provides  extensive  support  to  fellow  developing 
countries.
Our contribution has already supported a number of 
core areas of the 2030 development agenda, including 
infrastructure  development,  the  provision  of  health 
care  and  renewable-energy  and  critical  humanitarian 
assistance.
The United Arab Emirates is not only a major donor 
but  a  major  convener  of  dialogues  on  sustainability, 
including  the  annual  Abu  Dhabi  sustainability  week, 
the  Abu  Dhabi  preparatory  meeting  for  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon’s Climate Summit, in 2014, and 
Expo  2020  Dubai,  which  will  champion  sustainable 
development.  We  are  also  the  proud  host  country  of 
the International Renewable Energy Agency, which is 
the world’s hub on renewable energy. The United Arab 
Emirates will continue to back these forums to foster 
partnerships and deliver practical solutions.
international  community  must 
The essential yet ambitious scope of the Sustainable 
Development Goals will require substantial resources. 
The 
look  beyond 
traditional methods of resource mobilization. We must 
forge  new  partnerships  and  be  innovative  in  order  to 
access  previously  untapped  sources  of  development 
finance and investment. It is not just about raising more 
resources, but also about addressing causes of market 
failures, creating an enabling environment for trade and 
commerce by reducing investment risks, and increasing 
opportunities for public-private partnerships.
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
the  2030  Agenda 
in  a  manner  consistent  with 
to 
for  Sustainable 
implementing 
Development 
its 
international obligations and commitments, and stands 
ready to work with all parties concerned.
is  committed 
15-29241
9/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
I would like to conclude by expressing our pledge 
to  leave  no  one  behind  and  to  shift  the  world  onto  a 
sustainable and resilient path. Let us join efforts in this 
critical journey to 2030 and beyond.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of New Zealand.
Mr.  McCully  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
welcomes  the  ambition  contained  in  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  and  we  support  the 
substance of the Goals. Indeed, it would be hard not to. 
As a specific country that places a high priority on the 
needs of small island developing States, New Zealand 
regards  the  achievement  of  the  SDGs  as  a  matter  of 
fundamental importance, not just a matter of statistical 
interest.
The  key  question  that  flows  from  their  adoption 
is  not  whether  the  17  Goals  contained  are  worthy 
objectives, but how we ensure that their adoption makes 
a  difference.  If  all  nations  and  organizations  do  the 
hard work and make the difficult calls, that will make 
the  SDGs  attainable.  The  SDGs  set  out  development 
goals  for  the  next  15  years.  It  is  sobering  to  ask  just 
how well we performed in relation to the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and what lessons we need 
to learn if we are to be more successful in relation to 
these successes.
The  primary  focus  of  my  country  is  on  its 
neighbourhood,  the  Pacific,  where  60  per  cent  of  our 
development  budget  is  spent.  Of  the  14  States  in  the 
Pacific Islands Forum, two achieved all of the MDGs, 
three  achieved  more  than  half,  and  several  nations 
achieved  none.  I  hope  that  most  would  agree  that 
we  collectively  need  to  do  better  in  the  Pacific  and 
elsewhere with the SDGs than we did with the MDGs. 
If  the  SDGs  are  to  be  attained,  we  need  to  learn 
some lessons about past practice and make challenging 
decisions  about  the  way  forward.  Yes,  sustainable 
development  requires  resources  to  be  made  available, 
but  it  also  requires  accountability  and  discipline.  It 
requires  Governments  and  partners  to  make  wise 
decisions  about  priorities.  Governments  and  partners 
will need to prioritize the developments that have the 
potential  to  be  game-changers  and  then  move  heaven 
and earth to make sure that some of these projects are 
actually delivered. 
A  key  reason  for  the  failure  to  achieve  a  better 
scorecard with the MDGs has been a failure to prioritize 
developments  with  the  greatest  potential.  Another 
reason  has  been  the  propensity  of  the  international 
development  community 
to  mistake  activity  for 
achievement.  Of  course,  we  need  good  process  to 
manage  the  expenditure  of  development  funding,  but 
that  is  no  excuse  for  valuable  development  resources 
being  squandered  in  lengthy  bureaucratic  processes. 
That is a particular problem for us in the Pacific.
The major international financing institutions have 
developed rule books and processes that might be very 
appropriate  for  projects  involving  billions  or  hundred 
of millions of dollars. But I come from a region where 
most of our neighbours have populations of tens or a few 
hundreds of thousands. Key development projects in the 
Pacific region often require a few million or a few tens 
of millions of dollars. The application of processes and 
rules designed for much larger projects in much larger 
countries have the very simple consequence of adding 
significant  extra  cost  and  long,  often  interminable 
delays. I take this opportunity today to say to the major 
financing  institutions,  as  I  have  been  saying  to  them 
directly  for  far  too  many  years  now,  that  they  serve 
our region poorly when they persist with processes and 
procedures that add so significantly to the cost and the 
timetables of important projects.
I have said that achieving sustainable development 
requires  focus  and  discipline  to  prioritize  activities 
that  had  the  capacity  to  be  game-changing.  Today, 
I want to talk briefly about two of the SDGs that are 
game-changers  in  our  region  —  energy,  specifically 
renewable energy, and fisheries, one being the biggest 
cost and the other being the largest economic asset in 
our region. 
In  common  with  most  small  island  developing 
States,  the  nations  of  the  Pacific  have  been  heavily 
dependent  upon  diesel  to  generate  electricity,  which 
comes at a great cost. The cost of diesel in the Pacific 
islands is more than double the cost in New York. About 
one  third  of  the  total  import  bill  of  these  countries 
and about 10 per cent of their gross domestic product 
is  consumed  by  the  cost  of  diesel.  In  short,  shifting 
Pacific  nations  from  dependence  on  expensive  diesel 
and  providing  access  to  renewable  energy,  especially 
solar power, is a real game-changer in our region. 
For  the  past  two  years,  New  Zealand  has  been 
leading a programme to shift Pacific neighbours from 
diesel-generated  electricity  to  renewable  energy.  In 
early 2013, we co-hosted a conference, in partnership 
10/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
with the European Union, involving all of the Pacific 
nations  and  the  major  development  partners.  We  are 
now implementing road maps in each country, and we 
are making good progress. 
For  most  of  the  smallest  islands,  the  change  is 
truly  transformational.  In  the  Tokelau  islands,  we 
have  moved  from  100  per  cent  dependence  on  diesel-
generated  electricity  to  100  per  cent  solar-generated 
renewable  electricity.  Earlier  this  year,  we  celebrated 
conversion of all the islands in the northern Cooks from 
total  dependence  on  fossil  fuels  to  100  per  cent  solar 
power. Significant progress has been made on the main 
island of the southern Cooks, Rarotonga, and all of the 
smaller  southern  islands  will  be  fully  resourced  with 
solar power in the coming months. 
In  Tuvalu,  the  four  outer  islands  will  be  shifted 
from  diesel-powered 
to  solar-powered  electricity 
by  December  of  this  year.  And  we  are  making  major 
headway with renewables in Samoa, Tonga, Niue, Papua 
New Guinea and Solomon Islands. Many of the skills 
and  lessons  we  have  learned  are  transferable,  and  in 
more recent times we have been pleased to be involved 
in assisting SIDS in the Caribbean, and others like the 
Comoro  Islands,  in  their  efforts  to  shift  to  renewable 
energy. 
Another  big  game-changer  for  our  region  is  the 
tuna fishery, its largest economic asset. So we welcome 
the adoption of the SDG for oceans. The Pacific tuna 
fishery  is  the  only  truly  healthy  tuna  fishery  left 
on  the  planet.  Keeping  it  healthy  and  ensuring  that 
its  economic  benefits  flow  more  substantially  to  its 
owners are critical tasks for the next decade. In each of 
the last three years, the market values of the tuna taken 
from the Pacific zones has declined from $3.9 billion to 
$3.4 billion to $3.1 billion. Yet in each of those years we 
have seen greater tonnages taken from the zones. That 
is simply not a sustainable path. 
New  Zealand  is  therefore  committed  to  investing 
significantly  in  building  the  fisheries  management 
capacity  of  the  region  and  encouraging  initiatives 
to  move  Pacific  nations  up  the  value  chain  through 
greater  processing  and  employment  opportunities  in 
the region. We need better cooperation among nations 
on surveillance in order to stamp out illegal fisheries 
and  the  underreporting  of  catch.  We  need  greater 
cooperation to protect the health of the world’s oceans. 
New Zealand welcomes the adoption of the SDGs, 
but we know that it marks the beginning, not the end, 
of  the  process.  Ahead  lies  the  challenging  task  of 
attempting  to  meet  these  Goals.  If  we  are  to  succeed 
in a way that the MDGs did not, we will need to learn 
from the significant lessons of the recent past. These are 
lessons about hard work and difficult decisions, about 
choosing the right priorities and focusing on practical 
outcomes. Above all, they are about strong partnerships 
that deliver positive and timely results. In that respect, 
the  Assembly  may  be  assured  that  New  Zealand  will 
play its full part.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of 
the Republic of Rwanda. 
Mrs. Mushikiwabo (Rwanda): Global development 
is  a  shared  responsibility.  This  week’s  adoption  of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  marks  a 
major step towards addressing the greatest challenges 
facing  our  world.  The  goals  are  ambitious,  but  so  are 
the  aspirations  of  billions  of  people,  who  are  keen 
to  improve  their  lives,  see  an  end  to  inequality  and 
conflict, and safeguard the health of our planet. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
were  adopted  as  my  country,  Rwanda,  emerged  from 
a devastating period following the genocide. While we 
were engaged in figuring out the most appropriate path 
to renewal, we found that the MDGs were aligned with 
our national vision and the expectations of our citizens, 
and we linked our efforts to a much wider context. This 
allowed Rwanda to meet most of the targets and build 
strong productive partnerships. 
In making the transition from the MDGs to the SDGs, 
we will have to take into account what we have learned 
in  the  past  15  years,  in  order  to  address  the  complex 
challenges  ahead.  First,  we  must  recognize  the  added 
value  the  Goals  bring  to  existing  development  plans. 
Secondly,  we  must  commit  to  making  the  best  use  of 
both domestic resources and development partnerships, 
a  big  part  of  which  is  ensuring  accountability  to 
ourselves  and  our  partners  for  results.  The  third 
lesson  —  and  the  best  determinant  of  success  —  is 
citizen ownership and involvement at every step in the 
processes  of  planning  and  implementation.  Plans  and 
resources  are  essential,  but  getting  people  on  board 
and  engaged  is  the  most  effective  way  to  achieve  the 
transformation. Every country will have to figure out 
the forms of governance and democratic participation 
needed for that to happen. In addition, the next 15 years 
present an opportunity to focus more on key underlying 
15-29241
11/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
factors  that  will  help  us  to  achieve  the  most  impact, 
including  the  promotion  of  gender  equality,  greater 
involvement of the private sector and the use of science 
and technology, particularly Internet broadband.
Finally, in line with my country’s commitment to 
the development process, we are honoured to be the host 
of the new Sustainable Development Goals Centre for 
Africa,  which  will  strengthen  partnerships  within  the 
continent, between the continent and the wider world, 
and with all stakeholders. That will allow us to make the 
most of this new chapter in international collaboration. 
We look forward to playing our part in building a safer 
and more prosperous and equitable world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear a statement by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  My  Government  welcomes 
the  outcome  document,  entitled  “Transforming  our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” 
(resolution 70/1), and is pleased to join the community 
of nations in adopting it. Its goals and targets fit well 
with  Eritrea’s  self-reliance  policy  and  development 
agenda.  It  clearly  reflects  Eritrea’s  commitment  to 
eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions 
among  our  people.  Since  Eritrea’s  independence  in 
1991,  the  Government  and  the  people  have  adopted 
a  people-centred,  inclusive,  pro-poor  and  internally 
driven  social,  economic  and  political  development 
agenda.
the 
leadership  and 
In spite of the hostile acts of some Governments, 
an extensive disinformation campaign, the imposition 
of  unjust  sanctions  and  the  occupation  of  some  of  its 
sovereign territory, Eritrea, as a result of the political 
commitment  of 
the  people’s 
involvement,  has  been  able  to  register  commendable 
results  in  almost  all  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Eritrea’s  achievements  have  been 
commended  by  most  of  the  United  Nations  agencies 
and its development partners. Eritrea achieved MDGs 
4,  5  and  6,  namely,  reduction  in  child  mortality,  in 
maternal  mortality  and  in  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
other  communicable  diseases,  early  in  2013,  ahead  of 
the target date. 
Today, Eritrea is an oasis of peace in the vulnerable 
Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Red  Sea  region.  Ensuring 
food  security,  developing  infrastructure,  capacity-
building  and  providing  efficient  and  effective  social 
services  are  its  major  activities.  Under  the  motto 
“Education  for  all”,  education  in  Eritrea  is  universal 
and  free  from  kindergarten  to  the  tertiary  level.  The 
agenda of empowerment for women is on track; equal 
pay for equal work and women’s rights to inheritance 
and  to  own  property  are  guaranteed  by  law.  Female 
genital mutilation has been criminalized. The National 
Union  of  Eritrean  Women,  a  grass-roots  civil-society 
organization  with  over  400,000  members,  is  active 
all  over  the  country.  In  regard  to  the  environment, 
extensive  and  coordinated  grass-roots  forestation  and 
water-conservation activities are taking place.
Eritrea  once  again  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda.  Its  implementation  will  definitely 
consolidate  Eritrea’s  achievements  under  the  MDGs. 
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  appropriately 
emphasize  the  centrality  of  poverty  eradication.  Rest 
assured  that,  as  with  the  MDGs,  the  people  and  the 
Government  of  Eritrea  are  determined  to  achieve  the 
Goals and targets set in the 2030 Agenda, which will 
be  integrated  into  all  their  development  policies  and 
programmes.  Eritrea  is  also  committed  to  promoting 
investment,  cooperation  and  engagement  with  its 
development partners.
I  have  heard  speaker  after  speaker  emphasize  the 
need to bring about a transformative change all over the 
world and to pledge that “no one will be left behind”. 
Let all of us respect the letter and spirit of that noble 
pledge.  It  must  also  be  underlined  that  there  cannot 
be  sustainable  development  without  peace,  and  there 
cannot  be  peace  without  sustainable  development.  It 
is  therefore  high  time  for  the  United  Nations  and  all 
of us to shoulder our responsibilities and to urge those 
countries that do not respect international law and their 
treaty  obligations  to  do  so.  No  nation,  big  or  small, 
should  be  allowed  to  occupy  the  sovereign  territory 
of  another  State.  Moreover,  politically  motivated  and 
unjust sanctions definitely have a negative impact on the 
social and economic welfare of the people, particularly 
women  and  children.  They  must  be  immediately  and 
unconditionally lifted. Once again, no nation or people 
should be left behind.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the  the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Yemen.
Mr.  Abdullah  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  United  Nations  and  all  the  States  that  have  been 
assisting my country, Yemen, in overcoming the current 
12/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
challenges. We would like to extend our thanks to our 
brothers in the Gulf Cooperation Council, particularly 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which promptly set about 
forming a coalition with a view to saving Yemen.
to 
the 
transition 
post-2015 
The  year  2015  is  of  critical  importance  given 
the 
international 
development  agenda.  In  the  General  Assembly,  we 
are  working  to  implement  the  recently  adopted  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  with  its  three 
pillars  —  economic,  social  and  environmental.  It  is 
an agenda that caters to the ambitions of everyone all 
over  the  globe.  We  welcome  the  considerable  efforts 
made  to  arrive  at  the  outcome  document,  which  aims 
to eradicate poverty and hunger and to help us create a 
world characterized by human solidarity, with a view to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Despite the initial gains made in my country in the 
context of some of the MDGs over the past 15 years, the 
absence of development planning and vision during the 
33 years when former President Abdullah Saleh was in 
power, in addition to the various armed conflicts and 
terrorist incidents that have occurred over the past 50 
years,  forced  our  people  to  lead  a  life  devoid  of  any 
kind  of  development.  At  the  end  of  last  year,  Houthi 
militias and president Saleh carried out an armed coup 
d’état,  and  in  less  than  one  year  all  our  development 
gains were erased.
I  would  like  here  to  extend  our  many  thanks  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  his  Special 
Adviser  on  Yemen  as  well  as  to  the  United  Nations 
system as a whole and the international community for 
having stood by the legitimate Yemeni Government and 
its people so as to achieve peace, security and stability. 
This involved a number of resolutions adopted by the 
Security Council, the most recent of which is resolution 
2216  (2015),  which  reflects  the  priority  we  attach  to 
achieving development and making up for the losses we 
sustained as a result of the conflict and armed violence.
We  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
international community to the conflicts that are raging 
in  certain  countries,  with  a  view  to  achieving  peace, 
security, 
institution-building, 
so  that  the  peoples  of  those  countries  will  be  able  to 
relaunch their development process for a better future.
The  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger  is  a  main 
target  of  the  Summit.  Despite  the  decrease  in  the 
number  of  poor  people  and  the  measures  taken  to 
combat  poverty,  most  of  the  poor  live  in  rural  areas, 
reconstruction 
and 
and Governments cannot extricate them from the trap 
of  poverty  and  malnutrition.  These  problems  were 
intensified  as  a  result  of  the  armed  coup  d’état  and 
aggression,  as  well  as  the  killing  of  and  unjustifiable 
violence  against  civilians,  as  is  happening  in  Yemen. 
Armed  militias  are  not  abiding  by  the  resolutions  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
need  to  work  with  the  international  community  and 
the  United  Nations  to  stimulate  the  agricultural  and 
industrial  sectors  and  promote  rural  development  as 
well as combat malnutrition, with a view to achieving 
security and stability.
Yemen has many friends; many pledges and promises 
were made to support it and its development. We hope 
that this will continue, particularly as the infrastructure 
has been destroyed. This year has special importance 
for  us,  given  that  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change is to be held in Paris in 
December. Climate change is among the most serious 
challenges  facing  the  world.  It  threatens  development 
efforts,  the  combat  against  poverty,  agriculture  and 
various  other  sectors  of  developing  countries,  the 
least  developed  countries  in  particular.  They  threaten 
the  survival  of  many  countries,  particularly  the  least 
developed  countries  that  are  suffering  from  armed 
conflict. We hope that the Paris Conference will devise 
clear-cut  procedures  that  will  protect  our  national 
resources  and  ecological  diversity  and  ward  off  the 
looming dangers that constitute a major barrier to the 
achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
We  reiterate  the  need  to  take  measures  aimed 
at  changing  our  behaviour  as  individuals,  families, 
businesses and Governments in a manner that ensures 
sustainable  patterns  of  consumption  and  production. 
We  welcome  the  outcome  document  of  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
held  last  July  in  Addis  Ababa.  The  outcomes  of  the 
Conference  are  very  important,  and  States,  including 
those  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  must  implement 
their commitments to promote concrete results in terms 
of development.
the  pivotal 
We  emphasize 
role  undertaken 
by  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development.  As  the  least  developed  countries  were 
not able to achieve the MDGs so as to ensure the well-
being of their peoples, we would emphasize the need to 
provide them support in the areas of production growth, 
education,  training  and  technology  by  the  end  of  this 
year.
15-29241
13/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
I wish the Summit every success.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Investment 
Promotion of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Mr.  Omer  (Somalia):  The  Government  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia  is  proud  to  have  been 
involved  in  what  has  been  a  truly  inclusive  and 
transparent  process  during  the  negotiations  on  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  These  Goals 
will now succeed the Millennium Development Goals.
It is crucial that we complete what we as individual 
nations  ambitiously  started  in  order  to  create  a  more 
equitable,  secure  and  prosperous  world  for  each  and 
every human with whom we share the planet today and 
for those born tomorrow.
While it is impossible for all Member States to get 
what  they  want,  I  am  confident  that  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  provide  a  strong  framework  for 
the greatest challenges that the world faces collectively 
today.  The  challenges  of  today  are  ones  that  require 
common action through partnership in order to ensure 
security,  positive  progress  and  prosperity  for  all 
mankind.
It  is  not  possible,  in  a  globalized  age,  to  insulate 
one’s  nation  from  overarching  global  issues  such 
as  climate  change,  terrorism  and  poverty  without 
developing  solutions  and  partnerships  to  initiate, 
manage and sustain the progress we require at a global 
level.
Our message to all delegations gathered here during 
this historic Summit, during the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations, is that all partnerships, North-
South,  South-South,  business,  Government  and  civil 
society,  must  all  be  challenged  to  complement  one 
another.  This  is  the  only  way  fully  to  utilize  their 
abundant  resources,  in  order  to  provide  collective 
solutions  to  the  implementation  of  the  fundamental 
targets  to  be  met  by  2030.  There  cannot  be  finger-
pointing 15 years from now because we failed to work 
together, simply because the lives of billions of people 
depend  on  the  effective  outcome  of  our  commitment 
and  cooperation.  The  child  born  at  this  hour  will  be 
15  years  old  by  2030.  We  must  think  now  how  that 
precious child will evaluate our efforts. Will we have 
honoured  our  promises  to  that  child  or  will  we  have 
failed him? That is the stark and simple choice we face 
collectively  with  every  target  we  set  ourselves  under 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Somalia,  as  a  nation  that  has  exited  civil  war 
and  that  is  now  on  the  road  to  strong  recovery,  has 
argued for and continues to underline the importance 
of  supporting  post-conflict  nations  in  their  journeys 
to  peace,  stability  and  economic  recovery.  The  way 
out  of  violence  and  political  misunderstanding  is  a 
commitment to justice, humanity and good governance. 
All  those  universal  goals  are  the  prerequisites  for  a 
stable  world  and  a  conducive  environment  for  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
We  are  certain  that  this  is  not  the  end  of  the 
discussions or debates. We must now take the bold steps 
required to bring what is beautifully written on paper to 
life. The real challenge begins once we leave New York 
and return to our countries.
Somalia  is  ready  to  work  with  each  and  every 
partner and will embrace new ones in order to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  so  that  in  the 
future  we  as  a  nation  can  contribute  even  further  to 
the  stability,  progress  and  prosperity  of  our  world. 
The Somali people have a rich story to share and much 
to  contribute  to  the  global  community.  Many  in  the 
world came to know us in our previous chapter during 
conflict, in which we were survivors. Today, we embark 
on this current chapter, in which we will be known as 
builders,  as  we  work  towards  a  stable  and  peaceful 
society and region in the Horn of Africa and the wider 
world.  Now,  may  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
that  we  have  come  to  sign  act  as  the  pen  and  ensure 
that  in  our  nation’s  next  chapter  we  will  be  creators, 
innovators  and,  finally,  sustainers  contributing  to  the 
world in ways that bring peace, harmony and prosperity 
to our fellow man.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Secretary for Relations with States of the Holy 
See.
Archbishop Gallagher (Holy See): The Holy See 
wishes to congratulate the international community for 
adopting  the  post-2015  development  Agenda.  Indeed, 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  at  the  Summit  is  an  important  sign  of 
hope.
The  Holy  See  appreciates  the  Agenda’s  focus 
on  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger,  based  on 
the  centrality  of  the  human  person  and  the  related 
14/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
commitment to ensure that no one is excluded. Yesterday, 
Pope  Francis  reminded  the  Assembly  that  economic 
and  social  exclusion  is  a  complete  denial  of  human 
fraternity  and  a  grave  offence  against  human  rights 
and the environment. The 2030 Agenda should be built, 
he said, on the foundations of a right understanding of 
universal  fraternity  and  respect  for  the  sacredness  of 
every human life, of every man and every woman, the 
poor, the elderly, children, the infirm, the unborn, the 
unemployed, the abandoned. 
This  common  home  of  all  men  and  women  must 
also be built, he said, on the understanding of a certain 
sacredness of created nature. In this way, the pillars of 
integral human development — housing, dignified and 
properly remunerated employment, adequate food and 
drinking water; religious freedom and, more generally, 
spiritual  freedom  and  education  —  have  a  common 
foundation — the right to life and, more generally, what 
we could call the right to the existence of human nature 
itself.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Development  (resolution 
70/1)  can  be  effective  and  practical  if  it  provides 
immediate  access,  on  the  part  of  all,  to  essential 
material  goods  and  respect  for  people’s  freedom  to 
attain essential spiritual goods.
That poverty has many forms means that sustainable 
development can neither be conceived nor measured in 
mere  economic  and  statistical  terms.  Various  aspects 
of the 2030 Agenda pertain to human activity as such, 
and  for  that  reason  they  entail  an  ethical  dimension 
with attention to spiritual, moral and religious values, 
namely those categories which “transcend the language 
of  mathematics  and  biology,  and  take  us  to  the  heart 
of what is human” (see Laudato si’). For our own sake 
and  that  of  future  generations,  we  need  models  of 
development  that  do  not  compromise  human  dignity 
and the health of our environment. In the words of Pope 
Francis, 
“[W]e  must  avoid  every  temptation  to  fall  into  a 
declarationist  nominalism  which  would  assuage 
our  consciences  ...  We  need  to  ensure  that  our 
institutions  are  truly  effective  in  the  struggle 
against all these scourges” (A/70/PV.3, p. 4). 
It  is  widely  recognized  that  achieving  each  of 
the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  many 
related  targeted  targets  is  a  formidable  challenge. 
We  must  avoid  diverting  precious  resources  from  the 
pursuit of the most fundamental goals. In that regard, 
the Holy See has already made its reservations clearly 
known and is on record concerning certain targets as 
well as expressions.
In adopting the Agenda, the international community 
has chosen solidarity over egoism — solidarity with the 
excluded of today, solidarity with the poor of tomorrow, 
solidarity  with  future  generations.  The  family,  the 
natural and fundamental unit of society, is the primary 
agent  of  sustainable  development  and  therefore  the 
model  of  communion  and  solidarity  among  nations 
and  international  institutions.  A  shared  concern  for 
the  family  and  its  members  is  a  sure  contributor  to 
poverty  reduction,  better  outcomes  for  children, 
equality  between  girls  and  boys  and  women  and 
men,  improved  work-family  rest  balance  and  stronger 
intra- and inter-generational bonds. We would do well 
not  to  forget  the  ample  evidence  that  family-friendly 
policies, including respect for religion and the right of 
parents to educate their children, contribute effectively 
to  the  achievement  of  development  goals,  including 
the  cultivation  of  peaceful  societies.  Solidarity  and 
cooperation  are  not  mere  sentiments;  for  them  to  be 
genuine they must move us to action. 
Therefore, our choice must mean the determination 
to  mobilize  the  resources  needed  to  achieve  our 
commitment. It must mean building capacities in poorer 
countries at the earliest stages to ensure success. It must 
mean sharing with the poor countries the technological 
know-how  that  can  help  them  to  emancipate  their 
people  from  extreme  poverty  without  placing  heavy 
costs on the developed countries. It must mean, on the 
part of all, justice, the rule of law, a strong commitment 
to fighting corruption and a genuine spirit of service for 
the sake of the common good. 
Consequently, as we commit to the task of achieving 
the Goals of the 2030 Agenda, we must start with the 
conviction  of  our  common  origin,  our  history,  our 
common destiny. We are a single human family in need 
of one another, with shared responsibilities and with a 
common destiny inseparably linked to our planet, our 
common home, for which we all must care.
I would like to conclude by paraphrasing a passage 
from  the  Pastoral  Constitution  of  the  Second  Vatican 
Council,  Gaudium  et  Spes.  The  joys  and  the  hopes, 
the  grief  and  the  anguish  of  the  people  of  our  time, 
especially those who are poor or in any way afflicted, 
these are the joys and hopes, the grief and anguish of us 
all. Indeed, nothing genuinely human must ever fail to 
raise an echo in our hearts.
15-29241
15/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands.
Mr. DeBrum (Marshall Islands): I have the honour 
to convey warm greetings on behalf of His Excellency 
Christopher  Loeak,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands,  and  the  Marshallese  people.  The 
Marshall  Islands  is  proud  to  join  in  adopting  the 
United Nations post-2015 development agenda and the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
We  have  set  our  collective  sights  high  so  as  to 
continue to move the world out of poverty and towards 
a  sustainable  planet.  We  have  directed  our  collective 
sights across the full range of development challenges 
and  out  to  2030.  We  have  pushed  ourselves  beyond 
the usual strain of superficial rhetoric and set specific 
benchmarks to measure progress and address gaps. Our 
celebration, however, should be brief. It is now time to 
implement. 
In  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  as  with 
many  of  our  Pacific  neighbours,  oceans  define  our 
identity  and  future.  Achieving  the  oceans  SDG  will 
depend closely not only on partnerships but on renewed 
political will, in particular on the part of distant fishing 
nations  to  put  aside  their  immediate  economic  self-
interests  and  make  tough  choices  to  ensure  that  the 
world has a sustainable food source and that small island 
nations realize a much stronger benefit and participation 
with  regard  to  our  own  resource.  The  parties  to  the 
Nauru  Agreement  havecommitted  to  advancing  the 
world’s  largest  certified  sustainable  tuna  fishery.  Our 
success  will  depend  closely  on  other  nations  and  the 
private sector working as true partners — with us, not 
against us. 
It  is  right  that  the  SDGs  also  focus  on  climate 
change  and  sustainable  energy  as  urgent  priorities. 
Climate-driven impacts can easily erase any potential 
development  gains  and  are  an  unrivalled  long-term 
economic and security disaster. As a low-lying island 
nation  whose  long-term  future  is  entirely  at  risk  to 
rising seas, it is critical that we mark progress toward 
emerging resiliency with wider planning. We must also 
measure global progress toward stronger, renewable and 
efficient energy that will achieve decarbonization and 
delink  growth  from  pollution.  Ocean  thermal  energy 
conversion remains a powerful goal of self-sufficiency 
and renewable energy for my country, and all nations 
must further define their own ambitious paths. 
The SDGs have also rightfully incorporated gender 
as  an  important  benchmark.  Although  women  play  a 
powerful  role  in  our  traditional  culture,  too  often  the 
gender gap has persisted despite specific policies and 
good intentions.
It is also critical that the achievement of the SDGs 
not only rest with national Governments at the United 
Nations but include the full range of actors, including 
the  private  sector  and  our  regional  partners.  In  this 
regard,  and  following  the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership 
Framework,  it  is  important  to  fully  recognize  the 
participation  of  Taiwan  in  the  implementation  of  the 
SDGs.
For  a  small  island  nation  and  also  a  large  ocean 
country,  it  is  imperative  that  our  statistics  capacity 
receive  targeted  and  immediate  support  and  that 
we  devise  a  tailored  national  SDG  strategy  in  which 
we  move  forward  first  with  our  strongest  and  most 
deserving  priorities.  At  no  point  were  our  previous 
strategies  closely  aligned.  Our  national  policies, 
bilateral  foreign  assistance,  the  regional  Pacific  plan, 
the United Nations strategy for small island nations and 
the Millennium Development Goals were never mapped 
out together. It is little wonder that limited progress was 
achieved.
Today  we  all  have  the  opportunity  to  design 
things differently. We must forge closer links between 
the  SDGs  and  regional  platforms  as  well  as  with  our 
own  improved  national  strategic  plan,  which  utilizes 
the  recent  boost  in  national  fisheries  income  as  a 
targeted opportunity to invest in the SDGs and in our 
future. We need the full commitment of our close and 
traditional  partners  as  well  as  the  genuine  leadership 
of  non-traditional  sources  to  match  our  own  strong, 
national commitment.
Today is only the first step of many needed to forge 
a  closer  link  between  local  communities  and  global 
aspirations.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and Head 
of the Delegation of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I  convey  fraternal  greetings  from  our 
President, Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra, to this 
historic United Nations Summit to adopt the document to 
transform our world – the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  This  underscores  the 
16/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
importance of renewing our commitment to the peoples 
of the world and to Mother Earth for a world at peace, 
free of poverty and evil. 
This is a crucial moment, when the evaluation and 
culmination  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
that  we  agreed  upon  15  years  ago  coincide  with  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations,  whose  purpose  is  peace  and  the  social  and 
economic  development  of  our  peoples.  During  those 
70 years, the world has continued to witness conflicts 
that  clearly  disrupt  international  peace  and  security 
with  wars  of  aggression,  military 
interventions, 
occupation of sovereign countries, and policies aimed at 
changing regimes. That has undermined and decreased 
the  development  achieved  in  States  that  had  brought 
security and prosperity to their peoples. It has created 
the  conditions  for  the  spread  of  violent  extremism 
and international terrorism to the point of controlling 
territories, leading to the current crisis of millions of 
refugees  whose  numbers  are  increasing  daily.  How 
can  we  explain  to  these  millions  of  men,  women  and 
children  who  have  nothing  to  eat,  who  lack  shelter, 
education  and  health  that  there  is  money  for  military 
expenses, for war and intervention but that there are no 
budgets for development projects or for our people to 
live well and in harmony with Mother Earth?
We  are  among  the  countries  that  have  achieved 
a  reduction  in  poverty  and  hunger.  However,  we 
have  been  unable  to  fully  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) or all the strategic targets 
at a global level. Doing so is key for the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  whose  implementation 
must  be  governed  by  the  principle  of  shared  but 
differentiated  responsibilities  if  we  are  to  change  the 
current economic order, establish a new economic and 
financial model and create new patterns of production 
and consumption consistent with living sustainably.
Our  President  describes  the  current  economic 
model as one that encourages economic development. 
He  says  that,  our  struggle  to  achieve  sustainable 
development  notwithstanding,  what  has  prevailed  and 
continues to be practised is unsustainable development, 
which  gives  rise  to  inequality  and  poverty.  That  is 
why  our  major  challenge  must  be  to  implement  the 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  with  the 
priority of eradicating poverty and inequality by 2030. 
Pope Francis inspired us with his presence at the United 
Nations and his contribution of the encyclical entitled 
Laudato  Si’.  We  espouse  those  same  sentiments. 
Everyone  should  be  mindful  of  the  encyclical  when 
implementing the Agenda.
To achieve the outstanding MDGs and to implement 
the  SDGs,  it  is  vital  that  developing  countries  have 
access  to  technological  and  financial  resources.  They 
must be able to build their capacities and to enjoy the 
political space to enable them to promote their national 
policies and sovereignty. Nicaragua has made progress 
in meeting its commitments to the MDGs and, today, is 
closer to achieving all of them.
the  capacity 
Our  Christian  and  socialist  model  of  solidarity, 
under 
the  political  guidance  of  our  President, 
Commander  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  our  national 
human  development  plan  and 
for 
organization  and  mobilization  of  our  people  have 
been the determining factors in reducing poverty and 
economic  and  gender  inequality.  Nicaragua  is  among 
the leading countries of the world when it comes to the 
number of women in the executive branch, Parliament 
and  municipal  government,  as  noted  by  the  World 
Economic  Forum  gender-gap  index.  Our  Government 
believes  that  emphasis  on  the  role  of  women  is  an 
essential factor in policies for sustainable development. 
These  include  access  to  land,  property  and  loans  and 
programmes  that  provide  capital  for  rural  and  urban 
women, such as Zero Hunger and Zero Usury.
As  part  of  our  commitment,  and  with  a  view 
to  having  a  positive  impact  on  the  new  Agenda,  we 
would like to propose to the international community 
an  international  campaign  on  access  to  safe  surgery, 
without which more deaths occur every year — chiefly 
among the poorest and most vulnerable peoples of the 
world — than are caused by malaria, tuberculosis and 
HIV/AIDS combined. 
The people of Nicaragua regard the implementation 
of  the  2030  as  an  opportunity  for  the  international 
community  to  renew  and  strengthen  its  commitment 
and solidarity with the peoples of the world by driving 
human  development,  while  promoting  climatic  and 
social  justice,  peace  and  harmony,  and  respect  for 
territorial  integrity  and  the  self-determination  of 
peoples,  and  ensuring  the  survival  of  the  human  race 
and the rights of Mother Earth.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Head of Delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  my 
15-29241
17/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
country’s  thanks  to  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Summit  for 
their  work  in  organizing  it.  The  Government  of  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the 
post-2015 development Agenda, which is an ambitious 
road  map  for  achieving  sustainable  development 
in  its  three  dimensions  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental — for all peoples of the world.
In  regard  to  the  Agenda,  Syria  emphasizes  that 
the  developed  countries  have  a  commitment  and 
historical responsibility to support the national efforts 
of developing countries to achieve development. In so 
doing,  they  must  abide  by  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  respect  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Member  States.  It  is  on  that  basis  that 
we  should  all  work  globally  to  achieve  sustainable 
development.
The  Agenda  incorporates  an  understanding  of 
the  most  important  dimensions  and  reasons  for  the 
deterioration  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
conditions  —  migration  and  the  lack  of  stability  in 
the Middle East — which are the result of occupation, 
invasion  and  terrorism.  Situated  in  the  heart  of  the 
region, Syria is suffering, for the fourth straight year, 
from an unprecedented wave of extremism and terrorism 
controlled  by  outsiders.  It  is  a  terrorism  that  burns 
everything  around  it  and  wipes  out  the  development 
achievements  of  the  Syrian  people,  a  terrorism  that 
has  been  attempting  to  destroy  the  economy  of  Syria 
and its infrastructure, while systematically stealing its 
natural  resources.  The  terrorists  continue  to  threaten 
the security and safety of the people, to nullify the role 
and energies of young people and women and to ruin 
the Syrian civilization. 
The  current  wave  of  terrorism  would  not  have 
happened had it not been for the erroneous policies of 
some and the lack of insight of others. Events in Syria 
and throughout the region can be explained by the fact 
that some States have become involved in fuelling crises 
to  achieve  their  unethical  political  interests,  while 
others have turned a blind eye. The failure to participate 
in  combating  the  spread  of  terrorism  and  extremism 
in the region has meant that terrorism and extremism 
have  now  spread  throughout  the  world.  Terrorists 
now  use  modern  information  and  communications 
technology  and  receive  financial  assistance.  Clearly, 
what  is  happening  in  Syria  is  a  wave  of  terrorism 
and  extremism  led  not  only  by  terrorists,  extremists 
and brokers but also by well-known international and 
regional intelligence services.
Everyone knows where the fatwas of terrorism are 
issued — the fatwas that incite Syrians to rise against 
each  other.  Everyone  knows  who  gives  weapons  and 
logistical  support  and  monthly  salaries  to  foreign 
mercenaries  and  terrorists.  Everyone  knows  who 
facilitates  the  transborder  crossings  of  mercenaries 
and  terrorists  into  Syria  to  attack  and  destroy  its 
institutions and to threaten the very security and safety 
of its citizens. Everyone makes fun of and mocks those 
who  promise  paradise  to  the  followers  who  cross  the 
borders with the terrorists. 
The  ultimate  goal  of  the  terrorists  is  to  destroy 
Syria  as  a  citadel  of  moderation,  tolerance  and 
peaceful  coexistence.  We  are  currently  witnessing  a 
conflict  between  moderation  and  radicalism,  between 
civilization/development 
and 
between stability and anarchy. Day in and day out, we 
witness killings and acts of destruction carried out by 
Daesh and the Al-Nusra Front as well as other terrorist 
organizations in Syria, which are, abominably, termed 
the  moderate  armed  opposition,  which  surrendered 
their weapons to the terrorist Al-Nusra Front, as noted 
today by the Pentagon’s Central Command.
and  backwardness, 
The  armed  moderate  opposition  has  daily 
bombarded civilians in hundreds of towns and villages 
with  thousands  of  rockets  and  mortar  shells,  killing 
thousands and destroying public and private property. 
As the Assembly is aware, Syrian and Iraqi oil is being 
stolen by terrorists and sold to European Union States 
through Turkish brokers. In addition, everyone here is 
familiar  with  the  destruction  of  the  Syrian  and  Iraqi 
world cultural heritage, as was seen in Palmyra, Mosul 
and Nimrud.
Given  the  extent  to  which  we  have  suffered 
from  terrorism,  we  strongly  support  the  reference  to 
combating terrorism as a priority to achieve sustainable 
development.  Combating  terrorism  should  take  place 
on  the  basis  of  respect  for  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  principles  of  international  law;  the 
implementation of the relevant resolutions on the combat 
against terrorism; identifying and holding accountable 
individuals 
the  Governments,  organizations  and 
immediate 
terrorists;  providing 
that  have  helped 
international 
combat 
terrorism, 
economically, militarily and politically; and preventing 
terrorists from benefiting from modern technology in 
order to proliferate their terrorist ideology and finance 
their operations.
cooperation 
to 
18/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
The other barrier to sustainable development in our 
region  is  the  Israeli  occupation,  which  has  continued 
for  more  than  six  decades  and  enjoys  the  protection 
of  some  influential  Powers  in  this  Organization, 
which protects them from any accountability vis-à-vis 
violations and crimes against Palestinians, and Syrians 
in the Golan. That has brought the process of achieving 
peace, stability. security and development in the region 
to a standstill.
Despite  our  agreements, 
the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012 and the 
adoption of dozens of resolutions emphasizing the need 
for  sanctions,  which  distort  amicable  relations  among 
States, to be eradicated, it continues to spread because 
certain influential forces and Powers depend on these 
economic  sanctions.  They  paid  no  heed  to  the  living 
conditions or the development of peoples. These illegal 
measures have twice the impact when they are imposed 
on poor developing countries and those suffering from 
terrorism, conflicts, natural disasters and occupation.
Some  States  have  imposed  unilateral  economic 
sanctions  against 
important  Syrian  sectors  such 
as  trade,  financing,  energy  and  investment.  That 
has  harmed  Syria  considerably,  undermined 
its 
development,  adversely  affected  the  living  conditions 
and well-being of Syrians and caused a major shortage 
of  relief  and  medical  materials.  The  Syrians  consider 
their  exceptional  conditions  that  require  international 
solidarity  and  support  for  their  country  and  its 
institutions.  They  do  not  believe  that  they  should  be 
punished  economically  in  a  manner  that  adds  to  the 
burden imposed by terrorism, which has forced many 
of our people to flee the country.
In  conclusion,  the  phenomenon  of  migration  is 
a  result  of  the  erroneous  approach  adopted  by  some 
States  against  some  developing  countries:  the  lack 
of  seriousness  in  supporting  developing  countries 
economically  and  the  participation  by  some  States  in 
fuelling crises and interfering in the stability of other 
States and in the options and choices of their peoples, 
as  well  as  intervention  in  their  internal  affairs,  as  in 
my country; occupation, as is happening in Palestine; 
invasion,  as  happened  in  Iraq  and  Libya;  and  the 
imposition of unilateral economic sanctions, as in Cuba, 
Iran,  Belarus,  the  Sudan  and  Venezuela.  Everyone 
knows  the  results  of  that  approach:  unprecedented 
migration.
Addressing the refugee crisis cannot be resolved by 
collecting money here. Rather, the parties I mentioned 
must  cease  supporting  terrorism  and  stop  exporting 
terrorists and mercenaries from all over the world into 
my country.
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  urge  all 
delegations  to  abide  by  the  time  limit.  There  are 
17  delegations  waiting  to  speak.  I  plead  with  all 
representatives to abide by that time limit.
I now call on the Head of Delegation of the Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau.
Mr.  Da  Gama  (Guinea-Bissau):  Allow  me,  on 
behalf  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea-
Bissau, Mr. José Mário Vaz — who, unfortunately, is 
not able to be present here as we adopt the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  because  of  his  personal 
engagement  to  ensure  that  a  new,  stable  Government 
is  put  in  place  as  soon  as  possible  —  to  convey  our 
appreciation 
the  Secretary-General  for  having 
organized  this  Summit  and  also  to  congratulate  the 
co-Chairs for conducting the work of the Summit.
to 
Seventy  years  after  the  foundation  of  the  United 
Nations, no anniversary celebration could be better than 
this event, at which we are all realizing that it is time to 
look at development issues from a different perspective, 
by  taking  everyone  on  board.  Poverty  and  hunger 
cannot  be  tolerated  in  a  world  where  so  many  great 
technological  achievements  have  been  made.  It  could 
not be more timely to recognize that the achievement 
of  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable  development,  the 
economic, social and environmental, is possible only if 
we do so together by leaving no one behind and taking 
into  account  all  relevant  principles,  such  as  those  of 
common but differentiated responsibilities.
Fifteen years ago, world leaders met in this same 
Hall and agreed on the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  to  be  achieved  by  2015.  Some  countries, 
especially  least  developed  countries  such  as  my  own, 
Guinea-Bissau,  were  not  able  to  accomplish  those 
Goals, for a multitude of reasons. Their fragility, which 
makes them more prone to internal and external shocks, 
and  their  structural  challenges  made  it  more  difficult 
for  them  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  thereby 
achieve these Goals.
This  time  we  believe  that  we  can  commit  to 
the  SDGs  with  a  different  outlook  and  assume  the 
responsibilities  needed  to  give  our  countries  a  better 
15-29241
19/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
chance  for  the  achievement  of  the  17  Goals  built  on 
the foundation of the outcome document of the United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, “The 
future  we  want”.  We  would  essentially  consider  them 
to be a continuation of the unaccomplished MDGs but 
with more precise implementation strategies. Developed 
countries, our partners, should do their part and honour 
their commitments with respect to official development 
assistance  and  other  funds  for  development,  such  as 
the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
of the third International Conference on Financing for 
Development, as well as all the outcomes of other major 
international  conferences  in  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental fields. 
With  the  help  of  those  more  capable,  it  is  time 
for  all  of  us  to  make  a  greater  effort  to  do  more  for 
our  populations  by  recognizing  where  we  are  in  our 
development  and  to  create  concrete  strategies  for 
achieving the new Goals. In this respect, Guinea-Bissau 
is aware of how far behind it stands. The Government, 
in a bid to achieve political stability through inclusive 
development and the preservation of biodiversity, aims 
through  its  development  strategy  plan  for  2015-2025, 
known  as  “Terra  Ranka”,  to  convert  three  decades  of 
poverty  and  instability  into  positive  transformation 
within  10  years.  This  10-year  vision,  in  which  the 
SDGs are well incorporated, is therefore an agenda for 
change, focusing on a multitude of areas such as peace 
and governance, biodiversity and the sustainable use of 
natural  resources,  urban  infrastructure  development, 
human  development,  the  business  environment  and 
private sector development.
In  Guinea-Bissau,  which  has  long  been  battling 
instability,  we  strongly  believe  that,  to  achieve  this 
development vision, a major reform of the justice, defence 
and  security  sectors,  as  well  as  the  modernization  of 
the  State  institutions,  is  needed.  This  will  help  us  to 
strengthen  our  democracy  and  social  cohesion,  with 
a  view  to  maintaining  sustainable  peace,  promoting 
inclusive economic growth and lifting our people out of 
poverty. In this regard, we call upon our development 
partners  and  friends  to  help  in  the  stabilization  of 
Guinea-Bissau  and  to  support  the  implementation  of 
the  strategic  plan  my  country  presented  to  the  donor 
round table held in Brussels last March by honouring 
the pledges made.
Just  as  we  all  agree  that  there  is  a  need  for  a 
more just world, we should also agree that there is an 
urgent need to narrow the gap between rich and poor 
and  to  help  countries  like  ours  reach  a  higher  level 
of  development.  However,  the  question  remains:  how 
can  that  be  achieved  without  proper  assistance  and 
commitment from our partners? 
How  can  a  least  developed  country  (LDC)  in 
Africa,  like  Guinea-Bissau  with  a  population  of 
1.7  million  and  a  poverty  rate  of  69.3  per  cent,  do  it 
without  proper  support  and  assistance?  How  can  we 
do  it  without  proper  official  development  assistance 
and  foreign  direct  investment  inflows?  How  can  we 
do  it  without  proper  infrastructure  and  basic  services 
such as energy so that we can fit into today’s world of 
technology?  How  can  we  have  food  security  without 
proper  agricultural  technologies  for  better  production 
while protecting our lands from degradation? How can 
we  do  it  when  the  access  to  international  markets  for 
our  mostly  agricultural  products  is  so  difficult?  How 
can we manage our debts with the conditions imposed 
by  the  international  financial  institutions  that  are 
supposed to help us? 
The truth is that we cannot do it alone. Our partners 
are needed on board, with full and honest commitment. 
As  His  Holiness  Pope  Francis  said  yesterday  in  this 
Hall,  these  partnerships  are  needed  to  make  the 
SDGs  a  reality  and  create  a  just  world  where  peace 
and  sustainable  development  for  all  is  possible  (see 
A/70/PV.3).
Peace  and  development  go  hand  in  hand.  They 
complement  each  other.  My  country,  Guinea-Bissau, 
was  able  to  demonstrate  the  fact  that  with  stability 
and  good  governance  some  improvement  is  possible. 
After  the  2014  election,  through  its  economic  reform 
strategy, the Government was able to improve life for 
the population and raise the gross domestic product by 
more  than  5  per  cent  in  a  period  of  one  year.  South-
South  and  triangular  cooperation  are  also  essential 
for  developing  countries,  especially  for  LDCs,  owing 
to the fact that it is easier for developing countries to 
understand the many constraints faced by LDCs. At the 
same time, we should emphasize that, in no way should 
it be taken as a substitute for North-South cooperation, 
which is pivotal for the sustainable development of our 
countries.
It is important, however, to note that each country 
is responsible for its own development and has the right 
to set its development strategy in accordance with its 
national priorities and level of development. To this end, 
coordination  between  national  authorities  and  among 
20/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
donors is crucial to ensure better implementation and a 
global partnership for development.
The  role  of  women  is  very  important  in  all  our 
societies  and  countries.  Women  should  be  respected 
as equal partners in the development of our countries, 
especially  in  the  course  of  implementing  the  new 
Agenda.  We  should  all  commit  to  creating  inclusive 
societies  where  women  are  empowered  to  have  the 
same rights as men.
The  recognized  vulnerability  of  the  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  must  be  taken  fully  into 
account in the new Agenda, and a strong commitment 
to  implementing  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  is  the  right  way  to  start. 
As  we  aim  for  a  just  world  socioeconomically,  we 
should promote a safe planet for future generations of 
humankind by finding solutions to mitigate the adverse 
impact of climate change. In many countries, including 
my own, sea-level rise and coastal erosion is already a 
reality.  For  SIDS,  this  reality  is  a  matter  of  survival. 
The  very  existence  of  many  islands  and  their  people 
is threatened. Ocean acidification and overfishing are 
destroying  our  oceans  and  threatening  the  future  of 
our planet. Islands feel the first impact, but in the end 
we will all pay a high price with the destruction of the 
life-support system of our planet. 
We should strive to cut greenhouse gas emissions 
and promote adequate funding for adaptation, resilience 
and the mitigation of climate change while looking for 
greater commitment from our partners in the upcoming 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, to be held in Paris later this year, where nations 
should  take  full  responsibility  for  a  cleaner  and  safer 
planet for present and future generations.
Finally,  many  commitments  have  been  made  in 
this Hall, and we have all drawn the same conclusion 
and recognized that there is still much to be done. As 
we  accept  the  new  challenge  of  the  2030  Agenda,  we 
should try harder and do better going forward so that 
we  do  not  fail  the  very  poor  of  this  world  again.  We 
must bring hope to our children’s generation with real 
sustainable development for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  the  Head  of  Delegation  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica.
Mr.  Henderson  (Dominica):  The  development 
challenges faced by developing countries, and especially 
small island developing States (SIDS), find their roots 
in  historical  global  inequities  that  persist  today.  The 
lopsided  governance  of  international  institutions  and 
the failure of the industrialized countries to take on their 
responsibilities for climate change continue to be major 
obstacles  to  our  development.  Therefore,  in  order  for 
us to achieve our lofty Sustainable Development Goals, 
we  must  commit  to  re-engineering  the  governance 
of  our  multilateral  institutions  and  recognizing  our 
common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  to  create 
equity,  fairness,  justice,  peace  and  security  for  our 
people and for our environment. That must begin with 
the industrialized countries accepting and shouldering 
their responsibilities for placing our planet in peril.
Climate change is a real and present, not a future, 
danger to the continued existence of those of us who call 
small islands our homes. Therefore, it is pointless for us 
to discuss Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for a 
future that may not exist for many small and low-lying 
States. The Government of Dominica therefore calls on 
all Member States to commit to reducing and replacing 
the  activities  that  contribute  to  climate  change  at  the 
next  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris in 
December.
A  little  over  four  weeks  ago,  on  27  August,  the 
people  of  Dominica  were  reminded  of  the  reality  of 
climate change when, over a 16-hour period, 18 inches 
of rain from tropical storm Erika left 13 confirmed dead, 
while  17  people  are  still  missing.  Erika  also  wreaked 
havoc on our infrastructure, to the tune of almost half 
a billion dollars. In less than 24 hours, Erika wiped out 
82  per  cent  of  our  country’s  gross  domestic  product. 
That  means  that  funds  that  were  allocated  to  lifting 
more  of  our  people  out  of  poverty  and  to  continuing 
on a development path to allow our country to meet its 
SDGs will now have to be redirected towards rebuilding 
and creating greater resilience to protect our people and 
our island from other devastating hydrometeorological 
events caused by climate change. The Government and 
the people of Dominica express our gratitude to all the 
countries and organizations that came to our aid during 
our time of need.
We are gratified to see several of our priority issues 
reflected in the post-2015 development agenda: the need 
to build resilience, conserve and sustainably use oceans 
and seas, food security, water and sanitation, affordable, 
reliable and sustainable energy, crime, climate change 
and sustainable consumption and production. Dominica 
15-29241
21/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
is committed to seeing this Agenda fully realized and 
therefore will continue to actively do its part within the 
limits of its resources. But we also recognize that the 
means of implementation are critical to the realization of 
the 17 SDGs. The Addis Ababa Action Agenda provides 
a  mechanism  for  developing  countries  to  meet  the 
SDGs. One area that must be addressed expeditiously 
is  the  financing  challenge  faced  by  middle-income 
countries such as Dominica. In order for those of us in 
SIDS to take advantage of such development financing, 
we must be recognized and treated as a special category 
by multilateral partners and organizations.
The  measure  of  per  capita  income  distorts  the 
true  situation  in  most  SIDS.  The  vulnerability  of 
middle-income  SIDS  to  climate-change  events  and 
their  level  of  indebtedness  must  also  be  considered 
qualifying criteria for official development assistance 
and  concessionary  financing.  Dominica 
therefore 
reiterates  the  call  in  clause  62  of  the  Addis  Accord 
that  specifies  “the  need  to  devise  methodologies  to 
better account for the complex and diverse realities of 
middle-income countries”.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The Government of Dominica is convinced that the 
SDGs  are  achievable.  However,  a  strong  commitment 
to  protecting  our  planet  within  a  framework  that  is 
fair and equitable is critical and must be buttressed by 
durable and genuine partnerships, with mutual respect 
between  and  among  States.  Development  partners, 
especially  intergovernmental  agencies  and  financial 
institutions, must become more responsive to the needs 
of SIDS. Their interventions, therefore, must reflect the 
aspirations of the people and be informed by genuine 
participation  and  local  ownership.  The  traditional 
North-South  relationship  must  be  reset  to  embrace 
collaboration and cooperation rather than prescription 
and dictation. That new paradigm should be enhanced 
by South-South and triangular cooperation in order to 
solve some of the greatest challenges of our time.
Development is about people. Let us therefore take 
immediate  action  to  create  a  better  world  for  all  our 
people.
The Acting President: I now call on the President 
of the International Olympic Committee.
Mr. Bach (International Olympic Committee): On 
behalf of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), 
thanks  go 
I would like to congratulate the United Nations Summit 
on the historic adoption of the Sustainable Development 
Goals.  My 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  to  the  United  Nations  Group  of  Friends  of 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and  to  the  many 
Governments  on  all  five  continents  that  allowed  the 
IOC to take part in the comprehensive consultations.
As  a  Permanent  Observer  to  the  United  Nations, 
the  IOC  not  only  has  actively  accompanied  but 
wholeheartedly 
the  2030  Sustainable 
Development Agenda (resolution 70/10. I would like to 
thank Member States for recognizing the contribution 
of  sport  to  sustainable  development  and  to  advancing 
progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
supports 
The new Agenda specifically acknowledges
“the growing contribution of sport to the realization 
of  development  and  peace  in  its  promotion  of 
tolerance  and  respect  and  the  contributions  it 
makes to the empowerment of women and of young 
people, individuals and communities as well as to 
health,  education  and  social  inclusion  objectives” 
(resolution 70/1, para. 37).
In  other  words,  sport  is  a  natural  partner  when 
it  comes  to  realizing  the  2030  Development  Agenda. 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  put  it  best  when 
he  described  Olympic  principles  as  “United  Nations 
principles”. The IOC shares the important goal of the 
peaceful  development  of  humanity,  Given  our  shared 
values  of  tolerance,  solidarity  and  peace,  we  are 
committed  to  contributing  to  the  realization  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Let  us  continually 
strengthen our partnership to work together for a better 
world.
Shaping 
the 
is 
future  of  humankind 
the 
overarching  theme  of  this  United  Nations  Summit. 
For the international community, the 2030 Sustainable 
Development  Agenda  addresses  future  social  and 
economic  progress.  For  the  Olympic  Movement,  the 
Olympic Agenda 2020 addresses progress with regard 
to sustainability, credibility and youth. Therefore, with 
this Olympic Agenda 2020, the IOC is absolutely in line 
with the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. Sport can help to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  in  very  concrete  ways.  Its  global 
reach  and  universality  make  sport  a  low-cost,  high-
impact tool to support all countries — big or small, rich 
or  poor,  North  or  South.  The  cross-cutting  nature  of 
22/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
sport  allows  it  to  address  several  of  the  Goals  at  the 
same time.
Goal  3  calls  for 
the  attainment  of  healthy 
lifestyles:  sport  has  an  essential  role  in  combating 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  are  all  too  often 
caused  by  physical  inactivity  and  poor  nutrition. 
Regular  exercise  is  one  of  the  best  ways  to  prevent 
illness and disease; hence, sport helps to significantly 
reduce  health-care  costs  and  increase  productivity. 
Sport and education go hand in hand: sport and physical 
education  programmes  promote  school  attendance 
and  help  to  improve  learning  performance.  Research 
demonstrates that sport improves learning by deepening 
concentration  capabilities.  That  is  key  to  achieving 
Goal 4, on quality education.
Sport  is  a  powerful  platform  for  fostering  gender 
equality  and  empowering  women  and  girls,  as  called 
for  in  Goal  5.  One  of  the  key  missions  of  the  IOC  is 
the promotion of women in sport at all levels. Women 
athletes and Olympians can serve as inspirational role 
models for young girls around the world. Just last month, 
the  IOC  implemented  the  gender-balanced  sports 
programme for the Buenos Aires 2018 Youth Olympic 
Games. For the first time, there will be absolutely equal 
numbers  of  girls  and  boys  competing  at  these  Youth 
Olympic Games.
Sport  is  an  important  tool  for  peacebuilding  and 
preventing conflict, thereby supporting Goal 16. Sport 
can  promote  social  inclusion,  build  trust  and  foster  a 
culture of peace between groups in conflict. Through 
its  206  national  Olympic  committees,  the  Olympic 
Movement unites all people and builds bridges between 
all  cultures.  In  Olympic  sport,  all  people  are  equal, 
regardless  of  their  ethnicity,  gender  or  faith  —  that 
is  the  Olympic  spirit  of  unity  in  diversity.  Another 
example of how sport can promote peace and inclusion 
occurred only last month, when the IOC recognized the 
national Olympic committee of South Sudan. With that 
recognition,  we  wanted  to  send  a  signal  of  hope  to  a 
young nation and its people. The President of the newly 
recognized  national  Olympic  committee  of  South 
Sudan  informed  those  present  at  the  IOC  ceremony: 
“We will arm our young people with sport, and not with 
guns”. As a powerful and active player in civil society, 
Olympic  sport  can  make  a  meaningful  contribution 
to  global  partnerships  for  sustainable  development, 
strengthening Goal 17.
A  central  theme  of  the  Olympic  Agenda  2020  is 
that  progress  needs  cooperation.  In  order  for  sport  to 
serve humankind, sport must engage with society. Just 
a year ago in Haiti, we were honoured by the presence 
of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  as  we  opened  the 
Sport  for  Hope  Centre  together.  The  Centre  is  a  joint 
initiative  of  the  IOC  and  key  partners,  including  the 
United  Nations.  The  Centre  provides  sport,  health 
and  educational  activities  for  Haitians  from  all  walks 
of  life.  Similarly,  the  IOC  works  in  partnership  with 
foundations and local sports associations across Africa 
to support a network of 52 centres in 43 countries. That 
has  already  brought  sport  and  educational  activities 
to  more  than  1  million  young  Africans  all  over  the 
continent.
Perhaps 
the  most  prominent  example  of 
the 
influence  of  our  partnership  with  the  United  Nations 
comes from the tradition of the Olympic Truce. The IOC 
is  grateful  that  the  General  Assembly  has  supported 
that tradition before every Olympic Games since 1994. 
By  adopting  resolutions  in  the  past  two  years,  the 
General Assembly has acknowledged the contribution 
of  the  Olympic  Games  to  fostering  international 
understanding and peace. We believe that that message 
of our shared values of tolerance, solidarity and peace 
is more relevant than ever.
The  International  Olympic  Committee  is  built  on 
the  belief  that  sport  can  contribute  to  peace  and  the 
harmonious  development  of  humankind.  Today,  as 
the world ushers in a new era of development, we are 
truly honoured to be a committed partner of the United 
Nations  in  making  the  world  a  better  place  through 
sport. The United Nations and all its Member States can 
count on the unwavering support of the IOC to achieve 
that noble goal.
The Acting President: I now call on the Director-
International  Development  Law 
the 
General  of 
Organization.
Ms.  Khan 
(International  Development  Law 
Organization): As the head of the only intergovernmental 
organization exclusively devoted to advancing the rule 
of law and development, I am honoured to address this 
historic Summit.
In  a  groundbreaking  move,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) has put the 
rule  of  law  firmly  at  the  heart  of  development.  It  no 
longer  is  an  optional  extra  but  is  a  premise  without 
which  development  cannot  be  sustained.  Goal  16 
acknowledges that access to justice, the rule of law and 
effective, inclusive institutions are essential ingredients 
15-29241
23/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
of  sustainable  development.  Clean  government  is  as 
important as clean water.
But  the  relationship  between  the  rule  of  law  and 
the  2030  Agenda  goes  deeper  than  Goal  16.  The 
rule  of  law  is  about  equal  protection,  accountability 
and  transparency.  In  that  sense,  it  cuts  across  all  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Without  access  to 
justice and the rule of law, development cannot flourish, 
investment will not take root, the planet cannot survive, 
the poor cannot overcome poverty, and women cannot 
fight  discrimination  and  become  agents  of  their  own 
destiny.
No  matter  where  in  the  development  spectrum  a 
particular country stands, establishing peace, protecting 
the planet, eradicating poverty or encouraging economic 
opportunity  requires  good  laws  and  regulations  that 
are fairly administered by transparent and accountable 
institutions  and  that,  first  and  foremost,  produce  fair 
outcomes for all.
Agenda 2030 is an inspiring document — but it will 
become truly transformative only when the words are 
converted  into  action.  As  an  organization  that  works 
on  the  ground  to  enable  Governments  and  empower 
people to reform laws and institutions, we are acutely 
aware  of  the  challenges  that  face  countries  emerging 
from conflict or striving towards democracy or seeking 
to  build  their  economies.  In  practical  terms,  this 
means drafting good constitutions, reforming laws and 
courts,  empowering  citizens,  ensuring  gender  justice, 
regulating  fair  access  to  services,  promoting  land 
policies that enhance food security and fiscal regimes 
that encourage foreign direct investment, and so on.
Building the rule of law requires vision, time and 
money, but it is the soundest investment there is. The 
more  Governments  and  the  international  community 
are  willing  to  invest  in  it,  the  less  they  will  have  to 
scramble to address catastrophic development failures 
from famine to refugee crises. Building the rule of law 
and  ensuring  access  to  justice  is  more  efficient  than 
mending the broken pieces when States fail.
It is no mere coincidence that the icon for Goal 16 
that the United Nations has designed, the dove of peace,  
is holding firmly onto the gavel of justice. The message 
is clear: peace, progress and sustainability are built on 
the foundations of justice. Justice must come first, and 
the International Development Law Organization will 
play its part in making that happen with the support of 
the General Assembly.
The Acting President: I now call on the Secretary-
General  of  the  International  Institute  for  Democracy 
and Electoral Assistance.
Mr. Leterme (International Institute for Democracy 
and  Electoral  Assistance):  As  a  plan  of  action  for 
people, the planet and prosperity, which seeks also to 
strengthen universal peace in larger freedom, the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
is an ambitious road map for change. The adoption of 
the  Agenda  is  a  historic  pledge  to  eradicate  poverty 
while at the same time reverse the tide of environmental 
degradation.  Turning  it  into  reality  will,  however, 
require the involvement and engagement of the people.
The  International  Institute  for  Democracy  and 
Electoral  Assistance —  International  IDEA  —  as  the 
sole intergovernmental organization with an exclusive 
mandate  on  democracy  and  electoral  assistance,  has 
advocated  a  democracy  lens  in  the  definition  of  the 
Agenda.  Attention  to  the  three  dimensions  of  social, 
economic  and  environmental 
sustainability  has 
guided the deliberations of Member States. In addition 
to  them,  I  strongly  believe  that  there  are  political 
dimensions  essential  to  delivering  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  They  are  related  to  such 
issues as democratic accountability to citizens, country 
ownership,  coherence  across  a  wide  range  of  public 
policies  and  the  mobilization  of  the  material  and 
non-material  resources  necessary  for  turning  deeds 
into action.
The Agenda could have been bolder in recognizing 
the importance of democratic governance. Its approval, 
however, is an impressive achievement and an example 
of  multilateralism  at  its  best.  Let  me  detail  three 
remarkable facts.
includes  key  Goals 
First,  the  Declaration  underscores  the  importance 
of  democracy,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law 
for  sustainable  development.  Secondly,  the  SDGs 
framework 
for  democratic 
development, such as Goal 5, on gender equality; Goal 
10,  on  reducing  extreme  inequality;  and  Goal  16,  on 
peaceful,  inclusive  societies,  justice  and  accountable 
institutions.  Thirdly, 
transparency 
and  inclusivity  of  the  consultation  process  gave  an 
unprecedented space for engagement with many actors. 
Those  included  national  parliaments,  civil-society 
organizations, academia, local actors, the private sector 
and other major groups. Alongside Governments, they 
the  openness, 
24/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
will  all  play  a  key  role  for  defining  actionable  plans, 
sound public policies and development outcomes.
The  extraordinary  post-2015  process  is  not  yet 
over.  Important  work  on  indicators  has  yet  to  be 
accomplished, by March 2016. A key principle in that 
regard  will  be  to  measure  what  we  treasure.  I  urge 
Member States to ensure that the indicators will capture 
citizens’ perceptions and will assess both the qualitative 
and quantitative dimensions of the SDGs. The biggest 
challenge that lies ahead of us is the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda. Citizens need to own sound national 
strategies that take all human rights fully into account. 
For such strategies to be truly people-centred, citizens 
should  be  given  the  opportunity  to  engage  in  their 
definition.  They  should  also  be  allowed  to  provide 
feedback on their implementation.
to  citizens 
On  behalf  of  International  IDEA,  I  particularly 
welcome  the  recognition  of  the  importance  of  all 
responsible  actors’  accountability 
in 
achieving 
the  Goals.  Democratic  accountability 
will  indeed  be  a  critical  factor  for  ensuring  that  the 
translation  of  the  Agenda  into  national  strategies  is 
really responsive to the needs and lives of all people. 
That  was  stressed  today  at  a  high-level  side  event 
organized  by  International  IDEA  with  the  Heads  of 
State of Switzerland, Botswana and Mongolia. Member 
States, it was concluded, should build on the experience 
gained throughout the Millennium Development Goals 
process 
further  strengthening  accountability 
mechanisms at the national and subnational levels.
for 
We  as  International  IDEA  stand  committed  to 
facilitating experience-sharing by Member States from 
all regions of the world on democratic accountability in 
service delivery. We shall also contribute, together with 
the  United  Nations  and  other  partners,  to  supporting 
national  efforts  to  develop  and  utilize  democratic 
accountability mechanisms for monitoring progress on 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
In  conclusion,  let  me  underscore  that  we  owe  it 
to  the  next  generations  to  act  now,  with  democracy’s 
empowering energy, to protect and build a better world 
for us all.
The Acting President: I now call on the President 
of the International Criminal Police Organization.
(INTERPOL), which today brings together 190 States 
in the fight against international organized crime, I am 
particularly honoured to participate in this debate at the 
highest level of the international community.
We  know  today  that  the  relationship  between 
security  and  development  is  close  but  ambiguous.  On 
the one hand, there is no development without security. 
When the roads are not safe, when borders are porous, 
when  there  is  corruption  or  significant  criminal 
trafficking, then we have major obstacles to sustainable 
development. On the other hand, security depends on 
an economic and social environment conducive to the 
financing  of  high-quality  recruitment  and  training 
according  to  the  most  modern  standards  and  salary 
levels that enable people to resist corruption.
How  can  a  global  police  organization  such  as 
INTERPOL, with more than 100 years of experience, 
be  a  bulwark  against  violence,  organized  crime  and 
injustice and work for dignity and equality? According 
to  our  mandate,  we  act  first  of  all  as  a  direct  and 
immediate service with the police forces of our member 
States.  We  provide  them  with  high-level  technical 
assistance to help them reinforce their basic operational 
capacities.  We  help  them  build,  deploy  and  maintain 
modern  criminal  databases,  for  example  WAPIS,  the 
West Africa Police Information System project, which 
aims to provide several countries of West Africa with 
information capacity on criminal activities.
It  will  also  enable  police  forces  to  communicate 
and exchange information. That is the meaning of our 
motto,  “Connecting  police  for  a  safer  world”,  which 
also translates into the distribution of our notices. One 
of those notices was specifically created 10 years ago in 
cooperation with the United Nations in order to support 
the  sanctions  regime  introduced  by  the  Security 
Council. INTERPOL also provides countries with the 
tools  for  integration,  sharing  and  pooling.  If  they  are 
isolated globally, competent police forces can only be 
weak when it comes to fighting cross-border crime and 
global  threats.  Our  regional  conferences,  which  are 
held regularly, are trying to meet the need for dialogue 
and to define the conceptual framework and synergies 
among professionals who work for sovereign States but 
are interlinked by dint of their fight against organized 
crime.
Ms.  Ballestrazzi  (International  Criminal  Police 
Organization)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am  speaking  on 
behalf of the International Criminal Police Organization 
As such, the activity of our seven regional bureaux 
is  vital,  because  it  enables  INTERPOL  to  organize 
regional  anti-criminal  operations  that  bring  together 
15-29241
25/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
several  States  as  we  fight  against  crime.  What  is 
the  challenge  that  we  are  facing  above  and  beyond 
strengthening the existing tools? States members of the 
General Assembly defined it when they were working 
on the post-2015 development goals and mentioned the 
word  “sustainable”.  As  we  fight  organized  crime  and 
terrorism, I think that sustainability will be borne up by 
the creation of norms, concepts and tools that are really 
global, truly shared and developed together on the basis 
of shared universal values. Our organization is proud of 
its activity alongside the United Nations for more than 
20 years. In particular, that collaboration thrives thanks 
to the development of over a dozen sectoral cooperation 
agreements concluded with the United Nations, which 
are now going to be complemented by the new plan of 
action  with  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime.
Criminals are perhaps organized, but they are not 
united. I think that, standing together, we can present 
an organized united front against them.
The Acting President: I now call on the Director 
of  International  Partnership  and  Cooperation  of  the 
International Organization for Migration.
Ms.  Helke 
(International  Organization 
for 
Migration): It is a great honour to speak to the Assembly 
today on behalf of my Director General, Mr. William 
Lacy Swing, on this momentous occasion.
As  we  join  one  another  in  adopting  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
we  are  committing  to  a  highly  ambitious,  universal 
agenda that will guide our efforts to achieve sustainable 
development over the next 15 years. The new Agenda 
includes  many  significant  and  critical  issues  that  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  did  not 
address. For example, the 2030 Agenda highlights the 
positive  contribution  of  migrants  to  inclusive  growth 
and  sustainable  development.  It  recognizes  the  need 
to  enhance  migrants’  development  outcomes  and  to 
ensure  that  they  are  not  left  behind.  That  is  a  great 
achievement,  and  something  that  the  International 
Organization for Migration (IOM) strongly applauds.
First,  as  the  Director  General  has  said  many 
times before, we are in a period of the greatest human 
mobility  in  history.  One  in  every  seven  people  on 
the planet today — roughly one billion people — are 
migrants. Many billions more are directly affected by 
migration —  whether  as  family  members  of  migrants 
or  as  people  who  receive  indispensable  services  and 
other  support  from  migrants.  The  dimensions  of 
today’s  migration  mean  that  it  is  inevitable  and  will 
only  continue  over  the  lifetime  of  the  2030  Agenda. 
For  example,  demographic  shifts  and  labour  market 
transformation  in  both  developing  and  developed 
countries will lead to an increased need to match people 
with jobs at all skill levels. We must therefore manage 
and plan for large-scale migration, recognizing that it 
can be a boon for development, if well managed.
Secondly,  we  are  witnessing  an  unprecedented 
number of humanitarian crises in the world, including 
in  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya,  the  Central  African  Republic 
and  South  Sudan.  Ebola  has  impacted  the  economies 
of  West  Africa;  climate  change  and  extreme  weather 
events  are  all  factors  driving  migration  and  must 
be  addressed.  With  33.3  million  people  internally 
displaced  and  16.7  million  refugees,  the  number  of 
people  displaced  by  violence  and  conflict  today  in 
the  world  is  the  highest  since  the  Second  World  War. 
At the same time, IOM data show that the number of 
migrants  dying  on  dangerous  journeys  in  the  hope  of 
finding  better  lives  for  themselves  and  their  families 
is rising. All States have an international obligation to 
save the lives of those seeking help. We must address 
the  drivers  of  displacement  and  act  in  concerted  and 
coherent partnership in doing so.
the 
Thirdly, 
international  community  must 
work  together  to  change  the  migration  discourse  to 
something more positive. We have watched with dismay 
the  growing  tide  of  anti-migrant  sentiment  in  many 
parts of the world, as hearts harden towards migrants 
and  communities  begin  to  turn  on  each  other.  Rather 
than  succumb  to  those  negative  perceptions,  we  must 
instead focus on what migrants contribute to their host 
countries, as well as their countries of origin.
By  including  migration  in  the  new  Agenda, 
we  challenge  ourselves  to  address  the  causes  and 
consequences  of  migration  in  a  way  that  promotes 
dignified,  orderly  and  safe  migration  for  the  benefit 
of all. I urge all Governments and stakeholders to take 
those commitments seriously, and I offer three points 
showing why it is critical to do so.
For  IOM,  the  commitments  outlined  in  the  2030 
Agenda  represent  critical  means  through  which  to 
address those challenges. Implementing the migration 
aspects  of  the  new  Agenda  will  call  for  the  adoption 
of  a  “high-road”  scenario  on  migration.  That  could 
encompass  many  different  policy  interventions,  but 
should  focus  on  best-practice  measures  to  improve 
26/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
migrant  and  host  population  well-being  through  safe, 
orderly, dignified and humane migration.
IOM stands ready to assist Governments to develop 
and implement such policies in the pursuit of the 2030 
Agenda and a world free of poverty. We are developing 
a  Migration  Governance  Index  to  help  monitor  and 
build  capacity  in  the  planning  and  implementation 
of  Governments’  migration  policies,  and  IOM  has  a 
unique  capacity  to  gather  migration  policy  data  from 
its member States, which could facilitate monitoring of 
the new Agenda.
Together,  we  can  make  a  difference.  We  are  here 
to help.
The Acting President: I now call on the Adviser 
to the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation.
Mr. 
Bokhari 
of 
(Organization 
Islamic 
Cooperation): I bring greetings to the President of the 
General  Assembly  from  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation (OIC) and its Secretary General, Mr. Iyad 
Ameen  Madani.  The  OIC  extends  its  best  wishes  as 
the  United  Nations  embarks  on  the  historic  task  of 
transforming the lives of billions of people by investing 
in sustainable development for the next 15 years.
for  Sustainable  Development 
This is a defining moment for all of us. The 2030 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1)  puts  the  people  and  their  needs  at  the  centre.  It 
has rightly been called the “Agenda of the people, by 
the people and for the people”. The OIC stands ready 
to  work  with  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  our 
journey on the road to 2030 is successful and its gains 
irreversible.
The  goals  and  objectives  of  the  Organization 
of  Islamic  Cooperation  are  not  different  from  those 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  OIC  is  the  second  largest 
intergovernmental  organization  after 
the  United 
Nations,  with  57  member  States  spanning  four 
continents, which means that it has almost one third of 
the United Nations membership. The two organizations 
are devoted to the cause of international peace, security 
and  development  and  share  diverse  challenges  in  all 
domains of human endeavour.
After more than four decades of existence, the role 
and scope of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation 
has  expanded  from  a  predominantly  political  set 
of  issues  to  include  many  areas  relating  to  human 
development, the quality of life and the well-being of 
the  people.  The  OIC  of  today  deals  with  issues  that 
include science, technology and innovation for security, 
disease,  hunger,  human  rights,  good  governance  and 
infrastructure  development,  to  name  but  a  few.  Our 
vision puts the people first and is aimed at developing 
human capital and achieving inclusive growth. The OIC 
therefore fully recognizes the significance of the 2030 
Agenda  and  endorses  the  promise  that  it  holds  for  all 
people.
Conflicts,  instability  and  the  absence  of  peace 
and  security  are  among  the  major  constraints  to 
development. People are always the first victims of each 
security threat and conflict situation. The multiplicity 
of such situations in and around the OIC member States 
necessitates  a  proactive  role  by  the  Organization  of 
1slamic  Cooperation  in  fostering  peace  and  security 
at  all  levels,  collectively  or  even  independently.  The 
OIC  therefore  envisions  its  role  as  an  effective  agent 
for  peace  and  development  in  the  Muslim  world  and 
beyond.
Our Organization is currently engaged in elaborating 
a  successor  programme  to  the  10-year  programme  of 
action that concludes in December 2015. It was the first 
major  attempt  to  pursue  a  multidimensional  agenda 
aimed at addressing the challenges faced by its member 
States in the intellectual, cultural, political, economic 
and development fields. The programme of action for 
the  next  decade  (2016-2025),  entitled  “The  OIC-2025 
Programme  of  Action”,  is  anchored  in  the  provisions 
of  the  OIC  Charter  and  focuses  on  17  priority  areas. 
They include the areas of peace and security, poverty 
alleviation,  employment,  infrastructure  development, 
industrialization, 
sustainability, 
inter-faith  harmony,  the  empowerment  of  women, 
human rights, good governance, accountability and the 
like.
simultaneous 
The  United  Nations  recognizes  the  OIC  as  a 
strategic partner, and an elaborate OIC-United Nations 
cooperation  mechanism  is  in  place  between  the  two 
organizations.  The  OIC  is  in  the  happy  situation 
where it enjoys relationships with major international, 
intergovernmental  and  non-governmental  bodies  all 
over  the  world,  including  important  non-member 
countries  of  the  OIC.  The  OIC-2025  Programme 
and  the  2030  Agenda  reflect  a  great  degree  of 
complementarity in the goals and actions set forth by 
the  two  organizations.  With  an  impressive  record  of 
active partnership between the two organizations, the 
OIC  is  in  a  unique  position  to  play  an  important  role 
15-29241
27/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
in promoting global partnerships and intensive global 
engagement, bringing together all stakeholders for the 
success of our collective journey.
The  OIC-2025  Programme  is  our  agenda  for  the 
next decade. It will chart a course for the work of the 
Organization and can complement global efforts aimed 
at  the  successful  realization  of  the  Goals  and  targets 
of  the  2030  Agenda.  Both  organizations  have  a  lot  to 
offer  to  the  people  —  hope  for  people  under  foreign 
occupation, for people in distress and for people facing 
deprivation, discrimination, injustice, poverty, disease 
and  hunger.  Together  we  shall  work  to  ensure  that 
the goals and actions that we are pursuing succeed in 
bringing about the much needed changes in the lives of 
our  people.  Every  success,  no  matter  how  small,  will 
add to the credibility of our efforts.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Secretary  General  of  the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Mr.  Zannier  (Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe):  There  are  milestones  in 
history  when  universal  values  are  translated  into 
political commitments that change the course of events. 
The  adoption  of  the  visionary  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  70  years  ago  was  one  of  them.  So  was  the 
Helsinki Final Act, ratified 40 years ago, which is the 
foundational document of the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  pioneering  a 
comprehensive  concept  of  security  embracing  human 
rights and democracy, economics and the environment, 
as well as political and military aspects.
Today’s  gathering  of  world  leaders  and  major 
stakeholders  promises  to  be  another  such  historic 
turning point — a turning point that regenerates hope, 
re-energizes  action  and  reinvigorates  partnerships. 
As  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  is  built  around  five  pillars,  peace, 
people,  planet,  prosperity  and  partnerships,  I  will 
structure my brief remarks in the same way, stressing 
the OSCE engagement in addressing each of them.
First, peace — we are convening at a critical time 
for  global  and  regional  security.  Armed  conflict  is 
once  again  a  reality  on  European  soil,  and  divisions 
within the OSCE region are growing, undermining the 
very  foundations  of  both  European  and  international 
security. But we also face a range of new transnational 
threats, which are addressed in the 2030 Agenda.
The  OSCE  is,  first  and  foremost,  a  security 
organization. Its comprehensive security concept offers 
effective tools for promoting sustainable development. 
As  the  2030  Agenda  reinforces  the  close  relationship 
between  peace,  security  and  development,  one  of  the 
major contributions of the OSCE to the implementation 
of  the  Agenda  will  be  its  enduring  engagement  in 
conflict  prevention,  conflict  resolution  and  post-
conflict rehabilitation. The OSCE will continue to serve 
as  a  platform  for  inclusive  dialogue  and  cooperation 
around hard and soft security issues that have a direct 
impact on development.
The  second  shared  priority  is  people.  Ensuring 
lasting  peace,  democracy  and  stability  for  more  than 
a  billion  people  in  our  57  participating  States  is  a 
major OSCE objective. Achieving gender equality and 
empowering women form a cornerstone of our security 
approach,  which  seeks  to  protect  and  promote  the 
human rights and dignity of women and men. The OSCE 
efforts to empower women and girls and to mainstream 
gender into policies and activities at both the State and 
the  organizational  levels  are  fully  compliant  with  the 
new post-2015 development agenda.
The  reality  of  international  migration  as  a  global 
phenomenon  reminds  us  that  we  need  to  develop 
cooperative  rights-based  approaches  so  as  to  ensure 
that migration can continue to act as a powerful catalyst 
for  development.  Our  approach  features  migration 
policy  frameworks,  including  at  the  regional  level, 
which  are  key  ingredients.  The  OSCE  can  offer  a 
platform  for  dialogue  and  provide  expertise,  drawing 
on our comprehensive and cross-dimensional security 
concepts.
The  OSCE  seeks  also  to  foster  peaceful  and 
inclusive  societies.  We  have  developed  specific  tools 
and programmes tailored to help Governments address 
the root causes of intolerance and discrimination. We 
will  continue  to  promote  the  values  of  acceptance, 
integration and tolerance for diversity.
That  brings  me  to  the  third  shared  priority,  our 
planet. The OSCE recognizes the two-way relationship 
between the environment and security, and we bring a 
security perspective to the international environmental 
discourse. The OSCE will support the accomplishments 
of  some  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  its 
region.  The  Goals  on  water  and  climate  change  are 
primary examples. The OSCE will continue to facilitate 
cooperation  among  the  parties  and  States  that  share 
28/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
water  resources.  We  will  make  full  use  of  potential 
sources  of  supply  through  water  diplomacy  aimed 
at  increasing  security  and  stability  in  our  region.  We 
will  strive  to  identify  the  security  impacts  of  climate 
change in the local, national and regional contexts and 
to  develop  transboundary  climate  change  adaptation 
strategies.
In more than nine weeks, the twenty-first Conference 
of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change will convene, and hopes are high for 
a new global agreement. We will support the road to the 
Conference of Parties by organizing an OSCE Security 
Days:  Climate  Change  and  Security  event  devoted  to 
climate change and security on 28 October at the OSCE 
headquarters in Vienna.
The  OSCE  will  also  continue  to  be  a  leader  in 
promoting  environmental  democracy  in  our  region. 
The  OSCE-supported  network  of  Aarhus  Centres  on 
environment  and  security,  which  now  comprises  59 
centres  in  14  countries,  provides  tools  for  increasing 
access to information, public participation and access 
to  justice  in  the  sustainable  development  sphere  and 
for  increasing  transparency  and  accountability  and 
increasing  engagement 
in  promoting  sustainable 
energy,  disaster-risk  reduction  and  the  prevention  of 
trafficking in hazardous waste, chemicals and wildlife, 
and  will  contribute  to  achieving  those  goals.  By 
bringing together major energy-producing, transit and 
consuming  countries,  the  OSCE  will  also  continue  to 
play a significant role in the development of a positive 
approach to energy security.
Our  fourth  shared  priority  is  prosperity.  Good 
economic  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  economic 
development  are  the  prerequisites  for  peaceful  and 
prosperous  communities  and  nations.  The  OSCE’s 
activities  aimed  at  promoting  international  economic 
cooperation,  enhancing  the  climate  for  business  and 
investment,  streamlining  regulatory  frameworks  and 
countering corruption, money laundering and terrorism, 
will continue at an increasing pace as we support the 
implementation of the new Agenda.
Finally,  the  fifth  shared  priority  is  partnerships. 
We are not alone in all our endeavours. United in our 
common goal to ensure peace and security, the OSCE 
is  joining  efforts,  first  and  foremost  with  the  United 
Nations, but also with many other partner organizations, 
to forge effective responses to traditional and emerging 
challenges.  The  Environment  and  Security  Initiative 
is  a  concrete  example  of  that  approach.  Our  lasting 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  other  specialized  United  Nations 
agencies will continue to enable joint and coordinated 
action in support of the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
But  we  also  need  to  move  beyond  that.  We 
need  to  build  strong  partnerships,  including  with 
Governments,  the  private  sector,  the  corporate  world, 
financial  institutions  and  civil  society,  to  forge  the 
strong coalition needed to implement our visionary but 
challenging new Agenda.
Achieving the goals of the new Agenda within the 
next  15  years  will  require  major  efforts  on  the  part 
of  all  stakeholders,  and  those  efforts  will  be  made 
stronger  by  partnerships  and  cooperation.  We  have 
no time to waste. We must seize this opportunity and 
work together to bring peace and prosperity to people 
in every corner of our planet.
The Acting President: I now call on the Secretary 
General  of  the  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  Group 
of States.
Mr. Gomes (African, Caribbean and Pacific Group 
of  States):  It  is  my  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
79  States  members  of  the  African,  Caribbean  and 
Pacific  Group  of  developing  countries  (ACP  Group) 
to  fully  endorse  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
We are a unique group of States in our ecological, 
economic and sociocultural diversity, comprising 40 of 
the United Nations-classified least-developed countries, 
37 of the 39 small island developing States (SIDS) and 
41 middle-income countries. In that geostrategic space, 
the  ACP  Group  encompasses  the  tropical  forests  of 
Central Africa and Amazonia and the oceans, marine 
and mineral resources that enable the globalized world 
of  this  twenty-first  century  to  breathe  clean  air  and 
ensure  ocean  travel  for  people,  goods  and  services  of 
all regions.
The  goals  of  sustainable  development  and  an 
equitable  share  in  the  wealth  of  planet  Earth  cannot 
be  treated  as  mere  documents  and  fine  rhetoric  by 
the  peoples  of  the  ACP  Group.  The  commitment  to 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  poverty 
eradication  and  the  end  of  the  disturbingly  rapid 
increase  of  inequality,  within  and  among  nations,  is 
not an option but an imperative for the ACP Group of 
15-29241
29/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
States, and we align ourselves with those who address 
those issues resolutely and systematically.
The ACP Group has pledged to strengthen the views 
and voices of developing countries in the growing call 
for a new, inclusive and people-centred multilateralism. 
Today, as the ACP Group of States, through the voices 
of  the  many  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  our 
member  States  at  the  Assembly,  we  have  reiterated 
that  the  goals  and  targets  of  sustainable  development 
will be addressed within the strategic policy domains 
of  the  ACP  Group  through  effective  co-management 
with  the  European  Development  Fund  and  intra-ACP 
cooperation  in  the  form  of  a  comprehensive  and 
coherent programme of action.
As stated in the preamble of the outcome document, 
entitled “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development”,  we  are  “resolved  to  free 
the human race from the tyranny of poverty and want 
and  to  heal  and  secure  our  planet.”  The  ACP  Group 
fully endorses that resolve in our programme of action 
and  pledges  to  dedicate  the  comparative  advantage 
and  unique  character  of  its  tricontinental  solidarity 
and  experience,  with  special  attention  on  the  most 
vulnerable  countries,  in  particular  African  countries, 
the  least-developed  countries,  landlocked  developing 
countries and small island developing States.
To that end, a road map for concrete action to realize 
the SDGs will be developed through an ACP forum on 
SIDS  to  assist  in  complementing  the  Samoa  Pathway, 
and  the  coordination  of  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation by the ACP Group as a facilitator and hub, 
and by upscaling the science, technology and innovation 
programmes of intra-ACP development cooperation in 
support of the technology facility mechanism launched 
at  this  Summit  and  by  unreservedly  promoting  good 
governance,  the  rule  of  law,  women’s  empowerment 
and  gender  equality  in  all  our  79  member  States.  In 
pursuit of those noble ideals, the ACP Group joins the 
international community in a plan of action for people, 
planet and prosperity.
The Acting President: I now call on the Director 
General of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community.
Mr.  Tukuitonga  (Pacific  Community):  This  is  a 
momentous occasion for the Pacific Community, as it 
is the first time our organization is present here in its 
own right. As the organization’s Director General, I am 
honoured  to  make  this  inaugural  statement  to  such  a 
distinguished audience.
For  those  who  are  not  familiar  with  the  Pacific 
Community,  we  are  a  science-,  knowledge-  and 
innovation-based  development  organization 
that 
has  been  supporting  sustainable  development  in  22 
Pacific  island  countries  and  territories  since  1947, 
when the organization was known as the South Pacific 
Commission. The Pacific Community recognizes that 
such support must consider the changing development 
landscape at the national, regional and global levels. As 
a key institution in the regional architecture supporting 
Pacific islands and territories, our programmes reflect 
the  strategic  direction  set  out  in  the  Framework  for 
Pacific  Regionalism  led  by  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
and  the  regional  priorities  identified  in  the  Samoa 
Pathway.
to  congratulate 
the  adoption  of 
Please  allow  me 
the  global 
community  on 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  contained  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
It  is  truly  a  historic  achievement  and  a  development 
milestone.
The  year  2015  has  presented  an  unprecedented 
opportunity to bring the countries and citizens of the 
world together to decide and embark on new paths to 
improve the lives of people everywhere. The decisions 
taken  will  determine  the  global  course  of  action  to 
end  poverty,  promote  prosperity,  improve  health  and 
well-being for all, protect the environment and address 
climate  change.  In  2015,  the  global  community  has 
adopted a new sustainable development agenda, and a 
new  global  agreement  on  climate  change  is  expected 
in  Paris  later  this  year.  Let  me  say  at  this  point  that 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  cannot,  from  our 
perspective,  be  realized  without  a  binding  agreement 
in Paris.
Our  region’s  future  prosperity  and  ability  to 
effectively tackle the major challenges, such as climate 
change,  poverty  and  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs), depend on the drive, determination and quality 
of  learning  outcomes  shown  by  decision-makers. 
Eradicating  poverty  requires  a  change  of  practice  to 
refocus  investments  across  sectors,  support  young 
people  and  engage  and  target  vulnerable  youth.  That 
will ensure that we leave no one behind.
It 
is 
acknowledged 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals are interlinked, but please allow me 
to put the challenge we face in our region into context. 
The  starting  point  for  us  is  very  simple.  The  Pacific 
that 
30/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
small island developing States are spread over an area 
of approximately 36 million square kilometres, almost 
four times the size of China and 20 per cent larger than 
the African continent. Our area covers approximately 
11 per cent of the world’s water surface and 7 per cent 
of the total surface area of the Earth. It is the largest 
ecosystem on the planet. But only 1.5 per cent of that 
total area is land, with 98.5 per cent covered by water, 
a fact recognized by our leaders when they adopted the 
designation: large ocean States.
It  is  that  vast  ocean  that  joins  the  Pacific  small 
island developing States together. It is the only resource 
that many of our island nations have access to, and Goal 
14  is,  therefore,  of  critical  importance  to  our  region. 
Healthy  oceans  are  fundamental  to  resilience  and 
sustainable development. That is critical in our region 
if we are to advance on all three pillars of sustainable 
development,  namely,  the  economic,  the  social  and 
the environmental. It is the main source of livelihoods 
for  many  of  our  people.  It  provides  for  food  security, 
health  and  economic  benefits.  Therefore,  the  critical 
importance  of  conserving  and  sustainably  managing 
and  using  the  oceans,  seas  and  marine  resources  is 
paramount. Achieving the targets enshrined in Goal 14 
is fundamental.
Equally important is Goal 13, entitled “Take urgent 
action to combat climate change and its impacts”. Our 
Pacific-island region contributes less than 0.03 per cent 
of the total world greenhouse-gas emissions, yet we are 
already  suffering  from  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change. Failure to reach a legally binding agreement in 
Paris will further compromise the lives and livelihoods 
of our people.
Investing 
firm 
commitment to Goal 4, entitled “Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities  for  all”.  Education  is  a  fundamental 
building block for sustainable development. While we 
have good access to education in the region, only 3 out 
of 10 young persons in school achieve the desirable and 
recommended literacy levels.
in  young  people 
requires  a 
Given my background, it would be remiss of me not 
to  speak  about  Goal  3,  entitled  “Ensure  healthy  lives 
and promote well-being for all at all ages”. While that 
Goal is all encompassing, I would like to make a pitch 
for  specific  attention  to  non-communicable  diseases, 
obesity,  diabetes,  heart  disease  and  so  on.  A  high 
proportion of the deaths caused by those diseases occur 
in low- and middle-income countries and to people well 
below the age of 60 years; those deaths are preventable 
at such an early age.
Around  three  quarters  of  all  of  the  deaths  in  the 
Pacific small island developing States are due to NCDs; 
the majority occur to people in their most economically 
active age bracket, and for many others their capacity 
to  contribute  further  to  economic  development  is 
significantly  reduced.  The  top  10  countries  with  the 
highest  overweight  and  obesity  rates  in  the  world  are 
Pacific small island developing States. Recognizing the 
huge economic costs of NCDs in the Pacific, the rising 
expenditure on NCDs comprises well over half of the 
total health budget of many small island countries.
recall, 
As  members  will 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) had eight Goals, 18 targets 
and 60 indicators. The SDG agenda has more than double 
that — 17 Goals; 169 targets, a nearly ten-fold increase; 
and,  at  present,  some  320-plus  indicators,  which,  I 
note,  are  yet  to  be  finalized.  That  is  a  huge  increase, 
and it is imperative that they should be narrowed down 
to a more manageable set of global headline indicators 
that  all  countries  worldwide  can  commit  to  regularly 
monitoring and reporting on.
all 
relevant 
technical 
In that context, I am proud to say that in our region 
we have made a start, which was recently communicated 
to the United Nations. Our sectoral experts, colleagues 
from 
intergovernmental 
organizations, have come up with a list of 62 regional 
headline  indicators  that  we  believe  would  do  justice 
to an effective monitoring regime of the SDGs in our 
region.  Matching  these  draft  Pacific  SDG  indicators 
against  the  current  draft  list  of  82  tier  1  indicators 
proposed  by  the  United  Nations  for  consideration  by 
the  Inter-Agency  and  Expert  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  Indicators  in  Bangkok  next  month 
shows an overlap of nearly 50 per cent. In other words, 
for  us  to  commit  to  our  own  regional  requirements, 
plus all currently global tier 1 indicators, we would be 
looking  at  a  set  of  116  indicators.  That  is  still  nearly 
double the current MDG total, but only around a third 
of the currently proposed total of 320.
Whatever the final outcome of the SDG Inter-Agency 
and Expert Group deliberations, it goes without saying 
that  the  volume  of  additional  data  collection  will  be 
substantial for small island developing States, in fact for 
most developing nations, and would require a massive 
global  investment  in  that  area,  as  stressed  by  many 
15-29241
31/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
countries  and  organizations  at  the  third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  in  Addis 
Ababa in July. Without due consideration of that reality, 
I  am  afraid  most  of  us  will  be  doomed  to  fail  in  our 
responsibilities  to  monitor  and  report  reliably  on  our 
progress  in  implementing  the  comprehensive  SDG 
agenda.
It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  share  the  Pacific 
Community’s  perspective  with  the  Assembly  at  this 
Summit.  Our  longevity  and  standing,  as  the  Pacific 
region’s principal scientific and technical development 
organization, is only possible through the unity of our 
members; the dedication of our staff; the support of the 
Pacific people and our principal development partners; 
and  the  strength,  commitment  and  warmth  of  truly 
durable and genuine partnerships.
The Acting President: I now call on the Executive 
Director of the International Trade Centre.
Ms.  González  (International  Trade  Centre):  We 
know why we are here. We know what is at stake. The 
new global agenda has the potential to set us on track 
towards a future of equality and opportunities for the 
billions  of  women,  men  and  young  people  who  have 
not shared fully in our rising prosperity. That inclusive 
future  must  be  greener  or  it  will  not  happen,  since 
business as usual on the environmental front will exact 
terrible economic and social costs, especially from the 
poorest.
Adopting 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  was  a  first  step. 
Translating the promise of those marching orders into 
reality will demand determined policies. It will require 
fundamental changes in the way the private sector does 
business. We, as individual consumers, will also have 
to make more responsible decisions. Implementing the 
Agenda  will  ultimately  lead  to  incredible  economic 
and  human  savings,  but  there  will  be  up-front  costs. 
Leveraging every cent of aid, tax revenue and private 
investment for maximal development impact will take 
a  strong  partnership  between  Governments,  business 
and  civil  society,  working  together  with  the  United 
Nations. And we will need innovation. The low-carbon 
transition will be incomplete, unless it extends access 
to  energy  to  the  more  than  1  billion  people  who  still 
rely on wood for heat and light.
But  delivering  on  the  2030  Agenda  is  not  just 
about  finding  new  ways  to  do  things.  It  is  also  about 
capitalizing on what we already know to be effective. 
That  is  why  it  is  so  heartening  to  see  that  the  new 
Agenda recognizes trade as an engine for development. 
As we work to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030, we 
will  be  building  on  three  decades  that  have  seen  the 
fastest  poverty  reduction  in  history.  The  growth  that 
lifted  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  out  of  poverty 
across large sections of the developing world had much 
to do with trade. It also had much to do with engagement 
in a more open global economy.
The  countries  that  have  shared  the  least  in  the 
recent  human  development  gains  —  the  countries 
that  have  fallen  short  on  poverty  reduction  —  are 
precisely  those  that  have  remained  on  the  margins  of 
international  production  networks.  To  put  it  simply, 
trading in value-added goods and services matters for 
development.  A  global  economy  in  which  no  country 
languishes  on  the  sidelines  or  remains  locked  into 
exporting  unprocessed  raw  materials  will  be  better 
placed  to  offer  productive  employment  opportunities 
for all.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
will catalyse new thinking and funds aimed at meeting 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  I  am  delighted 
that  some  of  that  ingenuity  will  now  be  directed 
towards  inclusiveness  in  trade,  towards  objectives 
such  as  doubling  the  share  of  the  least  developed 
countries in world trade, towards promoting economic 
diversification, 
the  economic 
empowerment  of  women,  who  still  represent  half  of 
the  population  of  this  planet,  and,  critically,  towards 
accurately  measuring 
the  effectiveness  of  our 
interventions.
towards  promoting 
The  Agenda  calls  for  opening  trade,  for  farm 
and  fishery  subsidy  reforms  and  for  a  strengthened 
multilateral  trading  system  anchored  firmly  in  the 
World  Trade  Organization.  It  directly  links  Aid  for 
Trade to the goal of full and productive employment for 
all. Trade is not an end in itself — it is a road towards 
growth  and  development.  It  is  an  enabler  of  progress 
across the entire Agenda and, in particular, an approach 
to the goals of creating jobs and reducing inequalities.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are a vital link 
to making growth inclusive. Small and medium-sized 
enterprises account for the majority of jobs in virtually 
all countries. Keeping up with population growth will 
require the world to generate an additional 500 million 
jobs  by  2030.  In  many  places,  those  jobs  will  mean 
the difference between a demographic dividend and a 
32/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
social time bomb. And the lion’s share of those jobs will 
be generated by small and medium-sized enterprises.
economic growth. Indeed, no country has ever reached 
middle-income status without proper urbanization.
When  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  are 
able  to  access  finance,  when  they  are  able  to  build 
trade capacity and skills, when they are empowered to 
become more competitive and connect to international 
markets — in a nutshell, when small and medium-sized 
enterprises trade — they generate more and better jobs 
across a broad cross-section of countries’ work forces. 
When they are run by women, the dividends are even 
richer.
As  we  turn  our  minds  to  making  this  ambitious 
Agenda a reality, let us think about how to integrate small 
and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries 
more  fully  into  the  global  division  of  labour.  Let  us 
empower them and transform them into the engines of 
growth that they can be. The International Trade Centre 
is  the  Assembly’s  partner  in  that  endeavour.  We  are 
honoured to be part of this new chapter in our collective 
history.
It  is  critical  to  understand  that  good  urbanization 
is  not  a  passive  outcome  of  growth.  It  is  a  driver  of 
growth.  When  endogenous  resources  are  unlocked, 
a  positive  cycle  of  investment  in  infrastructure  and 
services  is  unleashed.  Urbanization  always  generates 
economic  value,  although  its  value  and  costs  are  not 
always  equally  shared.  However,  the  advantages  of 
urbanization  are  not  guaranteed.  Without  appropriate 
legislation,  good  urban  planning  and  adequate 
financial design, cities can fail their populations. The 
problem that we face nowadays is that most of the new 
urbanization is spontaneous and unplanned. Therefore, 
instead  of  positive  outcomes,  new  urbanization  often 
yields negative externalities, such as congestion, sprawl 
and segregation.
Good  urbanization  does  not  come  by  chance.  It 
comes by design. Three common measures underlie the 
wide diversity of human settlements.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  the  Under-
Secretary-General and Executive Director of the United 
Nations Human Settlements Programme.
First, adequate rules and regulations, which govern 
people  living  close  together  and  sharing  common 
services.
am  honoured 
Mr.  Clos  (United  Nations  Human  Settlements 
Programme): 
congratulate 
representatives  for  their  diligence  in  formulating  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), 
inspirational  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) contained therein.
to 
I 
including 
the 
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme 
(UN-Habitat) welcomes the progress that has been made 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and the increasing recognition of the vital role of 
urbanization in achieving sustainable development. That 
role  is  reflected  strongly  in  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 11 to make cities and human settlements inclusive, 
safe, resilient and sustainable.
The  world  is  rapidly  urbanizing.  Today,  over  half 
the  global  population  lives  in  urban  areas,  which 
will  accommodate  an  additional  3  billion  people  by 
2050  —  70  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population.  Most 
of that growth will take place in developing countries. 
Cities are engines of growth and job creation. They are 
responsible for 70 per cent of the global gross domestic 
product  today.  When  they  are  well  planned,  well 
governed  and  well  financed,  cities  can  drive  national 
Secondly,  better  spatial  planning  and  design  in 
urban  planning,  which  optimize  density,  connectivity 
and diversity.
Thirdly,  a  financial  plan,  which  sustains  the 
functioning of the city and ensures economic prosperity.
Those three measures cannot be achieved through 
sectoral policies alone. Only the collective government 
of a city can effectively oversee its common elements, 
including  public  space.  Local  governments  therefore 
have a pre-eminent role to play. They are at the level 
closest  to  the  people,  to  whom  they  also  have  the 
greatest  accountability.  Local  government  also  needs 
support  from  higher  levels  of  Government,  through 
frameworks  such  as  national  urban  policies  and  the 
adequate empowerment of local authorities.
No  sustainable  development  can  occur  without 
sustainable  urban  development.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  recognizes 
the  power  of  urbanization  to  transform  the  current 
paradigm.  And  it  gives  cities  a  clear  role  to  play  in 
that  transformation.  In  Paris  this  December,  at  the 
2015  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  (COP21), 
an  agreement  on  climate  change  is  expected  to  point 
15-29241
33/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
the way toward implementing one part of the Agenda, 
including  the  requisite  commitments  and  resources. 
Here  too,  cities  have  a  role  to  play,  not  only  as 
contributors to, and victims of, climate change, but in 
providing potential solutions.
Next  year,  in  October  2016,  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Housing  and  Sustainable  Urban 
Development  (Habitat  III)  will  be  held  in  Quito, 
Ecuador.  It  will  be  the  first  global  summit  following 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  and,  hopefully,  a 
new  climate  agreement  at  COP21.  Its  preparatory 
process  has  already  opened  a  debate  and  engagement 
around the world about how we should build, plan and 
manage  cities  and  achieve  sustainable  urbanization. 
Another important debate is taking place on how local, 
regional and national Governments should be involved 
in an action-oriented implementation. A broad base is 
forming to bring about a successful outcome in 2016: 
a  new  urban  agenda  that  will  guide  us  in  the  coming 
decades.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the 
the  International  Forum  of 
in 
Platforms 
Council  Member  of 
Non-Governmental  Organizations 
Seychelles.
Mr. 
Lalande 
(International 
Forum 
Platforms 
of 
Non-Governmental  Organizations 
in 
Seychelles):  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs), contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  are  ambitious  goals 
meant to address global challenges in an era when we 
are  confronted  with  unprecedented  difficulties  and 
challenges.  Many  people  are  relying  on  us  to  make 
decisions that will make a significant difference to their 
lives.
The  International  Forum  of  Non-Governmental 
Organizations  Platforms  reaffirms  its  hope  for  the 
successful  implementation  of  the  SDGs.  Now  is  the 
time to move from policy to action. The ongoing battle 
to eradicate poverty and injustice across the globe must 
be intensified in the implementation phase of the SDGs. 
We all need to focus on engaging in consistent and long-
term  collaborative  approaches  and  complementary 
stakeholder  partnerships  mobilizing  local  authorities, 
civil-society  organizations,  academia,  media  and  the 
private sector. We must demonstrate to our people that 
the SDGs are not only fancy goals on paper, but are a 
clear road map which can be successfully achieved.
standards  and 
Accountability  mechanisms  must  be  built  on 
democratic 
include  citizen-based 
initiatives.  Substantial  financial  resources  need  to 
be  committed  and  the  monitoring  and  accountability 
frameworks  strengthened,  so  that  the  promises  we 
make  to  our  people  today  can  be  realized  tomorrow. 
The Seychelles, for example, is one of the developing 
countries that has been identified as having met most 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and I 
have  the  honour  to  sit  on  its  national  MDG  Steering 
Committee,  which  has  brought 
together  various 
sectors.  The  Seychelles  MDG  Steering  Committee 
proved useful in synergizing the efforts of the country’s 
development  actors  from  the  local  to  the  national 
levels.  We  recommend  that  such  an  inclusive  and 
democratic  mechanism,  which  includes  Government, 
the private sector, civil society and other stakeholders’ 
representatives,  be  established  in  all  countries  and 
adequately steered and resourced. We strongly believe 
that  sustainable  development,  inclusion,  peace  and 
human rights can be achieved only if actors and strong 
and  inclusive  institutions  at  the  local  level  are  the 
backbone of the implementation of the SDGs.
The day will come when we shall review the success 
of the SDGs. In support of making the implementation 
of the SDGs a success, we reaffirm the following points. 
They are: the centrality of peoples’ active engagement, 
the  need  for  a  renewed  mandate  for  institutions  and 
experts to serve local populations, the need to support 
the  democratization  of  societies  and  realize  human 
rights at all levels, the importance of building peace and 
preventing  conflicts  as  a  precondition  to  sustainable 
development, and the imperative to mobilize predictable 
and substantial resources.
Ownership  by  the  people  and  people’s  active 
engagement must be at the core of the shift from policy 
to  action.  This  new  way  of  implementing  the  SDGs 
will  require  a  deep  and  radical  paradigm  shift  on  the 
part of most of our organizations and institutions. The 
saying in Créole, “L’unité fait la force” — which means 
“strength in unity” — should be the driving force when 
implementing the SDGs. Future generations will judge 
our  SDG  implementation  efforts  against  the  criteria 
of  inclusivity,  engagement  and  participation.  Let  us 
therefore rise to the level of people’s aspirations.
The Acting President: I now call on the President 
of the World Farmers’ Organization.
34/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
Ms. Nguleka (World Farmers’ Organization): I am 
greatly honoured to have the privilege of standing before 
this  gathering  today  and  of  addressing  this  important 
Assembly on behalf of the farmers of the world. More 
than 1.5 billion farmers all over the world are part of 
the  3.2  billion  people  living  in  rural  communities. 
Those groups of farmers wake up every morning, every 
day, making sure that we have not only food, but also 
nutrition. By doing so, the farmers of this world make 
sure that the planet is safe.
I  would  also  like  to  state  that  the  community 
of  farmers  welcomes  the  process  leading  up  to  the 
adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We 
would like the United Nations to know that, as farmers 
and members of the major groups, we are delighted that 
we  participated  in  the  preparation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  The  streamlining  of 
all  sectors  and  major  groups  helped  us  not  only  to 
participate, but also to be heard. It has given the world 
community of farmers to be heard and represented at 
the international level.
Farmers  all  over  the  world  —  and  that  includes 
fishermen and cattle-breeders — represent one of the 
main  stakeholders  of  society.  We  have  a  social  and 
economic responsibility. The farmers of this world take 
care not only of the food that we eat, but also of the lands, 
rivers and oceans; they take care of the environment. In 
the  process,  farmers  always  adapt  to  the  evolution  of 
the  climate.  Farmers  provide  food  and  nutrition.  And 
one thing that is mostly overlooked is that farmers also 
create local jobs for their communities. Simply stated, 
farmers  work  every  day  in  making  the  planet  more 
sustainable.
That  is  the  reason  why  the  farmers  of  this  world 
are  committed  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). Although only one Goal 
is directly related to agriculture, as farmers we believe 
and know that, with a lot of help, we can facilitate the 
accomplishment  of  all  17  Goals.  Therefore,  we  see 
ourselves as major stakeholders in the accomplishment 
of those strategic Goals.
Farmers  are  economic  stakeholders,  farmers  are 
economic actors. We are not hobbyists, and farming is 
not a lifestyle. I know that this might come as a surprise 
to some, but farmers are also people who want to make 
a  profit  in  what  they  do.  Farmers  all  over  the  world 
contribute  to  economic  development  and  the  gross 
domestic product of their countries.
Since  yesterday,  we  have  all  heard  the  slogans 
“Moving together as one” and “Leaving no one behind”. 
I believe that if farmers are unable to make any profits 
and their ventures continue to be unprofitable, they will 
be left behind. It is therefore very important for us to 
have very inclusive and strong partnerships between the 
Governments and the private sector so that we can run 
together  to  ensure  that  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  are  implemented  and  that  the  planet  is  more 
sustainable.
The 2030 Agenda will not be effective unless those 
targets are carefully monitored. Farmers’ organizations 
from  all  over  the  world  will  make  their  fundamental 
contributions  to  the  realization  of  the  so-called  data 
revolution — the gathering of more and more precise 
statistical  information  on  agriculture  that  is  normally 
based  on  ethnicity,  gender  and  legal  statistics  from 
the  different  countries  where  we  are  based.  That  is 
what  is  going  to  help  us  measure  the  progress  in  the 
implementation of the SDGs.
Farmers have some demands to make if we are to 
be able to support the implementation of the SDGs. The 
first is access to knowledge and skills. If we are to be able 
to continuously improve agricultural sustainability, we 
also need investment in education and capacity-building 
because that will yield a lasting return. Farmers need 
the  opportunity  to  acquire  the  appropriate  knowledge 
to become entrepreneurs. That is because the economic 
dimension of sustainable development is as important 
as the social and environmental ones.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  farmers  of  the 
world, I would like to pledge that farmers stand ready 
to  contribute  their  expertise  and  are  committed  to 
ensuring that the SDGs are fulfilled. We look forward 
to the opportunity to participate in the implementation, 
the monitoring process and the evaluation of the 2030 
Agenda.
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  call  on  those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply. May I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  I  apologize  for  asking 
for the floor at this late hour, but unfortunately I have to 
address some of the remarks made by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan.
15-29241
35/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
Yesterday and today, we witnessed two magnificent 
days  in  this  Hall,  and  we  are  looking  forward  to 
tomorrow, when the 193 States Members of the United 
Nations will come together for a historic cause to take 
one  more  step  towards  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  and  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  These 
are historic days and this is a historic move, and I am 
surprised  that  a  delegation  should  be  willing  to  spoil 
the fun and glory of these days.
Goal 16 of the SDGs is dedicated to the promotion 
of peaceful societies for sustainable development. Truly, 
Azerbaijan has experienced economic growth, but the 
income  from  that  economic  growth,  unfortunately, 
has not gone entirely to sustain development for peace 
and prosperity in the region, but has been invested in 
arms  deals.  It  is  most  surprising  that  the  country  has 
boosted its military expenditures twentyfold. Instead of 
investing to fulfil the development goals — the SDGs 
or the Millennium Development Goals — the country is 
militarizing beyond any possible reason or logic.
The data that was presented in the statement of the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan cites a figure 
of around 1 million refugees in the country. I am really 
surprised  and  would  suggest  that  the  Minister  check 
some of his data in the official database. The Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR) states on its official website that the number 
of refugees residing in Azerbaijan is 1,299. The number 
of refugees originating from Azerbaijan is 10,521. Most 
have come to Armenia from Azerbaijan. There are 394 
people seeking asylum in Azerbaijan and 4,402 seeking 
asylum in countries other than Azerbaijan. That is the 
only  official  data  contained  in  the  UNHCR  database. 
The database makes no mention of 1 million.
It  is  not  surprising  to  hear  more  and  more  lies 
from  this  delegation,  which  is  accusatory,  abusing 
its  position  at  the  rostrum  and  trying  to  provoke  and 
instigate, while it says nothing about Azerbaijan’s own 
problems  or  responsibilities.  Yes,  refugees  have  the 
right to return to their homes, but who said that only 
Azerbaijani  refugees  have  the  right  to  do  so?  What 
about  the  Armenian  refugees  who  had  to  flee  their 
homes,  their  villages  and  their  towns  as  a  result  of 
massacres, pogroms and persecution by the Azerbaijani 
Government?  Do  they  not  have  the  same  right?  I  do 
believe  that  no  differentiation  can  be  made  based  on 
race  or  ethnicity;  refugees  have  the  right  to  return  to 
their homes, their place of residence.
If  the  Azerbaijani  Minister  is  sincere  in  his 
willingness  for  refugees  to  return  to  their  homes, 
he  should  negotiate  sincerely  with  the  Armenian 
delegation  and  his  Armenian  counterpart  in  order 
to  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
conflict,  which  would  also  enable  the  return  of  each 
and every refugee to their homes. If only that were his 
sincere wish.
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  It  is  unfortunate  that 
the representative of Armenia has once again used our 
debate to make groundless propagandistic statements. 
In reality, we have witnessed yet another unsuccessful 
attempt by that Member State to mislead the international 
community  by  means  of  falsification.  I  would  like  to 
briefly comment on what the representative of Armenia 
preferred to pass over in silence and what he deliberately 
distorted.
First, the fact that military force was used against 
Azerbaijan, and that the armed forces of Armenia seized 
and  continue  to  occupy  the  territories  of  Azerbaijan, 
including the Nagorno Karabakh region and the seven 
surrounding districts, has been well demonstrated and 
requires no additional comments.
Secondly,  through  the  relevant  Security  Council 
and  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  documents 
adopted  by  other  international  organizations,  the 
international community has consistently deplored and 
condemned  in  the  strongest  terms  the  use  of  military 
force against Azerbaijan and the resulting occupation of 
its territories, thereby reaffirming the sovereignty and 
territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and the inviolability of 
its internationally recognized borders, and demanding 
the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal 
of the Armenian forces from all the occupied territories 
of  Azerbaijan.  It  would  be  useful  if  the  delegation  of 
Armenia could read those documents carefully.
Thirdly,  in  the  course  of  its  aggression  Armenia 
has carried out ethnic cleansing of the areas it seized by 
expelling about 1 million Azerbaijanis from their homes 
and  has  committed  other  serious  crimes  during  the 
conflict. Thus, in its relevant resolutions the Security 
Council  has  specifically  condemned  the  attacks  on 
civilians and bombardments of inhabited areas within 
Azerbaijan. In its 2010 judgement, the European Court 
of  Human  Rights  arrived  at  an  important  conclusion 
qualifying  the  offences  of  the  invading  Armenian 
troops against Azerbaijani civilians as acts of particular 
36/38 
15-29241
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.9
gravity that amount to war crimes and crimes against 
humanity.
Fourthly,  Armenia  has  established  an  ethnically 
constructed,  subordinate,  separatist  entity  on  the 
occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan  that  are  under  its 
total  political,  military  and  financial  dependence  and 
control. The European Court of Human Rights clearly 
confirmed  this  in  its  judgement  of  16  June  2015.  The 
Government  of  Armenia,  which  has  purged  both  the 
territory of its own country and the occupied territories 
of  Azerbaijan  of  all  non-Armenians,  and  thereby 
succeeded in creating monoethnic cultures there, should 
be the last to speak about such notions as peace, human 
rights  and  self-determination.  Armenia  continues  to 
pursue an unconstructive position on the negotiations, 
and takes actions aimed at destabilizing the situation on 
the ground, derailing the peace process and ultimately 
consolidating the status quo of occupation.
The  Armenian  side  regularly  and  deliberately 
violates 
the  ceasefire  by  attacking  and  killing 
Azerbaijani  military  personnel  and  civilians  residing 
in  the  territories  adjacent  to  the  front  lines.  In  recent 
times,  such  violations  and  armed  provocations  have 
become increasingly frequent and violent.
Finally, in reality, by disregarding the demands of 
the international community, by continuing to occupy 
the  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  by  deliberately  denying 
the right of around a million Azerbaijani refugees and 
internally  displaced  persons  to  return  to  their  homes, 
by  pursuing  racist  ideology  and  by  misinterpreting 
the fundamental norms and principles of international 
law,  Armenia  clearly  demonstrates  who  is  actually 
responsible  for  undermining  regional  peace,  security 
and stability.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I have always admired 
the  enormous  possibilities  that  language  offers  to 
humankind.  Language  has  enabled  human  beings  to 
express  thoughts,  expressions  and  ideas.  It  has  also 
been used in fairy tales and legends. One does not need 
to  listen  to  the  accusations  and  allegations  that  were 
just  made;  one  simply  needs  to  read  the  newspapers 
going back 20 years. Who, what, when and how did the 
whole  thing  start?  Who  was  the  first  to  attack?  Who 
was the invader?
I  do  believe  it  was  Azerbaijan  that  attacked  the 
peaceful  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh,  who  simply 
wanted  to  be  independent  from  Azerbaijan  —  from 
the  Soviet  Azerbaijan.  In  fact,  throughout  its  history, 
Nagorno Karabakh has never been part of Azerbaijan 
since  the  history  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  is  clearly 
thousands of years longer than that of Azerbaijan. There 
is no way that Azerbaijan has any right whatsoever to 
Nagorno Karabakh. The people of Nagorno Karabakh 
expressed  their  right  to  be  independent  and,  because 
of  their  willingness  to  be  independent,  they  were 
attacked, slaughtered and massacred. So they decided 
to be separate from a country that was willing to kill 
them.
There  is  definitely  no  need  to  cite  a  Security 
Council  resolution  because  such  resolutions  call 
upon  Azerbaijan  as  well  to  stop  the  fighting  and  to 
stop  killing  people,  which  continues  to  this  day.  Just 
yesterday the Azerbaijan military shelled the Armenian 
border  and  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  border.  Is  this  not 
being perpetrated by a country that is speaking about 
some sort of justice?
I  believe  that  the  Azerbaijan  delegation,  before 
speaking  out  and  mixing  fantasy  with  reality,  before 
bringing  up  legend  instead  of  history,  should  take  a 
look  at  its  own  history,  especially  its  recent  history, 
and remember who started the whole mess. If peace is 
what is desired, then one has to live peacefully. If war 
is brought to one’s neighbour, war will be the result and 
more regions will be lost.
That was how the whole thing happened. Nagorno 
Karabakh wanted to be independent. In order to secure 
its borders and its peaceful population from the shelling 
of the Azerbaijani army, they needed to seal a security 
perimeter  around  Nagorno  Karabakh  proper.  That  is 
how the whole thing happened. It will continue like that 
unless  Azerbaijan  comes  to  the  negotiating  table  and 
is truly and strongly committed to finding a solution. 
Otherwise, these rights of reply will continue endlessly. 
I  do  not  think  that  this  is  the  proper  place,  time  or 
occasion for exchanges such as this.
Mr. Musayev (Azerbaijan): The remarks just made 
by  the  representative  of  Armenia,  full  of  the  usual 
distortions  and  misinterpretations,  demonstrate  how 
that  Member  State  is  far  from  even  thinking  about 
engaging  in  a  constructive  search  for  peace.  In  fact, 
the delegation of Armenia has not introduced anything 
new, and has once again abused its right to speak from 
the high rostrum of the United Nations. As a result, we 
have heard irrelevant and out-of-context comments that 
obviously fail to respond to our arguments.
15-29241
37/38
A/70/PV.9 
26/09/2015
We  regret  that  Armenia,  instead  of  contributing 
the  ongoing  conflict-settlement  process,  gives 
to 
preference 
to  provocations  and  escalation  with 
unpredictable  consequences.  Such  a  stance  on  the 
part  of  Armenia  represents  an  open  challenge  to  the 
conflict-settlement  process  and  a  serious  threat  to 
international  and  regional  peace  and  security.  The 
earlier  the  leadership  of  Armenia  realizes  the  lack  of 
any  prospects  for  success  of  its  destructive  political 
agenda, the sooner our peoples will be able to enjoy the 
benefits of peace, stability and cooperation.
The meeting rose at 10.25 p.m.
38/38 
15-29241
