United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
6th plenary meeting
Friday, 25 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.6
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  co-Chair,  Mr.  Al-Khalifa 
(Bahrain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 5.45 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Botswana.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Masisi (Botswana): It is a distinct honour and 
privilege  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
behalf  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana, 
His Excellency Lieutenant General Seretse Khama Ian 
Khama. At the outset, allow me to extend Botswana’s 
warmest  felicitations  to  the  co-Chairs  on  their  well-
deserved  appointment  and  for  the  very  able  manner 
in  which  they  continue  to  guide  our  deliberations.  In 
the same breath, allow me, on behalf of my delegation, 
to  join  in  expressing  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  the  Republic  of  Kenya 
and Ireland for the diplomatic dexterity with which they 
skilfully  navigated  the  intergovernmental  negotiation 
process of the post-2015 development agenda.
Today  we  are  witnessing  history  repeating  itself. 
We have come full circle. In the year 2000, we gathered 
here  for  the  Millennium  Summit,  which  culminated 
in the adoption of the eight Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  whose  implementation  deadline  is 
this  year.  Fifteen  years  later,  we  have  once  again 
converged  in  New  York  to  adopt  a  new  pro-poor, 
gender-sensitive,  transformative  and  inclusive  global 
post-2015 development agenda (resolution 70/1), which 
is  to  guide  sustainable  development  efforts  over  the 
next  15  years,  under  the  theme  “Transforming  our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. 
This is yet another significant milestone in our pursuit 
of  sustainable  development  and  a  just,  equitable, 
prosperous and peaceful global order.
We note with profound appreciation and satisfaction 
that  the  post-2015  development  agenda  is  to  be 
underpinned by a set of 17 comprehensive, time-bound 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  which  seek 
to  promote  sustained  and  inclusive  economic  growth 
and  job  creation,  eradicate  poverty,  empower  people, 
promote  shared  prosperity  and  protect  human  dignity 
and planet Earth.
We  furthermore  note  that  the  17  Sustainable 
Development Goals and the 169 targets of the post-2015 
sustainable development agenda are inherently imbued 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29223 (E)
*1529223*
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
with the potential to significantly and irrevocably alter 
the course of human development, charting a new era 
of  sustained  prosperity  for  all.  Botswana  is  therefore 
proud to be part of this epoch-making event.
The  significance  of 
this  historic  moment 
is 
unparalleled  in  its  aspirations  for  a  better  world,  but 
will remain a meaningless enterprise without the very 
vital  political  will  at  both  national  and  international 
levels. It is therefore imperative that the international 
community make every effort to garner the necessary 
political  will  and  resources  to  ensure  the  successful 
implementation  of  this  new  universal  sustainable 
development  framework,  which  promises  a  life  of 
dignity for all.
Rightfully so, the aspirations and expectations of the 
people we represent for a better quality of life are very 
high. It is therefore our moral duty and responsibility to 
leave no stone unturned in our endeavours to live up to 
their legitimate expectations.
At this juncture, permit me to seize the opportunity 
to  reaffirm  Botswana’s  commitment  to  the  post-2015 
development agenda and to its effective implementation. 
In broad terms, the agenda resonates with Botswana’s 
national  development  agenda  as  enshrined  in  the 
National Development Plan 11, National Vision 2030 and 
the Excellence Strategy for Economic Diversification, 
as well as with many values that my country espouses. 
We  believe  that  inclusive  governance,  democracy  and 
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  should 
form  the  fundament  and  bedrock  of  our  sustainable 
development efforts.
We  continue  to  be  inspired  by  our  steadfast 
commitment  to  the  1948  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights and the inherent dignity and the equal and 
inalienable rights of all members of the human family 
it proclaims. We are therefore firm in our conviction of 
the need to end abject poverty and hunger, to remove 
systemic barriers to development, including inequalities 
and discrimination, the lack of decent jobs, inadequate 
access  to  social  services  and  economic  opportunities. 
We fully recognize the need to ensure the sustainability 
of consumption and production patterns as part of the 
broader  strategies  for  climate  change  mitigation  in 
order to heal our planet and secure the home for both 
present and future generations. This, we believe, is not 
an option, but a compelling moral obligation that every 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community 
must uphold.
We need to constantly remind ourselves that we are 
not here to bury the MDGs, but instead to effectively 
leverage  the  springboard  they  provide.  While  the 
MDGs  have  not  been  fully  realized  and  the  progress 
achieved  has  been  largely  uneven  within  and  across 
nations, they have succeeded in significantly reducing 
extreme poverty worldwide, closing inequality gaps and 
increasing access to economic opportunities and social 
services. They have truly made a profound difference 
in people’s lives.
In  my  own  country,  the  progress  has  been  very 
encouraging.  We  have  reached  universal  access  to 
education and almost closed the disparity between girls 
and boys in schools. Health services are practically free 
and have been brought within an 8-kilometre radius of 
each community across the country. HIV antiretroviral 
drugs are provided at no cost for all in Botswana who 
need them, and transmission of the virus from mother to 
child is almost at zero. Focused interventions for youth 
employment and income-generating opportunities have 
resulted in the improved quality of life of our citizens.
One  notable  area  of  success  worthy  of  special 
mention  has  been  the  national  flagship  programme 
aimed  at  the  eradication  of  abject  poverty.  Through 
the  deliberate  actions  of  that  strategy,  evidence  is 
beginning to show that steady progress is being made. 
Interestingly, evidence also shows that women are the 
greater  beneficiaries  of  the  programme  and  achieve 
significantly  higher  and  better  results  that  actually 
transform  their  livelihoods  and  that  of  their  families. 
That  has  been  a  patent  reminder  of  the  role  that 
women  can  play  in  national  development  when  given 
the  opportunity.  In  that  connection,  the  Botswana 
Government continues to be firmly committed to gender 
equality and the empowerment of women and girls, as 
well as to the elimination of all forms of discrimination 
against them.
Despite  the  notable  achievements  of  the  MDGs, 
serious  challenges  exist  impeding  efforts  to  close 
the  gaps  and  disparities  that  still  remain.  It  will  take 
the  concerted  efforts  of  national  Governments  and 
close cooperation and collaboration on the part of the 
international  community,  civil  society,  the  private 
sector and all the relevant stakeholders to complete the 
job left undone during the lifespan of the MDGs and to 
realize the targets of the SDGs by 2030.
The means for implementing the SDGs are a crucial 
element for success. In that regard, Botswana heartily 
2/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
welcomes  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  adopted 
in  July  of  this  year  during  the  third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development. The robust 
financing  mechanisms  for  the  SDGs  must  mobilize 
international  action  around  very  specific  initiatives 
that have the potential to generate positive results.
Beyond 
support, 
financial 
technological 
cooperation  that  promotes  the  development,  transfer 
and dissemination of clean and environmentally sound 
technologies will also be critical. Follow-up and review 
will  be  necessary  and  should  be  universal  in  scope, 
while  taking  into  account  national  circumstances,  as 
well as the needs and priorities of individual countries. 
Botswana  therefore  calls  on  development  partners  to 
assume  their  role  in  supporting  efforts  by  developing 
countries to implement the SDGs.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  only  to 
reiterate its absolute commitment to “Transforming our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. 
We  further  pledge  to  remain  actively  engaged  in 
galvanizing  international  efforts  towards  the  future 
we want, as envisaged in the outcome document of the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
of 2012. It is our belief that such efforts can and should 
deliver a future that leaves no one behind.
We look forward to a day when every member of 
the human race, in every part of the world, will be able 
to realize his or her fullest potential and prosper on a 
planet that is peaceful, safe and secure.
The Acting President: I thank the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Botswana for his statement.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Guatemala.
Mr.  Juan  Alfonso  Fuentes  Soria,  Vice-President 
of the Republic of Guatemala, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
Mr. Fuentes Soria (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  come  from  a  latitude  with  sun  and  mountains. 
Guatemala is our home. It is a shimmering mosaic of 
24 languages. I am the spokesperson for the President of 
the Republic, who represents the unity of the nation of 
nations, which, since mid-April and over the course of 
20 consecutive weeks, has served as an example for the 
world. In a massive and peaceful manner the people of 
Guatemala took to the streets to express their outrage at 
the inability of an economic, social and political system 
that has not made it possible to overcome poverty and 
segregation of all kinds.
The discovery of networks of corruption that went 
beyond  the  limits  of  the  public  administration  and 
caused unease in the political culture did not result in 
acts of violence. On the contrary, it was transformed into 
a profound feeling of solidarity and unity that forced the 
resignation  and  prosecution  of  the  leading  authorities 
of our country. Citizen discontent has not gone away, 
but it has also not degenerated into scepticism. Citizen 
participation in the elections of 6 September surpassed 
historical  records  and  marked  the  highest  turnout  in 
a  general  election  since  the  return  to  democracy  30 
years  ago.  In  our  new  democratic  spring,  not  only 
did  abstentionism  decline,  but  corruption  declined  as 
well. The citizens turned a deaf ear to the siren songs 
that  called  for  an  interruption  in  the  elections,  which 
will culminate in a vote on 25 October when the new 
President  and  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  will  be 
elected.
In  Guatemala,  we  took  a  first  step  towards  the 
eradication  of  poverty  with  a  change  of  focus.  To 
this  Summit,  convened  to  adopt  a  new  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  we  bring 
the experience of the awakening of our citizenry, which 
clamours for change, beginning with that of overcoming 
the  poverty  of  our  citizens.  To  eradicate  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger,  we  must  begin  by  recognizing 
that  the  poor  are  not  the  only  ones  who  suffer  from 
the  inadequate  distribution  of  income  and  wealth,  as 
His Holiness Pope Francis so poignantly recalled this 
morning  (see  A/70/PV.3).  First,  conditions  preventing 
people’s  full  participation  in  economic,  political  and 
social life must be overcome. The poor are those who 
do  not  have  the  material  or  non-material  resources  to 
meet  the  demands  and  social  mores  that  characterize 
all  citizens.  The  poor  are  the  object  of  statements, 
analysis  and  compassion,  but  they  are  not  able  to  be 
the  subjects  of  their  own  lives  and  destinies.  Poverty 
cannot be eradicated if it is still considered an obstacle 
to  the  building  of  citizenship.  The  problem  in  Latin 
America  —  the  region  of  the  world  with  the  greatest 
inequality in terms of wealth and income — is poverty 
caused by an absence of justice.
The  strength, 
independence  and  effectiveness 
of  the  justice  system  is  the  foundation  for  economic 
15-29223
3/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
and  political  freedoms.  In  our  country,  the  greatest 
discrimination suffered by the majority of the population 
living in poverty and those neglected in various ways, 
that is, the invisible Guatemala, is that they cannot find 
justice when they appeal to it.
Mario  Vargas  Llosa  noted  that  the  greatness  of 
Great  Britain  in  the  nineteenth  century  lay  not  in  its 
industrialists,  adventurers  or  military  officers,  but  in 
those dark judges, with their heads covered by ridiculous 
wigs,  who,  through  their  actions,  were  teaching  the 
entire population that the law was the same for rich and 
poor, and that a modest court could punish the powerful 
neither more nor less than the powerless and could also 
redress large and small injustices.
Equality before the law is what has characterized 
the  democratic  spring  we  are  now  experiencing.  The 
Office  of  the  Public  Prosecutor,  with  the  support 
of  the  International  Commission  against  Impunity 
in  Guatemala,  established  in  2006  by  an  agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Government  of 
our  country,  has  identified,  investigated  and  worked 
to dismantle criminal networks that have affected the 
fundamental  rights  of  the  population.  The  current 
President  of  Guatemala,  as  a  constitutional  judge,  is 
one of the signatories of the decision that approved the 
International Commission against Impunity.
Justice  for  women  in  particular  is  necessary  in 
order  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goal  of 
promoting  gender  equality  and  empowering  women. 
Very  few  women  participate  in  decision-making  in 
Government agencies. That inferiority is absurd when 
we  consider  that  justice  is  represented  by  a  feminine 
image.  We  call  for  addressing  the  struggle  of  women 
for their rights and interests so as to create a new era 
in  which men and women  share the responsibility for 
leadership and peace.
We  express  our  solidarity  with  the  migrants 
suffering  a  humanitarian  tragedy  in  various  parts  of 
the world, including along the borders of Europe, and 
with  the  Central  American  migration,  particularly 
the  migration  of  unaccompanied  migrant  children. 
The  Guatemalan  identity  has  been  determined  by  the 
volume of migration and the status of exiles. Both exile 
and  migration  have  their  roots  in  despair,  but  do  not 
lead to the same hopes. Migrants do not renounce the 
possibility of return. Exiles, however, hastily abandon 
their  homeland  to  save  their  lives  and  cannot  return 
until  the  circumstances  that  led  to  their  agonizing 
departure change.
The  invisible  Guatemala,  made  up  of  indigenous 
people  and  peasants  who  have  been  marginalized  by 
the  system,  has  not  been  satisfied  with  the  resigned 
approach  taken  by  their  leaders;  it  has  flooded  the 
streets  to  warn  that  the  amendment  of  a  few  laws  is 
not  enough.  They  demand  reforms  of  the  State  for  a 
profound  transformation  of  the  economic,  social  and 
political  system  that  would  allow  them  to  overcome 
poverty,  exclusion  and  racism,  thereby  developing  a 
true concept of national and international solidarity, an 
essential element of peace and security.
The  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala  has 
echoed the complaint of the citizens and, to that end, 
he will, in the Council of Ministers, put forward to the 
Congress  of  the  Republic  legislative  initiatives  that 
reflect the demands for reform and the healing of the 
political system as a first step in reorganizing the State.
This  Summit  brings  us  together  to  finalize  an 
ambitious  programme  to  eradicate  poverty,  promote 
prosperity  and  the  well-being  of  people  and  protect 
the environment. There is a relevant reference to such 
aspirations  in  the  Popul Vuh,  the  Magna  Carta  of  the 
Guatemalan soul, with its pure form of the Guatemalan 
morning call:
“Let  all  rise  up.  Call  everyone.  Let  no  one  stay 
behind. Not one or two among us, but all of us as 
one.”
The Acting President: I thank the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Guatemala for his statement.
Mr. Juan Alfonso Fuentes Soria, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Guatemala, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Rama (Albania): Despite all the progress and 
growth achieved, the world is still home to unbearable 
poverty, to people who continue to lack basic needs and 
vital  services,  which  is  unacceptable,  and  to  various 
insecurities  and  multiple  challenges.  This  new,  bold, 
ambitious  and  transformative  global  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) demonstrates 
our  commitment  to  lift  people  from  exclusion  to 
inclusion,  from  poverty  to  the  path  of  prosperity  and 
from insecurity to predictability and solutions, and to 
4/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
move from a simple collaboration to global partnership. 
It is the pact of a generation turning towards its future 
in a world that moves forward at a faster pace. It is a new 
global deal with a solemn promise that no one should be 
left behind. In the common goal of coherent, inclusive 
and  collaborative  action  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  within  the  next  15  years,  we  are 
committing to a life of dignity for all.
The  new  Agenda  is  universally  applicable,  and  it 
concerns all of us, all countries, with all our differences 
and  distinct  national  realities.  It  certainly  concerns 
my  country,  Albania.  Let  me  briefly  explain  what 
sustainability  means  to  us  for  the  present  and  the 
coming  years.  It  means  reinforcing  the  rule  of  law, 
strengthening  our  society’s  democratic  values  and 
deepening  our  broad-based  social  harmony.  Those 
are  the  foundations  of  our  development  path  and  the 
guarantees of our social cohesion.
religion, 
and 
cooperation are some of the main assets of Albanians, 
wherever  they  live,  not  only  in  Albania.  In  his  visit 
to  Albania  —  his  very  first  visit  in  Europe  —  Pope 
Francis  stated  that  Albanians’  interreligious  harmony 
was an inspiring example for the world, showing that 
Christian/Muslim  coexistence  is  not  only  possible 
but  beneficial  for  our  country’s  development  and  that 
Albania is a unique country where peaceful coexistence 
and  collaboration  exist  among  Muslims,  Catholics, 
Orthodox Christians and people of no faith at all.
coexistence 
Social 
cohesion, 
Albania has been, still is and will remain an example 
of coexistence, as it is based on a real, untouchable part 
of  history.  We  have  gone  through  a  long  and  painful 
transition,  which  has  brought  about  profound  change, 
but  has  also  unveiled  disparities.  We  need  to  further 
refine  an  inclusive  domestic  economic  agenda,  based 
on  continued  growth,  while  being  respectful  of  the 
environment. We need increased employment in general 
and  the  integration  of  youth  in  the  labour  markets  in 
particular,  as  well  as  the  inclusion  of  persons  with 
disabilities.  In  addition,  all  that  which  contributes  to 
development and the empowerment of women and girls 
are key elements.
The  provision  of  high-quality  education  and  free, 
high-quality health care for all, which are already two 
main  priority  areas  of  our  development  agenda,  will 
keep  us  very  busy  in  the  years  ahead.  They  will  be 
crucial  components  on  our  road  to  sustainability.  At 
present, we are embarking on a transformative judicial 
reform, a vital process that will bring the State and the 
citizens closer, give justice its true meaning and deeply 
and  positively  impact  the  way  the  country  will  move 
ahead in the coming years.
Like  other  countries,  we  have  embarked  on  the 
irreversible  process  of  European  integration,  which, 
to  put  it  simply,  includes  and  affects  everything  we 
do.  Energy  security,  water  management,  waste  and 
sanitation,  rural  development,  territorial  management 
and  urbanization,  just  to  mention  a  few  key  areas  of 
sustainability, are all part of it.
Albania  is  evolving  within  a  region,  the  Balkans, 
that is still struggling to find its proper place in a united 
Europe.  Yet  while  qualifying  for  European  Union 
membership, we are doing everything we can through 
concrete  initiatives  to  bring  all  the  countries  of  the 
Western Balkans closer and to increase cooperation in 
every field. It is common knowledge that the more we 
cooperate with each other, the more we share, the more 
connected  we  become,  the  more  we  know  and  accept 
each other, the better our chances will be of living and 
working together in peace and harmony. Cooperation is 
of course key to sustainability.
Presenting a vision of the 15 years ahead in a few 
minutes  is  an  almost  impossible  mission,  but  I  think 
that what really counts is not what and how much we say 
here, but what and how much we do in our respective 
countries and regions.
Let me therefore conclude by highlighting that the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  embodied  in  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  represents  a 
remarkable success on the part of multilateral diplomacy 
based on a bold sense of collective responsibility. The 
same  spirit  should  lead  us  to  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Paris  this  December.  A  long-
overdue  agreement  there  will  give  our  commitments 
here  true  meaning,  the  missing  component  without 
which the Agenda will not be complete, and will provide 
a much-needed tool for the protection of our planet, our 
life and our future.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Albania for his statement.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway.
15-29223
5/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway, was escorted to the rostrum.
Ms.  Solberg  (Norway):  We  are  meeting  today  at 
a  time  of  great  hope,  but  also  grave  crisis.  We  have 
hope  when  we  see  the  success  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals: 1 billion people have come out of 
extreme  poverty;  maternal  mortality  rates  have  been 
halved; millions of people have been saved by vaccine 
partnerships. We have hope when we look at the historic 
2030 Agenda (resolution 70/1) we have agreed on today, 
which  aims  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  hunger, 
to  conserve  oceans  and  ecosystems,  to  leave  nobody 
behind. We have hope for the most vulnerable people, 
for the United Nations and for our common future on 
this planet.
Yet at the same time, a global humanitarian crisis 
is unfolding. Sixty million people are now refugees or 
displaced. They are fleeing conflict, poverty and poor 
governance.  The  war  in  Syria  has  forced  12  million 
people from their homes. Others are fleeing economic 
hardship  and  fragile  States.  We  need  to  spread  good 
governance and the rule of law to the most vulnerable 
people and societies. Business as usual will not lead to 
real sustainable development.
Let  us  follow  up  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for 
human  dignity,  first,  by  scaling  up  humanitarian 
assistance to save lives and meet urgent needs, including 
in protracted crises. This is an investment in resilience 
and in human development. The United Nations appeals 
for the Syrian crisis are severely underfunded. We have 
to  do  more.  This  is  why  we  have  offered  to  host  an 
international  donor  conference  for  Syria  and  we  have 
doubled our humanitarian aid to the Syrian crisis. We 
call on all nations to be generous, so that we prevent a 
lost generation.
Secondly, we must invest in education and health. 
Almost  60  million  children  are  still  not  in  primary 
school.  Another  60  million  do  not  attend  secondary 
school.
Gender equality and women’s rights must be a top 
priority  for  all.  When  girls  attend  secondary  school, 
this brings about huge health benefits, not just for the 
girls  themselves,  but  for  their  children,  families  and 
local communities. This is why Norway will double its 
assistance to education.
Globally, millions of children need good nutrition 
the  successful 
and  education.  We  can  build  on 
partnerships in global health. The Global Alliance for 
Vaccines  and  Immunization  and  the  Global  Fund  are 
excellent examples. Education and health are the keys 
to inclusive growth and job creation.
Thirdly, we must invest in stability and resilience 
in fragile societies. Without peace and stability, there 
will be no sustainable development. Goal 16, on stable 
institutions,  rights  and  freedoms,  the  rule  of  law  and 
justice, is an important innovation in the 2030 Agenda. 
These  are  all  key  elements  of  good  economics  and 
democratic governance.
We  must  also  step  up  efforts  to  find  political 
solutions to conflicts. Norway will continue its support 
for  peace  and  reconciliation  in  the  Middle  East, 
Colombia, South-East Asia and Africa.
Fourthly, we must protect ecosystems and prevent 
climate  change.  Through  close  regional  cooperation, 
we  have  secured  sustainable  management  of  common 
fish  stocks  in  the  North.  Now  we  support  developing 
countries  in  the  important  mapping  of  their  marine 
resources.  We  will  continue  to  work  with  Brazil, 
Indonesia, Liberia, Colombia and Peru to protect forests 
and biodiversity.
Our goals are universal. They apply to all countries 
and all people. More than ever, the responsibility rests 
with all Governments to promote business investments 
and job creation, to create greener and more inclusive 
economic  growth.  Official  development  assistance 
remains  important.  Norway  will  continue  to  give  one 
per  cent  of  gross  national  income  as  development 
assistance. But poverty reduction depends primarily on 
domestic resources and economic growth in partnership 
with the private sector. We cannot solve this problem 
without  achieving  more  equal  distribution  of  wealth. 
National  Governments  must  take  ownership.  We  will 
use aid as a catalyst to raise revenues and fight poverty. 
Norway  will  do  its  utmost,  both  at  home  and  abroad. 
We can end extreme poverty and save the planet. If we 
work together in partnerships and through multilateral 
cooperation.
Let  us  build  on  the  positive  momentum  from 
this  Summit  as  we  prepare  for  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change to be held in Paris.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Norway for her statement.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Norway, was escorted from the rostrum.
6/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister of the Principality of 
Liechtenstein.
Mr.  Adrian  Hasler,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Principality  of  Liechtenstein,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Mr. Hasler (Liechtenstein): This is a proud moment 
for the United Nations. By adopting the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  we  are 
crossing  the  threshold  to  a  new  era  of  international 
collaboration.  We  are  promising  nothing  less  than  a 
better life for future generations, and we have reason to 
be optimistic that we can keep this promise.
We have come a long way. With the 2030 Agenda, 
we  are  building  on  the  success  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, but we have also learned from their 
weaknesses and designed a blueprint for the future.
The new Agenda fully recognizes that sustainable 
development  can  be  achieved  only  by  tackling  all 
of  its  three  dimensions:  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental.  We  are  finally  connecting  the  dots. 
We  will  not  be  able  to  increase  prosperity  if  we  fail 
to  preserve  our  planet.  Our  investment  in  our  people 
will not yield any return if we fail to invest equally in 
women and men, girls and boys. And we will achieve 
our goals only if we truly commit to the rule of law and 
to a new global partnership.
The Goals and targets apply to all States equally. 
Today  every  Member  State  is  publicly  committing  to 
creating an environment that will help mobilize domestic 
resources  and  private  investments  for  sustainable 
development. This is a challenging task — one that will 
help  us  overcome  outdated  categories,  such  as  those 
of developed and developing countries and donors and 
recipients.
The  Agenda  is  the  result  of  a  fully  inclusive 
process. Member States worked alongside civil society, 
the private sector and other stakeholders. This may not 
have resulted in the shortest document possible, but it 
has resulted in an Agenda for all people.
Liechtenstein  is  well-prepared.  We  have  made 
great efforts towards ensuring sustainable development 
in  recent  years.  Liechtenstein  reached,  and  even 
exceeded, the official development assistance target of 
0.7 per cent in 2012. My Government will continue its 
commitment to the internationally agreed development 
targets.  I  hope  that  other  countries  will  also  do  their 
best to meet the 0.7 per cent target.
We focus in particular on long-term development. 
For example, our support goes to projects on including 
women in peace processes, on demining farmland and 
on promoting good governance and the rule of law.
Liechtenstein  is  home  to  a  financial  centre  that 
fully  complies  with  international  standards.  It  is  no 
haven for illicit financial flows. We have an effective 
system  in  place  to  prevent  and  detect  the  transfer  of 
proceeds  of  corruption  and  to  freeze  and  return  such 
assets. Our authorities continue to share their expertise 
with  the  relevant  international  programmes.  We  also 
support international cooperation in tax matters, based 
on the principle of a level playing field. Most important, 
Liechtenstein  has  committed  to  the  early  adoption  of 
the new global standard on the automatic exchange of 
information. 
Liechtenstein  has  also  been  at  the  forefront  of 
global efforts to protect the planet. We have committed 
to  reducing  carbon  emissions  to  40  per  cent  of  our 
1990 level. We are on the right track. Since 1990, our 
population  has  grown  by  25  per  cent  and  our  gross 
domestic  product  by  140  per  cent.  Yet  our  emissions 
today are already lower than they were 16 years ago. 
The  goals  and  targets  we  have  set  for  ourselves 
are highly ambitious. Monitoring their implementation 
is  therefore  key  to  their  success.  The  High-level 
Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development  will  be 
the centrepiece of this effort at the global level. It will 
allow us to recognize problems, learn from one another 
and exchange best practices, with all stakeholders at the 
table.
The  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  and 
the 
successful third International Conference on Financing 
for  Development  are  also  proof  that  multilateralism 
remains  alive  and  functioning.  This  should  give  us 
hope that we can succeed a third time when we gather 
in Paris to agree on a new climate change agreement. 
Let us seize that opportunity for the sake of our peoples 
and our planet.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Principality of Liechtenstein for his statement. 
Mr.  Adrian  Hasler,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Principality  of  Liechtenstein,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 
15-29223
7/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance and Corporate Governance of Antigua and 
Barbuda. 
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister for Finance and Corporate Governance of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum. 
Mr. Browne (Antigua and Barbuda): We as leaders 
are gathered here with one mission and a singular hope 
for the transformation of our world by 2030. We are a 
community  of  nations,  a  brotherhood  and  sisterhood. 
It  is  therefore  important  for  us  to  understand  and 
respect differing views, outlooks and objectives among 
ourselves. At this Summit, in the name of the nations 
we  represent,  we  have  adopted  a  grand  statement 
with pledges and promises (resolution 70/1), and with 
the usual phrases: “we pledge that no one will be left 
behind” and “we commit ourselves to working tirelessly 
for the full implementation of the Agenda by 2030”.
failed 
their  promises, 
including 
announced 
Previous  declarations  have 
to  deliver 
the 
on  a  number  of 
Millennium  Declaration,  which 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  remain  partly 
unaccomplished  today.  Antigua  and  Barbuda  calls 
on  the  international  community  to  commit  to  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  to  its  Sustainable 
Development Goals as a guide to eradicating poverty. 
Inequality  within  and  among  countries 
is  still 
unjustifiable, while the majority of the world’s poorest 
live in middle-income countries. 
I appeal to developed countries to continue to hold 
true  to  past  commitments,  including  fulfilling  their 
official development assistance mandates. North-South 
cooperation  remains  the  core  of  this  partnership,  and 
strengthened commitment from developed countries is 
therefore required to enhance international cooperation 
and scale up support for developing countries. South-
South  cooperation  from  developing  countries  that  are 
in a position to offer assistance should not be seen as a 
replacement  of  commitments  by  developed  countries, 
but  instead  as  complementary  to  achieving  sustained 
development.
More  frequent  and 
intense  natural  disasters 
arising  from  the  climate  change  that  some  countries 
unconscionably  deny  continue  to  devastate  small 
countries  in  the  Caribbean  and  the  Pacific.  The  post-
2015  development  agenda  must  address  issues  of 
climate  change  and  environmental  sustainability.  We 
call for the strengthening of global partnerships in our 
efforts to build resilience in order to be able to absorb 
internal  and  external  shocks  and  increase  economic 
viability,  including  the  right  to  development  and  to 
achieve sustained development.
The  economic  and  social  development  initiatives 
of  small  countries,  particularly  in  financial  services, 
are crippled by the unilateral actions of big countries 
and  their  institutions.  Unfair  and  uneven  trade  and 
investment  pacts  are 
imposed  upon  developing 
countries with little regard to the crude disadvantages 
that they inflict. And extraterritorial laws are enforced 
by economic pressures that developing countries cannot 
withstand.
Yet  international  laws  are  being  ignored  when  it 
comes to powerful countries fulfilling their obligations 
to  weak  ones.  In  the  Declaration  contained  in  the 
resolution we have adopted, 
to 
refrain 
from 
“States  are  strongly  urged 
promulgating and applying any unilateral economic, 
financial or trade measures not in accordance with 
international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  that  impede  the  full  achievement  of 
economic  and  social  development,  particularly  in 
developing countries” (resolution 70/1, para. 30). 
But  we  do  no  more  than  urge  States  to  refrain  from 
unilateral  economic,  financial  or  trade  measures;  we 
do not prohibit them, nor do we condemn those who do 
apply such unilateral measures.
In  that  respect,  the  Declaration  acknowledges 
that  our  countries  still  exist  in  a  world  of  disparities, 
defined by power. Despite all the grand statements and 
declarations that are made, we remain a world divided 
between  rich  and  poor,  between  powerful  and  weak, 
where might is right. That is our sad reality.
in 
We  make  a  number  of  affirmations 
the 
Declaration.  Among  them  are  the  recognition  that 
each  country  has  the  primary  responsibility  for  its 
own economic and social development and that every 
State  has,  and  shall  freely  exercise,  full  permanent 
sovereignty  over  all  its  wealth,  natural  resources  and 
economic activity.
At  this  Summit,  we  proclaim  17  Sustainable 
Development Goals with 169 targets. We also announce 
that  the  new  Goals  and  targets  will  come  into  effect 
on 1 January 2016. But we must remind ourselves that 
announcing those Goals and targets is not the same as 
8/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
achieving them. Therefore, while we should take some 
comfort  from  the  fact  that  we  were  able  to  agree  on 
them, celebration should await the delivery of results.
Our  nations  have  yet  to  recognize  the  global 
society in which we live, our planetary civilization, our 
interdependence and the duty of care that we countries 
have to one another. If we are to stop small islands from 
disappearing  because  of  climate  change,  if  we  are  to 
stop  the  steady  flow  of  refugees  resulting  from  poor 
economic conditions, and if we are to stop the spread of 
disease that occurs in conditions of poverty, we must be 
truly committed to what we say.
The Assembly will forgive me for taking a practical 
and  realistic  view  of  our  meeting  today.  I  am  glad 
that  we  are  holding  this  Summit.  I  am  glad  for  the 
Declaration that we are jointly issuing, if only because 
it is a measure of the pledges and resolutions of all of 
us, to which each of us can be held. It is the mirror in 
which we will see our faces in 2030.
We  must  not  just  say  what  we  will  do;  we  must 
do  what  we  say.  We  should  recommit  to  broadening 
and  strengthening  the  voice  and  participation  of 
developing  countries  —  including  African  countries, 
least  developed  countries, 
landlocked  developing 
countries,  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  and 
middle-income countries — in international economic 
decision-making,  norm-setting  and  global  economic 
governance.
Small  island  developing  States  recognize  the 
enormity of this moment and the new era that we are 
approaching. We ask the world to prioritize us because 
of  our  unique  geographical  characteristics.  We  have 
no  ability  to  change  our  categorization  as  SIDS.  We 
can neither graduate nor upgrade nor be elevated from 
being SIDS.
Our challenges are unique; we ask that we not be 
marginalized  for  those  characteristics  that  make  us 
unique. Do not marginalize us because we are fragile, 
do not marginalize us because we are vulnerable, and 
do  not  marginalize  us  because  we  are  small;  instead, 
prioritize us for those very reasons.
In  closing,  I  would  like  this  Summit  to  be 
remembered as a defining moment in human history. I 
would like it to be the Summit whose outcome was not 
just another declaration; not just another statement of 
goals and targets, but one that actually led to positive 
results. The judgement as to whether it is such a defining 
moment will have to be postponed until 2030, the date 
we have set to meet the Goals and targets.
I hope that in 15 years’ time, our peoples will not 
judge  us  harshly.  Let  us  therefore  create  a  new  post-
2015 global development architecture that will be truly 
inclusive, democratic and, certainly, egalitarian. A post-
2015 world should be a world in which there is mutual 
respect and understanding, a world of collaboration and 
commitment and of equality of opportunity and justice, 
so that the little boys and girls of Antigua and Barbuda 
can have the same opportunities as little boys and little 
girls in the developed world, a world where the voice 
of Antigua and Barbuda can be a unified voice of the 
world, a world where Antigua and Barbuda’s economy 
is allowed to flourish just like those in the developed 
world,  a  world  where  all  Antiguans  and  Barbudans 
and  our  global  brothers  and  sisters  share  the  same 
opportunities, because we as leaders took a stand and 
ensured that all peoples are prosperous and happy with 
the new transformative post-2015 world.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of Antigua and Barbuda for his statement.
Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Slovenia.
Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Cerar (Slovenia): The new Agenda is the most 
comprehensive  development  action  plan  so  far.  It  is 
global and universal. It is visionary. It is concrete. It is 
people- and planet-centred. It promises to leave no one 
behind and to build a life of dignity for each and every 
individual.
Why  does  Slovenia  believe  that  this  new  Agenda 
can make a difference?
First, it provides a firm commitment to implement 
the unfinished business of the Millennium Development 
Goals, so that all men, women, boys and girls, no matter 
which country they live in, are able to fulfil their basic 
human needs, always and forever. This was our promise 
15 years ago. We have already achieved a lot, but we 
need  to  make  a  greater  effort  to  fully  deliver  on  our 
promise.
15-29223
9/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
Secondly, 
the  new  Agenda 
reaffirms  our 
commitment to the respect, protection and promotion of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without 
discrimination  on  any  grounds.  Only  universality, 
indivisibility and the inalienability of human rights can 
guarantee that no one is left behind. Gender equality, 
the empowerment of women and the protection of their 
rights  is  an  important  and  integral  part  of  the  new 
Agenda.
Thirdly,  the  new  Agenda  recognizes  a  strong 
connection  between  peace,  security  and  sustainable 
development  and,  at  the  same  time,  emphasizes  the 
economic,  social  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
sustainable development.
The  new  Agenda  also  responds  to  other  global 
challenges  such  as  migration.  The  global  migration 
crisis, which we are currently facing not only in Europe 
but  also  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  requires  urgent 
action.  First  and  foremost,  we  should  address  its  root 
causes and prevent any further loss of life.
My  country, 
together  with  other  European 
countries, has intensified its activities in resolving the 
current migration crisis in Europe. The main principles 
of  our  action  are  based  on  not  only  humanity  and 
solidarity, but also security.
We  should  pool  our  efforts  in  combating  illegal 
migration and suppressing the trafficking of migrants 
and  human  beings.  This  cannot  be  the  responsibility 
of any one country; it is a shared responsibility of the 
whole international community.
There is another pressing global challenge that needs 
our  immediate  attention:  climate  change.  I  sincerely 
hope that the successful adoption of the Addis Ababa 
Action  Agenda  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  will  be  complemented  by  an  ambitious, 
durable, universal and legally binding agreement later 
this year in Paris. It goes without saying that such an 
agreement is essential for sustainable development, and 
time is quickly running out.
Implementation  will  be  a  common 
journey. 
Everyone should participate; we will be successful only 
if we work together. We have a strong implementation 
framework;  it  provides  us  with  the  full  spectrum  of 
means  to  successfully  implement  the  new  Agenda. 
Official  development  assistance  (ODA)  will  remain  a 
key element of development funding. In line with our 
public-finance  capabilities,  Slovenia  will  strive  to 
increase  the  volume  of  ODA  funds  and  improve  the 
quality of ODA. We will prepare a national plan for the 
gradual increase of ODA so as to fulfil our commitment 
in the time frame of the new Agenda.
Slovenia’s approach to the implementation process 
will  follow  two  tracks.  We  will  implement  the  new 
Agenda  at  the  national  level,  including  through  the 
preparation  of  a  new  Slovenia  development  strategy, 
which is already under way.
We will also contribute to poverty eradication and 
sustainable development on the basis of updated legal 
and strategic documents on international development 
cooperation. In the 10 years of my country’s involvement 
in  international  development  cooperation,  we  have 
contributed to the economic, social and environmental 
progress of more than 80 developing countries.
Our  goal  for  the  future  is  clear:  to  further 
strengthen  our  international  development  cooperation 
and demonstrate that the efforts of small donor countries 
can also be an important contribution to the realization 
of  global  development  objectives.  I  am  confident  that 
we will succeed.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
the opportunity of a lifetime. We need to seize it. We 
need to embrace it. We need to realize it. We should not 
forget that we are doing this for our people, our future 
generations and our planet.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Slovenia for his statement.
Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Sopoaga (Tuvalu): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  Tuvalu  on  this  occasion  of  the  Summit 
for  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  May  the  good  Lord  bless  us  all  at  this 
gathering.
I would first like to add to others’ my congratulations 
to Mr. Sam Kutesa, outgoing President of the General 
Assembly, to the current President and to the co-Chairs 
of the Summit for their extraordinary leadership of our 
work.  I  also  wish  to  commend  the  Secretary-General 
and his staff and all the Permanent Missions and their 
10/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
partners for their dedicated commitment to producing 
the Goals and targets for our new Agenda.
Today, as we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), we were aware that this 
year is also the seventieth anniversary of this body, for 
which  I  offer  Tuvalu’s  sincere  congratulations.  Long 
live the United Nations, its Charter and its noble values 
and principles. We have all worked hard and diligently 
to map out the future we want — a world where poverty 
and  hunger  are  eradicated;  where  peace  and  security, 
good  governance  and  opportunity  are  shared  equally; 
where every citizen’s human rights and larger freedoms 
are  honoured  and  realized  with  dignity;  where  all 
individuals  are  empowered  to  better  their  lives  and 
our  planet  is  healed  and  sustained  for  successive 
generations. That is everybody’s agenda.
The  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
and the road map for them must be implemented with 
commitment and dedication if we are to transform our 
world  into  one  that  is  focused  on  peace,  security  and 
prosperity. Our actions must address the root causes of 
poverty,  human  vulnerabilities  and  human  insecurity. 
They must free the human race from all discrimination 
and address our increasing disparities, including trade 
imbalances and the digital divide.
Our primary target must be the most marginalized, 
the poorest and most vulnerable and the discriminated 
against; those who have lost their self-worth or dropped 
out of formal education systems; those who lack access 
to health care; those whose human rights are ignored or 
who are marginalized by the nature of their countries’ 
physical  geographical  features.  They  are  the  ones  we 
should focus on, for they are the ones who are closest 
to being easily left behind. Each country will craft and 
drive  its  own  agenda,  but  we  support  wholeheartedly 
the call for partnerships in the means of implementation 
and,  for  example,  the  inclusion  of  the  Technology 
Facilitation Mechanism, as agreed on in Addis Ababa 
at the third International Conference on Financing for 
Development. It is also critical to ensure that application 
of the means is based on an inclusive approach aimed 
at benefiting all.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of 
the Government and the people of Tuvalu, to offer our 
sincere and heartfelt appreciation to the Members of the 
United Nations that, directly or indirectly, have helped 
Tuvalu  with  its  development  via  the  pathway  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. We are also grateful 
to  non-members  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
partners such as Taiwan, Republic of China, for their 
continued  assistance,  which  has  greatly  supported 
our  development  efforts.  It  is  vital  that  this  type  of 
multilateralism  be  maintained  if  the  17  new  Goals 
and 169 targets that we have set are to be strategically 
attained.
Our new Agenda must be supported by institutional 
reforms in the United Nations targeted to making the 
Secretariat,  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council fit for purpose. We must strengthen capacities 
and technicians not only at the United Nations but also 
at the country level. It is also our view that a reformed 
Security  Council  should  include  climate  change  as  a 
security issue and a permanent agenda item, given the 
security threats that the effects of climate change are 
causing,  particularly  for  highly  vulnerable  countries, 
such  as  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  in  the 
Pacific,  the  Caribbean,  the  Indian  Ocean  and  other 
parts of the world.
We must also commit to monitoring and reviewing 
our  progress  in  order  to  sustain  and  focus  our 
transformative  Agenda.  The  role  of  the  High-level 
Political  Forum,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council, is critical in that regard. In addition, 
we should conduct a proper review, particularly where 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  concerned,  of 
the  criteria  for  least  developed  countries  and  their 
application,  especially  to  the  least  developed  SIDS, 
in  order  to  better  account  for  those  countries’  unique 
vulnerabilities.
Under the regime of the Millennium Development 
Goals, we achieved successes. But there are still many 
unresolved  issues,  gaps  and  chronic  and  protracted 
discords. The world is so technically and technologically 
sophisticated and yet, for example, we cannot overcome 
the energy crisis that is linked to the causes of climate 
change. We have one question: why? Why are we still 
in  this  situation?  We  world  leaders  who  are  here  to 
formally  adopt  the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  we  hold  the  answer  to  that  question. 
We,  the  leaders,  must  step  up  for  we,  the  people.  As 
much  as  we  need  capacity  enhancement,  science, 
data and new technology, we must match all that with 
leadership.  Leadership  must  demand  that  the  only 
things that should be left behind are wars, inequality, 
bad  governance,  self-interest,  greed  and  a  profit-only 
mentality.  Leadership  means  re-targeting  our  efforts 
away from strife and towards saving lives. Leadership 
15-29223
11/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
is  about  reaching  the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  income  for  official  development  assistance, 
and  about  helping  the  most  vulnerable,  particularly 
least developed countries and SIDS. Tuvalu welcomes 
the  parliamentary  speakers’  38-point  declaration, 
which encourages us leaders to be accountable for our 
SDG outputs.
Tuvalu  is  pleased  that,  in  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  and  the 
2030  Agenda,  SIDS  are  recognized  as  a  special  case 
with  unique  vulnerabilities  —  social,  economic  and 
environmental — and particularly a vulnerability to the 
effects of climate change. If the post-2015 Agenda seeks 
to  respect,  protect  and  fulfil  all  human  rights  for  all 
peoples, we need, at the forthcoming Paris Conference 
on  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, to reach a credible and comprehensive 
agreement that sets a goal of achieving a temperature 
stabilization  level  well  below  1.5°  Celsius  above  that 
of  pre-industrial  times.  It  must  include  a  new  stand-
alone,  permanent  loss-and-damage  mechanism  that  is 
separate from adaptation activities. It must also include 
a  mechanism  that  facilitates  the  fast  tracking  and 
mobilization of funding resources for urgent adaptation 
actions.
But  the  vast  disparity  and  physical  distance 
between  SIDS  such  as  Tuvalu  and  world  centres, 
especially the United Nations, makes it imperative that 
under  the  new  Agenda  we  see  increased  connectivity 
and inclusiveness, and certainly an increased presence 
of the United Nations on the ground in Tuvalu and other 
far-flung  SIDS.  We  must  not  continue  to  marginalize 
these most vulnerable members simply because of their 
distance  from  Headquarters.  They  remain  deserving 
and  needy,  particularly  as  they  try  to  cope  with  the 
elements of disaster and climate change.
In conclusion, I would like to express our sincere 
gratitude to members of the international community, 
including our own island neighbours and bodies in the 
Pacific, the United Nations Development Programme, 
the World Bank, the Economic and Social Commission 
for Asia and the Pacific, the Asian Development Bank 
and  others,  and  to  our  bilateral  friends  from  around 
the globe who so kindly responded by supporting and 
helping  Tuvalu  following  the  devastation  wrought  by 
Tropical  Cyclone  Pam  earlier  this  year.  We  greatly 
value  their  support  and  look  forward  to  continuing 
our  partnership  in  our  recovery  and  future  protection 
efforts. We thank them. Tuvalu will never forget their 
generosity.
Tuvalu pledges its full support to the new agenda, 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development”. Let us work together to free 
the human race from the tyranny of poverty and want, 
and  to  heal  and  secure  our  one  planet  for  successive 
generations.  Let  us  lead  by  example  in  order  to  shift 
the  world’s  development  trajectory  onto  a  sustainable 
and resilient path, a path that can save human beings, 
Tuvalu and the world.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of Tuvalu for his statement.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of Barbados.
Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister of Barbados, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Stuart (Barbados): There are defining moments 
in human affairs when differences dividing countries and 
cultures are laid aside in pursuit of the higher common 
purpose  of  benefiting  all  humankind.  Our  modern 
era has witnessed two such moments: the Millennium 
Declaration  in  2000  and  now  the  establishment  of  a 
post-2015 development agenda. The gathering of world 
leaders to adopt eight international development goals 
some  15  years  ago  represented  unprecedented  hope 
at  the  dawn  of  a  new  millennium.  The  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) highlighted the intention 
of the global community to eradicate extreme poverty 
and  hunger  and  promote  sustained  economic  growth 
and sustainable development.
Since  becoming  independent,  in  1966,  Barbados 
has pursued the goal of eradicating many of the social 
and economic contradictions that we inherited from our 
colonial  past.  In  that  connection,  the  Administration 
over which I have the honour to preside has crafted a 
vision of creating a Barbados that is socially balanced, 
economically  viable,  environmentally  sound  and 
characterized by good governance. That vision brings 
us  squarely  in  line  with  the  ideals  embodied  in  the 
international  development  agenda  that  this  special 
Summit  of  the  United  Nations  has  been  convened  to 
endorse.
12/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) developed 
a  set  of  region-specific  MDGs  to  cater  to  the  unique 
realities  of  our  region  and  member  States.  Gender, 
violence,  and  chronic  non-communicable  diseases 
were and are among our priorities. Though buttressed 
by our dreams, our progress in achieving the MDGs has 
regrettably been limited by our capacity to finance our 
development objectives. With the citizens of the world 
impatient  for  progress,  we  must  invest  our  collective 
intellectual capital and the technology at our disposal 
in the design of the tools and the mechanisms we need 
to realize the promise of our stated goals.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) provides us with a blueprint for achieving 
the transformation we seek. But that blueprint must be 
translated into reality and take us seamlessly from the 
eight Goals and 18 targets of the MDGs to the 17 Goals 
and 169 targets of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
The unprecedented scope of the 2030 Agenda rises to 
the challenges facing today’s interconnected world and 
is firmly rooted in the three dimensions of sustainable 
development  —  the  economic,  environmental  and 
social.  Even  more  important,  it  is  undergirded  by  a 
people-centred and planet-sensitive ethos, with people, 
the planet, prosperity, peace and partnership at its core.
The outcome of the third International Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development  —  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda  —  specifies  the  policies  and  actions 
needed 
sustainable 
development.  Now  is  the  time  for  us  to  address  the 
need to develop transparent measurements of progress 
that  reach  far  beyond  the  narrow  scope  of  per  capita 
gross domestic product. Small island developing States 
(SIDS)  such  as  ours  should  not  be  punished  for  the 
limited development that we have been able to achieve, 
very often against stubborn and unyielding odds.
finance  our 
to 
countries’ 
The third International Conference of Small Island 
Developing  States,  held  last  year  in  Samoa,  built  on 
the  platforms  of  the  prior  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action  of  1994  and  the  2005  Mauritius  Strategy  of 
Implementation. It unequivocally reinforced the status 
of SIDS as a special case for sustainable development 
in view of their unique and particular vulnerabilities. 
The  long-term  effects  of  climate  change,  including 
the  ravages  of  more  frequent,  intense  and  destructive 
natural  disasters,  pose  an  existential  threat  to  small 
island  developing  States.  The  recent  devastation  of 
our  sister  country  Dominica  by  Tropical  Storm  Erika 
is  a  stark  reminder  of  that  peril.  Barbados  and  other 
CARICOM countries are firmly of the view that climate 
change  can  be  tackled  only  through  a  comprehensive 
international  effort,  grounded  in  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). 
For us, sustainable development and climate change are 
inextricably linked. Let us use the momentum of this 
Summit  to  ensure  the  adoption  of  a  meaningful  and 
ambitious accord in Paris at the twenty-first Conference 
of the Parties to the UNFCCC.
Our region desperately requires a strategy of debt 
relief in order to create more fiscal space and engineer 
much-needed economic development in order to realize 
the goals set out in the 2030 Agenda. A re-examination 
of the basis for the graduation of the countries of our 
region from access to concessional finance remains an 
urgent  necessity.  As  we  look  towards  the  future,  it  is 
important,  indeed  necessary,  that  previously  agreed 
commitments  be  kept.  The  United  Nations,  on  the 
strength  of  its  universal  membership,  legitimacy  and 
comprehensive  mandate,  will  play  a  pivotal  role  over 
the  next  15  years  in  reaching  the  goal  of  sustainable 
development.
But  we  cannot  put  new  wine  into  old  wineskins. 
As  we  consider  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
adequate, consistent and predictable financial support 
must be mobilized and allocated for the achievement of 
the Sustainable Development Goals. The acid test of the 
value of the Goals will be their impact on the quality of 
life of ordinary men, women and children everywhere.
The United Nations was created at a time when the 
world  was  grappling  with  the  political  and  economic 
consequences of a vast global conflict. Some 70 years 
later,  though  much  has  changed,  we  have  failed  to 
eliminate  the  scourge  of  war.  Development  cannot 
be  achieved  in  the  absence  of  peace.  The  post-2015 
development  agenda  is  our  compass  as  we  continue 
on  the  journey  towards  a  better  world  for  all.  With 
political  will  and  dedicated  action,  Agenda  2030  will 
ensure a safe and secure future for current and future 
generations. We cannot allow this historic opportunity 
to slip from our grasp.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of Barbados for his statement. 
Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister of Barbados, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. 
15-29223
13/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
Mr.  Desalegn  (Ethiopia):  It  gives  me  great 
pleasure to address this Summit of the United Nations 
on  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
(resolution 70/1). I wish to extend my congratulations 
to  the  co-Chairs  who  are  presiding  over  this  historic 
Summit.
It  is  difficult  to  conceive  of  a  more  fitting  time 
than  this,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our  universal 
Organization,  for  embarking  on  a  newly  revitalized 
international  partnership 
for  development.  The 
genuine  hope  we  have  is  that  this  Summit  signifies 
the commitment we all have made to transforming our 
world.  That  is  what  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development calls for. 
There is no doubt that our future lies in the actions 
we take to carry out the commitments we make. Never 
before  has  the  international  community  made  such  a 
bold and far-sighted commitment as the one we make 
now towards eradicating extreme poverty in a relatively 
short period of time:
At  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium,  we  leaders 
made  the  landmark  commitment  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration to spare no effort to free our people from 
the  dehumanizing  conditions  of  extreme  poverty. 
It  was  that  commitment  that  gave  birth  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  have 
been a true inspiration to all of us, and, through their 
implementation,  we  have  saved  the  lives  of  millions 
and  improved  conditions  for  many  more.  The  past 
15 years — the period of the MDGs — have indeed been 
ones of notable achievements. These accomplishments 
inspire us all to spare no effort and to continue to do 
more  to  overcome  the  many  development  challenges 
our world currently faces. 
Though  much  progress  has  been  made 
in 
the  MDGs,  we  should  nonetheless 
implementing 
acknowledge  that,  by  and  large,  the  MDGs  are 
unfinished business. Progress has been uneven across 
regions and countries. Moreover, despite that progress, 
many millions still live in poverty and hunger, without 
access to basic services. The gap between the poorest 
and richest households has widened. Gender inequality 
persists. Climate change and environmental degradation 
undermine the progress achieved, and conflicts remain 
the  biggest  threat  to  human  development.  All  these 
challenges call for urgent and concerted actions.
As  we  stand  at  the  dawn  of  a  new  development 
era,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  we 
are about to begin implementing will require far more 
concerted and resolute efforts than those witnessed in 
connection with the implementation of the MDGs. This 
is not because the SDGs are simply big in numbers, but 
because they are universally applicable and much more 
ambitious. 
There 
the  SDGs  represent 
aspirations to transform the international development 
cooperation landscape. Failure to achieve them in one 
country or region means failure in the entire world. We 
need  to  draw  lessons  from  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs.
is  no  doubt 
that 
One of the factors that contributed to the difficulties 
of  fulfilling  the  MDGs  was  the  problem  encountered 
in the provision of adequate means of implementation. 
As we are about to embark on a journey to implement 
the new Sustainable Development Agenda, we need to 
commence the journey with confidence, knowing that 
a great deal of work has already been done prior to this 
Summit. It was a couple of months ago that we agreed 
on means of implementation for the realization of the 
SDGs  when  we  gathered  in  Addis  Ababa  to  adopt  a 
comprehensive policy framework — the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda. That agenda has now become an integral 
part of the post-2015 development agenda and is critical 
for the achievement of the SDGs. It is therefore crucial 
that the international community ensures that the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda is fully implemented so that the 
SDGs can be fully realized. We are pleased that this is 
well reflected in the 2030 Agenda.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development means many things for us in the developing 
world, particularly in Africa. It means the beginning of 
the fight to eliminate extreme poverty once and for all. 
It  means  the  commencement  of  an  important  journey 
to  transform  our  respective  economies  into  high-
value sectors to generate jobs for our youth. It means 
developing  human-resource  capacity 
the 
creation of a learning society. And it means conserving 
our environment while adapting to and mitigating the 
effects of climate change.
through 
The coming years will no doubt continue to witness 
changes in the global political and economic landscapes. 
In order to serve our collective interest, these changes 
14/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
must be shaped by us in conformity with our common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities.  The  role  that  the 
United Nations plays in this regard is critical, and this 
Summit is an opportunity we must seize to commit to the 
realization of the aims and purposes of the Organization. 
For  all  its  imperfections,  the  United  Nations  is  still 
an  institution  for  which  there  is  no  substitute.  As  we 
commemorate its seventieth anniversary this year, the 
task that we give the Organization should be matched 
by the necessary political support to enable the United 
Nations to discharge its responsibilities.
We in Ethiopia are committed to embarking on the 
important journey of implementing the SDGs. We have 
now launched our next five-year national development 
plan  —  the  Growth  and  Transformation  Plan.  The 
task  of  mainstreaming  the  SDGs  into  that  plan  could 
not  have  come  at  a  better  time.  The  alignment  of 
these  development  strategies  therefore  affords  us  the 
opportunity  to  pursue  our  efforts  to  build  a  resilient 
and greener economy. As much as we are determined 
to  achieve  our  development  objectives  through  the 
mobilization  of  our  domestic  resources,  we  stand  a 
better  chance  of  realizing  them  fully  and  effectively 
if  our  efforts  are  supplemented  by  support  from  our 
development  partners,  whose  contributions  have  been 
paramount over the years. We are confident that through 
continued and strengthened collaboration, including in 
connection with securing and protecting peace, we can 
do even more to achieve the transformative Agenda that 
we have.
This  Summit  of  ours  once  again  affords  us  the 
chance  to  pledge  our  commitment  to  humankind.  Let 
this be the occasion from which will emerge a collective 
resolve to embark on a genuine journey of building a 
safer and prosperous world where no one is left behind.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia for his 
statement.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Bhutan.
Lyonchoen Tshering Tobgay, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Bhutan, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Tobgay  (Bhutan):  The  United  Nations  is 
70  years  old.  For  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
maintained  global  peace,  protected  human  rights  and 
upheld international law. It has helped to stop the use and 
spread of nuclear weapons and prevented a third world 
war.  For  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has  reaffirmed 
the  sovereignty  of  nations,  bringing  into  its  fold  new 
Member  States,  irrespective  of  their  size,  population, 
wealth or power. This is especially important — in fact, 
it is critical — for otherwise small, vulnerable countries 
like mine, Bhutan.
For  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has  led  the 
global  fight  against  poverty,  disease  and  hunger.  As 
we  conclude  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  our 
peoples are now healthier, they live longer, and they are 
better educated.
Today, the United Nations is poised to do more. We 
have set ourselves an ambitious Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  one  that  calls  for  collective  action  to 
eradicate  poverty,  reduce  inequalities  and  save  our 
planet.
The  vision  and  principles  set  out  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development resonate strongly 
with  my  country’s  own  development  philosophy  of 
gross national happiness. As early as the 1970s, we in 
Bhutan stressed that gross national happiness is more 
important than gross national product.
Gross  national  happiness  is  a  holistic  approach 
to  development  aimed  at  improving  the  happiness 
and  well-being  of  our  people.  For  that,  we  carefully 
balance material growth with social inclusiveness and 
environmental sustainability, all within a framework of 
good governance.
Gross  national  happiness  drives  development  in 
Bhutan.  Our  people,  for  example,  enjoy  free  health 
care  and  free  education,  even  though  we  are  a  poor 
country. And our economy is still largely clean, green 
and renewable.
But  more  importantly,  six  years  ago,  in  2009, 
we  pledged  to  remain  carbon-neutral.  In  fact,  we  are 
carbon-negative.  That  is  because  72  per  cent  of  our 
country  is  under  forest  cover,  and  more  than  half 
of  my  country  is  protected  as  national  parks  and 
wildlife  sanctuaries.  And,  most  importantly,  we  have 
institutionalized  good  governance  by  embracing 
democracy.
15-29223
15/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
Democracy  in  Bhutan  is  unique  in  that  we,  the 
people, did not want democracy; we did not demand it, 
and we certainly did not fight for it. Instead, democracy 
was  instituted  in  an  unprecedented  manner.  It  was 
imposed  by  our  King,  against  the  will  of  his  people. 
This,  in  my  humble  view,  is  gross  national  happiness 
in action.
His  Majesty  the  King  has  called  gross  national 
happiness  “development  with  values”.  This,  in  effect, 
is  what  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
are  about:  development  with  values.  My  Government 
has  already  started  integrating  the  SDGs  in  our  own 
development  plans,  and  we  look  forward  to  working 
diligently to fulfil their promise.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
an exciting testament to the collective will and wisdom 
of  all  nations  to  transform  our  world  meaningfully. 
But  to  transform  our  world,  we  must  first  transform 
ourselves;  we  must  transform  the  United  Nations; 
we  must  transform  it  to  make  it  fit  for  purpose,  to 
implement the SDGs.
The United Nations has served us well for 70 years.
To  serve  us  for  the  next  70  years,  it  must  stay 
relevant.  And  to  stay  relevant,  it  must  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of today. Countries such as India, 
Japan,  Brazil  and  Germany  must  be  made  to  serve 
as  permanent  members  in  the  Security  Council,  and 
Africa must be appropriately represented.
If  we  do  not  reform  the  United  Nations,  we  risk 
making this sacred institution irrelevant and ineffective. 
That  would  harm  all  nations.  But  small  countries, 
vulnerable countries, countries such as mine and many 
others, would suffer the most.
Now, if we reform the United Nations, if we make 
it relevant and if we make it effective, it will continue 
to  serve  us  well.  And  70  years  hence,  our  future 
generations will gather here, in this very Hall, and they, 
like  us,  will  celebrate  the  United  Nations  for  having 
made their world more secure, more peaceful and more 
prosperous.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Bhutan for his statement.
Lyonchoen Tshering Tobgay, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Bhutan, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Prakash, 
Man  Singh,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal.
Mr.  Man  Singh  (Nepal):  I  bring  with  me  the 
warmest  greetings  to  all  present  from  the  people  and 
the  Government  of  Nepal.  This  morning  we  adopted 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1). The Agenda is both universal in scope 
and  transformative  in  nature.  With  people,  planet, 
prosperity, peace and partnership at its foundation, the 
Agenda manifests our collective pledge concerning the 
world’s sustainable development for the next 15 years.
However,  if  we  look  at  the  past,  it  tells  us  that 
adoption is not enough. Implementation remains a huge 
challenge and will demand huge resources. It will also 
require good national policies, priorities and capacities 
as  well  as  robust  global  partnerships  to  realize  those 
Goals  in  all  dimensions  of  sustainable  development. 
Most important, for any development to be sustainable, 
my  delegation  believes  that  people  have  to  be  at  the 
centre  of  governance  and  have  a  sense  of  ownership 
in  the  development  process.  It  is  the  responsibility  of 
all  of  us  to  develop  a  system  that  makes  people  feel 
that  they  are  an  integral  part  of  the  process  in  all 
socioeconomic  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
sustainable  development.  We  are  confident  that,  with 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a national 
focus, we will be able to observe significant progress in 
our goals of peace and prosperity in the days ahead.
Development  and  democracy  are  complementary 
concepts  and  preconditions  that  go  together.  It  is 
our  firm  belief  that  democracy  is  indispensable  for 
sustainable  development.  That  approach  alone  will 
orient to implementation ensure that the concerns and 
aspirations of the poorest and most vulnerable people 
of the world will be duly addressed and that no one is 
left behind.
It  is  against  that  background  that  Nepal  expects 
enhanced  and  revitalized  international  support  as 
conceived  in  the  Agenda.  Furthermore,  even  though 
undergoing reconstruction and rehabilitation work in the 
aftermath of the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal 
early this year, such international support must address, 
among  other  things,  the  need  for  capacity-building, 
disaster risk-reduction and national resilience-building. 
Besides  official  development  assistance,  debt  relief 
and  additional  financial  resources,  we  also  expect 
16/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
support  measures  such  as  trade  concessions,  transfer 
of  technology,  special  economic  packages,  including 
foreign  direct  investment,  in  an  adequate,  consistent 
and  coherent  manner.  That  is  even  more  necessary 
for  least  developed  and  landlocked  countries  like 
Nepal,  which  are  economically  vulnerable  and  prone 
to  disasters.  Experience  in  the  field  of  international 
development  operations  suggest  that  there  exists  a 
gap between commitments and delivery. That is not a 
good  indicator.  We  must  therefore  devise  a  monetary 
mechanism to ensure that commitments are translated 
into actions and actions into results in an effective and 
time-bound manner.
The  United  Nations  has  been  instrumental  in 
setting  the  stage  for  the  deliberations  and  adoption 
of  this  people-centred  transformative  Agenda.  We 
sincerely hope we will be as proud of our achievements 
when we assess progress on the implementation of the 
Agenda after 15 years.
and 
participatory 
Before I conclude, let me share with this Summit 
meeting  that,  in  the  past  week,  Nepal  promulgated 
an  inclusive  democratic  Constitution  written  by  the 
people’s  elected  representatives  in  the  Constituent 
Assembly. The promulgation of the Constitution was the 
culmination of nine years of dialogue and negotiations 
among  parties  with  extremely  opposed  views  and  a 
transformation  of  the  decades  of  armed  conflict  into 
the  peace  process  preceding  it.  The  Constitution 
is  a  historic  achievement  for  the  people  of  Nepal. 
The  Constitution-making  process  was  democratic, 
inclusive, 
transparent.  The 
Constitution  institutionalizes  the  federal  democratic 
republican  governance  system.  It  firmly  invests  in 
its  rights-based  approach  to  development  and  seeks 
to  fulfil  the  aspirations  for  sustainable  peace,  good 
governance,  development  and  prosperity  within  an 
overall framework of democratic policy. We sincerely 
thank  our  neighbours,  India  and  China,  and  all  those 
Member  States  and  international  organizations  that 
supported us in the process of historic transformation.
The Acting President: I now call on Ms. Netumbo 
Nandi-Ndaitwah, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for International Relations and Cooperation of Namibia.
Ms.  Nandi-Ndaitwah  (Namibia):  I  am  delivering 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hage 
Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia. At the 
outset, I would like to express sincere appreciation and 
thanks to the President of the General Assembly for his 
able  leadership  and  excellent  stewardship  in  hosting 
this United Nations Summit for the adoption of the post-
2015 development agenda. I also commend the previous 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-ninth 
session for having successfully steered the negotiation 
process for the post-2015 development agenda.
There is an adage: “When you lose hope, you lose 
everything”.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  gave  hope  to  millions  of  people  living  in 
poverty. For Namibia, being one of the countries that 
championed the launch of the Millennium Development 
Goals process, the significance of the MDGs cannot be 
overemphasized,  as  ample  evidence  exists  to  attest  to 
their  tangible  impact.  Therefore,  poverty  eradication 
must  remain  the  central  and  overarching  objective  of 
the post-2015 development agenda in order to continue 
to transform the lives of the majority of people living in 
absolute poverty and to reinforce the commitments of 
the international community to eradicate poverty in all 
its forms by 2030.
It  is  Namibia’s  strong  belief  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  is  a  historic  opportunity  to 
eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  lead  us  to  a  world  of 
prosperity, sustainability, equity and dignity for all. The 
Agenda is also a major transformational shift that puts 
sustainable development at the core of the development 
agenda,  thereby  transforming  economies  to  drive 
inclusive  growth,  to  build  accountable  institutions,  to 
ensure good governance and peaceful societies and to 
forge  a  new  global  partnership  based  on  cooperation, 
equity and human rights.
Namibia  has  declared  war  on  poverty.  Therefore, 
the  global  recognition  that  the  eradication  of  poverty 
is  the  greatest  challenge  facing  humankind  must  be 
effectively  addressed,  and  the  post-2015  development 
agenda must deliver on that noble promise. Achieving 
an ambitious post-2015 development agenda, including 
all  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  will 
require  an  equally  ambitious,  comprehensive,  holistic 
and transformative approach with respect to the means 
of  implementation.  This  should  be  supported  by 
effective, accountable and inclusive institutions, sound 
policies and effective governance at all levels.
In this regard, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda we 
adopted  in  July  2015  should  anchor,  reinvigorate  and 
strengthen  financing  for  development,  identify  the 
obstacles encountered for the achievement of the goals 
and the action needed to overcome those constraints as 
15-29223
17/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
well as the support required to implement the post-2015 
development agenda.
posterity. Namibia commits itself to the implementation 
of the post-2015 development agenda.
As  a  member  of  the  African  Union,  Namibia  is 
convinced  that  the  implementation  of  the  African 
Union’s Agenda 2063 will complement the realization 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Additional 
financial 
investment, 
official development assistance and public and private 
financing  remain  important  sources  of  financing  for 
poverty eradication and development.
foreign  direct 
resources, 
In 
this  regard,  as  we  call  upon  developed 
countries to meet and scale up their existing bilateral 
and  multilateral  official  development  assistance 
commitments  to  assist  developing  countries,  we  also 
call  for  favourable  financing  terms  as  well  as  a  true 
global partnership in terms of trade and investment, as 
we believe this will enable us to meet the SDGs as set out 
in the post-2015 development agenda. Climate change 
is  a  global  problem  and  requires  a  global  response 
from  all  of  us  in  both  the  developed  and  developing 
countries. Africa has been singled out as being the most 
vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change. As 
one of the driest countries on Earth, Namibia, like some 
developing countries, faces the immense challenges of 
drought,  land  degradation  and  desertification.  Hence 
we welcome targets 13 and 15.
Later  this  year,  in  December,  we  will  convene  in 
Paris for the twenty-first session of the Conference of 
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change to adopt a legally binding agreement 
that  will  give  us  hope  with  respect  to  our  aspirations 
to address the challenges posed by climate change, for 
this generation and those to come.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  about 
inclusion  and  not  exclusion.  The  same  principles  are 
embodied  in  the  SDGs.  Therefore,  the  international 
community has an obligation to ensure that the people 
of  both  Palestine  and  Western  Sahara  realize  their 
inalienable right to self-determination and the creation 
of their independent and sovereign State.
Let  me  conclude  by  stating  that  the  time  to 
demonstrate the necessary political will and leadership 
to  holistically  implement  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  is  now.  Everyone  must  be  included,  including 
women and young people. It is our duty as leaders to 
do  the  right  thing  and  address  the  issue  of  poverty 
eradication in order to ensure that no one is left behind. 
This is the best legacy we can collectively bequeath to 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Joël 
Morgan, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Transport of 
the Republic of Seychelles.
Mr.  Morgan  (Seychelles):  I  am  addressing  the 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  President  James  Alix  Michel, 
President of the Republic of Seychelles.
In September 2000, Seychelles, along with 189 other 
States Members of the United Nations, endorsed, at the 
United  Nations  Summit,  the  Millennium  Declaration, 
which  included  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). Today we can say that a lot of changes have 
taken place at the global, regional and national levels 
during  these  past  15  years.  However,  as  we  come  to 
the end of this 15-year process, it is important to note 
that  there  are  still  huge  disparities  across  and  within 
countries.
The  MDGs  have  saved  the  lives  of  millions  and 
improved  conditions  for  many  more.  The  work  is  not 
complete, and it must continue in this new development 
era. Seychelles takes pride in having achieved almost 
all of the MDGs; some were achieved even before the 
process  was  launched.  For  example,  in  education  and 
health,  Seychelles  had  already  had  near  100  per  cent 
enrolment  of  both  boys  and  girls  in  primary  schools. 
Women giving birth were assured of the best possible 
care and of the attention of trained medical personnel. 
Child mortality rates were already low compared with 
many  other  countries  with  similar  per  capita  gross 
domestic  product.  Environmental  protection  was 
already a flagship cause for Seychelles. Despite these 
achievements, my country continues to inspire greater 
impetus to ensure that the few challenges of the MDGs 
that remain unaccomplished are fully met.
Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
and 169 associated targets, which are incorporated and 
indivisible, have been announced today. World leaders 
have never before pledged common action and ventured 
across such an expansive and universal policy agenda. 
Reflecting  on  the  MDGs  and  looking  further  to  the 
next 15 years, there should be no issue that we cannot 
deliver on given our mutual responsibility to put an end 
to poverty, leave no one behind and generate a world of 
human dignity for everyone.
We believe that the post-2015 development agenda 
must  continue  to  put  greater  emphasis  on  the  fight 
18/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
against climate change and poverty and on education, 
including  early  childhood  development  and  higher 
education,  as  well  as  a  strong  emphasis  on  gender 
equality  as  tools  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
and  strengthen  international  support  for  small  island 
developing States (SIDS).
Seychelles  continues 
The more widely the SDGs, a to-do list for people 
and the planet, are understood by everyone, the more 
politicians  will  take  them  seriously  and  the  more 
Governments will finance them properly, refer to them 
frequently and make them work. It is the most important 
long-term plan we have for our survival.
to  develop 
its  national 
strategic  documents,  which  we  hope,  as  we  aim  to 
achieve  the  SDGs,  will  provide  policies  for  superior 
community  commitment  in  building  the  future  of 
the  Seychelles  we  ought  to  have.  We  have  this  year 
extended the level of education from 10 to 11 years of 
compulsory  studies.  The  year  2015  was  an  important 
one in achieving agreement on diverse key development 
issues,  from  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  to  the 
forthcoming  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held in Paris.
Seychelles 
supports 
the  outcome  document 
transforming  our  world, 
the  2030  Agenda 
for 
Sustainable Development. I wish to highlight Goal 14, 
“Conserve  and  sustainably  use  the  oceans,  seas  and 
marine  resources  for  sustainable  development”.  For 
SIDS,  our  smallness  and  our  seclusion  are  structural 
elements  of  our  vulnerability.  Ever-increasing  threats 
surround our oceans, and the failure to call for control 
of these threats increases this vulnerability. With 75 per 
cent  of  our  planet  made  up  by  the  oceans,  the  weak 
global  governance  of  our  oceanic  spaces  undermines 
our overall security. We are all vulnerable.
Seychelles,  like  many  SIDS,  has  not  agreed  to 
simply be an onlooker with respect to these issues. We 
are  adopting  the  perspective  of  being  a  large  oceanic 
nation.  We  are  aiming  to  better  manage  our  oceans, 
setting  an  example  of  good  oceanic  governance. 
Like  many  other  island  nations,  Seychelles  claims  a 
vast  exclusive  economic  zone  of  1.3  million  square 
kilometres,  the  second-largest  in  Africa.  The  country 
has  reaped  considerable  benefits  from  its  ocean 
resources, with the development of fisheries, tourism, 
trade,  and  international  and  domestic  shipping  to 
support trade.
At the same time, it has established itself as a global 
leader  in  marine  conservation,  with  the  Government 
having time and again maintained that healthy oceans 
and seas are vital to a sustainable future for the whole 
planet and not just for small island developing States. 
Undeniably,  over  the  past  few  years,  the  emerging 
concept  of  the  “blue  economy”  has  been  adopted  by 
many  SIDS  as  a  method  for  realizing  sustainable 
growth based on an ocean economy. 
Seychelles calls for the enhancing of the capacity of 
developing nations to sustainably harness the potential 
of  oceanic  spaces.  With  the  support  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates, Seychelles held its first blue economy 
conference  in  January  2014,  organized  as  part  of  the 
Abu  Dhabi  Sustainability  Week.  The  conference  was 
a success, as it enabled the global community to share 
its  views  and  objectives  for  the  future  in  relation  to 
the “blue economy” concept, and it established a solid 
partnership  with  a  view  to  mobilizing  more  research 
into  ocean-based  economic  activity  compatible  with 
the sustainable development of our planet. The success 
of  this  first  conference  led  to  the  pledge  made  at  the 
twenty-second ordinary session of Heads of States and 
Governments  of  the  African  Union  to  embrace  and 
expand the blue economy concept as an essential part of 
Africa’s future development and expansion, as outlined 
in the AU’s Agenda 2063: The Africa we want.
Seychelles  is  planning  to  host  a  second  blue 
economy  summit  in  January  2016,  with  the  support 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  during  the  Abu  Dhabi 
Sustainability Week. The summit is perfectly timed to 
build  upon  the  outcomes  of  this  Summit  to  adopt  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in Paris later this year, 
and will conclude with a declaration in support of the 
implementation  of  the  blue  economy  concept  through 
an  enrichment  of  relevant  national  and  international 
initiatives  for  concrete  deliverables.  Seychelles  will 
continue  to  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  blue 
economy  as  part  of  the  efforts  to  develop  a  “green 
economy”  to  better  harness  our  natural  resources  for 
sustainable development, for combating climate change 
and for growth and food security.
The  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
targets, which will come into effect on 1 January 2016, 
will  channel  the  decisions  that  we  take  over  the  next 
15  years.  All  of  us  will  work  to  put  the  Agenda  into 
operation within our own countries and at the regional 
15-29223
19/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
and global levels, taking into account different national 
realities,  capacities  and  levels  of  development  and 
while  respecting  our  national  policies  and  priorities. 
They  are  universal  goals  and  targets  that  engage  the 
whole world, developed and developing countries alike. 
No one should be left behind.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Ms.  Faeqa 
bint  Saeed  Al  Saleh,  Minister  of  Social  Development 
of Bahrain.
the  establishment  of 
This  Summit  coincides  with 
Ms.  Al  Saleh  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
am  pleased  to  transmit  to  the  General  Assembly 
the  greetings  of  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa 
Al  Khalifa,  King  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  who 
entrusted  me  with  the  honour  of  representing  him  at 
this Summit. He wishes the participants every success. 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of 
the  United 
Nations.  The  founding  Member  States  undertook 
not  to  allow  another  world  war  to  emerge,  pursuant 
to  the  commitments  entered  into  seven  decades  ago 
when the Charter of the United Nations was adopted. 
This by itself underscores the importance of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
because it is a collective agreement that will permit our 
countries to rise to a higher level of development and 
prosperity, which can only be achieved if the obstacles 
that prevent us from achieving our goals are overcome 
and taking into consideration the cultural and religious 
specificities of every society. We can therefore say that 
the Agenda, with its 17 Goals, allows us an opportunity 
to  design  a  joint  action  plan  that  gives  us  clear  and 
tangible mechanisms for development while protecting 
our special human achievements. 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  was  able  to  implement 
most  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which 
were  set  forth  in  the  year  2000,  particularly  in  the 
fields  of  education,  health,  child  welfare,  poverty 
elimination,  ending  illiteracy,  promoting  the  role  of 
women, enhancing the role of youth, supporting gender 
equality  and  promoting  respect  for  human  rights.  To 
those  ends,  the  comprehensive  development  strategy 
that was pursued by His Majesty King Hamad bin Issa 
Al  Khalifa  played  a  fundamental  role  in  contributing 
to  the  success  of  the  work  of  the  Government  of  His 
Royal Highness Prince Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain. The Prime 
Minister received the International Telecommunication 
Union’s  Sustainable  Development  Award  for  2015, 
confirms 
the 
international 
which 
community’s 
appreciation for the efforts exerted by the Kingdom of 
Bahrain and its achievements in the field of sustainable 
development.  It  also  signifies  the  forward-looking 
vision of our Government. 
Our vision has already been covered in the United 
Nations  reports  on  human  development  over  the  past 
few  years,  the  most  recent  of  which  made  special 
mention of the Kingdom of Bahrain’s achievements in 
the field of human development. My country continues 
to  promote  events  and  programmes  to  guarantee  the 
implementation  of  the  post-2015  development  goals 
in  their  three  dimensions  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental  —  in  accordance  with  the  Kingdom’s 
strategy. 
To  promote  these  objectives,  my  country  decided 
to host a ministerial conference on the implementation 
of  the  post-2015  strategic  development  agenda  under 
the auspices of Prince Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa, 
Bahrain’s  Prime  Minister,  on  6  and  7  December 
2015.  This  conference  is  part  of  the  efforts  made  by 
the  Kingdom  to  host  many  regional  and  international 
conferences  and  meetings  to  promote  sustainable 
development. The Kingdom of Bahrain would therefore 
be  among  the  first  countries  of  the  world  to  host  a 
follow-up conference on the implementation of the post-
2015 development agenda as adopted in our meeting. 
We are all aware of the grave challenges that we are 
facing  today.  We  note  that  we  must  stand  together  to 
be more determined and willing to overcome obstacles 
without  hesitation  or  slacking.  This  meeting  is  proof 
of  our  determination  to  use  our  collective  will  to 
give  an  impetus  to  our  efforts  bring  about  a  brighter 
common future through comprehensive and sustainable 
development for all.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Erlan 
Abdyldayev, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Kyrgyzstan.
Mr. Abyldayev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): It 
is a great pleasure to participate in this historic United 
Nations Summit. 
Today we adopted a long-term development agenda 
for  the  international  community  (resolution  70/1), 
which, to a great extent, will condition the preservation 
of our planet and ensure a good life for all human beings. 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  fully  supports  this  ambitious 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  It  is 
essential that the principles of general but differentiated 
20/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
responsibility,  accountability  and 
transparency  be 
an  integral  part  of  our  renewed  Agenda;  they  will 
undoubtedly help to achieve its goals.
Kyrgyzstan  commends  the  fact  that  our  new 
development  Agenda  specifically  addresses  the  needs 
of  highly  vulnerable  countries.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome the inclusion in the Agenda of the challenges 
currently facing mountainous countries and landlocked 
developing States, both categories to which Kyrgyzstan 
belongs.  It  is  essential  to  note,  however,  that  the 
prospects  for  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  in  least-developed  and  developing  countries 
will  also  depend  on  solving  the  problem  of  ensuring 
adequate international financing. The Kyrgyz Republic 
hopes that the commitments made by the international 
community today and at the Addis Ababa Conference 
on Financing for Development will be met in full so that 
we can achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 
2030. At the same time, we agree that least-developed 
and developing countries should increase the financing 
for their national programmes through the efficient use 
of their internal resources.
It is very important to ensure that our development 
Agenda is based on the experience gained through the 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
while also possessing the key qualities of universality, 
inclusiveness and accessibility. While there can be no 
doubt  that  the  international  community’s  chief  task 
should  continue  to  be  fighting  hunger  and  poverty, 
attaining  those  goals  requires  new  and  inclusive 
approaches.  We  support  a  comprehensive  approach 
to  addressing  poverty  issues  and  combating  hunger 
through  education,  health  care,  gender  equality,  the 
rule  of  law,  economic  development  and  combating 
climate change. We can achieve effective results only 
by  ensuring  a  good  balance  of  all  three  aspects  of 
sustainable  development.  And  we  call  on  the  States 
Members of the United Nations to demonstrate political 
will and arrive at a legally binding agreement on climate 
change  in  December  at  the  Paris  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, which can lay the foundations of a 
more responsible attitude to the world around us.
We are ready to use the experience we have gained 
and to mobilize all our available resources and capacities 
in  order  to  implement  our  new  Agenda.  The  Kyrgyz 
Republic  adopted  a  national  strategy  for  sustainable 
development as long ago as 2013. The programme puts 
social justice and the people’s welfare at centre stage, 
along  with  protecting  citizens’  rights,  freedoms  and 
security,  building  a  peaceful  and  lawful  State  with  a 
high level of education and, most important, preserving 
the environment.
Factors  of  physical  geography  and  climate  limit 
our  country’s  ability  to  reduce  poverty  reduction  and 
increase  sustainable  development.  In  Kyrgyzstan’s 
mountainous  areas,  poverty  rates  are  above  average, 
owing to difficult living conditions and high economic 
costs.  Mountains,  whose  ecosystems  are  sensitive  to 
climate change, make up more than 70 per cent of our 
territory.  We  are  already  seeing  our  glacial  reserves 
shrink,  and  experts  have  predicted  that  Kyrgyzstan’s 
glaciers could be reduced by 40 per cent by 2025. That 
would  reduce  the  volume  of  water  in  Central  Asia’s 
rivers  by  a  third.  In  that  connection,  one  significant 
factor  for  sustainable  development  in  Kyrgyzstan  and 
Central Asia is water, the shortage of which is growing 
faster than was expected around the world. Today water 
has an economic dimension as well as a humanitarian 
and  environmental  one.  In  that  regard,  Kyrgyzstan 
supports the cost-effective use of water resources.
The development of hydro-electric power as a branch 
of  the  “green  economy”  is  an  essential  prerequisite 
for  sustainable  development.  Kyrgyzstan’s  principled 
position  is  that  water  resources  and  hydropower  are 
indissolubly  and  inseparably  linked  to  each  other,  a 
position that fully accords with the Secretary-General’s 
initiative  in  declaring  2014-2024  the  United  Nations 
Decade of Sustainable Energy for All.
We  would  particularly  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance of creating and maintaining an environment 
conducive to States’ sustainable development. Based on 
its regional experience, the Kyrgyz Republic is of the 
view that every State has the right to determine its own 
development. We consider that to be an integral right 
that cannot be limited by anyone or anything in any way. 
We  firmly  believe  that  the  issue  of  guaranteeing  that 
right is just as immediate for the majority of developing 
and  least-developed  countries  all  over  the  world.  It  is 
particularly relevant to to landlocked and small island 
States, the countries most vulnerable to climate change, 
as well as those with large debts and few possibilities 
for eradicating poverty.
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  believes  that  respect  for 
and guarantees of a State’s right to develop over time 
should  form  the  basis  of  building  fair  international 
relations at the global level, along with such principles 
15-29223
21/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
as  respect  for  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty, 
non-interference in internal affairs and refraining from 
the use of force. In that regard, Kyrgyzstan considers it 
extremely important to promote the concept of a State’s 
right to development and the gradual strengthening of 
international  partnerships  for  Member  States  to  that 
end.
In conclusion, I call on all States Members of the 
United Nations to unite their efforts to ensure that the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that we have 
adopted  today  (resolution  70/1)  accords  as  closely  as 
possible with the slogan “No one must be left behind”. 
For  my  part,  I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly 
that  my  country  will  make  every  effort  to  realize  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  within  its  financial 
capabilities and taking into account its specific national 
development needs.
The Acting President: I now call on Ms. Aïchatou 
Boulama  Kané,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Cooperation, African Integration and Nigeriens Abroad 
of the Republic of the Niger.
Ms.  Boulama  Kané  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would  first  like  to  convey  warm  greetings  from  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mahamadou  Issoufou,  President  and 
Head of State of the Republic of the Niger, who wishes 
the Summit every success. On behalf of the delegation 
of  the  Niger,  I  would  like  to  assure  the  co-Chairs  of 
our  full  support  for  and  willingness  to  participate  in 
their work in fulfilling their mission. I would also like 
to pay well-deserved tribute to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  leadership  and  commitment  to  the 
implementation  process  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda that is the subject of this Summit.
As  the  Assembly  knows,  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration of 2000 the world’s leaders identified the 
eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), with the 
overall objective of making a substantial contribution to 
reducing poverty and hunger and promoting economic 
and  social  development 
in  developing  countries. 
The  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
adopted  today  at  our  Summit  (resolution  70/1)  is  not 
only timely but, while taking into account the areas of 
the MDGs that remain incomplete, it is also broader and 
more comprehensive. And it is universal. In addition, it 
will promote sustainable development in an integrated 
manner  by  providing  balanced  emphasis  on  its  three 
dimensions — the economic, social and environmental.
The adoption of this programme by all the world’s 
nations  is,  in  our  eyes,  a  major  commitment  to  our 
planet.  We  see  in  it  the  expression  of  a  voluntarily 
accepted solidarity and sharing designed to ensure the 
survival of all. It must be emphasized that it is not just 
a question of solidarity of the rich towards the poor; it 
is also a matter of mutual solidarity and shared values, 
and  in  that  regard  poor  nations  also  have  much  to 
contribute.
My country, the Niger, in the middle of the Sahelo-
Saharan  strip,  is  facing  every  kind  of  development 
challenge,  to  which  there  has  been  added  in  recent 
years and an acute security challenge. The Niger recalls 
the  2013  visit  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations  to  Niamey  to  promote  the  United  Nations 
Integrated  Strategy  for  the  Sahel  at  a  crucial  point  in 
its  history,  where  the  dynamics  of  development  were 
being thwarted by a combination of security issues and 
persistent  climate  shocks,  against  the  backdrop  of  a 
demographic challenge.
Despite  this  unfavourable  environment,  as  part 
of  our  implementation  efforts  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  we  have  shown  significant 
progress, particularly in the areas of reducing poverty 
and  hunger,  education,  including  primary  education, 
health,  particularly  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS, 
and infant mortality reduction, with the related MDG 
having been achieved. However, we are fully aware of 
the efforts that remain for us to do. For that reason, we 
wholly subscribe to this vast and ambitious sustainable 
development  programme,  which  we  will  strive  to 
integrate  into  our  development  strategy  while  taking 
into account our national realities and priorities.
Transforming  our  world  in  15  years  through 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  169  targets  is 
admittedly  ambitious  and  difficult  in  the  light  of  the 
many  economic,  social  and  cultural  constraints  that 
we face, but all of us, together — all nations — have 
to  commit  ourselves  with  resolve.  For  their  part,  the 
people of the Niger make that commitment.
Through their commitment, the people of the Niger 
are  expressing  their  willingness  to  continue  to  make 
efforts  towards  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger;  their 
intent  not  to  be  ranked  last  in  the  world  in  terms  of 
human  development  due  to  their  performance  in  the 
areas of education and health; their will to ensure that 
youths of the Niger under 25, who make up more than 
22/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
70 per cent half of the population, have a better future 
with  decent  jobs;  their  will  to  overcome  the  effects 
of  climate  shocks  by  improving  the  ability  to  adapt; 
their  determination  to  continue  their  water  mastery 
programme to make it accessible to all and promote the 
development of agriculture and the raising of livestock; 
their  commitment  to  promote  a  just  and  culturally 
fulfilled  society  in  which  women’s  empowerment  is 
ensured;  their  willingness  to  contribute  to  peace  and 
security  in  the  world  through  the  reaffirmation  of 
their  commitment  to  combat  terrorism;  their  desire 
to  consolidate  democracy  through  strong  democratic 
institutions; and, finally, their determination to continue 
to promote good political and economic governance.
In conclusion, I reiterate the full commitment of the 
Republic of the Niger to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development with the commitment to implementing it 
in a spirit of solidarity and partnership with all nations. 
We  believe  in  this  programme,  we  believe  in  the 
ability of the United Nations to lead it to a successful 
conclusion, and we are proud to be among those whom 
history will remember as having contributed positively 
to the transformation of the world.
The Acting President: I now call upon Mr. Jean-
Claude  Gakosso,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Cooperation of the Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Gakosso  (Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  have  the  great  honour  to  speak  from  this 
rostrum on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Denis Sassou 
Nguesso, President of the Republic of the Congo.
At  a  time  when  world  leaders  endorse  before 
us  an  ambitious  programme,  following  a  process  of 
negotiations  in  which  my  country  was  fully  invested 
alongside other Member States as a member of the Open 
Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals, my 
delegation  can  only  welcome  the  outcome  of  what  it 
sees as a great historic achievement (resolution 70/1).
It was here, in 2000, that we promised to help the 
Organization to adapt to the new era that was opening 
and strengthen its ability to manage the challenges of 
peacekeeping  and  poverty  eradication.  Encouraged 
by  this  promise,  we  then  adopted  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  were  intended  to 
achieve  eight  targets  for  the  fight  against  poverty  by 
the  year  2015.  Today,  at  the  arrival  of  the  deadline, 
it  seems  appropriate  to  take  the  full  measure  of  the 
progress made in achieving the Goals and at the same 
time appreciate our ability to ensure a dignified life for 
our peoples as we had committed to do 15 years ago.
Admittedly,  since  2000,  considerable  progress 
has been made towards achieving these Goals. Global 
poverty continues to decline. More children than ever 
before now attend primary school. The infant mortality 
rate  has  fallen  dramatically.  Access  to  clean  water 
has  been  greatly  expanded.  Targeted  investments  in 
the  fight  against  malaria,  HIV/AIDS  and  tuberculosis 
have  saved  millions  of  lives.  Undeniably,  the  MDGs 
have transformed people’s lives, although, especially in 
Africa,  the  eradication  of  poverty  remains  an  elusive 
goal.
In the Republic of the Congo since 2000, remarkable 
progress  has  been  made  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, even if the road ahead is still long. 
Diverse and varied constraints require more effort from 
us, but our Government applies itself with determination. 
Therefore, to overcome these difficulties in order to go 
beyond the MDGs and meet the challenges of a more 
inclusive sustainable development, we adopted in July 
a  national  strategy  for  sustainable  development  that 
reconciles the demands of economic growth and those 
of social development.
The  evaluation  of  the  MDGs  should  enable  us  to 
grasp  the  full  potential  of  our  Organization  70  years 
after its creation to act and move forward together in 
building a world that meets the aspirations of our States 
and our peoples. We have just adopted a new framework 
for  post-2015  development  —  a  programme  that  we 
wanted  to  be  transformative,  innovative,  universal 
and  centred  on  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development.  However,  the  implementation  of  the 
Agenda  will  require  suitable  and  sufficient  internal 
and  external  financing  that  can  ensure  that  our  lofty 
aspirations are long-lasting. To do so, I believe that we 
must undertake ambitious, robust reforms of the global 
financial  system  by  devising  new  rules  that  would 
allow  States  to  enhance  their  capacity  to  mobilize 
development resources.
This, in our view, is the relevance of the programme 
of  action  emenating  from  the  third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in 
Addis  Ababa  in  July.  We  believe  that  the  Agenda’s 
implementation will be a decisive step towards ensuring 
the  successful  meeting  of  upcoming  deadlines  and 
for  the  future  of  humankind  and  the  legacy  we  must 
bequeath to future generations and posterity.
15-29223
23/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
I would like to express the hope that the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in 
December, will lead to an agreement that breaks new 
ground,  which  will  be  crucial  to  reaching  the  new 
development Goals that we have just adopted.
Our  destinies  are  interconnected,  and  the  bright 
future  we  want  can  be  built  only  if  we  take  action 
together,  if  we  act  on  different  fronts  by  basing  our 
future actions on new paradigms based on sustainable 
development. The success of this transformative Agenda 
depends fully on the political will of our Governments 
and the determination that we must demonstrate in its 
implementation for a more generous world with greater 
solidarity.
The Acting President: I now call on Ms. Niermala 
Badrising, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Suriname.
Ms.  Badrising  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of  the 
President of the Republic of Suriname, His Excellency 
Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  and  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  my  country,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 
Assembly  and  the  international  community  on  the 
convening  of  this  Summit  and  the  adoption  by  world 
leaders of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1).
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Agenda  has  made 
provisions to include unfinished matters in the context 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We 
also  welcome  the  integration  of  the  three  dimensions 
of  sustainable  development  and  its  focus  for  the  next 
15 years on people, planet and prosperity. We endorse 
the targets and the Goals as well as the integral role of 
peace and partnership in this regard.
For  the  past  five  years,  closing  the  inequality 
gaps in my country has become a high priority in the 
social  contract  between  my  President  and  the  people 
of  Suriname.  Suriname  has  therefore  placed  special 
emphasis  on  improving  education,  health  and  its 
social  conditions.  In  this  regard,  primary  education 
is now free of charge for all children in Suriname. In 
addition,  we  are  implementing  a  national  after-school 
programme  with  the  aim  of  enhancing  conditions  for 
better  learning.  We  further  established  a  universal 
medical insurance programme, including the provision 
of  health  insurance,  free  of  charge,  to  senior  citizens 
and children below 16 years of age.
Since  non-communicable  diseases  are  leading 
to  decreased  productivity  and  have  now  become 
the  principal  cause  of  death  in  Suriname  and  in  the 
Caribbean  region,  we  are  developing  policies  and 
programmes  to  fight  these  diseases,  including  by 
promoting  healthy  lifestyles.  In  addition,  legislation 
has  been  adopted  establishing  a  national  minimum 
wage and a national pension floor for all workers.
Despite  all  of  these  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable 
development,  we  cannot  ignore  the  challenges  we 
face  in  realizing  these  objectives,  especially  as  a 
middle-income country. In this regard, we support the 
recognition in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the 
special challenges of middle-income countries.
Climate  change  is  a  major  threat  to  my  country. 
We  are  particularly  vulnerable  to  climate  change 
because  of  our  low-lying  coast,  where  80  per  cent  of 
our  population  resides  and  major  productive  sectors 
operate. Suriname has set an example to the world that 
we can be carbon-negative. My country has maintained 
a forest cover of well over 90 per cent of its total land 
area and a deforestation rate of 0.02 per cent.
Suriname looks forward to a successful outcome of 
the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, to be held in Paris later this year. Our 
commitment and objective is to continue our tradition 
of  protecting  our  environment.  We  are  ready  for 
partnerships, in particular those related to cooperation 
within the context of adaptation and mitigation.
importance 
A  revitalized  global  partnership  for  development 
is  of  paramount 
the  successful 
implementation  of  this  new  Agenda  on  the  ground. 
Suriname  reaffirms  South-South  cooperation  as  an 
important vehicle to advance sustainable development 
and  achieve  greater  unity  and  solidarity  among 
developing countries.
for 
My  Government  supports 
the  people-centred 
approach of the sustainable development agenda, with 
special emphasis on the most vulnerable in society: the 
elderly,  persons  with  disabilities,  indigenous  peoples, 
children,  women  and  youth.  Hence  every  effort 
possible needs to be undertaken to invest in increasing 
their  active  involvement  and  opportunities  in  society, 
including  in  productive  sectors.  In  particular,  gender 
equality and the empowerment of women and girls, as 
well as the elimination of all forms of violence against 
them, should be ensured.
24/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
In  conclusion,  success  and  a  better  world  will 
depend  on  all  of  us,  individually  and  collectively.  As 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  recently  stated:  “We 
cannot have a Plan B, because we do not have a Planet 
B”.
Therefore,  we  have  to  be  bold  and  strong  in  our 
political  and  financial  resolve,  since  failure  is  not  an 
option.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Abdulaziz 
Kamilov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Uzbekistan.
Mr.  Kamilov  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian):  It 
is  with  great  satisfaction  that  I  convey  my  greetings 
to  all  participants.  I  will  briefly  touch  upon  some  of 
the proposals and issues discussed today at the United 
Nations  Summit  for  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
First, allow me to underscore that the Republic of 
Uzbekistan  supports  the  new  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  put  forward  by  the 
Secretary-General for the future of humankind, which 
contains  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
for  the  period  2016-2030.  This  should  become  the 
logical and appropriate continuation of the Millennium 
Development Goals process for 2000 to 2015.
The  Republic  of  Uzbekistan,  according 
to 
international economic and financial bodies, occupies 
fifth  place  globally  among  States  with  rapidly 
developing economies. During the past 10 years, in spite 
of the ongoing global economic crises, gross domestic 
product grew on average by more than 8 per cent. Over 
the years of independent development, that is, the past 
24  years,  our  economy  has  grown  more  than  fivefold 
and the population’s real income ninefold. Average life 
expectancy rose from 67 years to 73 years; for women,  
to  75 years. About 60 per cent of the State budget is 
being  channelled  into  social  development,  including 
into  education;  that  is,  10  per  cent  to  12  per  cent  of 
the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  with  the  share  of 
expense  items  in  State  budget  expenditures  making 
up  35  per  cent.  That  is  particularly  important  if  it  is 
understood that a huge part of our population, 60 per 
cent, is under 30 years of age.
in  health  care 
Large-scale  reforms 
in  2009 
allowed us to achieve, as envisaged by the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  a  one  third  decrease  in  the  child 
mortality  rate,  and  in  2013,  we  achieved  a  one-third 
decrease in maternal mortality. By 2009 we had reduced 
the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS.  Indicators  of  tuberculosis 
sickness  rates  decreased  by  1.6  times  since  the  peak 
level of 2002. By 2013, not a single case of malaria was 
registered in the country.
The measures undertaken in raising environmental 
sustainability  enabled  a  reduction  in  the  volume  of 
pollution  emissions  per  capita  from  95  kilograms  in 
the  year  2000  to  61  kilograms  in  2015.  Over  the  past 
15 years, we were able to reduce the GDP energy usage 
by more than two times our original energy usage.
Conditions  with  regard  to  gender  equality  have 
tangibly changed. About 50 per cent of the total number 
of those engaged in the economy are women. We would 
like to specifically stress that the 2016-2030 programme 
for deepening and reforming education and economic 
structures, as well as expanding private ownership and 
private enterprise, will serve as a strong basis for our 
efforts. Our main target is for our country to join the 
ranks of States with an above average income level by 
2030, according to standard world indicators.
Today,  the  international  community  continues  to 
pay particular attention to the disastrous consequences 
of climate change. Major environmental disasters have 
become  commonplace  for  the  first  time  in  history, 
such as the tragedy of the Aral Sea, which, within the 
span  of  one  generation,  is  on  the  verge  of  complete 
disappearance.  Dramatic  climate  change  was  felt  not 
only  in  Central  Asia,  but  also  in  other  regions.  As  a 
direct consequence of the drying up of the Aral Sea, a 
new saline desert with an area of more than 5.5 million 
hectares  of  land  has  emerged  on  the  exposed  part  of 
the Aral Sea. Sandstorms rage for more than 90 days 
a year, carrying into the atmosphere over 100 million 
tons of dust and toxic salts. The threatening impact of 
the  Aral  Sea  catastrophe  is  now  observed  throughout 
the  world,  according  to  international  experts.  Toxic 
salts  originating  from  the  Aral  region  have  now  been 
discovered  on  the  Arctic  coast,  Greenland’s  glaciers, 
Norway’s forests and many other parts of the Earth.
The  most  serious  impact  has  been  on  the  living 
conditions and the gene pool of more than 65 million 
people 
in  Central  Asia.  The  extremely  adverse 
ecological environment, the lack of and decrease in the 
quality of water and the increase in dangerous diseases 
are  just  a  short  list  of  the  consequences  of  the  Aral 
Sea  tragedy.  Uzbekistan  hopes  that  the  catastrophe 
of  the  Aral  Sea  will  be  taken  into  consideration  in 
implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
We understand that climate change and all the related 
15-29223
25/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
matters being discussed during this Summit will have 
an  immediate  impact  on  the  issue.  In  line  with  the 
words  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  during  his 
trip  to  the  Aral  Sea  in  2010,  that  requires  collective 
responsibility on the part of the entire world, not just 
the countries of Central Asia.
At its sixty-eighth session in 2013, on a proposal by 
Uzbekistan, the General Assembly adopted as an official 
document the programme of measures on eliminating 
the consequences of the drying up of the Aral Sea and 
averting  the  catastrophe  of  the  ecological  systems  in 
the Aral Sea region. Taking into account the universal 
nature of the Aral Sea disaster, it is necessary to expand 
actions and establish specific financial mechanisms in 
that regard. It would be appropriate to establish under 
United Nations auspices a special trust fund on the Aral 
Sea and the Aral Sea region.
The main task would involve coordinating efforts 
and  implementing  specific  programmes  and  projects 
in  the  following  key  areas:  protecting  health  and 
preserving  the  population’s  gene  pool;  elaborating 
a  system  of  effective  stimuli  for  the  socioeconomic 
development of the Aral Sea region; creating conditions 
for ensuring decent living conditions for people living 
in  the  region;  preserving  the  ecological  balance  of 
the  Aral  Sea  region;  adopting  consistent  measures 
to  fight  desertification  and  introducing  a  reasonable 
water  consumption  policy;  recovering  and  preserving 
the  unique  biodiversity  of  flora  and  fauna,  which 
remains  on  the  brink  of  extinction;  and  using  limited 
water  resources  in  the  region,  first  and  foremost  the 
transboundary  river  arteries  —  the  Amu  Darya  and 
Syr  Darya  —  in  the  interests  of  all  the  countries  of 
the region and in strict compliance with the norms of 
international law.
As  a  result  of  the  implementation  of  construction 
plans for gigantic dams and large hydropower stations 
on the tributaries of those rivers, on whose waters the 
lives of millions of people depend, we must prevent the 
disruption of the natural flow of the rivers, worsening 
the supply in the lower areas. Such an occurrence would 
lead to a radical breach of the water and environmental 
balance and exacerbate the problem of the Aral Sea and 
the underlying ecological security of the region.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
in 
Mr.  Elrington  (Belize):  Today  marks  another 
historic  milestone 
the  United  Nations  global 
development journey. The identification and pursuit of 
the Millennium Development Goals were the defining 
first  leg  of  that  journey.  Those  goals  galvanized 
international solidarity in an unprecedented fashion and 
laid the foundation for international cooperation on an 
internationally agreed development agenda. The newly 
adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  which  consists  of  17  Goals  and  169 
targets,  requires  that  development  policies  integrate 
economic,  social  and  environmental  considerations. 
Belize  is  irrevocably  committed  to  embrace  this 
Agenda. 
As a natural resource- and people-based economy, 
Belize  has  long  pursued  a  holistic,  socially  and 
environmentally  sensitive  development  agenda.  We 
have developed a national strategy that fully integrates 
the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and their targets, 
and  our  Cabinet  has  adopted  a  national  growth  and 
sustainable  development  strategy  that  was  developed 
with  the  invaluable  support  of  the  Department  of 
Economic  and  Social  Affairs.  The  strategy  brings 
together our national development framework, Horizon 
2030, and the 2030 Agenda. It speaks to an ambitious 
vision for our own human ecology, namely, to live in 
peace  and  tranquillity  and  in  harmony  with  nature, 
while enjoying a high quality of life and being enabled 
to look after our own development in a sustainable way. 
We  intend  to  operationalize  that  vision  through  four 
rubrics  of  development  —  one,  optimizing  national 
income and investment; two, enhancing social cohesion 
and  resilience;  three,  sustainably  managing  natural, 
environmental, historical and cultural assets; and, four, 
improving governance and citizen security. Collectively 
and in cooperation with our development partners, we 
will seek to realize that vision.
We  know  that  the  task  ahead  is  a  daunting  one. 
Limited  human  and  financial  resources  are  enduring 
challenges  for  my  small  country.  Small  in  size  and 
hard-pressed  to  deal  with  multiple  exogenous  shocks 
and  diminutive  fiscal  space,  Belize,  like  many  other 
small developing countries, is stretched.
imposed  by 
We repeat our concern that the graduation criteria 
unilaterally 
financial 
institutions  upon  countries  like  my  own  make  it 
difficult  for  us  to  access  grant-based  and  other 
concessional  financing  internationally.  This  situation 
obtains even though our small country is on the front 
international 
26/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
line of confronting the prohibitively expensive adverse 
impacts of climate change, which contribute greatly to 
increased burdens to our domestic coffers in the form of 
high ratios of external debt to gross domestic product. 
This  is  a  blight  that  severely  afflicts  all  Caribbean 
nations.
We are at a crossroads in our development exercise. 
At  this  juncture,  let  us  choose  the  right  path  —  the 
sustainable and resilient path. We must safeguard Mother 
Earth. Let us do so with social and economic justice on 
our side and solidarity in our stride. Today and onward, 
there is no turning back.
Recalling the small island developing States (SIDS) 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway, 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  the  revitalized 
global partnership entrenched in this new 2030 Agenda, 
Belize is moved to call for better policies to facilitate 
enhanced  access  to  international  public  sources  of 
financing,  especially  grants  and  highly  concessional 
loans,  for  small 
island  developing  States;  better 
multilateral  trade  policies  to  ensure  improved  market 
access  for  small  vulnerable  economies;  and  more 
inclusive  governance  structures  at  the  international 
level  to  ensure  that  the  concerns  of  small  developing 
states with middle-income status are taken into account 
when setting and executing policies.
Our situation is further prejudiced when some of our 
partners  from  developed  countries  unilaterally  utilize 
domestic  measures  to  assess  or  rate  our  countries, 
subjecting  us  to  blacklists  absent  any  form  of  due 
process.  These  measures  have  perpetuated  what  can 
only be called an international disabling environment 
for our small middle-income countries and our equally 
small enterprises.
Belize reaffirms the call in the SAMOA Pathway for 
genuine and durable partnerships. The most beneficial 
to  us  are  those  that  put  our  people’s  priorities  first. 
We  continue  to  deepen  our  partnerships  globally.  We 
firmly believe that they are essential for the successful 
implementation of our 2030 Agenda.
and 
partnerships 
can 
to 
While 
improvements 
the  wider  enabling 
environments 
catalyse 
transformation  in  our  economies,  we  know  that  no 
such  transformation  can  be  sustained  in  the  face  of 
the  dangerous,  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change.  In 
the case of SIDS, a simple storm can erase decades of 
development and erode the very land that sustains us. 
Ours may very well be the last generation that is seized 
of the opportunity and capacity to save the planet from 
the cataclysmic effects of climate change. Let us seize 
the moment. The Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
to be held in Paris must deliver a robust outcome that 
entrenches  the  highest  ambition  to  address  climate 
change.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
Mr.  Tshibanda  N’tungamulongo  (Democratic 
Republic of the Congo) (spoke in French): It is a privilege 
and honour for me to take the floor before the General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph 
Kabila Kabange, President of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo. 
With  the  holding  of  this  Summit  devoted  to  the 
adoption  of  the  post-2015  sustainable  development 
agenda  (resolution  70/1),  we  are  living  a  historic 
moment  with  regard  to  institutional  governance  for 
sustainable development. Our presence here today, 15 
years after the Millennium Summit, is in fact proof of 
our  shared  will  to  face  the  challenges  that  hinder  the 
implementation of our common commitment, renewed 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  contained  in  “The  future  we  want” 
(resolution 66/288), to make irreversible the eradication 
of poverty and the reduction of inequality and to give 
new  impetus  to  peace,  cooperation,  development, 
security and stability in the world.
The  experience  we  have  gained  with 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) has made it possible to achieve great progress 
and  improve  the  living  conditions  of  humankind. 
Thanks to the MDGs, more than 1 billion people have 
overcome extreme poverty and remarkable progress has 
been made in the fight against hunger and with regard 
to access by a large number of girls to school, and the 
protection  of  the  planet.  The  MDGs  have  also  helped 
reduce  the  prevalence  of  HIV/AIDS  and  saved  many 
from  malaria.  They  also  created  new  and  innovative 
partnerships, galvanized public opinion and showed the 
importance of implementing ambitious goals.
With regard to the Democratic Republic of Congo, 
the implementation of the MDGs at the national level 
has been undertaken through a series of programmes, 
in  particular  the  first  and  second  generations  of  the 
national  strategy  for  growth  and  poverty  reduction 
paper,  the  stabilization  and  reconstruction  plan  for 
15-29223
27/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
conflict-affected areas of eastern Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  and  the  programme  for  rebuilding  the 
country called the five priorities of the Republic.
An  assessment  of  that  implementation  reveals  a 
mixed  situation.  In  several  sectors,  progress  suggests 
that  we  are  not  far  from  reaching  the  targets  set  for 
2015.  Despite  the  repeated  armed  conflicts  that  have 
weakened  its  resilience,  slowed  its  economic  growth 
and destroyed the results of many years of investment, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  been  able 
to  reduce  the  incidence  of  poverty  on  the  Congolese 
population  from  over  80  per  cent  in  1990  to  63.4  per 
cent in 2012. We expect even more significant results 
by making agriculture and industrialization one of our 
priorities in order to reduce the proportion of Congolese 
people  who  suffer  from  hunger,  while  giving  jobs  to 
those who seek them.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo is also on 
track to achieve MDG 2, as can been seen from the fact 
that the net enrolment rate in primary education is now 
over 90 per cent.
The same applies to maternal health and the fight 
against HIV/AIDS and malaria. From 2001 to 2013, in 
just 12 years, the maternal mortality rate fell from 1,289 
to 846 deaths per 100,000 births, and infant mortality 
fell from 126 to 58 deaths per 1,000 live births. With 
regard  to  HIV,  the  prevalence  rate  was  reduced  from 
4.1 per cent in 2005 to 1.1 per cent in 2013, while the 
proportion  of  children  under  5  sleeping  under  treated 
mosquito  nets  rose  from  10.9  per  cent  in  2005  to 
92.1 per cent in 2013.
With regard to gender equality and the empowerment 
of women, much remains to be done to lower traditional 
barriers and to increase the representation of women in 
political decision-making bodies. 
With regard to MDG 7, with regard to ensuring a 
sustainable  environment  and  preserving  biodiversity 
for the good of humankind, the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo has increased sustainable access to improved 
water  quality  and  sanitation  services  for  a  greater 
number of urban and rural communities. We have also 
increased the proportion of forested and other protected 
natural environments from 55 per cent in 1995 to more 
than  60  per  cent  today.  The  country  deserves  having 
those  efforts  recognized  and  compensated,  notably 
through  enhanced  financing  for  reducing  emissions 
from deforestation and forest degradation.
Despite  such  progress  observed  in  the  world  in 
general and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 
particular, we must recognize that in the past 15 years 
of our experience with the MDGs, the prevailing reality 
on the ground is that of a world that remains uncertain 
as  to  the  survival  of  humankind.  Unfortunately,  the 
elimination of poverty is still a largely unfinished task. 
Even worse, it remains a distant and illusory point on 
the horizon like a mirage unable to be achieved, much 
like,  among  other  things,  our  work  to  reduce  climate 
change.
The  United  Nations  has  sponsored  several  major 
conferences  throughout  the  world  to  identify  ways 
and means to break the vicious cycle of poverty. From 
those  talks,  a  dual  consensus  has  emerged  based  on 
the  view  that  underdevelopment  and  concomitant 
poverty  represent  an  affront  to  humankind  and  on 
the need to establish a new world order, a new global 
development agenda. The new Agenda is the result of 
long negotiations informed by the lessons learned in the 
implementation of the MDGs, which can of course be 
improved upon. However, the new Agenda is ambitious, 
inclusive and people-centred. If implemented by all, it 
could break through flagrant disparities and transform 
the future of humankind in a positive way. That is why 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  welcomes  the 
responsible decision we took this morning to adopt the 
new development Agenda.
This  historic  commitment  we  have  entered  into 
so  that  our  peoples  can  move  towards  development, 
prosperity and happiness cannot be limited to a simple 
adoption  of  the  Agenda  and  its  17  Goals  and  169 
targets.  We  must  all  work  to  implement  it  by  taking 
concrete  steps  to  truly  eradicate  poverty,  to  enhance 
economic  and  technical  cooperation,  to  advance  on 
the  path  towards  solidarity  and  development  and  to 
safeguard  international  peace  and  security.  Without 
peace,  democracy  and  justice  cannot  be  guaranteed 
and development cannot be envisaged. The investment 
in  international  peace  and  security  has  the  effect  of 
generating substantial dividends throughout the world, 
including in the form of economic benefits.
In  addition,  the  future  we  want  requires  common 
rules, principles and ambitions. We must build together 
a  new  international  society  that  is  more  united  and 
just and that espouses ethics that serve human dignity 
and  human  rights.  To  achieve  that  and  to  realize  the 
aspirations  of  all  our  peoples,  the  United  Nations 
remains  the  natural  crucible.  The  Economic  and 
28/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
Social Council and agencies within the United Nations 
system,  and  particularly 
the  High-level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development,  are  essential 
partners.  Nevertheless,  the  ultimate  responsibility  for 
action and results rests with each State Member of the 
Organization. It is only at that level that we can achieve 
our goals. The full success of this historic Summit will 
depend on our leaving it full of hope with the courage 
and temerity to make the world a better place for all.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Yves 
Germain  Joseph,  Minister  for  Planning  and  External 
Cooperation of the Republic of Haiti.
Mr.  Joseph  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  an 
honour for me to speak on behalf of the President of the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Joseph 
Martelly.
to 
the  Republic  of  Haiti 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  extend  the  warm 
congratulations  of 
the 
co-Chairs appointed to head this extraordinary Summit 
on  development.  It  is  a  happy  coincidence  that  the 
Summit is taking place at a time when the Organization 
is  commemorating  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its 
Charter.  This  is  of  course  a  very  good  sign  for  the 
success of our work. Rarely has the United Nations had 
a strategy that has brought people so closely together as 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), initiated 
in  2000  with  the  ambition  of  breaking  the  cycle  of 
poverty  for  far  too  many  people  on  the  planet.  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  have  unquestionably 
contributed to raising the awareness of the international 
community  and  strengthening  our  struggle  against 
extreme poverty in all its dimensions.
Today, 15 years later, where are we? The attainment 
of the Millennium Development Goals has been uneven, 
as we have noted during the preparatory work for this 
Summit.  In  fact,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
have led to very good policies through which remarkable 
results have sometimes been achieved. One of the most 
impressive is reducing by half extreme poverty, which 
was  the  case  for  more  than  700  million  people  in  a 
20-year period. At the same time, the campaign against 
malaria  and  tuberculosis  has  prevented  the  deaths  of 
millions of people. Access to safe drinking water has 
been expanded and millions of lives have been spared 
from  HIV/AIDS.  There  has  been  greater  access  to 
child and maternal health-care services and education 
for girls, and women have had greater participation in 
political life. Those are just a few examples that can be 
considered outstanding successes.
Nevertheless,  no  matter  how 
important  and 
impressive, such progress cannot conceal the fact that 
often  when  we  talk  about  poverty  reduction,  it  is  an 
illusion. How can we ignore the tragic reality of billions 
of individuals who continue to suffer from malnutrition 
or  who  die  of  hunger?  Hundreds  of  millions  of 
children cannot realize their full potential. Multitudes 
of  vulnerable  people  live  in  extremely  precarious 
situations  as  migrants,  refugees,  deported  persons  or 
those displaced in their own countries?
With regard to the Republic of Haiti, I am extremely 
pleased  to  say  that  the  public  policies  implemented 
in  recent  years,  largely  inspired  by  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  have  been  fruitful.  Significant 
progress has been recently achieved in Haiti. Whether 
we  talk  about  the  reduction  in  extreme  poverty  and 
inequality,  the  improvement  of  social  protections, 
the  fight  against  social  exclusion  or  the  expansion  of 
health-care coverage, the reduction of infant mortality, 
the  access  to  safe  drinking  water  or  food  security,  to 
name  a  few  essential  areas,  significant  progress  has 
been  achieved.  Three  years  ahead  of  schedule,  Haiti 
reached  the  target  related  to  reducing  the  prevalence 
of  underweight  children  under  5  years  of  age.  In  the 
field  of  education,  thanks  to  a  universal,  free  and 
compulsory  education  programme  set  up  by  the 
Martelly  Administration,  the  country  has  reached  an 
enrolment rate of around 90 per cent today, up from a 
50 per cent rate in 1990. We have had other significant 
successes, particularly in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 
The  cholera  epidemic  suddenly  introduced  into  the 
country five years ago is in clear decline, even though 
it is still far from being eradicated.
If  Haitians  have  good  reason  to  be  proud  of  the 
progress made with respect to the MDGs, the country 
still has a very long way to go. We are well aware of the 
immense needs of the population and the gaps and delays 
to make up. Basic infrastructure continues to be sorely 
lacking. The country’s structural handicaps are severe 
impediments  to  wealth  creation  and  to  the  delivery 
of  services  to  the  population.  There  are  pressing  and 
urgent environmental problems to overcome. 
The experience of recent years has taught us that 
there  is  nothing  inevitable  about  underdevelopment. 
Extreme  poverty  is  not  invincible;  we  can  contain 
it,  make  it  recede  and  work  towards  its  complete 
eradication.  We  can  reduce  inequalities  and  combat 
exclusion.  The  results  obtained  in  the  economic  and 
social areas, together with the democratic achievements, 
15-29223
29/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
are opening our country to a wide range of possibilities 
and real prospects for modernization over the coming 
years.
The  results  of  the  MDG  programme,  with  its 
successes  and  failures,  provides  us  with  lessons  that 
will  be  useful  in  the  context  of  the  implementation 
of  the  new  post-2015  development  plan.  For  its  part, 
the  Republic  of  Haiti  believes  that  the  role  of  the 
State as an essential development actor is an absolute 
necessity, especially in sectors where the private sector 
is of limited value or where it has been slow to fulfil 
its  promise.  Therefore,  the  State  should  strengthen 
its  capacity  to  define  and  implement  coherent  public 
policies and reforms to support the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Similarly, it is 
essential that Government coordination mechanisms be 
strengthened  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  bilateral 
and multilateral assistance, as well as assistance from 
non-governmental  organizations,  in  the  context  of 
striving to attain the SDGs. Finally, it is desirable that 
donors establish more flexible procedures to eliminate 
bottlenecks that too often limit the capacity and rate of 
absorption of assistance, particularly in the case of the 
least developed countries.
The Haitian Government fully supports the approach 
outlined by the United Nations to win the fight against 
extreme  poverty.  It  has  also  endorsed  in  its  national 
development  strategy  the  broad  guidelines  and  most 
of the targets set forth under the SDGs: the promotion 
of  sustained  economic  growth,  full  employment  and 
decent work for all, reducing inequality, putting gender 
equality  into  concrete  practice  and  accelerating  the 
universalization of the right to sustainable development, 
whether  it  be  the  right  to  education,  health,  food 
security,  justice,  energy,  social  protection,  drinking 
water or a healthy environment.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  carries  with  it  great  ambitions. 
Such  an  undertaking  can  be  achieved  only  if  each 
objective is accompanied by appropriate and coherent 
policies,  programmes  and  action  plans  and  adequate 
funding mechanisms. But above all, what will make a 
difference  is  the  political  will  of  Member  States  and 
their determination to achieve a world free of poverty 
and hunger by 2030.
With  the  adoption  of  the  SDGs,  we  undertake  to 
complete  the  project  begun  in  2000  with  the  MDGs. 
The  Republic  of  Haiti  is  committed  to  this  struggle 
by  the  United  Nations  to  eliminate  extreme  poverty 
and  to  establish  a  more  just  and  equitable  world  with 
sustainable economic growth that benefits everyone. It 
is up to each of us, in a renewed spirit of solidarity, to 
mobilize  and  gather  around  our  shared  values   and  do 
everything we can to be able to say with pride to future 
generations  on  the  day  of  reckoning  in  2030  that  the 
2015 commitments were indeed met.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Mrs. Neneh Macdouall-Gaye, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia.
Mrs.  Macdouall-Gaye  (Gambia):  On  behalf  of 
His  Excellency  Sheikh  Alhaji  Yahya  A.J.J.  Jammeh 
Babil Mansa, President of the Republic of the Gambia, 
I  feel  deeply  privileged  and  singularly  honoured 
to  be  present  here  on  the  occasion  of  this  historic 
meeting.  The  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Gambia  would  like  to  commend  the  United  Nations 
and the global community for their vision in drafting 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  as  the  successor 
plan  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
The  articulation  of  the  new  development  goals  is  no 
doubt  the  supreme  manifestation  of  our  collective 
will and desire to enhance the lives and livelihoods of 
humankind.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  muster 
greater courage, mobilize added resources and marshal 
our  human  capital  to  ensure  that  the  new  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  effectively  and  expeditiously 
complete the unfinished agenda of the MDGs.
As  the  community  of  nations,  we  have  cause  to 
celebrate, for significant progress was made during the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
The global scenario indicates that the number of people 
living  in  extreme  poverty  has  declined,  remarkable 
achievements have been reported in school enrolment 
and  gender  parity,  and  there  has  been  an  astonishing 
reduction in the number of undernourished people. 
Also  in  the  area  of  health,  robust  and  sustained 
immunization has reduced to more than half the under-5 
mortality rate. I am happy to report that in the Gambia 
the targets for both infant and under-5 mortality rates 
have been met. It is also a source of pride and satisfaction 
to note that under the Millennium Development Goals 
the  Gambia  made  significant  strides  and  achieved 
major  results,  particularly  with  the  programme  for 
immunizing  children  under  the  age  of  1  against 
measles. In November 2014, the  Food and Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  awarded  the 
30/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
Gambia an insignia for achieving the MDG 1 target and 
reducing  by  half  the  proportion  of  people  who  suffer 
from  hunger.  It  is  also  to  be  noted  that  the  Gambia 
has reduced the prevalence of undernourishment from 
13.3 per cent in 1992 to 6 per cent in 2012.
In  the  education  sector,  after  extending  free 
education for girls, the Government of the Gambia was 
able to attain gender parity at the low basic level by 2005, 
at the upper basic level by 2009 and at the secondary 
level by 2014. In further extending free education for 
all  of  the  secondary  level,  statistics  show  that  in  the 
2015-2016  academic  year,  221,550  girls  have  been 
enrolled,  in  comparison  to  212,354  boys.  In  addition, 
this programme gives the population access to 12 years 
of free education from the primary to secondary levels.
Another  important  milestone  achievement  for  us 
in  the  Gambia  is  access  to  safe  drinking  water:  the 
Gambia reached 91 per cent coverage in 2013.
The Government of the Gambia intends to further 
redouble efforts to sustain and improve upon the gains 
we have recorded and address the challenges to improve 
the livelihood of all Gambians. In that regard, we are 
stepping up our investments in the productive sectors, 
infrastructure and social services. 
Despite  the  achievements  made  at  national  and 
continental  levels,  we  need  to  acknowledge  that 
daunting  challenges  remain.  There  are  inequalities 
between  regions  and  countries  and  between  urban 
and  rural  areas.  Climate  change  and  environmental 
degradation will require greater attention if we are to 
sustain  and  enhance  the  gains  already  registered.  In 
that connection, I call on all countries to come up with 
an  ambitious  climate  change  treaty  in  Paris  later  this 
year. 
Of  equal 
significance, 
I  call 
for  massive 
investment  in  our  youth,  who  are  not  only  the  pillars 
of our societies but the future of countries. Vocational 
training and skills enhancement to enable our youths to 
secure gainful employment and contribute to national 
development  will  be  the  watchword.  It  is  therefore 
important  that  we  strive  to  make  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  as  effective  as  possible. 
One way of realizing that is to mainstream the SDGs in 
our national developmental planning processes, giving 
them the weight they deserve as part and parcel of our 
development aspirations.
remain 
to 
development. Millions, if not billions, of dollars, which 
the  biggest  challenge 
Conflicts 
could  accelerate  development,  are  spent  on  arms  and 
lethal  weapons.  Several  million  people  who  could 
have  constituted  our  human  capital  for  development 
lost  their  lives,  or  are  maimed  or  displaced,  with 
many  others  living  as  refugees  in  camps  that  are 
devoid of basic facilities. The United Nations and the 
entire  global  community  must  give  urgent  attention 
to  addressing  conflicts  and  make  the  world  a  safer 
and more secure place for all. That is central if we are 
going to achieve the objective of leaving no one behind 
under the Sustainable Development Goals. The SDGs, 
no doubt, hold a lot of promise for the world, and we 
must  learn  from  our  experiences  during  the  MDGs’ 
implementation.
Doubtless,  the  SDGs  are  very  ambitious  and,  as 
such, must be met with the same level of ambition as 
far  as  their  implementation  is  concerned.  Capacity-
building, finance and technology are the prerequisites 
for  the  SDGs’  success.  Developing  countries  must 
therefore  accelerate  domestic  resource  mobilization 
through  innovative  practices  and  by  involving  the 
private sector in order to finance development.
The 
To that end, we strongly call on the developed world 
to meet their overseas development assistance pledges 
of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income.  It  should 
be  noted  that  an  assessment  of  Goal  8  of  the  MDGs 
indicates that only a few countries have met that target.
transfer  and  diffusion  of  appropriate 
technology and capacity-building will be fundamental 
in  the  achievement  of  the  SDGs.  A  multi-stakeholder 
partnership  must  be  built  and  enhanced  to  mobilize 
and  share  knowledge.  Expertise  must  be  marshalled 
to  complement  the  efforts  of  governance,  particularly 
those  of  developing  countries.  The  implementation 
of the SDGs cannot be left to goodwill alone. Robust 
mechanisms must be set up and means of verification 
established. 
In  conclusion,  let  it  be  said  that  the  SDGs,  as  far 
as  the  Government  of  the  Gambia  is  concerned,  is  a 
contract  with  humankind,  and,  although  the  United 
Nations  may  not  be  perfect,  it  is  the  only  global 
institution  we  have  which  is  capable  of  ensuring  our 
security and development. Therefore, on behalf of the 
President of the Republic of the Gambia, I call on the 
global community to once again rally around and give 
undivided  support  to  the  United  Nations  in  the  noble 
task  of  uplifting  the  livelihoods  of  most  notably  the 
underprivileged. For it is only in that way that future 
generations will judge us in a favourable light. I wish 
15-29223
31/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
everyone  Eid  Mubarak  and  thank  them  for  their  kind 
attention.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on Ms. Mariame Fofana, Head of the delegation of 
Burkina Faso.
Ms.  Fofana  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
take the floor on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Michel 
Kafando,  President  of  Burkina  Faso  and  President  of 
the transition.
the  holding  of 
Burkina  Faso  welcomes 
this 
important  Summit  on  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda (resolution 70/1). As we celebrate 
this  new  development  agenda,  a  process  which  began 
back at the Rio+20 Conference in June 2012 , we must 
acknowledge the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  whose  dedication  and  zeal  have 
made it possible to achieve the success of this fortuitous 
initiative. Burkina Faso expresses its heartfelt gratitude 
to  the  two  co-facilitators  for  their  commitment  and 
sense  of  compromise.  We  also  congratulate  all  States 
on  their  devotion  and  patience,  which  has  led  to  the 
adoption  today  of  this  new  consensus  document  on 
which we pin much hope.
This Agenda, which reaffirms the principles of the 
Rio+20  Declaration  with  regard  to  the  eradication  of 
poverty, the fight against hunger, quality education for 
all and the fight against inequalities, challenges every 
Member  State  to  continue  the  work  already  begun 
in  the  framework  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  With  the  MDGs,  Burkina  Faso  has 
attained results, even if the outcome still poses several 
challenges for us today.
This new development Agenda opens a new cycle, 
which  gives  our  States  an  opportunity  to  adopt  new 
and  more  ambitious  perspectives  in  keeping  with  the 
profound and legitimate aspirations of our peoples. My 
delegation would also like to recognize the consensus 
obtained  on  the  17  Goals  and  169  targets  of  the  new 
development programme. Their indivisible nature and 
the commitment of all States to work for their effective 
implementation will ensure their awaited success.
pretend that we are building a world if in that process 
we set aside those to whom it is destined. Henceforth, 
we will spare no effort to implement that objective in 
order to arrive at a result that will meet the expectations 
of our youth.
The  implementation  of  the  new  development  plan 
undeniably  demands  a  mobilization  of  resources. 
My  delegation  therefore  welcomed  the  unanimous 
support for the Addis Ababa Action Agenda last July, 
particularly in terms of providing support to the post-
2015 development agenda.
It would also be wise for the financing mechanisms 
of the new development agenda to incorporate the set of 
issues on States’ adaptability to the impacts of climate 
change. The implementation of such an ambitious project 
might  prove  difficult,  hence  the  need  for  joint  action 
by States and a responsible commitment on the part of 
the entire international community. It would therefore 
not be fair if we, as politicians, shirked our obligations 
with  regard  to  official  development  assistance  and 
instead advocated a greater role for the private sector 
in the guise of public-private partnerships as a miracle 
solution  for  increasing  investment,  given  that  social 
investments, which do not generate significant profits, 
are not a priority for the private sector.
The success of the post-2015 development agenda 
will depend upon its full integration into our national, 
subregional  and 
regional  development  strategies. 
It  will  also  derive  from  the  planning  modalities  to 
be  implemented,  as  well  as  from  the  follow-up  and 
evaluation  mechanisms  that  will  be  put  in  place, 
which  will,  in  due  course,  provide  reliable  statistics. 
Moreover, achieving the expected results will require us 
to establish a high-level follow-up framework. It is also 
important  for  African  countries  to  create  a  stringent 
follow-up  mechanism  for  the  post-2015  agenda  and 
the 2063 agenda of the African Union — a mechanism 
that will be capable of providing, in a timely fashion, 
transparent,  reliable  and  disaggregated  statistics  that 
will  yield  an  objective  assessment  of  the  remaining 
challenges,  along  with  a  step-by-step  analysis  of  the 
outlook for their resolution.
My delegation reiterates its resolve and commitment 
to  work  towards  the  full  realization  of  all  those 
objectives. However, we would like to make a special 
plea  regarding  Goal  8,  concerning  youth,  spearhead 
of our nations and the most important segment of our 
population. It would be inappropriate, even arbitrary, to 
As was stressed by the High-level Political Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development  held  in  New  York  from 
26 June to 8 July, the problems of climate change remain 
central to our agenda and deserve particular attention in 
the implementation process. In that regard, whether we 
address  desertification,  land  degradation  or  drought, 
32/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
my country, Burkina Faso, along with other developing 
countries in general, remains extremely vulnerable to 
climate  change.  My  delegation  would  like  to  urge  all 
stakeholders to redouble their efforts so that at the close 
of the work of the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in Paris at the end of this 
year,  we  can  achieve  tangible  and  practical  results  to 
protect our planet from global warming.
security  and 
stability  are 
indispensable  factors  for  development,  special  and 
sustained  attention  should  be  given  to  Africa  to 
support  it  in  its  efforts  aimed  at  conflict  prevention 
and  resolution  and  peacekeeping.  Convinced  of  that 
reality,  the  African  Union  will  organize  a  high-level 
event on peace and security on 1 and 2 October 2015, 
in the context of the commemoration of the seventieth 
anniversary of the creation of the United Nations.
Because  peace, 
To  conclude,  Burkina  Faso  reiterates  its  support 
for  the  new  global  development  Agenda  in  the  hope 
that this new covenant will allow us to respond to the 
pressing needs of our populations.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Anthony 
Mothae Maruping, Commissioner for Economic Affairs 
of the African Union Commission.
Mr.  Maruping  (African  Union  Commission):  I 
have the singular honour and special privilege to read 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Chairperson  of  the 
African Union Commission, Ms. Nkosazana Dlamini-
Zuma. 
The  African  Union  Commission 
recognizes, 
acknowledges  and  welcomes 
the  progress  made 
in  some  areas  and  notes  the  lessons  learned  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
in  the  last  15  years.  Africa  welcomes  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  just  adopted  in  the  form  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1) and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
which form the road map towards ‘‘the world we want’’. 
That  Agenda  will,  in  addition,  provide  the  conditions 
necessary for the completion of the unfinished business 
of the Millennium Development Goals.
It  was  with  satisfaction  that  Africa  contributed 
substantially  and  influenced  the  work  of  the  Open 
Working Group and the intergovernmental negotiation 
process  by  submitting  a  comprehensive  and  well-
articulated common African position. Africa welcomes 
the  new  Agenda,  which  represents  a  balanced  agenda 
that  covers  the  three  principal  areas  of  development 
that have been identified, namely, the social, economic 
and  sustainability  considerations.  The  continent  of 
Africa was also gratified to host the Third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  in  Addis 
Ababa,  Ethiopia,  which  produced  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action Agenda in July.
Africa  is  ready  to  pursue  the  attainment  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  using  the  vehicle 
of the African Union’s Agenda 2063, which is a more 
detailed,  more  broadly  encompassing  and  longer-
term  development  framework.  Agenda  2063,  which 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
encapsulates 
will  assist 
the  continent 
to  achieve  accelerated, 
sustained,  stable  and  inclusive  economic  growth  that 
leads  to  sound,  resilient,  sustainable  and  inclusive 
socioeconomic development. Agenda 2063 will create 
jobs,  in  particular  for  the  currently  marginalized 
sections  of  society  such  as  women,  youth  and  people 
living  with  disabilities,  and  will  address  inequalities 
in the distribution of income and wealth. That should 
contribute towards the poverty eradication we seek. 
Through  Agenda  2063,  Africa  also  seeks  to 
structurally  transform  the  economies  of  its  member 
States  by  ensuring  much  higher  added  value  and 
diversification. That will require, inter alia, particular 
focus  on 
infrastructure  development  and  energy 
in  human  development, 
generation, 
including 
agriculture 
production improvement, accelerated industrialization, 
especially  in  manufacturing,  and  the  provision  of 
relevant services.
investment 
education 
training, 
and 
Furthermore,  accelerated  integration  and  trade, 
along  with  enhanced  productive  capacities,  including 
technology development, transfer and diffusion, should 
lead  to  increased  competitiveness  and  productivity, 
attracting  investment  and  boosting  Africa’s  ability 
to  join  regional  and  international  value  chains.  In 
addition, Africa has decided to pay special attention to 
the  realization  of  the  vast  potential  of  its  blue  ocean 
economy  and  to  put  in  place  measures  to  sustainably 
manage the continent’s rich biodiversity.
Agenda  2063 
is  a  strategic 
for 
people-driven development that relies on the potential of 
the African people, especially women and youth. Gender 
parity and women’s empowerment in all spheres of life 
and the elimination of all forms of discrimination will 
framework 
15-29223
33/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
be  vigorously  pursued.  High  priority  will  be  given  to 
the economic engagement of youth. Women’s economic 
and financial empowerment and youth engagement in 
economic  activities  can  ensure  the  mobilization  and 
utilization  of  all  of  the  human  resources  and  talents 
available  for  Africa’s  accelerated  economic  growth 
and  socioeconomic  development,  as  well  as  poverty 
eradication. 
On the social front, Africa will achieve excellence 
in human-resources capacity development by improving 
the  quality  of  education  and  training,  by  ensuring 
universal  and  equitable  access  to  high-quality  health 
care, by providing universal and reliable access to safe 
water  in  a  sustainable  manner,  especially  access  to 
safe  drinking  water  in  urban  and  rural  areas,  and  by 
promoting  sustainable  social  protection  programmes, 
among  other  endeavours.  Key  concerns  will  include, 
inter alia, good governance, adherence to human rights 
and  the  skilful  management  of  diversity,  peace  and 
security.
Why is Africa so hopeful? Because broad-ranging 
consultations with stakeholders have been undertaken, 
ensuring  wide  ownership  and  commitment,  because 
the  means  for  financing  have  received  due  attention, 
because  risk  analysis  has  been  carefully  conducted 
and  the  relevant  management  strategies  duly  devised, 
because  the  assessment  of  the  capacities  required  for 
implementation  of  the  Agenda  has  been  conducted 
and  modalities  for  closing  capacity  gaps  have  been 
delineated,  because  an  appropriate  accountability 
framework is being developed, and because the goals, 
targets and indicators are clear and are being quantified 
to  enable  an  effective  monitoring  and  evaluation 
process, which will ensure results-based management.
There  is  no  need  to  re-emphasize  that  statistics 
the 
enable  meaningful  policy 
articulation  of  development  projects  and  programmes 
of  action.  Statistics  also  enable  the  formulation  of 
a  credible  accountability  framework.  Without  the 
adequate, reliable and timely statistics management of 
development programmes, an effective monitoring and 
evaluation process would be constrained. Strengthening 
statistics systems is therefore imperative for success in 
the pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
formulation  and 
Against that background and with the cooperation 
of the international community, Africa should be able 
to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  within 
the  specified  period  and  within  the  framework  of  the 
African Agenda 2063 implementation plans.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Mr. Dmitry Pankin, Chair of the Board of Governors 
of the Eurasian Development Bank.
Mr. Pankin (Eurasian Development Bank) (spoke 
in Russian): I will not reiterate how important it is that 
the  General  Assembly  has  adopted  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  of  the  United  Nations  (resolution 
70/1). It is clearly important, as many of those speaking 
today have already noted. What remains to be discussed 
is how we should organize our work in order to achieve 
the  Goals.  In  other  words,  we  need  to  identify  the 
practical steps that need to be taken. I wish to note that 
it is extremely important that the attainment of certain 
goals should not lead us to undermine other ones, which 
would create a conflict between the attainment of some 
goals and the achievement of others.
I  will  offer  one  specific  example,  based  on  the 
countries that founded the Eurasian Development Bank 
after  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union.  For  14  years, 
from 2000 to 2014, the growth of real income compared 
to  labour  productivity  rose  in  those  countries  by  two 
and  a  half  times,  while  in  developed  countries,  real 
income during the same period was ahead of the growth 
in  labour  productivity  by  only  11  per  cent.  In  other 
developing countries, that ratio was around 20 per cent.
What does that mean? On the one hand, it is a good 
thing;  the  real  income  of  people  in  many  countries 
has  risen,  poverty  measures  have  declined,  and  the 
incomes  of  pensioners  and  retirees  have  significantly 
increased. But the fact that revenue was so far ahead of 
labour productivity means that those countries became 
non-competitive,  which  made  them  less  attractive  for 
investment.  That,  in  turn,  meant  that  the  long-term 
outlook for sustainable development slowed down and 
was undermined. Therefore, we need to fundamentally 
redesign our future models of economic development. 
In that regard, the conclusion that we can draw is that, 
as  we  move  towards  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, we must do so in a way that does not undermine 
the attainment of certain goals at the expense of other 
goals and targets.
I  would  like  now  to  draw  members’  attention  to 
another issue. Returning to the development bank that 
I  represent,  in  recent  years,  following  the  financial 
crisis  of  2008,  we  saw  many  of  the  most  powerful 
international  banks  reduce  their  operations  in  the 
developing  world.  We  saw  capital  flight  from  the 
markets  of  developing  countries  towards  those  of 
developed countries. Basically, we have witnessed what 
34/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
we call an outflow of quality investment. We therefore 
face  the  serious  question  of  who  is  going  to  continue 
to finance the infrastructure projects that are the most 
important projects in emerging market countries. It is 
no coincidence that, in that context, we are seeing many 
projects  aimed  at  the  creation  of  new  development 
banks.  What  do  we  see?  We  see  that  the  countries  of 
the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa group are 
creating new banks, along with the creation of the Asian 
Infrastructure Investment Bank, in which China plays 
the leading role. In those conditions, the most serious 
and important issue is how to coordinate the work of all 
those banks.
In my region, the Eurasian area, we now have the 
European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development, 
the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. As 
I  have  said,  we  now  have  new  players  coming  on  the 
scene,  including  the  Asian  Infrastructure  Investment 
Bank, for instance. The issue of coordinating the work 
of  the  banks  is  fundamental.  We  see  several  banks 
working at the same time on a number of infrastructure 
projects.  We  need  a  single  unified  approach,  along 
with  unified  standards,  so  that  the  same  norms  and 
expectations are applied to the various projects being 
financed.
What  is  crucial  here,  I  believe,  is  the  vital  role 
that  the  United  Nations  could  play,  as  a  body,  as 
an  institution,  by  functioning  as  the  coordinator 
with  regard  to  organizing  the  efforts  of  the  various 
international development banks.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I 
now  call  on  Mr.  Saber  Chowdhury,  President  of  the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union): 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contained 
in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  aspire  to  shape  the  lives  of  peoples 
in each and every country. Never before has the focus 
on  people  been  so  closely  interwoven  with  themes  of 
the  planet,  peace,  prosperity  and,  last  but  not  least, 
partnerships. This Summit has thus presented a once in 
a lifetime opportunity to steer the world towards a safer, 
sustainable,  inclusive  and  prosperous  path.  It  is  my 
distinct honour as President of the Inter-Parliamentary 
Union (IPU), the world’s organization of parliaments, 
to  thank  the  General  Assembly  for  the  opportunity 
to address the Assembly, which has now adopted this 
challenging, ambitious and transformational Agenda.
Mr. Alrowaiei (Bahrain), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
The world we have known over the past few years 
is  going  to  change  dramatically  with  the  adoption  of 
the  SDGs,  and  we  as  a  parliamentary  community  are 
pleased  to  express  our  solidarity  and  full  support  for 
the  just  adopted  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The 
perspectives of parliaments and parliamentarians from 
across  the  world  have  enriched  the  formulation  and 
articulation of the SDGs, thanks to the outreach efforts 
initiated by the United Nations and the resulting global 
conversations.  The  IPU  is  proud  to  have  contributed 
to  that  process.  We  welcome  the  recognition  of  the 
IPU  engagement  and  its  contribution  to  the  outcome 
document that contains the Goals.
In  this  very  Hall  earlier  this  month,  speakers  of 
parliaments  from  around  the  world  held  their  fourth 
World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, at which 
they unanimously adopted a declaration that attests to 
the strong and growing partnership between the United 
Nations and the IPU. The preamble to the Charter of the 
United Nations begins, as we all know, with the words 
“We the peoples”, and parliaments are the institutions 
that represent the will of the people. It is that common 
focus on people, their rights, their dignity, their security 
and their aspirations that bring the United Nations and 
the IPU together as natural partners. It is that centrality 
of people and their interests that binds us as legislators 
to the executive arms of Governments.
The  2  September  declaration  of  the  fourth  World 
Conference of Speakers of Parliaments, entitled “Placing 
democracy  at  the  service  of  peace  and  sustainable 
development:  Building  the  world  the  people  want”, 
will help to galvanize political will and show national 
ownership, which is critical for the implementation of 
the  new  post-2015  development  agenda  through  the 
active  engagement  of  the  parliamentary  community. 
It provides political guidance to parliaments on major 
issues  facing  the  world  today  from  inequality  and 
poverty to climate change and disaster-risk reduction. 
It  talks  about  youth  disenchantment,  migration  and 
terrorism.  It  reiterates  our  commitment  to  a  world 
free  of  nuclear  weapons,  which  will  be  marked  again 
tomorrow,  26  September,  by  the  International  Day 
for  the  Total  Elimination  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Those 
challenges are all interlinked and require coherent and 
robust action by all States.
In  solidarity  with  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  the  Speakers’  declaration  pledges  to  place  the 
15-29223
35/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
concerns  of  people  across  the  world  at  the  very  heart 
of  policymaking.  At  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union, 
we are particularly heartened by the inclusions of the 
Goals on governance, women’s empowerment and the 
need  to  address  inequality.  Those  goals  are  part  of 
our  core  business.  We  note  with  satisfaction  that  the 
governance  goal,  in  particular,  points  to  the  need  for 
reform in order to make all institutions of Government, 
including  parliaments,  fit  for  purpose.  That  goal  is  a 
huge  political  breakthrough.  It  sends  a  very  strong 
signal  and  a  very  powerful  message  that  we  are 
serious about changing the way we do business at the 
highest political level, including the core functions of 
representation, the appropriation of resources through 
the  budgetary  process,  law-making  and  oversight, 
as  well  as  national  ownership  of  global  processes, 
Parliaments  have  a  crucial  role  to  play  in  translating 
those goals into reality. Parliaments are thus critical to 
the success of the Sustainable Development Goals.
To  succeed,  we  must  all  act  together  in  concert 
and in a coherent, coordinated manner across political 
divides.  All  institutions  of  Government,  as  well  as 
other  groups  in  society,  such  as  academia,  civil-
society organizations, community and religious leaders 
and  youth  must  work  together  to  ensure  effective 
implementation. Parliaments can make a real difference 
by  fulfilling  their  constitutional  role  and  mandate  in 
monitoring progress, holding Governments to account 
and  ensuring  that  we  deliver  locally  what  has  been 
pledged  globally.  Ultimately,  it  is  visionary  political 
leadership  that  will  propel  those  goals  forward  and 
translate  them  from  words  into  action.  As  a  body  of 
world  leaders,  the  General  Assembly  has  the  power 
to  build  a  better  world  for  our  people  and  for  future 
generations.  The  IPU  and  national  parliaments  are 
available  to  help.  Together  we  can  shape  and  create 
the  future  that  our  citizens  want  and  which  we  have 
pledged and are duty-bound to deliver.
I wish the Assembly an excellent Summit.
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by Mr. Zhang Xinsheng, President of 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Mr.  Zhang  Xinsheng  (International  Union  for 
Conservation  of  Nature):  The  International  Union 
for  Conservation  of  Nature  (IUCN)  strongly  believes 
that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  with  its  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  provides  an  important  framework  to  address 
the  challenges  that  we  face  today,  and  we  commend 
members  for  adopting  those  transformational  Goals. 
The  IUCN  commends  Governments  for  their  open 
spirit  throughout  the  negotiations  and  for  including 
the  concerns  and  advice  of  civil  society  and  other 
stakeholders. Most of all, we commend them for taking 
the  initiative  to  jointly  agree  on  a  vision  for  a  better 
future  in  which  no  one  is  left  behind  and  people  can 
live in harmony with nature. Today’s adoption is more 
than  just  a  symbolic  act,  it  is  a  promise  to  millions 
and to all generations. The IUCN has long envisioned 
sustainable  development  as  a  path  that  leads  to  a  just 
and prosperous world that values and conserves nature 
by ensuring, through effective and active governance, 
that its resources are used sustainably. The 2030 Agenda 
reflects those wishes.
As the Assembly knows, all life on Earth depends 
on  well-functioning  ecosystems.  A  nation’s  ability 
to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  just 
adopted today at the United Nations Summit during the 
opening days of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session,  depends  on  a  well-functioning  ecosystem.  If 
a  nation  fails  to  create  or  can  no  longer  sustain  such 
an ecosystem, it will not be able to make meaningful 
steps  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
At 
the  special  IUCN  high-level 
international 
meeting,  the  Eco-Forum  Global,  held  in  China,  the 
declaration  adopted  at 
that  meeting  particularly 
highlights  that,  as  an  organization  rooted  in  nature 
conservation,  the  IUCN  continues  to  promote  the 
sustainable use of natural resources. Established in 1948 
in Paris, the IUCN is now based in Geneva. The IUCN 
is  particularly  delighted  to  see  the  manner  in  which 
environmental dimensions have been integrated in the 
SDGs,  not  only  in  those  Goals  specifically  dedicated 
to protecting our natural environment — the land, air 
and oceans — but also through the inclusion of entities 
that refer to the role played by nature in our response 
to current challenges. The latter include poverty, food 
security,  water  security  and  disaster-risk  reduction, 
among others. 
The  IUCN  calls  for  nature-based  solutions  to 
sustainable development issues. Accordingly, the SDGs 
are an opportunity to address convergent key issues that 
demonstrate that there can be sustainable development 
only if we protect the planet and its ecosystems. Given 
that  a  supportive  functioning  ecosystem  will  help 
achieve many of the Goals, it is of the utmost importance 
36/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
that we invest our efforts and resources into conserving 
and restoring such systems.
The Addis Ababa Action Agenda provides channels 
for mobilizing the necessary resources. Some of them, 
such as redirecting funds away from harmful subsidies 
towards  clean  investments,  are  long  overdue.  At  the 
national  level,  development  policies  need  to  take  into 
account the role that countries’ ecosystems will play in 
national development and do so in a manner that actively 
contributes to the implementation and achievements of 
the SDGs. Investing in nature is investing in people. 
While we have spent the past several years talking, 
discussing,  negotiating  and  agreeing,  now  we  need 
to  shift  our  attention  to  implementing  our  universal 
Agenda. We have to work together through integrated 
partnerships  across  various  dimensions.  Every  State, 
every person and every stakeholder needs to play their 
part, in order to ensure the success of this great Agenda. 
We are ready to act together for a sustainable future. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr. Martin Kreutner, Dean and Executive Secretary of 
the International Anti-Corruption Academy.
Mr.  Kreutner 
(International  Anti-Corruption 
Academy): We have all witnessed today history in the 
making. We have seen the adoption of a comprehensive 
post-2015  development  agenda  —  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  —  in  resolution  70/1, 
with  its  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
and  169  targets.  That  new  Agenda  provides  the  most 
consultative  and  comprehensive  path  and  the  most 
inclusive  and  illustrated  process  ever,  reaching  out 
to  and  taking  on  board  all  relevant  stakeholders,  our 
peoples and the global community.
It is, therefore, a genuine honour for me to be here 
on  this  memorable  day  to  address  the  United  Nations 
Sustainable  Development  Summit.  Let  me  start  by 
commending the States Members of the United Nations 
and all of the stakeholders involved; in that connection 
I  pay  particular  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  as  well  as  his  staff,  for  his  leadership, 
devotion and dedication. We have come a long way, and 
we have reached a point today where it is fair to allow 
ourselves humble feelings of pride.
However,  we  will  all  be  judged  by  concrete  and 
tangible results in a world that is entering turbulent times. 
We face a series of mounting, perhaps unprecedented, 
global challenges: economic uncertainty, huge numbers 
of  refugees,  increasing  distrust  among  the  leading 
Powers  and  climate  change,  among  others.  What  is 
more,  we  must  address  those  challenges  at  a  time  of 
declining trust in political, institutional and corporate 
leadership,  as  well  as  a  time  of  scepticism  about  the 
ability of national and international actors to make the 
world a better and fairer place.
Therefore, in that context, I would like to talk today 
about  two  journeys  that  the  world  must  take  between 
this  Summit  and  2030.  And  I  want  to  urge  members 
to  consider  how  closely  interrelated  they  are.  Ideally, 
there should be a single comprehensive avenue or one 
compass for actions that sets our trajectory and shines 
the light on the way forward.
The  first  involves  fulfilling  an  ambitious  and 
inspiring global Agenda with 17 new SDGs, aimed at 
securing  a  better  future  for  all  of  the  human  beings 
on  this  planet,  and  the  second  involves  strengthening 
our  efforts  to  fight  corruption  everywhere,  in  all  its 
forms. Let me be clear — this second, anti-corruption 
journey is not an optional extra. Nor is it a small part of 
some global policy buffet that one can taste hesitantly 
and then leave on the plate. On the contrary, a strong, 
relentless  fight  against  corruption,  with  leadership 
from the very top, both nationally and internationally, 
both in the political but also in the corporate world, is 
essential  for  realizing  this  Sustainable  Development 
Agenda of ours.
Let  us 
in  meeting 
look  at  our  record 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  There  were 
real  achievements  in  reducing  extreme  poverty  and 
child mortality and in increasing the numbers of girls 
going  to  school,  for  example.  But  it  is  no  secret  that 
corruption,  at  the  same  time,  greatly  hampered  the 
fulfilment  of  the  MDGs  overall.  The  good  news  is 
that by multiplying our anti-corruption efforts, we can 
make  sure  that  the  SDGs  meet  with  a  more  fortunate 
fate. That will be a huge task because we are facing a 
formidable opponent. Corruption is an evil that knows 
no boundaries. It is present throughout all continents, 
all societies and sectors. It costs more than 5 per cent of 
the global gross domestic product, adding between 5 to 
10 per cent to any single contract in business.
Corruption hits the world’s most vulnerable people 
the hardest. Research suggests that in countries where 
more than 60 per cent of the population pay bribes to 
receive public services, more women die in childbirth, 
fewer  people  have  access  to  clean  water  and  more 
15-29223
37/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
young people are illiterate. As I have said in many other 
forums,  corruption  is  the  antithesis  to  human  rights, 
the  venom  undermining  the  rule  of  law,  the  poison 
attacking prosperity and development, and the opposite 
of  equity  and  equality.  Most  fundamentally,  it  erodes 
trust and confidence and contributes to the collapse of 
societies and economies.
an  ever-growing  constituency  of  64  parties,  bringing 
together more than 5 billion people, or two thirds of the 
world’s population. The International Anti-Corruption 
Academy 
is  also  a  post-secondary  educational 
institution  that  offers  technical  assistance,  capacity-
building, world-class anti-corruption programmes and 
related research.
Encouragingly, the global anti-corruption movement 
has already come a long way since its beginning nearly 
20  years  ago.  Among  other  regional  instruments, 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development’s  Anti-Bribery  Convention  came  into 
force in 1999, and the United Nations Convention against 
Corruption, with its global reach, entered into force in 
2005. To date, it is the only convention in the United 
Nations set of conventions that has also implemented a 
State-owned review mechanism in 2009. There is also 
a growing awareness, among both political leaders and 
the public, of corruption’s devastating effects.
The 
International  Anti-Corruption  Academy 
(IACA),  the  organization  that  I  have  the  honour  to 
lead, is proud to have actively contributed to the post-
2015  development  agenda  process.  We  have  done  so 
by  repeatedly  emphasizing  the  necessity  of  making 
good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law,  which  require 
strong and stable, fair and just anti-corruption regimes, 
an  explicit  component  of  that  process.  I  am  therefore 
delighted to see strong anti-corruption language in the 
outcome document for this Summit (resolution 70/1), in 
particular under Goal 16, which aims to 
“[s]ubstantially reduce corruption and bribery in all 
their  forms...  [d]evelop  effective,  accountable  and 
transparent institutions at all levels... [and p]romote 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and  international 
levels and ensure equal access to justice for all”.
Just  as  encouragingly,  the  outcome  document 
also  recognizes  that  an  inspiring  vision  needs  daily 
implementation. That is absolutely crucial, if the SDGs 
are to become a reality. That is where anti-corruption 
efforts  are  most  needed.  The  anti-corruption  agenda 
has  significantly  broadened 
its  perspective  since 
the  mid-1990s.  Back  then,  it  consisted  of  a  single 
pillar  —  criminal  law  and  enforcement.  Today,  there 
are  three  more:  prevention,  education  and  awareness-
raising, and international cooperation. IACA’s activities 
span  all  three  of  those  new  pillars,  empowering 
anti-corruption professionals across the globe. We are 
an  independent  intergovernmental  organization  with 
In  July, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  adopted 
resolution  29/11,  which  explicitly  recognized 
the 
negative  impact  of  corruption  on  human  rights  and 
sustainable  development  and 
the  significance  of 
anti-corruption  education.  In  that  context,  it  noted 
with  appreciation  the  capacity-building  activities  and 
specialized curricula developed by the United Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  IACA,  respectively. 
Nelson Mandela once said that education has the power 
to change the world. In our context, it is fair to argue 
that anti-corruption education has the power to help us 
achieve  the  SDGs  and  transform  the  world  or,  in  the 
words  of  Malala  Yousafzai,  which  touched  us  all  this 
morning, “Education is hope. Education is peace.”
I am confident that, if we unite in a spirit of global 
partnership,  the  fight  against  corruption  will  prevail 
and the SDGs will become reality, so that we can, as 
I mentioned at the start of my statement, successfully 
complete the two journeys via a single path. Investing in 
anti-corruption education and empowerment is the smart 
way to work towards achieving sustainable development, 
safeguarding human rights and strengthening the rule 
of law on the road to 2030 and beyond. Let us therefore 
be inspired by the vision of this new Agenda, and be 
energized and focused in our daily efforts. On behalf 
of the International Anti-Corruption Academy and on a 
personal note, I pledge my full support to this Summit 
and to the successful implementation of the SDGs.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the floor to Mr. Elhadj As Sy, Secretary General 
of  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies.
Mr.  As  Sy  (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  On  behalf  of  the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Assembly  for  the 
opportunity to address this historic Summit. The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
is  ambitious,  universal,  holistic  and  more  inclusive. 
We  are  pleased  with  the  emphasis  it  places  on  the 
most  vulnerable  and  marginalized.  We  also  welcome 
38/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
the  strong  focus  on  resilience,  which  recognizes  that 
disasters,  humanitarian  crises  and  global  health 
epidemics  have  the  potential  to  reverse  hard-won 
development  gains.  Those  issues,  as  well  as  those  of 
forced  displacement,  migration,  violence,  peace  and 
human rights and human dignity, must be addressed if 
we are to achieve sustainable development.
An  estimated  250  million  people  are  now  being 
affected  by  humanitarian  crises.  We  are  seeing  an 
increase in the intensity, frequency and unpredictability 
of disasters, often exacerbated by climate change and 
unplanned  urbanization.  Over  the  past  two  years,  we 
have  been  reminded  yet  again  of  the  threat  posed  by 
international  health  emergencies,  which  are  critically 
exacerbated  by  underdeveloped  health  sectors.  Tens 
of millions of people are affected by conflicts that are 
becoming  more  and  more  protracted,  stretching  the 
capacity and imagination of humanitarian organizations. 
There  are  an  estimated  60  million  forcibly  displaced 
people, half of whom are children. That is the highest 
level since the end of the Second World War. In recent 
weeks, we have been at many of the borders in Europe, 
the Middle East and North Africa and have seen at first 
hand the terrible human toll on refugees and a migrant 
crisis that is testing our capacity to respond and, more 
important, our shared humanity in the face of so much 
suffering. If we are to truly leave no one behind, then 
the  new  post-2015  agenda  must  address  the  needs  of 
people affected by humanitarian crises.
The  ambitious  2030  Agenda  must  be  backed  by 
resources and commitments, and not least by financial 
resources.  As  the  World  Bank  and  the  International 
Monetary Fund have said, we must go from billions to 
trillions if we are to have any hope of delivering on the 
promises we are making today. In order to do that, we 
will  have  to  scale  up  our  ambitions  and  diversify  our 
sources of funding. Moreover, more resources must be 
aimed  at  the  local  level,  where  the  needs  are  greatest 
and  services  can  be  delivered  to  the  most  vulnerable 
and  hardest  to  reach.  Through  their  trained  staff  and 
17 million volunteers, the Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies  are  permanently  present  in  communities 
and  work  across  a  continuum  of  development  and 
humanitarian  settings  to  serve  the  most  vulnerable. 
That unparalleled presence is enhanced by the auxiliary 
status that our national societies possess vis-à-vis their 
Governments,  and  is  complemented  by  the  solidarity 
and  universality  of  the  International  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Movement.  Our  Movement  is  uniquely 
and  powerfully  placed 
to  drive  meaningful  and 
sustainable change at the community level by building 
and strengthening resilience.
We are happy to endorse the 2030 Agenda, and our 
network  stands  ready  to  partner  with  Governments, 
United  Nations  agencies,  civil  society,  the  corporate 
sector and, not least, communities themselves in order 
to make this ambition a reality.
Ms.  Jean 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the floor to Ms. Michaëlle Jean, Secretary General 
of the International Organization of la Francophonie.
(International  Organization  of 
la 
Francophonie)  (spoke  in  French):  At  this  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations, 
the year 2015 will go down in history as one of major 
events,  commitments  and  hopes  for  humankind.  In 
March,  in  this  Hall,  we  undertook  a  review  of  the 
commitment made 20 years ago in Beijing at the Fourth 
World Conference on Women to eradicate unjustifiable 
inequalities  between  women  and  men.  In  May,  at 
Incheon,  we  committed  to  ensuring  an  equitable, 
quality  education  and  lifelong  learning  for  all.  In 
July,  at  Addis  Ababa,  we  committed  to  revitalizing 
global  partnerships  and  mobilizing  the  financing  and 
investment needed for development.
The International Organization of la Francophonie 
was represented at all those events and has endorsed all 
the resulting commitments, because with its 80 States 
and Governments, scattered over five continents, it is 
at the centre of every emergency around the globe, all 
the  world’s  inequalities,  terrible  disparities,  security 
crises  and  continuing  and  recurring  bloody  conflicts. 
But it is also at the centre of all that this world has to 
offer  in  terms  of  energy,  achievement,  extraordinary 
diversity  and  an  infinite  capacity  to  make,  produce, 
create, innovate and invent.
So,  yes,  the  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie  is  firmly  committed  to  our  ambitious 
post-2015  development  agenda.  In  order 
to  give 
substance  to  that  new  hope,  we  will  work  with  the 
most vulnerable of our member countries to help them 
take  advantage  of  the  opportunities  presented  by  the 
prospects  of  improved  financing  for  development,  in 
line  with  the  Addis  Ababa  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development, and to support them in 
the sometimes complex process of formulating national 
strategies for sustainable development.
15-29223
39/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
And,  yes,  the  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie will continue to work actively to ensure 
that  in  a  few  weeks’  time  we  reach  an  ambitious 
and  lasting  settlement  in  Paris.  The  work  we  have 
done  with  the  Institute  for  Sustainable  Development 
of  la  Francophonie  to  strengthen  the  capacities  of 
negotiating  teams  from  highly  vulnerable  countries, 
particularly in Africa, is part of that effort. The work 
we have done to ensure that multilingualism is a reality 
in  those  negotiations  will  also  enable  everyone’s 
voice  to  be  genuinely  heard  and  taken  into  account. 
That  is  important,  because  the  fate  of  every  country 
on the planet is at stake. It is an issue of international 
democracy and a principle that we will do everything 
to defend.
The International Organization of la Francophonie 
is committed to all those efforts in an acute awareness 
of  our  interdependence.  There  are  no  more  local 
challenges,  tragedies  or  threats.  We  must  therefore 
respond  to  this  globalization  of  our  problems  by 
globalizing  our  decisions,  solutions,  solidarity  and 
partnerships.  States  have  their  own  responsibility  to 
achieve these goals, and they should be well aware that 
they will have to be more and more accountable to their 
increasingly engaged citizens, civil society and young 
people. And so much the better. 
But  we  also  have  a  collective  responsibility, 
through  international,  regional  and  non-governmental 
organizations  and  private  companies.  Every  effort, 
every repository of knowledge, expertise and financial 
resources  —  and  they  are  important  —  must  make  a 
contribution  to  our  shared  strategies,  with  their  sole 
expected and declared aim being the realization of the 
common  good.  The  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie is committed to those efforts, too, in an 
acute  awareness  of  their  urgency  and  of  the  fact  that 
time is short.
It would be a grave mistake to believe that we have 
15 years in which to get this done, because every day the 
consequences of the inaction, selfishness, indifference 
and  irresponsibility  of  recent  years  are  added  to  the 
goals we have set in 2015. Yes, to the goals we have set 
today we must add the consequences of the conflicts we 
have allowed to metastasize, sometimes after starting 
them,  conflicts  now  seen  in  terms  of  the  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  refugees  they  have  produced  and  the 
kilometres  soaked  with  blood  gained  every  day  by 
terrorist movements seeking lands. Yes, to the goals we 
have set we must add the consequences of the poverty 
to which we have turned a blind eye too long and which 
now includes hundreds of thousands of migrants.
So this is urgent and time is short. We must take 
concrete steps, immediately and now. We should not be 
content to manage these consequences piecemeal. Let 
us act resolutely to tackle their causes. That is the choice 
that the International Organization of la Francophonie 
has  made.  We  want  to  go  faster  and  further.  Besides 
our  work  in  education  and  training  in  the  areas  of 
peace, democracy and human rights, we have adopted 
an  economic  strategy  that,  in  the  spirit  of  the  post-
2015  agenda,  puts  the  emphasis  on  economic  growth 
and  employment,  particularly  for  women  and  young 
people — the women whose contribution to development 
and prosperity is invaluable and indispensable, and the 
young people who in 2030 will make up more than half 
of many countries’ populations and who are so eager to 
work and succeed. All they are asking is to be able to 
regain their hope and confidence. It is for them that we 
are  launching  an  incubation  programme  in  Africa  for 
regionally focused, job-creating businesses.
The fact that this is so urgent means that the more 
of  us  there  are  taking  part  —  countries,  private  and 
institutional  partners,  and  United  Nations  agencies, 
funds and programmes — the better will be our chances 
of  winning  this  race  against  time.  We  must  play  as  a 
team to bring home this and every other victory. We are 
at a crossroads. Whatever actions and decisions we do 
or do not take will have irreversible consequences and 
repercussions for the future of our shared planet. Let us 
prove that we can truly give meaning to our words of 
compassion and humanism and our ambitious, hopeful 
resolutions through a sense of a duty done, because our 
duty begins now.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the floor to Mr. Badre Eddine Allali, Under-Secretary-
General for Social Affairs of the League of Arab States.
Mr.  Allali  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  The  League  of  Arab  States  is  pleased  to 
be  able  to  participate  in  this  historic  Summit  and 
support every effort of its members aimed at achieving 
comprehensive sustainable development. We all suffer 
from  the  effects  of  conflict,  leaving  aside  the  Syrian 
crisis  itself  and  Israel’s  inhumane  practices,  which 
hinder the development and security of the Palestinian 
people.
The League of Arab States commends the General 
Assembly’s  decision  to  raise  the  flag  of  the  State  of 
40/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
Palestine in front of United Nations Headquarters. That 
is an important and major step that will contribute to 
the achievement of our shared goal.
The  League  of  Arab  States,  in  cooperation  with 
its  member  States,  its  specialized  agencies  and  its 
Ministerial Council, started to prepare for the Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  as  early  as  2012.  At  the 
various summits held by the League of Arab States in 
2013,  2014  and  2015,  the  League  adopted  important 
resolutions aimed at setting priorities in the framework 
of this new development Agenda.
Achieving this important Agenda is a demonstration 
of Arab political will at the highest level. We would like 
to thank the United Nations, its specialized agencies, the 
United  Nations  Development  Group  and  the  Regional 
Coordination Mechanism for all of their efforts to help 
forge  an  Arab  position  in  the  negotiations  led  by  the 
Arab Group in cooperation with friendly and brotherly 
groups.
The  League  of  Arab  States  will  continue  to 
coordinate  action  with  its  member  States.  In  March 
2015, the League adopted a decision to hold a ministerial 
conference on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development in the Arab States. This 
is the first such conference to be held at the ministerial 
level with the participation of all ministries concerned. 
It  is  aimed  at  forging  an  Arab  action  plan  aimed  at 
implementing the Agenda, which is considered an Arab 
priority.
The  challenges  facing  us  are  tremendous.  It  is 
important, therefore, to foster international cooperation 
aimed  at  implementing  this  ambitious  plan.  This  will 
witout a doubt have a positive effect on the Arab world. 
We  have  a  strong  focus  on  promoting  the  role  played 
by Arab youth, because they are major contributors to 
achieving development.
In  conclusion,  we  would  once  again  express  our 
heartfelt appreciation to all of those who have taken it 
upon themselves to support sustainable development in 
the Arab world. We wish the Summit every success.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms. Brenda Killen, Deputy Director of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Ms. Killen (Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and  Development):  I  am  very  pleased  to  deliver  this 
statement  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Angel  Gurría,  Secretary-
General of the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD).
It is a privilege to participate in this historic event as 
we chart a more inclusive and sustainable future for all. 
We have set ambitious goals, but they can be achieved. 
We  are  not  starting  from  scratch.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  helped  to  lift  more  than  1  billion 
people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  Now  we  have  agreed 
that in less than 800 weeks we will lift the remaining 
800 million people out of extreme poverty.
It is a job for everyone. The Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) apply to every person in every society, in 
every country, rich or poor.
The  OECD  can  and  will  help  make  progress 
relevant to all people, no matter where they live. Our 
broad  range  of  policy  expertise  and  our  partnerships 
with  more  than  100  countries,  as  well  as  numerous 
non-State  actors,  can  contribute  to  the  achievement 
of  the  SDGs.  Pioneering  OECD  work  on  well-being 
resonates with the vision embodied in the SDGs, going 
beyond  economic  growth  to  look  at  other  essential 
dimensions of progress.
To  achieve  the  SDGs,  we  must  create  synergies 
across  policy  areas  and  reconcile  difficult  policy 
trade-offs.  Nowhere  is  this  more  evident  than  in  our 
efforts  to  tackle  climate  change.  For  too  long,  our 
economies  have  depended  on  fossil  fuels.  This  must 
end, and it must end soon.
Earlier  this  year,  the  OECD  worked  with  the 
International  Energy  Agency,  the  Nuclear  Energy 
Agency and the International Transport Forum to help 
put a comprehensive diagnosis on the table. Our report, 
“Aligning  Policies  for  a  Low-Carbon  Economy”, 
shows  how  policies  in  areas  as  diverse  as  tax,  trade 
and transport are often inconsistent and poorly aligned 
with our climate objectives. This is just one example of 
the  OECD’s  contribution  to  the  global  evidence  base, 
which  must  inform  deliberations  at  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
When  it  comes  to  financing  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  official  development  assistance 
will remain a crucial source of funding for development, 
especially for the poorest and most fragile countries. The 
OECD will continue to shine a spotlight on its members’ 
efforts as they work to fulfil their responsibilities. We 
will hold them to account for the commitments made.
15-29223
41/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
We  will  also  need  far  greater  volumes  of  private 
investment and much smarter investment. The OECD’s 
Policy  Framework  for  Investment  is  already  helping 
more  than  30  developing  and  emerging  economies 
stimulate investment, create jobs, spur innovation and 
link local enterprises with global value chains.
The OECD is supporting the global fight against tax 
evasion and illicit financial flows through the OECD/
Group  of  20  base  erosion  and  profit-shifting  project, 
and  by  working  with  the  126  members  of  the  Global 
Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information 
for  Tax  Purposes  to  increase  transparency  on  tax 
issues. Together with the United Nations Development 
Programme, we are helping to build tax audit capacity 
in developing countries through our joint initiative, Tax 
Inspectors Without Borders.
As  we  look  beyond  financing  to  the  substance  of 
some  of  the  challenges  ahead,  the  OECD  is  already 
actively  engaged  in  the  development  of  a  new  urban 
agenda  in  preparation  for  the  third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Human  Settlements,  next  year.  In  the 
area  of  education,  the  Programme  for  International 
Student  Assessment  (PISA)  is  already  helping  to 
monitor  progress  towards  the  aim  of  ensuring  basic 
skills  for  all  in  more  than  70  countries.  The  OECD’s 
PISA  for  Development  initiative  promises  to  increase 
our understanding of how children learn, teachers teach 
and  school  systems  operate  in  developing  countries, 
making  a  tangible  contribution  to  the  monitoring  and 
achievement of a new education and learning goal. Our 
work  on  water  governance  and  financing  promises  to 
make a tangible contribution to SDG 6.
Far-reaching 
follow-up  and 
review  will  be 
essential  to  incentivize  action  and  learning  around 
the  2030  Agenda.  This  will  depend  on  robust  data 
to  pinpoint  needs  and  capture  progress  at  the  global, 
regional,  national  and  local  levels.  OECD  data  and 
evidence-based  analyses  touch  on  all  of  the  17  goals. 
Meanwhile,  PARIS21,  an  OECD-hosted  partnership, 
is  helping  developing  countries  to  harness  the  data 
revolution.
Partnerships are in the OECD’s DNA. We host and 
support a diversity of partnerships on a vast range of 
topics. Our joint work with the United Nations to support 
the  Global  Partnership  for  Effective  Development 
Cooperation  has  created  a  dynamic  community  of 
practice on development issues, and our Development 
Centre  continues  to  grow,  welcoming  China  as  a 
member earlier this year.
The  international  system  works  best  when  it 
works  together.  We  were  privileged  to  welcome  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon to the OECD earlier this 
year, in the first-ever visit of a serving United Nations 
Secretary-General to the organization. Our partnership 
with  the  United  Nations  family  is  stronger  than  ever 
before.  The  OECD  is  committed  to  working  with  the 
United Nations and for the United Nations.
Looking ahead, countries will need a GPS — a tool 
for piecing together evidence, for triangulating where 
they stand and for guiding them on the journey ahead. 
The  OECD  stands  ready  to  help  design,  build  and 
deliver the instrument that countries need to help turn 
commitments into actions, and to demonstrate tangible 
progress  towards  the  SDGs.  The  OECD’s  range  of 
measurements,  country  assessments  and  peer-review 
and  peer-learning  mechanisms  can  contribute  to  that 
effort,  including  through  the  High-Level  Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development.
The  OECD  exists  to  help  promote  better  policies 
for  better  lives.  The  SDGs  and  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  offer  an  unparalleled 
opportunity to fulfil that purpose, lending support on 
every level to those ambitious but achievable goals. 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Ms. Fang Liu, Secretary General of the International 
Civil Aviation Organization.
Ms.  Fang  Liu  (International  Civil  Aviation 
Authority): It is a tremendous honour for me to address 
this  plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
newly-appointed Secretary General of the International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO).  ICAO  welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). I am certain that it will 
contribute greatly to our common goals and support the 
eradication of poverty in all its forms.
As a United Nations specialized agency established 
70 years ago, ICAO has been mandated to promote the 
development  of  a  safe,  secure  and  sustainable  global 
civil-aviation system, which can greatly help to create 
and  preserve  friendship  and  understanding  among 
the  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world.  ICAO’s  current 
strategic  objectives  are  strongly  linked  to  13  of  the 
17  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda,  demonstrating  our  full 
commitment to their implementation. In that regard, I 
wish to bring to this meeting’s attention the important 
role of aviation as a powerful engine for economic and 
social development throughout the world.
42/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
Air  transport  has  grown  significantly.  It  began 
with  a  flight  of  just  34  kilometres,  but  in  today’s 
world  aircraft  travel  well  over  10  million  times  that 
distance in a single year — the equivalent of travelling 
from  the  Earth  to  Venus.  Today,  aviation  is  by  far 
the  world’s  fastest,  safest  and  most  efficient  mode  of 
mass  transportation.  Aviation  currently  moves  more 
than  half  of  the  1.1  billion  tourists  who  travel  across 
international  borders  each  year,  a  figure  that  rises  to 
over 80 per cent in various small island States. It also 
transports  some  35  per  cent  of  the  world’s  trade  by 
value.  Moreover,  aviation  has  directly  contributed  to 
the creation of 8.5 million jobs and has added around 
$700 billion to the global gross domestic product (GDP). 
Because of its cross-cutting nature and multiple links 
to  other  economic  sectors,  the  total  economic  impact 
of aviation is linked with around 3.5 per cent of world 
GDP, equivalent to $2.4 trillion, and with the creation 
of 55.1 million jobs.
More importantly, aviation can transform lives and 
societies  by  connecting  the  world,  allowing  access  to 
new technologies and opening global markets for rural 
producers. Aviation is also well appreciated for its role 
in  carrying  life-saving  medicines  to  communities  in 
need, in bringing disaster relief and in reducing poverty 
through all of the economic factors that I have already 
outlined.
For  landlocked  developing  countries  and  small 
island developing States especially, aviation represents 
an essential lifeline that enhances connectivity, which 
in turn promotes greater tourism, trade and other vital 
business  activities.  We  may  recall  that  the  economic 
damage  caused  by  the  disruption  of  air  connectivity 
after  the  25  April  earthquake  in  Nepal  has  been 
estimated  at  $1  million  per  day.  A  one-day  shutdown 
of  air  transport  worldwide  would  cost  approximately 
$60 million.
Going 
ICAO  has  been  proactively 
working  with  the  international  community  to  address 
the challenges posed by rapidly expanding air traffic, 
which is now projected to double by 2030. To foster that 
projected growth in a sustainable manner and produce 
inclusive  and  productive  employment,  aviation  must 
have  coherent  policies  with  the  tourism,  trade  and 
other transport sectors to further improve connectivity 
and  modernize  infrastructure.  Those  measures  alone 
could nearly double aviation’s share of global GDP to 
$5.8 trillion by 2030. Upgrading air-traffic systems, for 
forward, 
example,  would  contribute  an  estimated  $300  billion 
per year to the global economy, and at the same time 
would produce significant environmental benefits.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  all 
States  on  the  ground-breaking  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda, and ICAO will continue its support to the new 
initiatives,  in  particular  the  establishment  of  a  global 
infrastructure forum. ICAO has launched a No Country 
Left Behind campaign to better identify and coordinate 
assistance  to  needy  States  so  that  they  can  foster 
sustainable  local  and  regional  prosperity  and  fully 
benefit from the improvement in their air connectivity.
In addition to our strong and ongoing commitment, 
ICAO,  as  an  official  observer  on  the  Inter-Agency 
and  Expert  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
Indicators,  has  proposed  global 
indicators  under 
SDG  Goals  8  and  9.  In  close  cooperation  with  States 
and  international  partners  and  consistent  with  the 
visions of the SDGs and the ICAO’s No Country Left 
Behind  goals,  our  organization  continues  to  lead  the 
development  and  implementation  of  a  coherent  and 
harmonized global regulatory framework for a safe and 
secure air-transport operation.
The  ability  of  the  world  air-transport  network  to 
safely  manage  100,000  daily  flights  to  every  corner 
of the world has always been dependent on upon how 
successfully  States  can  cooperate  to  their  common 
benefit. ICAO is privileged to be able to cooperate with 
States  and  all  of  their  organizations  on  the  adoption 
and  realization  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  Mr.  José  Graziano  da  Silva,  Director-General 
of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations.
Mr. Da Silva (Food and Agriculture Organization 
of  the  United  Nations):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
congratulating 
the  General  Assembly  on  having 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1). We have given ourselves an enormous 
task  that  begins  with  the  historic  commitment  of  not 
only  reducing,  but  also  eradicating,  poverty,  hunger 
and malnutrition in a sustainable way. The new Agenda 
clearly  recognizes  the  centrality  of  food  security, 
nutrition and sustainable agricultural development, but 
the full range of Sustainable Development Goals cannot 
be  achieved  without  rapid  progress  in  eliminating 
15-29223
43/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
hunger  and  malnutrition  by  2030.  We  have  made 
progress over the past 15 years, but we still have many 
challenges ahead.
the  most  comprehensive  plan  of  action  for  global 
development that we have witnessed in the 70 years of 
existence of the United Nations.
The number of hungry people has dropped by more 
than 200 million since 1990, and 73 developing countries 
out of the 120 monitored by the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO)  have  met 
the Millennium Development Goal hunger target. But 
much more needs to be done. Nearly 800 million people 
continue to suffer chronic hunger. That is unacceptable. 
We can rest only when we achieve zero hunger. To do 
so, we must invest and responsibly respond to the needs 
of the world’s poor population, and promote inclusive 
growth. Agricultural and rural development are central 
to  that  effort,  as  over  70  per  cent  of  the  world’s  poor 
and  food-insecure  live  in  rural  areas  of  developing 
countries.
It  is  clear  that  we  need  to  build  more  sustainable 
agricultural  and  food  systems  that  are  resilient  to 
stresses  and  better  able  to  cope  with  and  respond  to 
the  impacts  of  climate  change.  But  let  me  add  that 
investing in sustainable development is crucial, but not 
enough.  Ending  hunger  and  poverty  also  needs  well-
designed social protection systems. The combination of 
productive support and social protection is the only way 
to ensure the food and nutrition security of the poorest 
hungry. The three Rome-based agencies have estimated 
the additional investment needed to end hunger — only 
$160 per year per person living in extreme poverty in 
the next 15 years. This represents less than 0.5 per cent 
of global income in 2014, and it is only a small fraction 
of the cost that hunger and malnutrition impose on our 
societies.
We have an enormous task ahead of us, but one that 
we  can  tackle  successfully  if  we  work  together.  FAO 
has supported the post-2015 development agenda, and 
we  will  continue  to  be  part  of  that  effort,  supporting 
Governments  and  working  with  non-State  actors  to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Now is the 
time to unite our forces to realize the future we want.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on Mr. Mukhisa Kituyi, Secretary-General of the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
Mr. Kituyi (United Nations Conference on Trade 
and  Development):  I  feel  honoured  to  stand  before 
members of the Assembly today at this historic Summit 
on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade 
and  Development  (UNCTAD),  as  we  meet  to  ratify 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  is  a  bold,  inclusive  and  collective 
vision for transforming the world we live in to achieve 
the future we all want. I take great personal satisfaction 
in the fact that the Agenda before us offers a universal 
consensus on dignity for all, a better planet for all, and 
prosperity  for  all.  These  are  all  close  to  the  founding 
vision of the organization I lead.
As  we  all  know,  the  international  community 
functions at its best when the relevant actors complement 
rather than compete with each another. With the historic 
agreement  on  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs), I am pleased that the central role that trade and 
development plays in sustainable development has been 
recognized. I assure everyone that the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development stands ready to 
make a lasting contribution to ending extreme poverty 
and shifting our global economy to a low-carbon future.
We  at  UNCTAD  are  uniquely  appreciative  of  the 
trust that the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda place in our 50 years of expertise and experience. 
The challenge before us now is to turn from decisions 
to  actions,  from  negotiations 
implementation. 
The  role  of  UNCTAD  and  the  entire  United  Nations 
development  system  has  been  strengthened  in  the 
financing  for  development  process  and  with  the  SDG 
means of implementation. At UNCTAD, we are already 
supporting members in preparing to monitor and ensure 
accountability over some 50 SDG targets.
to 
For all of us in the United Nations system, the scale 
at which we operate and the efficiency with which we 
deliver must now achieve new synergies and resonance 
with  the  Agenda  before  us.  Let  us  make  no  mistake 
about  it  —  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  will  require  a  massive  investment  push  over 
the  next  15  to  20  years  into  a  broader  set  of  sectors 
and  industries  than  we  have  ever  seen  undertaken  on 
a  global  scale.  At  UNCTAD,  we  have  calculated  that 
in  developing  countries  alone  there  is  an  unmet  need 
of  $2.5  trillion  annually.  Yet  today,  the  gloomy  state 
of the world economy imperils the chances for such an 
investment  push.  The  slow  pace  of  growth  in  global 
trade  has  us  on  track  for  the  slowest  period  of  trade 
expansion since the end of the Second World War. That 
is  unacceptable  and  incompatible  with  the  enabling 
environment necessary to achieve the SDG targets.
44/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
The  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  will  be  the 
testing ground for the SDGs. The LDCs will make or 
break  the  SDG  Agenda.  If  the  SDGs  are  to  be  met, 
massive needs must be met, particularly in investment 
and infrastructure. That makes it all the more worrisome 
that  the  world  economy  today,  notably  in  emerging 
markets, is in a much more uncertain state than it was 
even six months ago, let alone six years ago, when we 
had begun to hope the worst of the financial crisis was 
behind us.
Growth  in  emerging  economies  is  what  carries 
the  MDGs,  not  just  because  of  poverty  reduction  in 
emerging  markets  themselves,  but  also  because  of 
the sustained commodity boom that it fuels across all 
developing  regions.  Turning  today’s  more  uncertain 
growth  prospects  into  tomorrow’s  SDG  achievements 
raises the bar much higher for all countries, especially 
for the LDCs, precisely at a time when the developing 
world  is  facing  growing  risks  from  market  turmoil, 
human suffering and violent conflict.
But  cooperation  among  peoples  of  all  nations  is 
most important in the darkest hours. It is my belief that 
the SDGs can reinvigorate the ambitions of international 
cooperation,  and  within  our  own  sphere  of  expertise 
UNCTAD will help accomplish that aim. We have the 
tools needed to generate the massive push of investment 
needed  to  leave  no  one  behind  and  to  invigorate  our 
multilateral spirit. And as we now turn to the actions 
needed  to  achieve  the  SDGs,  I  am  confident  that  we 
can  undertake  those  efforts  with  the  same  degree  of 
ambition as we have committed ourselves today.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Ms. Marie-Paule Roudil, Director of the UNESCO 
Liaison Office in New York and Representative to the 
United Nations.
Ms. Roudil (UNESCO) (spoke in French): It is a 
real  honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
on  behalf  of  Ms.  Irina  Bokova,  Director-General  of 
UNESCO.
(spoke in English)
This  is  a  historic  moment.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) charts a new 
course  to  tackle  challenges  facing  all  States.  It  is  the 
result of unprecedented consultation with Governments 
and  civil  society  across  the  world.  It  is  indeed  an 
Agenda of the people, by the people and for the people.
We  have  a  bold  road  map;  now  we  embark  on  a 
great  collective  journey.  To  succeed,  we  must  remain 
guided  by  the  moral  compass  that  has  been  at  the 
heart  of  the  United  Nations  for  70  years.  The  human 
rights  and  dignity  of  every  woman  and  man  are  the 
starting point for all action and the measure of success. 
The  2030  Agenda  was  crafted  using  new  methods; 
its  implementation  must  be  equally  innovative  and 
transformative. To succeed, we must nurture the power 
of  every  development  multiplier,  every  accelerator  of 
inclusion, poverty eradication and sustainability.
We  all  are  called  upon  to  contribute  to  that 
universal  agenda  with  all  means  available.  UNESCO 
is  fully  committed,  through  its  normative  work, 
upstream policy dialogue, capacity-building, inclusive 
partnerships  and  its  field  work.  That  calls  for  new, 
sustained and well-targeted financing, including from 
domestic  sources,  new  and  effective  implementation 
arrangements and new multi-stakeholder partnerships.
That  is  the  importance  of  education,  as  a  human 
right, a force for gender equality and a transformative 
power  for  society.  Sustainable  Development  Goal  4 
sets  out  a  new  framework,  focusing  on  the  quality  of 
education, lifelong learning, skills, teaching, education 
for  sustainable  development  and  global  citizenship. 
Drawing  on  the  Incheon  Declaration,  UNESCO  is 
crafting an education 2030 framework for action to take 
that forward. That is true for science as well. The 2030 
Agenda, with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, calls for 
new efforts to build robust national science, technology 
and  innovation  policies  and  systems  to  facilitate  the 
transfer of technology and solutions — including for the 
sustainable management of water and the ocean — to 
which UNESCO is fully committed.
(spoke in French)
For the first time, the 2030 Agenda acknowledges 
the  power  of  culture  and  cultural  diversity  as  an 
engine  of  sustainable  development.  It  is  a  historic 
opportunity to give life to our main renewable resource 
for  innovation  and  participation  of  peoples.  We  must 
enhance the capacities of countries to collect reliable and 
transparent data in order to understand the mechanisms 
of  development  and  enhance  the  effectiveness  of 
investments.  The  UNESCO  Institute  for  Statistics 
has  valuable  assets  available  to  all.  The  involvement 
of  all  stakeholders  through  free,  independent  and 
pluralistic media must be the guiding principle of the 
implementation  of  the  new  programme.  Freedom  of 
15-29223
45/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
expression,  including  access  and  free  circulation  of 
information  are  a  means  of  improving  governance, 
enhancing  the  rule  of  law  and  promoting  respect  for 
human rights, which leverage sustainability.
The  challenges  are  huge,  but  the  possibilities  are 
equally so. UNESCO is determined to put its all at the 
service of this programme, and believes that education, 
science,  culture,  communication  and 
information 
comprise  the  “soft  power”  that  the  world  needs  to  do 
away  with  poverty  and  build  a  dignified  future  for 
everybody.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms. Jan Beagle, Deputy Executive Director of the Joint 
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
Ms.  Beagle  (Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS): Let us imagine, 15 years from now, a world 
where  every  young  person  has  access  to  high-quality 
secondary education, and where policies and legislation 
for  gender-equality  protect  and  empower  women  and 
girls.  We  have  substantially  increased  the  share  of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix. The poor 
have access to financial services and markets and road-
traffic deaths have been cut in half. The AIDS epidemic 
is over and with it a tremendous tide of suffering and 
loss of life have come to an end. Twenty-eight million 
HIV infections and 21 million AIDS-related deaths have 
been averted, while investment and a robust response 
have accrued $3.2 trillion in economic benefits.
That is the world we have committed to today. Now 
it is our responsibility to support the people on the front 
lines of development with the means of implementation 
to  realize  the  commitments  made.  Fortunately,  we 
have  a  head  start.  From  the  beginning  of  the  AIDS 
epidemic, people living with HIV demanded change on 
a transformative scale. People affected by the epidemic 
rejected the status quo and worked across Governments, 
academia, science, civil society and the private sector 
to  bring  life-saving  medicines  to  people  all  over  the 
world at affordable prices.
the 
international  community 
committed  to  getting  15  million  people  on  HIV 
treatment by 2015. Sceptics said it would be impossible. 
They said that the barriers to progress were too high, 
but they were wrong. That goal was achieved. Between 
2000 and 2014, the world has seen a 35 per cent decrease 
in new HIV infections, and AIDS-related deaths have 
plummeted by 42 per cent. The trajectory of the epidemic 
has been changed. Today we can hold our heads high 
Four  years  ago, 
and say we can keep promises and we can deliver ahead 
of  time  because  every  life  matters.  But  the  job  is  not 
done, and there is no place for complacency.
Today  the  General  Assembly  has  committed  to 
ending  the  AIDS  epidemic  as  a  public-health  threat 
by 2030. Science proves it is achievable. We have the 
tools and knowledge to make it happen. To get there, we 
must fast-track the AIDS response now: strengthening 
combination  prevention  programmes,  tackling  stigma 
and  discrimination  in  all  its  forms,  and  reaching  the 
90-90-90 HIV treatment milestone by 2020. We must 
create a world where all people enjoy their full range 
of civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights. 
Laws,  policies  and  practices  in  all  countries  must 
protect the rights of key populations.
UNAIDS, which is itself a multisectoral partnership, 
is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  first  of  the  United  Nations 
organizations to align its strategy with the SDGs. Next 
month, the UNAIDS Board will adopt a new strategy 
that will build on the knowledge that the journey to end 
AIDS demands integrated action across the economic, 
environmental  and  social  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development, as set out in the SDGs.
That  is  why  UNAIDS  is  a  champion  for  the 
entire  agenda.  The  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly on HIV/AIDS to be held in 2016 will provide 
the opportunity for Member States to recommit at the 
highest  political  level  to  a  robust  AIDS  response  and 
means  for  achieving  SDG  target  3.3.  As  the  global 
community  sets  out  on  this  journey  to  implement  the 
SDGs,  let  us  reinvigorate  the  passion  that  fuelled  the 
AIDS  movement.  Let  us  expand  that  energy  to  ignite 
a  movement  for  social,  economic  and  environmental 
justice that places people at the centre and ensures the 
well-being of all. Nothing less will do. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by Ms. Susan Hopgood, President of 
Education International.
Ms.  Hopgood  (Education  International):  I  am 
proud  to  be  representing  the  world’s  trade  union 
movement  at  this  defining  moment.  The  trade  union 
movement’s very reason for being is to combat and end 
poverty;  reduce  inequalities;  to  achieve  decent  work, 
social  protection  and  women’s  rights;  protect  public 
services  and  infrastructure;  and  improve  fiscal  and 
wage policies. Too often, we have been leading where 
our Governments have fallen short.
46/48 
15-29223
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.6
“Ambitious”, 
“comprehensive” 
and 
“unprecedented”  are  just  a  few  of  the  words  we  have 
heard  describing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs). For example, for the very first time, the world 
is going on record calling for free quality primary and 
secondary education for all, with qualified teachers in a 
safe environment. Future generations will thank us for 
keeping the promises we are making today.
comes 
an 
But  now 
even  more  difficult 
task  —  reaching  those  goals.  Where  the  SDGs  are 
lacking  is  in  the  commitments  to  implementing  the 
goals through financing and progressive public policy, 
as well as a sound accountability framework — deeds, 
not  words.  It  is  obvious  to  us  that  the  current  means 
of  implementation  fall  short.  Commitments  are  not 
real  unless  they  are  binding;  public  interest  is  not 
protected if the private sector has unconditional access 
to public resources. The enabling environment needed 
to achieve the SDGs must include tax justice, including 
progressive  taxation;  strong  public  health,  water  and 
sanitation systems; and free quality education.
We  have  goals  before  us  that  are  designed  for 
consensus,  and  that  is  remarkable.  Let  us  move  very 
quickly to add the structures that will show the world 
that those goals are also designed for success. Decent 
work, social protection and social dialogue are integral 
means and ends to achieving the new Agenda. Social 
dialogue that brings together social partners, employers 
and workers’ organizations is an excellent example of 
ownership  of  policy  processes  at  the  national  level. 
Freedom  of  association  and  the  right  to  collective 
bargaining  are  key  if  the  partnership  is  to  work. 
As  trade  unions,  we  are  committed  to  playing  our 
part.  We  need  Governments  to  step  up  to  fulfil  their 
obligations — deeds, not words.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by Ms. Sylvia Beales, representative 
of HelpAge International.
Ms.  Beales  (HelpAge  International):  I  am  here 
to speak about ageing and older persons. My name is 
Sylvia Beales. I am 60 years old. I work with HelpAge 
International,  a  global  network  in  all  regions  of  the 
world.  Working  together  with  the  Stakeholder  Group 
on Ageing, we represent 800 million older women and 
men worldwide.
We  congratulate 
the  General  Assembly  on 
embedding age in the goals and targets of the post-2015 
agenda.  We  especially  commend  the  pledge  to  leave 
no one behind. We look to the Assembly to ensure that 
those  promises  are  kept.  We  call  on  the  Assembly  to 
count us in. Counting everyone from birth to death and 
reaching the farthest first means embracing all of us, 
young  and  old,  as  partners.  As  Archbishop  Desmond 
Tutu has said: 
“I want to tell the world that I count, that older 
people  everywhere  count,  that  people  of  all  ages 
should be included in the Sustainable Development 
Goals” .
All of us in this Hall and beyond are ageing. We all 
want to age well in safety and with dignity. We want the 
same for our children, so it is right that the SDGs take 
ageing and older persons into account. The speed and 
scale of ageing must be responded to. I offer some facts. 
Today,  two  people  reach  the  age  of  60  every  second. 
Every  three  seconds,  there  is  a  new  case  of  dementia 
in  the  world.  By  2030,  16  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
population  will  be  over  60.  Women  over  50  already 
make up a quarter of the world’s women. Almost 47 per 
cent of those over 65 live with disabilities. Those over 
60  account  for  three-quarters  of  deaths  caused  by 
non-communicable disease.
Even  though  ageing  is  happening  fastest  in  the 
developing  world,  basic  requirements  for  living  well 
in  later  life  do  not  exist.  The  lack  of  regular  income 
blights the lives of millions. Only one in four persons 
has  a  pension  in  middle-  and  low-income  countries, 
and loans for business are denied on the basis of age. 
Older women are invisible victims of appalling abuse 
and violence. They experience the dual impact of age 
and  gender  discrimination.  They  have  less  access  to 
education and health services; they have lower earning 
capacity and restricted access to land ownership.
We older people fear — with reason — poor health, 
illness and poor care. Just two weeks ago, here at the 
United  Nations,  78-year-old  Esther  told  us  about  the 
death of her 75-year-old husband in his wheelchair after 
being  forced  to  wait  for  over  five  hours  in  a  hospital 
queue  to  see  a  doctor.  She  said  that  was  not  unusual, 
and  she  despaired  over  older  people’s  invisibility  and 
exclusion.
Ageing is both an opportunity and a challenge in 
our  ambition  to  leave  no  one  behind.  We  have  a  few 
recommendations for the Assembly.
First, we must recognize that population ageing is 
a success; it is not a burden. It is a triumph of humanity 
15-29223
47/48
A/70/PV.6 
25/09/2015
and of development. We should celebrate ageing, not fear 
it. Secondly, in their national planning, Member States 
should  analyse,  prepare  for  and  invest  in  population 
ageing  and  in  older  people.  Thirdly,  Member  States 
must create and finance programmes that address the 
needs  of  older  persons  and  protect  our  human  rights. 
This  means  ending  age  discrimination,  eradicating 
poverty  in  old  age,  and  ensuring  decent  health  care, 
pensions, opportunities for jobs and life-long learning. 
Fourthly, we would like to see Member States integrate 
us as essential stakeholders in the national, regional and 
global mechanisms set up to implement the sustainable 
development framework.
We call on Member States to invest now and build 
capacity to fill the gaps on missing data. Comparable 
poverty  data  on  old  age  is  missing  for  93  countries, 
especially  those  in  Africa.  Data  sets  that  impose  age 
limits of 49 or 64 years of age are not fit for purpose. 
Those  age  limits  mean  that  violence  against  older 
women goes unrecorded.
Ageism must end now, once and for all. In the words 
of Archbishop Tutu, once again: “As we get older, our 
rights do not change. As we get older, we are no less 
human and should not become invisible.” Please count 
us in.
The meeting rose at 11.20 p.m.
48/48 
15-29223
