United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
29th plenary meeting
Monday, 12 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 114
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(i)  Appointment of the Under-Secretary-General 
for Internal Oversight Services
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/388)
The President: Members will recall that the General 
Assembly, in its resolution 48/218 B, of 29 July 1994, 
decided  to  establish  the  Office  of  Internal  Oversight 
Services, under the authority of the Secretary-General, 
the  head  of  which  would  be  at  the  rank  of  Under-
Secretary-General.
that 
investigations,  management, 
the  Under-Secretary-General 
By  the  same  resolution,  the  Assembly  further 
decided 
for 
Internal  Oversight  Services  should  be  an  expert  in 
the  fields  of  accounting,  auditing,  financial  analysis 
and 
law  or  public 
administration.  That  official  should  be  appointed  by 
the  Secretary-General,  following  consultations  with 
Member States, and approved by the General Assembly. 
For that purpose, the Secretary-General should appoint 
the  Under-Secretary-General  for  Internal  Oversight 
Services with due regard for geographic rotation and, in 
doing so shall be guided by the provisions of paragraph 
3 (e) of resolution 46/232, of 2 March 1992, whereby the 
Assembly decided in particular that, as a general rule, 
no national of a Member State shall succeed a national 
of that State in a senior post and that there should be 
no monopoly on senior posts by nationals of any State 
or  group  of  States.  The  official  should  serve  for  one 
fixed term of five years without possibility of renewal 
and may be removed by the Secretary-General only for 
cause and with the approval of the General Assembly.
In the light of the provisions of resolution 48/218 B, 
the  Secretary-General  proposes  to  appoint  Ms.  Heidi 
Mendoza  as  Under-Secretary-General  for  Internal 
Oversight  Services  for  one  fixed  term  of  five  years, 
beginning  on  15  November  2015  and  ending  on 
14 November 2020.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to approve that appointment?
It was so decided.
Mr. Thöresson (Sweden): I have the honour today 
to speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries, namely, 
Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway  and  my  own 
country, Sweden.
The  Nordic  countries  warmly  welcome 
the 
appointment of Ms. Heidi Mendoza as Under-Secretary-
General for Internal Oversight Services. We would like 
to congratulate her on her new functions, and we look 
forward to working closely with Ms. Mendoza over the 
coming five years.
The  Nordic  countries  attach  great  importance  to 
the  oversight  functions  at  the  United  Nations.  Those 
functions are crucial to the whole United Nations system 
and  to  the  Member  States  in  ensuring  an  efficient, 
effective, transparent and accountable United Nations. 
Over  the  past  few  months,  we  have  been  concerned 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-30802 (E)
*1530802*
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
by  the  negative  attention  that  the  Office  for  Internal 
Oversight  Services  has  attracted  as  a  result  of  the 
United Nations handling of the situation in the Central 
African Republic. Independence and transparency are 
prerequisites  for  effective  oversight.  An  operationally 
independent  Office  for  Internal  Oversight  Services  is 
key  to  fulfilling  the  many  important  tasks  assigned 
to  the  Office  as  well  as  to  rebuilding  the  confidence 
among  Member  States  that  the  Office  can  play  a  role 
in  protecting  the  integrity  of  the  United  Nations  and 
promoting accountability within the Organization.
On  the  eve  of  the  United  Nations  seventieth 
anniversary,  and  with  several  large  transformative 
reform  initiatives  on  the  table,  the  importance  of 
oversight  cannot  be  overestimated.  The  Nordic 
countries are confident that Ms. Mendoza will lead the 
Office for Internal Oversight Services effectively and 
efficiently through these important times at the United 
Nations, and she can count on our full support in that 
endeavour.
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
welcomes  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  Ms.  Heidi  Mendoza  as  Under-Secretary-General 
for  Internal  Oversight  Services.  We  would  like  to 
express  our  deep  appreciation  for  the  endorsement  of 
that  appointment  by  the  regional  groups  and  for  the 
affirmation it received today from Member States. It is 
a great honour for the Philippines that a highly qualified 
woman from the developing world has been chosen to 
serve  in  a  senior  position  in  the  United  Nations.  We 
are fully confident that she will serve with the highest 
standards of efficiency, competence and integrity and 
will continue the good work of her predecessor in the 
Office  for  Internal  Oversight  Services,  Ms.  Carman 
Lapointe.
Ms. Mendoza will leave her post as Commissioner 
in  the  Philippine  Commission  of  Audit,  where  she 
has  served  for  over  20  years  in  the  areas  of  audit, 
investigation, fraud examination and good governance. 
Her  vast  experience  as  Chairperson  of  the  Audit 
Committee  of  the  Public  Sector  Standards  Board 
and  External  Auditor  for  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, the World Health 
Organization and the International Labour Organization 
renders  her  most  able  to  take  on  that  important  new 
portfolio.
Her  qualifications  and  wealth  of  experience, 
coupled  with  her  commitment  to  excellence  and 
integrity,  make  her  a  wise  choice  for  the  job.  Those 
qualifications are crucial at this juncture in the history 
of the United Nations, which is celebrating its seventieth 
anniversary, moving forward with the ambitious 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
and pursuing a platform for reforms in various fields of 
United Nations work.
Good  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  effective, 
accountable  and  transparent  institutions  within  the 
United  Nations  itself  are  necessary  for  ensuring  that 
the United Nations continues to be a credible champion 
in the global fight against corruption and achieves its 
lofty goals. We are fully confident that Ms. Mendoza 
will  live  up  to  those  challenges  as  she  steps  into  the 
role of assisting the Secretary-General in fulfilling the 
oversight  responsibilities  over  the  resources  and  staff 
of the Organization through internal audit, monitoring, 
inspection, evaluation and investigation services.
Ms.  Coleman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Heidi 
Mendoza  as  the  next  Under-Secretary-General  for 
Internal  Oversight  Services.  We  extend  our  warm 
congratulations  to  her  and  take  this  opportunity  to 
underscore  the  importance  of  the  Office  for  Internal 
Oversight Services (OIOS) and its independent role in 
providing  critical  oversight  over  the  United  Nations. 
The  United  States  is  committed  to  ensuring  a  strong 
OIOS  that  is  able  to  carry  out  robust  audits  and 
effective  investigations  to  ferret  out  waste,  fraud  and 
corruption. The Office must have the ability to conduct 
performance  evaluations  of  key  programmes,  thereby 
enabling  management  and  Member  States  to  ensure 
effective use of resources. We look forward to working 
with Ms. Mendoza and engaging with Member States to 
strengthen OIOS.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (i)  of  agenda 
item 114.
Agenda item 138
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Draft resolution (A/70/416)
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  the  draft  resolution  recommended  by  the 
Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report.
The Fifth Committee adopted the draft resolution, 
entitled  “Scale  of  assessments  for  the  apportionment 
2/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
of the expenses of the United Nations: requests under 
Article 19 of the Charter”, without a vote. May I take it 
that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 70/2).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 138.
Agenda item 122
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70357)
Identical letters dated 17 June 2015 from the 
Secretary-General addressed to the President 
of the General Assembly and the President of 
the Security Council (A/70/95)
The  President:  Peace  operations  are  the  heart 
of  the  United  Nations  global  engagement.  They  are 
among the major innovations since the inception of the 
United  Nations  that  have  enabled  the  Organization  to 
better fulfil its mandate and have contributed to peace 
and  security  in  our  world.  But  peace  operations,  like 
any tool, are in constant need of refinement. Evolving 
challenges  and  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security  make  it  necessary  for  the  United  Nations  to 
strengthen  its  role,  capacity,  efficiency  and,  more 
particularly, the effectiveness of its field operations.
Today’s  debate  is  both  necessary  and  timely.  The 
dramatic global refugee crisis and other humanitarian 
and  ongoing  security  crises  demonstrate  just  how 
complex  today’s  conflicts  have  become.  In  the  light 
of  those  new  realities,  we  must  review  our  practices 
and 
instruments,  how  we  approach  policy  and 
operational  questions  and  how  we  address  budgetary 
and  management  issues.  I  therefore  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  having  taken  the  initiative  to 
launch this review. The High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations consulted rigorously, and its work 
resulted  in  a  number  of  concrete  recommendations. 
Subsequently,  Member  States  have  received 
the 
Secretary-General’s implementation report (A/70/357).
Having examined those important contributions, it 
is now up to the membership to consider how that key 
initiative  can  be  transformed  into  concrete  steps  that 
will  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  peace  operations 
can  adequately  respond  to  our  changing  world.  That 
is  a  unique  opportunity  and,  at  the  end  of  today’s 
debate, I will return to the question of how best to offer 
procedural clarity on the next steps. It is of course also 
worth  bearing  in  mind  that  that  review  of  the  United 
Nations  peace  operations  is  complemented  by  the 
10-year  review  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture and a global study on the implementation 
of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women 
and peace and security. An effort to ensure the synergy 
and  coherence  generated  by  those  three  reviews  will 
promote a holistic reflection on matters that are clearly 
interconnected. Facts on the ground, including threats 
to global security, such as epidemics, violent extremism 
and proliferation, among others, are powerful evidence 
that  a  comprehensive  and  more  integrated  approach 
to  peace  and  security  is  urgently  needed.  On  10  and 
11 May 2016, I will convene a high-level thematic debate 
in order to advance synergies generated by those three 
reviews.  The  participation  of  Member  States  and  all 
stakeholders in the preparations for that debate, in the 
event itself and in its possible follow-up will be crucial. 
We have a common interest to have a United Nations 
that is truly equipped to translate the objectives of the 
Charter of the United Nations into concrete reality, and 
a shared responsibility to make that happen.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon to start the discussion.
The  Secretary-General:  I  thank  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  bringing  us  together  for  a 
particularly timely debate on how to best to strengthen 
United Nations peace operations.
In  recent  years,  all  of  us  have  grown  deeply 
concerned about the escalating challenges confronting 
United  Nations  peace  operations,  both  peacekeeping 
and  special  political  missions.  One  year  ago  today,  I 
appointed  a  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace 
Operations to assess our operations and suggest ways to 
meet those tests. President José Ramos-Horta of Timor-
Leste, with wide-ranging national and United Nations 
experience,  was  uniquely  suited  to  lead  that  effort. 
Ms. Ameerah Haq, who has served as Under-Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations  and  as  Vice-Chair 
of  the  Panel,  has  also  had  extensive  exposure  to  the 
realities  that  the  United  Nations  faces  in  the  field.  I 
am very pleased that both are with us today. The task 
was ambitious and the timing was short, yet the Panel 
delivered its report, entitled “Report of the High-level 
Independent Panel on Peace Operations on uniting our 
strengths  for  peace:  politics,  partnership  and  people” 
(see A/70/95). The Panel’s report is wise and bold and 
reflects  the  results  of  consultations  with  the  diverse 
stakeholders in every region of the world. I thank the 
15-30802
3/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
Panel for its outstanding service on behalf of all those 
around the world living under the threat or the reality 
of conflict.
Last  month,  I  submitted  to  Member  States  my 
implementation report (A/70/357). It conveys my strong 
support for the Panel’s recommendations and identifies 
those  areas  where  I  believe  we  can  move  forward 
immediately. My report calls for the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  to  consider  a  number  of 
important recommendations directed at Member States 
and which I fully endorse. It deliberately leaves some 
of  the  structural  proposals  to  my  successor,  but  I 
wholeheartedly  support  the  need  for  those  changes  to 
be given serious consideration.
United  Nations  peace  operations  are  a  global 
instrument. Making them fit for purpose is a collective 
responsibility. I hope that today will mark the start of 
early and concerted efforts to strengthen a set of vital 
tools  at  this  time  when  they  are  most  in  need.  The 
historic adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
last month, underscores a long-standing truth — there 
will be no peace without development, no development 
without peace, and neither without respect for human 
rights.
The case for renewed investment in United Nations 
peace operations is urgent and clear. We are living in 
a  time  of  global  turmoil.  Large-scale  conflicts  have 
tripled  since  2008.  More  than  60  million  people  have 
been  forcibly  displaced,  the  most  since  the  Second 
World  War.  Violent  extremism  is  on  the  rise.  I  fully 
endorse the Panel’s call for a focus on politics, people 
and  partnership.  United  Nations  peace  operations  are 
political tools. Their objective is to pursue and sustain 
negotiated political settlements. They cannot substitute 
for a clear political strategy to bring an end to conflict. 
Nor  should  they  be  used  to  give  the  appearance  of 
action,  or  given  mandates  without  the  means.  Peace 
operations  must  be  used  responsibly.  United  Nations 
peace  operations  must  be  judged  by  their  impact  on 
people. They must make every effort to protect civilians 
and  defend  the  rights  of  people  in  conflict.  And  they 
must never abuse that trust.
The United Nations cannot tackle today’s challenges 
alone.  We  must  strengthen  partnerships  to  meet  the 
growing complexity of conflicts. In my implementation 
report I set out an agenda for action to translate those 
priorities into concrete steps over the next 18 months.
First,  we  need  to  bring  prevention  and  mediation 
to  the  centre  of  our  efforts  to  promote  international 
peace and security. Early action saves lives and money. 
Effective prevention and mediation keep politics at the 
fore. As the toll of human lives rises and humanitarian 
needs and costs escalate dramatically, I am calling for a 
concerted prevention agenda that makes greater use of 
the full range of tools, including my good offices.
Secondly, we need to change the way we plan and 
conduct United Nations peace operations. We need to 
become faster and more agile in limiting the spread of 
violence and seizing opportunities to resolve a conflict. 
We  need  to  move  away  from  template-determined 
approaches to a more targeted approach with mandates 
tailored  to  specific  demands  on  the  ground.  We  need 
a  shared  understanding  of  the  tasks  involved  so  as  to 
strengthen coordination between the Security Council 
and troop- and police-contributing countries. And we 
need to work hand in hand with national actors and local 
communities. We also need capabilities, uniformed and 
civilian, that can deploy quickly and operate effectively 
in  challenging  environments.  We  must  ensure 
that  administrative  procedures  are  systematically 
configured  to  support  dynamic  field  environments. 
I  thank  those  Member  States  that  came  forward  with 
their  commitments  of  scarce  and  valuable  resources 
at  the  summit  on  United  Nations  peacekeeping  held 
on 28 September. That is a significant step forward in 
equipping  United  Nations  peace  operations  for  today 
and tomorrow.
United Nations personnel, civilian and uniformed, 
must  always  uphold  the  highest  standards  of  conduct 
and  be  held  accountable  when  they  do  not  do  so.  It 
is  shameful  that  that  has  not  always  been  the  case. 
We  must  work  together  to  eliminate  the  scourge  of 
sexual  exploitation  and  abuse,  which  tarnishes  the 
reputation of the United Nations and detracts from the 
contributions  of  so  many  brave  men  and  women.  We 
must  also  do  everything  in  our  power  to  enhance  the 
safety and security of our personnel. Those courageous 
men and women often work in difficult and dangerous 
conditions  to  help  make  the  world  a  better  place.  We 
should do our utmost to keep them safe.
Thirdly,  we  need  stronger  and  more  partnerships. 
Effective  peace  operations  are 
in  which 
multiple  actors  —  United  Nations  bodies,  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries,  regional  organizations, 
host  countries  and  others  —  pull  together  and  take 
those 
4/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
advantage  of  each  other’s  strengths.  Each  partnership 
will be distinct, thus reflecting the overall strategy and 
specific demands.
Mr.  Halfaoui  (Morocco):  I  have  the  honour  of 
delivering this statement on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries (NAM).
In  our  partnerships  with  regional  organizations, 
we  will  aim  to  prioritize  standing  arrangements  for 
early  consultation  and  rapid  response, 
including 
bridging arrangements. The African Union is bearing 
an  increasingly  heavy  burden,  along  with  several  of 
the  continent’s  subregional  organizations.  It  is  time 
to  take  United  Nations-African  Union  ties  to  a  new 
level,  including  through  predictable  and  sustainable 
financing for African Union peace operations. We must 
also deepen our ties with the European Union and other 
organizations that can contribute.
United  Nations  peace  operations  are  an  essential 
tool,  but  they  are  not  the  only  international  tool.  I 
welcome  the  ongoing  intergovernmental  reviews  on 
peacebuilding  and  on  the  implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women  and  peace 
and  security.  My  report  has  drawn  on  those  reviews 
and identified the links among them. There is far more 
we  can  do  to  sustain  peace  and  help  post-conflict 
societies  avoid  a  relapse  into  violent  conflict.  And 
despite  important  gains  in  advancing  the  women  and 
peace  and  security  agenda,  we  have  still  not  done 
enough to involve women in peace processes and other 
decision-making processes.
The  coming  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  to 
be held in Istanbul in May 2016, is a further piece of 
the  picture.  That  will  be  an  opportunity  to  reinforce 
our  common  endeavour  to  save  lives  and  prevent  and 
alleviate  suffering.  Taken  together,  those  efforts  can 
enable  us  to  renew  the  instruments  available  to  the 
United Nations.
We  do  not  have  many  opportunities  to  reform 
United  Nations  peace  operations  comprehensively. 
The last major effort of that kind was 15 years ago. Yet 
we  all  understand  how  much  the  world  has  changed 
since that time. It is essential that we act urgently and 
collectively  and  not  wait,  as  in  the  past,  for  crisis  or 
tragedy  to  propel  reform.  I  stand  ready  to  work  with 
Member States in the months ahead.
I thank members for their presence here today. Let 
our actions speak louder than our words on behalf of the 
people around the world who look to us for leadership 
and support.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
I thank the President of the General Assembly for 
his initiative, the Secretary-General for the presentation 
of  his  report  (A/70/357)  and  the  Chair  of  the  High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  and  its 
members for their comprehensive report (see A/70/95).
As the group representing 90 per cent of the troop-
contributing countries, the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries  has  a  clear  and  well-known  position  on  all 
aspects  of  peacekeeping,  which  I  will  not  reiterate  at 
this stage. I will focus my intervention on the following 
points.
The Movement is of the view that both the report of 
the High-level Panel and that of the Secretary-General 
should  be  studied  carefully,  as  they  will  enable  us  to 
cover all critical aspects of peace operations.
On  the  procedural  front,  NAM  reiterates  that  the 
development of concepts, policies and strategies should 
be  part  of  an  intergovernmental  process  and  that  the 
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations is the 
sole body in charge of policymaking in peacekeeping. 
Therefore, all recommendations relating to peacekeeping 
should  be  addressed  to  the  Special  Committee.  In 
that  connection,  recommendations  relating  to  special 
political  missions  should  be  addressed  to  the  Fourth 
Committee,  and  those  with  financial  implications 
should be addressed to the Fifth Committee.
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  that 
NAM  is  following  the  review  process  closely  and 
will  engage  constructively  with  the  Secretariat  and 
the  relevant  bodies  of  the  United  Nations.  However, 
in  order  to  ensure  a  successful  interaction  among  all 
of the relevant stakeholders, transparency, clarity and 
information-sharing are essential.
The President: I now give the floor to the former 
Head of Delegation of the European Union to the United 
Nations.
Mr. Mayr-Harting (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  Montenegro, 
Serbia and Albania; the country of the Stabilization and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of Moldova and 
Armenia, align themselves with this statement.
15-30802
5/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
Let  me  first  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  (A/70/357),  which  gives  us  a  valuable  and 
comprehensive picture of the state of play with regard to 
peace operations today and the challenges that we need 
to address collectively. We are grateful for the work done 
by the Secretariat and by the High-Level Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations,  led  by  President  Ramos-
Horta. It is a pleasure for me to welcome both him and 
the members of his Panel here today. We equally value 
the consultative approach that underpinned the process.
In  adopting  the  2030  Agenda  on  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  the  General  Assembly 
agreed on a development framework that will ultimately 
contribute to global stability. The link between security 
and  development  is  unquestionable.  We  very  much 
welcome  the  inclusion  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 16, on peaceful societies, in the 2030 Agenda. The 
security-development-human rights nexus is critical to 
achieving long-lasting stability, and in that sense, the 
global 2030 Agenda and the global peace and security 
agenda cannot be separated.
in  recent  years.  The  report  of 
The  global  security  environment  has  changed 
dramatically 
the 
Secretary-General  clearly  identifies  the  challenges 
that  need  to  be  tackled.  That  can  be  done  only  in  a 
truly  global  partnership,  as  the  Secretary-General 
has  just  underlined.  We  are  happy  to  attest  that  the 
European  Union  and  the  United  Nations  enjoy  such  a 
partnership. We have recently identified joint priority 
areas  for  strengthening 
the  strategic  partnership 
between the United Nations and the European Union on 
peacekeeping and crisis management up to 2018.
At  the  same  time,  we  are  encouraged  by  the 
opportunities  provided  by  the  review  of  the  United 
Nations  peace  and  security  architecture.  Business  as 
usual is no longer an option. With the imminent release 
of the global study on the implementation of Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and  the  launch  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  peacebuilding 
architecture,  we  now  have  all  the  three  building 
blocks  needed  for  efforts  to  enhance  United  Nations 
effectiveness  in  the  global  security  environment. 
The  outcome  of  the  ongoing  reviews  should  be  bold 
in  ambition  and  propose  concrete  steps  to  enhance 
effectiveness. No one reform should be undertaken in 
isolation  from  the  others.  The  search  for  coherence, 
synergies and complementarities among those reviews 
should guide our work ahead.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
the  future  of  United  Nations  peace  operations.  Many 
of the suggestions of the High-level Independent Panel 
have been picked up and further developed. Key issues 
that  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States  have 
identified have found a place in the Secretary-General’s 
report,  such  as  the  need  for  coherence,  for  linking 
development and security efforts, for making use of the 
full  spectrum  of  responses,  for  placing  the  protection 
of civilians up front, for mainstreaming gender aspects 
throughout  and  for  better  and  more  clearly  defined 
mandates  and  transition  arrangements.  Allow  me  to 
reflect on some of those aspects.
First,  we  fully  support  the  notion  that  the  full 
spectrum  of  peace  operations  should  be  used  in  a 
continuum  of  responses.  We  encourage  all  within  the 
Secretariat to work collaboratively to ensure a coherent 
response.
Secondly, even the most successful peace operations 
cannot be a substitute for political processes. Prevention 
and  mediation,  making  full  use  of  the  Secretary-
General’s good offices, the early deployment of United 
Nations  special  political  missions,  United  Nations 
regional  and  bilateral  peacebuilding  and  mediation 
tools and public diplomacy must become a priority. That 
would show that the global system is intent on reducing 
armed conflict. Likewise, consolidating peacebuilding 
efforts  must  be  on  the  agenda  throughout,  and  the 
peacebuilding agenda must be fully synchronized with 
peacekeeping  efforts.  Wider  peacebuilding  activities 
must be given the means to be effective.
Thirdly, 
the  protection  of  civilians  and 
the 
prevention of atrocity crimes must be at the core of any 
peace operation’s mandate. We welcome the emphasis 
on a regular assessment of the mission’s political and 
protection  effect,  the  extent  to  which  the  mission  has 
the capabilities to fulfil its protection mandate and the 
additional political and practical support required.
Crucially,  the  protected  must  not  be  harmed  by 
those meant to protect them. We welcome the Secretary-
General’s emphasis on increased accountability and his 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  system’s  ability  to  deal  with 
sexual exploitation and abuse swiftly and decisively.
factor 
in 
protecting  civilians.  We  welcome  the  suggestion  for 
mission-wide  strategies  and  guidance  to  engage  with 
the local populations. Similarly, corruption should also 
be recognized as a driver of conflict and instability.
Local  ownership 
is  an 
important 
6/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
Fourthly,  we  are  committed  to  advancing  the 
women and peace and security agenda, both internally 
and  in  relations  with  third  countries.  The  focus  on 
gender mainstreaming in mission settings is welcome, 
as  is  the  intention  to  strengthen  gender  expertise  in 
missions.
Fifthly, United Nations peace operations need to be 
equipped with clear, coherent and achievable mandates 
that include a strong human rights component. Adequate 
resources  needed  for  peace  operations,  including 
special  political  missions,  should  be  ensured  so  that 
they  can  deliver  on  their  mandated  tasks.  Operations 
should make the most efficient use of human, political 
and financial resources.
We  are  keen  to  understand  better  the  benefits  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  that  the  dedicated 
capacities  for  child  protection  and  conflict-related 
sexual violence should cease to exist as separate entities 
in peace operations and should instead be consolidated 
within the human rights components of missions. The 
European  Union  attaches  great  importance  to  those 
special  protection  mandates,  and  changes  in  mission 
structures  should  not  curtail  missions’  ability  to 
effectively protect women and children in situations of 
armed conflict.
In 
the 
light  of 
the  complex  and  dangerous 
environments  in  which  such  missions  are  operating, 
we  underline  the  important  role  of  information  and 
intelligence  for  delivery  on  mandates  and  personnel 
protection. We support efforts by the United Nations to 
further develop those capacities for current and future 
missions.
Finally,  we  welcome  the  reference  to  reinforcing 
global-regional  partnerships.  As  stated  earlier,  our 
two  organizations  recently  agreed  to  cooperate  more 
deeply on topics of mutual interest, ranging from rapid 
response  to  facilitating  the  contribution  of  European 
Union member States to United Nations peacekeeping, 
security-sector  reform,  mutual  support  and  enhanced 
information exchange.
We also conduct missions and operations in support 
of  United  Nations  objectives  and  United  Nations 
peacekeeping across the world. Currently, 17 European 
Union  crisis  missions  are  deployed,  of  which  6  are 
military and 11 civilian. They allow for burden-sharing 
and  support  for  United  Nations  activities,  notably  in 
Mali,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Somalia  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  well  as  in  the 
Balkans.
We  also  remain  committed  to  giving  full  support 
to Africa’s efforts to manage its own security. I would 
also  underline  that  fact  in  response  to  the  comments 
made  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  presentation. 
The  European  Union  has  agreed  to  increase  funding 
for  its  African  Peace  Facility  from  €750  million  to 
€900 million for the period 2014-2016.
The  role  of  regional  organizations  within  United 
Nations-led  interventions  could  be  better  defined, 
whether  it  entails  facilitating  rapid  deployment  when 
appropriate, acting as a complement to United Nations 
operations  or  being  deployed  in  a  bridging  capacity 
gaps.
Let me conclude by reiterating our commitment to 
a strong global order and to an effective United Nations. 
More than ever, Europe is ready to play its part. Those 
words — “more than ever, Europe is ready to play its 
part” — are probably the last words I have the honour 
to pronounce in my capacity as Head of Delegation of 
the  European  Union  in  the  Assembly,  and  I  am  very 
pleased that it was precisely those words.
Mr.  Koroma  (Sierra  Leone):  Let  me  by  thanking 
you, Mr. President, for giving me the floor to make a 
statement on behalf of the Group of African States.
The African Group holds in high regard the report of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations 
(see  A/70/95).  That  is  understandable,  given  the  fact 
that a high proportion of United Nations peacekeeping 
operations  are  concentrated  in  Africa.  It  is  for  that 
reason  that  Africa  has  taken  the  High-level  Panel’s 
work very seriously. We acknowledge the great length 
to which the Panel went to consult with Member States, 
regional and subregional bodies and other stakeholders. 
The  common  African  position  on  the  United  Nations 
review  of  peace  operations  was  adopted  by  the  Peace 
and Security Council of the African Union at its five 
hundred and second meeting, held on 29 April, in which 
Africa as a region articulated its position regarding the 
work of the Panel.
Having reviewed the High-level Panel’s report, we 
wish  to  underscore  that  it  provides  a  comprehensive 
approach to strategic and operational aspects of peace 
operations.  In  that  respect,  we  welcome  the  four 
strategic  shifts  identified  in  the  report  that  would  be 
required so as to enable the international community to 
15-30802
7/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
successfully adapt to the changing nature of conflict, 
namely, the need for a political approach, the need to 
view peace operations as encompassing a continuum of 
options ranging from the appointment of special envoys 
to the deployment of peacekeeping operations, the need 
to  forge  partnerships  with  regional  organizations  in 
order  to  exploit  fully  the  comparative  advantages  of 
each organization, and the need to adopt a field-focused 
and people-centred approach.
We wish to express our deepest appreciation to the 
High-level  Panel  for  taking  into  account  many  of  the 
views  expressed  in  the  African  common  position,  as 
transmitted to the United Nations for the consideration 
of the Panel in the preparation of its report.
We  wish 
in  particular 
to  emphasize, 
first 
of  all,  that  the  core  principles  of  peacekeeping 
operations — consent, impartiality and the limited use 
of force — remain relevant but need to be interpreted 
with  flexibility  in  the  face  of  the  new,  emerging 
challenges to peacekeeping.
Secondly, conflict prevention and mediation should 
be given paramount importance; hence the primacy of 
political solutions.
Thirdly, partnerships with regional and subregional 
organizations are key to operating in future in order to 
be  able  to  address  some  of  the  constraints  facing  the 
United Nations. The legislative basis for partnership lies 
in Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Fourthly,  the  strategic  partnership  that  has  been 
forged with the African Union should be identified as 
a template for the relations of the United Nations with 
regional organizations generally.
And,  fifthly,  in  the  light  of  the  slow  deployment 
of forces into the field, the United Nations should bear 
in mind the capacities being developed by the African 
Union  to  speed  up  the  deployment  of  peacekeeping 
operations.
We wish to express support for the principles that 
should underpin that partnership, namely, consultative 
decision-making,  a  division  of 
labour  based  on 
respective  comparative  advantages,  joint  analysis, 
planning,  monitoring  and  evaluation,  an  integrated 
response to the full conflict-cycle, including prevention 
transparency,  accountability  and  respect  for 
and 
international  standards, 
the 
principles  endorsed  in  the  African  common  position 
in  consonance  with 
and other documents relating to the partnership between 
the United Nations and the African Union.
We  express  our  particular  appreciation  to  the 
High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations for 
its  resuscitation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Prodi 
report (see A/63/666), entitled “Report of the African 
Union  on  the  African  Union-United  Nations  panel  on 
modalities  for  support  to  African  Union  operations”, 
with  regard  to  the  founding  of  the  Security  Council-
authorized African Union-led peace support operations.
We  acknowledge  that  the  recommendation  made 
by the High-level Panel for the use of United Nations 
assessed  contributions  on  a  case-by-case  basis, 
including  the  costs  associated  with  the  deployment 
of  uniformed  personnel,  marks  a  significant  step.  We 
therefore  urge  that  that  proposal  be  endorsed  by  the 
United  Nations  decision-making  organs,  and  we  hold 
ourselves  ready  to  follow  up  on  that  recommendation 
with  the  relevant  organs,  committees  and  interested 
parties within the United Nations.
the  High-level 
We  also  take  note  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  entitled  “The  future  of  United  Nations  peace 
operations:  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
of 
Independent  Panel  on  Peace 
Operations” (A/70/357). We are willing to engage with 
the  Secretariat  on  how  to  implement  the  important 
recommendations  made  by 
the  High-level  Panel, 
including  the  lessons  learned  in  the  transitions  from 
African  Union  peacekeeping  operations  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations in the Central African 
Republic and Mali.
the 
We 
take  particular  note  of 
following 
recommendations.  First,  there  is  the  conduct  of  the 
lessons-learned  exercise  aimed  at  reviewing  and 
assessing the various mechanisms available to improve 
the  predictability,  sustainability  and  flexibility  of  the 
financing for African Union peacekeeping operations, 
authorized by the Security Council. Secondly, there is 
the joint identification of context-specific benchmarks 
that  could  be  used  to  determine  the  conditions  under 
which  a  transition  should  take  place,  given  the  needs 
in the country and the situation on the ground. Thirdly, 
there  is  the  development  of  a  creative  and  flexible 
transition  tool  box,  embodying  a  common  vision  that 
the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  would 
employ, when and where appropriate, to inform future 
transition processes.
8/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
We  once  again  express  appreciation 
the 
Secretary-General for his wisdom in establishing such 
a high-profile panel with the requisite mandate.
to 
Ms. Bird (Australia): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the group of countries made 
up of Canada, Australia, and New Zealand (CANZ).
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  candid 
assessment  of  the  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  the 
United  Nations  peace  operations  architecture.  Let 
me  also  acknowledge  today  the  presence  of  President 
Ramos-Horta,  Ms.  Ameerah  Haq  and  other  members 
of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peacekeeping 
Operations, and to thank them for their excellent work.
As the peace operations review report (see A/70/95) 
makes clear, the nature of global conflict has changed. 
United  Nations  peace  operations  are  operating  in 
increasingly  difficult  environments  and  must  adapt 
to  meet  those  new  challenges,  with  the  protection  of 
civilians remaining the core priority. The CANZ group 
agrees  with  the  Secretary-General’s  assertion  that 
political  solutions  must  be  paramount  in  the  design 
of  peace  operations.  Comprehensive  approaches  that 
utilize all of the United Nations conflict prevention and 
resolution  tools  are  needed  if  political  solutions  and 
sustainable peace are to be achieved. The recent leaders 
summit  on  peacekeeping  has  provided  much-needed 
focus on, and new commitments aimed at, the enhanced 
capability of United Nations peace operations.
The CANZ group strongly supports the initiatives 
within  the  Secretariat,  outlined  by  the  Secretary-
General  today,  to  tangibly  improve  the  performance 
of  United  Nations  peace  operations.  The  CANZ 
group  supports  improved  strategic  force  generation 
and  capability  development,  better  operational  and 
strategic  planning,  enhanced  safety  and  security 
assessment and management tools, strengthened United 
Nations  policing  and  the  use  of  new  technologies  for 
effective  mandate  implementation.  The  CANZ  group 
encourages  the  Secretariat  to  continue  its  efforts  to 
improve contingent training and performance through 
measurable,  effects-based  and  performance-focused 
measures.
Consistent  with  the  High-level  Panel’s  report, 
we  also  support  improved  systems,  approaches  and 
structures in the Secretariat with a view to becoming 
more field-oriented in its peace operations preparation 
and  supporting  better  operability  in  the  field.  We 
believe  that  involving  women  in  peace  operations 
support 
strongly 
greatly  contributes  to  missions’  performance  and 
success.  Accordingly,  we 
the 
ongoing  efforts  to  promote  women’s  participation 
in  peace  and  security,  in  particular  participating 
in  the  brokering  of  ceasefires,  peace  negotiations, 
conflict resolution and monitoring of peace. Women’s 
participation must be central to all processes, not just 
on  women’s  issues.  Operational  effectiveness  will  be 
enhanced  through  the  implementation  of  the  review’s 
recommendations, such as the call to conduct gender-
sensitive  analysis  throughout  the  mission-planning, 
mandate-development,  implementation,  review  and 
mission-drawdown  processes.  The  CANZ  group  also 
encourages  the  Secretariat  to  continue  to  forge  ahead 
with  its  implementation  of  a  robust,  transparent  and 
accountable zero-tolerance policy on sexual exploitation 
and abuse.
to 
the 
are  key 
Member  States 
effective 
implementation  of 
the  review’s  recommendations. 
To  that  end,  we  must  all  engage  constructively  in 
United  Nations  negotiating  forums  to  make  that  a 
reality,  including  in  the  Fourth  Committee  and  the 
Fifth Committee negotiations and within the Security 
Council Working Group on Peacekeeping Operations. 
As others have mentioned, the parallel reviews of the 
United  Nations  peace  operations,  the  peacebuilding 
architecture and Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) 
provide an opportunity for broader and transformative 
change  in  the  United  Nations  engagement  in  fragile 
and conflict-affected States. The CANZ group urges a 
coherent and the holistic approach to implementing the 
reviews and initiatives already under way, as outlined 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/70/357)  on  the 
peace  operations  review,  and  we  look  forward  to  the 
high-level thematic debate that will be convened by the 
President in May.
We all provided substantial support over the course 
of the peace operations review. It will now be important 
for  Member  States  to  collectively  reach  an  early  and 
clear understanding of what we wish to achieve. More 
than  ever,  we  must  ensure  that  our  work  reflects  a 
realistic  and  contemporary  understanding  of  United 
Nations  peace  operations  and  of  the  ever-evolving 
challenges faced in the field to help those who need us 
most.
Mr.  Kandeel  (Egypt):  Egypt  aligns  itself  with 
the statements made by the representative of Morocco 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  by  the 
15-30802
9/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
thank 
the  President  for  conducting 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group.
We 
this 
important debate on the report of the Secretary-General 
on the future of peace operations (A/70/357). We thank 
the Secretary-General for his initiative in setting up the 
High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations, and 
we take note of the Panel’s report (see A/70/95) and its 
recommendations. We believe that this is an opportunity 
to  develop  a  common  understanding  of  peacekeeping 
and create an effective coordination mechanism among 
the  main  stakeholders  in  peacekeeping,  including 
regional  actors  and  troop-contributing  countries.  As 
we  deliberate  on  the  future  of  peacekeeping,  let  me 
highlight the following points.
First,  it  is  crucial  to  re-emphasize  the  three  main 
pillars  of  peacekeeping,  namely,  consent,  impartiality 
and limiting the use of force. Secondly, peacekeeping 
should  ordinarily  follow  the  signing  of  a  peace 
agreement. Peacekeeping forces are not universal armed 
forces that are entitled to impose peace agreements on 
parties  to  the  conflict.  Thirdly,  it  is  crucial  to  ensure 
the robust nature of peacekeeping operations so as to 
ensure sufficient deterrence and achieve the necessary 
level of protection of civilians.
The 
taught  us 
lessons  of  history  have 
that 
peacekeeping,  and  the  use  of  force  for  that  matter, 
cannot  on  their  own  achieve  everlasting  peace.  The 
international  community  needs  a  holistic  approach  to 
tackling  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Therefore,  peacekeeping  efforts  should  be  closely 
coordinated  with  other  peace  missions,  starting  with 
the  necessary  efforts  prior  to  peacekeeping,  such  as 
prevention, mediation and conflict management, all the 
way to post-conflict efforts to sustain peace, including 
peacebuilding,  State-building  and  tackling  the  root 
causes of conflict. It is also necessary to consider any 
possible  nexus  between  peacekeeping  operations  and 
sanctions regimes.
It  is  important,  however,  to  distinguish  between 
prevention and premature intervention. Our discussions 
should  draw  the  fine  line  between  them.  While 
prevention efforts are recommended at an early stage, 
foreign  intervention  could,  in  many  instances,  be 
premature  and  sometimes  worsen  the  situation  rather 
than  resolve  it,  especially  when  some  parties  to  the 
conflict  use  international  attention  and  pressure  to 
reach political goals.
We  commend  efforts  to  establish  global  regional 
partnerships  for  peacekeeping.  It  is  important  to 
recognize regional peacekeepers as the first responders 
when  conflicts  erupt  in  the  region.  It  is  therefore 
imperative 
to  establish  concrete  mechanisms  for 
cooperation between the Security Council and regional 
and  subregional  actors  on  peacekeeping.  We  look 
forward to a thorough discussion in the relevant General 
Assembly  committees  on  the  implementation  report 
of  the  Secretary-General,  which  should  be  a  starting 
point for further developing ideas to strengthen United 
Nations peacekeeping efforts.
Ms.  Coleman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  welcomes 
the  Secretary-General’s 
initiative to reform the United Nations peace operations. 
That effort comes at a critical time, with over 125,000 
personnel  deployed  and  27  peacekeeping,  political 
and  peacebuilding  missions.  United  Nations  peace 
operations remain an indispensable tool for preventing 
and responding to conflict.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
As  we  know,  peacekeeping  operations  and  the 
essential prevention and peacebuilding work performed 
by special political missions face immense challenges 
today.  They  are  deployed  in  increasingly  dangerous 
environments,  as  demonstrated  most  starkly  by  the 
number  of  casualties  among  peacekeepers  in  Mali. 
They  are  performing  diverse  mandates  and  complex 
operations, such as protecting civilians in the midst of 
South Sudan’s civil war, supporting Liberia during the 
Ebola crisis and assisting Haitians after the earthquake. 
Amid  those  challenges,  the  United  Nations  systems, 
policies  and  procedures  are  again  straining  to  keep 
pace.
We welcomed the widely consultative process of the 
High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations and 
its efforts to complement parallel reviews on the United 
Nations peacebuilding architecture and on women and 
peace and security, as well as its inclusion of strategic 
as well as tactical-level recommendations. Building on 
the High-level Panel’s recommendations, the Secretary-
General’s  implementation  report  (A/70/357)  identifies 
proposals to address long-standing, chronic challenges 
facing  peace  operations,  including  a  renewed  focus 
on prevention and mediation, stronger regional-global 
partnerships and new ways of planning and conducting 
United  Nations  peace  operations.  Let  me  briefly 
highlight three priorities for the United States:
10/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
First, on the protection of civilians, we welcome the 
Secretary-General’s  emphasis  on  the  need  for  United 
Nations peace operations to protect civilians, one of the 
mission leadership’s critical responsibilities. Essential 
to  that  are  mission-wide  strategies  to  assess  civilian 
insecurity and to make use of all available tools, from 
mediation and non-military means to the use of force, 
where appropriate and necessary, to support protection. 
In  addition,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  an 
assessment  and  planning  cell  in  the  Executive  Office 
of  the  Secretary-General,  and  we  urge  the  Secretary-
General  to  ensure  that  strategic  assessments  and 
planning incorporate protection and atrocity risks in an 
effective and systematic way.
to  support  dynamic 
Secondly,  on  empowering  missions  in  the  field, 
administrative  and  financial  policies  and  procedures 
must  be  configured 
field 
environments.  That  will  require  a  change  of  culture, 
policies and approaches, including aligning authorities 
with  responsibilities  and  empowering  missions,  while 
ensuring  accountability.  That 
includes  enabling 
missions  to  recruit  and  rapidly  deploy  the  right 
expertise  at  the  right  time,  giving  force  commanders 
more control over medical and casualty capabilities and 
ensuring that planning is aligned with capacities.
is 
Thirdly,  on  preventing  and  addressing  sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse,  which 
the  collective 
responsibility of the United Nations and all its Member 
States,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  recent 
initiatives  to  combat  such  behaviour.  We  urge  him  to 
continue  his  efforts  on  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse 
prevention,  while  enforcing  the  zero-tolerance  policy, 
transparency, accountability and remedial measures.
The  Secretary-General’s  implementation  report 
focuses  on  reforms  that  can  be  implemented  over  the 
coming  12  months.  Some  of  the  reforms  he  sets  out 
have  already  received  prior  authorization  from  the 
General Assembly. Others will require Member States’ 
approval,  and  still  others  call  upon  the  membership 
to  act.  In  that  regard,  I  would  ask  that  the  General 
Assembly  consider  early  action  to  acknowledge  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  before  consideration  in 
the relevant bodies.
The  United  States  stands  ready  to  work  with  the 
Secretary-General and Member States to ensure that the 
momentum  generated  by  the  High-level  Independent 
Panel’s  review  is  not  lost.  As  the  Assembly  knows, 
and  as  President  Obama  said  at  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping summit on 28 September,
“We know that peace operations are not the solution 
to  every  problem,  but  they  do  remain  one  of  the 
world’s  most  important  tools  to  address  armed 
conflict.”
For peace operations to remain an effective and efficient 
means of addressing threats to international peace and 
security, we must seize this opportunity together.
Mr. Mukerji (India): I wish to thank the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  organizing  this  plenary 
meeting on the report of the Secretary-General entitled 
“The  future  of  United  Nations  peace  operations: 
implementation of recommendations of the High-level 
Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations”  (A/70/357).
It  is  significant  that  this  meeting  has  been  organized 
by  the  President  among  the  first  agenda  items  on  the 
important issue of United Nations peace operations.
We  align  our  statement  with  that  made  by  the 
representative of Morocco on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement earlier today.
My  delegation’s  views  on  today’s  topic  are  based 
on  our  experience  in  both  the  peacekeeping  and  the 
peacebuilding operations of the United Nations. India 
is  the  largest  cumulative  troop  contributor  to  United 
Nations  peace  operations,  with  over  185,000  troops 
having served in 48 of the 69 missions mandated so far. 
The  recommendations  of  the  High-level  Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations, appointed by the Secretary-
General  in  October  2014,  carry  great  importance  for 
us. We have expressed our satisfaction with the report 
(see A/70/95) earlier and warmly welcome the presence 
here today of the High-level Panel’s Chair, Mr. Ramos-
Horta, and the Vice-Chair, Ms. Ameerah Haq.
The  most  important  issue  —  the  elephant  in  the 
room  —  is  the  big  picture,  namely,  the  way  in  which 
mandates  for  peace  operations  are  formulated  by  the 
Security  Council.  We  are  dismayed  at  the  opaque 
manner in which the Council continues to mandate peace 
operations without any accountability or transparency. 
The  human  costs  of  that  failing  are  evident  in  both 
the rising number of casualties among United Nations 
peacekeepers and the alarming growth in the number of 
civilians — now reaching, according to the Secretary-
General, 60 million — whose lives are being disrupted 
by  conflicts  that  an  ineffective  Security  Council  is 
powerless to resolve. As a declared advocate of human 
rights,  we  believe  that  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly must take the lead to prioritize agreement on 
an  early  reform  of  the  Council  during  the  seventieth 
15-30802
11/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
session of the General Assembly in order to bring hope 
to millions of ordinary men, women and children.
The  Secretary-General  has  proposed  three  pillars 
for  conducting  United  Nations  peace  operations.  Of 
them, primacy must be given to the pacific settlement 
of  disputes  as  the  core  objective  of  United  Nations 
peace operations, as set out in the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  will  enable  every  peace  operation  to 
have a clear implementation time frame. The Secretary-
General  has  recommended  that  sustained  dialogue 
among the Council, the Secretariat and troop and police 
contributors  is  essential  for  shared  understanding  of 
appropriate  responses  and  their  implications  for  the 
mandate  and  conduct  of  a  peace  operation.  He  has 
further stated that such a dialogue should begin before 
a  mission  is  established,  something  that  we  strongly 
support.
The  Secretary-General,  in  his  report,  and  the 
High-level  Panel  have  rightly  recognized  that  United 
Nations peace operations are not designed or equipped 
to impose political solutions through the sustained use 
of force, and that United Nations peace operations are 
not  an  appropriate  tool  for  military  counter-terrorism 
operations.  We  endorse 
that  view,  since  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  are  not  deployable  for  targeted 
offensive  action  against  armed  militias,  non-State 
actors or terrorists. We should not abandon the cardinal 
principles of United Nations peacekeeping, which have 
withstood the test of time, namely, the consent of the 
parties,  impartiality  and  the  non-use  of  force  except 
in  self-defence  and  defence  of  the  mandate.  We  urge 
that  the  current  allocation  of  resources  within  United 
Nations peace operations be reviewed with the aim of 
supporting  political  efforts  to  bring  about  a  peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts,  which  would  considerably 
mitigate the growing resource constraints facing United 
Nations peace operations.
The  Secretary-General  has 
reaffirmed  his 
commitment  to  informing  and  briefing  the  Security 
Council  about  situations  where  there  is  an  escalating 
risk  for  civilians  or  a  serious  shortfall  in  a  mission’s 
ability to fulfil its protection mandate. That is a welcome 
step. As a troop-contributing country, we look forward 
to  participating  in  such  briefings  in  an  interactive 
manner. United Nations peacekeepers are not only the 
Organization’s  boots  on  the  ground,  they  are  its  eyes 
and  ears,  and  by  interacting  directly  with  Member 
States, the Security Council can only benefit from the 
ground-level  assessments  that  the  troop-contributing 
countries can provide. Such interaction will contribute 
to more effective implementation of the mandate for the 
protection of civilians. That is why we are calling for 
Article  44  of  the  Charter  to  be  implemented  in  letter 
and spirit.
The  Secretary-General  has  reported  that  sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse  by  a  small  minority  of  United 
Nations personnel continue to shame our Organization. 
Such abuse scars the lives of men, women and children, 
and we take such cases extremely seriously. The United 
Nations must apply one standard, that of zero tolerance, 
when dealing with all cases of sexual exploitation and 
abuse  in  its  field  operations,  whether  peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding or others.
We  request  that  all  issues  referred  to  in  our 
debate today be referred to the Special Committee on 
Peacekeeping Operations for consideration along with 
the High-level Panel’s report.
During  the  recently  concluded  leaders’  summit 
held in New York on 28 September, the Prime Minister 
of  India  announced  a  10  per  cent  increase  in  our 
troop  contributions  to  existing  and  new  operations, 
which is already more than 8,000; an additional three 
police  units,  with  a  higher  representation  of  female 
peacekeepers, and a commitment to providing critical 
enablers,  deploying  technical  personnel  in  United 
Nations missions and providing additional training for 
peacekeepers, both at our facilities in India and in the 
field.  Such  commitments  show  that  India  is  willing 
to walk the walk when it comes to supporting United 
Nations peace operations.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
briefing.
Peace  is  a  shared  aspiration  and  noble  goal  of  all 
humankind.  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
were  born  of  the  desire  for  peace,  and  they  continue 
to  exist  for  the  same  reason.  Sixty-seven  years  have 
passed  since  the  first  United  Nations  operation  was 
established. Such operations have brought about peace in 
regions of conflict, and hope for the people living there. 
Peacekeeping operations were an innovative aspect of 
multilateralism  for  the  international  community  and 
have  become  an  important  way  of  maintaining  peace 
and security around the world.
Today, people continue to suffer severe hardships 
as a result of conflicts and wars in many parts of the 
world,  and  their  desire  for  peace  and  their  hopes  and 
12/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
expectations of the United Nations and its peacekeeping 
operations are all the more anxious and intense. At the 
same  time,  issues  such  as  the  threat  of  terrorism,  the 
expansion  of  peacekeeping  operations’  mandates  and 
the absence, in some cases, of a peace to maintain are 
posing  new  challenges  for  peacekeeping  operations. 
United Nations peacekeeping operations must innovate 
if they are to evolve.
China supports the Secretary-General’s initiative in 
launching a review of the Organization’s peacekeeping 
operations  and  his  report  (A/70/357)  based  on  the 
recommendations of the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations (see A/70/95). It is China’s hope 
that  the  review  will  enable  us  to  further  improve  the 
philosophy  behind  peacekeeping  operations,  optimize 
their mandates, strengthen their capacity-building and 
enhance their efficiency. In that regard, I would like to 
stress the following four points.
should 
be 
the  basic  principles 
First, 
for  peacekeeping 
operations 
observed.  Peacekeeping 
operations should abide by the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles 
espoused by Dag Hammarskjöld. They should respect 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries 
concerned,  have  due  respect  for  their  leadership  and 
take  great  care  where  the  use  of  forceful  measures  is 
concerned.  The  Security  Council  should  be  realistic 
and  avoid  overreaching,  make  clear  the  priorities  and 
focus  at  various  stages  of  peacekeeping  missions, 
and  adjust  the  mandates  and  scale  of  peacekeeping 
operations according to the realities on the ground. In 
implementing Security Council resolutions, operations 
should not exceed their mandates and should formulate 
and  implement  exit  have  withdrawal  strategies  in  a 
timely fashion based on local circumstances and needs.
Secondly,  the  peacekeeping  operations  system 
should continually be improved; it should be connected 
vertically  to  the  processes  of  preventive  diplomacy 
and  peacebuilding  and  horizontally  to  the  exercise  of 
political good offices and the institution of the rule of 
law, national reconciliation processes. and improvement 
of  people’s  lives.  The  Council  should  hear  the  views 
of  the  countries  concerned  and  troop-contributing 
countries more often, and should be better coordinated 
with regional organizations and take the best possible 
advantage  of  the  assistance  of  the  World  Bank,  the 
African Development Bank and other relevant financial 
institutions in order to create synergies.
Thirdly,  we  should  increase  the  rapid-response 
capabilities  of  operations,  shorten  the  deployment 
cycle  and  speed  up  the  rate  of  deployment,  which 
may  improve  operations’  image  and  credibility,  with 
a  view  to  improving  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness 
of the implementation of Security Council provisions. 
Considerable  efforts  should  be  made  to  improve  the 
process  of  establishing  and  deploying  peacekeeping 
and  special  political  missions  and  optimize  logistics-
support  systems  in  order  to  ensure  a  force’s  timely 
deployment,  as  well  as  the  transfer  of  the  necessary 
resources  so  as  to  avoid  waste.  We  should  improve 
peacekeepers’ discipline. China welcomes the efforts of 
the United Nations to establish the new Peacekeeping 
Capabilities  Readiness  System,  and  we  call  on  other 
Member States to participate in it.
Fourthly, we should give greater support to Africa, 
where more than half of United Nations peacekeeping 
operations are deployed. The Organization should give 
greater attention to the important role that regional and 
subregional organizations, such as the African Union,  
play in the maintenance of peace and security in Africa. 
The  United  Nations  and  international  community 
should strengthen their coordination and cooperation in 
peacekeeping with regional organizations in Africa, and 
help Africa build its peacekeeping capacity. We should 
give full play to the strengths of regional organizations, 
such as the African Union, in peacekeeping operations 
and help Africans solve African issues in African ways.
As one of the permanent members of the Security 
Council  and  the  world’s  largest  developing  country, 
China  has  always  provided  appropriate  support  to 
United Nations peacekeeping operations and has duly 
contributed  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Last  month,  when  President  Xi  Jinping 
attended  the  United  Nations  summit  on  peacekeeping 
operations,  he  made  six  commitments  aimed  at 
supporting and enhancing United Nations peacekeeping 
operations.
First,  China  will  participate  in  the  new  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  standby  mechanism  and,  in 
addition  to  a  regular  peacekeeping  police  force,  will 
build  an  8,000-strong  standby  peacekeeping  force. 
Secondly, at the request of the United Nations, China 
will  favourably  consider  sending  more  engineers, 
as  well  as 
to 
peacekeeping operations. Thirdly, during the next five 
years,  China  will  train  2,000  peacekeepers  for  other 
countries  and  will  engage  in  10  de-mining  assistance 
transport  and  medical  personnel, 
15-30802
13/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
projects,  including  through  the  provision  of  training 
and  equipment.  Fourthly,  over  the  next  five  years, 
China  will  provide  $100  million  in  cost-free  military 
assistance to the African Union to support the building 
of  regular  forces  and  rapid-response  crisis  forces  in 
Africa.  Fifthly,  China  will  deploy  its  first  helicopter 
contingent  to  a  peacekeeping  mission  in  Africa. 
Sixthly, part of the China-United Nations Peacekeeping 
Development  Fund  will  be  earmarked  for  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  have  become  an  important 
means of maintaining peace and security at the global 
level. They must be strengthened, not weakened.
China  will  make  every  effort  to  implement  the 
six  commitments  made  by  President  Xi  Jinping.  We 
are  ready  to  work  unremittingly  with  the  Secretariat, 
the  countries  concerned,  the  troop  contributors,  the 
African  Union  and  the  other  stakeholders  to  make  a 
greater contribution to the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
Mr. Manongi (United Republic of Tanzania): The 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements  made  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  and 
the Non-Aligned Movement.
We  also  join  in  welcoming  the  report  (A/70/357) 
of the Secretary-General on the future of peacekeeping 
operations based on the recommendations of the High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations,  led  by 
former  President  José  Ramos-Horta.  As  noted  by 
the  African  Group,  the  issues  raised  in  both  reports 
should  be  accorded  ample  space  for  discussion  in  the 
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and in 
the  Fourth  and  Fifth  Committees.  We  shall  state  our 
positions further in the deliberations of those bodies.
In the meantime, it is beyond doubt that the demands 
for  fulfilling  the  promise  and  vision  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  to  save  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war, are proving more 
challenging today than at any other time in the history of 
the Organization. It is therefore not surprising that the 
limitations  of  the  Organization’s  global  engagements 
are  increasingly  reflected  in  its  peace  operations. 
Those limitations or shortcomings are not attributable 
solely to the Organization. As Member States, we bear 
the larger responsibility. Consequently, the Secretary-
General’s  call  for  an  urgent  change  in  the  way  peace 
and security instruments are conceived and applied to 
maximize  impact  is  an  appeal  that  should  be  heeded 
with the urgency it deserves.
We support the primacy of politics over military and 
technical engagements. We have underscored on several 
occasions, including in our statement (see A/70/PV.17) in 
the recent general debate of the Assembly, the essential 
role  of  increased  investment  in  conflict  prevention. 
We therefore agree with the Secretary-General and the 
Panel  on  the  importance  of  early  engagement  by  the 
Security Council, of supporting national and regional 
prevention and mediation efforts and of bolstering the 
Secretariat’s prevention and mediation capabilities.
The  three  core  pillars  that  the  Secretary-General 
proposes in his action plan — focusing on prevention and 
mediation,  strengthening  regional/global  partnerships 
and  devising  new  ways  of  planning  and  conducting 
peace operations to make them faster, more responsive 
and  more  accountable  to  the  needs  of  countries  and 
people  in  conflicts  —  require  priority  attention.  We 
view  those  three  pillars  as  the  main  supports  of  a 
framework that corresponds to Africa’s peacebuilding 
landscape,  which  has  undergone  a  dramatic  evolution 
in  terms  of  conflict  dynamics  and  the  emergence  of 
new conflict actors.
It  is  often  pointed  out  that  Africa  has  served 
as  the  laboratory  for  many  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  initiatives  since  the  end  of  the  Cold 
War. That also holds true with respect to the post-2005 
peacebuilding  architecture,  which  has  increasingly 
focused  on  State-building  and  technocratic  capacity-
building  in  post-conflict  situations.  In  addition,  the 
focus  on  holding  so-called  democratic  elections, 
without addressing the root causes of conflicts, is not 
conducive  to  successful  undertakings.  The  lack  of 
resources and political will for long-term peacebuilding 
have  also  undermined  its  sustainability.  Better  and 
more innovative ways of tackling those challenges need 
to be developed and supported.
We must also be modest enough to concede that, in 
certain circumstances, there are limits to what can be 
achieved by foreign intervention and global institutions, 
despite their best intentions. In that regard, the African 
Union  (AU)  is  striving  to  become  a  more  prominent 
actor in the crises that afflict the continent. We believe 
that there are situations where regional and subregional 
institutions may prove to be the best first responders. 
Credible partnerships with such institutions and actors 
must be central to our common effort.
That  is  the  essence  of  the  appeal  launched  by 
the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  at 
its  high-level  meeting  held  at  the  United  Nations  on 
14/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
26  September.  In  welcoming  the  Panel’s  report  (see 
A/70/95),  the  meeting  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
strengthening  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
in  the  context  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. We are encouraged that that constitutes 
a  vital  component  of  the  Secretary-General’s  plan  of 
action. We also welcome the Secretary-General’s intent 
to  carry  out,  jointly  with  the  AU  and  in  consultation 
with  other  partners,  a  review  and  assessment  of  the 
various  mechanisms  currently  available  for  financing 
and supporting the AU peace operations authorized by 
the Council. We are confident that the outcome of the 
review will bridge one of the critical gaps that the AU 
has often brought to our collective attention.
We  note  with  great  concern  that  peacekeepers 
are operating in hostile environments with little or no 
peace to keep. Attacks against peacekeepers and other 
United Nations personnel in the field are perpetrated by 
nefarious elements that perceive them as an obstacle to 
their objectives. We must ensure the safety and security 
of United Nations personnel. We welcome the proposals 
put  forward  by  the  Secretary-General  in  that  regard. 
While strengthening United Nations peace operations, 
we must also endeavour to ensure that peacekeepers are 
held accountable for their misdeeds. We must not allow 
the transgressions of a few to sully the reputation of the 
Organization and the courageous work of many other 
valiant peacekeepers.
Finally,  as  a  country  with  several  contingents  in 
the field, we wish to recognize the valuable work being 
done  by  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat, 
especially  through  the  Department  of  Field  Support 
and  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations. 
Their work and timely responses have been a source of 
valuable operational support and backstopping for our 
forces.
We  are  therefore  delighted  to  note  the  Secretary-
General’s  directive  to  undertake  a  comprehensive 
review of issues related to in-mission mobility, as well 
as command and control of military-enabling assets, by 
the  spring  of  2016.  We  strongly  encourage  actions  to 
ensure greater effective performance in the field.
Mr.  Pedersen  (Norway):  This  important  debate 
is timely, as it is taking place just after the high-level 
week, during which a main theme was the proliferation 
of  violent  conflicts  and  their  grave  humanitarian 
consequences.
A clear message that came from our leaders at the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization  is  that  a 
strong United Nations is more vital than ever in tackling 
critical  global  challenges  to  international  peace  and 
security.  The  diverse  range  of  United  Nations  peace 
operations has become an essential means of upholding 
the Charter of the United Nations. As we speak, United 
Nations  peacekeepers  are  in  stronger  demand  than 
ever  before,  and  they  operate  in  increasingly  hostile 
environments.  Millions  of  people  count  on  them  to 
provide  a  minimum  of  protection  and  stability  and  to 
lay the foundations for a better life.
In  addition 
to 
the  uniformed  peacekeepers, 
the  United  Nations  has  developed  a  whole  range 
of  tools  for  conflict  prevention,  mediation  support 
and  peacebuilding  that  have  become  indispensable. 
However,  as  important  as  those  instruments  are,  they 
have proved incomplete and unable to meet the growing 
needs in ever more complex situations on the ground. 
The Secretary-General’s initiative last year to launch a 
process to reform United Nations peace operations was 
therefore timely and important, and Norway has been 
a strong supporter of the initiative from the very start.
The  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace 
Operations,  under  the  able  leadership  of  Mr.  Ramos-
Horta — and let me also pay a compliment to the other 
members of the Panel here — has been widely praised 
for  its  consultative  approach.  The  Panel  travelled 
extensively  and  received  input  from  Governments, 
regional  organizations,  think  tanks  and  civil  society 
from  all  regions  of  the  world.  Through  that  inclusive 
process, 
increased  our  collective 
understanding  of  the  challenges  confronting  United 
Nations peace operations.
it  has  vastly 
There seems to be broad consensus on the urgency 
of reform, adequately summed up as the four essential 
shifts:  first,  the  need  for  a  political  strategy  in  all 
missions;  secondly,  the  need  for  more  responsive  and 
tailored  operations;  thirdly,  the  need  for  stronger 
partnerships;  and,  fourthly,  the  need  to  make  United 
Nations  peace  operations  more  field-focused  and 
people-centred.  The  strong  commitments  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping demonstrated during the recent 
summit on United Nations peacekeeping is also a sign 
of that political momentum. That is good news as we 
now move forward to implementation.
The Panel’s report (see A/70/95) and the Secretary-
together  represent  a 
General’s  report  (A/70/357) 
15-30802
15/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
unique  opportunity.  We  now  need  to  discuss  them  in 
detail and to act on the proposals. The two reports are 
complementary: together they constitute a whole. Their 
relationship  is  explained  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  which  focuses  on  reforms  that  can  be  enacted 
over the short term. Other proposals require a longer-
term perspective. Both are equally important. Together 
the reports give us the best opportunity in a long time 
to  implement  necessary  changes.  We  are  responsible 
for making the United Nations peace operations fit for 
purpose for the coming decades. The General Assembly 
and its committees have a crucial role to play. We agree 
that the time has now come to establish a clear procedure 
and a road map for the follow-up phase in the General 
Assembly,  and  our  support  can  be  counted  on  as  we 
move ahead under the leadership of the presidency.
Mr.  De  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  Brazil  has  a 
long  history  in  peacekeeping  operations.  Since  1948, 
we  have  participated  in  more  than  50  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  through  the  deployment  of 
troops, police and military experts and have provided 
more than 46,000 Blue Helmets in four continents. Our 
experience has shown us first-hand the value of United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  as  one  of  the  main 
instruments  available  to  the  international  community 
to address threats to the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
Brazil  welcomed  the  intiative  by  the  Secretary-
General to appoint a High-level Independent Panel on 
Peace  Operations  to  conduct  a  comprehensive  review 
of  the  peacekeeping  operations  and  special  political 
missions. I take this opportunity to commend the Panel 
and its Chair, Mr. Ramos-Horta, for their serious work.
There  is  no  doubt  that  nowadays  peacekeeping 
operations are more complex than they were when the 
first  missions  were  established  by  the  Organization. 
The  Security  Council  is  resorting  to  peacekeeping 
in  ever  more  volatile  environments,  while  conferring 
increasingly 
that 
background, we must learn from the past and build on 
positive experiences.
ambitious  mandates.  Against 
We  welcome  the  strong  emphasis  placed  by  the 
Panel  on  the  primacy  of  politics  and  on  preventive 
diplomacy, as they are approaches that Brazil has long 
supported. Those recommendations must be translated 
into  concrete  strategies.  We  also  congratulate  the 
Panel  on  addressing  crucial  funding  issues.  The 
establishment of a special account for special political 
missions separate from the regular budget would boost 
efficiency  and  alleviate  budgetary  pressures  on  other 
critical  activities  financed  under  the  regular  budget, 
such  as  development  and  human  rights.  However,  we 
are  concerned  about  the  flexible  interpretation  given 
to  the  basic  principles  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
as  paragraph  9  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
seems to imply. It is true that innovative solutions are 
required to cope with the challenges of contemporary 
conflicts,  but  they  cannot  come  at  the  expense  of  the 
fundamental  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  underpinning  United  Nations 
peacekeeping practice.
The  United  Nations  should  not  deviate  from  its 
central goal, which is to promote peace and development 
through  diplomacy  and  cooperation.  Brazil  endorses 
the Panel’s conclusion regarding peacekeeping missions 
and  counter-terrorism  activities.  It  is  not  the  role  of 
peacekeeping missions to perform such activities, and 
they  are  not  equipped  to  do  so.  The  militarization  of 
peacekeeping  operations  would  deflect  the  United 
Nations  from  its  purpose,  which  is  to  promote  peace 
through  peaceful  solutions.  It  will 
therefore  be 
necessary  to  examine  how  to  conceptualize  counter-
terrorism tasks, not only in pragmatic terms but also in 
their doctrinaire and political implications.
Brazil believes more emphasis should be placed on 
the interdependence between security and development 
and  its  impact  on  peacekeeping  operations.  Progress 
in  the  area  of  economic  and  social  development  can 
help foster a greater and more lasting commitment to 
stability  on  the  part  of  the  local  population,  which  in 
turn is crucial to achieving conditions for sustainable 
peace  allowing  for  the  successful  drawdown  of  a 
peacekeeping mission.
Brazil favours the institutionalization of consultations 
among  the  Secretariat,  the  Security  Council  and  the 
troop-  and  police-contributing  countries  before  the 
renewal of the mandates of peacekeeping missions. The 
experience of the Friends of Haiti is one to be borne in 
mind in that respect. We need to overcome the illusion of 
sequencing  between  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
At  the  earliest  possible  stage  of  the  drafting  of  a 
mandate,  the  Security  Council  should  look  into  the 
root causes of the conflict, including its economic and 
social dimensions, and incorporate key peacebuilding 
objectives into the mission’s mandate. In that context, 
we  encourage  the  Assembly  to  undertake  the  review 
of  peacekeeping  operations  in  conjunction  with  the 
review of the peacebuilding architecture, with a view to 
16/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
their increased synergy. It is of the utmost importance 
that the recommendations of the Panel be discussed in a 
comprehensive manner by the broad membership under 
the auspices of the General Assembly.
The  Secretary-General’s  recently  released  report 
on the Panel’s recommendations, entitled “The future of 
United Nations peace operations: implementation of the 
recommendations of the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations” (A/70/357), reiterates points made 
by the Panel and mentions initiatives to be undertaken 
by  the  Secretariat  during  the  remainder  of  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon’s term. The report suggests that 
the initiatives to be favoured are those which may, in 
the opinion of the Secretariat, be implemented without 
the  need  for  the  express  authorization  of  the  Member 
States,  namely  administrative  endeavours  aimed  at 
improving the methods, planning and overall efficiency 
of the system.
In our view, the general membership, and the Special 
Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations  (C-34)  in 
particular, should be given the opportunity to pronounce 
themselves  on  those  opinions.  At  the  same  time,  we 
are  disappointed  to  note  that  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  gives  scant  attention  to  a  key  administrative 
recommendation  contained  in  the  Panel’s  report  (see 
A/70/95) that a significant majority of Member States 
endorses.  I  am  referring  to  the  creation  of  a  separate 
account for the financing of special political missions.
In sum, improving efficiency is a collective effort 
that  depends  on  the  collaboration  of  all  193  Member 
States. We look forward to discussing all aspects of the 
High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations and 
the  Secretary-General’s  reports  within  the  framework 
of the C-34 and the Fourth and Fifth Committees.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 
the Secretary-General for his briefing this morning and 
acknowledging the presence of several Panel members 
at this important debate.
The  work  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
on  Peace  Operations  was  seminal  in  nature.  The 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  convening  the  Panel 
to review peacekeeping did not come a day too soon. 
Peacekeeping operations have been a critical instrument 
in the toolkit of the United Nations. Blue Helmets have 
become the most significant and visible contribution of 
the United Nations to international peace and security. 
Over  the  years,  they  have  adapted  to  the  changing 
nature and dimensions of conflict, and that process of 
change continues. We hope that the report of the Panel 
(A/70/95) and the Secretary-General’s implementation 
report (A/70/357) will take that process forward.
These reports outline key priority areas for United 
Nations peacekeeping, along with an agenda for action. 
The  recommendations  provide  a  pathway  for  much-
needed  reform  endeavours,  including  assessments  of 
planning capabilities, leadership and training, as well 
as more focused mandates. Let me briefly put forward 
Pakistan’s view on the reports.
tone  of 
the 
is 
reports 
The  overall 
rightly 
optimistic  and  forward-looking.  We  are  gratified  to 
see several of our ideas find resonance in the reports. 
They  include  the  importance  of  consultations  with 
troop-contributing  countries,  the  provision  of  better 
resources  for  peacekeeping  missions,  a  two-phased 
mandate  formation  process  and  the  non-deployment 
of  peacekeepers  for  counter-terrorism  operations.  We 
believe  the  principles  of  peacekeeping  should  retain 
their  primacy.  The  edifice  of  peacekeeping  has  been 
built  on  those  principles.  Adherence  to  them  should 
remain  the  norm.  Reform  has  taken  place  in  the  past 
without  affecting 
fundamental  principles  of 
peacekeeping, and so it should in the future.
the 
We  agree  that  political  processes  should  take 
pre-eminence  in  conflict  prevention.  Peacekeeping 
must  be  accompanied  by  a  clear  political  track  and 
political objective, on whose successful pursuit should 
rest the success of the peacekeeping mission. Increasing 
the Secretariat’s capabilities in the fields of prevention 
and  mediation  should  be  supported,  as  that  would 
enhance its conflict prevention role. Complex mandates 
can  be  implemented  only  if  peacekeeping  operations 
are provided with adequate resources. Where mandates 
and capabilities are out of sync, the Secretariat should 
candidly  counsel  the  Security  Council  on  remedial 
measures,  and  those  proposals  should  be  given  due 
weight by the Council.
On the issue of the protection of civilians, the Panel 
has  proposed  laying  down  requirements  for  reporting 
and  accountability  to  the  Security  Council.  That 
concept needs to be explored and further clarified, as it 
is not entirely certain what would be entailed. The core 
principles of peacekeeping are not an impediment to the 
protection of civilians mandate. The Security Council 
frames those mandates, and the use of force in defence 
of  the  mandate  is  an  integral  part  of  the  principles. 
Adequacy  of  resources  is  critical  to  the  fulfilment  of 
mandates. When mandating enforcement tasks, caution 
15-30802
17/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
is needed, as such operations should be on an exceptional 
and a time-limited basis. In that regard, mandates need 
to be carefully crafted to retain the distinction between 
peacekeeping  and  peace  enforcement.  The  concept  of 
proactive defence needs further elaboration.
the 
Rapid  deployment  and  standby  capabilities  need 
resources  and 
streamlining  of  Secretariat 
procedures, some of which cause delays. Compensation 
and the reimbursement of troop costs should continue 
to get the focus they merit. A periodic mechanism for 
that purpose needs to be established. We do not support 
morphing  the  concept  of  peacekeeping  into  peace 
operations.  We  believe  that  is  a  recipe  for  confusion 
and ambiguity.
The  safety  and  security  of  peacekeepers  remains 
an absolute and overriding priority for my delegation. 
Pakistani  troops  serving  in  peacekeeping  operations 
are  highly  motivated,  trained  and  professional.  They 
certainly  do  not  shy  away  from  mandated  tasks.  The 
cautious  approach  that  we  advocate  is  merely  that 
the  United  Nations  carefully  study  the  impact  of 
those  changes,  including  with  regard  to  international 
humanitarian  law,  the  immunity  of  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  and 
security  of 
peacekeepers when their neutrality is compromised.
safety  and 
the 
We  believe  that  the  reports  need  thoughtful 
examination  and  careful  study.  For  that  purpose,  we 
believe  that  the  Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping 
Operations  (C-34)  is  the  most  appropriate  body  to 
deliberate on the issue. The idea of convening a special 
session of the C-34 to discuss the finer details and chart 
out an implementation plan might also be considered.
Pakistan  has  not  only  consistently  been  among 
the world’s top troop-contributing countries to United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  but  is  also  at  the  forefront  of 
norm-setting on the subject. By way of reinforcing and 
reiterating our enduring commitment, Prime Minister 
Nawaz  Sharif  co-hosted  the  leaders’  summit  on 
peacekeeping last month and announced a series of new 
pledges  to  support  future  endeavours.  Let  me  assure 
Member  States  that  our  commitment  to  peacekeeping 
is as strong as our commitment to peace itself. Despite 
challenging  circumstances  at  home,  we  will  continue 
to provide peacekeepers, as we consider it our sacred 
duty to do so. We will continue to support that common 
cause.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made by the observer of the European Union. 
I join others in thanking the Secretary-General for his 
report (A/70/357) and the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations, led by Mr. Ramos-Horta, for its 
work.
As the Panel’s report (see A/70/95) clearly highlights, 
the global security challenge has dramatically changed 
over  the  years.  We  need  renewed  partnerships  and 
updated tools to face today’s challenges. As the foremost 
Blue  Helmet  contributor  among  Western  countries, 
Italy has a strong and direct interest in contributing to 
the future of United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
Thanks to our presence in the field, we have gathered 
considerable  experience  in  peacekeeping  through  the 
years, which we are ready and willing to share.
Before addressing the more detailed aspects, I want 
to  stress  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole 
to  continue  to  work  towards  political  responses  to 
crises. We need to engage much more in mediation and 
prevention. The report on peacekeeping operations, the 
report of the Advisory Group of Experts on the Review 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Architecture  (A/69/968)  and  the 
global study on the implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1325 (2000) on women and peace and security 
all  have  a  common  denominator:  the  reinforcement 
of  the  tools  pertaining  to  preventive  diplomacy.  We 
think that we need to return such activities to the core 
business of the United Nations.
Conflict prevention, confidence-building measures 
and mediation instruments must be given the necessary 
space and resources. At the same time, those building 
tools  are  key  to  ensuring  reconciliation  and  lasting 
peace  and  security  and  therefore  must  receive  the 
proper  political  and  financial  support.  We  are  of  the 
opinion  that  as  the  United  Nations  reviews  its  tools 
with a view to being more fit for purpose in addressing 
the  challenges,  those  three  tracks  must  proceed  in 
an  integrated,  coordinated  way,  encouraging  every 
possible synergy.
The  Italian  contribution  to  peacekeeping  is  not 
limited  to  supplying  troops,  as  it  is  complemented 
by  providing  training,  naval  vessels,  air  assets  and 
intelligence  resources,  integrated  by  an  experienced 
military  leadership.  Italy  is  not  only  engaged  abroad; 
it  is  also  providing  training,  education  and  logistical 
support 
to  United  Nations  operations  on  Italian 
territory, through the United Nations logistical base in 
Brindisi,  which  is  the  first  permanent  logistical  base 
to  support  peacekeeping  operations  and  has  been  in 
operation since 1994.
18/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
Training  is  crucial  to  ensure  the  success  and 
reputation  of  the  missions.  Italy  has  a  strong  record 
in  training  national  personnel  for  peace  operations. 
Respect for human rights, protection of civilians and a 
gender  perspective  are  embedded  in  national  military 
training curricula. Since 2005, the Centre of Excellence 
for  Stability  Police  Units,  in  Vicenza,  run  by  our 
Carabinieri, together with the United States and other 
African  and  European  countries,  has  offered  training 
programmes  and  developed  standards  and  common 
operating procedures to be applied during robust police 
activity. Twenty countries have already sent personnel 
to be trained at the Centre.
Italy  is  also  ready  to  strengthen  its  engagement 
in  capacity-building,  to  support  police  and  military 
units of Member States willing to contribute to United 
Nations missions. Our focus will be on predeployment 
training  and  other  sectors  where  Italy’s  expertise  is 
well  established,  such  as  civil  military  cooperation, 
countering improvised explosive devices and protection 
of  civilians.  We  are  all  conscious,  of  course,  of  the 
importance of predeployment training.
I confirm Italy’s full support for the zero-tolerance 
policy against sexual abuse. Italy, as one of the major 
troop-contributing  countries  and  one  of  the  original 
signatories of the Kigali Declaration, has reaffirmed its 
commitment to working to prevent abuse, from the level 
of the training phase in which we are involved, to the 
deployment of more female peacekeepers. Italy can also 
count  on  the  specialized  units  within  its  contingents. 
The  Carabinieri  units,  acting  as  military  police,  are 
able to monitor and investigate any wrongdoing.
The protection of civilians is a growing challenge 
for United Nations missions when the security context 
remains volatile and the reconciliation process is fragile. 
As a relatively new task of the United Nations and its 
missions,  the  review  offers  an  opportunity  to  provide 
a  strategic  vision  on  such  a  crucial  topic.  In  order  to 
deliver the effective protection of civilians, strong unity 
of  intent  among  the  United  Nations  membership  is 
needed. Furthermore, greater effort should be invested 
in supporting regional organizations, especially on the 
African continent, through training and assistance. The 
United  Nations  should  seek  closer  synergies  with  the 
European Union in that respect.
There is an emerging dimension to which I would 
like to briefly draw attention. It concerns Italy’s belief 
about what should be done to protect cultural heritage 
in  a  crisis  situation  and  may  provide  a  substantial 
contribution to the prevention and reconciliation efforts 
led by the United Nations. The cultural dimension, which 
has  already  been  integrated  into  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Mali,  could  represent  an  additional  capability  of 
United Nations peace operations. Based on our national 
experience, we stand ready to promote that approach.
We  live  in  challenging  times  and  are  confronted 
by  the  legitimate  expectation,  as  expressed  by  public 
opinion on behalf of the most severely affected people, 
that  the  international  community  should  be  able  to 
implement  comprehensive  policies,  accompanied  by 
effective  tools.  We  must  live  up  to  that  expectation 
while ensuring the credibility of the United Nations in 
the maintenance of peace and security.
Ms.  Rodríguez  Pineda  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): Let me begin by thanking the President of the 
General Assembly for convening this important debate 
and for his leadership in initiating a process that will 
mark  the  starting  point  of  the  work  to  be  carried  out 
in the coming months. I also express my thanks to the 
Secretary-General for his comments.
As  we  have  said  on  other  occasions,  Guatemala 
welcomes  many  of  the  recommendations  proposed  by 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations 
in its report (see A/70/95) on the modernization of those 
operations. We have also taken note of the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of  the  Panel’s 
recommendations  (A/70/357).  We  hope  to  be  able  to 
discuss  and  to  implement  the  recommendations  and 
proposals  contained  in  both  reports;  we  believe  that 
they are mutually complementary and should therefore 
be examined as a whole.
We have taken note of the differences between the 
two  reports  and  hope  to  have  a  substantive  dialogue 
on  all  of  the  issues,  particularly  regarding  regional 
partnerships,  innovative  approaches  to  planning  and 
leading  peacekeeping  operations,  the  focus  on  the 
ground  and  the  involvement  of  individuals,  and  the 
establishment  of  a  separate  fund  for  the  financing 
of  special  political  missions.  In  that  regard,  it  will 
be  necessary  to  discuss  the  question  of  terminology 
that is acceptable to all Member States, including the 
definition of a peace operation.
We  must  all  address  the  fundamental  challenges 
faced  by  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
today.  We  recognize  that  peacekeeping  is  not  an  end 
in  itself,  but  rather  a  process.  We  must  bear  in  mind 
15-30802
19/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
all  stages  of  a  conflict,  because  the  end  of  a  conflict 
does not necessarily signal the establishment of peace. 
The  review  process  also  provides  an  opportunity  to 
reduce the fragmentation evident in the activities of the 
various United Nations bodies endowed with peace and 
security mandates.
In addition, we must achieve greater coordination 
and  cohesion  with  other  review  processes  to  be 
undertaken  this  year.  We  hope  to  better  harmonize 
the three agendas. Unlike in the process to review the 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  architecture,  where  two 
facilitators  have  already  been  appointed  and  where  a 
road map on moving forward already exists, we are not 
quite sure about how to proceed with the two reports 
before  the  Assembly.  In  that  regard,  we  believe  that 
in each of the spaces that exist to examine the various 
issues  addressed  in  both  reports,  we  can  achieve  the 
agreements necessary to advance the work of the United 
Nations peacekeepers.
We recognize the value of the Special Committee 
on  Peacekeeping  Operations  in  providing  a  forum 
for  countries  such  as  mine  to  join  in  the  discussion 
on  ways  to  improve  and  increase  the  effectiveness  of 
the  peacekeeping  operations.  We  also  recognize  the 
relevance of the discussions in the Fourth Committee 
on political issues associated with the special political 
missions and in the Fifth Committee on budgetary and 
administrative matters. This does not mean that we will 
settle for any agreement, but we hope that it will be the 
type of agreement that will lead to significant reforms 
for a new collective vision of the Organization and what 
the United Nations should be doing in the maintenance 
of international peace and security.
My  delegation  is  ready  to  actively  participate  to 
advance the work of the United Nations.
Mr.  Delattre  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Secretary-General  took  the  initiative  to  launch  a 
strategic review of peacekeeping operations, and today 
we  are  considering  his  proposals  on  the  basis  of  the 
work  done  by  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace  Operations,  led  by  Mr.  Ramos-Horta,  to  whom 
I  am  pleased  to  pay  tribute.  France  is  grateful  to  the 
Secretary-General for having taken this initiative and 
congratulates the Independent Panel and the Secretariat 
for  carrying  out  this  major  undertaking  under  tight 
deadlines. Allow me to make three observations.
First,  we  support 
the  conceptual  framework 
proposed by the Secretary-General. France agrees that 
priority should be given to seeking political agreements 
in order to achieve lasting solutions to crises. That is 
the  very  raison  d’être  of  peacekeeping.  Similarly, 
France welcomes the fact that the protection of civilians 
and human rights are recognized as fundamental goals 
in  peacekeeping.  In  this  connection,  we  support  the 
Human  Rights  Up  Front  initiative  and  the  Secretary-
General’s  intention  to  promote  an  active  and  early 
engagement  by  the  United  Nations  where  there  is  a 
threat to civilians.
These two requirements call for dynamic, engaged 
and sometimes, when necessary, robust peacekeeping. 
We  believe  the  Secretary-General  has  found  the  right 
balance in this regard. A United Nations peacekeeping 
operation  cannot  impose  solutions  by  force,  but  must 
know  how  to  use  force  in  support  of  the  search  for 
political  solutions  and  the  imperative  of  protecting 
civilians when circumstances require it.
My second point is that France supports the main 
principles, such as the immediate measures identified 
by the Secretary-General, as a guide for United Nations 
action  in  crisis  situations.  First  of  all,  there  is  the 
principle of being exemplary. The Blue Helmets embody 
the values   of the Charter of the United Nations and our 
shared conscience. They serve the people. In this regard, 
the  recent  cases  of  sexual  abuse  are  unacceptable. 
France supports the proposals of the Secretary-General 
to further strengthen the zero-tolerance policy applied 
to the Blue Helmets and ensures that the same principle 
applies to our national troops when they are abroad.
We 
support 
should  also 
the  principle  of 
accountability. It must be applied at all levels, from the 
local level of operations on the ground to the strategic 
level of the decisions taken by the Security Council. We 
believe it is important to strengthen the accountability 
of the heads of missions. France will continue to ensure 
that  this  principle  guides  the  decision-making  by  the 
Council, in particular in the development of targeted, 
coherent  and  sequenced  mandates.  The  principles 
of  partnership  and  coordination  are  also  compasses 
for  United  Nations  action.  Partnership  with  regional 
organizations,  on  the  basis  of  Chapter  VIII,  must  be 
strengthened.  The  principle  of  coordination  should 
allow the various United Nations funds and agencies on 
the ground to work together more effectively.
Thirdly,  our  main  concern,  ultimately,  is  that  the 
United  Nations  be  more  effective  and  proactive  on 
the  ground,  as  the  Secretary-General  has  just  stated. 
This imperative of efficiency can be achieved quickly 
20/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
through  simple  and  inexpensive  reorganization  and 
procedural reform measures. The first of these, in the 
spirit of the report before us, is to empower the actors 
on the ground and make them accountable and to adapt 
the  procedures  to  enable  the  necessary  flexibility. 
Competencies  and  capacities  should  be  in  place  at 
Headquarters and on the ground, and we count on the 
mobilization  of  the  Secretariat  on  this  subject.  In  the 
same spirit, the Secretariat’s internal procedures must 
be thoroughly reviewed. Some rules for hiring civilian 
personnel  are  too  cumbersome  and  slow.  Similarly, 
some  rules  allowing  for  the  provision  of  support  and 
equipment to troops should be improved in order to be 
more responsive.
Finally, as the Secretary-General has stated and as 
is indicated in the report (A/70/357), we must protect 
the security of the staff of the peacekeeping operations 
and that begins with better governance of health-care 
issues  in  the  operations.  Better  supervision  and  an 
accountability  framework  must  be  established.  There 
are other priorities we could mention, such as the use 
of new technologies and a strengthening of intelligence 
capacities, which also lead to important improvements 
in peacekeeping.
France  will  continue  to  participate  and  support 
United Nations peace operations and participate fully 
in order to enhance their effectiveness.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): I thank the President for 
organizing this important meeting.
Croatia aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the  observer  of  the  European  Union,  and  I  will  make 
some additional remarks in my national capacity.
First,  we  thank  and  commend  the  Secretary-
General for his report (A/70/357) on the future of the 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  It  is  a  very 
timely  report  not  only  because  it  comes  as  we  mark 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our  Organization,  but 
even more so because it comes at a time when we are 
faced  with  unprecedented  challenges  —  more  armed 
conflicts, terrorism and violent extremism, more than 
60  million  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons, 
migration and humanitarian crises.
For  many  years  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations have helped to maintain international peace 
and security around the world. Croatia can bear witness 
to that. In the early 1990s, Croatia was the theatre of one 
of the largest United Nations peacekeeping operations 
in history. Important lessons were learned during that 
time, and we must constantly remain mindful of them, 
especially when it comes to the clarity of mandates and 
the means of implementing them.
Today, with the growing complexity of challenges 
in the international order, United Nations peacekeeping 
is as important to international peace and stability as 
ever.  Nothing  short  of  a  comprehensive  and  thorough 
analysis  is  needed  in  order  to  help  United  Nations 
peacekeeping adapt to the realities of a globalized world 
and  its  regional  specificities.  For  that  reason  Croatia 
strongly  welcomes  and  commends  the  excellent  work 
done  by  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace 
Operations  led  by  Mr.  Ramos-Horta,  as  well  as  the 
report of the Secretary-General on the implementation 
of the recommendations of the Panel.
We are confident that the report will provide a strong 
basis  and  guidance  for  increasing  the  effectiveness 
of  United  Nations  peace  operations  and  enhancing 
synergy between all the components of United Nations 
peacekeeping.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  in  particular 
the following points that were raised by Croatia at the 
highest  level  earlier  this  month.  Rapid-deployment 
capacity should be efficiently ensured. Mandates should 
be clear, precise and realistic. They should be designed 
according to specific circumstances in a given context. 
There must be no ambiguity concerning the tasks that 
should be accomplished.
Creating  more  clarity  in  mandates  is  a  way  to 
improve  their  outcome.  Mandates  must  be  focused 
on  protecting  civilians  and  those  most  vulnerable  in 
conflicts, namely, women, children and the elderly. In 
our view, the protection of civilians is one of the crucial 
dimensions of peacekeeping and is often decisive for the 
success and legitimacy of United Nations peacekeeping 
operations. The failures and successes of the past must 
serve  as  lessons  for  the  future.  What  happened  in 
Srebrenica 20 years ago is a poignant example that must 
not be repeated under any circumstances.
We  stress  the  need  for  the  active  and  meaningful 
participation of women in conflict prevention, conflict 
resolution  and  peace  processes,  including  the  need  to 
increase their role in decision-making in all areas. We 
all  need  to  increase  our  efforts  to  mainstream  gender 
aspects  into  peace  operations.  Promoting  respect  for 
human rights also has to be an essential part of conflict 
prevention  and  peacekeeping  and,  as  such,  should  be 
reflected in the mandates. One of our priorities should be 
the prevention of sexual and gender-based violence. We 
are particularly concerned about accusations of sexual 
15-30802
21/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
exploitation and abuse by several of the peacekeeping 
troops. It has to be clearly stated that such conduct is 
unacceptable,  that  those  cases  should  be  thoroughly 
and  rapidly  investigated,  that  such  actions  must  be 
publicly denounced and that their perpetrators must be 
held accountable. United Nations personnel are there to 
protect and help, and any misuse of that noble role must 
be condemned unequivocally.
The link between security and development should 
constantly  remain  in  our  focus.  Once  a  conflict  is 
contained  and  the  peacekeeping  mission  proves  to 
be  operative  in  practice,  it  must  be  accompanied  by 
timely and clearly defined development efforts. In that 
context, we see a clear linkage between the Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/70/357)  and  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  A/70/1),  as  well 
as other review processes. We believe that the parallel 
review  processes  of  the  peacekeeping  operations  and 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  the  implementation  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women 
and  peace  and  security,  will  provide  strategic  and 
operational  recommendations  that  should  be  read 
together to create constructive synergy.
Peace  operations 
today  encompass  a 
range 
of  operations  that  take  place  in  all  phases  of  the 
conflict  cycle,  including  prevention,  peacekeeping, 
peacemaking  and  peacebuilding,  and  reconstruction 
and development roles. There is a clear linkage between 
all  of  those  roles,  all  of  which  require  our  attention. 
Nevertheless,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
call urging that prevention and mediation be put at the 
centre  of  international  peace  and  security  efforts  and 
that United Nations tools to prevent and mediate crises 
be strengthened in order to help create faster and more 
cost-effective responses to conflicts.
In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  the  effectiveness 
of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  is  the 
responsibility  of  all  Member  States.  On  our  behalf,  I 
can  reiterate  Croatia’s  readiness  and  determination  to 
continue to actively contribute to making United Nations 
peacekeeping even more effective and efficient. Croatia 
recently  participated  in  the  peacekeeping  summit 
hosted  by  President  Obama,  where  we  announced 
our  new  contribution  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
efforts, to which we remain committed.
Lastly, let me reiterate our words of gratitude to the 
Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  in  preparing  the 
United Nations to rise to the challenges of the future.
Mr.  Menelaou  (Cyprus):  Cyprus  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union, and would like to add the following in 
its national capacity.
We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General for his report (A/70/357) and to the members of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations, 
chaired by Mr. José Ramos-Horta, for their invaluable 
work and the inclusive and transparent way, in which 
they accomplished their task.
Cyprus  has  served  as  host  to  a  United  Nations 
peacekeeping mission for over 50 years. We therefore 
have  first-hand  experience  of  the  evolving  nature  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping.  We  are  also  aware  of 
the  fact  that  for  every  dimension  of  the  work  of  the 
Organization,  peacekeeping  needs  to  be  harmonized 
with  contemporary  challenges  in  order  to  effectively 
respond  to  present-day  needs,  while  upholding  its 
purposes as defined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
From that angle, we wish to reflect on several aspects 
that were identified and then developed in the report, 
which in our view, should be among the fundamental 
components of effective peacekeeping.
First,  we  fully  share  the  position  advanced  in  the 
report  that  negotiated  political  settlements  should  be 
the  fundamental  objective  of  United  Nations  peace 
operations and that such political solutions to conflicts 
depend  ultimately  on  a  country’s  people  and  leaders. 
The  United  Nations  role  is,  as  the  report  also  states, 
to  assist  parties  to  arrive  at  sustainable  political 
agreements.  Let  us  underline,  in  that  regard,  that  in 
discharging  that  role,  the  United  Nations  must  be 
neutral but not neutralized, and that impartiality is not 
the same as being equidistant between the Charter and 
resolutions, on the one hand, and illegality, on the other. 
In the same vein, we consider that sequenced mandates 
constitute an innovative notion that can strengthen the 
adjustability of peace operations without outweighing 
political  primacy  or  overemphasizing  methodological 
considerations.
Secondly,  Cyprus  fully  agrees  that  human  rights, 
gender  equality  and  the  participation  of  women  in 
peace  operations,  as  well  as  the  humanitarian  role  of 
peacekeeping,  should  be  placed  at  the  heart  of  peace 
operations and the security agenda. Specifically, with 
regard  to  the  humanitarian  aspects,  efforts  must  be 
redoubled and resources increased in the area of truth 
and  reconciliation  for  the  purpose  of  discovering  and 
revealing past wrongdoing.
22/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
In  conclusion,  let  me  once  again  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  efforts 
and  reassure  him  of  our  support  for  more  coherent, 
transparent and effective United Nations peacekeeping.
Mr. Yoshikawa (Japan): I would like to begin by 
expressing my sincere appreciation for the President’s 
leadership in convening today’s timely meeting. I would 
also  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  report  (A/70/357)  and  his  briefing  today.  My 
gratitude  also  goes  to  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta,  Chair 
of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peacekeeping 
Operations, who is present among us today, and to the 
other  Panel  members  for  their  excellent  report  (see 
A/70/95).
Two weeks ago, leaders of more than 50 countries 
and organizations, including my own, discussed United 
Nations peacekeeping operations at the United Nations, 
under  the  chairmanship  of  President  Obama  of  the 
United States. My hope is that the momentum created 
by the leaders’ summit on the issue will give a strong 
impetus to our upcoming intergovernmental discussion 
on the two reports on United Nations peace operations 
currently before of us. Before discussing the reports, let 
me say a few words about United Nations peacekeeping 
operations.
Although this is not stipulated in the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  peacekeeping  operations  have  been 
an  integral  part  of  United  Nations  activities  on  peace 
and  security.  Because  of  their  excellent  results,  and 
the  high  expectations  placed  in  them,  their  roles  and 
responsibilities  have  been  expanded.  In  fact,  over  the 
past decade, the number of deployed peacekeepers has 
doubled,  from  65,000  to  123,000.  The  peacekeeping 
budget has also increased. For the biennium 2004-2005, 
it  was  approximately  $4  billion;  the  budget  10  years 
later has hit a historic high of $8.5 billion. While we can 
acknowledge the excellent work done by peacekeeping 
operations  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security in places like Cambodia and Timor-Leste, 
the challenge we now face is how to make peacekeeping 
operations  sustainable  with  the  limited  financial  and 
human resources available.
Fifteen years ago, we were all involved in finalizing a 
very comprehensive review of peacekeeping operations 
known as the Brahimi report. I took part in that review. 
I believe that the most important sentence of the report 
is  the  one  that  says,  “But  force  alone  cannot  create 
peace; it can only create the space in which peace may 
be built” (A/55/305, p. viii). The primary role of military 
operations is to create space for the political process to 
achieve a viable peace.
We should conduct a thorough review of peacekeeping 
operations  that  examines  the  need  for  each  mission 
based on that criterion. In that context, military missions 
that have been deployed for a long time should be called 
into question. I would like to point out that six of the 
current  16  peacekeeping  missions  have  had  military 
troops deployed for more than a decade; three of those 
missions have had troops deployed for more than three 
decades. We all know which missions they are. Are so 
many years of military presence not sufficient to give 
the political leaders of the parties to those conflicts the 
space  in  which  to  build  peace?  If  not  sufficient,  then 
for how many more years do the peacekeepers need to 
continue  their  work?  We  should  continuously  check 
whether  the  current  configuration  of  peacekeeping 
missions  and  other  United  Nations  instruments  for 
international  peace  and  security,  including  special 
political  missions,  are  the  most  effective  means  for 
achieving sustainable peace.
The  two  reports  before  us  today  urge  that  each 
mission  be  more  adaptive  to  the  situation  and  needs 
on the ground. To that end, we need to ensure that the 
mission’s mandate is elaborated in accordance with the 
reality  on  the  ground  and  that  it  is  responsive  to  the 
changing field situation. The Secretary-General should 
keep  a  close  eye  on  developments  on  the  ground  and 
should  make  timely  and  realistic  recommendations 
to the Security Council. The Security Council should 
review each mission’s mandate in a timely manner to 
ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  mission’s  activities. 
The  automatic  renewal  of  mission  mandates  should 
be  avoided,  and  the  mandates  of  prolonged  missions 
should be thoroughly reviewed.
We  also  need  to  enhance  our  human  resources. 
Even though highly qualified personnel are necessary 
for  today’s  peacekeeping  operations,  we  all  too  often 
struggle to meet that requirement. There is a pressing 
need  to  increase  the  number  of  qualified  personnel. 
Training is an indispensable tool for creating qualified 
peacekeepers.  The  two  reports  welcome  capacity-
building 
triangular 
partnership  arrangements  between  the  Secretariat, 
troop  contributors  and  third-party  countries  with 
specific capabilities. The Department of Field Support 
and  Japan  jointly  launched  a  pioneering  project  for 
African  troop-contributing  countries,  to  which  Japan 
contributed  approximately  $40  million  for  funding 
initiatives 
through 
so-called 
15-30802
23/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
the project and for trainers. In September, the project 
started trial training in Kenya; full-scale training will 
follow next year.
Before  closing,  I  regret  having  to  touch  on  one 
negative  aspect  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations. Recent allegations of reprehensible sexual 
exploitation and abuse by peacekeepers, particularly the 
latest allegations in the Central African Republic, have 
damaged  the  Organization’s  integrity  and  credibility. 
The bad news is that this is neither the only nor the first 
such  case.  Such  unacceptable  misconduct  tarnishes 
the  noble  contributions  of  the  more  than  100,000 
peacekeepers  being  deployed  today.  Concrete  and 
robust  measures  against  such  unacceptable  behaviour 
are necessary. To that end, Japan strongly supports the 
Secretary-General’s  zero-tolerance  policy  and  calls 
for  the  immediate  implementation  of  the  measures 
recommended in his report.
Finally, I would like to mention one point regarding 
the  budgetary  issues  with  respect  to  all  categories 
of  United  Nations  peace  operations, 
including 
peacekeeping operations and special political missions. 
Although the two reports include numerous important 
initiatives, we are concerned about their possible cost 
implications.  Every  single  dollar  spent  by  the  United 
Nations  comes  from  the  taxpayers  of  the  Member 
States.  We  therefore  urge  the  Secretariat  to  absorb 
any add-ons, to the greatest extent possible, within the 
existing resources.
In line with the points that I have raised today, my 
delegation  will  proactively  contribute  to  subsequent 
discussions on the recommendations of the two reports 
in  the  relevant  bodies  of  the  General  Assembly,  such 
as the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations 
and the Fourth and Fifth Committees.
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation  to  all  field  personnel  serving  in  United 
Nations  peace  operations  and  to  offer  my  deepest 
condolences  for  those  personnel  who  have  made  the 
ultimate sacrifice.
Mr. Skoog (Sweden): Sweden aligns itself with the 
statement  made  this  morning  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Sweden  warmly  welcomes  the  opportunity  to 
discus the very timely review of United Nations peace 
operations.  It  has  set  out  important  steps,  not  just 
towards  strengthening  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
capabilities, but also towards reforming United Nations 
responses  to  challenges  to  peace  and  security  as  a 
whole.  That  review,  together  with  the  review  of  the 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  the  global  study  on 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), has created a 
real momentum for reform, an opportunity that should 
not be missed.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  (A/70/357)  on  the  future  of  United 
Nations peace operations, which takes up many of the 
recommendations  of  the  excellent  work  of  the  High-
level Independent Panel on Peace Operations. We find 
the  report  balanced,  constructive  and  operational.  In 
that regard, we would like to highlight three aspects as 
we move forward.
First,  we  particularly  welcome  the  focus  on  the 
entire  conflict  cycle  of  planning  and  executing  peace 
operations.  Operations  should  be  designed  not  only 
to  keep  the  peace  but  also  to  facilitate  post-conflict 
peacebuilding, to help prevent lapses and relapses into 
conflict and to assist with progress towards sustainable 
peace and development. Also, peacebuilding activities 
need to be given adequate resources to work effectively. 
We  support  the  concept  of  a  continuum  of  peace 
operations, thereby moving away from the increasingly 
artificial distinction between traditional peacekeeping 
operations and special political missions.
Secondly,  it  is  crucial  that  a  gender  perspective 
and  the  conclusions  of  the  review  of  resolution  1325 
(2000) be integrated into all aspects of United Nations 
peace  operations,  throughout  mission  life  cycles  and 
across mandated tasks. Unfortunately, we have a long 
way to go to achieve that objective, but we nonetheless 
welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  resolve  to  increase 
accountability  and  root  out  sexual  exploitation  and 
abuse among the ranks of United Nations personnel in 
the field.
Thirdly,  partnerships  with  regional  organizations 
are central to effective international peace and security 
engagements. As recent history has shown, not least in 
Africa,  regional  forces  are  often  faster  to  deploy  and 
better  able  to  act  swiftly  and  decisively.  The  African 
Union  (AU)  has  led  the  way  with  its  efforts  to  fully 
operationalize  its  African  Standby  Force.  Sweden  is 
already a major supporter of institution and capacity-
building  endeavours  within  the  African  Union  and 
remains 
further 
integration between United Nations and AU capabilities.
fully  committed 
to 
facilitating 
24/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
In  conclusion,  we  must  be  realistic  about  the 
challenges  ahead  but  ambitious  in  our  responses,  and 
we all have a responsibility to see the process through. 
The  Secretary-General’s  leadership  in  implementing 
the recommendations in his report that fall within his 
remit is crucial, but we would also like to call on the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  seize  this 
opportunity  to  reform  the  United  Nations  peace  and 
security  architecture  in  all  relevant  forums  and  make 
it  fit  to  tackle  the  security  challenges  of  today  and 
tomorrow. Sweden stands ready to do its part in that.
Mr.  Toro-Carnevali  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We align ourselves with 
the statement delivered earlier by the representative of 
Morocco on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. We 
are very grateful for the convening of today’s meeting 
to discuss the two reports before us.
The  report  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
on  Peace  Operations  (see  A/70/95)  —  the  “Nyakhat 
report” — provides us with a profound reflection on the 
future of the United Nations peacekeeping architecture. 
While the report makes specific recommendations on 
how to reform and improve the work of the Organization, 
its greatest contribution lies in having put on paper the 
complexity, challenges and the contradictions that face 
any agenda for reform in this area.
Turning 
to  some  concrete  examples  of  such 
challenges,  the  report  stresses  the  importance  of 
giving priority to political solutions in the design and 
deployment of peacekeeping operations, but at the same 
time  recognizes  that  most  conflicts  today  are  more 
intricate and less conducive to political resolution than 
formerly. The report urges that peacekeeping operations 
leave behind the culture of white sport utility vehicles 
and  armoured  trucks  and  focus  more  on  people,  on 
showing a more human face and interacting more with 
local  communities  in  order  to  better  understand  their 
needs and aspirations. At the same time, however, the 
report stresses that 90 per cent of political missions and 
two thirds of peacekeeping operations are deployed in 
high-risk  situations  where  conflicts  are  still  ongoing 
and there are serious security concerns for personnel.
The report sees prevention and mediation as playing 
a  key  role,  with  an  emphasis  on  discreet  preventive 
diplomacy  that  by  its  nature  will  go  unrecognized  if 
it  is  successful.  At  the  same  time,  the  report  stresses 
that  precisely  because  such  preventive  mediation  and 
diplomacy  is  discreet  and  quiet,  it  does  not  attract 
donors’  attention  and  suffers  from  chronic  budget 
shortfalls.
their  impartiality  and  for 
The  report  agrees  with  the  view  of  humanitarian 
workers 
that  peacekeeping  operations  must  be 
committed  to  an  maintaining  an  open  dialogue  with 
all  parties  to  a  conflict,  State  and  non-State  actors 
alike,  and  should  explore  all  alternatives  to  violence. 
However, it indicates that at times some peacekeeping 
operations  with  exceptional  mandates  can  themselves 
become parties to a conflict, with serious consequences 
for 
the  Organization’s 
humanitarian  tasks.  There  are  many  examples  such 
as  these  that  highlight  the  deep  complexity  of  peace 
operations. The Secretary-General’s report (A/70/357) 
makes a significant effort to take the more operational 
aspects  of  the  Panel’s  report  and  translate  them  into 
concrete policies, although it does not always follow the 
Panel’s  recommendations  and  sometimes  introduces 
new  elements.  Both  reports  are  important  and  should 
be  carefully  considered.  Privileging  one  report  over 
the  other  as  the  sole  source  for  intergovernmental 
negotiation  processes  would  be  a  serious  error.  Both 
have much to contribute.
The  work  on  the  High-level  Panel’s  report  was 
done  transparently  and  was  the  product  of  extensive 
regional  consultations,  but  its  legitimacy,  and  that  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  report,  will  depend  on  the 
decisions  to  be  adopted  by  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping Operations, the only body charged with 
designing the policies and doctrines that govern those 
operations,  and  by  other  relevant  committees  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
My  delegation  is  grateful  for  the  convening  of  this 
meeting to discuss the Secretary-General’s report on the 
future of United Nations peace operations (A/70/357). 
The recommendations of the Secretary-General and of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations, 
skilfully  led  by  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta,  along  with 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization,  have 
given us a unique opportunity to reflect on the role we 
believe the United Nations should play in international 
relations in the future. Mexico sees it as a test of the 
will  and  commitment  of  Member  States  to  finding 
solutions  to  the  multidimensional  problems  we  face, 
and to formulate and implement solutions to political, 
security, development, human rights and humanitarian 
issues.
15-30802
25/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
The world increasingly demands more of the staff 
of  our  peacekeeping  operations  and  special  political 
missions, and we the Member States have not been able 
to  agree  on  providing  the  Organization  with  all  the 
resources it needs to discharge its mandate. We believe 
that, in order to be effective and efficient, the future of 
peacekeeping operations cannot continue to be subject 
to  unpredictable  resource  allocation.  We  therefore 
urge  that  immediate  steps  be  taken  to  improve  the 
situation. We strongly support the clear and convincing 
recommendation  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
for  the  immediate  adoption  of  measures  to  set  up  a 
special separate account for special political missions, 
and we regret that the Secretary-General has not placed 
more emphasis on that proposal in his report (A/70/357).
In  our  collective  efforts,  we  must  acknowledge 
the  growing  importance  of  the  role  that  regional  and 
subregional organizations play in conflict resolution, as 
well as the relevance — emphasized by the Independent 
Panel  and  the  Secretary-General  —  of  prevention, 
providing  mediation  and  favouring  political  over 
military solutions, which has been one of the historical 
pillars  of  Mexican  foreign  policy.  The  General 
Assembly, the Fourth Committee, the Fifth Committee, 
and the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations 
should, in Mexico’s opinion, play an important role in 
the  discussion  of  all  proposals  presented  in  efforts  to 
define any implementation process.
We  believe  that  the  innovative  solutions  referred 
to  by  the  Secretariat  should  not  contravene  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
in  that  regard,  we  strongly  support,  for  example,  the 
Independent Panel’s recommendation that the mandates 
for  peacekeeping  operations  not  include  anti-terrorist 
activities.  At  the  same  time,  we  cannot  allow  current 
conflicts to continue to wreak havoc and past conflicts 
to  return  with  renewed  violence.  For  my  delegation, 
there is no better investment than to invest in the peace 
and  security  of  our  societies;  we  all  have  a  global 
responsibility.
In our discussion, as we carry out an analysis of the 
future of peacekeeping operations and special political 
missions,  it  is  essential  that  we  take  every  possible 
measure  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of  sexual  abuse 
perpetrated by United Nations personnel and bring to 
justice all those who have committed it. The most visible 
face  of  the  United  Nations  around  the  world  cannot 
serve  as  a  cover-up  for  that  minority.  Accountability 
must be an imperative, not just an aspiration or a goal. 
It  is  essential  that  the  civil  and  military  personnel  of 
the United Nations behave in a manner consistent with 
the values of the Organization and that all States that 
contribute  personnel  to  United  Nations  operations 
assume our responsibilities in that matter.
The  exercise  on  which  we  are  embarking  today 
ought  to  help  us  to  clearly  define  the  road  map  that 
will  enable  us  to  strengthen  the  performance  and 
the  influence  of  the  Organization  in  confronting  the 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  so  that 
we can save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of  war.  The  delegation  of  Mexico  will  continue  to 
participate  constructively 
review  process 
as  well  as  in  other  areas  that  are  being  conducted 
simultaneously, such as the Peacebuilding Commission 
and the high-level review of resolution 1325 (2000). We 
hope that those processes generate synergies and will 
reinforce each other so as to enable the United Nations 
system to offer the best possible response.
the 
in 
Ms. Faizunnesa (Bangladesh): Bangladesh aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Morocco on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The consultation process carried out by the High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  kicked 
off in the capital of Bangladesh, Dhaka. Today, we are 
indeed pleased and encouraged to see that its report (see 
A/70/95) has been issued in a timely manner. We wish 
to thank the High-level Panel and welcome its report. 
We are also particularly thankful for and welcome the 
Secretary-General’s  report  (A/70/357)  presented  this 
morning.
We  look  forward  to  the  recommendations  of  the 
High-level  Panel  being  implemented  in  an  effective 
way.  Bangladesh  remains  committed  to  supporting 
the Secretary-General’s initiative in implementing the 
High-level Panel’s report and in addressing the existing 
and projected gaps in United Nations peace operations. 
As  one  of  the  largest  troop-contributing  countries 
(TCCs)  and  police-contributing  countries  (PCCs),  we 
consider the High-level Panel’s report very important. 
The  Secretary-General  has  provided  a  pragmatic 
road  map  for  implementing  the  recommendations  in 
the  report.  We  would  like  to  see  a  full  and  effective 
implementation  of 
in  a 
transparent manner through the due involvement of the 
relevant United Nations committees and bodies.
recommendations 
those 
On 28 September, Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina, 
Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, 
26/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
in  her  capacity  as  a  host  of  the  2015  leaders’  summit 
on  United  Nations  peace  operations,  underscored 
Bangladesh’s strong and steadfast commitment to United 
Nations  peace  operations.  We  shall  support  efforts 
aimed at bringing into effect the recommendations of 
the  High-level  Panel.  We  are  ready  to  further  engage 
on  the  constructive  ideas  that  the  Secretary-General 
has  put  forward  in  his  report.  We  would  also  like  to 
urge that all the TCCs and PCCs be taken on board to 
participate in discussions and consultations during the 
implementation process.
We  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the  effort  to 
strengthen the hands of the United Nations by providing 
capable, well-trained and equipped peacekeepers to fulfil 
the mandated tasks. In that regard, let me share with the 
Assembly that Bangladesh has a state-of-the-art centre 
in situ for peace-support operations and training, which 
is  called  the  Bangladesh  Institute  of  Peace  Support 
Operation  Training.  We  are  developing  it  as  a  centre 
of  excellence  for  training  peacekeepers,  particularly 
female  peacekeepers.  With  the  evolving  nature  of 
peace  operations,  Bangladesh  has  constantly  updated 
its deployment capabilities. We have demonstrated the 
capacity  to  respond  to  the  needs  of  missions  in  high-
risk  conflict  nations  on  very  short  notice.  In  Mali, 
the  eastern  Congo  and  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Bangladesh  was  the  quickest  to  deploy  troops  under 
the Blue Helmets. We aim to promote the protection of 
civilians and the mainstreaming of gender and human 
rights issues, as well as to offer language skills to our 
peacekeepers, through training.
There  is  an  imperative  need  to  have  a  better 
system  in  place  to  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of 
peacekeepers.  As  the  Secretary-General’s  remarks 
indicated  this  morning,  we  must  show  zero  tolerance 
for sexual misconduct by peacekeepers.
Lastly,  we  wish  to  highlight  that  Bangladesh 
looks  forward  to  the  high-level  thematic  debate  to  be 
convened in May 2016 by the President of the General 
Assembly.  We  reiterate  our  full  commitment  to  the 
implementation of the High-level Panel’s report.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening this meeting on an issue of importance to the 
international community, namely, that of strengthening 
the  United  Nations  system,  and  for  enabling  Member 
States  to  express  their  views  on  the  outcome  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace  Operations.  My  thanks  also  go  to  Mr.  Ramos-
Horta,  Chair  of  the  High-level  Panel,  and  to  the 
Secretary-General for their valuable reports, contained 
in documents A/70/95 and A/70/357, respectively.
I align myself with the statement delivered by the 
representative of Morocco on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
to 
the 
While  we  are  grateful 
troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries  of  the  United  Nations 
for their efforts to assist countries in crisis, we should 
not  ignore  the  shameful  actions  of  some  individuals 
that  have  tarnished  the  efforts  of  tens  of  thousands 
of  United  Nations  peacekeepers  and  other  personnel. 
We must do more to tackle such profound challenges, 
and  we  therefore  need  new  approaches,  solutions  and 
initiatives to deal with those problems. We appreciate 
the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General  in  establishing 
a  high-level  panel  to  review  the  past  practices  of  the 
United Nations in its peace operations.
While we attach great importance to the Secretary-
General’s  report  and  respect  his  views  on  how  to 
implement  the  recommendations  in  the  High-level 
Panel’s report, the Government of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran would like to emphasize the following points.
First, we should avoid hasty implementation of the 
recommendations.  Giving  them  sufficiently  careful 
thought in an appropriate forum is a must if we want to 
have successful peacekeeping operations in the future.
Second,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  role  as  the  most  democratic  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  where  peacekeeping  operations  are 
concerned.  The  Assembly  has  the  primary  role  and 
responsibility 
formulating  concepts,  policies 
and  budgetary  decisions  relating  to  peacekeeping 
operations.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  point  out 
that, in accordance with paragraph 20 of the report of 
the  Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations 
(A/68/19),  the  Special  Committee  is  the  only  United 
Nations  forum  mandated  to  review  comprehensively 
the  whole  question  of  peacekeeping  operations  in  all 
their aspects.
for 
Third,  the  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  fully  supports  strengthening  and  enhancing 
the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  fields  of 
peacemaking, peacebuilding, peacekeeping, mediation 
and so forth, with the aim of maintaining international 
peace and security.
15-30802
27/29
A/70/PV.29 
12/10/2015
Fourth, 
independence 
in  all  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations,  we  must  respect  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign 
and 
territorial integrity of all States and of non-intervention 
in matters that are essentially within States’ domestic 
jurisdiction.
equality,  political 
Fifth, it is vital that we observe the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  all 
peace  operations,  along  with  the  basic  principles  for 
such operations that have guided them thus far, namely, 
the consent of the parties, impartiality and the non-use 
of force except in self-defence. They remain valid and 
relevant, and must be fully preserved.
Sixth,  we  must  take  great  care  when  considering 
the adoption of any new concepts aimed at addressing 
emerging  needs  and  demands  emanating  from  the 
complexity  of  peacekeeping  operations.  Any  such 
concepts  should  be  formulated  and  agreed  on  by  the 
entire  United  Nations  membership  through  a  relevant 
intergovernmental process.
Seventh,  any  contribution  in  support  of  a  host 
country in its restoration or establishment of the rule of 
law should take into account national ownership as well 
as the cultural diversity and specificity of each country.
Eighth, the role of host countries in formulating and 
implementing  activities  relating  to  the  peacebuilding 
process should be fully recognized.
Ninth,  the  protection  of  civilians  is  the  primary 
responsibility  of  the  host  country  and  should  not  be 
used as a pretext for military intervention in countries 
that are in a state of conflict or emerging from conflict.
Tenth, primary responsibility for the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  rests  with  the 
United Nations, and the role of regional arrangements 
and agencies in that regard should accord with Chapter 
VIII of the Charter.
Eleventh,  we  need  to  take  full  account  of  the 
principle  of  equitable  geographical  distribution 
in  the  staffing  and  structure  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field 
Support.
Twelfth, 
the  United  Nations  should  use 
the 
available capacities of the whole membership in peace 
operations,  including  in  the  areas  of  the  military, 
police,  civilians  and  logistics.  Any  requests  from  the 
Secretariat  for  contributions  from  Member  States  to 
peacekeeping missions should, therefore, be transparent 
and be extended to all current and potential troop- and 
police-contributing countries.
Thirteenth,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  fully 
supports  efforts  to  restore  the  quest  for  peaceful 
political  settlements  to  the  centre  of  United  Nations 
efforts to prevent and resolve conflicts.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
Lastly, it is also essential that we give full attention 
to  the  root  causes  of  conflicts,  since  it  is  clear  that 
prevention is possible only if the root causes are known.
to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s commitment to supporting any endeavour 
aimed  at  peacemaking,  peacebuilding,  peacekeeping 
and  mediation  and  to  fully  cooperating  and  working 
constructively  with  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  and  all  Member 
States in that regard.
like 
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  organizing  this 
important debate. In the wake of the work of the High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  (see 
A/70/95) and the publication of the Secretary-General’s 
report on the recommendations of the High-level Panel 
(A/70/357), it is essential that we maintain the current 
momentum  in  order  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  conflict-prevention  architecture. 
At  this  point,  instead  of  deeply  into  the  rich  subject 
matter  before  us,  Switzerland  we  will  simply  make 
some  general  remarks  on  the  two  reports  and  on  the 
way forward.
Switzerland welcomes the report of the High-level 
Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  and  looks 
forward to the implementation of its recommendations. 
The  High-level  Panel  was  able  to  provide  a  balanced 
analysis  and  a  set  of  recommendations  that  should 
be  carefully  examined.  That  was  made  possible,  in 
particular, by extensive consultations among all of the 
stakeholders  involved  in  peace  operations,  including 
Member States.
further  elaborates 
Switzerland  also  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General,  which 
the 
fundamental challenges that often significantly impede 
the  effective  functioning  of  peacekeeping  operations 
and special political missions, which include, inter alia, 
the  lack  of  resources  in  certain  areas  and  the  lack  of 
adequate  structures  and  procedures.  We  welcome  the 
conclusion  of  the  Secretary-General  expressed  in  his 
three  priorities.  They  pave  the  way  forward  for  both 
political solutions and improved administration.
28/29 
15-30802
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.29
To  implement  the  recommendations  effectively,  it 
is  advisable  to  develop  a  road  map  that  appropriately 
sets out the tasks of the various United Nations bodies, 
including the Secretariat, and the areas of responsibility 
of  the  Security  Council  and  Member  States  in  the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations.  Such  a  road 
map would outline the various stages of implementation 
of the recommendations.
In  that  context,  Switzerland  shares  the  view 
expressed  in  the  report  that  only  a  joint  approach 
will  lead  to  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
recommendations. Indeed, no single entity will be able 
to address the current challenges to peace and security. 
Close  cooperation  throughout  the  United  Nations 
system and the establishment of ongoing partnerships 
between the various competent agencies and actors is 
essential.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
15-30802
29/29
