United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
36th plenary meeting
Monday, 19 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Aboulatta 
(Egypt), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 9 and 15 (continued)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council (A/70/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/140)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and fosllow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
The  Acting  President: 
In  connection  with 
agenda  item  9,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  pursuant 
to  resolution  58/316,  of  1  July  2004,  the  Assembly, 
on  the  recommendation  of  the  General  Committee, 
decided, at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 18 September, 
to consider agenda item 9 in its entirety in plenary, on 
the  understanding  that  the  administrative  programme 
and budgetary aspects should be dealt with by the Fifth 
Committee.
At the same meeting, the Assembly took note of the 
clarification that, in implementing resolution 58/316 to 
consider item 9 in its entirety in plenary, the relevant 
parts of Chapter I of the report (A/70/3) that are under 
agenda items already allocated to the Main Committees 
will  be  considered  by  the  Committee  concerned  for 
final action by the General Assembly.
In  connection  with  agenda  item  15,  members 
will  recall  that  pursuant  to  resolution  57/270  B,  the 
Assembly  decided  to  consider  under  the  item  the 
chapter of the annual report of the Economic and Social 
Council  relevant  to  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
including through the participation of the President of 
the Council in its discussions.
I now give the floor to the President of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oh  Joon,  to 
introduce the report of the Council.
Mr.  Oh  Joon  (Republic  of  Korea),  President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council:  I  have  the  honour 
to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  for  2015  (A/70/3). 
This has been a highly productive and significant year 
for the work of the Economic and Social Council, laying 
a solid foundation for the 2015 session of the Council.
the  General  Assembly  on 
Before  I  highlight  some  of  the  key  results  and 
messages from the 2015 session, I wish to congratulate 
the  President  of 
the 
outstanding  success  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Summit held last month and the adoption of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
Our intergovernmental bodies and forums, particularly 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council system and the High-level Political Forum on 
Sustainable  Development,  held  under  the  auspices  of 
both the Economic and Social Council and the General 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-32050 (E)
*1532050*
A/70/PV.36 
19/10/2015
Assembly, will need to work closely together to support 
the implementation of the new Agenda.
One  important  requirement  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  the  need  for  Member  States 
to  formulate  integrated  policies  that  foster  balanced 
consideration  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
issues,  ensuring  synergies  across  multiple  sectors. 
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  committed  to 
supporting  Member  States  in  that  policy  integration 
effort and in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. I 
can assure Member States that the entire Economic and 
Social  Council  system,  including  the  functional  and 
regional  commissions,  committees  and  expert  bodies, 
is mobilized towards that end.
In  our  2015  session, 
the  Council  continued 
to  support  the  transition  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  through  the  main  theme 
of  “Managing  the  transition  from  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals: What it will take”. We drew upon the experience 
of  implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
which  showed  that  development  goals  translate  into 
results  most  effectively  when  they  are  supported  by 
comprehensive  and  integrated  policies.  In  that  vein,  I 
would like to highlight four key messages of the 2015 
session of Economic and Social Council.
improved  coordination  and 
First, increasingly complex development challenges 
call  for  coordinated  and  integrated  policy  responses. 
That  requires  not  only  a  deepening  of  cooperation 
at  the  country,  regional  and  global  levels,  but  also 
strengthened integration across the three dimensions of 
sustainable  development.  Secondly,  strong,  adaptable 
and  inclusive  institutions  at  all  levels  are  necessary 
for  such 
integration. 
Thirdly, realizing the global partnership for sustainable 
development is critical to meeting the demands of the 
new Agenda. That global partnership must be built on 
a clear understanding of the roles and responsibilities 
of  all  partners,  national  and  international,  as  well  as 
public  and  private.  Finally,  an  effective  and  inclusive 
follow-up  process  to  ensure  full  implementation  will 
be vital to the success of the 2030 Agenda. Empirical 
evidence and the use of data must support the follow-up 
and review.
Through  its  2015  cycle,  the  Council  diligently 
executed its reform measures arising from the General 
Assembly’s strengthening of the Council, addressed a 
broad  range  of  themes  and  brought  together  different 
for 
development  actors  by  convening  a  forward-looking 
dialogue on the longer-term positioning of the United 
Nations  development  system  and  the  readiness  of 
its  operational  activities;  applying  the  integration  of 
the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development  to 
employment  creation  and  decent  work;  advancing 
financing 
the 
coordination of humanitarian assistance of the United 
Nations; conducting a review of its main theme, including 
through  national  voluntary  presentations  on  what  it 
will  take  to  manage  the  transition  to  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals; considering the role and features 
of multi-stakeholder partnerships in implementing the 
2030 Agenda; and incorporating youth perspectives in 
the international dialogue on development.
strengthening 
development; 
I am particularly pleased that our work culminated 
in  the  2015  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  which  included  a  three-day 
ministerial  meeting  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development.  That  meeting  made 
significant  contributions  to  our  collective  efforts  to 
transition to the new 2030 Agenda. The second meeting 
of  the  Forum,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Council, 
cemented  the  Forum  as  a  platform  for  dialogue  and 
political  guidance,  and  its  discussions  advanced  our 
vision for the Forum beyond 2015.
for 
I  would  also  like  to  recognize  the  invaluable 
contribution of the whole Economic and Social Council 
system. The high-level engagements of the Council in 
helping to shape the contours of the new Agenda were 
possible  because  of  growing  coordination  among  its 
constituent  parts,  namely,  the  functional  and  regional 
commissions, committees and expert bodies.
The  2016  session  will  be  crucial 
the 
Economic and Social Council as we lead in the global 
implementation  and  review  of  the  2030  Agenda.  The 
Economic  and  Social  Council  forum  on  financing  for 
development  follow-up  and  review,  mandated  by  the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda, will be convened for the 
first time during that session. It will include a special 
high-level meeting of the Council with the World Bank, 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade and Development.
The  2016  annual 
the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development:  Moving 
from  commitments  to  results”,  reflects  the  Council’s 
commitment  to  tackling  the  challenging  task  ahead 
theme,  “Implementing 
2/8 
15-32050
19/10/2015 
A/70/PV.36
of  us.  We  stand  ready  to  align  our  substantive  and 
organizational support for sustainable development. The 
Council will ensure that the High-level Political Forum 
and all segments and meetings of the 2016 session bring 
together  valuable  contributions  to  support  that  task. 
The  whole  Economic  and  Social  Council  system  will 
serve as a harmonized, coherent and effective platform 
for delivering concrete results for people and the planet. 
On behalf of the Economic and Social Council Bureau, 
I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  strong 
collaboration  and  support  of  Member  States  and  the 
United Nations development system. We look forward 
to continued collaboration and engagement in the 2016 
session.
Mr. Mandaviya (India): I am honoured to address 
the  General  Assembly  during  the  historic  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Organization 
embodies  humankind’s  faith  in  dialogue  over  war 
and  in  collective  progress  over  individual  gains.  As 
it  celebrates  its  seventieth  anniversary,  its  founding 
creed of maintaining international peace and security, 
developing  friendly  relations  among  nations  and 
promoting social progress, better living standards and 
human rights for all is more relevant than ever.
India attaches great importance to the work of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  The  Council  plays  an 
important  role  as  a  principal  body  for  coordination, 
policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and  recommendations 
on issues of economic and social development. As we 
transition  into  the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  which 
is  a  path-
breaking  new  template  for  action  across  the  three 
dimensions  of  economic  growth,  social  inclusion  and 
environmental  protection,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s  effective  discharge  of  its  functions  will  be 
of even greater importance. Of equal importance will 
be for the Economic and Social Council to rejuvenate 
itself,  making  it  more  action-oriented,  policy-relevant 
and responsive to the new Development Agenda.
We are grateful for the report of the Economic and 
Social  Council  for  2015  (A/70/3).  The  report  usefully 
enumerates  the  activities  of  the  Council  during  that 
period.  We  commend  the  outgoing  President  and  the 
Bureau  for  their  stewardship  of  its  activities.  I  would 
like  to  extend  our  congratulations  to  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  on  his 
assumption of the current presidency of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  and  assure  him  of  our  steadfast 
support of him and the Bureau in their work.
Among the important discussions organized by the 
Economic and Social Council in the past session was the 
dialogue on the longer-term positioning of the United 
Nations development system — a discussion made all 
the more topical by the new Development Agenda. We 
commend the efforts of the Permanent Representative 
of  Colombia  for  her  stewardship  of  the  dialogue  and 
welcome the Permanent Representative of Argentina as 
the incoming chair of the dialogue this year.
As  the  Prime  Minister  of  India,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Narendra Modi, emphasized in his address to the 
General Assembly this year,
“the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) is lofty, and its Goals are equally 
comprehensive.  It  gives  priority  to  problems  that 
have  persisted  over  the  past  decades  and  reflects 
our  evolving  understanding  of  social,  economic 
and environmental issues” (A/70/PV.4, p. 17).
India  was  a  key  and  active  participant  in  the 
process  that  led  to  the  adoption  of  the  new  Agenda 
with  a  set  of  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
at  its  core.  India’s  voice  in  the  negotiations  was  that 
of  all  developing  countries.  We  now  look  forward  to 
working closely with all delegations to ensure that the 
2030  Agenda  is  implemented  according  to  its  letter 
and  spirit.  In  fulfilling  that  objective,  the  Economic 
and Social Council and the High-level Political Forum 
will  play  a  central  role.  It  is  our  expectation  that  the 
Economic and Social Council will address sustainable 
development  challenges,  seen  through  the  prism  of 
poverty  eradication,  as  our  central  and  overarching 
objective.  Ending  poverty  by  2030,  which  subsumes 
the  provision  of  essential  amenities  for  a  dignified 
existence  —  such  as  food,  clean  water,  sanitation, 
electricity,  good  health,  literacy,  transportation  and  a 
roof over one’s head —is rightly at the core of the 2030 
Agenda.
It is our expectation that the Economic and Social 
Council  will  prioritize  the  attainment  of  robust  and 
inclusive  economic  growth  in  developing  countries, 
and to that end it will strengthen the partnership among 
developed  and  developing  countries  to  make  it  more 
meaningful. It is also our expectation that the Council 
will address the issue of environmental degradation and 
climate  change  with  a  sense  of  urgency,  focusing  on 
reforming  unsustainable  consumption  patterns  in  the 
developed countries and affording enhanced financial 
and  technological  support  to  developing  countries  in 
15-32050
3/8
A/70/PV.36 
19/10/2015
transitioning  their  economies  to  progressively  more 
sustainable pathways.
Council and to actively and constructively engaging in 
its work in the coming months.
India’s  success  in  sustaining  robust  economic 
growth to eradicate poverty will contribute in no small 
measure  to  the  global  achievement  of  the  SDGs.  The 
process  of  doing  so  will  bring  forth  technologies  and 
pathways  leading  to  progress  that  can  be  shared  with 
other developing countries so as to enable them to also 
achieve sustainable development.
India  is  fully  committed  to  ensuring  a  life  of 
dignity to all its people. To that end, the Government 
of  Prime  Minister  Modi  has  renewed  its  efforts  to 
return India to a high-growth trajectory, promote job-
rich industrial development — including through rapid 
skill development for our young population — financial 
inclusion, 
the  protection  and  welfare  of  female 
children, agricultural renovation, and a massive drive 
for improved sanitation.
At  the  same  time,  we  in  India  realize  that  the 
pursuit  of  economic  growth  and  development  cannot 
be  business  as  usual.  Although  we  did  not  create  the 
problem, India has every intention of being a part of the 
solution when it comes to climate change. The solution 
lies in pursuing policies that, rather than blindly aping 
the  development  model  that  has  brought  humankind 
into  a  clash  with  nature,  promote  a  more  holistic 
relationship  between  growth  and  the  environment. 
Prime Minister Modi has sought to do this by harkening 
back to our civilizational ethos of harmony with nature, 
or  treating  nature  as  a  partner,  not  as  an  adversary. 
Prime  Minister  Modi  has  spoken  of  achieving  the 
same  level  of  development,  prosperity  and  well-being 
without going down the path of reckless consumption. 
His  belief  is  that  doing  so  does  not  necessarily  mean 
that our economies will suffer, but rather that they will 
take on different characters.
India’s planned objectives of adding 175 gigawatts 
of  clean  and  renewable  energy  to  our  energy  mix; 
reducing  the  energy  intensity  of  our  gross  domestic 
product by 35 per cent by 2030; achieving 40 per cent 
of  electricity  generation  from  non-fossil  fuel  sources; 
and  creating  an  additional  forest  sink  of  2.5-3  billion 
tons  of  equivalent  carbon  dioxide  are  evidence  of 
our  seriousness 
the  environmental 
sustainability of our growth.
in  addressing 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
to  reiterate  India’s 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Ms. AlGharabally (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): Let 
me begin by reaffirming my delegation’s commitment  
to  participating  in  the  discussion  on  the  report  of  the 
Economic and Social Council (A/70/3), one of the most 
important items on the United Nations agenda. I would 
also like to thank States members of the Economic and 
Social Council for their efforts and their contributions. 
Indeed, they have worked with my country to overcome 
all major obstacles and to contribute effectively to the 
excellent  activities  undertaken  by  the  Economic  and 
Social Council during the most recent meeting.
I would like to congratulate Ms. Thurayya Ahmed 
Obaid on winning the 2015 United Nations Population 
Award,  which  recognizes  her  perseverance  in  raising 
awareness  on  population  issues.  We  would  also  like 
to  congratulate  the  African  Population  and  Health 
Research  Centre,  in  Kenya,  which  has  conducted 
research on population, education and health issues for 
the past 20 years.
We welcome resolution 61/16, on the strengthening 
of the Economic and Social Council. The measures and 
procedures  adopted  in  that  resolution  can  strengthen 
the role of the Economic and Social Council as a central 
forum  for  coordinating  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations and its specialized agencies, and for overseeing 
the work of its subsidiary bodies in the economic, social 
and environmental fields. Its goal is to bolster the role of 
the Economic and Social Council so that it can assume 
the  responsibility  it  has  been  granted.  I  also  wish  to 
say that Kuwait’s mandate in the Economic and Social 
Council will be ending in December. We are convinced 
that the Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary 
bodies play an essential role and, as such, we would like 
to thank all member States for their support to the State 
of Kuwait. Kuwait was elected to the Commission on 
the Status of Women for a term of four years beginning 
in 2016 in order to complete the efforts undertaken by 
Kuwait in this area.
The  entire  international  community  is  facing  a 
number of obstacles and challenges. Furthermore, in the 
past 15 years, the world has seen many crises, including 
an  increase  in  the  number  of  natural  disasters  and  in 
the  temperature  on  land,  which  has  led  the  countries 
of the world to adopt the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals in their three dimensions: economic, social and 
environmental. This provides a road map for renewed 
4/8 
15-32050
19/10/2015 
A/70/PV.36
hope for working together. We should be more united 
than ever in our efforts. We must also support the role 
of the Economic and Social Council, the international 
high-level  forum  responsible  for  achieving  social  and 
economic development. In that way, we can provide a 
decent life for all and promote the improvement of the 
living conditions for all peoples by eliminating poverty 
between now and 2030. This represents a key pillar in 
the United Nations work in the context of the post-2015 
development agenda.
In  that  context,  we  will  have  to  face  a  number 
of  challenges  in  future.  It  is  therefore  important  to 
implement  the  various  outcomes  of  the  development 
Summit  and  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  to  underscore  the  importance  of  climate  change. 
The United Nations entities, the Economic and Social 
Council and the General Assembly must work together 
to  that  end.  It  is  especially  important  to  improve  the 
assessment and follow-up methods for the Sustainable 
Development Goals at the high-level political meeting 
of the Economic and Social Council under the auspices 
of the United Nations.
In addition to holding a seat on the Economic and 
Social Council, Kuwait is eager to assume its regional 
and  international  responsibilities  for  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  addressing  our 
various  problems  effectively  and  constructively.  My 
country  has  therefore  held  a  number  of  high-level 
meetings  in  recent  years  on  economic,  humanitarian 
and  development  issues,  and  launched  a  number  of 
initiatives  to  strengthen  partnerships  and  cooperation 
in the area of development and humanitarian issues. We 
have spared no effort to provide assistance to developing 
States  through  various  institutions,  including  the 
Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Development.  We 
have  also  provided  voluntary  contributions  and  loans 
to  a  number  of  infrastructure  projects  for  developing 
States, and we have provided 1.4 per cent of our gross 
domestic  product  in  the  form  of  contributions  and 
assistance.  That  is  double  the  internationally  agreed 
rate.
Kuwait is committed to undertaking greater efforts 
to achieve sustainable development, eliminate poverty 
and  take  advantage  of  international  knowledge  and 
information, and the various experiences of the United 
Nations with a view to defining strategic priorities in 
the economic, social and environmental fields.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  that  Kuwait  is 
fully committed to implementing the outcomes of the 
meetings  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its 
subsidiary  bodies.  We  attach  particular  importance 
to  the  activities  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
to  promote  economic  cooperation  aimed  at  boosting 
development  so  that  it  will  be  possible  to  achieve 
the  objectives  to  which  we  all  aspire:  the  elimination 
of  poverty  and  non-communicable  diseases  and  the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
We also support international and regional institutions 
that  work  in  the  area  of  development  so  that  they 
contribute to the implementation of agreed Sustainable 
Development  Goals, 
least 
developed  and  developing  countries  in  achieving  the 
Goals.
including  by  assisting 
the  adoption  of 
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation welcomes the annual report of the Economic 
and Social Council for 2015 (A/70/3). I want to thank 
Ambassador  Oh  Joon,  Permanent  Representative  of 
the Republic of Korea and President of the Economic 
and Social Council, and Ambassador Sajdik, who was 
President of the Council during the first half of 2015, for 
their effective management of its work. I also want to 
highlight the work of the other members of the Bureau 
of the Economic and Social Council and the support of 
the Secretariat.
Following 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on  financing  for 
development, 
the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  has  assumed  a  more  important  role 
than  previously.  It  has  now  become  the  platform  for 
coordinating  the  development  activities  at  the  global, 
regional and national levels. The discussions that took 
place during the major negotiating processes this year 
have shown that the successful implementation of such 
an  ambitious  and  transformative  development  agenda 
can be achieved only through genuine partnerships with 
the  various  development  stakeholders.  The  Economic 
and Social Council has the knowledge, experience and 
strength necessary to do this, which it derives from its 
cooperation  with  its  subsidiary  bodies,  including  the 
regional commissions.
it 
is  clear 
that 
The  universal  nature  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  means  that  it  applies  to  all 
countries  and  is  also  a  recognition  of  the  growing 
interdependence of today’s world. But another principle 
at  the  heart  of  the  Agenda  is  integration,  which  is 
15-32050
5/8
A/70/PV.36 
19/10/2015
also  the  key  to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  system  at  the  levels  of  policy  analysis  and 
implementation.
At  this  point,  I  would  like  especially  to  express 
gratitude  for  and  acknowledge  the  work  undertaken 
by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Colombia, 
Ambassador Mejía Vélez, and the team of the Colombian 
Mission for managing the first phase of the dialogue of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  the  longer-term 
positioning of the United Nations development system. 
My  country,  as  Vice-President  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, took responsibility for the segment on 
operational activities for development and thus of the 
second phase of the dialogue. We are convinced that the 
United Nations development system should be adjusted 
to  better  support  the  implementation  of  the  new 
Agenda. It is necessary to effectively implement, at all 
levels of the system, the mandates that are established 
in resolution 67/226 on the quadrennial comprehensive 
policy review in order for the system to position itself 
correctly in the long term.
to  carry  out  valuable  and 
The  dialogue  has  proved  to  be  an  excellent 
opportunity 
inclusive 
technical discussions from a system-wide perspective. 
The bases were laid down to that end by the presidency 
of  Ambassador  Mejía  Vélez.  As  we  start  the  second 
phase, we must shape all these concepts into concrete 
recommendations  that  contribute  to  an  ambitious 
General  Assembly  resolution  on 
the  quadrennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  by  late  2016,  aimed  at 
adjusting  the  United  Nations  development  system 
in  order  to  improve  the  support  it  affords  to  the 
implementation of the new Agenda.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  saying  that  we  believe  that 
the Economic and Social Council is the most important 
intergovernmental  body  in  the  pursuit  of  two  major, 
closely  interrelated  goals:  the  eradication  of  poverty 
and the achievement of the integration of the economic, 
social  and  environmental  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development.  As  a  member  of  the  Bureau  of  the 
Economic and Social Council, Argentina will continue 
working to ensure that the Council can effectively carry 
out its work.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): I would like to thank the 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Korea for 
introducing  the  excellent  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council (A/70/3).
importance 
to 
special 
Egypt  attaches 
the 
implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the 
major United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields. We do so in view of 
their contribution to the formation of an international 
sustainable  development  work  programme  based  on 
inclusiveness, respect and solidarity. However, despite 
all  these  efforts  over  the  past  decades  in  the  field  of 
sustainable development, a significant proportion of the 
decisions and outcomes of the summits and conferences 
in the economic and social fields are yet to achieve the 
level of implementation to which we aspire.
in 
The  General  Assembly  has  always  advanced 
poverty  eradication  and  other  related  development 
issues  through  the  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related  fields. 
These  conferences  and  summits  resulted 
the 
emergence  of  a  global  consensus  on  a  shared  vision 
for 
sustainable  development,  which  culminated 
most recently in the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development.  The  2030 
Agenda, which is an additional platform to reinvigorate 
the  synergies  between  the  outcomes  of  the  various 
conferences and summits, articulated that the allocation 
of resources for the development of appropriate national 
and  international  policies  and  integrated  follow-up 
and  implementation  are  an  imperative  for  achieving 
sustainable  development.  In  this  regard,  let  me  share 
the following thoughts.
First,  the  absence  of  a  clear  commitment  to 
providing the necessary means of implementation and 
internationally  agreed  financing,  including  for  the 
operational activities of the United Nations in the field 
of  development,  remains  a  major  hurdle  to  achieving 
sustainable development. The recent trends of declining 
official  development  assistance  commitments  and  the 
continuing  decline  in  programme  budget  financing 
in  favour  of  voluntary  funding  compound  the  lack  of 
predictability  in  financing  sustainable  development. 
Moreover, they run contrary to the spirit of the major 
outcomes of United Nations conferences and summits, 
which emphasize the principles of national ownership, 
sovereignty  and  national  policy  space.  As  such,  the 
efforts  of  developing  countries  towards  achieving 
sustainable  development  are  still  lacking  sufficient 
means  of  implementation,  as  well  as  a  favourable 
international  climate.  The  quantity  and  quality  of 
6/8 
15-32050
19/10/2015 
A/70/PV.36
official development assistance provided to developing 
countries should be enhanced, international initiatives 
to reduce debt should be strengthened, and a formula 
addressing  the  imbalance  in  the  international  trading 
system should be found.
Secondly,  while  the  implementation  and  follow-
up  mechanisms  and  coordination  of  these  outcomes 
already exist in the General Assembly and the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  the  political  will  to  ensure  their 
fulfilment  at  all  levels,  including  at  the  international 
level,  remains  elusive.  Indeed,  at  some  point  the 
exaggerated emphasis on implementation at the national 
level in developing countries, while not placing similar 
importance  on 
implementing  commitments  either 
by  developed  countries  or  at  the  international  level, 
detracts  from  the  universality  of  these  outcomes  and 
their global intent.
Thirdly,  we  underscore  the  importance  of  efforts 
to support the work of the High-level Political Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development  to  provide  the  political 
leadership  and  direction  necessary  to  implement  the 
ambitious 2030 Agenda and promote the integration of 
the three dimensions of sustainable development at all 
levels, and of ensuring the implementation and follow-
up of all United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic,  social  and  environmental  fields,  including 
the means of implementation.
Fourthly,  in  the  light  of  all  this,  the  coordinated 
follow-up  of  the  integrated  decisions  of  summits  and 
conferences  requires  improving  the  Organization’s 
performance  and  raising  the  efficiency  of  services 
provided  within  the  framework  through  maximizing 
the  utilization  of  available  resources.  As  such,  there 
is a need to tread with caution with respect to issuing 
new mandates or replacing follow-up mechanisms and 
reviews with processes already in place.
Finally  and  in  conclusion,  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  to  maintain  the  credibility  of  the  General 
Assembly  as  well  as  that  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  in  dealing  with  international  development 
challenges  through  the  faithful  implementation  of, 
effective follow-up to and respect for the outcomes of 
the  major  conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic, 
social  and  related  fields.  That  could  be  achieved 
through  coordinated  and  effective  implementation; 
otherwise,  less  than  universal  implementation  would 
ultimately  result  in  the  erosion  of  the  credibility  of 
concerted international action in the area of sustainable 
development,  which  would  undermine  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  —  a  possibility  that  we  all  wish  and 
indeed have the means to avoid.
Mr. Shava (Zimbabwe): I would like to extend our 
appreciation to the President of the Economic and Social 
Council,  Ambassador  Oh  Joon,  for  his  informative 
presentation of the Council’s report for 2015 (A/70/3).
than 
implementation 
The  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) requires an 
integrated,  coordinated  and  universal  response.  The 
new Agenda therefore adopts a high level of ambition 
and  poses  a  significantly  more  formidable  challenge 
for 
the  earlier  Millennium 
Development  Goals  agenda.  While  the  eradication 
of  poverty  remains  at  the  heart  of  the  new  Agenda, 
along  with  advancing 
sustainable  development, 
other  critical  challenges  —  including  those  resulting 
from  climate  change,  urbanization  and  increasing 
interdependence  —  have  grown  in  importance.  There 
are also significant interlinkages and interdependencies 
among  the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
targets.  For  example,  the  Goals  related  to  ending 
poverty in all its forms everywhere, the promotion of 
sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 
full  and  productive  employment  and  decent  work  for 
all, and the reduction of inequality within and among 
countries are highly integrated and interrelated.
Consequently,  as  we  welcome  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council’s  report  to  the  General  Assembly, 
we  would  like  to  underline  the  important  role  for  the 
Council and the Economic and Social Council system 
as  a  whole  in  addressing  those  interrelationships,  as 
well  as  the  integration  and  coordination  of  policy 
responses.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
High-level  Political  Forum  will  play  a  central  role  in 
the follow-up and review of the 2030 Agenda and the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  at  the  global  level.  The 
need  for  a  revitalized  global  partnership  cannot  be 
overemphasized, and the dialogue with the international 
financial  and  trade  institutions  should  contribute  to 
the  development  of  practical  mechanisms  to  mobilize 
resources for implementation.
We  expect 
the  Committee  of  Experts  on 
International Cooperation in Tax Matters to contribute 
to measures to address illicit financial flows, which are 
bleeding significant resources from African and other 
developing countries. The Multi-stakeholder Forum on 
Science,  Technology  and  Innovation,  the  Technology 
15-32050
7/8
A/70/PV.36 
19/10/2015
Facilitation  Mechanism  and  the  Global  Infrastructure 
Forum  need  to  be  operationalized.  It  will  therefore 
be  critical  for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
define  how  it  will  carry  out  its  important  follow-up 
mandate  going  forward.  Addressing  those  issues  will 
determine  some  of  the  changes  required  at  all  levels 
for  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and moving from commitment to results.
In view of the issues we have highlighted, the 2016 
Economic  and  Social  Council  theme  “Implementing 
the  post-2015  development  agenda:  Moving  from 
commitments  to  results”  is  timely  and  fitting.  All 
countries  therefore  will  need  to  work  together  and 
regularly share progress on implementation, particularly 
through  voluntary  reports  to  the  High-level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development.  We  also  see  an 
important  role  for  the  United  Nations  in  promoting, 
implementing and facilitating follow-up to the Agenda 
at the national, regional and global levels.
The Acting President: May I take it that the General 
Assembly takes note of the report of the Economic and 
Social Council contained in document A/70/3?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
items 9 and 15.
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Specific meeting focused on development
The Acting President: I have been informed that 
no member State has requested to take the floor under 
this  item.  The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 116.
The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
8/8 
15-32050
