United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
53rd plenary meeting
Monday, 16 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 67
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/70/53)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
connection  with  item  67,  I  recall  that  the  General 
Assembly  decided,  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on 
18  September,  to  consider  agenda  item  67  in  plenary 
meeting  and  in  the  Third  Committee,  pursuant  to 
resolution 65/281, of 17 June 2011.
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
65/281,  of  17  June  2011,  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr.  Joachim  Rücker,  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.
Mr.  Rücker  (Germany),  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council:  It  is  an  honour  to  be  here  today  to 
present the annual report of the Human Rights Council 
(A/70/53) to the General Assembly.
(spoke in French)
The Council is shocked by the horrendous terrorist 
attacks  in  Paris,  Baghdad  and  Beirut.  On  behalf  of 
the Council and on my own behalf, I wish to offer our 
sympathies to the families of the victims and the people 
of those countries. We stand united as men and women 
who are defending human rights.
(spoke in English)
thereto.  In 
Let me, at the outset, congratulate the newly elected 
members of the Council for the period 2016-2018 and 
wish them all a successful term. The General Assembly 
decided,  in  its  resolution  60/251,  that  membership 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  open  to  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Furthermore,  the 
General  Assembly  decided  that  States  shall  take  into 
account the contribution of candidates to the promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  and  their  voluntary 
pledges  and  commitments  made 
that 
context, the Geneva community and I took note of the 
voluntary pledges made by some States. We also took 
note of the event on 15 July 2015 organized by Amnesty 
International and the International Service for Human 
Rights,  with  the  co-sponsorship  of  the  Permanent 
Missions  of  Botswana,  Brazil  and  the  Netherlands, 
in  which  some  of  the  candidates  participated.  The 
General  Assembly  also  decided  that  members  elected 
to  the  Council  shall  uphold  the  highest  standards  in 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  and 
fully  cooperate  with  the  Council.  With  regard  to  the 
latter, namely, cooperation with the Council, I call on 
all States, and in particular all States members of the 
Human  Rights  Council  that  have  not  yet  done  so,  to 
issue standing invitations to the Council mechanisms.
The  year  2015  marks  the  ninth  year  since  the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  As  it 
enters  its  tenth  year,  the  Council’s  record  testifies  to 
high  responsiveness  in  dealing  with  human  rights 
issues  all  over  the  world.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
has continued to be actively engaged in cases of urgent 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-36749 (E)
*1536749*
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
and  chronic  violations  of  human  rights.  In  2015,  in 
addition to its regular sessions, one special session was 
held,  along  with  an  enhanced  interactive  dialogue  on 
migration during the June session, and a new procedure 
for informal briefings with the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights was added to the Council’s toolbox.
A total of 137 resolutions, decisions and President’s 
statements  were  adopted  in  2015,  84  of  them  without 
a  vote.  As  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  I 
believe  that  we  should  strive  for  as  much  consensus 
as  possible  and  as  much  voting  as  necessary.  Many 
of  the  resolutions,  including  on  country  issues,  were 
cross-regional initiatives, affirming the resolve of the 
Council to take action on important human rights issues 
by  overcoming  different  political  positions.  One  such 
example is the resolution on promoting reconciliation, 
accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka, which was 
adopted in September by consensus and co-sponsored 
by  Sri  Lanka.  Another  is  the  resolution  on  the  rights 
of the child, which is negotiated in Geneva during the 
March session.
Let  me  briefly  summarize  some  of  the  Council’s 
country-specific decisions that were taken in the course 
of the year. Syria has continued to be high on the agenda 
of the Council throughout the year, and the mandate of 
the  Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry 
on  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  has  been  extended  once 
again. The Commission of Inquiry, which presented its 
tenth report in September, once again documents gross 
human rights violations that are massive in extent and 
scope.
reports 
from 
The  Council  also  heard 
the 
Commission of Inquiry on Eritrea and from the Special 
Rapporteur  for  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. The Commission of Inquiry on Eritrea was set 
up  to  investigate  systematic,  widespread  and  grave 
violations of human rights with a view to ensuring full 
accountability,  including  where  such  violations  may 
amount to crimes against humanity.
In April, the Council held a special session in the 
light  of  the  terrorist  attacks  and  human  rights  abuses 
and violations committed by the terrorist group Boko 
Haram. It requested the Office of the High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  to  work  in  close  cooperation  and 
consultation with States affected by acts perpetrated by 
the terrorist group Boko Haram and collect information 
from  them  in  order  to  prepare  a  report  on  violations 
and  abuses  of  human  rights  and  atrocities  committed 
by  the  group,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  accountability. 
The  Council  also  reaffirmed  that  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights for all and the rule of law are 
essential in the fight against terrorism, and recognized 
that  effective  counter-terrorism  measures  and  the 
protection of human rights can only be complementary 
and are mutually reinforcing.
The  Independent  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  the 
2014  Gaza  conflict  presented  its  report  in  June  and 
pointed  to  the  possible  commission  of  war  crimes  by 
both Israel and Palestinian armed groups and outlined 
a  number  of  steps  for  the  international  community  to 
take. In March, the High Commissioner was requested 
to urgently dispatch a mission to investigate violations 
and abuses of international human rights law committed 
in Libya since 2014. He was also asked to strengthen the 
presence of the Office for the High Commissioner for 
Refugees in Palestine. Another mission was mandated 
to monitor and report on the human rights situation in 
South Sudan with a view to ensuring accountability and 
complementarity with the African Union Commission 
of Inquiry. The Council also extended existing country-
specific  special  procedures  mandates  —  Special 
Rapporteurs  and  Independent  Experts  —  on  Belarus, 
Cambodia, the Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Eritrea, the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, Mali, Myanmar, Somalia and 
the Sudan.
During  its  three  most  recent  regular  sessions,  the 
Council  has  held,  among  other  debates,  a  total  of  17 
panel  discussions  with  panellists,  including  a  variety 
of stakeholders, on themes such as the question of the 
death  penalty,  climate  change,  the  rights  of  persons 
with  disabilities,  the  state  of  racial  discrimination 
worldwide,  the  rights  of  the  child,  equal  enjoyment 
by  every  girl  of  the  right  to  education,  the  effects  of 
terrorism on the enjoyment of human rights, the rights of 
women, unilateral coercive measures, good governance 
in  public  service  and  the  impact  of  the  world  drug 
problem on the enjoyment of human rights. The Council 
also  held  a  panel  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. This year’s 
high-level  panel  discussion  on  mainstreaming  human 
rights  focused  on  the  enhancement  of  international 
cooperation in the field of human rights. In 2016, at its 
tenth anniversary, the mainstreaming panel, with heads 
and  senior  officials  of  United  Nations  agencies,  will 
focus on the Sustainable Development Goals and human 
rights, with an emphasis on the right to development.
2/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
The  Council  also  established  two  new  special 
procedures mandates — one on the enjoyment of human 
rights  by  persons  with  albinism  and  the  other  on  the 
right to privacy. All in all, there are now 56 mandates 
in total covering both country and thematic mandates. 
Former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  once  called 
them  the  crown  jewels  of  the  human  rights  system, 
and  indeed,  special  procedures  are  the  Council’s  and 
the  international  community’s  eyes  and  ears,  as  they 
monitor,  report  and  advise  on  human  rights  issues 
throughout the world. As of 11 November, 114 Member 
States and one non-member observer State had extended 
a  standing  invitation  to  thematic  special  procedures. 
In line with resolution 60/251, I call on all States that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  issue  standing  invitations  to 
the  special  procedures  mandate-holders  and  to  fully 
cooperate with the Council’s mechanisms, including by 
implementing  their  recommendations,  in  an  effort  to 
strengthen human rights worldwide.
to 
leading 
The Council has also made progress on enhancing 
its  functionality  by,  among  other  things,  adopting  a 
President’s  statement  at  the  June  session.  The  many 
discussions 
that  President’s  statement 
touched  on  many  more  aspects  and  showed  the  need 
not only to implement the statement, as a step forward, 
but  also  to  continue  discussing  those  matters.  In  that 
context,  I  also  see  a  need  for  better  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  Geneva  and  New  York,  with  a 
view  to  minimizing  unnecessary  duplication,  being 
more 
resource-efficient  and,  ultimately,  working 
together to strengthen the United Nations human rights 
system.
I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
we  have  continued  to  make  the  work  of  the  Council 
accessible to persons with disabilities, pursuant to the 
legal  obligations  arising  from  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in line with the 
mandate given to the Council’s task force on that issue. 
At  every  session  of  the  Council,  one  panel  was  made 
accessible, in addition to the annual panel on the rights 
of persons with disabilities. At the most recent session 
of  the  Council  in  September,  the  panel  discussion  on 
a  human  rights-based  approach  to  good  governance 
in  public  service  was  made  accessible  through  the 
provision of international sign-language interpretation, 
captioning and a webcast of those services. We remain 
committed,  at  the  Council,  to  that  issue  through  the 
task  force  that  continues  to  report  to  us  on  progress, 
including best practices.
Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  comment,  from  my 
perspective,  on 
the  highly  valuable  and  unique 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  mechanism  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  are  now  getting  closer 
to  the  end  of  the  second  cycle  of  that  peer  review 
mechanism,  as  well  as  to  the  beginning  of  the  third. 
The  UPR  continues  to  get  positive  feedback  from  all 
actors  involved.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to highlight a number of positive trends that I had the 
privilege of witnessing over the course of the year. Of 
course, there are also challenges ahead that will require 
our attention and concerted action. The principle of the 
universality of the process continues to be preserved. 
All  States  scheduled  for  review  came,  and  most  of 
them  came  with  delegations  at  the  ministerial  level. 
That  demonstrates  the  commitment  of  all  States  to 
the Universal Periodic Review, which is of the utmost 
importance.  Nevertheless,  challenges  remain  and, 
in  particular,  those  related  to  the  participation  and 
involvement  of  States  that  have  no  representation  in 
Geneva or only a very small one. We are aware of that 
challenge, and the Office of the High Commissioner for 
Human Rights has put in place a variety of programmes 
and activities to address the needs of those States and to 
ensure their participation in the UPR.
the 
focus  must  be  on 
Another important principle is that of periodicity, 
which  offers  the  opportunity  to  measure  progress. 
The 
implementation  of 
recommendations.  Ideally,  therefore,  national  reports 
and  presentations  in  the  Working  Group  refer  to  the 
implementation of recommendations from the previous 
review  cycle.  That  rightly  reflects  the  cyclical  nature 
of the reviews and the process involving presentations 
to  the  Working  Group  on  the  UPR  in  Geneva.  Going 
forward, there is no doubt that that focus on follow-up 
and  implementation,  reporting  on  the  impact  and  the 
changes on the ground, will need to be stressed much 
more. That will also help to safeguard the credibility of 
the mechanism.
In  that  regard,  more  and  more  States  are,  on  a 
voluntary  basis,  either  submitting  mid-term  reports, 
which  take  stock  of  the  progress  made,  or  using  the 
framework  provided  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
to  share  the  progress  made  and  challenges  faced  in 
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations.  States 
are  also  increasingly  strengthening  their  national 
processes and systems so as to enable a more systematic 
engagement with and follow-up to the recommendations 
from  the  human  rights  mechanisms,  including  the 
15-36749
3/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
Universal  Periodic  Review.  That  approach  is  also 
highly  encouraging  and  should  be  further  pursued.  I 
am  pleased  to  note  that,  in  comparison  with  the  first 
cycle,  bilateral  matters  tend  to  be  less  present  in  the 
reviews.  I  welcome  the  self-restraint  exerted  by  the 
States  concerned,  thereby  contributing  to  preserving 
the constructive, consensual and non-politicized nature 
of the Universal Periodic Review.
I  would  like  to  turn  to  an  issue  of  concern  that 
transcends  the  review  and  concerns  the  work  of  the 
Council in general, which is the protection of the role 
of  civil  society  in  our  work.  The  active  participation 
and  contribution  of  civil-society  organizations  and 
national  human  rights  institutions  are  central  to  the 
work of the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms, 
and they contribute to making it a unique forum among 
other  United  Nations  intergovernmental  organs.  Civil 
society,  human  rights  defenders,  non-governmental 
organizations and national institutions for the promotion 
and protection of human rights not only contribute to 
our discussions, but they also make us more effective 
and provide us with a mirror image of the realities on 
the ground. And in that regard, civil society is not just 
something that is nice to have: it is at the core of our 
work and at the core of human rights.
It  is  therefore  essential  that  representatives  of 
civil society be able to operate in a free, open and safe 
environment that protects and promotes their own human 
rights. Over the course of the year, I have been apprised 
and seized of alleged and verified cases of intimidation, 
threats  and  reprisals  against  individuals  from  civil-
society organizations, national human rights institutions 
and even special-procedures mandate-holders. Many of 
those  cases  are  also  documented  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations, its representatives and mechanisms in the field 
of  human  rights  (A/HRC/30/29),  which  is  presented 
annually in September to the Human Rights Council.
I have repeatedly appealed to the Council to ensure 
the safe participation and involvement of civil society 
in  our  work  and,  where  required,  I  have  followed  up 
directly  with  the  States  concerned.  I  would  like  once 
again to reiterate that, without the contribution of civil 
society, the work of the Council, the Universal Periodic 
Review  and  other  mechanisms  would  be  much  less 
effective.  The  participation  of  civil  society  should  be 
preserved,  and  individuals  working  with  civil  society 
organizations should be protected from intimidation of 
any type.
In that context, I would also like to stress the need 
to implement Human Rights Council resolution 24/24, 
on  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  The  Council 
decided in 2013 to establish a focal point on reprisals 
and intimidation in the context of cooperation with the 
United Nations, a topic that, at the time, was also being 
considered by the General Assembly. As President of the 
Council, I am pleased to note that that item is now closed 
and that subsequently States from all regions expressed 
their support for the prompt implementation of Council 
resolution 24/24. That brings me to a point that I wish 
to underline. While the Council is undoubtedly de jure 
a  subsidiary  body  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  trust 
that our decisions are respected and, in the form of our 
annual report, acknowledged in toto.
Let  me  briefly  turn  to  another  subject,  namely, 
the  welcome  and  increased  participation  of  the  least 
developed countries (LDCs) and small island developing 
States (SIDS) in the work of the Human Rights Council. 
In  that  regard,  the  Voluntary  Technical  Assistance 
Trust  Fund  to  Support  the  Participation  of  LDCs  and 
SIDS  in  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  has 
been crucial. We all recognize that the Fund is a great 
asset, not only for the beneficiary countries but also for 
the work of the Council.
As in the past, the Human Rights Council made a 
series  of  recommendations  to  the  General  Assembly, 
which  1  will  present  in  a  more  detailed  way  in  my 
presentation to the Third Committee this afternoon. For 
instance,  the  resolution  adopted  on  the  human  rights 
situation in Syria at our thirtieth session recommends 
that the General Assembly should submit the reports of 
the  International  Independent  Commission  of  Inquiry 
on Syria to the Security Council for appropriate action. 
Furthermore, 
the  General 
Assembly to consider holding a high-level segment on 
the right to development during the general debate at its 
seventy-first session.
the  Council  requested 
In  view  of  the  upcoming  fifteenth  anniversary  of 
the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of  Action,  the  Council  also  requested  the  General 
Assembly, in its resolution 30/16, to dedicate a theme 
at the high-level segment of the seventy-first session to 
the full and effective implementation of the Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action,  including,  among  other 
things,  the  universal  ratification  of  the  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination.  Furthermore,  the  Secretary-General 
was  requested,  through  the  General  Assembly,  to 
4/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
review  and  rescind  the  mandate  of  the  independent 
eminent  experts  for  the  successful  implementation  of 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and, 
in lieu of that mandate, to establish a forum on people 
of African descent.
This  year,  the  Council  also  mandated  a  panel 
discussion  on  the  progress  made  and  challenges  in 
addressing human rights issues in the context of efforts 
to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic by 2030. The report of 
that discussion will be brought to the attention of the 
General Assembly ahead of the high-level meeting on 
HIV/AIDS in 2016. Finally, the Council recommended 
that the General Assembly designate 9 December as the 
International  Day  of  Commemoration  and  Dignity  of 
the Victims of Genocide.
Since  our  Fifth  Committee  colleagues  are  today 
discussing the budget for human rights activities, I would 
like  to  touch  on  the  significant  challenges  facing  the 
Human Rights Council in terms of resources. As I said 
earlier, the Council continues to adopt a high number 
of  resolutions  and  decisions  with  significant  resource 
implications.  Resources  are  also  of  great  importance 
for  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner 
of  Human  Rights  with  regard  to  capacity-building 
and  technical  cooperation.  Unfortunately,  the  regular 
budget has not kept pace with that growth. For example, 
the  High  Commissioner  and  his  Office  often  have  to 
rely on voluntary contributions in order to implement 
mandated activities. However, a strong and independent 
High Commissioner and Office are and will continue to 
be  in  our  common  interest.  I  would  therefore  like  to 
seek cooperation and support from all Member States 
to address that issue through the Fifth Committee, by 
positively  considering  options  on  how  to  address  the 
funding  gap,  including  with  regard  to  new  mandates 
arising from resolutions and decisions of the Council.
I  have  held  the  presidency  since  January  2015 
and  will  conclude  my  term  at  the  end  of  this  year. 
On  7  December,  the  Council  is  expected  to  hold  its 
organizational meeting to appoint the new Bureau for 
the  tenth  cycle.  The  presidency  from  January  2016 
onwards  will  come  from  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific 
States. Throughout its existence for the past nine years, 
the  Council  has  proved  able  to  devise  new  formats 
and  modalities  for  addressing  human  rights  issues  of 
concern. That was also the case this year. During the 
June session, the Council held an enhanced interactive 
dialogue  on  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and  a 
dialogue  on  the  current  status  of  negotiations  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  with  regard  to  human 
rights.  Informal  conversations  on  topical  issues  were 
organized, outside Council sessions, with the incoming 
Chair of the Third Committee, the Deputy Secretary-
General  and  the  High  Commissioner.  Those  formats, 
along  with  the  regular  updates  at  the  beginning  of 
each  Council  session  by  the  High  Commissioner  on 
developments  in  the  world  and  the  numerous  reports 
presented by his Office, have fruitfully contributed to 
the Council’s deliberations during the calendar year.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  assure  members  of  my 
commitment  to  seeing  a  successful  transition  of  the 
Presidency.  I  trust  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
continue to provide its full support to the Council. On 
behalf  of  my  successor,  I  would  like  to  welcome  all 
members  to  the  thirty-first  session  of  the  Council  in 
March 2015. Finally, I would like to echo the words of 
former Secretary-General Kofi Annan:
“We  will  not  enjoy  development  without 
security,  we  will  not  enjoy  security  without 
development, and we will not enjoy either without 
respect for human rights”.
We should — in the seventieth year of the United 
Nations — wholeheartedly endorse those three pillars 
of  the  United  Nations  in  all  our  work,  and  we  should 
work to strengthen the human rights system.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  On 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  I 
would like to express the Movement’s sympathy to the 
families  of  the  victims  of  the  attacks  committed  by 
Daesh terrorist groups during the past 10 days in Paris, 
Beirut and Baghdad. The Movement strongly condemns 
those  terrorist  attacks  and  extends  its  condolences  to 
the  Governments  and  the  people  of  France,  Lebanon 
and Iraq. Those terrorist attacks prove once again that 
terrorism and violent extremism are global threats and 
that combating them requires global cooperation.
The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries 
reaffirms that democracy, development and respect for 
all human rights and freedoms are interdependent and 
mutually  reinforcing.  The  international  community 
should  support  the  strengthening  and  promotion  of 
democracy,  development  and  respect  for  all  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  in  the  entire  world, 
without distinction between developed and developing 
countries.  In  that  regard,  we  recall  the  commitments 
made  by  the  Heads  of  States  and  Government  during 
the various summits of the Non-Aligned Movement.
15-36749
5/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
We also reaffirm that all human rights, in particular 
the  right  to  development,  are  universal,  inalienable, 
interdependent,  indivisible  and  interrelated,  and  that 
human rights issues must be addressed within the global 
context  through  a  constructive,  non-confrontational, 
non-politicized,  non-selective,  impartial,  transparent 
and  dialogue-based  approach.  They  should  also  be 
addressed in a fair and equitable manner, with objectivity 
and  respect  for  all  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  They  include  respect 
for  the  guiding  principles  of  national  sovereignty, 
territorial  integrity,  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of States, and the right to self-determination of 
all  peoples  under  foreign  occupation  and  colonial  or 
alien domination, while also considering the political, 
historical, social, religious and cultural particularities 
of each country.
its 
including 
The  Movement  stresses  the  need  to  preserve  the 
positive developments achieved since the establishment 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  the  context  of  its 
work, 
institution-building  package. 
Furthermore,  NAM  reaffirms  the  need  to  ensure  that 
human  rights  are  not  used  for  political  purposes,  for 
adopting politically motivated decisions or for avoiding 
dealing  with  the  problems  that  plagued  the  former 
United  Nations  Commission  on  Human  Rights.  The 
Movement  also  recalls  General  Assembly  resolution 
62/155, which in its paragraph 11
“[u]rges  all  actors  on  the  international  scene  to 
build  an  international  order  based  on  inclusion, 
justice, equality and equity, human dignity, mutual 
understanding  and  promotion  of  and  respect  for 
cultural diversity and universal human rights, and 
to reject all doctrines of exclusion based on racism, 
racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance”.
The Movement emphasizes the role of the Human 
Rights  Council  as  a  subsidiary  body  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  is  responsible  for  considering  human 
rights  situations  in  all  countries  in  the  context  of  the 
Universal Periodic Review and in a spirit of cooperation 
and constructive dialogue. In that regard, the Movement 
expresses  its  deep  concern  at  the  continuing  and 
expanding  practice  involving  the  selective  adoption 
of  country-specific  resolutions  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  That  practice  exploits  human  rights  for 
political  purposes  and  contravenes  the  principles 
of  universality,  objectivity  and  non-selectivity  in 
addressing  human  rights  issues,  which  undermines 
cooperation  as  an  essential  principle  in  the  effective 
promotion and protection of all universally recognized 
human rights.
In  conclusion,  the  Movement  calls  on  all  States 
members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  promote 
international cooperation and constructive dialogue in 
the  Council,  and  to  prevent  the  application  of  double 
standards, selectivity and political manipulation, which 
discredited the United Nations Commission on Human 
Rights.
Mr.  Minah  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Group of African States. At the 
outset, let me say that our thoughts and prayers are with 
the citizens of Paris and Beirut in connection with the 
recent  terrorist  atrocities.  We  pray  for  all  those  who 
continue to suffer from terrorist acts around the world.
I  welcome  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, Mr. Joachim Rücker, Permanent Representative 
of  Germany  to  the  United  Nations  in  Geneva,  and 
also  thank  him  for  the  introductory  remarks  that  he 
made  during  his  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/70/53).  The  African  Group  thanks  Ambassador 
Rücker for his work since 1 January 2015 and for the 
level  of  professionalism  and  engagement  that  he  has 
continuously  maintained.  In  that  regard,  the  African 
Group would like to make the following points on the 
work of the Human Rights Council since its previous 
annual report.
As  it  approaches  the  tenth  anniversary  of  its 
creation, the Human Rights Council continues to fulfil 
its mandate as a subsidiary body of the General Assembly 
in a promising manner and in accordance with  resolution 
60/251  and  as  further  elaborated  and  framed  in  the 
Council’s  resolution  5/1,  entitled  “Institution-building 
of the Human Rights Council”. The Council continues 
to expand its work and activities, which underscores the 
need for comprehensive rationalization so as to ensure 
efficiency and effectiveness.
The  African  Group  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the 
incumbent  President  of  the  Council  to  address  the 
areas  with  the  potential  to  increase  the  efficiency 
of  the  Council’s  work.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
the  adoption  of  the  statement  by  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council on enhancing the efficiency of 
the Human Rights Council (A/HRC/PRST/29/1) and the 
subsequent  follow-up  decision  (A/HRC/DEC/30/115). 
We  emphasize  that  any  proposals  for  consolidating 
6/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
the  working  methods  or  increasing  efficiency  should 
be  made  within  the  established  parameters  of  the 
institution-building  package  (Human  Rights  Council 
resolution 5/1), the outcome of the review, the rules of 
procedure and the existing modalities of work. We also 
reiterate that the Bureau of the Human Rights Council 
should be guided by and must work within the framework 
outlined  in  paragraph  114  of  the  institution-building 
package, which clarifies that the Bureau’s role should 
be confined to organizational and procedural matters.
We express our concern over a number of attempts 
to  depart  from  the  institution-building  package  or 
to  initiate  a  de  facto  review.  We  believe  that  those 
attempts can have grave and negative consequences for 
the credibility and future of the Human Rights Council. 
The  same  concerns  also  apply  to  the  disconcerting 
attempts  to  question  the  status  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council as a subsidiary body of the General Assembly, 
or  to  reopen  the  discussion  on  previously  settled  key 
institutional questions.
As  we  approach  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Right  to  Development  (resolution  41/128)  in  2016,  we 
note  with  great  concern  the  continued  impasse  in  the 
intergovernmental  Working  Group  on  the  Right  to 
Development  and  the  repeated  resistance  to  pursuing 
the normative elaboration of the definition of that right. 
Sadly,  that  is  hampering  the  serious  work  needed  to 
ensure that that important right becomes a concrete and 
tangible  reality  for  everyone,  particularly  the  world’s 
poor.
The African Group welcomes the recommendation 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  that  requests  the  High 
Commissioner, as part of the activities to commemorate 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  Council,  to  seek  the 
views of members in preparing a paper on the realization 
and  implementation  of  the  right  to  development,  as 
elaborated  in  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Right to Development. It also welcomes the decision to 
submit that paper to the Working Group on the Right 
to  Development  for  consideration  at  its  seventeenth 
session,  and  it  requests  that  the  General  Assembly 
consider  holding  a  high-level  segment  on  the  right  to 
development during the general debate at its seventy-
first session.
including focusing the spotlight on a number of issues 
and priorities to which it attaches particular importance. 
The African Group maintains its leadership on a range 
of  issues,  including  the  elimination  of  female  genital 
mutilation, the impact of toxic waste on human rights 
and the effects of the non-repatriation of illicit funds on 
the enjoyment of human rights.
As a backdrop to the growing number of instances 
of racial violence and hatred in various regions of the 
world, the African Group remains at the forefront of the 
fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and  other  forms  of  related  intolerance  through  its 
presentation  of  ambitious  and  practical  resolutions 
aimed  at  the  full  implementation  of  the  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action.
In that context, we must highlight the fact that the 
African Group has been very supportive and engaged 
with item 10 of the programme of work of the Human 
Rights  Council,  entitled  “Technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building”.  The  African  States  comprise  two 
thirds of the beneficiaries of that agenda item, and that 
is  an  indicator  of  the  degree  of  openness  that  Africa 
maintains  towards  promoting  technical  cooperation 
and capacity-building in the field of human rights. We 
take this opportunity to ensure that item 10 will remain 
a  platform  for  technical  cooperation  and  capacity-
building. It should not be used for other objectives, such 
as  monitoring  or  investigation.  Advisory  services  on 
human rights issues should be implemented only at the 
request of the State concerned, based on its priorities, 
national ownership and with full respect for the State’s 
sovereignty and political independence.
We  are  very  encouraged  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council remains seized of the issue of the protection of 
the family. More than 20 years after the International 
Year  of  the  Family,  protection  and  support  for  the 
family  as  a  natural  and  fundamental  unit  of  society 
remain  largely  overlooked,  although  they  represent 
an  uncontested  obligation  under  international  human 
rights law. The African Group welcomes the adoption 
of  Human  Rights  Council  resolution  29/22  and  looks 
forward to the report on the impact of the fulfilment of 
States’ obligations under international human rights law 
regarding the protection of the family to be submitted 
to the thirty-first session of the Council.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the 
African  Group  within  the  Human  Rights  Council 
continued  to  assume  its  active  and  constructive  role, 
We  take  note  of  the  fact  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council held an enhanced interactive dialogue during 
its  June  session  on  the  human  rights  of  migrants. 
15-36749
7/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
Nevertheless, the grave situation witnessed by migrants, 
refugees  and  asylum-seekers  invites  further  work 
and efforts by the Council in that regard, particularly 
concerning the impact of migration and border-control 
policies  on  the  safety,  dignity  and  human  rights  of 
migrants  and  refugees.  The  African  Group  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  continued  support  for  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  as  a  subsidiary  body  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  its  role  in  supporting  the 
protection and promotion of human rights globally.
The African Group is convinced that the Universal 
Periodic  Review  (UPR)  remains  the  most  distinctive 
mechanism of universal application for assisting States 
in  fulfilling  their  human  rights  obligations.  In  our 
view, the mechanism remains relevant to the promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights.  The  Group  would 
like to reaffirm the need to preserve the mechanism’s 
cooperative  nature  and  the  principle  of  dialogue. 
The  Group  firmly  believes  that  it  is  critical  that  the 
Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance 
for  the  implementation  of  UPR  recommendations  be 
properly used for the purpose of assisting States develop 
national capacity and expertise for the implementation 
of the accepted recommendations.
While  the  African  Group  reiterates  its  support 
for the mechanisms and the special procedures of the 
Council  and  the  important  work  that  it  undertakes 
in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  the 
Group believes that there is a need for such mechanisms 
and  special  procedures  to  be  streamlined  in  order  for 
them  to  be  more  effective.  The  Group  would  like  to 
emphasize the need for the procedures to comply with 
the  institution-building  package,  the  code  of  conduct 
for mandate-holders and the terms of reference of their 
respective mandates.
The  African  Group  reiterates  its  strong  concern 
over  attempts  to  impose  new  notions  and  concepts, 
such  as  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity,  which 
are  not  referenced  in  international  human  rights  law, 
and  strongly  rejects  any  attempts  to  undermine  the 
international human rights system by seeking to impose 
concepts pertaining to social matters, including private 
individual conduct, that fall outside the internationally 
agreed  human  rights  legal  framework.  Focusing  on 
notions on which there is no international agreement, 
definition  or  consensus  will  serve  only  to  divide  the 
Human Rights Council and undermine its balanced and 
egalitarian approach to the promotion and protection of 
human rights for all.
The  Group  therefore  observes  with  regret  that 
concepts not universally agreed on are given attention 
to  the  detriment  of  issues  of  paramount  importance, 
such as the right to development and the racism agenda. 
Our alarm stems not only from concerns about the lack 
of  legal  grounds  or  the  fact  that  such  concepts  delve 
into  matters  that  essentially  fall  within  the  domestic 
jurisdiction  of  States,  but  from  the  fact  that  such 
attempts also run counter to the Charter of the United 
Nations, which calls for respect for the sovereignty of 
States and the principle of non-intervention. We believe 
that people are not inherently vulnerable, but that some 
individuals  and  groups  find  themselves  in  vulnerable 
situations  owing  to  a  number  of  factors.  Such  factors 
include the socioeconomic environment in which they 
live.  We  strongly  deplore  all  forms  of  stereotyping, 
stigmatization,  prejudice,  intolerance,  discrimination 
and  violence  directed  against  peoples,  communities 
and individuals on any grounds whatsoever, wherever 
they  may  occur.  We  call  on  all  Member  States  to 
refrain  from  attempting  to  give  priority  to  the  rights 
of  certain  individuals,  which  could  result  in  negative 
discrimination at the expense of the other internationally 
agreed rights.
In conclusion, the African Group is convinced that 
the principles underpinning the creation of the Human 
Rights Council, as outlined in resolution 60/251, remain 
of  utmost  importance  and  relevance.  The  Human 
Rights  Council,  in  undertaking  its  mandate  aimed  at 
promoting universal respect for the protection of human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  without  distinction, 
should continue to base its activities on the principles 
of  non-politicization,  non-selectivity,  objectivity, 
universality, 
the  elimination  of  double  standards 
and  international  cooperation  in  addressing  human 
rights  issues.  The  Human  Rights  Council  should  also 
remain committed to the principles of interrelatedness, 
interdependence  and  the  indivisibility  of  all  human 
rights,  including  the  right  to  development,  bearing  in 
mind that all human rights should receive equal and fair 
treatment.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union) (spoke in French): 
At the outset, allow me to turn to my French colleagues 
and  friends  to  express  how  deeply  shocked  and 
saddened we are by the terror attacks in Paris. France 
is  a  great  and  strong  nation.  Its  values  of  freedom, 
equality  and  brotherhood  have  inspired  and  continue 
8/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
to inspire the European Union (EU). Today, we stand 
united with the Government and the people of France. 
I also wish to extend sincere condolences to the other 
countries whose nationals were also among the victims 
of  the  terrorist  attacks  and  to  our  colleagues  in  Iraq 
and  Lebanon  regarding  the  attacks  on  the  capitals  of 
those countries last week. We must recognize that such 
attacks are attacks on us all.
This is, regrettably, the second time this year that 
I  am  addressing  the  Assembly  just  after  a  terrorist 
attack. The first occurred in January in Paris. At that 
time, I spoke about upholding the right to the freedom 
of expression, even when an opinion given could hurt, 
anger  or  insult  someone  else.  What  freedoms  are  we 
defending  today?  Is  it  the  right  to  attend  a  football 
match, listen to music, go for a walk or to a restaurant? 
Of what crimes were the victims of last week’s attacks 
guilty?
It is for that reason that we must spare no effort and 
work together to ensure that such reprehensible acts do 
not achieve their goal of creating divisions and sowing 
fear  and  hatred.  We  must  face  the  threat  together, 
with  all  the  means  necessary  and  with  unwavering 
determination.  We  urgently  need  to  understand  the 
threat posed and ensure that the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  values,  ideals  and  principles  therein 
guide  the  way.  Good  always  overcomes  evil,  and  we 
must make every effort to ensure that that remains true.
(spoke in English)
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina; the European Free Trade Association 
country  Iceland,  member  of  the  European  Economic 
Area; as well as Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and 
Georgia, align themselves with this statement.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Joachim 
Rücker,  for  presenting  the  Council’s  tenth  annual 
report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/70/53).  We  also 
appreciate the opportunity to engage in an interactive 
dialogue with the President of the Council in the Third 
Committee in order to strengthen the links between the 
Council and the wider United Nations membership in 
New York.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  European  Union  has  been  a  strong 
supporter of that body. We would like to reaffirm our 
continued support today. Being the only United Nations 
body that is purely devoted to supporting the promotion 
and  protection  of  all  human  rights,  the  Council  has 
strengthened the ability of the United Nations to help 
ensure that all persons can enjoy their human rights and 
that  violations  thereof  are  disclosed.  We  attach  great 
importance to both the credibility and the effectiveness 
of the Council, and will continue to make every effort to 
ensure that it is not only able to address violations and 
abuses of human rights, including gross and systematic 
violations and abuses, and respond promptly to human 
rights  emergencies,  but  also  to  improve  human  rights 
standards and their implementation worldwide through 
systematic  work  on  relevant  thematic  issues.  In  that 
context, we strongly oppose any attempts to undermine 
the  institutional  position  of  the  Council  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  and  the  European  Union 
stresses the importance of its independence.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  central  role 
played  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  addressing 
human  rights  situations  throughout  the  world.  The 
severe  consequences  of  the  crisis  in  Syria  and  the 
violations  committed  by  the  Al-Assad  regime  cannot 
be ignored by any State, and the conflict’s effects have 
also become blatantly visible in the region and beyond. 
In that context, the Council’s ongoing response to the 
crisis remains critically important. The Council has also 
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  providing  technical 
assistance and capacity-building to the Governments of 
Côte d’Ivoire, Iraq, Libya and Mali in order to promote 
human rights, and we welcome the continued support 
that  has  been  rendered  to  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  the  Republic  of 
Guinea,  South  Sudan  and  Ukraine.  We  trust  that  the 
Council  will  continue  to  closely  monitor  situations 
where  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building  can 
make a difference, and will take action where necessary.
On  28  October,  the  General  Assembly  elected 
18 new members of the Council. Serving as a Council 
member  entails  important  responsibilities;  resolution 
60/251  provides  that  members  elected  to  the  Council 
shall  uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights. While we congratulate 
the new members, we also encourage all to pay careful 
attention to the human rights records and commitments 
of States throughout their membership.
15-36749
9/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
The  European  Union  highly  values  the  work  of 
the  special  procedures.  They  play  a  crucial  role  in 
advancing  the  human  rights  agenda.  All  EU  member 
States  have  extended  a  standing  invitation  to  the 
special-procedures mandate-holders, and the European 
Union calls on all States Members of the United Nations 
to do likewise and to actively cooperate with them. In 
order to enable them to fully carry out their mandates, 
it  is  crucial  that  they  be  able  to  independently  assess 
and draw the Council’s attention to human rights issues 
and  situations.  In  that  regard,  the  EU  also  welcomes 
the  growing  participation  of  mandate-holders  in  the 
Council’s work.
Given  the  situation  in  the  countries  concerned, 
the  European  Union  welcomes  the  extensions  of  the 
country-specific mandates of the Special Rapporteurs 
on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  Myanmar,  Iran, 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Cambodia 
and  Belarus.  We  also  welcome  the  extension  of  the 
mandates of the Independent Experts on the situation of 
human rights in Haiti, the Central African Republic and 
Mali.  We  also  note  the  first  report  (A/HRC/29/42)  of 
the commission of inquiry on human rights in Eritrea. 
Finally,  we  welcome  the  consensus  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  30/1,  on  Sri  Lanka,  an  important 
step in pursuing reconciliation and accountability there.
Thematic  special  procedures  play  an  equally 
research,  country-
important 
specific visits and valuable contributions to the better 
understanding of the content of specific human rights. 
Among  the  many  thematic  special  procedures,  the 
European  Union  would  like  to  highlight  the  mandate 
of the Special Rapporteur on the freedom of religion or 
belief, who plays an active role in identifying existing 
and  emerging  obstacles  to  the  enjoyment  of  the  right 
to  the  freedom  of  religion  or  belief  and  in  presenting 
recommendations 
such  obstacles. 
Moreover, we also want to draw attention to the newly 
established mandate of the Independent Expert on the 
enjoyment  of  human  rights  by  persons  with  albinism 
and the mandate on the right to privacy in the digital 
age. We wish them success and reiterate our support to 
their mandates.
to  overcome 
their 
role 
through 
The European Union remains strongly committed 
to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  a  truly 
universal  and  unique  mechanism  within  the  United 
Nations, addressing all human rights and applicable to 
all Member States without distinction or discrimination. 
Ultimately, however, the quality of the recommendations 
and  the  commitment  to  implementing  them  are  key 
to  the  outcome  of  that  process.  The  equal  treatment 
of  all  countries  is  an  underlying  element  of  the  UPR 
mechanism and should be maintained throughout each 
cycle.
The  European  Union  reiterates 
its  strongest 
condemnation  of  the  acts  of  reprisal  and  intimidation 
of  civil-society  representatives  attending  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  cooperating  with  human  rights 
mechanisms  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights. Following the 
decision  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth 
session  not  to  defer  consideration  of  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  24/24,  we  call  on  the  Secretary-
General  to  appoint  a  focal  point  for  reprisals,  taking 
into consideration the concerns raised by some States 
on some of the provisions in the resolution. That was 
the will of a cross-regional group of 56 States, including 
the 28 EU member States, expressed in a joint statement 
during the thirtieth session of the Council. We remain 
ready  to  engage  with  all  Member  States  to  identify  a 
solution  to  the  issue.  Contributions  by  civil-society 
organizations  and  national  human  rights  institutions 
are extremely valuable to the work of the Council. Their 
ability to interact with the Council must be preserved.
let  me  reiterate  our  ongoing 
commitment to contributing to the work of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  to  further  strengthening  its  role 
in  the  protection  and  development  of  international 
human  rights  law.  We  will  continue  to  systematically 
uphold  and  ensure  the  implementation  of  existing 
international  norms  and  standards,  strongly  advocate 
for  the  universality  of  human  rights  and  promote 
the  observance  by  all  States  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.
In  conclusion, 
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): The tragedy in Paris is yet another example of 
the savagery of the terrorism that is threatening human 
civilization. In Lebanon and Iraq, terrorist attacks have 
also  claimed  the  lives  of  many  people  in  recent  days. 
Our country is among those that have experienced the 
horror of international terrorism at first hand. We join 
others  in  expressing  our  condolences  and  once  again 
state the need to decisively and cohesively combat that 
heinous scourge, which knows no nationality, religion 
or borders. Terrorism violates human rights, including 
the most basic of them — the right to life. To effectively 
combat  that  evil,  we  must  truly  bring  together  the 
efforts of the entire international community.
10/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
We thank Mr. Rücker for presenting the report on 
the work of the United Nations Human Rights Council in 
2015 (A/70/53). We also congratulate the representatives 
of the 18 countries elected on 28 October to the Human 
Rights Council.
We  view  the  Council  as  a  key  component  of  the 
universal system for promoting and protecting human 
rights.  It  is  designed  to  promote  the  development  of 
constructive  intergovernmental  dialogue  on  human 
rights.  Russia  actively  participates  in  the  Council’s 
work,  cooperating  with  all  interested  States,  as  well 
as  with  the  special-procedures  mandate-holders  of 
the Human Rights Council and the Universal Periodic 
Review mechanism. We will continue to strengthen the 
activity of the Council, in accordance with the principle 
of  respectful  and  depoliticized  cooperation,  which  is 
the only effective way to achieve the goal of universal 
respect for human rights.
This  year,  the  Council  addressed  a  wide  range  of 
issues.  It  is  important  that  the  Council’s  resolutions, 
its President’s statements and joint country statements 
addressed  such  topics  as  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the end of the Second World War, the protection of 
Christians, the protection of the family and the fiftieth 
anniversary of the adoption and fortieth anniversary of 
the entry into force of the International Covenants on 
Human Rights.
At the same time, in our opinion, there are many 
other  issues  that  require  the  urgent  attention  of  the 
Council,  including  violations  of  the  rights  of  national 
minorities  and  the  phenomenon  of  mass  statelessness 
on  the  European  continent.  Against  a  backdrop  of 
incomprehensible  phobias,  several  States  have  started 
repressing all dissent by bringing pressure to bear on 
the media, closing television channels and blacklisting 
journalists.  The  Council  must  focus  its  attention  on 
the  negative  practice  of  the  use  of  extraterritoriality 
to  shirk  international  human  rights  responsibilities. 
More  attention  should  be  paid  to  ensuring  social, 
economic  and  cultural  rights,  the  promotion  of  the 
right  to  development  and  to  strengthening  the  system 
of international legal guarantees of non-interference in 
private and family life.
Unfortunately,  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  not 
doing enough to combat racism, racial discrimination, 
aggressive  nationalism,  xenophobia  and 
related 
intolerance or the glorification of Nazism and the spread 
of  radical  ideologies  of  hatred.  We  believe  that  the 
Council must give significantly more attention to those 
issues and that States should adopt a more constructive 
approach  to  their  consideration.  We  are  particularly 
concerned about the growing politicization of the work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  polarization  of 
its members’ interests. The ongoing efforts of several 
countries  to  act  as  mentors  is  not  conducive  to  the 
creation of an atmosphere of constructive cooperation 
in  the  Council,  which  is  necessary  for  its  effective 
work. As a result, it is significantly more difficult for 
the Council to hold focused and objective discussions 
on  current  issues  on  the  international  human  rights 
agenda.
It is well understood that the primary responsibility 
for the promotion and protection of human rights lies with 
States, while the task of the international community is 
to  assist  them  in  that  endeavour.  We  believe  that  the 
human  rights  situation  in  certain  countries  should  be 
examined in the Council with a view to those countries 
receiving  advisory  services,  technical  assistance  or 
capacity-building.  At  the  same  time,  we  must  strictly 
adhere to the basic principle that technical assistance, 
first and foremost, must be provided only at the request 
of the State concerned. We believe that the work of the 
Council in the area of technical assistance must be in 
line  with  the  requirements  of  neutrality,  impartiality 
and independence.
Russia  supports  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
mechanism, which, in our opinion, is the only objective 
international human rights monitoring mechanism. We 
would like to urge all States that have already completed 
or will complete this process in future to work in a spirit 
of openness, voluntary cooperation and willingness to 
engage  in  dialogue.  They  should  not  avoid  taking  on 
commitments  to  implement  the  recommendations  and 
should  take  responsibility  for  their  implementation. 
Owing  to  the  increase  in  recent  years  in  the  number 
of the Council’s special procedures, we must focus on 
eliminating  the  duplication  of  efforts  and  on  strictly 
abiding by the mandates assigned to the procedures and 
by the code of conduct.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  again  encourage 
States and other interested parties to avoid any further 
politicization or geographical or thematic distortion of 
the Council’s work and not to use the Council to solve 
problems  that  are  unrelated  to  its  mandates.  We  call 
on  all  concerned  to  work  with  the  Council  in  a  spirit 
of  equal  and  mutually  respectful  and  constructive 
cooperation. We are ready to contribute to this work.
15-36749
11/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
Mr.  Ndong  Ella  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
At the outset, I should like, on behalf of my country 
and my own behalf, to express my sincere condolences 
to France and the French people, especially the families 
of the victims, following the savage attacks committed 
in  Paris,  Île-de-France,  on  Friday.  Gabon  strongly 
condemns those despicable acts of another age, which 
absolutely nothing can justify.
I welcome the presence in the Hall of Mr. Joachim 
Rücker,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Germany to the United Nations Office at 
Geneva and President of the Human Rights Council. I 
want to thank him for the relevant information he has 
kindly  provided  to  us  on  the  Council’s  activities  and 
congratulate him on the excellent work he has carried 
out at the head of the Council at a time when the world is 
facing multiple crises, which often cause multifaceted 
human rights violations.
Since  I  had  the  privilege  of  presiding  over  the 
important  Human  Rights  Council  on  behalf  of  my 
country, Gabon, I understand the scope and complexity 
of the tasks assigned to him, and I can fully appreciate 
his  activities  and  initiatives  aimed  at  enhancing 
the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council  in 
continuing  the  efforts  of  his  predecessors.  I  welcome 
the special attention he has given to strengthening the 
synergy that must exist between Geneva and New York 
when addressing the issues and concerns related to the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  throughout 
the world. That synergy is all the more necessary as it 
can  serve  as  a  foundation  for  greater  coordination  in 
the implementation of the promotion and protection of 
human rights.
Gabon  believes  that  respect  for  human  rights  and 
the  dignity  of  the  human  person  is  a  prerequisite  for 
harmonious  development,  based  on  the  well-being  of 
all  people,  regardless  of  gender,  religion,  political 
opinion,  ethnicity  and  social  status.  As  the  Assembly 
well  knows,  the  dignity  of  the  human  person  exists 
regardless  of  whether  or  not  it  is  recognized.  My 
delegation  encourages  the  Human  Rights  Council  to 
remain  seized  of  situations  that  threaten  the  exercise 
and enjoyment of human rights, such as discrimination 
in all its forms and in particular racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and discrimination against women.
Gabon  has  been  closely  following  the  Council’s 
consideration  of  current  issues  and  situations,  such 
as  those  related  to  private  life  in  the  age  of  digital 
technology, family, sustainable development, migration 
and  climate  change.  My  delegation  encourages  the 
Council to strengthen its efforts in the field of technical 
assistance and capacity-building in human rights. The 
countries  listed  in  the  Council’s  agenda  as  needing 
such  strengthening  must  be  supported  with  a  view  to 
enabling them to eventually improve their human rights 
situations.  To  that  end,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
proposals  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  to  increase  the  number  of  staff  in 
the field.
My country’s Government, in line with the vision 
of His Excellency Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President 
of  the  Republic  and  Head  of  State,  who  wants  to 
make  Gabon  an  emerging  country  by  2025,  regards 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  as  an 
ongoing  endeavour  that  requires  the  involvement 
of  all  stakeholders  and  the  strong  cooperation  of  our 
States, together with all United Nations human rights 
mechanisms,  in  particular  the  Council.  Gabon,  an 
original member of the Council since its establishment 
in 2006, has always complied with the requirements of 
those mechanisms. We encourage other States to do the 
same.
The reform of the working methods of the Human 
Rights Council is particularly meaningful today, as we 
will celebrate the tenth anniversary of its establishment 
next year, in 2016. This reform process could begin with 
a  review  of  the  Council’s  agenda,  which  has  become 
somewhat  congested  over  the  years.  Other  aspects 
that  also  might  receive  attention  include  the  human 
rights  dimension  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  which  brings  hope  to 
developing countries that face many challenges. As the 
thirtieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration 
on  the  Right  to  Development  (resolution  41/128) 
approaches  in  2016,  Gabon  expresses  its  support  for 
the intergovernmental Working Group on the Right to 
Development and hopes that it will fully carry out its 
mandate.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  my  country’s 
support for the activities of the Human Rights Council, 
in accordance with resolution 65/251. The promotion and 
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms 
must  take  into  account  the  principles  of  objectivity, 
universality,  non-politicization,  non-selectivity  and 
12/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
indivisibility,  which  are  the  basis  for  the  values  of 
humanism, solidarity, social justice and respect for life 
and human dignity.
Ms.  Wilson  (Australia):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
acknowledging the horrific attacks in Paris last Friday 
night,  just  days  after  the  tragic  attacks  in  Beirut  and 
Baghdad. We offer our deep condolences to the families 
of  those  killed,  and  strongly  condemn  such  acts  of 
terror.
the 
the 
cornerstone  of 
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
remains 
international 
community’s  human  rights  framework.  Australia  was 
a  founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  and  since 
the 1940s has consistently supported the central role of 
human rights as enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations.  We  commend  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  its  important  work  in  promoting  and  protecting 
all  human  rights,  and  we  have  actively  engaged  with 
the  Council  as  a  non-member  since  its  establishment 
in  2006.  We  also  participate  constructively  in  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  process,  which  we 
consider to be a critical element of the United Nations 
human rights machinery and of our own human rights 
advocacy. Last Monday, Australia was reviewed by 104 
United  Nations  Members  as  part  of  our  second  cycle 
UPR. We take the Universal Periodic Review seriously 
and will over the next few months genuinely consider 
each recommendation.
We  remain  a  champion  of  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  international  rights.  Australia’s 
Foreign  Minister  has  announced  our  candidacy  for 
membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  a  two-
year  term  from  2018  to  2020,  the  first  time  Australia 
has sought a seat on the Council.
Australia continues to focus on five pillars in the 
human  rights  field:  advancing  the  rights  of  women 
and  girls;  promoting  good  governance  and  strong 
democratic  institutions  everywhere;  promoting  and 
protecting freedom of expression; advancing the rights 
of  indigenous  peoples;  and  promoting  strong  national 
human 
institutions  and  capacity-building. 
Those  pillars  reflect  our  priorities  at  home  and 
abroad.  They  are  issues  for  which  we  have  long  been 
an  advocate  domestically,  in  our  international  human 
rights  engagements  and  through  our  aid  programme 
commitments.
rights 
As  home  to  one  of  the  world’s  oldest  continuous 
civilizations, we are proud of the culture and heritage 
of  Australia’s  first  peoples.  Consistent  with  our 
indigenous peoples strategy, Australia is committed to 
giving practical effect to the outcome document of the 
World  Conference  on  Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution 
69/2) and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights 
of  Indigenous  Peoples.  We  engage  in  Human  Rights 
Council resolutions on the rights of indigenous peoples 
and  look  forward  to  considering  how  the  Expert 
Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples can be 
strengthened.
Internationally, we give high priority to advancing 
the rights of women and girls and have placed gender 
equality  and  women’s  empowerment  at  the  centre  of 
our  aid  programme.  We  are  committed  to  working 
collaboratively  with  other  States  to  achieve  equality 
before  the  law  for  women  and  girls,  reduce  violence 
against women and promote gender equality.
Australia’s  leadership  promotes  strong,  effective 
and independent national human rights institutions, the 
independence of judges and lawyers, good governance 
with  respective  groups,  and  the  responsibility  to 
protect.  Australia  is  also  a  strong  advocate  for  the 
global  abolition  of  the  death  penalty.  We  continue  to 
encourage  States  to  move  away  from  this  inhumane 
form  of  punishment.  Australia  has  long  emphasized 
that  there  is  no  evidence  of  its  value  as  a  deterrent 
and  that  any  miscarriage  of  its  use  is  irreversible.  In 
that regard, we were pleased to see the Human Rights 
Council adopt resolution 30/5, on the death penalty.
Australia  will  continue  to  support  efforts  to 
improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  including  through 
the  biennialization  of 
resolutions  and  enhanced 
coordination between New York and Geneva. We also 
continue  to  value  the  important  role  that  the  Office 
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights plays in 
facilitating  the  work  of  the  Council,  assisting  special 
procedures  and  providing  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building.  Australia  strongly  supports 
the 
independence of the Office of the High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  and  the  work  it  does  in  the  field, 
particularly in our region.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  Like  others,  I 
would  like  to  express  our  deepest  sympathy  for  the 
victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris last Friday. We 
stand  in  full  solidarity  with  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  France,  as  well  as  with  other  Governments 
that  have  recently  been  affected  by  terrorist  attacks, 
particularly those of Lebanon and Iraq.
15-36749
13/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
I would like to thank the President of the Human 
Rights Council for presenting its annual report (A/70/53). 
A  dynamic  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the 
General Assembly, since both organs are entrusted with 
the promotion and protection of human rights, is highly 
important.  Regular  communication  and  coordination 
are  thus  essential.  We  appreciate  President  Rücker’s 
regular visits to New York and hope that his successor 
will follow his example. My comments today will focus 
on some of the Council’s most important achievements 
during the reporting period.
in  Sri  Lanka 
The  Council’s  decision 
to  support  national 
accountability  efforts 
for  crimes 
committed during the civil war was an important signal 
for survivors there. It also illustrated the Council’s role 
in  promoting  accountability  for  gross  and  systematic 
human rights violations, particularly when carried out 
as attacks on civilian populations. National judiciaries 
always have the primary responsibility to investigate and 
prosecute.  International  criminal  justice,  particularly 
in the form of the International Criminal Court, comes 
into  play  only  when  domestic  efforts  fail  or  are  not 
even  attempted.  The  proposed  hybrid  mechanism, 
under  national  leadership  but  with  an  international 
component, requires a strong commitment on the part 
of the Government of Sri Lanka to bringing justice to 
the victims of the war and strengthening its judiciary 
in a sustainable manner. It also requires the continued 
engagement  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  since  this 
will  be  a  lengthy  and  possibly  difficult  process.  In 
that regard, we would like to commend the leadership 
displayed  on  the  issue  by  High  Commissioner  Zeid 
Ra’ad Al Hussein.
Accountability  for  the  worst  types  of  crimes 
under  international  law  is  important,  but  we  should 
never  delude  ourselves  into  believing  that  there  can 
be  genuine  compensation  for  such  crimes.  Preventing 
them from occurring in the first place is our real duty 
and challenge. We therefore welcome the fact that 106 
States have subscribed to the code of conduct regarding 
Security  Council  action  against  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity,  or  war  crimes.  We  look  forward 
to  seeing  more  States  make  this  important  political 
commitment,  which  we  will  use  as  a  yardstick  in 
deciding  which  countries  we  would  like  to  see  serve 
on the Security Council and also on the Human Rights 
Council.  The  code  of  conduct  is  now  also  ready  to 
be  applied  with  respect  to  Burundi,  which  will  be  its 
first major challenge. In that respect, we welcome the 
Security  Council’s  consensus  adoption  of  resolution 
2248 (2015) on the situation in that country.
In  July,  the  Human  Rights  Council  appointed  the 
first-ever  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  privacy. 
Safeguarding privacy in the digital era is one of the big 
human rights challenges of our time. It is also an area 
where the Human Rights Council can have a real impact, 
in  particular  by  helping  to  clarify  where  to  draw  the 
line for States that interfere with the right to privacy. 
Clearly,  the  mere  fact  that  the  rapid  development  of 
information and communications technology has made 
it easier than ever to collect personal data is not sufficient 
reason  to  lower  our  standards  of  protection.  Digital 
surveillance can play a useful role in law enforcement, 
but  it  must  at  all  times  respect  proportionality  and 
be  subject  to  judicial  review,  including  remedies  for 
affected individuals. That should also be a key message 
for the review of the outcome document of the World 
Summit  on  the  Information  Society  Forum  and  its 
implementation.  Human  rights  must  be  protected 
online  and  offline.  The  International  Covenant  on 
Civil and Political Rights requires that we extend such 
protection, without discrimination based on nationality 
or citizenship, and that States respect those rights and 
not interfere with them, whether in their own territory, 
abroad or in cyberspace.
The  Council  has  continued  to  make  progress  on 
the  question  of  the  death  penalty.  In  particular,  the 
recently adopted Human Rights Council resolution 30/5 
addresses  the  relationship  between  the  death  penalty 
and the absolute prohibition of torture and of inhuman, 
degrading  or  cruel  treatment  or  punishment.  On  that 
question, in the Human Rights Council report of 16 July 
2015, the Secretary-General clearly states:
“In the light of the evolution of international human 
rights law and jurisprudence and State practice, the 
imposition  of  the  death  penalty  is  incompatible 
with  ...  the  prohibition  of  torture  or  other  cruel, 
inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment.” 
(A/HRC/30/18, para. 55)
On the issue of torture, the Special Rapporteur found 
no  categorical  evidence  on  the  methods  of  execution 
currently in use that comply with the prohibition in every 
case. The Council and the General Assembly should be 
able to follow that logic to make similar statements in 
the future. There may be no full international consensus 
on the death penalty, but we are strongly encouraged by 
the steady positive trend towards abolition worldwide.
14/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  raise  the  issue  of 
Human  Rights  Council  resolution  24/24,  adopted  in 
2013, in paragraph 9 of which the Council encourages 
States
“to address acts of intimidation and reprisal against 
individuals  and  groups  who  cooperate  or  have 
cooperated with the United Nations”.
The resolution still awaits implementation, despite 
the fact that there are no longer any legal or practical 
obstacles  to  it.  Threats  to  human  rights  defenders 
worldwide  are  increasing  at  an  alarming  pace.  Those 
courageous  individuals  provide  a  key  contribution 
to  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Organization  therefore  has  both  a  self-interest  and  a 
moral duty to help protect them. Human Rights Council 
resolution 24/24 must therefore be implemented without 
any further delay and in a manner that finds the widest 
possible political support.
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  At  the  outset, 
allow  me  to  convey  the  profound  sympathies  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  the  Philippines  to  the 
Governments  and  the  peoples  of  Iraq,  Lebanon  and 
France in the aftermath of the horrific terrorist attacks 
perpetrated in recent weeks against innocent civilians 
in Iraq, Lebanon and France, whose rights to life, liberty 
and  security  of  person,  as  enshrined  in  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, have been violated. We 
stand in solidarity with the peoples of Iraq, Lebanon and 
France and all other affected countries in condemning 
those attacks and in fighting this scourge.
The Philippines thanks the President of the Human 
Rights Council for his briefing and welcomes the latest 
report on the work of the Council (A/70/53). I wish to 
express my country’s strong support for his efforts to 
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the Council.
Two weeks ago, my country received the honour of 
being elected for another term, the 2016-2018 term, as a 
member of the Council. We appreciate the opportunity 
to  serve  on  the  Council  once  more,  and  we  pledge  to 
continue to actively participate in its work in a spirit of 
constructive engagement and cooperation and with the 
aim of upholding international human rights standards. 
The Philippines has traditionally sponsored initiatives 
in the Human Rights Council on the protection of the 
human  rights  of  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  migrants, 
women, 
indigenous  peoples  and  persons  with 
disabilities,  and  we  continued  to  do  so  in  the  period 
covered by the report.
The Philippines was a principal sponsor of Human 
Rights  Council  resolution  29/15  on  human  rights  and 
climate change, which calls for a study on the impact 
of climate change and the full enjoyment of the human 
right  to  health  and  decides  to  incorporate  a  panel 
discussion on the issue in the programme of work for 
the  thirty-first  session  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
We will continue to work with partner countries in this 
very important area with a view to creating a stronger 
sense  of  urgency  for  a  human  rights-based  approach 
to dealing with climate change. We would like to see 
the Council consider how the international community 
can respond to the calls of the people and communities 
whose  lives  and  livelihoods  are  at  risk  and  who  may 
be  forced  to  leave  their  homes  and  migrate,  owing  to 
climate-change-related events or disasters.
As Chair of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, a group 
of  20  countries  that  are  most  vulnerable  to  climate 
change, and as one of the most disaster-prone countries 
in  the  world,  the  Philippines  places  importance  on 
continually  raising  the  awareness  of  the  international 
community  on  the  very  real  and  damaging  impacts 
of climate change, the effects of which cut across the 
issues  of  human  rights,  migration,  health,  education 
and labour, among others.
On 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
regional 
consultations, 
the  Philippines  presented  Human 
Rights Council resolution 30/14 on the contribution of 
parliaments to the work of the Human Rights Council 
and its Universal Periodic Review. The resolution calls 
for  convening  a  panel  discussion  during  the  thirty-
second  session  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  take 
stock of the contribution of parliaments to the work of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  Universal  Periodic 
Review  and  to  identify  ways  to  further  enhance  their 
contributions. In that regard, the Asia-Pacific regional 
consultation among parliamentarians was spearheaded 
by  the  Philippine  Senate  in  Manila  in  February  this 
year.
The  Philippines  strongly  supports  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  mechanism  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  We  firmly  believe  that  it  is  a  very  useful 
tool  for  effecting  real  change  on  the  ground,  as  it 
encourages all Member States to engage constructively 
and  to  work  towards  improving  the  human  rights 
situation  in  a  country,  based  on  its  national  priorities 
and  international  obligations  and  commitments.  The 
Philippines believes that there is a need for a sharper 
focus on providing international support for capacity-
15-36749
15/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
building to enable countries to better implement their 
accepted recommendations.
In  conclusion,  the  Philippines  will  continue  to 
support  and  actively  engage  in  the  important  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  support  its  role  as 
a venue for genuine and constructive dialogue, with a 
particular focus on capacity-building and international 
cooperation.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
express our deepest condolences to the families of the 
victims  of  those  terrorist  attacks  committed  in  Paris 
last Friday. As His Excellency Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, 
President  of  Mongolia,  stated  last  Friday  night,  “We 
stand united with the people of France, and we have no 
doubt that France will prevail.”
Please allow me to express my Government’s deep 
gratitude for the valuable support extended to Mongolia 
on 28 October when, for the first time, it was elected 
to the Human Rights Council, for the term 2016-2018. 
Mongolia will do its utmost to uphold the trust invested 
in  it  and  help  to  advance  the  cause  of  promoting  and 
protecting human rights around the world. I would also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  introducing  the 
annual report (A/70/53) of the Council. My delegation 
commends  the  efforts  of  the  Council,  which  is  a  key 
platform for constructive dialogue and cooperation to 
promote human rights throughout the world. Its current 
report reveals a realistic picture of current human rights 
violations and challenges worldwide and recommends 
possible  ways  and  instruments  to  defend  human 
rights,  liberty,  equality  and  dignity  while  combating 
intolerance, discrimination and violence.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is 
one of the main pillars of Mongolia’s foreign policy. We 
recognize the centrality of human rights in sustainable 
development  planning  and  acknowledge  that  human 
rights, the rule of law and democratic governance are 
all  interlinked  and  mutually  reinforcing.  Mongolia 
will  continue  to  promote  the  issues  of  human  rights 
education;  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women; the rights of the child, the elderly and persons 
with  disabilities;  the  fight  against  human  trafficking; 
and the abolition of the death penalty.
We  appreciate  the  importance  of  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  (UPR)  process  because  it  gives  all 
Member  States  an  equal  opportunity  to  bring  their 
human rights situation to the attention of that important 
body,  share  lessons  learned  and  good  practices  and 
discuss  challenges  in  the  implementation  of  human 
rights  obligations.  The  second  national  report  of 
Mongolia under the UPR was discussed constructively 
in  May  and  was  received  positively  by  the  UPR 
Working  Group,  which  welcomed  Mongolia’s  efforts 
to 
the  recommendations  made  during 
the  first  UPR  review.  The  Working  Group  made  164 
recommendations,  out  of  which  the  Government  of 
Mongolia accepted 150. Currently, the Government is 
working  on  the  development  of  the  plan  of  action  to 
implement the UPR recommendations.
implement 
Mongolia has consistently supported the work and 
activities conducted under the special procedures of the 
Council, and standing invitations were extended by the 
Government of Mongolia to all mandate-holders in 2004. 
Since  then,  Mongolia  has  received  the  visits  of  eight 
mandate-holders, including the Special Rapporteurs on 
the right to food, on the right to education, on torture, 
on extreme poverty and on human rights, and also the 
Working Group on business and human rights.
Mongolia  appreciates  the  importance  of  the  work 
of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  and  notes  the  increasing  demand 
for  the  Office’s  support  and  activities.  Since  2014, 
Mongolia has been making modest voluntary financial 
contributions  to  the  High  Commissioner’s  Office. 
As  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  should  be 
strengthened, and the work of the High Commissioner’s 
Office for advancing human rights globally should not 
be held back by financial difficulties.
Mongolia believes that human rights are essential 
to  achieving  sustainable  development.  The  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
offers  us  critical  opportunities  to  further  advance  the 
achievement of human rights for all people everywhere 
and without discrimination.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
Government’s  full  commitment  to  contributing  to  the 
Council’s  activities  during  its  membership,  including 
through the voluntary pledges and commitments made 
under  resolution  60/251.  At  the  international  level, 
Mongolia  will  continue  to  support  the  principles  of 
non-selectivity,  universality  and 
indivisibility 
of  human  rights  and  will  work  to  ensure  the  full 
enjoyment  of  human  rights,  including  civil,  political, 
economic,  social  and  cultural  rights  and  the  right  to 
like 
the 
16/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
the  comprehensive 
development.  At  the  national  level,  Mongolia  will 
pursue 
its 
international obligations on human rights and enhance 
the promotion and protection of human rights through 
expanded collaboration with all stakeholders.
implementation  of 
Ms. Al-Nasrallah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): My 
delegation  condemns  the  cowardly  terrorist  attacks 
in  France,  Lebanon  and  Iraq,  attacks  that  call  for  the 
international  community 
international 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
to  combat 
Today, the General Assembly is discussing one of 
the  most  important  items  on  its  agenda.  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  its  report  (A/70/53),  which  outlines  the 
Council’s  recent  work  aimed  at  promoting  human 
rights at the international level and consolidating and 
protecting human rights. We would also like to thank the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Joachim  Rücker.  The  report  covers  numerous  issues 
relating  to  human  rights  and  their  protection  and  to 
fundamental human freedoms. Moreover, it addresses 
the issue of human rights in a number of countries and 
focuses on the role of international organizations and 
on  strengthening  cooperation  throughout  the  world. 
It  also  deals  with  such  important  issues  as  human 
trafficking, the human rights of people with disabilities 
and  the  stepping  up  of  efforts  to  eliminate  all  forms 
of  intolerance,  discrimination  and  violence  against 
women.
The report also includes the outcome of Kuwait’s 
second  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  of  Kuwait, 
which requires the full cooperation of all members of 
the  international  community.  Since  the  endorsement 
of  its  second  UPR  in  January,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
has  made  great  efforts  to  implement  the  outcome  of 
that  review.  In  its  entirety,  the  review  included  278 
recommendations, 178 of which were accepted, because 
they were in line with the Constitution of the State of 
Kuwait. Kuwait duly noted 25 other recommendations, 
and  four  recommendations  were  partially  accepted.  I 
would like to announce that my country has endorsed 
a  bill  to  establish,  pursuant  to  the  Paris  Principles,  a 
national  institution  with  competence  to  promote  and 
protect  human  rights  and  disseminate  human-rights 
norms.
My  country  has  established  a  committee  for  the 
defence of human rights in the National Assembly. It has 
also established public agencies to combat corruption and 
conduct oversight of labour in all sectors. Undoubtedly, 
the concept of human rights is directly connected with 
the Sustainable Development Goals, which is due to the 
fact that the progress of countries can be measured in 
terms of the extent to which they have complied with 
their human rights obligations. Also, the Charter of the 
United Nations calls for the promotion of human rights 
and the protection of fundamental freedoms.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  offered  a  wide  range  of 
humanitarian  assistance  through  intergovernmental 
and  non-governmental  organizations,  including  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights.  We  firmly  believe  in  the  need  to 
promote  international  peace  and  security  and  respect 
for  human  rights.  Against  that  backdrop,  the  State  of 
Kuwait  has  hosted  three  international  conferences  in 
support  of  the  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria  and  to 
alleviate the suffering of the Syrian people, in line with 
report of the Independent International Commission of 
Inquiry  on  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  (A/HRC/30/48). 
Accordingly,  my  delegation  supported  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  29/16,  on  the  continuing  grave 
deterioration  of  the  human  rights  and  humanitarian 
situation in Syria.
As  we  are  discussing  the  question  of  human 
rights, we call for respect for the human rights of the 
individual.  We  would  like  to  strongly  condemn  the 
continuing  brutal  practices  of  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power, and its breach of the basic human rights of the 
helpless Palestinian people in the occupied territories. 
Israel  must  be  forced  to  comply  with  its  obligations 
under  international  human  rights  law.  In  that  regard, 
we  support  all  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Human 
Rights Council referred to in the report.
In conclusion, despite the efforts undertaken by the 
State of Kuwait and the achievements made in the area 
of human rights at the national and international levels, 
our  responsibilities  with  respect  to  this  issue  make  it 
imperative that we continue our efforts to overcome all 
difficulties and challenges so that we can benefit from 
the  body  of  international  experience  and  expertise  in 
our drive to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt):  Egypt  aligns  itself  with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representative  of  Sierra 
Leone,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States,  and 
by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
15-36749
17/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
At  the  outset,  I  would  also  like  to  welcome 
Ambassador Joachim Rücker, Permanent Representative 
of  Germany  to  the  United  Nations  Office  in  Geneva 
and  current  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
The delegation of Egypt would like to thank President 
Rücker for his presentation today of the annual report 
of the Human Rights Council (A/70/53), as well as to 
congratulate him on the dedicated and tireless efforts 
he has made during his presidency of the Council.
Our  meeting  today  comes  in  the  wake  of  the 
abhorrent terrorist attacks in France, Egypt, Beirut and 
many other places around the world, which resulted in 
the  loss  of  scores  of  innocent  lives  and  have  shocked 
the  conscience  of  the  international  community.  The 
dark plague of terrorism and extremism is emerging as 
a fundamental challenge for the global community and 
presents an insurmountable obstacle to the enjoyment of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  particularly 
with regard to the right to life and personal security. We 
welcome the adoption by the Human Rights Council of 
its resolution 28/17, on the effects of terrorism on human 
rights, and we urge the Council to stand united behind 
the  timely  and  critical  message  it  conveys,  namely, 
condemning all acts of terrorism wherever they occur 
and by whomever they are perpetrated and considering 
the devastating impact of terrorism on the enjoyment of 
human rights.
Next year marks the tenth anniversary of the Human 
Rights  Council.  Since  its  inception,  the  Council’s 
pivotal mandate has been to promote and protect human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  globally.  However, 
that  mandate  cannot  be 
implemented  effectively 
unless  it  is  applied  in  accordance  with  the  principles 
of  non-politicization,  non-selectivity,  objectivity, 
universality and international cooperation, and within 
the framework of a genuine intergovernmental dialogue 
on human rights issues. The unprecedented challenges 
that  ensuring  universal  respect  for  human  rights  is 
being subjected to will inevitably require expansion in 
the  work  and  activities  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and result in increased pressures on its resources and 
programme of work.
Egypt firmly supports enhancing the efficiency of 
the  work  of  the  Council  in  that  regard.  We  welcome 
the  adoption  of  A/HRC/PRST/29/1,  on  enhancing 
the  efficiency  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and  the 
subsequent  follow-up  decision,  A/HRC/DEC/30/115. 
Egypt  also  recalls  the  commitments  set  forth  in  the 
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action in favour 
of  the  universality,  indivisibility,  interrelatedness  and 
interdependence of all civil, cultural, economic, political 
and  social  rights,  including  the  right  to  development, 
and  in  support  of  the  principle  that  all  human  rights 
should be treated in a fair and equitable manner, with 
the same emphasis and on an equal footing.
Next  year  marks  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations Declaration on the Right to Development. 
We consider that occasion to be an opportune moment 
to  step  up  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  human  rights  community  to  realize  the 
right to development and further elaborate its normative 
content,  including  by  formulating  measurable  criteria 
and  sub-criteria  towards  its  implementation.  We  also 
look forward to the contributions that the Human Rights 
Council can make in supporting the global partnership 
in  efforts  to  implement  the  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
The  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  realization  of 
economic, social and cultural rights are undoubtedly at 
the  heart  of  the  new  global  development  charter.  We 
are encouraged by the Council’s efforts to adequately 
address  the  challenges  standing  in  the  way  of  the 
attainment  of  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  In 
that regard, we note with great appreciation the Council’s 
adoption  of  its  resolution  28/15,  on  the  right  to  work. 
In that resolution, which Egypt sponsored, the Council 
affirmed  that  decent  work  and  full  and  productive 
employment were an integral part of achieving human 
rights and leading a dignified life.
We are pleased to see that the Human Rights Council 
continues  to  actively  engage  on  issues  of  racism, 
racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  other  related 
forms  of  intolerance,  including  religious  intolerance, 
stigmatization and discrimination and violence on the 
basis of religion and belief. It is a matter for concern 
that we still witness recurring and alarming instances of 
such violations, especially in the context of political and 
electoral  propaganda  and  the  media,  including  social 
media.  This  situation  requires  firm  and  immediate 
action and the full and effective implementation of the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  The 
issue is all the more pressing as a result of the refugee 
and  asylum-seeker  crisis  that  is  currently  unfolding. 
In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  Human  Rights  Council  to 
devote more attention to the human rights of migrants.
My  delegation  congratulates  the  Human  Rights 
Council  on  the  adoption  of  its  resolution  29/22,  on 
18/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
protection of the family, which was led by Egypt and 
a cross-regional core group. By adopting an ambitious 
and substantively comprehensive text by a comfortable 
majority, the Human Rights Council reaffirmed States’ 
obligations  under  international  human  rights  law  to 
provide effective protection for the family as the natural 
and fundamental unit of society. We look forward to the 
relevant report being presented by the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights next March.
On the other hand, we remain concerned by attempts 
to impose new controversial notions and concepts that 
have no basis in international human rights law. That 
approach  could  seriously  undermine  the  universality 
of  human  rights  as  well  as  the  credibility  of  the 
international human rights system.
I  conclude  by 
reiterating  Egypt’s  continued 
support for the work of the Human Rights Council, as 
a subsidiary body of the General Assembly, and for its 
important role in promoting global respect for human 
rights.
Mr. Kaluđerović (Montenegro): Montenegro fully 
aligns itself with the statement delivered on behalf of 
the European Union.
Let me begin by offering my deepest condolences to 
the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris and Lebanon. 
Those  tragic  events  remind  us  of  the  importance  of 
additionally strengthening the Human Rights Council 
and other human rights mechanisms and of joining our 
efforts in tackling terrorism and violent extremism.
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador  Joachim 
Rücker, for presenting the annual report of the Human 
Rights Council (A/70/53) to the General Assembly. We 
appreciate this opportunity to discuss the achievements 
of the Human Rights Council in 2015, bearing in mind 
in particular that this is the last year of our membership 
in  that  body.  I  would  like  to  pay  particular  tribute  to 
Ambassador Rücker for the way in which he discharged 
his duties as President of the Council during its ninth 
year,  and  for  his  personal  engagement  in  developing 
a  set  of  responses  to  the  non-negligible  challenge 
of  improving  the  Council’s  working  methods.  That 
included  a  retreat  hosted  earlier  this  year  in  Berlin, 
which truly helped in developing fruitful ideas on how 
to  additionally  strengthen  the  Geneva  human  rights 
system.
achieving  the  great  objective  of  the  United  Nations, 
namely,  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. The struggle to uphold human rights is waged 
on  behalf  of  the  people  who  suffer  injustice  and  seek 
redress  or  who  are  victims  of  merciless  conduct  by 
violent extremists and violations of international human 
rights and humanitarian law.
As can be learned from the report before us today, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  has  demonstrated  its 
ability to contribute to human rights protection efforts 
around the globe. The Council has continued to tackle 
sensitive issues, deal with many difficult and complex 
human rights situations and bridge differences between 
politically, ideologically and culturally different States 
that  share  a  common  goal  of  combating  a  sometimes 
shocking  degree  of  dereliction  of  duty  and  abuse  of 
human  rights.  In  addition  to  its  regular  sessions,  the 
special one held on Boko Haram has confirmed that the 
Council’s activities are closely tied to today’s extreme 
challenges.
Allow me to express our satisfaction that this year 
the Council adopted two important resolutions for which 
Montenegro was a part of the core group. One is aimed 
at  combating  the  harmful  practice  of  child,  early  and 
forced marriage, in order to prevent children, men and 
particularly women from being left on the margins of 
society. The other is designed to help the Government of 
Sri Lanka to negotiate the country’s difficult processes 
of  reconciliation  and  post-conflict  transition.  Indeed, 
we  believe  we  are  right  in  stating  that  this  resolution 
reflects in miniature the larger objective of the Council, 
namely, bringing together the collective efforts of the 
international  community  and  the  political  will  of  a 
Government with a view to enabling citizens who have 
borne significant suffering in the past to enjoy a more 
peaceful, secure and dignified life.
I turn now to the Human Rights Council’s special 
procedures. This mechanism has proved to be a central 
tool  for  independent  and  impartial  insight  into  the 
human  rights  situation  from  a  thematic  or  country-
specific  perspective.  We  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
the expertise of the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR),  which, 
during  the  course  of  the  year,  continued  to  bring  to 
the  Council’s  attention  alleged  violations  or  abuse,  to 
conduct  thematic  studies  and  to  provide  appropriate 
advice for technical assistance to countries in need.
The  realization  of  human  rights  is  crucial  to 
preserving  democracy  and  freedom.  It  is  essential  to 
In  addition,  we  must  be  aware  that  any  initiative 
that  would  assign  a  subsidiary  role  to  the  OHCHR  in 
15-36749
19/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
relation to the Council would be counterproductive for 
the  independence  of  the  OHCHR.  Rather,  we  should 
further  strengthen  the  Council  and  the  OHCHR  by 
finding a way of making the two bodies more sensitive 
to  each  other’s  recommendations,  and  by  advocating 
for  a  more  sensitive  approach  when  deciding  on  the 
financial  means  needed  for  their  complementary  and 
independent duties. In that regard, we will continue to 
advocate  for  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  OHCHR 
to  be  provided,  in  future,  with  adequate  resources  to 
conduct their important duties.
We must pay sincere tribute to the Universal Periodic 
Review mechanism, which continues to be an important 
incentive  for  improving  the  human  rights  situation  in 
the countries under review. As the third cycle is about 
to start, the success and results of the implementation 
phase  will  determine  the  efficiency  and  ultimate 
credibility  of  the  mechanism  and  will  demonstrate 
the  extent  of  States’  engagement  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights.  Montenegro  pays  a 
great deal of attention to the mechanism and recently 
submitted its mid-term report on the implementation of 
the recommendations received during the second cycle. 
We  are  also  in  the  process  of  developing  a  national 
mechanism to follow up the recommendations received 
by way of the special procedures and treaty bodies.
As  the  Human  Rights  Council  approaches  its 
tenth  anniversary,  we  often  ask  ourselves  whether 
we  have  built  an  appropriate  and  credible  mechanism 
to  cope  with  the  continuing  new  challenges  that  face 
the  international  community.  It  is  difficult  to  assess 
results, given the daily gross violations of human rights 
for  which  perpetrators  are  often  not  held  accountable 
and given the violent extremism and terrorism that are 
bent on disrupting the struggle for peace and security.
Syria’s  citizens  continue  to  bear  enormous  pain 
owing  to  the  conflict.  Many  have  been  forced  to  flee 
their homes, possibly becoming victims of trafficking 
and  smuggling.  A  large  percentage  of  the  citizens 
live  in  hunger  and  poverty.  Women  still  do  not  enjoy 
the  same  rights  as  men  and  continue  to  face  harsh 
forms of discrimination. Some Governments continue 
inexorably  to  ignore  the  international  community’s 
appeals  to  improve  the  human  rights  situation.  That 
attitude usually goes hand in hand with a narrow civil-
society  space  in  which  human  rights  defenders  face 
increasing intimidation and harassment.
It is also unfortunate that in every part of the world 
difference  continues  to  be  perceived  as  dangerous  to 
society  rather  than  an  enrichment.  That  includes  the 
ongoing  violence,  harassment  and  discrimination 
carried out against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender 
and intersex persons. And, finally, it is terrifying that 
the whole world must guard against possible activities 
on the part of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, 
Boko  Haram  and  other  terrorist  and  violent  extremist 
groups.
Such  negative  phenomena  must  not  discourage 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  but  should 
make  it  more  alert  to  contemporary  threats  and  help 
in  building  a  more  preventive  approach  to  human 
rights  challenges.  In  that  regard,  the  Human  Rights 
Council has truly achieved success in raising the level 
of accountability of States in human rights protection 
worldwide.  We  often  underestimate  the  fact  that  the 
success of the Council and other human rights bodies 
in  facing  contemporary  challenges  depends  on  our 
own  readiness  to  use  that  international  forum  to  call 
for  perpetrators  of  serious  human  rights  violations 
to  be  brought  to  justice,  for  Governments  to  be  held 
accountable  to  their  citizens  and  for  a  proactive 
approach to to be taken to building a culture of respect 
for human rights as the only acceptable standard.
We  are  the  ones  who  need  to  ensure  that  in  our 
international deliberations we extend the same corpus of 
rights to each individual member of society, regardless 
of ethnic, religious, sexual or any other affiliation. We 
must also recognize and respect the important role of 
civil society in the Council and on the ground. And we 
need to ensure that the same goals we promote in the 
Human  Rights  Council  are  mirrored  within  our  own 
borders.
With that in mind, let me assure the Assembly that, 
upon  ceasing  to  be  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  Montenegro  will  continue  its  engagement 
to uphold human rights and protect the dignity of the 
human  individual.  We  hope  that  our  efforts  in  that 
regard, both at the national and the international level, 
will  win  us  re-election  to  that  eminent  body  for  the 
period 2022-2024.
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  we  would  like  to  express  our  heartfelt 
condolences  and  sympathy  to  the  victims  of  the 
criminal  and  terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  in  a 
number  of  neighbourhoods  in  the  French  capital  of 
Paris and claimed the lives of many people. We strongly 
condemn  such  terrorist  attacks,  which  run  counter  to 
all  moral,  humanitarian  and  religious  values  and  are 
20/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
aimed at the destabilization of countries and the killing 
of innocents. We pray for the full and speedy recovery 
of all of the injured victims.
Allow me to express our thanks to the President of 
the Human Rights Council for his briefing to the General 
Assembly  on  the  work  of  the  Council.  We  appreciate 
the  work  that  he  has  undertaken  in  order  to  ensure 
respect for human rights in all countries. We endorse 
the contents of his reports (A/70/53 and A/70/53/Add.1) 
for their valuable and important information.
My country has supported the Human Rights Council 
since  its  inception  as  the  primary  organ  concerned 
with  human  rights  within  the  United  Nations  system. 
While  we  commend  the  Council  for  its  impartiality, 
objectivity  and  non-selectivity,  we  must  make  every 
effort to ensure that the Council continues to fulfil its 
functions in improving the standards of human rights 
and  addressing  human  rights  violations,  including 
expeditious  responses 
to  emergencies,  promoting 
the  rights  to  development  and  education,  combating 
violence and putting an end to impunity. We strongly 
oppose attempts made by other parties to undermine the 
Council’s efforts. We also commend the efforts of the 
Council  to  provide  technical  assistance  and  capacity-
building to countries so that they can fulfil their human 
rights  obligations,  as  well  as  the  Council’s  growing 
and  effective  role  in  promoting  and  consolidating  the 
culture  of  human  rights  while  increasing  awareness. 
In  that  regard,  we  call  for  continuing  support  for  the 
Human  Rights  Council  so  as  to  enable  it  to  continue 
its efforts, in view of the growing number of mandates 
that  have  been  established  and  that  require  increased 
resources.
it  contributes 
Additionally,  we  would  like  to  underline  the 
importance  of  the  family,  which  is  the  primary 
component  of  society  because 
to 
building  societies  and  promoting  development.  I  take 
this  opportunity  to  endorse  the  adoption  of  Council 
resolution 26/11, regarding the protection of the family, 
which is at the heart of the work of the Human Rights 
Council.  We  look  forward  to  the  report  that  will  be 
submitted  in  tandem  with  the  implementation  of  that 
important resolution.
The  State  of  Qatar,  represented  by  its  wise 
leadership,  accords  high  priority  to  the  respect  of 
human  rights  in  the  context  of  the  overall  policy 
reform undertaken by our country in accordance with 
its comprehensive development vision, Qatar National 
Vision  2030.  The  latter  includes  the  improvement  of 
health care and education, the mainstreaming of human 
rights in educational curricula, the promotion of human 
rights for women, children and persons with disabilities, 
combating human trafficking and improving conditions 
for foreign labourers. As a member of the Human Rights 
Council, Qatar is committed to fulfilling its obligations 
in the area of human rights, safeguarding humanitarian 
principles,  promoting  and  consolidating  the  concepts 
and culture of human rights and cooperating with the 
Council.  That  has  been  reflected  in  our  participation 
in  the  Council  in  discussions  regarding  the  second 
Universal Periodic Review cycle.
Qatar  continues  to  improve  its  record  in  the 
area  of  human  rights,  which  has  been  substantiated 
by  its  standing  invitation  to  all  special-procedures 
mandate-holders.  Qatar  received  a  visit  from  the 
Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants in 
November 2013 and welcomed the visit of the Special 
Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers 
in January 2014. Qatar is also host to the United Nations 
Human  Rights  Training  and  Documentation  Centre 
for  South-West  Asia  and  the  Arab  Region  in  Doha. 
Tomorrow, on 17 November, the Third Committee will 
consider  the  draft  resolution  on  the  United  Nations 
Centre,  and  we  would  like  to  thank  the  sponsors  of 
that draft resolution, which has been submitted for the 
fourth time since the inception of the Centre in 2005.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
commitment 
to  participating  constructively  and 
impartially  in  the  area  of  human  rights  and  to 
cooperating with the relevant United Nations agencies 
and international organizations in line with international 
standards,  and  especially  with  the  Human  Rights 
Council and its specialized organs and mechanisms.
Mr.  Otepola 
(Nigeria):  Nigeria 
joins  other 
delegations  in  conveying  our  condolences  to  the 
Governments  and  the  peoples  of  France,  Iraq  and 
Lebanon,  who  have  suffered  unwarranted  attacks  on 
harmless and innocent individuals. Nigeria views those 
attacks  as  directed  not  only  against  those  people,  but 
against  all  of  humankind.  Our  hearts  are  with  those 
who have lost loved ones and those injured during the 
unprovoked attacks.
My delegation warmly welcomes the President of the 
Human Rights Council, Ambassador Joachim Rücker, 
to New York and thanks him for the presentation of the 
report of the Human Rights Council for 2015 (A/70/53).
15-36749
21/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries and by the representative of Sierra Leone on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
Respect 
rights  and 
for  human 
fundamental 
freedoms  lies  at  the  heart  of  Nigeria’s  constitutional 
democracy. In that respect, we consider it important not 
just to ensure the promotion and protection of human 
rights within Nigeria, but also to uphold the tenets of 
those  rights.  Consequently,  Nigeria  will  continue  its 
active  engagement  with  the  Human  Rights  Council 
as the main organ of the United Nations charged with 
promoting and protecting human rights. We also want 
to  join  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
saying  that  human  rights,  as  one  of  the  three  pillars 
of the United Nations, is closely tied to the two other 
pillars,  namely,  peace  and  security  and  development. 
Without  peace  there  can  be  no  development,  and 
without development, there can be no peace.
However,  it  is  also  a  fact  that  without  human 
rights  there  would  be  neither  peace  and  security  nor 
development. The extent to which those rights mutually 
reinforce  one  another  underscores  the  important  role 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  activities  of  the 
Council  during  the  reporting  period  clearly  indicate 
the  effort  that  has  gone  into  the  fulfilment  of  its 
mandate.  The  Council’s  three  annual  regular  sessions 
and  the  various  special  sessions  devoted  to  specific 
issues  underscore  the  determination  of  the  Council 
to  address  human  rights  issues  of  global  concern. 
One  of  those  special  sessions  was  on  the  atrocities 
committed  by  the  terrorist  group  Boko  Haram.  We 
welcome the support of the Human Rights Council in 
the fight against Boko Haram — as set out in Council 
resolution  S-23/1,  reproduced  in  its  report  of  1  April 
2015 (A/HRC/S-23/2) — while promoting humanitarian 
assistance to refugees and internally displaced persons 
and technical assistance to the multinational joint task 
force, to which Nigeria has made available the sum of 
$100 million for its operationalization. We would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  assure  the  international 
community  of  our  firm  commitment  to  protecting 
human rights while fighting terrorism.
The  various  special  procedures  of  the  Council 
continue  to  play  a  vital  role  in  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  The  wide  range  of  topics 
they  cover  and  handle  clearly  demonstrates 
the 
variety  of  the  issues  that  the  Council  is  seized  with. 
We greatly appreciate their reports to the Council and 
their  interactive  meetings  with  the  Third  Committee. 
We  have  demonstrated  our  support  for  the  special 
procedures by issuing a standing invitation to them to 
visit Nigeria.
We urge that the work of the Council continue to 
be  guided  by  resolution  60/251  and  solidly  based  on 
the  fundamental  principles  underpinning  the  Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action on human rights. 
While  we  see  the  Council  as  a  unique  tool  for  the 
protection and promotion of all human rights, whether 
civil,  political,  economic,  social  or  cultural,  we  are 
also of the view that a focus on economic, social and 
cultural rights might be the Council’s own contribution 
to  assisting  States 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (see resolution 70/1).
in  attaining 
The  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  has  so  far 
proved  to  be  very  successful  as  a  reliable  mechanism 
for addressing human rights violations. It is remarkable 
that,  since  the  first  session  of  the  Working  Group  on 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  in  February  2008,  the 
mechanism  has  attracted  a  high  level  of  participation 
by States. The second cycle of the UPR has reinforced 
the mechanism’s importance as a means of promoting 
and protecting human rights across the world.
Nigeria  acknowledges 
the  active  participation 
of  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  in  the 
activities  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  welcome 
the  Council’s  engagement  with  NGOs  as  a  way  of 
allowing the people’s voice to be heard, but at the same 
time  we  hope  its  report  will  be  guided  by  facts  and 
objectivity. We would also like to see the Council pay 
greater  attention  to  the  human  rights  situation  in  all 
non-self-governing territories, with the specific aim of 
holding the administering Powers to their commitment 
to preparing such territories for full independence.
Finally,  Nigeria  will  continue  to  emphasize  the 
promotion  of  human  rights  and  the  protection  of 
human  dignity.  We  believe  that  equity  and  equality, 
practised  by  all,  for  all  humankind,  must  be  part  of 
the  basic  foundation  of  the  activities  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council, 
in  accordance  with  universally 
agreed-on  principles  of  human  rights,  for  the  benefit 
of  the  global  community.  In  that  connection,  we  call 
on  the  international  community  to  assist  Nigeria  and 
other countries in similar situations in their efforts to 
recover  and  return  illicit  funds  and  stolen  assets,  in 
22/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
order to enable those countries to enjoy human rights 
for development.
Mr.  González  Franco  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish): I would first like to express the condolences 
and  full  solidarity  of  the  Government  and  the  people 
of  Paraguay  to  the  Governments  and  the  peoples  of 
Iraq, Lebanon and France for the terrible attacks they 
suffered last week.
Paraguay  welcomes  the  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/70/53),  presented  by 
Ambassador  Joachim  Rücker,  alongside  whom  my 
country, representing the Group of Latin American and 
Caribbean States (GRULAC), had the honour of serving 
as a Vice-President of the Council. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank the GRULAC States for the 
trust they placed in us, as well as the President for all 
the work accomplished during his tenure. Our work in 
the Bureau was conducted with transparency and in a 
constructive  and  conciliatory  spirit,  while  respecting 
the principles of universality and non-selectivity.
Paraguay  considers  the  Human  Rights  Council 
to  be  fundamentally  important  not  only  within  the 
United  Nations,  but  in  the  world.  Its  role  as  the  main 
intergovernmental body responsible for promoting and 
protecting  human  rights  cannot  be  overemphasized. 
It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  remain  committed  to 
strengthening the Council and, above all, as States, to 
cooperating  in  enabling  it  to  carry  out  its  duties  and, 
where  appropriate,  providing  it  with  the  resources  it 
needs to perform effectively and adequately.
We  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  as  a  mechanism  that  enables  us 
to  monitor  the  progress  and  the  challenges  that  all 
countries deal with in the field of human rights, and to 
be monitored in our turn, and we believe that universal 
mechanism  should  be  an  inspiration  to  other  United 
Nations  bodies.  While  we  do  not  doubt  the  impact 
of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  on  the  ground,  I 
believe  we  should  strengthen  compliance  with  its 
recommendations at the national level.
Implementing  the  human  rights  recommendations 
of  that  universal  and  regional  system  is  a  priority  for 
my  country.  For  that  reason  and  based  on  Paraguay’s 
positive  experience  in  that  area  and  our  awareness 
of  the  responsibility  that  membership  in  the  Human 
Rights Council implies, we and Brazil led the action on 
the resolution that the Council adopted at its thirtieth 
session on strengthening national human rights follow-
up  systems  and  processes.  That  resolution  aims  to 
share  examples  of  best  practices  in  implementing 
recommendations,  while  emphasizing  the  need  to 
strengthen  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
and  States  so  as  to  improve  countries’  institutional 
capacities in the area.
I  would  also  like  to  highlight  that,  together  with 
Albania, Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala, Greece, Mexico, 
Norway,  Switzerland  and  Uruguay,  we  sponsored  the 
resolution entitled “Contribution of the Human Rights 
Council to the special session of the General Assembly 
on the world drug problem of 2016”, with the main aim 
of ensuring that the Council contributes a human rights 
approach to the discussion of the issue, especially at the 
special session of the Assembly to be held in 2016. I am 
also pleased to be able to say that the Southern Common 
Market, of which my country is the current President, 
promoted  the  Council’s  adoption  of  the  resolution 
entitled “The incompatibility between democracy and 
racism”.
The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its commitment 
to  the  effective  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  throughout  the  world.  We  firmly  believe  that 
the dignity and rights of all people should be protected 
without  discrimination.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
plays  a  key  role  in  that  endeavour,  which  is  why  we 
urge  that  it  continue  to  carry  out  its  functions  with 
objectivity,  impartiality  and  universality.  I  therefore 
call on States to continue to cooperate with the Council 
and to provide it with the assistance it needs to fulfil 
its goals.
Ms.  Izanova  (Kazakhstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  would  first  like  to  express  our  deep  and  heartfelt 
condolences to all the victims of the acts of terrorism 
in Paris, Baghdad and Beirut. We firmly condemn such 
attacks.
I would like to welcome His Excellency Mr. Joachim 
Rücker, President of the Human Rights Council, and to 
thank him for his presentation of the Council’s report 
(A/70/53).
During the past year, Kazakhstan participated in the 
work of the Council as a Vice-President, representing the 
Asia-Pacific Group. As a Bureau member, Kazakhstan 
participated  directly  in  the  organization  of  the  work 
for the Council’s ninth cycle. Unfortunately, the cycle 
took  place  against  the  backdrop  of  an  escalation  in 
armed conflicts, terrorist acts and grave humanitarian 
15-36749
23/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
crises.  As  a  result,  the  Council’s  agenda  was  focused 
on 
issues  of  migration,  refugees  and  combating 
terrorism.  Nevertheless,  during  its  regular  sessions, 
the  Council  also  continued  to  work  successfully  on  a 
wide  range  of  other  human  rights  issues,  as  reflected 
in the report. In that regard, we wish to commend the 
stellar  professionalism  of  the  Council’s  President  in 
organizing the work of the Council effectively, and we 
take this opportunity to thank him for the joint work of 
the Bureau.
We  support  the  efforts  to  increase  the  Council’s 
productivity  pursuant  to  the  adoption  at  the  twenty-
ninth  session  of  President’s  statement  A/HRC/
PRST/29/1, on 3 July. We also support efforts to achieve 
closer  dialogue  between  the  Council  and  the  Third 
Committee and to improve cooperation between those 
bodies. In order to increase the efficacy of both bodies, 
we  believe  that  it  would  be  beneficial  to  find  areas 
where duplicative practices can be eliminated.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Council’s  activity 
should be based, first and foremost, on the principle of 
protecting women and children. As a traditional sponsor 
of a draft resolution on that issue, Kazakhstan moved, 
at the March session, to include in the draft the issues 
of protecting children in efforts to combat violence and 
prevent child suicide and the use of children in armed 
conflict. We thank the other countries on the Council 
that supported Council resolution 28/19.
The  activity  of  the  Council  must  be  based  on  the 
principles  of  dialogue  among  equals  and  constructive 
cooperation. Those principles must remain fundamental 
in  the  consideration  of  all  Council  agenda  items, 
without  exception,  including  country-specific  items. 
In that regard, we support the consensus resolution on 
Sri  Lanka.  We  also  support  the  initiatives  of  several 
countries to further promote the right to development. 
In  the  light  of  the  recently  adopted  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the 
upcoming thirtieth anniversary of the Declaration on the 
Right to Development, the Council must pay appropriate 
attention to the right to development in the upcoming 
anniversary  year.  We  also  feel  that  it  is  essential  to 
approach  all  categories  of  human  rights  —  civil, 
political, economic, social and cultural — in a balanced 
manner within the Council.
We  wish  to  note  separately  that  Kazakhstan 
continues  to  actively  cooperate  with  the  Council  and 
with  its  mechanisms  and  procedures.  In  just  the  past 
its 
interest 
two  years,  our  country  was  visited  by  four  Special 
Rapporteurs.  Kazakhstan  stresses 
in 
furthering  dialogue  with  the  Special  Rapporteurs. 
During  the  same  period,  Kazakhstan  presented  its 
latest report to the four United Nations treaty bodies, 
completed the second Universal Periodic Review cycle 
and ratified the international Convention on the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities. We wish also to note that, 
beginning in 2008, Kazakhstan has provided a yearly, 
voluntary contribution to the budget of the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
To conclude, please allow me to wish every success 
to the new members of the Bureau and to express our 
hope  that  they  will  make  a  significant  contribution 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  I 
would  like  to  reiterate  Kazakhstan’s  commitment  to 
protecting  fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms 
and to cooperating closely with all mechanisms of the 
global human rights system.
Mr.  Bishnoi  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  offer  our 
heartfelt  condolences  for  the  victims  of  the  terrorist 
attacks in Beirut and Paris last week.
We  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council for his briefing on the activities of the Council, 
and  we  welcome  his  report  (A/70/53).  I  would  also 
like to place on record our appreciation to him for the 
smooth and effective manner in which he has conducted 
the deliberations of the Council.
We align ourselves with the statement made by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  evolved  into  an 
indispensable forum for voluntary participation and for 
sharing national experiences and best practices in the 
protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights.  The  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development envisages
“a world of universal respect for human rights and 
human dignity, the rule of law, justice, equality and 
non-discrimination” (resolution 70/1, para. 8).
The  clear  reflection  of  human  rights  principles  and 
standards in the people-centred 2030 Agenda underlines 
the  collective  political  will  to  strive  to  synergize  the 
work of the United Nations in its three pillars of peace 
and security, development and human rights.
The Human Rights Council now has an even more 
important role to play. It must continue to strengthen its 
24/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
adherence to the fundamental principles of universality, 
transparency,  impartiality,  objectivity,  non-selectivity 
and constructive international dialogue, while seeking 
to  realize  human  rights  for  all.  The  Council  must 
ensure  that  the  indivisibility,  interrelatedness  and 
interdependence of all human rights, including the right 
to development, are respected and dealt with in a fair 
and equal manner.
The universality of human rights cannot, however, 
be  construed  as  a  universality  of  values  and  systems. 
The  Council  must  bear  in  mind  the  significance 
of  national  and  regional  particularities  and  of  the 
various  historical,  cultural  and  religious  backgrounds 
of  countries  in  its  dialogues  with  Member  States. 
The  unique  and  positive  mechanism  of  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  (UPR)  is  widely  accepted  and  has 
bolstered  the  credibility  of  the  institution.  As  we 
approach  the  third  cycle  of  the  UPR  and  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  Council,  we  need  to  maintain  the 
universality of the mechanism and further improve its 
efficiency by rationalizing recommendations. We must 
refrain from using it to impose specific thematic issues 
that have not acquired universal acceptance. We should 
also find ways to support developing countries in the 
implementation  of  their  accepted  recommendations 
through capacity-building.
I  would  like  to  mention  that  the  success  of 
dialogue  with  the  important  mechanism  of  special 
procedures  hinges  on  their  continued  independence 
and impartiality and on the related tasks being carried 
out with responsibility and sensitivity. Another concern 
is  the  Council’s  continued  dependence  on  voluntary 
funding. It is clear that the Council needs to continue to 
rationalize its priorities to make the most efficient use 
of limited resources.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation  to  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al  Hussein,  and  his 
Office  for  assisting  States  in  their  efforts  to  promote 
and  protect  human  rights.  The  unique  role  played  by 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights (OHCHR) in fulfilling its mandate is 
unparalleled in the United Nations. At the same time, 
we share the view that the inherent ambiguities in the 
governance  and  administrative  arrangements  of  the 
Office, including in the funding, geographical diversity 
of  staffing  and  strategic  planning,  are  hindering  its 
optimal performance, as highlighted in the recent Joint 
Inspection Unit review report. In that regard, we take 
note of the efforts of the High Commissioner to improve 
efficiency and streamline the work of his Office through 
the change initiative. Those efforts notwithstanding, it 
is important, in our view, for Member States to agree on 
a  mechanism  to  comprehensively  address  those  long-
standing issues, including enhancing the transparency 
and accountability of OHCHR.
It is our long-held belief that human rights issues 
cannot be approached in isolation, which would ignore 
the complex and intricate relationship between human 
rights,  development,  democracy  and 
international 
cooperation.  As  we  approach  the  tenth  anniversary 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  must  also  remain 
mindful  of  the  reasons  for  its  creation  and  avoid 
repeating past mistakes.
The Council should respect the right of each State 
to  organize  and  manage  its  affairs,  including  in  the 
field of human rights, and guard against falling into the 
trap of putting a country in the spotlight in a selective 
manner  and  engaging  in  intrusive  monitoring,  which 
has,  time  and  again,  proven  to  be  counterproductive. 
The  need  of  the  hour  is  to  ensure  that  the  Council 
continues to function in a non-selective, non-politicized, 
non-confrontational and transparent manner. We must 
guarantee full respect for the core principles of Article 
2  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the 
sovereign  equality,  territorial  integrity  and  political 
independence  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.
As a member, India remains committed to making 
the  Human  Rights  Council  a  strong,  effective  and 
efficient  body  capable  of  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, so that 
it retains its pre-eminent place as a leading international 
human rights institution.
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  is  deeply  shocked  and  concerned  by 
the  terrorist  attacks  perpetrated  last  week  in  Beirut, 
Baghdad  and  Paris.  Switzerland  strongly  condemns 
those heinous acts, which go against the fundamental 
values of any society, and assures the countries affected 
of its full solidarity. It expresses its deepest condolences 
to the families of the victims and the countries affected 
by that scourge.
Switzerland  thanks  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  his  presentation.  The  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  are  priorities  for 
Switzerland. They are among its most treasured values. 
15-36749
25/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
Switzerland attaches paramount importance to the role 
of  the  Council  and  to  its  effectiveness,  as  well  as  to 
maximizing its impact in ensuring  respect for human 
rights  throughout  the  world.  As  the  host  State  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  Switzerland  believes  that  it 
has  a  special  responsibility  to  support  the  Council  in 
achieving  its  objectives.  Moreover,  we  are  especially 
pleased  to  have  been  elected  to  the  Council  for  the 
2016-2018  term,  and  thus  to  be  able  to  continue  our 
major commitment to the promotion and protection of 
human rights as a full member.
Switzerland expresses its gratitude to the President 
of the Council and congratulates him on the exemplary 
manner in which he has performed as President over the 
past year. In particular, we welcome the fact that, under 
his presidency, priority has been given to cooperation 
with  civil  society,  to  strengthening  the  human  rights 
pillar of the United Nations and to an element that we 
believe contributes considerably to that strengthening, 
namely, improving the working methods of the Human 
Rights Council.
In  the  course  of  its  sessions,  the  Council  has 
succeeded in adapting to new human rights challenges 
by  extending  the  scope  of  its  activities,  both  at  the 
thematic level and in terms of country situations. That 
wider field of activity is clear proof of its success. But 
to  some  extent,  the  Council  has  also  been  a  victim 
of  its  success.  Having  increased  and  diversified  its 
activities  to  such  an  extent,  it  has  reached  the  limit 
of  its  capacities.  That  is  why  Switzerland  commends 
the progress made during the presidency in improving 
the working methods of the Council. We welcome the 
fact  that  concrete  proposals  were  made,  and  we  will 
continue to support the operationalization of initiatives 
aimed at achieving more effective and efficient working 
methods.
Strengthening the human rights pillar of the United 
Nations is essential for ensuring that human rights are 
respected everywhere in the world. That reinforcement 
is achieved by addressing more closely human-rights-
related issues within all the bodies of the United Nations. 
From  that  perspective,  we  welcome  in  particular  the 
President’s personal commitment to strengthening the 
link between the Human Rights Council and the Third 
Committee, and also with the Security Council, through 
his participation in several meetings and events on this 
side of the Atlantic. That closer contact between Geneva 
and New York is helping to strengthen the human rights 
pillar throughout the United Nations system.
Civil-society actors are key partners of the United 
Nations  system.  Close  cooperation  between  them 
and  the  Council  is  essential  for  ensuring  respect  for 
human rights in the world. Switzerland is nevertheless 
concerned  about  the  ever-increasing  number  of  cases 
of  intimidation  and  reprisals  against  individual  civil-
society  members,  in  particular  those  who  cooperate 
with United Nations mechanisms. Switzerland calls on 
all States Members of the United Nations to ensure the 
protection of those individuals.
I would like to conclude by assuring the President 
of the Council of Switzerland’s continued commitment 
to  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  the  continuation  of 
its essential work in protecting and promoting human 
rights.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
My  delegation  joins  in  condemning,  in  the  strongest 
possible terms, the terrorist acts that were committed 
in  Baghdad,  Beirut  and  Paris  recently,  and  expresses 
the condolences of the Government and the people of 
Mexico  to  the  families  and  peoples  of  Iraq,  Lebanon 
and France.
Mexico  welcomes  the  report  submitted  by  the 
President of the Human Rights Council (A/70/53), and 
the  work  done  by  the  Council  at  its  twenty-eighth, 
twenty-ninth  and  thirtieth  sessions,  as  well  as  at  the 
twenty-third  special  session.  As  we  have  mentioned 
on  other  occasions,  the  Council’s  report  provides  a 
unique opportunity to review the main elements of its 
progress, and for delegations to express their concerns 
with regard to the functioning of the universal system 
of  human  rights.  The  Council  is  at  the  centre  of  that 
system, and therefore the analysis of its report will have 
a positive and visible impact on improving the situation 
of human rights throughout the world.
Mexico  wishes  to  stress  the  sound  functioning  of 
the Universal Periodic Review mechanism, a tool that 
has most likely been one of the main contributions of 
the Human Rights Council. The peer-review scrutiny, 
which  is  carried  out  constructively  and  progressively, 
must  be  viewed  as  an  opportunity  to  improve  the 
national human rights situations in all Member States 
and  allows  one  to  avoid  falling  into  any  kind  of 
complacency or deception.
Reflection  on  the  functioning  of  the  Council  is  a 
process that must focus on continuing improvement of 
the way it works. Mexico has insisted on the importance 
of  adopting  a  qualitative  rather  than  quantitative 
26/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
approach  in  assessing  the  impact  of  the  Council.  We 
must also ensure the effectiveness of its deliberations, 
and we say this given the proliferation of resolutions and 
mandates, which stands in contrast to the effectiveness 
of its work in the field.
We welcome the President’s statement A/HRC/PRST/29/1 
and Council decision 30/115, on enhancing the efficiency
of  the  Council,  adopted  this  year.  They  will  help  to 
promote  the  adoption  of  certain  initial  measures  that 
will  optimize  the  work  of  the  Council  by  adjusting 
the work timetable of the Advisory Committee in the 
process of considering the applications of those aspiring 
to be mandate-holders.
Mexico firmly maintains the right of members of 
the Council to submit initiatives that will contribute to 
the  treatment  by  that  body  of  the  major  topics  within 
the  human  rights  field.  However,  Mexico  emphasizes 
that, in order to implement that right, the members must 
take a constructive approach when submitting a draft 
resolution. A constructive approach in the resolutions 
process  is  essential  so  as  to  ensure  the  strengthening 
of  international  human  rights.  The  wording  of  the 
initiatives  must  seek  to  create  a  constructive  and 
balanced text aimed at achieving consensus among all 
the  views  of  its  members.  They  must  fundamentally 
promote  respect  for  equal  rights  and  the  principles 
of 
and 
non-selectivity, which, under its mandate, regulate the 
functioning of the Council.
universality, 
impartiality, 
objectivity 
Ten  years  after  its  establishment,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  represents  an  important  step  forward 
for the United Nations. It is time to continue improving 
procedures  and  to  begin  implementing  some  of  the 
measures  discussed  so  as  to  make  the  work  of  the 
Council more effective and, above all, so that concrete 
results  on  the  ground  can  ensue  for  all  individuals 
everywhere.
Mr.  Hetesy  (Hungary):  Hungary 
the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Mr.  Joachim 
Rücker, for presenting the annual report of the Council 
(A/70/53) to the General Assembly.
thanks 
Hungary  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the observer of the European Union, and 
joins others in expressing its deepest condolences to all 
the peoples and the Governments affected by the recent 
terrorist attacks.
Hungary  reiterates  its  full  and  continued  support 
for  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its 
mechanisms. We have been an active supporter of the 
Council since its establishment, in 2006, including by 
taking  a  leading  role  in  introducing  draft  resolutions 
on  the  independence  of  the  judiciary  and  on  the 
question  of  reprisals.  Hungary  was  a  member  of  the 
Council  between  2009  and  2012,  and  served  as  one 
of  the  Vice-Presidents  between  2011  and  2012.  We 
have  presented  our  candidature  for  membership  in 
the Council for the period 2017-2019. We are strongly 
committed to the protection of human rights defenders 
and firmly believe that the participation of civil society 
in  the  work  of  the  Council  is  essential.  We  remain 
deeply concerned about continued acts of intimidation 
and  reprisals  against  those  who  cooperate  or  seek  to 
cooperate with the United Nations, its representatives 
and  mechanisms  in  the  field  of  human  rights.  In  that 
regard, we welcome the actions taken by the President 
of the Human Rights Council to address that important 
issue, as he explained in his statement delivered today.
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  Universal 
Periodic Review (UPR) and believe that, over the past 
seven years, the UPR has established itself as a unique 
and important peer-review mechanism. In our national 
capacity, we have submitted our mid-term UPR report, 
and  we  are  now  preparing  our  second  review,  to  be 
held  in  the  spring  of  2016.  We  also  strongly  support 
the  work  of  the  special  procedures  of  the  Council, 
which play a crucial role in advancing the human rights 
agenda of the United Nations. Hungary, in line with the 
strong plea of the President this morning, has extended 
a  standing  invitation  to  all  human  rights  experts 
from  the  special  procedures,  and  we  will  continue  to 
cooperate with experts who have pertinent mandates by 
facilitating their country visits, responding in a timely 
manner  to  their  communications  and  acting  on  their 
recommendations.
In  the  past,  we  have  facilitated  the  visits  of 
six  different  experts  with  human  rights  mandates 
to  Hungary,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  upcoming 
visits  of  the  United  Nations  Working  Group  on 
Discrimination  against  Women  in  Law  and  Practice, 
the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights 
defenders  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to 
the  freedoms  of  peaceful  assembly  and  association. 
Hungary continues to host the annual Budapest Human 
Rights  Forum  as  part  of  its  commitment  to  raise 
awareness about the human rights issues that are high 
on  the  international  community’s  agenda.  The  eighth 
Budapest Human Rights Forum, held last week at the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, was dedicated 
15-36749
27/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
to the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations and 
featured discussions about human rights and sustainable 
development,  the  participation  of  minorities  and  the 
universal periodic review.
Nations framework, and also on ensuring the continued 
effectiveness  of  the  Council  and  of  the  Committee  to 
contribute to the development and protection of human 
rights.
importance 
to 
Hungary  attaches  great 
the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  As  co-Chair  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  Hungary  worked  with  Member  States  and 
other stakeholders to ensure that the Goals and targets 
of  the  2030  Agenda  reflected  the  universality  and 
indivisibility of all human rights. The 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  promises  peaceful,  just  and 
inclusive societies that are free from fear and violence, 
and it incorporates important elements on democratic 
governance,  the  rule  of  law,  access  to  justice  and  the 
protection of fundamental freedoms. The Agenda also 
places the principles of equality and non-discrimination 
at  the  centre  of  sustainable  development  efforts.  If 
implemented effectively, the Agenda will go a long way 
towards ensuring the fulfilment of human rights for all. 
We  therefore  believe  that  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and its mechanisms can also contribute to the effective 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  Hungary’s  full 
support for the work of the Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Jürgenson  (Estonia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to express my deepest condolences to the families 
of the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris. We stand 
in  solidarity  with  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
France.
Estonia aligns itself with the statement made by the 
observer of the European Union, and we would like to 
make some additional remarks in our national capacity.
Estonia  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  to  the  President  of 
the  Council,  Mr.  Joachim  Rücker,  for  his  presence 
here  today  and  for  presenting  his  overview  on  the 
developments of the past year.
Estonia  will  conclude  its  term  in  the  Human 
Rights  Council  at  the  end  of  this  year,  having  been  a 
member  since  2013.  We  support  the  regular  exchange 
of information and the efforts made to coordinate the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  that  of  the 
Third  Committee.  We  hope  that  the  Council  and  the 
Committee will support and complement each other’s 
work.  Furthermore,  we  must  work  on  incorporating 
human  rights  issues  consistently  within  the  United 
During our term in the Human Rights Council, we 
have  focused  on  ensuring  and  protecting  democracy, 
the rule of law, good governance and fighting impunity 
in all forms, with emphasis on supporting the activities 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  In  addition,  we 
have  stood  for  universal  human  rights,  as  they  are  a 
fundamental part of international institutions, as well 
as  for  improving  women’s  rights,  advancing  gender 
equality  and  eliminating  gender-based  violence.  We 
have  been  committed  to  protecting  the  rights  of  the 
child, and believe that corporal punishment for children 
is unacceptable. We call on Member States to prohibit 
corporal punishment in any form.
Estonia  will  continue  to  focus  on  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples  and  their  participation  in  United 
Nations  forums.  The  importance  of  cultural  heritage 
and the respect for the fundamental right of indigenous 
peoples  to  their  traditional  lands  is  a  key  aspect  in 
that  regard.  We  are  strong  supporters  of  the  active 
participation  of  civil-society  organizations,  and  we 
value their contributions in the field of human rights. 
A  strong  democracy  should  acknowledge  the  role 
and  importance  of  civil  society  while  respecting  its 
independence and freedom.
We  are  deeply  committed  to  ensuring  human 
rights, including freedom of expression and offline and 
online opinion. We believe that freedom of expression 
and opinion are the cornerstones of democracy and an 
open society. Only democracy and the rule of law can 
guarantee those freedoms, along with the principle that 
everyone is and will be held accountable for their words 
and  actions.  Freedom  of  expression  cannot  limit  the 
right to privacy, or vice versa.
Those  freedoms  further  include  unlimited  and 
unrestricted  access  to  the  Internet.  As  one  of  the 
founding  members  of  the  Freedom  Online  Coalition, 
Estonia  will  continue  to  push  for  the  freedom  of 
expression  and  the  protection  of  human  rights  on  the 
Internet. While the need for greater cybersecurity has 
been  described  as  a  reason  for  restrictions,  Estonia 
believes  that  Internet  freedom  and  cybersecurity  are 
not mutually exclusive concepts, and security is not an 
excuse to limit the freedom of expression. We believe 
in a free and secure Internet for all.
28/30 
15-36749
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.53
In  conclusion,  Estonia  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
support for the work of the Human Rights Council and 
its mechanisms. We will continue to be committed to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  in  all 
forums.
Mr. Tesfay (Eritrea): First of all, on behalf of myself 
and the Government of Eritrea, I would like to express 
our condolences to the Governments and the people and 
families of the victims of terrorism in France and other 
countries.
My  delegation  wishes  to  welcome  the  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  takes  note  of  the 
Council’s  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/70/53). Eritrea believes, as has been stressed clearly 
and strongly on a number of occasions by the Group of 
African States, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries 
and other regional groups, that the Universal Periodic 
Review remains a valid and appropriate mechanism for 
enhancing  constructive  dialogue  and  cooperation  on 
human  rights  issues  among  Member  States.  That  tool 
should not be undermined by unnecessary parallel and 
overlapping initiatives. Article 2 of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  clearly  states  that  non-interference  in 
the internal affairs of States should also be a guiding 
principle  for  United  Nations  bodies,  including  the 
Human Rights Council. The core tenets of human rights 
values are best promoted when the Council upholds the 
principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity and 
non-selectivity,  and  those  founding  principles  should 
be respected and promoted at all times by all Member 
States.
The  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  the 
Assembly  reflects  important  work  on  issues  that  my 
delegation highly values. However, it must be pointed 
out  that  my  delegation  rejects  the  proliferation  of 
country-specific mandates. For example, renewing the 
mandates of the Special Rapporteur and the Commission 
of Inquiry on Eritrea is unwarranted and unnecessary. 
It is a politically motivated act that does not reflect the 
reality on the ground in Eritrea. It also lacks context. 
Even development programmes, such as afforestation, 
water  harvesting  and  dam  building,  as  well  as  other 
infrastructural activities that were implemented with the 
full participation of the people, have been deliberately 
presented  as  involving  slave  labour.  Contrary  to  such 
distorted assertions by the mandate-holders, there are in 
fact effective ways of mobilizing domestic resources for 
sustainable development. Eritrea should be commended 
and emulated — not intimidated and threatened — and 
its development activity must not be misrepresented.
the 
of 
its 
Despite 
occupation 
sovereign 
territory,  including  the  town  of  Badme,  and  the 
politically  motivated  unjust  sanctions  imposed  on 
it,  Eritrea  —  with  its  50  per  cent  Muslim  and  50  per 
cent  Christian  population;  its  location  along  a  major 
maritime trade route in the volatile Horn of Africa and 
Red  Sea  region;  and  its  1,200  kilometres  of  coastline 
and more than 350 islands — is fully committed to, and 
engaged  in,  advancing  and  realizing  the  hard-fought 
social,  cultural,  economic  and  political  aspirations  of 
its people. It is therefore appropriate to mention a few 
of its human rights agenda issues and achievements.
The political, social and economic rights of women 
are fully respected under the law. They have equal rights 
to own property, they are paid equally for equal work, 
and  female  genital  mutilation  has  been  criminalized. 
Under the motto, “Education for All”, education is free 
from kindergarten to the tertiary level. At the tertiary 
and vocational levels, students are provided with free 
food and lodging.
In 
the  health  sector,  Eritrea  has  achieved 
Millennium  Development  Goals  4,  5  and  6  and  has 
established  a  solid  basis  for  transitioning  to  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
Eritrea  has  also  been  declared,  by  the  World  Health 
Organization, to be a polio- and measles-free country.
The  establishment  of  a  Special  Rapporteur  and  a 
Commission  of  Inquiry  on  the  same  issue  and  on  the 
same country, in this case Eritrea, is not only redundant, 
it  is  also  a  waste  of  time  and  resources  that  cannot 
be  justified  or  rationalized.  It  must  be  terminated.  It 
must be underlined that the Special Rapporteur is also 
a  member  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry.  That  fund 
could be reallocated to the Office of the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  enhance  its 
technical  cooperation  with  Member  States.  Eritrea’s 
humble recommendation is consistent with the appeal of 
the High Commissioner to Member States to strengthen 
the regular budget of the human rights body.
For the Human Rights Council to base its actions 
on a report presented to it by two or three individuals 
who  collected  information  from  faceless,  nameless 
sources is not only procedurally wrong, it is a travesty 
of  justice  as  well.  It  must  be  rejected.  The  Council 
should not allow itself to be politically manipulated and 
15-36749
29/30
A/70/PV.53 
16/11/2015
used  by  any  group  or  member  country,  big  or  small, 
rich or poor. The Council’s main objective should be to 
promote  human  rights  standards  through  constructive 
engagement and dialogue. It should not be used as an 
instrument  within  a  certain  country’s  sinister  agenda 
that  has  little  value  in  improving  the  human  rights 
situation of any given country.
The Council must also provide an opportunity for 
the  party  concerned  and  accused  to  defend  itself  and 
explain the human rights situation in the country. The 
dictum that one is innocent until proven guilty must be 
respected by all Member States, including the Council.
I  wish  to  appeal  to  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council to guide Council members to thoroughly 
interrogate any justifiably established mandate-holders 
and  deal  only  with  issues  that  are  verifiable  and 
collected from credible sources. Sweeping allegations 
and  sensational  sound  bites  must  be  avoided  and 
challenged.
In  conclusion,  we  ought  to  remind  ourselves 
that,  not  long  ago,  we  witnessed  the  termination  of 
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  when  some  of 
its  members  used  it  as  a  political  tool  for  threats  and 
intimidation,  mostly  against  developing  countries. 
Once  again,  I  appeal  to  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council to exercise maximum vigilance in order 
to maintain the integrity of the Council.
Nobody  can  tell,  nor  has  the  right  to  tell,  the 
Eritrean or other people what to be or not to be in their 
country, and what to do or not to do. The people, and 
only the people, of Eritrea are the determiners of their 
destiny.  What  the  Eritrean  people  need  is  solidarity, 
cooperation and engagement, not conditionality, threats 
and intimidation. We must also not forget that the right 
to  development  is  also  a  human  rights  issue.  Let  us 
practice what we preach — nobody must be left behind.
The  Eritrean  Government  once  again  reaffirms 
its commitment to the attainment of improved human 
rights standards in order to guarantee the full enjoyment 
of such rights by the people of Eritrea.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
30/30 
15-36749
