United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
32nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 14 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.32
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Abdrakhmanov 
(Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 109 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/70/1)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 
the  Secretary-General  presented  his  annual  report, 
contained in document A/70/1, to the General Assembly 
at its 13th plenary meeting, on 28 September. I would 
like  to  make  a  few  preliminary  remarks  in  order  to 
introduce the report.
The Secretary-General presented his report prior to 
the start of the general debate, which we all attended 
some weeks ago. In his introduction to the report, the 
Secretary-General highlighted many of the overarching 
challenges  and  concerns  that  confront  the  United 
Nations  in  its  seventieth  year.  The  report  speaks  to 
many  of  the  points  that  Member  States  subsequently 
raised  during  the  general  debate.  It  is  clear  that  its 
themes resonate with Member States and will continue 
to dominate our work during the seventieth session. 
The  report  covers  the  eight  priority  areas  agreed 
on by the Committee for Programme and Coordination, 
and I would like to briefly highlight the key themes in 
each area.
In the area of sustainable development, the report 
includes  a  reminder  of  the  gaps  in  and  lessons  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  as  we  embark  on  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1),  and  a  clear  call  for  a  meaningful,  universal 
climate agreement. 
The  report  presents  a  sobering  picture  where 
peace and security are concerned, noting that we face 
increasingly complex and interconnected threats. 
The  narrative  on  Africa  is  positive,  noting  the 
significant  strides  that  the  continent  has  made  in 
development during the past year.
In  the  area  of  human  rights,  the  report  flags  the 
exposure of millions of innocent people to gross risks 
and  violations,  including  the  worst  displacement  of 
persons — we are talking about 51 million people — seen 
since  the  Second  World  War,  and  reminds  us  of  the 
priority  the  Secretary-General  gives  to  the  Human 
Rights Up Front initiative. 
With  regard 
to  humanitarian  assistance, 
the 
report laments that this year we hit several deplorable 
humanitarian  benchmarks,  including  the  figure  of 
more  than  76  million  people  in  need  of  humanitarian 
assistance, and calls on us not just to meet humanitarian 
needs but to reduce them.
The report reminds us of the importance of the rule 
of law at the national and international levels. 
As  for  disarmament,  the  report  shows  a  mixed 
picture,  with  multilateral  disarmament 
forums 
struggling  to  deliver  results.  In  that  regard,  we  all 
remember this year’s Review Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-31290 (E)
*1531290*
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
Weapons.  However,  we  also  witnessed  a  welcome 
agreement on Iran’s nuclear capacity and the entry into 
force of the Arms Trade Treaty.
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
President of the General Assembly, on 29 September on 
the sidelines of the general debate. 
The report acknowledges the spread of international 
terrorism and the related problems of drug trafficking 
and organized crime, owing to a continuing failure to 
resolve  the  underlying  conflicts  and  conditions  that 
give rise to violent extremism, as well as to the limits 
of conventional approaches to such problems.
Finally,  the  report  includes  an  update  on  steps 
being  taken  to  strengthen  the  Organization  in  order 
to  adapt  it  to  new  needs  and  realities,  including  the 
implementation  of  the  International  Public  Sector 
Accounting Standards and Umoja, as well as a decision 
to further consider internally how best to achieve the 
objectives for which partnerships are proposed.
The  report  concludes  that  on  the  occasion  of  its 
seventieth  anniversary,  the  United  Nations  is  needed 
more  than  ever  before,  and  that  will  require  an 
unprecedented  spirit  of  cooperation  among  Member 
States.  The  Secretary-General  stands  ready  to  do  his 
part and looks forward to hearing the views of Member 
States during our debate.
Mr.  Ibrahim  (Malaysia):  I  have  the  honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  10  States 
members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN):  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Myanmar,  the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my 
own country, Malaysia.
At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization,  contained 
It 
provides  a  comprehensive  and  detailed  overview  of 
the activities of the Organization, its achievements and 
challenges, across a wide spectrum of issues relating to 
the common interests and concerns of all humankind.
in  document  A/70/1. 
The  ASEAN  Charter  has  a  provision  expressing 
the Association’s commitment to upholding the Charter 
of the United Nations and international law. Therefore 
ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  and  greatly  values  its  cooperation 
with  the  Organization.  The  Joint  Declaration  on 
Comprehensive  Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the 
United  Nations,  adopted  in  2011,  is  a  clear  reflection 
of  our  commitment  to  strengthening  our  cooperation. 
In that context, we welcome the success of the annual 
meeting  of  the  ASEAN  Foreign  Ministers  with  the 
ASEAN looks forward to welcoming the Secretary-
General  at  the  upcoming  seventh  ASEAN-United 
Nations Summit, to be held on 22 November in Kuala 
Lumpur, with the goal of further strengthening relations 
between the organizations and exploring other areas of 
cooperation. We view the Summit as an effective policy 
tool  and  another  opportunity  to  give  policy  guidance 
for strengthening our partnership.
In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  highlights 
the substantial progress that has been made overall on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  while  stressing 
the  importance  of  moving  forward  with  the  universal 
implementation  of  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  as  well  as  the  urgent 
need for taking timely action on climate change.
The  start  of  the  seventieth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly is the precursor to a more challenging process. 
ASEAN is encouraged that the aforementioned ASEAN 
Foreign Ministers’ meeting recognized the importance 
of  the  implementation  of  the  ASEAN  community’s 
post-2015 vision alongside that of the 2030 Agenda. We 
share  the  view  that  the  two  agendas  will  complement 
each other, particularly in the areas of reducing poverty 
and  hunger, 
inequalities  and  promoting 
women’s empowerment, fostering sustainable economic 
growth  and  equitable  social  development,  protecting 
the  environment,  ensuring  access  to  clean  water  and 
air,  minimizing  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change 
and  building  effective  institutions  aimed  at  achieving 
sustainable  and  inclusive  development,  as  well  as 
in  enhancing  the  collaboration  between  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  with  ASEAN’s 
various mechanisms and institutions.
tackling 
There  is  no  doubt  that  climate  change,  as  the 
Secretary-General  points  out,  is  one  of  the  greatest 
threats  we  have  to  a  sustainable  future.  ASEAN  is 
also working hard to address that challenge, including 
by  strengthening  its  community’s  resilience  through 
effective 
its  Climate  Change 
Initiative and Action Plan on a Joint Response to Climate 
Change.  We  hope  that  the  upcoming  Climate  Change 
Conference, to be held in Paris between 30 November 
and  11  December,  will  produce  a  comprehensive  and 
universal agreement on climate change under the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
implementation  of 
2/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
In  the  area  of  human  rights,  ASEAN  has  made 
rapid progress with its institutional development since 
its  Charter  entered  into  force.  Highlights  include  the 
2012  adoption  of  ASEAN’s  milestone  Human  Rights 
Declaration and its 2013 Declaration on the Elimination 
of  Violence  Against  Women  and  Children,  following 
the  establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Intergovernmental 
Commission  on  Human  Rights 
and 
Commission  on  the  Promotion  and  Protection  of  the 
Rights of Women and Children.
(AICHR) 
The  AICHR  conducts  various  programmes  and 
activities in consultation and cooperation with ASEAN 
sectoral bodies, together with the relevant institutions 
and  external  partners  concerned.  The  AICHR  has 
launched  various  initiatives  to  promote  awareness  of 
human  rights  in  2015.  Among  them  are  the  AICHR 
Training  of  the  Trainers  for  Journalists  in  ASEAN 
Member  States,  held  in  Thailand;  the  AICHR  Youth 
Debates  on  Human  Rights,  held  in  Singapore;  the 
Regional Workshop on the Role of Youth in Promoting 
Human Rights in ASEAN, to be held in Malaysia; the 
AICHR  Workshop  on  the  Implementation  of  Human 
Rights  Obligations  Relating  to  the  Environment  and 
Climate  Change,  held  in  Myanmar;  and  the  AICHR 
Workshop  on  the  Development  of  ASEAN  Legal 
Instruments on Human Rights, held in the Philippines.
Concerning peace and stability, ASEAN also strives 
to  maintain  and  promote  the  Association  as  a  flag-
bearer for regional norms of good conduct, particularly 
through  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Cooperation  in 
Southeast  Asia.  The  Treaty  is  regarded  as  the  key 
code  of  conduct  governing  inter-State  relations  in 
South-East  Asia,  and  it  provides  the  foundations  for 
the  maintenance  of  regional  peace  and  stability.  We 
welcome  the  growing  interest  of  some  non-ASEAN 
States in acceding to the Treaty.
in 
Furthermore,  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance 
to  strengthening  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  regime  in  order  to  maintain  peace, 
security  and  prosperity 
the  region.  We  are 
committed to preserving South-East Asia as a nuclear-
weapon-free zone and free of all other weapons of mass 
destruction,  as  enshrined  in  the  ASEAN  Charter.  In 
that  regard,  ASEAN  is  committed  to  working  closely 
with  the  nuclear-weapon  States  on  their  early  signing 
and  ratification  of  the  Protocol  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
South-East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone,  without 
reservations. To that end, ASEAN encourages the full 
support of United Nations Member States, particularly 
the  nuclear-weapon  States,  for  the  ASEAN-sponsored 
biennial resolutions on the Treaty during the seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
On  counter-terrorism,  ASEAN  shares  the  deep 
concerns  over 
the  rising  violence  and  brutality 
committed  by  terrorist  and  extremist  organizations 
and radical groups in Yemen, Iraq and Syria. ASEAN 
denounces  all  acts  of  destruction,  violence  and 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  Along 
those lines, ASEAN adopted the Langkawi Declaration 
on  the  Global  Movement  of  Moderates  at  the  twenty-
sixth  ASEAN  Summit,  held  in  April,  which  outlines 
measures  to  promote  moderation  and  curb  extremism 
throughout the region.
This year, under Malaysia’s chairmanship and the 
theme  “Our  People,  Our  Community,  Our  Vision”, 
we are striving to make ASEAN people-centred. That 
means  good  governance,  higher  standards  of  living, 
sustainable development, the empowerment of women 
and greater opportunity for all people, in the spirit of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We 
believe  that  the  collective  efforts  of  ASEAN  at  the 
regional level will contribute to the work of the United 
Nations  in  promoting  peace,  security  and  stability  as 
well as to inclusive and sustainable growth for all.
I wish to conclude by reiterating ASEAN’s resolve 
to  strengthen  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in 
the areas of mutual interest.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/70/1).
the  report  of 
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  founding  of  the  United  Nations.  Over  the  past 
70 years, the United Nations has borne witness to the 
endeavours  of  Member  States  to  explore  and  put  into 
practice various ways of maintaining peace, promoting 
development  and  seeking  cooperation.  Reviewing  the 
journey the United Nations has taken, we are extremely 
proud  of  its  achievements.  Looking  forward,  we  are 
fully  confident  of  the  ability  of  the  Organization  to 
launch a new era of cooperation.
advanced  multilateral 
Over  the  past  year,  the  United  Nations  has 
proactively 
cooperation 
and  formulated  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) with a view to promoting 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development.  It  has 
15-31290
3/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
worked to find solutions so as to reach hotspot issues 
through  diplomatic  negotiations  and  made  efforts  in 
both  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  It  has  actively 
coordinated humanitarian assistance and appropriately 
addressed the Ebola outbreak. It advanced the cause of 
disarmament in a comprehensive manner and facilitated 
the  development  of  synergy  in  the  international  fight 
against  terrorism.  China  wishes  to  thank  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  the  Secretariat  as  a  whole 
for all their efforts.
face  daunting 
The  world  we  currently  live  in  is  far  from 
tranquil,  with  ongoing  regional  conflicts,  local  wars 
and  numerous  difficulties  on  the  path  towards  global 
development.  The  international  community  continues 
to 
traditional  and  non-traditional 
challenges. In this especially significant year, we need 
to  reflect  on  how  to  better  address  the  major  issues 
of peace and development in the twenty-first century, 
including  how  to  promote  the  economic  and  social 
development  of  peoples  throughout  the  world  and 
advance  our  common  values  of  peace,  development, 
equity and justice.
During  his  attendance  at  various  summits  in  the 
context  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  Mr.  Xi  Jinping,  gave  an  in-depth  account  of 
China’s  policy  view  on  the  international  order  and 
issues concerning the future and destiny of humankind, 
as well as a comprehensive elaboration on the idea for 
a  new  type  of  international  relations  with  win-win 
cooperation at its centre.
justice, 
He  proposed  the  establishment  of  a  partnership 
in  which  countries 
treat  each  other  as  equals; 
engage  in  mutual  consultations;  demonstrate  mutual 
understanding;  create  a  security  architecture  that 
stresses  fairness, 
joint  contributions  and 
shared benefits; seek inclusive and mutually beneficial 
development characterized by openness and innovation; 
carry  out  intercivilizational  exchanges  to  promote 
harmony,  inclusiveness  and  respect  for  differences; 
and  construct  ecological  systems  that  respect  nature 
and favour green development. Based on these points, 
we can draw up a blueprint and road map for building 
a  community  for  the  common  destiny  of  humankind. 
Those ideas preserve and further develop the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
provide new thinking and a new vision for the future 
work of the Organization.
In the political and security sphere, China believes 
that  all  countries  should  have  a  role  in  determining 
the  future  of  the  world,  and  that  the  principle  of 
sovereignty  should  be  respected  and  implemented. 
Disputes  should  be  settled  through  dialogue  and 
differences  bridged  through  consultations.  We  must 
adhere  to  multilateralism  and  approach  the  idea  of 
win-win  cooperation  and  winning  for  all.  China  has 
also proposed an important initiative for strengthening 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and 
offered  China’s  programmes  as  contributions  to  the 
United Nations work in the area of peace and security.
In  the  area  of  development,  China  advocates 
a 
development 
openness, 
comprehensiveness and innovation at its core. We have 
put forward four policy proposals for building countries’ 
development  capacities,  improving  the  international 
development  environment,  optimizing  development 
partnerships  and  boosting  development  coordination 
mechanisms, which also represent China’s philosophy 
for its own development and reform.
concept 
of 
equity, 
We  have  expressed  our  views  on  the  direction  of 
climate change negotiations and introduced our specific 
measures to conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. That will facilitate the integration of China’s 
development with that of the world, thereby providing 
new thinking and injecting new vitality into the efforts 
of the United Nations to promote global development.
With regard to women’s empowerment, China has 
put forward four ideas to promote gender equality and 
women’s  all-around  development:  advancing  women’s 
development  in  parallel  with  economic  and  social 
development,  actively  safeguarding  women’s  rights 
and  interests,  working  to  foster  a  harmonious  and 
socially inclusive culture, and creating an international 
environment  favourable  to  women’s  development.  At 
the  joint  initiative  of  the  United  Nations  and  China, 
those commitments were made for the first time at the 
level of State leaders, which is of historic significance.
China has announced a series of major initiatives to 
support the work of the United Nations and advance the 
cause of global peace and development. China will join the 
new United Nations peacekeeping standby mechanism 
and has established standing formed police units and an 
8,000-strong  standby  peacekeeping  contingent.  China 
will set up a South-South cooperation assistance fund 
with  an  initial  funding  level  of  $2  billion  to  support 
developing countries in implementing the 2030 Agenda 
4/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
for  Sustainable  Development.  China  will  donate 
$10  million  to  UN-Women  to  implement  100  mother-
and-child health projects in developing countries over 
the next five years. China has also decided to establish 
a 10-year, $1 billion China-United Nations development 
fund. All these initiatives demonstrate China’s sense of 
responsibility for multilateral cooperation.
The outcomes of the United Nations summits have 
set  out  the  direction  for  our  efforts  to  build  a  better 
tomorrow and for the future of the world and the United 
Nations. China is ready to work with all Member States 
to  turn  the  outcomes  of  the  summits  into  concrete 
action and to jointly strive for a bright future in which 
all people will be free from want and enjoy development 
and dignity.
China believes that in the area of peace and security, 
the  United  Nations  should,  during  the  Assembly’s 
seventieth session, resolutely uphold the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, respect 
the choices made by countries themselves concerning 
their  development  path  and  social  system,  persist 
in  seeking  the  settlement  of  inter-State  disputes  by 
peaceful  means  through  dialogue  and  consultations, 
and strive for progress in addressing regional hotspot 
issues, such as the Middle East.
In  the  area  of  development,  the  United  Nations 
should seize this historic opportunity to advance global 
development.  It  should  focus  on  the  follow-up  to  the 
2030  Agenda,  adhere  to  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities, and push for coordinated 
development in the economic, social and environmental 
spheres in an effort to narrow the gap between North 
and  South  so  that  all  countries  can  embark  on  the 
path  towards  equitable,  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development.
As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council 
and the world’s largest developing country, China has 
always considered the maintenance of world peace, the 
promotion of global development and the safeguarding 
of the world order to be its duties. For years, China has 
actively  contributed  Chinese  wisdom,  Chinese  ideas 
and Chinese proposals to the international community, 
thereby contributing to the work of the United Nations. 
We  are  willing  to  work  with  other  Member  States  to 
uphold and develop the purposes and principles of the 
Charter, build a new type of international relationship 
with  win-win  cooperation  at  its  centre,  and  create  a 
community  of  the  common  destiny  of  humankind, 
thereby making further and greater contributions to the 
continuing advance of the cause of peace, development 
and progress.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): We appreciate the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/70/1),  which  presents  a  substantive  assessment  of 
the activities of the United Nations over the past year 
and contains many reflections that we need to heed.
The  world  has  been  transformed  fundamentally 
since  the  United  Nations  was  created  70  years  ago. 
Geopolitics  has  changed;  the  nature  of  conflict  has 
changed; and so have the demands of peacekeeping. The 
development  challenges  of  our  time  are  qualitatively 
different, while environmental threats have escalated to 
an unprecedented level. A review of the Organization, 
both  in  the  way  it  is  structured  and  in  the  way  it 
operates, was therefore much needed.
represented  by 
On  development,  Member  States  have,  over  the 
past  few  years,  jointly  reviewed  the  achievements 
and  failures  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). Lessons learned have informed the paradigm 
shift 
the  post-2015  development 
Agenda.  In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  has 
acknowledged progress on the MDGs, while identifying 
the  significant  gaps  that  have  remained.  Advances  in 
many  areas  have  bypassed  the  poor;  sometimes  they 
have  even  exacerbated  inequities.  Having  collectively 
committed  ourselves  at  last  month’s  historic  summit 
to  achieving  a  series  of  specific  goals  to  promote 
equitable and inclusive development, focused action is 
now  needed  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. The challenge ahead is to summon and mobilize 
the collective political will and resources to ensure the 
comprehensive implementation of those Goals.
In  the  realm  of  peace  and  security,  reviews  of 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding are being undertaken 
in the same spirit of introspection. That is necessary in 
a world that is in increasing turmoil. Peacekeeping has 
to respond to that and also adapt to the changing nature 
of conflict.
Pakistan  believes  that  reform  of  the  Organization 
is  necessary  to  reflect  the  dynamics  and  demands  of 
the  twenty-first  century  and  to  respond  effectively  to 
the  current  and  emerging  challenges  that  confront  us 
all.  Pakistan  supports  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United  Nations,  including  of  the  Security  Council, 
but  such  reform  must  make  the  Security  Council 
more  democratic,  representative,  accountable  and 
transparent.  As  Prime  Minister  Nawaz  Sharif  said 
15-31290
5/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
during the general debate: “We need a Security Council 
that ... reflects the interests of all Member States ... not 
an expanded club of the powerful and the privileged.” 
(A/70/PV.19, p. 40)
that  effort  has  since  stalled.  We  stand  ready  to  help 
revive  that  process  when  requested  to  do  so,  and  are 
encouraged that the international community wants to 
see a resumption of the peace process in Afghanistan.
The primary purpose for the creation of the United 
Nations  was  to  save  future  generations  from  the 
scourge of war. Yet today we find a world under strain, 
with peace elusive in many regions and security threats 
magnifying or escalating in other parts. Confrontation 
has  returned  between  major  Powers  in  Europe  and 
threatens  to  engulf  Asia.  Large  parts  of  the  Middle 
East  are  in  flames.  Terrorism  is  spreading.  Violent 
extremism  is  on  the  rise.  Indeed,  the  Middle  East  is 
confronted with unprecedented security challenges as 
an increasing number of countries are being sucked into 
the  vortex  of  conflict  and  instability.  Massive  human 
dislocation  and  a  growing  refugee  crisis  threaten  the 
stability of many parts of the world.
Dealing  with  all  those  threats  and  challenges 
requires  new  and  collective  thinking,  as  well  as 
collaborative  action  at  the  regional  and  global  levels. 
Meanwhile, the long-standing tragedy of Palestine has 
intensified.  The  intransigent  stance  of  the  occupying 
Power has dimmed any chances of progress towards the 
widely  accepted  avenue  for  peace  between  Palestine 
and Israel, namely, a two-State solution.
In our ongoing battle against terrorism, Pakistan’s 
commitment to eliminating that scourge is unwavering. 
We  have  lost  tens  of  thousands  of  lives  to  terrorism, 
but the blood that has been shed, including that of our 
innocent  children,  has  only  reinforced  our  resolve 
and  our  commitment  to  continuing  the  fight  until  the 
last terrorist is eliminated from our country. Pakistan 
has  adopted  a  multi-pronged  strategy  that  envisages 
a  comprehensive  national  action  plan  and  a  military-
led  law  enforcement  operation  called  Zarb-e-Azb 
to  fight  against  terrorists.  Zarb-e-Azb  is  the  largest 
anti-terrorism campaign against terrorists anywhere in 
the world and has already made substantial progress in 
cleansing my country of terrorism.
to 
engagement 
In  our  neighbourhood,  we  seek  constructive 
diplomatic 
resolve  differences, 
promote stability and foster economic cooperation and 
connectivity. Pakistan remains committed to promoting 
peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  We  believe  that  a 
peace  process  aimed  at  intra-Afghan  reconciliation 
is  the  only  viable  way  to  bring  a  political  end  to  the 
long-running  conflict  there.  A  promising  start  was 
made in initiating such a process two months ago, but 
In  South  Asia,  long-standing  disputes  have  to  be 
addressed boldly and decisively if enduring peace and 
stability are to be established. The unresolved Jammu 
and Kashmir dispute remains the root cause of tensions 
and  instability  in  our  region.  For  over  half  a  century, 
that dispute has remained unresolved. United Nations 
resolutions pledging a plebiscite to allow the Kashmiri 
people to exercise their right to self-determination have 
not been implemented. Instead, the people of Kashmir 
have suffered brutal oppression.
The  urgency  of  peacefully  settling  the  dispute 
is  even  more  compelling  today.  Consultations  with 
Kashmiris,  who  are  an  integral  part  of  the  dispute, 
are  essential  to  evolving  such  a  peaceful  solution. 
Calling  for  the  termination  of  those  consultations  as 
a  precondition  for  dialogue  is  unacceptable  as  well 
as counterproductive. Escalating tensions on the Line 
of  Control  in  Kashmir  and  the  working  boundary 
also  require  Pakistan  and  India  to  take  all  possible 
measures to avert further escalation. It was against that 
backdrop that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif announced 
a  four-point  peace  initiative  in  the  General  Assembly 
on  30  September.  That  should  have  evoked  a  positive 
response  from  India,  but  so  far  that  has  not  been 
forthcoming. Nevertheless, my country stands ready to 
engage in a dialogue on all outstanding issues.
The  world  certainly  faces  many  complex  and 
daunting  challenges,  but  today  an  interdependent  and 
interconnected  world  also  possesses  the  capabilities 
and means to meet those challenges. We are confident 
that  through  cooperative  endeavours  we  can  turn  our 
shared  aspirations  for  peace  and  progress  for  all  our 
peoples into concrete actions and into reality.
Mr. Laassel (Morocco) (spoke in French): I would 
like  at  the  outset  to  offer  the  congratulations  of  the 
Kingdom of Morocco to Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his 
accession  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
and to assure him of our full support as he conducts our 
work in the year ahead.
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Organization  (A/70/1),  which  outlines  the  very 
important and rapid changes that have occurred, from 
rising inequalities among peoples and violence against 
6/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
women  and  girls  to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change, armed conflicts and terrorism.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations, my delegation welcomes the fact that 
the  eradication  of  poverty  has  been  identified  as  the 
main  objective  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  that  the  three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development  are  reflected 
in  a  balanced  way.  My  delegation  also  welcomes 
the  inclusion  of  economic  objectives  with  respect 
to  achieving  sustainable  and  shared  growth  and  the 
promotion  of 
industrialization, 
which represent a significant step forward with respect 
to the Millennium Development Goals.
infrastructure  and 
are 
increasingly 
interdependent, 
Since  we  are  living  in  a  globalized  world  where 
actors 
global 
partnership for development and the means to attain the 
Sustainable Development Goals are critical to ensuring 
economic, social and political stability throughout the 
world. It would also be wise for that global partnership 
to  give  greater  consideration  to  Africa,  which  should 
remain the centre of concern. Our continent, which has 
indeed made remarkable progress towards stabilization, 
still  faces  a  combination  of  growing  security  threats. 
Peace  and  development  there  continue  to  face  many 
problems  and  challenges  that  urgently  require  a 
collective national, regional and international response.
Transnational  organized  crime,  food  insecurity, 
the  radicalization  of  young  people,  the  outbreak  of 
pandemics  and  the  exacerbation  of  terrorism  and 
violent extremism are mutually reinforcing scourges in 
a context of fragile State institutions and unstructured 
societies. As stressed in the message that His Majesty 
the  King  sent  to  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,
“Africa  must  be  at  the  heart  of  international 
development  cooperation  in  order  to  help  the 
continent  free  itself  from  its  colonial  past  and 
unlock  its  potential.  Morocco  therefore  calls  on 
the United Nations and regional and international 
financial  institutions  to  draft  an  action  plan  for 
the  economic  transformation  of  Africa  and  the 
provision of steady resources for its financing ... We 
call for peace and stability to be made top priorities 
in  order  to  prevent  conflicts,  tackle  extremism 
and  terrorism,  and  resolve  the  migration  problem 
through  an  approach  that  takes  into  account  the 
dignity  of  migrants,  preserves  their  basic  rights, 
and addresses the root causes of this phenomenon.” 
(A/70/PV.21, p. 11)
Recognizing  that  no  State  alone  can  successfully 
combat the threats to stability in Africa, the Kingdom of 
Morocco has consistently proclaimed loudly and clearly 
that  no  one  can  defeat  such  threats  without  expanded 
regional  cooperation  and  coordination,  political  will 
and more effective, concrete and active solidarity. . The 
United Nations system will always find in the Kingdom 
of  Morocco  a  committed  and  tirelessly  determined 
partner  in  supporting  all  constructive  initiatives  or 
actions on behalf of Africa.
With regard to question of peace and security, my 
delegation fully shares the sincere concerns expressed 
by the Secretary-General in his report with regard to the 
threats that continue to weigh on those matters due to 
the new conflicts emerging every day and the new forms 
of violence afflicting several countries, particularly in 
Africa and the Middle East. My delegation calls on the 
international community to invest more in efforts aimed 
at  resolving  disputes  that  poison  the  relations  among 
neighbouring  States  and  undermine  their  economic 
integration,  in  particular  on  the  African  continent. 
Similarly,  the  proliferation  of  terrorism  is  a  great 
source of concern for the international community and 
requires shared efforts to thwart it.
the  meeting  convened  by 
Thus,  in  the  context  of  its  ongoing  commitment 
to  strengthening  global  action  to  fight  terrorism,  in 
particular violent extremism, the Kingdom of Morocco 
has  consistently  shared  its  know-how  and  experience 
acquired  in  that  area  by  actively  contributing  to 
strengthening  bilateral,  regional  and 
international 
cooperation.  At 
the 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  on  30  September  2014, 
Morocco’s  experience  in  combating  radicalism  and 
violent extremism was shared by high-level Moroccan 
officials  and  friendly  countries  that  had  benefitted 
from Moroccan cooperation in that area. That meeting 
enabled us to highlight His Majesty the King’s decision 
to train imams and preachers from a number of African 
countries in the Muslim religion’s precepts of tolerance, 
moderation and respect for others.
Regarding  the  fight  against  climate  change,  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  been  working  to  develop 
a  national  policy  on  environmental  issues.  That  has 
resulted  in  our  adoption  of  a  national  environmental 
charter, the launch of a green plan for Morocco and the 
start of construction on an ambitious solar and wind-
15-31290
7/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
turbine renewable energy programme designed to meet 
42  per  cent  of  the  country’s  energy  needs  by  2020.  I 
should  note  here  that  in  Marrakesh  in  2016,  Morocco 
will host the twenty-second session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  which  has  always 
subscribed to efforts based on dialogue and consultation, 
is making a substantial contribution to initiatives aimed 
at the peaceful settlement of conflicts. My delegation 
calls  for  an  end  to  the  violence  in  Syria  and  Libya 
and  hopes  that  a  political  transition  in  line  with  their 
peoples’  aspirations  can  ensure  territorial  integrity, 
national  unity  and  stability  throughout  the  region. 
Morocco also calls for the mobilization of international 
support  for  a  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question  and 
the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State 
living side by side in peace and security with Israel.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that Morocco 
remains committed and ready to work with all Member 
States in order to build a strong United Nations, capable 
of executing the difficult tasks it is burdened with and 
the multiple challenges it has to face. We must all work 
tirelessly, collectively and in a coordinated fashion in 
order to make it an effective instrument for achieving 
peace and security and spreading the values of tolerance 
and coexistence in the service of all humankind.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/70/1).  We  are  fortunate  that  today’s 
meeting  is  taking  place  shortly  after  the  high-level 
general  debate,  during  which  our  leaders  addressed 
the General Assembly. We therefore have not only the 
report’s perspective but also our leaders’ views to guide 
us in our meeting today.
Before  going  into  some  aspects  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  it  is  worth  noting  that  in  paragraph 
4  it  itemizes  as  many  as  13  specific  areas  of  conflict 
or crisis that currently scar the international landscape, 
along  with  emerging  new 
terrorist 
groups  pose  to  international  peace  and  security.  The 
cumulative impact of those conflicts and crises is being 
felt  by  almost  60  million  people  —  innocent  men, 
women and children. Yet section B of chapter II of the 
report is strangely silent on why the Security Council, 
which  is  serviced  by  the  Secretariat  and  has  primary 
responsibility under the Charter of the United Nations 
threats 
that 
for the maintenance of international peace and security, 
has allowed so many crises to mushroom.
My delegation has repeatedly stated at the highest 
level  that  the  Security  Council’s  ineffectiveness  is 
due  to  its  unrepresentative  composition,  particularly 
its  permanent  membership.  We  were  all  party  to  our 
leaders’ unanimous decision at the 2005 World Summit 
to work for speedy reform of the Council to make it fit 
for purpose. Paragraph 102 of the report tries to reflect 
the  significant  progress  we  made  in  the  Assembly 
on  14  September  (see  A/69/PV.104)  but  buries  this  in 
business-as-usual statistics.
The context for our deep concern about the steady 
erosion of international peace and security is our leaders’ 
recent  adoption  of  the  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). The report 
gives  many  details  about  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  their  integration 
into the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which 
are at the heart of the 2030 Agenda. We have expressed 
our support for the Secretary-General’s vision in those 
parts  of  the  report,  including  in  the  area  of  climate 
change.  For  many  of  the  SDGs  we  have  just  adopted, 
India  has  announced  national  development  initiatives 
with specific time frames for implementation.
We would like our national effort, involving almost 
one  sixth  of  humankind,  to  help  to  accelerate  and 
lead the way to achievement of the 2030 Agenda in a 
substantive  manner.  However,  we  are  also  cognizant 
of  the  importance  of  the  ways  in  which  a  supportive 
and  stable  political  environment  is  linked  to  and 
impacts  successful  implementation  of  the  Agenda.  It 
is  self  evident  that  political  instability  is  an  obstacle 
to the flow of investments, technology and trade, and 
consequently it severely restricts prospects for sustained 
socioeconomic  growth.  In  a  globalized  world,  our 
overarching  objective  of  eradicating  poverty  by  2030 
will be jeopardized unless we adopt a holistic approach.
We  would  like  to  touch  on  three  issues  covered 
in  the  report.  The  first  is  United  Nations  peace 
operations.  The  report  provides  a  detailed  account  of 
the Security Council’s efforts to draw up mandates for 
both peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations. The 
two have been synergized in the public mind through 
the Secretary-General’s appointment of the High-level 
Independent Panel on Peace Operations. We endorsed 
the  Panel’s  recommendations  (see  A/70/95)  in  the 
General Assembly and look forward to contributing to 
8/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
their implementation during this session, especially in 
the  Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations. 
In  order  to  implement  the  Panel’s  recommendations, 
India  has  committed  significant  additional  resources, 
including  an  increase  of  10  per  cent  to  our  existing 
contribution of almost 8,000 troops and the provision of 
additional female peacekeepers, highly skilled enablers 
and  facilities  for  training  peacekeepers  from  other 
Member States.
The  second  issue  is  terrorism,  and  it  is  one  on 
which  the  United  Nations  has  appeared  ineffective, 
although  both  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly have adopted resolutions, sanctions regimes 
and  strategies  to  counter  terrorism  over  the  past 
15 years. As far as the Organization itself is concerned, 
we note that as many as 31 entities within the United 
Nations deal with some aspect of countering terrorism. 
Agreement  on  a  coordinator  for  these  entities’  work 
is  a  priority  that  we  cannot  postpone.  Our  public 
consciousness  is  being  ravaged  daily  by  incessant 
acts  of 
innocent  people,  our 
civilizations’ heritage and, increasingly, our societies’ 
socioeconomic infrastructure, especially in vulnerable 
developing  countries.  We  look  forward  to  the  launch 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  on  countering 
terrorism,  mentioned  in  paragraph  96  of  the  report, 
during  this  session  of  the  Assembly.  We  hope  it  will 
include a road map to help us to adopt the long-pending 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism, 
at the heart of which is the legal principle of “prosecute 
or extradite”.
terrorism 
targeting 
The third issue that we would like to comment on 
is reflected in section C of the report, on Africa. India 
is  organizing  the  third  India-Africa  Forum  Summit, 
starting  on  26  October,  with  plans  for  all  54  African 
countries  to  participate.  It  will  be  the  single  biggest 
diplomatic  event  held  in  India  since  1983.  We  aim 
to  build  on  the  bonds  of  our  traditional  political  and 
socioeconomic relations with Africa and take advantage 
of new technologies that can enable us to accelerate our 
efforts to achieve our shared development aspirations. 
The success of the Pan-African E-network project, with 
a  focus  on  telemedicine  and  tele-education,  is  a  good 
example  of  how  we  can  contribute,  as  a  responsible 
Member  State,  to  our  Organization’s  commitment  to 
Africa’s rapid development.
India has steadily increased its active participation 
in  issues  on  the  Organization’s  humanitarian  agenda 
in  order  to  become  a  reliable  early  responder  to 
humanitarian crises. During the past year, in response 
to the Secretary-General’s appeal, we were the biggest 
financial  contributor  among  developing  countries  to 
the  Ebola  trust  fund.  Similarly,  at  the  international 
donor conference in Kathmandu, we made significant 
contributions  to  the  early  relief  and  rehabilitation  of 
the thousands of victims of the devastating earthquake 
in  Nepal.  We  have  contributed  quickly  to  relief  for 
devastation caused by cyclones and storms in both the 
Pacific  and  the  Caribbean.  Through  our  participation 
in  South-South  cooperation  structures  such  as  the 
India  Brazil  South  Africa  Fund,  we  have  shared  our 
development  experience  with  our  partners  in  the 
developing  world,  without  making  the  partnership 
conditional or prescriptive.
In  conclusion,  I  find  it  most  unfortunate  that  my 
colleague  from  Pakistan  has  chosen  to  refer  to  issues 
that  are  extraneous  to  the  debate  we  are  having  here 
today. We have diplomatic relations with Pakistan, and 
such issues should be addressed within the framework 
of those relations, rather than being aired elsewhere.
Mr.  Minami  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  convey  to  the  Secretary-General  Japan’s  deep 
appreciation for his efforts in guiding the activities of 
United Nations and for his latest report on the work of 
the Organization (A/70/1).
During the week of high-level debate, we celebrated 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) as a historic document. 
This year will also mark the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations, and we look forward to the related 
event on 23 October. However, we face huge challenges, 
such  as  climate  change,  the  refugee  and  migration 
crisis,  terrorism  and  protracted  conflict  situations 
throughout the world. How to address those challenges 
in a collective manner is the fundamental question for 
multilateralism.
As  we  all  know,  the  United  Nations  has  three 
pillars:  peace  and  security,  development  and  human 
rights. But we believe that peace and security have the 
most significant importance in the light of many crises 
in the world. United Nations peacekeeping operations 
are the most important tool that the United Nations has 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
We should also recognize the challenge in front of us, 
which  is  how  to  make  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  more  sustainable  in  both  financial  and 
human  resources  aspects.  That  requires  us  to  take 
15-31290
9/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
concrete  and  holistic  actions  in  order  to  improve  that 
tool. 
In  that  regard,  Japan  will  contribute  further  to 
peacekeeping operations by broadening its involvement 
based  on  a  proactive  contribution  to  peace,  through 
the  commitments  announced  by  Prime  Minister  Abe 
at  the  second  leaders  summit  on  peacekeeping,  held 
in  September.  Japan  also  continues  to  support  the 
strategic review process outlined in both the report of 
the  High-Level  Independent  Panel  on  Peacekeeping 
Operations  (see  A/70/95)  and  the  Secretary-General’s 
report (A/70/357). Japan will proactively contribute to 
peacekeeping-related issues during this session through 
active participation in the upcoming discussion in the 
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and in 
the Fifth Committee.
With  respect  to  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Japan  has  been  active  in  it  since  its  establishment,  in 
2005. This year, the Working Group on Lessons Learned 
held a series of meetings on the challenges associated 
with institution-building in post-conflict situations. We 
will conclude that exercise with a report by the Chair, 
to be issued by the end of the year. We hope that that 
report will benefit the intergovernmental negotiations 
on the 2015 review of the United Nations peacebuilding 
architecture, scheduled to commence this fall following 
the  issuance  of  the  report  of  the  Advisory  Group  of 
Experts (see A/69/968), by offering a useful perspective 
on the role to be played by the PBC in the context of 
institution-building.
Among  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Security  Council  should  undoubtedly  have 
the 
primary  responsibility  for  peace  and  security.  The 
Council should reflect the realities of the international 
community  of  the  twenty-first  century  in  order  to 
more  effectively  and  promptly  address  ever-growing 
conflicts and crises. Allow me to draw the Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  meeting  on  Security  Council  reform 
of the leaders of the group of four countries made up 
of  Brazil,  Germany,  India  and  Japan  that  was  held  in 
New York on 26 September. The group is determined to 
redouble its efforts towards securing concrete outcomes 
during this session of the General Assembly.
Our  leaders  have  adopted  the  2030  Agenda,  and 
now  Member  States  need  to  start  the  implementation 
of that holistic and ambitious Agenda, in particular the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Japan is fully 
committed to the implementation of the Agenda, both 
at home and abroad, in order to ensure that no one is 
left  behind.  All  United  Nations  States  Members  have 
a  responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is 
fully equipped to succeed in achieving that ambitious 
Agenda.  However,  I  must  say  that  the  process  of 
its  implementation  will  be  a  long  and  tough  one. 
The  positive  momentum  created  by  the  successful 
agreements this year — namely, in Sendai, Addis Ababa 
and at the recent summit here in New York — impels 
us  to  succeed  at  the  twenty-first  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in Paris. We should not 
miss that opportunity to establish a fair and effective 
international framework applicable to all parties.
When  we  talk  about  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda  in  the  light  of  “no  one  left  behind”,  we 
must  not  forget  the  development  challenges  faced  by 
African countries. The Tokyo International Conference 
on African Development (TICAD) process has been up 
and  running  since  1993,  in  close  cooperation  among 
Japan,  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa, 
the  African  Union  Commission,  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  World  Bank.  For 
over 20 years, Africa and Japan have shared both the 
concept and practice of development rooted in the idea 
of ownership and partnership. To continue building on 
that foundation, Japan will mobilize up to $32 billion 
between 2013 and 2017, in both the public and private 
sectors.  Japan 
to  further  enhance 
our  efforts  through  the  TICAD  process  to  promote 
transformative,  resilient  and  inclusive  growth  across 
Africa.  We  look  forward  to  the  forthcoming  sixth 
TICAD Summit, to be held in Nairobi in 2016, which 
will be the first ever to take place in Africa.
is  determined 
Seventy  years  have  passed  since  the  atomic 
bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Although there 
are  some  developments  that  run  counter  to  nuclear 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  the  international 
community must continue to make steady progress in 
order  to  achieve  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  In 
that connection, Japan regrets that the final document 
of 2015 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
was not adopted. 
Notwithstanding  that  fact,  Japan  would  like  to 
stress  that  the  NPT  regime  has  played  an  extremely 
important  role  in  maintaining  peace  and  stability  in 
the  international  community,  and  that  role  remains 
unchanged  even  today.  We  must  also  not  forget  that 
there  were  many  useful  discussions  on  the  main 
10/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
issues  of  the  Review  Conference,  and  Japan  deems  it 
important to further develop what was discussed during 
the Conference. In that context, Japan will submit to the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session a new draft 
resolution on the total elimination of nuclear weapons, 
on the basis of the discussions held at the last Review 
Conference.
The topic of human rights is one of the three pillars 
of the United Nations and is a matter of humanity and 
dignity. In the implementation of the SDGs, we believe 
that the focus on human rights should be emphasized 
more. Japan aims to create a society in which women 
shine,  not  only  in  Japan  but  also  all  over  the  world. 
Japan  places  particular  emphasis  on  the  women  and 
peace and security agenda, pursuant to Security Council 
resolution  1325  (2000).  This  year,  Japan  finalized  its 
own  action  plan  with  regard  to  the  participation  and 
protection of women, based on resolution 1325 (2000). 
Japan is determined to further promote that agenda in 
collaboration with United Nations bodies.
Despite the concerns reiterated by the international 
community  in  various  forums,  the  human  rights 
situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
remains  unchanged.  Grave  human  rights  violations 
continue to be committed on a large scale. Therefore, 
Japan,  together  with  the  European  Union,  will  once 
again  sponsor  a  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  of 
human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea at this session. We look forward to the continuous 
and active engagement of the Security Council on that 
issue.
With  regard  to  administrative  and  budgetary 
issues,  during  the  main  session  the  Fifth  Committee 
will  address  both  the  scale  of  assessments  and  the 
budget proposal for the 2016-2017 biennium. In order 
to ensure budgetary discipline and the United Nations 
ability  to  deliver  its  mandate,  Japan  will  carefully 
analyse and judge the appropriateness and affordability 
of the proposed programme budget. Japan requests that 
the  Secretariat  take  a  fresh  look  at  the  needs  of  the 
Organization.  Japan  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the 
Secretary-General’s continuing and strong commitment 
to the better management of the Secretariat and United 
Nations facilities.
Finally, I would like to conclude my statement today 
by  assuring  the  Assembly  that  Japan  will  continue  to 
work  closely  with  the  Secretary-General  to  ensure  a 
more  effective  and  efficient  United  Nations.  To  that 
end, I would like to add that Japan is determined and 
ready to serve as a new member of the Security Council 
beginning  in  January  2016,  if  elected  by  the  Member 
States here in the Hall tomorrow.
Mr.  Adamov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation of Belarus read with interest the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/70/1).  We  share  the  report’s  overall  assessments 
of  the  international  situation,  which  were  highlighted 
by  many  speakers  during  the  general  debate  at  this 
seventieth session. 
the 
Belarus  notes  with  satisfaction  the  efforts  of  the 
Organization  on  areas  of  priority  for  our  country: 
disarmament,  including  nuclear  disarmament,  and 
fight  against  human 
international  security; 
trafficking;  establishing  an  energy  agenda 
for 
the  Organization;  the  problems  of  middle-income 
countries;  and  advancing  the  interests  of  youth.  We 
note  the  positive  changes  in  the  working  methods  of 
the Secretariat on such topics as the rule of law and the 
responsibility to protect. We believe that it is necessary 
to continue work on those issues on the basis of open 
consultations with Member States.
In  spite  of  certain  successes  we  have  seen  in  the 
Organization’s activities, we believe that it is necessary 
to pay attention to the need for further improvements 
in  its  work.  Belarus  continues  to  express  its  concern 
about the format for the implementation of the Rights 
Up  Front 
the 
international  civil  service  to  carry  out  human  rights 
monitoring functions on risk identification without the 
agreement of the States concerned, or placing excessive 
emphasis on the human rights aspect of United Nations 
country programmes.
initiative.  We  oppose  authorizing 
We note with concern the Secreatariat’s unilateral 
and  non-transparent  promotion  of  confrontational 
ideas  on  which  Member  States  have  not  agreed  and 
that  may  even  contradict  their  legislation  and  their 
cultural, religious and other foundations. Even if such 
approaches are set out in the internal documents of the 
Secretariat,  they  undermine  trust  in  the  Organization 
and  are  not  coducive  to  unity  among  Member  States. 
We  can  find  an  example  of  that  in  the  controversial 
discussion in March on the issue of defining the family 
status of Secretariat staff for the payment of benefits.
The issue of improving the situation with regard to 
ensuring geographical balance in the Secretariat is still 
relevant, first and foremost when it comes to appointing 
senior officials. We must not forget that the goal is not 
15-31290
11/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
to entrench one’s representatives and hold on to posts, 
but to ensure as broad a range of views and diversity of 
approaches and mindsets within the Secretariat.
Against 
the  backdrop  of 
the  processes  of 
revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  and  reforming  the 
Security  Council,  Belarus  must  note  the  existence 
of  systemic  problems  in  the  interaction  between 
permanent representatives and the Secretariat. That has 
made  it  necessary  for  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  to 
advance an initiative on holding an informal dialogue 
on  the  issue  under  the  aegis  of  the  President  of  the 
Assembly at this session. We hope that the outcome of 
the  dialogue  will  be  duly  accepted  by  the  Secretary-
General and his staff.
to 
We  also  call  for  greater  attention 
issues 
concerning the everyday operation of the Organization 
and  further  improving  the  forms  and  methods  of  the 
Secretariat’s work. Given the challenges and objectives 
facing  the  Organization,  that  may  seem  insignificant, 
but it is precisely such details that determine how the 
context and course of our work will affect the overall 
results.
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
submitting his report on the work of the Organization 
(A/70/1)  and  for  his  leadership  as  the  helm  of  the 
Organization. The consideration of this item coincides 
with the commemoration of the seventieth anniversary 
of the founding of the United Nations, an ideal occasion 
to reflect on the achievements and challenges beyond 
the past 12 months. 
We agree with the Secretary-General that
“through  seven  decades  of  profound  turbulence 
and  change,  the  vision  articulated  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  has  stood  the  test  of  time, 
even as the world has become transformed beyond 
anything our founders imagined” (A/70/1, para. 1).
International  peace 
are  not 
feasible  without  sustainable,  equitable  and  inclusive 
development  that  benefits  all  individuals  and  all 
peoples.  The  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law  have  continued  to  serve  as  a  fundamental  guide 
for  international  relations.  However,  they  have  been 
violated by the conduct of certain States that resort to 
the use and threat of force and serious actions against 
the sovereignty of other nations, including through the 
application of unilateral coercive measures.
security 
and 
Just a few days ago, world leaders adopted a new 
development  agenda  with  goals  for  the  next  15  years. 
We are beginning the most difficult phase — to make 
a  reality  of  the  agreements  embodied  in  that  agenda. 
It will not be easy. It will depend upon political will, 
availability    of  and  access  to  economic  and  financial 
resources, and international solidarity and cooperation, 
bearing  very  much  in  mind  the  asymmetries  and 
disparities  in  development  among  nations.  Nor  will  it 
be  possible  to  fulfil  the  new  sustainable  development 
agendaby a[pplying coercive or unilateral measures or 
economic, commercial and financial blockades, nor by 
subjugating entire peoples to colonialism or the rigours 
of foreign occupation.
The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  in  Paris 
at  the  end  of  the  year,  will  again  test  the  capacity  of 
humankind  to  ensure  its  own  survival  and  that  of 
other species living on our planet. Our future depends 
on  making  crucial  changes  to  the  current  patterns  of 
production and consumption, which reflect selfishness 
and the irrationality guiding neoliberal capitalism.
The  terrible  threat  of  destruction  through  the  use 
of  nuclear  weapons  continues  to  be  an  unresolved 
problem. Its solution will also determine the survival of 
human beings. The only way to save humankind from 
the terrible impact of nuclear weapons is their complete 
prohibition  and  total  elimination.  Cuba  is  firmly 
committed  to  the  international  efforts  to  achieve  that 
priority objective. Sadly, the ninth Review Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  concluded  without  any  concrete 
agreements, thus accentuating the shortcomings of the 
international legal regime to solve the challenge posed 
by  nuclear  weapons.  New  ideas  and  approaches  are 
needed, and we hope that Member States will succeed 
in  speedily  breaking  the  inertia  in  the  disarmament 
machinery of the United Nations.
Cuba rejects the existence of all kinds of weapons of 
mass destruction and firmly condemns the use of such 
weapons.  Consolidating  multilateralism    and,  in  that 
context, strengthening and implementing the provisions 
of  the  respective  conventions  against  biological  and 
chemical weapons are also priorities for Cuba.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  discussions  continued  on  one  of 
the  crucial  components  of  the  transformation  of  the 
Organization:  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
The establishment of a genuinely fair, democratic and 
12/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
equitable new international order remains an illusion. 
The democratization of the Security Council based on 
a radical reform remains a pending task. 
To conclude, I support the words of President Raúl 
Castro Ruz, taken from his address to the Assembly at 
the end of September:
We  need  a  more  democratic  and  effective  United 
Nations,  one  whose  organs  respect  their  separate 
mandates and with a revitalized, strengthened General 
Assembly  at  its  centre  that  is  fully  able  to  exercise 
the functions assigned it by the Charter of the United 
Nations.
The Security Council should fulfil its obligation to 
promote a negotiated settlement to the Israeli occupation 
of Palestinian territories, set a definitive datae for the 
end  of  that  occupation  and  make  a  reality  of  the  will 
of  the  international  community  with  regard  to  the 
peaceful coexistence of two independent States. Cuba 
reaffirms its unwavering solidarity with the Palestinian 
people and its firm, decisive support for all actions that 
will lead to recognition of the State of Palestine on the 
basis of the pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its 
capital, as well as to the right of the State of Palestine to 
become a full Member of the Organization.
and 
The 
new 
information 
communication 
technologies  are 
tools  created  by  human  beings 
that  hold  immense  potential  for  their  well-being 
and  development,  if  they  are  used  for  peaceful  ends 
and  noble  goals.  Closer  international  cooperation  is 
needed  to  combat  the  harmful  use  of  the  Internet,  in 
particular cyberterrorism, cybercrime, xenophobia and 
racism, among other scourges. At the same time, it is 
essential  to  respect  sovereignty  in  cyberspace  and  to 
reject  hegemony  in  that  regard.  The  militarization  of 
cyberspace is unacceptable, as is the covert and illegal 
use of information and communication technologies to 
attack other States.
Cuba 
the  call  of 
the  Ebola  epidemic 
immediately  answered 
the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Executive  Director  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
to  address 
in  West  Africa, 
confirming  the  validity  of  the  principles  of  solidarity 
and  internationalism  that  the  Cuban  Revolution  has 
practised  since  its  own  triumph.  Cuba  is  honoured 
to  belong  to  a  region  —  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean — that moves in the vanguard of promoting 
peace  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes,  having 
been  proclaimed  by  its  leaders  as  a  zone  of  peace 
during the second Summit of the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States, held in Havana.
“Cuba is celebrating with profound commitment 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations. 
Despite the efforts that have been made throughout 
those  years,  not  enough  has  been  done  to  save 
present  and  future  generations  from  the  scourge 
of  war  and  to  protect  their  right  to  sustainable 
development  without  exclusions.  The  United 
Nations should be defended from unilateralism and 
should  be  deeply  reformed  to  democratize  it  and 
bring it closer to the peoples.” (A/70/PV.14, p. 6)
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): Let me 
start by thanking the Secretary-General for his report 
on the work of the Organization (A/70/1).
Seventy  years  after  the  establishment  of  the 
Organization, the vision of its founders set out in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  still  the  beacon  for 
our collective efforts to achieve the goals of the United 
Nations. In the course of those 70 years, so many things 
have changed, but not the aspirations of “We the peoples 
of  the  United  Nations”,  who  want  to  live  together  in 
peace and who have faith in fundamental human rights 
and the dignity and worth of every human being. Today 
more than ever, we need to achieve the purposes of the 
Organization and to respect and reaffirm its principles.
The  world  today  is  full  of  perils  and  hopes.  The 
ideals of the Charter have never been so within reach, 
yet at the same time the challenges to them have never 
been so grave. Through our collective endeavours, we 
have achieved a lot, but much more remains to be done.
The  past  year  provides  a  typical  example  of 
the  history  of  the  Organization,  a  year  of  great 
achievements  and  big  disappointments.  On  the  one 
hand,  the  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  was  finalized  and  the 
Joint Comprehensive Program of Action between Iran 
and  the  P5+1  was  concluded.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
people  of  Palestine  still  live  under  occupation,  while 
many people in our region, from Syria to Yemen, are 
living under miserable conditions, and the brutality of 
extremist  groups  like  Daesh,  the  Al-Nusra  Front  and 
Boko Haram continue.
Let me briefly reflect on some of the main areas of 
the activity of the Organization.
15-31290
13/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
In  the  field  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the  successful  conclusion  of  negotiations  between 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the  P5+1  countries, 
which  resulted  in  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action, endorsed by the Security Council, proved that, 
with seriousness, good faith and a win-win approach, 
diplomacy  can  unlock  even  one  of  the  most  complex 
issues. We believe that the deal not only transforms the 
dynamics  of  interaction  between  my  country  and  the 
international community, but that it also has important 
positive  ramifications  for  the  entire  region  and  can 
help facilitate more cooperation in various fields, from 
security to development to the environment. 
territorial 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  consistent  and 
sincere in its call to establish in our region a platform 
for  dialogue,  which  should  be  conducted  on  the  basis 
of  common  goals  and  principles  as  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  respect  for 
the  sovereignty, 
integrity  and  political 
independence  of  all  countries,  non-intervention  in 
the  domestic  affairs  of  other  countries,  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, refraining from the threat of or 
the use of force, the promotion of peace and stability, 
and the achievement of progress and prosperity for all.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  underlines  the 
imperative of the total elimination of nuclear weapons 
as  a  requirement  for  international  security  and  an 
obligation  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weaopns  (NPT),  which  is  long  overdue. 
We regret that as a result of the opposition of a small 
minority, the 2015 NPT Review Conference could not 
achieve its objectives.
We are grateful to Member States for their support, 
which  enableed  the  Assembly  to  adopt  by  consensus 
resolution  68/127,  entitled  “A  world  against  violence 
and  violent  extremism”.  As  the  current  situation  and 
the escalation of violent extremism and terrorism in our 
region attest to the pertinence of that resolution and the 
idea behind it, we need to revisit that resolution during 
this session. We earnestly await the draft comprehensive 
plan of action on combating violent extremism that the 
Secretary-General is to present to the Assembly in the 
coming months.
We  believe 
issue  of  development 
should  always  enjoy  priority  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Organization.  Let  me  commend  all  those  involved  in 
the process to finalize the outcome document entitled 
“Transforming  our  world:  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development” (resolution 70/1), which our 
that 
the 
leaders  adopted  two  weeks  ago  in  this  organ.  As  the 
Agenda has been adopted, our undertakings can begin. 
The challenges ahead of us should be met collectively, 
in  a  resolute  and  coordinated  manner.  Implementing 
the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals demands 
more  inclusive  and  non-discriminatory  provisions, 
particularly  regarding  the  financing  and  transfer  of 
technology  and  associated  know-how  for  moving 
towards a truly global partnership. The Islamic Republic 
of Iran is committed to engaging constructively in the 
implementation of the Agenda at all levels, and in that 
regard  we  welcome  cooperation  with  the  public  and 
private sectors.
The  situation  in  our  region  shows  how  our 
challenges  in  the  globalized  world  are  interconnected 
and mutually reinforcing. Our region is not only facing 
dire  climate  conditions  due  to  climate  change,  but  is 
also grappling with the scourge of terrorism and violent 
extremism. While terrorists damage the environment, 
they also force sustainable development objectives from 
the agendas being pursued by countries, forcing them 
to spend their national resources on fighting insecurity. 
We  are  extremely  concerned  about  the  situation  in 
parts of the region, especially Syria, Yemen and Libya, 
which has inflicted untold misery upon the people and 
enabled the extremists to continue their savagery. The 
United  Nations  system  should  assume  a  more  active 
role  and  do  everything  in  its  power  to  find  peaceful 
solutions to those situations and to end those tragedies.
Before  concluding,  let  me  reiterate  the  relevance 
of  the  principles  on  which  the  Organization  was 
founded. The sovereign equality of all Member States, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes 
and  refraining  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  in 
international relations are cornerstones upon which the 
Organization was built and continues to function. The 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  reiterating  its  unwavering 
support for the work of the United Nations based on its 
Charter, is ready to engage with all Member States to 
further the United Nations goals and collectively tackle 
the challenges facing humankind as a whole.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker on the debate on this item.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
5  minutes  for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats.
14/16 
15-31290
14/10/2015 
A/70/PV.32
Mr.  Singh  (India):  I  take  the  floor  in  exercise  of 
our right of reply in respose to a reference made by the 
representative of Pakistan to the Indian state of Jammu 
and Kashmir, which is, has always been and will remain 
an  integral  part  of  India.  It  is  all  the  more  ironical 
that those comments should come from a country that 
continues  to  illegally  occupy  part  of  the  Indian  state 
of Jammu and Kashmir. Those references are entirely 
out of context and constitute a clear interference in the 
internal affairs of India. Therefore, we reject them in 
their entirety.
It is also a matter of deep regret that Pakistan has 
violated the ceasefire on a number of occasions in the 
past several weeks, leading to the loss of civilian lives 
on the Indian side. Indian armed forces and paramilitary 
forces have responded to those provocations. We would 
like  to  remind  the  delegation  of  Pakistan  of  what  the 
honourable  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of  India 
said  during  her  address  to  the  General  Assembly  on 
1 October.
“None of us can accept that terrorism is a legitimate 
instrument  of  statecraft.  The  world  shared  our 
outrage  at  the  2008  Mumbai  terror  attacks,  in 
which  citizens  of  many  nations  were  helplessly 
butchered. That the mastermind behind the attack is 
walking free is an affront to the entire international 
community. Not only have past assurances in this 
regard  not  been  honoured,  but  new  cross-border 
terrorist  attacks  have  taken  place  recently,  and 
two  terrorists  from  across  the  border  have  been 
captured alive. We all know that these attacks are 
meant to destabilize India and legitimize Pakistan’s 
illegal  occupation  of  parts  of  the  Indian  state  of 
Jammu and Kashmir and its claim to the rest of it.” 
(A/70/PV.22, p. 44).
The  honourable  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of 
India then added,
“Let  me  use  this  occasion  to  spell  out  our 
approach  clearly.  India  remains  open  to  dialogue 
but finds talks and terrorism to be incompatible ... 
We do not need four points. We need just one — give 
up  terrorism  and  let  us  sit  down  and  talk  ...  That 
was precisely what was discussed and decided by 
the  two  Prime  Ministers  in  Ufa  this  July.  Let  us 
hold talks, at the level of national security advisers, 
on all issues connected to terrorism and arrange an 
early meeting of our Directors-General of Military 
Operations to address the situation on the border. 
If  the  response  is  serious  and  credible,  India  is 
prepared to address all outstanding issues through 
bilateral dialogue.” (ibid.)
Mr. An Myong Hun (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  I  would  like  to  respond  to  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Japan.  I  will  try  to  be 
brief because we have raised the issue of Japan on other 
occasions throughout this session.
This year, we celebrate 70 years since the founding 
of  the  United  Nations.  This  is  a  moment  to  reflect 
on  the  peace  and  security  issues  facing  the  world. 
The  United  Nations  was  created  to  save  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war, but that scourge 
of  war  still  lingers  after  70  years  and  has  not  been 
completely  eliminated.  The  sufferings  and  miseries 
of all sorts inflicted upon the Korean nation and other 
Asian peoples by Japanese militarism, with its illegal 
and military occupations, remain vivid in the people’s 
memories. During the occupation of Korea alone, Japan 
committed  such  crimes  against  humanity  as  forcing 
tens of thousands of Korean women into what is called 
military  sexual  slavery,  exploiting  them  by  inflicting 
all kinds of inhuman pain and humiliation.
As  demonstrated  by  the  statement  made  by  the 
Japanese Prime Minister in August, on the occasion of 
the defeat of Japanese militarism, Japan still denies its 
past crimes of aggression, even after 70 years. This is 
a very important moment to reflect upon that case. The 
denial by any country of its past crimes means that it 
will repeat the same crimes. 
Currently, we are seeing an open attempt to revive 
militarism in the recent moves of the Japanese political 
authorities. Those are very dangerous moves that should 
concern the international community. On this occasion, 
my  delegation  once  again  strongly  urges  Japan  this 
year, which marks the seventieth year of the victory of 
the Second World War, to thoroughly repudiate its past 
crimes inflicted upon humanity.
Ms.  Sayed  (Pakistan):  I  am  taking  the  floor  to 
exercise  my  right  of  reply  with  regard  to  the  remarks 
just  made  by  the  representative  of  India.  The  Indian 
representative  has  talked  about  the  importance  of 
dialogue. I want to remind him that it was not Pakistan 
that  stopped  the  dialogue  process;  it  was  India  that 
cancelled 
talks  with 
Pakistan scheduled for August 2014.
the  Foreign  Secretary-level 
With regard to Kashmir, no matter what the Indian 
representative  says,  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
15-31290
15/16
A/70/PV.32 
14/10/2015
has to be resolved in accordance with Security Council 
resolutions. 
With  regard  to  terrorism,  let  me  point  out  that 
Pakistan itself is the biggest victim of terrorism planted 
on  its  soil,  some  of  it  emanating  from  our  immediate 
neighbourhood. Terrorism is a common threat, and we 
must all work together to eliminate it.
India’s  insistence  on  limiting  the  talks  to  a 
one-point agenda proves that it is neither interested in 
nor serious about engaging in a genuine dialogue. Using 
the issue of terrorism, India has not only managed to 
stall the bilateral dialogue but also vitiated the overall 
atmosphere  between  the  two  countries.  Pakistan’s 
commitment  and  its  role  and  sacrifice  in  the  fight 
against terrorism, including the success of our ongoing 
counter-terrorism operations, have been acknowledged 
and praised by the entire international community.
India  has  also  failed  to  bring  to  justice  the 
perpetrators of terrorism against innocent civilians in 
the  Samjhauta  Express  bombing.  That  raises  serious 
doubts about India’s willingness to convict its nationals 
involved in terror incidents against Muslims.
Mr. Minami (Japan): My delegation would like to 
exercise its right of reply in response to the statement 
made by the representative of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  I  attentively  listened  to  that 
statement.
Throughout the 70 years since the end of the Second 
World War, the Japanese people have established a free 
and democratic nation that respects human rights and 
the  rule  of  law.  As  a  peace-loving  nation,  Japan  has 
contributed  to  the  peace  and  prosperity  of  the  Asia-
Pacific  region.  Japan  will  continue  to  walk  the  path 
of  a  peace-loving  nation  and  to  further  contribute  to 
the peace and prosperity of the world. Such a position, 
as  articulated  by  previous  Cabinets,  will  remain 
unshakeable.
This  year,  in  a  Cabinet  decision,  Prime  Minister 
Shinzo  Abe  made  a  statement  on  14  August  on  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  war.  In  his 
statement,  the  Prime  Minister  articulated  that  Japan 
has  repeatedly  expressed  its  feelings  of  deep  remorse 
and  heartfelt  apologies  for  its  actions  during  the 
Second World War. He clearly stated that the positions 
articulated  by  previous  Cabinet  decisions  will  remain 
unshakeable. In the same statement, the Prime Minister 
also  stated  that  we  must  never  forget  that  there  were 
women  behind  the  battlefields  whose  honour  and 
dignity  were  severely  injured  during  the  wars  in  the 
twentieth century, and we have engraved that past into 
our hearts.
Mr.  An  Myong  Hun 
(Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea):  I  listened  very  carefully  to  what 
the  representative  of  Japan  said.  History  itself  cannot 
be  denied  and  cannot  be  erased.  All  of  what  he  said 
just now serves as camouflage and a cover-up designed 
in  an  attempt  to  hide  the  heinous  crimes  that  were 
committed  against  humanity.  That  crimes  were 
committed against humanity during the Second World 
War is an historical fact that has not yet been clearly or 
completely eliminated. That is why the Korean nations 
and other Asian nations still talk about them. We urge 
the  Japanese  authorities  to  strongly  heed  what  the 
international community has called for.
Mr. Minami (Japan): I again attentively listened to 
the statement by the representative of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. I refrain from entering into 
a detailed rebuttal to that statement, but I just want to 
stress that the human rights situation in the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea is a matter of grave concern 
to  the  international  community.  That  is  why  many 
resolutions  on  that  issue  have  been  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
The meeting at which the Security Council took up the 
same  issue  last  December  is  still  fresh  in  our  minds. 
Accordingly, I would like to stress again that the matter 
of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea is an ongoing matter and not a historical one.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
contained in document A/70/1?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of item 109.
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.
16/16 
15-31290
