United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
15th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Arízaga 
(Ecuador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.55 p.m.
Address by Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, President 
of the Republic of Belarus
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, President of the Republic 
of Belarus. 
President  Lukashenka 
Mr.  Alyaksandr  Lukashenka,  President  of  the 
Republic of Belarus, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Alyaksandr 
Lukashenka, President of the Republic of Belarus, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
(spoke 
in  Russian): 
Seventy years ago, after the end of the Second World 
War,  humankind  cherished  the  hope  that  a  just  world 
order, based on mutual understanding and cooperation, 
might  be  established.  However,  what  followed  after 
that — the Cold War — once again split the world into 
opposing blocs. After the break-up of the Soviet Union 
and  the  socialist  camp,  many  thought  that  military 
conflicts  and  the  reasons  for  confrontation  between 
States would finally disappear. Alas, those hopes have 
not  yet  been  realized.  Unfortunately,  we  must  admit 
that our world has not become more stable, predictable 
or comfortable for the majority of people on the planet, 
despite  the  enormous  work  and  tremendous  efforts 
made to implement the large-scale plans of the United 
Nations.
At  the  Summit  three  days  ago  we  adopted  an 
ambitious agenda for the United Nations for the next 15 
years in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). That outcome document 
focuses on five strategic areas that are vitally important 
for all of us, namely, people, planet, prosperity, peace 
and  partnership.  Those  notions  did  not  emerge  from 
nowhere. They are a logical continuation of the efforts 
made  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Nevertheless, those efforts now give rise to conflicting 
emotions. Yes, there have been certain shifts, including 
a reduction in global poverty levels, an increase in the 
level of protection, improvements in maternal and child 
health, and expanded access to education. 
But  despite 
those  achievements,  we  have 
to 
acknowledge  that  we  have  not  had  a  qualitative 
breakthrough  for  the  good  of  human  civilization. 
Moreover,  we  see  that  the  world  today  is  being 
engulfed by new challenges, and old problems are being 
exacerbated.  Those  challenges  and  problems  do  not 
concern just one area, but rather all the most important 
aspects of human activity.
First,  today  we  are  confronted  with  entirely  new 
geopolitical  realities  and  military  conflicts.  Many 
speakers  before  me  have  already  mentioned  that  fact. 
Unprecedented  tension  has  arisen  in  international 
relations. Threats are coming to the fore for which there 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29425 (E)
*1529425*
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
are as yet no answers. Focusing on minor disputes, the 
global  community  has  overlooked  the  emergence  of 
aggressive global terrorist groups.
The  entire  system  of  international  security  is 
undergoing  a  most  serious  crisis.  There  is  a  loss  of 
mutual  trust  between  global  players.  There  is  an 
unwillingness  to  compromise.  There  is  a  return  to 
elements  of  a  bloc-like  confrontation  that  have,  in 
fact, basically put the world on the brink of a new war. 
There  are  continuing  attempts  to  impose  a  particular 
development model on other countries. What does that 
lead to? As a result of foreign interference, the export 
of  colour  revolutions  and  artificial  regime  changes, 
countries that used to be stable have now been plunged 
into  chaos  and  anarchy.  All  of  that  is  covered  over 
with  the  gloss  of  democracy.  Instead  of  the  promised 
democracy and prosperity, people in those countries are 
living through extreme suffering or have been forced to 
flee. Crowds of migrants are besieging Europe today. 
And  that  too  has  now  become  an  acute  international 
problem.
Today we are increasingly dependent on each other. 
The actions of one country have direct implications for 
the  interests  of  many  others.  Invulnerable  countries 
no  longer  exist.  We  must  honestly  acknowledge  that 
today  we  do  not  have  an  effective  system  of  checks 
and  balances.  The  States  that  claim  global  leadership 
cannot,  unfortunately,  escape  the  temptation  to  use 
force and economic blackmail in order to promote their 
own interests. The world has come perilously close to a 
de facto renunciation of the principles of international 
law as they are enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations.
That  is  why  I  am  deeply  convinced  that  the 
Organization  badly  needs  a  new  wide-ranging 
discussion of the principles for the future coexistence 
of  States  and  peoples.  I  have  already  mentioned  that 
before,  but  I  want  to  emphasize  once  again  that  the 
Organization  must  not  become  a  forum  for  mutual 
recrimination  and  confrontation  among  States.  There 
is no alternative to dialogue. We will have to deal with 
our problems collectively. One can of course build new 
walls  and  draw  new  dividing  lines,  but  that  will  not 
make our problems disappear.
Secondly,  global  economic  threats  are  a  serious 
challenge to world stability. Currency wars, sanctions, 
the 
commodity  markets,  unfair 
competition and other negative phenomena compound 
the global crisis. Attempts on the part of a number of 
redivision  of 
leading  States  to  solve  their  problems  at  the  expense 
of  other  countries  also  add  to  the  confrontation  and 
the  feeling  of  estrangement.  We  can  get  out  of  that 
deadlock  only  through  comprehensive  cooperation 
among the economies of all countries and through the 
search  for  the  best  paths  to  sustainable  development 
for the benefit of the global community, not just for an 
individual country. At the same time, it is important to 
support the poor and poorest States.
It  is  only  through  common  efforts  that  we  will 
able  to  forge  a  new  formula  of  universal,  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation.  Belarus  suggests  that  the  idea 
of  the  integration  serves  as  a  foundation  for  such 
universal cooperation, as one of the more topical trends 
of  the  modern  world.  Just  take  a  look  at  how  many 
new  integration  groups  have  emerged  recently.  Today 
we  talk  about  the  prospects  for  cooperation  between 
the  European  Union  and  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Union,  about  the  large-scale  Great  Silk  Road  project, 
about  creating  the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership  and  the 
Transatlantic Free Trade zones and dozens of others.
If we succeed in avoiding unnecessary and dangerous 
competition  among  integration  models,  and  instead 
make  them  compatible  with  and  complementary  to 
each other, ideally we will establish a global integration 
structure that would cover our entire planet and closely 
link the various regions and whole continents. Such a 
paradigm could provide for the peaceful coexistence of 
the various nations and States, united by the common 
purpose  of  progress  and  prosperity.  The  value  of  the 
integration  process  lies  in  its  democratic  nature.  To 
a  certain  extent,  it  equalizes  the  opportunities  for  all 
stakeholders and enables both small and middle-sized 
countries  to  develop  their  potential  and  become  an 
important link in that process.
The  key  prerequisite  for  integration  is  mutual 
benefit. However, the desire to reap immediate unilateral 
advantages is the root of evil. We need to realize our 
responsibility for the future and think of what we will 
leave behind. We must not forget that extreme poverty 
in  some  regions  of  our  planet,  outrageous  social 
inequalities  within  societies,  disproportion  among 
States and the lack of opportunities, above all among 
young  people,  create  fertile  ground  for  international 
terrorism and organized crime.
The  social,  humanitarian  and  ecological  spheres 
comprise  a  third  cluster  of  global  threats.  Of  late, 
we  have  been  hearing  resounding  calls  from  several 
countries  for  maximum  freedom.  Such  calls  put  the 
2/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
basic  foundations  of  human  society,  including  such 
concepts  as  family,  morals  and  virtue,  to  the  test. 
Irresponsible  social  ideas  may  lead  to  new  divisions 
among  the  various  cultures  and  give  birth  to  harsh 
religious rejection in ethnic conflicts. Have those social 
innovators considered the consequences of their words 
and actions, I wonder?
The  same  selfish  attitude  is  characteristic  of 
humankind’s approach to nature. For many years now, 
the  international  community  has  been  trying,  with 
no success, to meet the challenges of climate change. 
Many simply prefer to shift the burden of responsibility 
onto others, onto the next generation. 
Thinking  about  such  problems,  one  cannot  help 
arriving at a certain idea. It seems there is one deep-
rooted  source  of  those  crises  and  challenges.  It  is  an 
artificial cult of individual rights and human freedoms 
at  the  expense  of  collective  social  interests.  Under 
the  guise  of  protecting  human  rights,  advocates  of 
such  ideas  seek  to  justify  the  ousting  and  overthrow 
of  Governments,  the  destruction  of  States  and  wars 
over resources. Chaos and anarchy are proliferating. A 
predatory attitude towards nature and the pursuit of easy 
profits are being fostered. That leads to the degradation 
of human consciousness, in which someone’s perverted 
whims are treated as the norm. Such approaches give 
a  green  light  to  social  degradation  and  the  decay  of 
moral principles and human values. The very boundary 
between good and evil disappears. 
Belarus does not claim to have ready-made recipes 
for resolving those issues, but we sincerely believe that 
the  answer  lies  in  the  realm  of  those  ideas  that  were 
proposed to the world 70 years ago by the founders of 
the United Nations. First and foremost, I refer here to 
the unconditional condemnation of violence. Wars must 
not be an instrument for settling scores between States. 
“Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved 
by understanding,” said the wise Einstein. It is hard to 
argue with that. It is only through self-restraint that we 
can ensure the well-being and protection of everyone, 
the powerful and the vulnerable alike. That is precisely 
the  essence  of  international  law,  which  is  the  only 
alternative to the law of the jungle.
Belarus  will  always  support  any  and  all  efforts 
and  initiatives  aimed  at  strengthening  the  system 
of  international  law.  That  is  our  key  foreign-policy 
priority.  However,  international  law  alone  cannot 
safeguard  peace  and  security  globally.  What  is  also 
needed is to create decent conditions of life for every 
single  individual  at  the  national  level.  I  am  deeply 
convinced that only a strong State can adequately cope 
with such a task. It is paradoxical that humankind has 
entered  the  twenty-first  century  with  a  large  number 
of failed and ineffective States. What is a failed State? 
It is basically one characterized by the absence of the 
rule of law and stability and by glaring inequality and 
extreme poverty, the lack of motivation and the absence 
of healthy moral values among the young.
We in Belarus understand that very well. Over the 
past two decades, we have been purposefully building 
a sovereign State with a socially oriented economy. We 
have paid and are continuing to pay the utmost attention 
to  policies  that  strengthen  the  family  and  help  young 
people  fully  realize  their  potential.  Let  me  be  frank: 
we  are  very  concerned  by  the  ongoing  destruction  of 
traditional family values that is taking place in several 
countries.  We  particularly  do  not  like  being  invited 
to  accept  certain  moral  deviations  and  various  social 
innovations  as  natural.  I  will  not  to  dwell  on  that 
problem  too  much.  I  am  afraid  that  I  will  get  bogged 
down here and will be criticized, but I feel compelled 
to ask the following: who will give birth to children? 
We will do everything to ensure that our grandchildren 
and their descendants preserve socially nurtured moral 
values and good traditions of spirituality and culture.
I can assure everyone here with absolute confidence 
that anarchy, lawlessness and violence will never find a 
place on the soil of Belarus, no matter what guise they 
take, including democracy. We are sufficiently strong 
and  self-assured  not  to  let  them  in  from  the  outside. 
As  before,  a  stable  Belarus  will  continue  to  remain  a 
provider of regional and international security.
We intend to build equal, mutually beneficial and 
respectful relations with all countries around the world. 
Good  neighbourliness  and  mutual  assistance  are  of 
special value to us. That is why today we strive for a 
peaceful settlement of the crisis in brotherly Ukraine, 
as well as in other hotspots on the planet. Belarus will 
continue to be actively engaged in collective efforts to 
meet global threats and challenges, first and foremost 
within international organizations. Those organizations 
have  invaluable  experience,  expertise  and  potential. 
Belarus  can  offer  the  international  community  its 
experience, although limited, in tackling a number of 
problems  —  for  example,  the  Chernobyl  disaster  and 
the  elimination  of  its  consequences,  and  dealing  with 
the issue of trafficking in people. 
15-29425
3/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
Thinking  about  our  national  developmental 
experience, I can reach the following conclusions. Only 
an alliance of strong, responsible and effective States, 
united by the system of international law, can adequately 
respond  to  modern  global  threats  and  challenges.  For 
that, the role of the United Nations is crucial.
These days we hear a lot of criticism about the United 
Nations. Of course, the Republic of Belarus shares the 
key idea that the Organization cannot remain static, it 
should  keep  abreast  of  the  times.  For  us,  there  is  an 
obvious need to reform the structures and activities of 
the United Nations while maintaining the inviolability 
of the purposes and principles of its Charter. It is also 
important  to  understand  that  the  United  Nations,  as  I 
have said on many occasions, is all of us together. The 
well-being of the world community will depend on how 
coordinated and constructive we are.
Far be it from me to want to sound prophetic, once 
again,  on  the  second  day  of  our  work,  but  today  one 
cannot help feel that we are witnessing the spectre of a 
massive new war. We must not allow that sinister vision 
to turn into a reality.
Yesterday we discussed very important issues and 
the  agenda  for  the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  But 
when we talk of sustainable development, that may well 
sound like sacrilege to millions of people, both old and 
young,  because  they  are  dying.  What  we  must  do  is 
come together and adopt one decision, and one decision 
only, namely, to put an end to all wars and conflicts that 
have erupted and are currently ravaging our planet.
In conclusion, I would like to quote another eminent 
person,  Nelson  Mandela.  That  unbroken  fighter  for 
justice  in  the  world  once  said,  “Sometimes  it  falls  on 
a generation to be great. You can be that generation.” I 
hope very much that such a destiny will indeed befall 
our  generation.  I  am  confident  that  we  will  find  the 
strength and common sense to do whatever it takes to 
change the world for the better. That is the only option 
we have.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Belarus for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Alyaksandr  Lukashenka,  President  of  the 
Republic of Belarus, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Muhammadu 
Buhari,  President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Buhari:  On  behalf  of  the  Government 
and the people of Nigeria, I would like to congratulate 
the President and his country on his election to preside 
over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session. 
May  I  also  express  appreciation  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa,  and  to  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, both of whom worked tirelessly to ensure 
the  proper  articulation  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  and  to  maintain  the  focus  and  commitment 
to  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations.  I  also  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his recent visit to Nigeria, where 
we held very useful discussions.
Fifty-five  years  ago,  almost  to  the  day,  my 
predecessor,  Nigeria’s  first  Prime  Minister,  Alhaji 
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, stood in this forum to declare 
Nigeria’s  desire  to  develop  and  maintain  friendly 
relations with all countries. He also assured the world of 
our country’s commitment to upholding the principles 
upon which the United Nations was founded.
My  country  has  lived  by  that  conviction,  even 
when,  for  instance,  judgements  went  against  us  in 
territorial disputes with our neighbours. We respected 
those  judgements  and  abided  by  them  as  a  mark 
of  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  Nigeria’s  record  in  the  service  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  is  second  to 
none. I myself, as a young officer in the Nigerian army, 
did  several  tours  of  duty  in  the  Congo  and  Lebanon. 
Nigeria has contributed to United Nations peacekeeping 
efforts in Ethiopia, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Darfur. 
Furthermore,  we  are  proud  of  our  contributions  to 
other  activities  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, the Human Rights Council 
and security-sector reform.
4/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
We  are  gratified  to  note  that  most  countries  have 
pledged their commitment to the post-2015 development 
agenda in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  contained  therein,  along 
with  their  means  of  implementation.  That  successor 
framework to the Millennium Development Goals has 
come with lofty aspirations and, if I may say so, heroic 
assumptions. Nonetheless, the new Goals target broad-
ranging  development  cooperation  by  the  international 
community  up  to  the  year  2030,  and  they  deserve 
universal support. That is because the SDGs mirror the 
hopes and aspirations of much of the world.
I should stress that for the newly adopted SDGs to 
be truly global, they must be practical. In that regard, 
the  Agenda’s  core  objectives  of  eradicating  poverty 
and  reducing  inequalities  must  be  met  within  the 
framework  of  revitalized  global  partnership  support 
and  concrete  policies  and  actions,  as  outlined  in  the 
Addis  Ababa  Agenda  on  Financing  for  Development. 
Luckily,  those  two  core  objectives  of  the  SDGs  are 
precisely at the centre of the agenda of  Nigeria’s new 
Administration. 
that 
It  must  be  emphasized 
foreign  direct 
investment,  supplemented,  where  suitable,  by  official 
development assistance, as outlined in the Addis Ababa 
Agenda, are necessary, though not sufficient, conditions 
for accelerated development in countries that are trying 
to catch up. In that connection, I would like to appeal 
to  industrialized  countries  to  redeem  their  pledges  to 
devote 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to 
development assistance. With the sole exception of the 
United Kingdom, all the countries concerned, so I am 
told, have still to meet that United Nations requirement. 
With the SDGs, we have the opportunity to improve the 
lives of people, not just in the developing world but in 
all nations.
The  Secretary-General  himself  has  listed  six 
essential elements for delivering on the SDGs, namely, 
dignity,  prosperity,  justice,  partnership,  planet  and 
people. As a prerequisite to those elements, and as we 
look  at  history  and  remember  the  terrible  events  that 
gave  rise  to  the  birth  of  the  United  Nations  in  1945, 
I  would  like  to  propose  a  seventh  essential  element, 
namely, peace. 
Peace is close to the hearts of Nigerians, as we are 
in  the  front  line  in  the  war  on  terror.  Boko  Haram’s 
war against the people of Nigeria, Chad, the Niger and 
Cameroon may not attract as much worldwide attention 
as the wars in the Middle East, but the suffering is just 
as great and the human cost is equally high. This is a war 
about values between progress and chaos. It concerns 
democracy and the rule of law. Boko Haram celebrates 
violence  against  the  weak  and  the  innocent  and, 
deplorably, hides behind its perverted interpretation of 
Islam. Boko Haram is as far from Islam as can possibly 
be imagined.
Many of my colleagues present in this forum want 
to know how our new Government intends to tackle the 
huge problems that we have inherited. Friends of Nigeria 
and foreign investor partners will be encouraged to know 
that the new Government is attacking the problems we 
inherited head-on. We intend to tackle the inequalities 
arising from massive unemployment and the previous 
Government’s policies that favoured a few people to the 
detriment of the many. We intend to emphasize quality 
technological  education  for  development  and  lay  a 
foundation for the comprehensive care of the aged, the 
disadvantaged and the infirm. But for now, terrorism is 
the immediate problem.
Accordingly, the new Nigerian Government, which 
I have the honour to head, has moved with dispatch to 
implement  a  bold  and  robust  strategy  to  defeat  Boko 
Haram. Nigeria and its neighbours — Cameroon, Chad, 
the  Niger  and  Benin  —  are  working  together  to  face 
the  common  threat  within  the  regional  framework  of 
the Lake Chad Basin Commission. We have established 
a  multinational  joint  task  force  to  confront,  degrade 
and  defeat  Boko  Haram.  We  have  driven  them  away 
from  many  of  their  strongholds,  killed  or  captured 
many  of  their  operatives  and  commanders  and  freed 
several  hundreds  of  hostages.  One  of  our  major  aims 
is to rescue the Chibok girls alive and unharmed. We 
are working around the clock to ensure their safety and 
eventual reunion with their families. The Chibok girls 
are constantly on our minds and in our plans.
Terrorism  is  by  no  means  the  main  or  the  only 
evil  threatening  and  undermining  the  well-being  of 
societies  around  the  world.  Corruption,  cross-border 
trafficking, 
financial  crime,  cybercrime,  human 
communicable  diseases,  climate  change  and 
the 
proliferation of weapons are all major challenges of the 
twenty-first century that the international community 
must  tackle  collectively.  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
Nigerian  Government’s  unwavering  commitment  to 
fighting corruption and illicit financial flows. By any 
measure, corruption and cross-border financial crimes 
15-29425
5/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
are impediments to development, economic growth and 
the realization of the well-being of citizens across the 
globe.
Nigeria  is  ready  and  willing  to  partner  with 
international  agencies  and  individual  countries  on 
a  bilateral  basis  to  confront  crime  and  corruption.  In 
particular,  I  call  upon  the  international  community 
to  urgently  redouble  its  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
mechanisms  for  dismantling  safe  havens  for  the 
proceeds of corruption and for ensuring the return of 
stolen funds and assets to their countries of origin.
The world is now facing another big new challenge, 
that  is,  human  trafficking.  It  is  an  old  evil  that  has 
taken on an altogether new and dangerous dimension, 
which threatens to upset international relationships. We 
in Africa are grieved to see in the international media 
the hundreds of thousands of our able-bodied men and 
women  who  are  fleeing  to  Europe,  with  thousands 
dying in the process in the desert or drowning in the 
Mediterranean. We condemn in the strongest possible 
terms  traffickers  in  human  beings  and  will  support 
any measures to apprehend and bring them to justice. 
At  the  same  time,  we  greatly  appreciate  European 
Governments, particularly those of Italy and Germany, 
for their understanding and humane treatment of those 
refugees.
Last  year,  our  continent  faced 
the  dreadful 
outbreak of Ebola. We sincerely thank the international 
community  for  its  collective  efforts  to  contain  that 
deadly  disease.  We  are  not  out  of  the  woods  yet,  but 
we would like to express our appreciation to the United 
States, the United Kingdom, France and China, which, 
in  collaboration  with  the  host  countries,  provided 
outstanding assistance to stop the spread of Ebola and 
to care for those infected.
Nigeria fully subscribes to and endorses Goals 13, 
14 and 15 of the Sustainable Development Goals with 
regard to climate change. In Nigeria, desertification and 
land erosion and degradation, which lead to biodiversity 
loss,  are  real  threats  to  our  environment  and,  under 
the auspices of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, we 
will  propose  a  regional  approach  to  combating  those 
environmental challenges. In that connection, we look 
forward  to  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in 
December. That Summit should give humankind hope 
that  the  looming  threat  faced  by  many  communities 
around the world is being addressed.
We are witnessing a dreadful increase in conflicts 
fuelled  by  the  availability  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.  I  call  upon  all  Member  States  to  show  the 
political will needed to uphold the Charter of the United 
Nations in that regard. For a start, robust implementation 
of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  will  guarantee  that  small 
arms and light weapons are transferred only in a legal 
manner.  Arms  traffickers  and  human  traffickers  are 
two evil species that the international community needs 
to eradicate.
As  we  engage  in  these  annual  debates,  we  must 
remind  ourselves  of  the  principles  that  led  to  the 
founding of the United Nations years ago. Among them 
are  the  peaceful  coexistence  and  self-determination 
of  peoples.  In  that  context,  the  unresolved  question 
of  self-determination  for  the  peoples  of  Palestine  and 
Western Sahara, both nations having been adjudged by 
the United Nations as being entitled to that inalienable 
right, must now be resolved without any further delay 
or obstacle.
The  international  community  has  come  to  pin  its 
hopes  on  resolving  the  Palestinian  issue  through  the 
two-State  solution,  which  recognizes  the  legitimate 
right of each State to exist in peace and security. The 
world  has  no  more  excuses  or  reasons  to  delay  the 
implementation  of  the  long  list  of  Security  Council 
resolutions on that question, nor do we have the moral 
right  to  deny  any  people  their  freedom  or  condemn 
them indefinitely to occupation and blockade.
The  United  Nations  is  70  years  old.  As  the 
world’s forum, it can count many more than 70 major 
achievements.  It  is  my  hope  that  in  the  next  70  years 
it  will  take  control  of  the  climate,  help  to  eliminate 
communicable  diseases,  eliminate  major  and  local 
conflicts  and  thereby  eliminate  the  refugee  problem, 
take major steps towards reducing harmful inequalities 
among  nations  and  within  nations  and,  above  all, 
eliminate nuclear weapons.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
6/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of 
the Gabonese Republic.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Gabonese Republic.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Ali 
Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese Republic, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Bongo Ondimba (spoke in French): This 
session is being held at a time when humankind is facing 
numerous challenges, some more difficult than others. 
Migration  crises,  humanitarian  crises,  immigration 
crises,  deadly  conflicts,  terrorism,  economic  crises, 
climate  change  and  pandemics  are  the  challenges  we 
face. It is obvious that, 70 years after the establishment 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  increasingly  aware  of 
the dangers that those situations pose, both for us and 
for future generations. That explains our presence and 
activities here and elsewhere in an effort to coordinate 
our  many  actions.  More  than  ever  before,  the  eyes 
of  our  peoples  are  on  the  United  Nations.  More  than 
ever  before,  our  Organization  has  shown  itself  to  be 
a  unique  forum  that  is  universal  in  nature  and  where 
humankind’s  diverse  concerns  and  aspirations  can  be 
wholly expressed.
The  topic  of  this  session  provides  us  with  an 
opportunity  to  take  a  look  at  how  our  Organization 
works. It also affords us a chance to develop forecasts 
and  new  prospects  for  the  Organization’s  future 
activities,  by  basing  them  on  the  main  pillars  of  its 
agenda,  namely,  peace,  security  and  human  rights. 
It  is  time  to  acknowledge  the  solid  nature  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  leadership,  expressed  through 
Member States constantly working together to manage 
international affairs. Together, we organized the fight 
against poverty and major diseases such as HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis,  malaria,  and  we  are  now  conquering 
Ebola. 
Together, we have fought for the rights of vulnerable 
persons  such  as  the  disabled,  the  elderly,  indigenous 
peoples and women and children, including widows and 
orphans. We should underscore, in passing, that in 2010 
the  General  Assembly,  on  Gabon’s  initiative,  adopted 
the  resolution  to  establish  International  Widows  Day 
(resolution 65/189). We have come together to respond 
to  humanitarian  emergencies,  global  warming  and 
other  cross-border  threats.  Together,  we  are  working 
to effectively respond to the many security challenges 
stemming  from 
terrorism  and  other  cross-border 
threats.  Together,  we  have  made  progress  in  the  area 
of  international  criminal  justice  in  order  to  be  more 
effective  in  combating  impunity.  Working  together, 
we  have  also  fostered  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
civilizations, strengthened relations among the peoples 
of the world and lowered identity barriers.
Despite  our  many  efforts,  however,  international 
peace  and  security  unfortunately  continue  to  be 
threatened,  as  we  witness  in  the  emergence  of  new 
challenges.  Our  Organization  must  adopt  a  new 
structure  in  order  to  adapt  to  the  new  international 
environment. New threats have emerged in the form of 
terrorism, maritime piracy, trafficking of all kinds and 
smuggling. Such threats call for new kinds of responses. 
My country welcomes the fact that the Security Council 
is taking those new threats under its consideration. It is 
in  that  regard  that  Gabon  contributed,  when  we  were 
a  member  of  the  Security  Council  in  2010-2011,  to 
adopting a historic resolution on the impact of the HIV/
AIDS  epidemic  on  international  peace  and  security 
(Security Council resolution 1983 (2011)). 
In  that  same  vein,  I  would  like  to  mention  the 
Security  Council  presidential  statement  on  the  illicit 
circulation  of  small  and  light  weapons  in  Central 
Africa (S/PRST/2010/6). On the initiative of Gabon and 
Germany,  the  General  Assembly  adopted,  on  30  July 
2015,  a  resolution  on  illegal  trafficking  in  wildlife 
(resolution 69/314). I am delighted at the large number 
of  sponsors,  which  reflected  an  unprecedented  level 
of  support  from  the  international  community  on  the 
matter.  That  resolution  also  reflected  our  willingness 
to  pool  our  efforts  —  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination — in order to end that phenomenon. I believe 
that  we  will  be  more  effective  if  we  work  together. 
Gabon  would  like  to  encourage  the  Organization, 
particularly the Security Council, to continue efforts to 
overcome those threats, with a view to developing more 
suitable  and  comprehensive  responses  to  the  current 
security challenges.
Several  crises  continue  in  Africa  despite  the 
efforts  of  the  Security  Council,  the  African  Union 
and subregional organizations. In the Central African 
15-29425
7/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
Republic in particular, despite the progress made this 
year,  the  situation  remains  fragile  and  a  cause  for 
concern.  Events  in  recent  days  have  proved  that  the 
stability in the country must be strengthened. We must 
redouble our efforts to move towards a transition. I invite 
the  stakeholders  to  exercise  greater  restraint  and  to 
prioritize dialogue so as not to undermine efforts being 
made to restore peace in the country. The international 
community  must  work  together  to  assist  the  Central 
African Republic in holding elections before the end of 
the year. That country will then be able to put an end to 
the current troubled period in its history.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  situation  between  Israel 
and  Palestine  remains  a  source  of  concern.  The 
international  community  must  become  more  involved 
in efforts to resume the peace negotiations. Resolving 
other, similarly complex situations in other regions of 
the  world  has  proved  that  there  is  no  challenge  that 
cannot be overcome. The establishment of a Palestinian 
State remains the only viable prospect for guaranteeing 
peace  in  the  subregion.  We  must  work  together  to 
ensure that the State of Palestine and Israel can coexist 
in peace and mutual acceptance. 
like 
to  welcome 
I  would  also 
the  positive 
developments this year in the relations between Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America  in  the  wake  of  the 
normalization  agreement  and  the  establishment  of 
diplomatic relations between the two countries. I would 
like to believe that this development will soon result in 
the lifting of the embargo against Cuba.
The nagging question of the ongoing threat posed 
by  the  excessive  accumulation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, including nuclear weapons, can be resolved 
only within the framework of multilateral mechanisms, 
such  as  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  My  country  remains  firmly  committed  to  the 
international system of non-proliferation, as enshrined 
in  the  relevant  instruments,  such  as  the  NPT.  That 
is  why  I  welcome  the  recent  agreement  between  the 
international  community  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran concerning its nuclear programme.
The terrorist threat continues to expand throughout 
the world. Besides the Middle East, Africa has become 
a  new  theatre  of  operations  for  a  number  of  terrorist 
groups.  In  West  Africa  and  Central  Africa,  the  Boko 
Haram sect spreads terror and resists countermeasures 
by  the  countries  on  the  front  line.  In  East  Africa, 
especially in Somalia, Al-Shabaab commita devastating 
atrocities and continues to challenge the African Union 
Mission in Somalia. 
If we are to be more effective in the fight against 
terrorism, we must necessarily strengthen international 
cooperation. We must pool our efforts to address that 
scourge. With good international cooperation we could 
benefit from the increased monitoring of the financial 
flows that fuel the phenomenon. My country reaffirms 
its solidarity with all initiatives to combat international 
terrorism in all its forms.
There has been significant and undeniable progress 
in the area of human rights worldwide. Through United 
Nations  assistance,  political  systems  have  become 
open  and  national  institutions  ensuring  equality  and 
justice for all have been put into place within nations. 
At  the  request  of  the  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  undertook  the  reform  of  the  Commission  on 
Human  Rights  and  transformed  it  into  the  Human 
Rights Council. The goal was to make the body more 
proactive, less politicized and, above all, more effective. 
I welcome the part that my country played in that effort. 
The  support  that  Member  States  gave  the  Gabonese 
presidency  of 
the  Council  enabled  Gabon  make 
significant  progress  towards  achieving  the  objectives 
intended by that reform. I wish to thank Member States 
for that support.
For my country, the improvement of human rights 
must  first  be  considered  from  an  educational,  not 
a  political,  point  of  view.  The  United  Nations  must 
engage in an ongoing dialogue with Member States to 
help them overcome the challenges that they face with 
regard  to  respect  for  human  rights.  Confrontation  in 
that area does not appear to be constructive to me.
The  maintenance  and  consolidation  of  peace 
necessarily  depends  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  That  ambition  also  calls  for  the  reform  of 
peacekeeping  operations.  Gabon  reiterates  its  support 
for  making  the  Security  Council  more  democratic  so 
that  it  involves  all  regions  when  it  developments  and 
implements its decisions. It is from that perspective that 
we reiterate our full commitment to the African position, 
as expressed in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte 
Declaration,  and  to  the  ongoing  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  issue.  The  time  is  opportune  to 
translate  the  reform,  which  has  been  accepted  and 
desired by all, into action.
The  question  of  the  use  of  the  veto  is  an  integral 
part  of  the  Security  Council  reform  process.  My 
8/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
country supports the initiative of France and Mexico on 
the rational use of the veto by the Council’s permanent 
members. 
For several years, peacekeeping operations, which 
are the specialized arm of the Security Council, have 
been the subject of profound restructuring. I welcome 
the  recommendations  of  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping Operations. I am particularly interested 
in  the  recommendations  concerning  the  use  of  new 
technologies  and  improved  communications  between 
local  populations  and  mission  personnel,  on  the  one 
hand,  and  between  the  Secretariat  and  contributing 
countries, on the other. I also support that sustainable 
development  during  the  post-conflict  phase  is  being 
taken into account.
Furthermore, 
to  be  more  effective, 
peacekeeping  missions  should  receive  predictable 
financing  and  clear  mandates  of  limited  duration  so 
as  to  avoid  their  becoming  unduly  long.  In  certain 
circumstances,  the  mandates  must  be  more  robust, 
especially  when  there  is  no  alternative  but  to  impose 
peace. In that case, based on Chapter VII of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  be  able  to  provide 
peacekeeping operations with mandates that authorize 
the military to resort to force to impose peace. We must 
be  able  to  give  peacekeeping  operations  the  mandate 
to create conditions for peace rather than to maintain a 
fragile peace framed by a ceasefire agreement.
in  order 
The  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  another  aspect  of  United  Nations  reform 
desired  by  the  majority  of  Member  States.  I  welcome 
resolution 69/321 on that issue, adopted on 11 September 
2015. I am convinced that the resolution will strengthen 
the Assembly, which is the most representative body of 
the United Nations.
Climate change, another new threat to international 
peace  and  security,  is  increasingly  affecting  our 
ecosystems and the survival of the planet. If we do not act 
today, the consequences will be devastating — floods 
in  some  areas,  droughts  in  others  and  even  breaches 
of  the  peace  in  certain  cases.  My  country  notes  the 
relative  progress  made  in  the  process  of  negotiations 
in Bonn. However, I note that just two months before 
the upcoming twenty-first Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, to be held in Paris, those negotiations are far 
from  attaining  any  preliminary  agreement  before  we 
set  to  work  in  earnest  to  conclude  an  agreement  at 
the  Conference.  The  gravity  of  the  situation  requires 
that we, leaders of the world, be able to courageously 
overcome our differences and make every effort to reach 
agreement in Paris. The climate situation continues to 
deteriorate.
In  the  opinion  of  the  experts,  the  year  2014  was 
the warmest ever, and everything suggests an increase 
of  4°C,  5°C  or  6°C  in  global  warming  if  nothing  is 
done  today.  It  is  therefore  time  for  us  to  assume  our 
responsibilities  and  make  the  right  decisions,  the 
decisions that our peoples expect of us. It is a question of 
the survival of humankind and the legacy we bequeath 
to future generations. Africa and South America, which 
are the two lungs of the planet, have a fundamental role 
to play in the negotiations. That is why I appeal to the 
Heads of State and Government of those two regional 
poles to conduct constant consultations during the Paris 
negotiations.
It is commonly said that climate change has a close 
connection with the migration crisis. The fight against 
climate  change  will  certainly  help  reduce  extreme 
poverty.  The  desired  solutions  involve,  among  other 
things, the development of the energy and water sectors, 
but  they  must  also  include  increased  Government 
investment in such areas as education and professional 
training. Africa needs electricity and water. Africa also 
needs  to  create  jobs  to  improve  the  well-being  of  its 
populations. Providing responses to the climate change 
through the development of a new economic model will 
enable people to remain in their home countries. It is 
therefore  important  that  the  international  community 
mobilize to set up coping mechanisms to mitigate the 
effects of global warming.
Since  the  Copenhagen  Conference,  Gabon  has, 
through  me,  has  continued  to  call  for  the  adoption  of 
a universal and binding agreement on climate change. 
The  upcoming  Paris  Conference  in  December  will 
enable us to achieve that vital objective. To achieve it, 
we must avoid the mistakes made in Copenhagen. The 
crucial nature of the Conference is such that it cannot 
be postponed for another year, because what is at stake 
is the survival of humankind. If we postpone it, it will 
be too late.
Over  the  course  of  recent  decades  the  world  has 
changed at a fast pace, an evolution that unfortunately is 
in contrast with the inflexibility of the ideas, institutions, 
rules and practices that form the framework of global 
governance.  A  new  architecture  whose  legitimacy  is 
15-29425
9/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
founded on the participation of all in the management 
of the affairs of the world is now necessary. The United 
Nations must resolutely embark on the path of reform if 
it wishes to continue to play a strategic and diplomatic 
role at the highest global level.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Now  that  democracy  is  a  cardinal  value,  the 
organization  of  world  affairs  should  no 
longer 
be  based  on  the  precept  of  balance  of  power.  An 
international system based on power, whether balanced 
or  coordinated,  has  the  disadvantage  of  promoting 
hierarchy and the marginalization of small States and 
accentuating  the  absence  of  reciprocity.  On  the  other 
hand,  multilateralism,  of  which  the  United  Nations 
is  the  guarantor,  favours  collective  security  over  the 
balance of power, inclusion over selection.
Seventy  years  after  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  growing  number  of  its  States 
Members shows that the world has definitely opted for 
multilateralism.  Such  intention  necessarily  involves 
an innovative political plan based on the principles of 
equality, inclusion, indivisibility and reciprocity. That 
is  the  primary  goal  of  the  United  Nations.  May  the 
Almighty help us to achieve it.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Gabonese  Republic  for  the  statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara, 
President of the Republic of Paraguay
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Paraguay.
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of  the 
Republic of Paraguay, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Cartes  Jara 
in  Spanish): 
Seventy  years  ago,  on  the  still  smoking  ruins  of  the 
Second World War, the United Nations was born, with 
the  purpose  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security  and  promoting  cooperation  among  all  the 
nations of the world. The Republic of Paraguay was one 
of the 51 States that signed the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  has  become  a  historic  contribution  to 
the international community. For Paraguay, the right to 
equality and respect for sovereignty among States, both 
large  and  small,  justifies  the  reasonable  hope  for  the 
full strengthening of the United Nations.
I  express  my  best  wishes  to  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  the  successful  conduct 
of  proceedings  at  the  current  session.  I  would  also 
like  to  express  my  singular  appreciation  for  the  work 
of  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  whom  we  had  the  honour  to 
receive  in  my  country  in  February.  His  visit  further 
strengthened  our  connections  with,  and  commitment 
to,  the  Organization  and  multilateralism.  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  to  the  Secretary-General  my 
gratitude  for  recognizing  the  work  and  results  of  our 
Government’s  fight  against  poverty  and  expressing 
his  appreciation  of  the  abundant  clean  and  renewable 
energy that Paraguay is blessed with.
The strengthening of the Organization should have 
as its specific goal the building of a truly fair and caring 
world in which human dignity is universal. That means 
rectifying the inequities and inequalities that still cast 
a shadow on the world order, a feat whose realization 
will  depend  on  the  extent  to  which  international  law 
is complied with and the dream of a peaceful era and 
well-being shared among all our nations is fulfilled.
With regard to Paraguay, the main objective of our 
Government is to reduce poverty in the short term in 
the context of a State policy aimed at its eradication. To 
that end, we are maintaining and increasing the scope 
of  our  social  programmes,  especially  those  focusing 
on  extreme  poverty  and  providing  conditions-based 
assistance. We rely on an arsenal of programmes that 
provide opportunities, employment and decent housing 
and  ensure  respect,  equity  and  access  to  education, 
health  and  high-quality  utilities  as  we  wage  our 
unceasing  battle  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty  in  our 
country.  These  programmes  provide  comprehensive 
and permanent solutions that enable people to become 
independent agents and develop their full potential.
We  seek  inclusive  economic  growth  for  our 
country,  so  that  progress  reaches  all  Paraguayans. 
10/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
We are encouraged by the fact that Paraguay is one of 
the  countries  with  the  highest  economic  growth  rates 
in the region. That has been achieved by maintaining 
strict fiscal discipline and by improving our production 
capacity and competitiveness. To the added value of our 
raw materials, which requires domestic and international 
investments,  we  are  exponentially  adding  that  of  the 
construction  industry,  which  is  rapidly  changing  the 
profile of our cities. Similarly, we aim to expand and 
modernize our infrastructure in the conviction that by 
transforming the country, we are reducing poverty. 
We  consistently  uphold  the  importance  of  young 
people. Paraguay is a young country; 75 per cent of its 
population is below 40 years old. That represents a great 
deal  of  human  capital.  I  welcome  the  enthusiasm  of 
young people, in particular Paraguayan students, who 
in  recent  days  made  a  united  appeal  for  transparency 
in  public  administration  and  for  quality  education  in 
Paraguay. We have confidence in the immense potential 
of our youth, and we firmly believe in the importance 
of access to high-quality education if we are to achieve 
the full progress of our nation. That is why we created 
a  scholarship  programme,  the  first  phase  of  which 
will allow 1,500 Paraguayan professionals to complete 
master’s degrees and doctorates in the best universities 
around the world.
On  17  September,  our  Government,  which  is 
committed to transparency and to fighting corruption 
and its corrosive effects on the foundations of society, 
enacted the instrument regulating the law on free access 
to  public  information  and  government  transparency, 
which allows all citizens to exercise their constitutional 
right  to  be  informed.  We  are  promoting  a  culture  of 
transparency  and,  from  the  beginning  of  our  term  of 
office, we have affirmed that what is public should be 
in the public domain. 
Those national efforts will not be enough without 
international policies that promote effective cooperation, 
fair-minded exchanges and adequate complementarity 
among countries and regions. That triad — cooperation, 
exchange and complementarity — urgently requires a 
new  paradigm,  which  the  United  Nations  should  help 
in creating. We are living in the age of globalization. 
A few keystrokes and, thanks to technology, the whole 
world is within range. Almost instantly, we are aware of 
what is happening halfway across the world. Moreover, 
technology affects us directly and personally. We live 
connected. 
Within  that  context,  how  does  one  board  the 
development  train?  The  twenty-first  century  society 
requires a key asset: human skills. The new challenges 
are meant for qualified individuals, and they are such that 
fitness for survival is in direct proportion to the degree 
of one’s real and effective academic training. Following 
the  political  and  industrial  revolutions  and,  together 
with globalization, the knowledge revolution has taken 
place.  This  means  that  the  human  element  remains 
the  most  important  and  essential  resource,  provided 
that  people  are  sufficiently  trained.  Education  is 
the  key.  Therefore,  it  is  imperative  that  UNESCO  be 
strengthened. Developed countries should be driven by 
a sense of fairness and moral obligation to increase their 
contributions  to  its  financing.  An  excellent  education 
and  scientific  research  should  not  be  the  preserve  of 
some countries, but rather should be a universal public 
good.
We  witness  with  great  concern  today  a  huge  and 
endless  exodus  of  families  fleeing  conflicts.  I  am 
referring to our brothers in Syria and in other countries 
faced with the violence of radical and intolerant groups. 
We  cannot  turn  our  backs  on  this  current  human 
tragedy.  We  call  on  the  Organization  to  appeal  to 
Member States, in particular the States in the affected 
region,  to  adopt  the  necessary  measures  in  favour  of 
this extremely vulnerable sector of civil society.
Paraguay reaffirms that disarmament, non-proliferation 
and  arms  control  are  essential  factors  for  international 
peace  and  security  and  provide  the  guarantee  that  the 
most  vulnerable  countries  need  in  order  to  ensure 
sustainable economic and social development. 
We  thank  the  member  States  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  the  confidence  they  have 
shown  in  Paraguay  by  unanimously  electing  it  to  the 
Board of Governors. As a Governor, we will act with 
absolute  impartiality  and  balance  in  promoting  and 
ensuring the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Another major issue of concern is the preservation 
of  the  environment.  Paraguay,  like  many  developing 
countries,  gives  priority  in  its  national  policies  to 
the  preservation  of  the  integrity  and  diversity  of  the 
natural legacy bequeathed to us by our ancestors. We 
are  aware  of  the  immense  responsibility  incumbent 
upon humankind to safeguard the resources on which 
its  existence  depends.  It  is  with  this  awareness  and 
commitment  that  Paraguay  encourages  the  rational 
management of natural resources and promotes the use 
15-29425
11/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
of renewable sources of clean energy, in harmony with 
nature and in pursuit of development.
and 
economic, 
distributional 
The  whole  world  heard  the  urgent  call  of  His 
Holiness Pope Francis, which was repeated last Friday 
in  the  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.3).  He  appealed  to  us 
to  protect  our  common  home,  to  engage  in  urgent 
discussions on how we intend to build the future of the 
planet and to unite the whole human family in pursuit 
of  sustainable  and  comprehensive  development.  In  a 
masterly  fashion,  the  Holy  Father  described  climate 
change  as  a  global  issue  with  major  environmental, 
social, 
political 
dimensions,  characterizing  it  as  a  current  challenge 
for  humankind  and  one  whose  worst  impacts  would 
probably  be  felt  in  the  developing  countries  over  the 
coming decades. He went on to say that environmental 
and social deterioration had the greatest impact on the 
weakest  of  the  planet,  and  that  this  inequity  affects 
entire countries as well as individuals, requiring us to 
think about the issue of ethics in international relations. 
In  preparation  for  the  next  session  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, scheduled for later this 
year in Paris, we must redouble our efforts with a view 
to making serious political commitments to mitigating, 
alleviating and reversing the devastating consequences 
of climate change.
Being a landlocked developing country, as Paraguay 
is, has some adverse effects. To address that situation, 
we  are  proposing,  together  with  32  other  landlocked 
developing  countries, 
the  more  developed 
economies accord us special and differential treatment, 
including  the  removal  of  high  tariffs  and  non-tariff 
barriers, thereby enabling us to be more competitive.
that 
the 
True 
integration  also  entails 
transfer  of 
knowledge  and  capital  investment  and  a  balance  in 
terms  of  trade  and  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties. 
The  reduction  of  asymmetries  depends  on  economic, 
social and cultural integration, with a view to a common 
destiny,  not  on  draconian  policies  in  which  weaker 
countries have to bear the brunt of the burden.
Democracy is a political system in expansion, and 
it  is  based  on  the  indivisible  principles  of  equality, 
freedom  and  sovereignty.  If  we  want  democracy  to 
prevail in our own countries, it is only to be expected 
that  we  would  also  want  to  prevail  at  the  United 
Nations.  We  must  aim  at  ensuring  that  democracy, 
equity  and  geographical  representation  prevail  in 
its  various  organs.  To  that  end,  Paraguay  supports 
a  reform  of  the  Organization  that  would  strengthen 
the  General  Assembly,  the  most  representative  organ 
within the Organization, and restore to it its legitimate 
powers, which must be interdependent with those of the 
Security Council, in accordance with the terms of the 
1945 Charter. 
Paraguay 
interest 
developments with regard to the reform and expansion 
of the Security Council. We believe that it is necessary 
to improve the Council’s working methods and to make 
its  management  more  transparent,  and  that  the  views 
and  ideas  of  non-members  of  the  Council  on  issues 
related  to  international  peace  and  security  that  will 
undoubtedly have an impact on them should be heard.
following  with  great 
is 
Paraguay  welcomes  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to 
reduce tension across the Taiwan Strait, efforts which 
have contributed greatly to ensuring peace and stability 
in East Asia. Our Government advocates continuing the 
pragmatic dialogue and mutually beneficial interaction 
between  both  sides  of  the  Strait,  parties  that  are  also 
recognized by the international community.
Similarly,  Paraguay  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
supporting the peace process in the sister Republic of 
Colombia,  initiated  by  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, and hopes that the conflict, which has claimed 
thousands of innocent lives, will soon be resolved. 
We welcome the agreement reached on 23 September 
in  Havana.  It  signals  an  important  step  towards 
achieving the long-awaited peace in that sisterly nation, 
which is linked to my country by honourable historical 
traditions.
The promotion of human rights is a priority issue 
if  we  are  to  move  towards  a  more  balanced,  fair  and 
dignified  world.  For  us,  the  rights  to  freedom,  free 
assembly,  human  integrity  and  quality  of  life  are 
essential.  So  long  as  there  is  discrimination,  whether 
it  be  racial,  religious,  political  or  gender-based,  our 
human rights record will be deficient. It is in the light 
of  this  vision  that  Paraguay  is  becoming  a  first-time 
member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  where  it  is  to 
be  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents.  Owing  to  the  social 
dimension that we give to these inalienable rights, we 
also aspire to join the Economic and Social Council for 
the period 2019-2021.
Paraguay,  with 
its  preponderance  of  young 
people,  is  inspired  to  vigorously  promote  their  active 
12/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
participation  in  building  a  more  just  and  free  society 
and the protection of the rights of children and women.
Fate  has  given  us  the  huge  responsibility  of 
governing  and  representing  our  nations  at  a  time 
when  international  solidarity  has  become  imperative. 
Paraguay  brings  from  the  beating  heart  of  America 
its continued and caring commitment to the beautiful 
70-year-old dream of strengthening peace and security 
in the world. Today’s reality also calls upon us, more 
than ever before, to protect our common home — our 
damaged and mistreated planet. Let us fully meet this 
challenge so that we can bequeath to future generations 
a  world  at  peace  that  is  fairer,  healthier  and  more 
inclusive and is a better place to live.
May God bless us all. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Paraguay for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya 
Kenyatta, 
President 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
and Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya.
Uhuru 
Mr. 
and 
Commander- in -Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Uhuru 
Kenyatta,  President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the 
Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
of the objectives that he has set. Kenya fully supports 
his leadership and will constructively engage with him 
as we strive to realize those objectives.
Seventy years ago, in the aftermath of the Second 
World  War,  the  United  Nations  was  established  with 
the  objective  of  saving  succeeding  generations  from 
the recurrence of war. Thereafter, the world took up the 
challenge  of  defeating  colonialism  and  its  ideologies. 
That era was also seen as the precursor to greater global 
equality, increased social equity and the beginning of 
the fight against mass poverty. It also led to the growth 
of democracy and freedom.
Today, the seventieth anniversary of the founding 
of  the  United  Nations  is  being  celebrated  against  a 
backdrop of numerous global challenges. The adverse 
effects of globalization, the debilitating consequences 
of  the  world  economic  and  financial  crisis  and  the 
negative  effects  of  climate  change  have  increased 
the  vulnerability  of  the  global  economy  and  affected 
the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  varying 
degrees. Today, as in the past 70 years, the challenges 
faced  by  developing  countries,  together  with  their 
aspirations, including peace and security, development, 
the  protection  of  human 
rights,  environmental 
conservation and global governance, remain as real and 
relevant as ever. They are expected to continue to be the 
primary concerns for a number of Member States over 
the coming years.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security continues to face increasing challenges owing 
to  the  growing  intensity  and  complexity  of  conflicts 
in the Middle East and Africa, especially in the Great 
Lakes  region,  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Sahel.  The 
continuing  grave  security  situation  in  Eastern  Africa 
and  further  afield  is  of  particular  concern  to  Kenya, 
which  has  continued  to  invest  millions  of  dollars  in 
the maintenance of regional peace and security, while 
many  Kenyans  have  lost  their  lives  in  the  quest  for 
peace. We therefore urge the international community, 
in  particular  the  Security  Council,  to  shoulder  its 
responsibilities in such a way as to make a direct impact 
in the resolution of those conflicts. 
President  Kenyatta:  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to 
be  addressing  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session. Let me begin by congratulating the President 
on his election at this historic session. We are confident 
that his vast diplomatic experience will enable him to 
steer the proceedings and contribute to the achievement 
There is a need to promote peaceful and inclusive 
societies for sustainable development, to provide access 
to justice for all and to build effective, accountable and 
inclusive  institutions  at  all  levels,  as  stated  in  Goal 
16  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  in  order  to 
realize sustainable peace all over the world.
15-29425
13/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
Global  terrorism  and  violent  extremism  remain  a 
major threat not only to the Republic of Kenya, but also 
to the entire world. To date, Al-Shabaab terrorists have 
been targeting the civilian population in Kenya on the 
pretext that Kenya has deployed its troops in Somalia. 
The  continued  threat  by  Al-Shabaab  has  had  a  major 
impact  on  Kenya’s  national  security  and  economy  in 
general.  Kenya  therefore  calls  upon  the  international 
community  to  take  strong  and  enforceable  action  in 
combating  Al-Shabaab,  together  with  other  terrorist 
groups,  including  foreign  fighters.  At  the  same  time, 
we  must  collectively  address  the  radicalization  of 
youth as the pipeline for global terrorism, including its 
financing  at  the  grass-roots  level,  where  most  young 
people are radicalized.
Somalia is an important neighbour of Kenya. Kenya 
and Somalia share strong historical, cultural and trading 
ties that have benefited both societies. Somalia remains 
of major concern to the international community, and 
to  Kenya  in  particular,  owing  to  long-standing  crises 
and the security situation, which remains a grave threat 
to  peace  and  security  in  the  East  Africa  region  and 
throughout  the  Horn  of  Africa.  While  Al-Shabaab’s 
capacity  to  launch  terrorist  acts  inside  Somalia  has 
greatly diminished owing to the presence of the African 
Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and its troops, 
Al-Shabaab’s  continued  presence  in  Somalia  has  a 
negative impact on the security, stability and prosperity 
of that country. The Kenya Defence Forces, within the 
framework of AMISOM, will continue working closely 
with the Somali National Army. 
In  spite  of  the  threat  posed  by  Al-Shabaab  to 
Kenya,  we  will  continue  to  stand  firm  in  support  of 
the  Somali  Government  and  the  people  of  Somalia. 
We  therefore  call  on  the  international  community  to 
support the Federal Government of Somalia in securing 
its territory. We remain committed, together with other 
international  partners,  to  providing  the  necessary 
support  to  the  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  in 
implementing its Vision 2016.
Kenya 
is  also  preocupied  by 
the  emerging 
governance  and  humanitarian  crisis  in  South  Sudan 
in the aftermath of the political crisis that occurred in 
2013.  The  crisis  in  South  Sudan  remains  an  issue  of 
great concern not only to Kenya, but to the region of the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) 
and  to  the  larger  international  community.  Kenya 
welcomes the recently signed peace treaty, calls upon 
both parties to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict 
and  urges  the  international  community,  especially 
the  United  Nations,  to  support  the  IGAD-Plus  peace 
process  and  other  initiatives  geared  to  the  realization 
of a comprehensive, just and sustainable peace in South 
Sudan. That should be achieved through the enforcement 
of the peace and security arrangements, support for the 
institutions of governance and democracy, support for 
the demilitarization of South Sudan and a response to 
the current humanitarian crisis. South Sudan needs to 
find the path of peace, development and reconstruction, 
and that needs to happen urgently.
At the beginning of this millennium we adopted the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Since  then, 
the MDGs have galvanized and catalysed international 
action in support of eradicating poverty and realizing 
other social targets. The MDGs demonstrated that a set 
of  development  goals  and  targets  could  be  important 
drivers  of  change. 
successfully 
implemented, the MDGs have had a positive impact on 
the lives of millions of people. But, at best, the results 
have been uneven. Many developing countries remain 
off  track  and  have  not  been  able  to  meet  their  2015 
deadline.
Indeed,  where 
the  2030  Agenda 
It was therefore necessary to begin a global process 
to shape a new development agenda, with the starting 
point being the unfinished business of the MDGs and 
the  creation  of  a  truly  transformative  and  inclusive 
development agenda as was agreed at the 2012 United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  The  new  Agenda  —  Transforming 
our  world: 
for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  —  therefore  seeks  to 
address  transformative  challenges  that  cut  across 
the  social,  economic  and  environmental  dimensions 
of  development.  But  transformative  and  inclusive 
development  does  not  mean  that  we  can  abandon  our 
responsibility  to  support  the  countries  in  the  greatest 
need. On the contrary, as the international community, 
we must redouble our efforts to ensure that no one is 
left behind and that no country is left behind.
The  year  2015  will  be  remembered  in  history  as 
the time when it was decided at important conferences 
that the world should be on a sustainable development 
path.  These  began  with  the  third  World  Conference 
on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  in  March,  then  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
in  July,  and  the  General  Assembly,  with  its  very 
recent  adoption  of  the  new  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development 
(resolution  70/1),  whose  ambitious 
14/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
outcome has put us on a a new sustainable development 
path, with a new set of Goals. The forthcoming Paris 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is 
also expected to reach an inclusive, balanced, ambitious 
and acceptable climate change agreement, including its 
financing, that, we hope, will this time turn plans into 
actions. The Paris Conference must succeed; failure in 
this case cannot be an option. 
The 
third  United  Nations  World  Conference 
on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  held  in  Sendai,  Japan, 
underscored  the  importance  of  promoting  efforts  to 
reduce  disaster  risks  at  the  international  and  regional 
levels, as well as at the national and local levels. The 
Conference  noted  that  the  cost  of  addressing  disaster 
risk remained a huge burden to many countries. As a 
result, efforts to address poverty eradication and food 
security, among other challenges, have continued to be 
undermined. 
Going  forward,  the  Conference  agreed  that  it 
would be important to mitigate the risks of disaster by 
implementing resilience measures. Member States would 
have to undertake to reduce disaster losses in terms of 
lives and the social, economic and environmental assets 
of  communities.  The  Conference  called  for  the  full 
commitment and involvement of all actors concerned, 
in  particular  Governments,  regional  and  international 
organizations  and  civil  society,  including  volunteers, 
the private sector and the scientific community.
The  Conference  also  called  on  Governments  to 
mobilize  the  required  means  of  implementation  in 
order to address disaster risk reduction, which involves 
building  capacities,  especially  in  defining  risk  and 
mainstreaming risk pricing, in order to inform priorities 
in  public  expenditures.  For  effective  implementation, 
capacity-building  should  cover  enhanced  global  risk 
analysis  and  extend  to  local  authorities  and  others 
at  the  subnational  level.  In  order  to  address  risk 
reduction, sound follow-up mechanism for monitoring 
and accountability are needed. We are glad to note that 
disaster  risk  reduction  is  part  of  the  new  Sustainable 
Development Agenda.
At the third International Conference on Financing 
for  Development,  held  in  July  in  Addis  Ababa, 
important decisions were reached to follow up on the 
commitments  made  in  Monterrey  and  Doha  and  to 
further  strengthen  the  financing  of  the  sustainable 
development  framework.  The  Conference  outcome 
document focused on both financial and non-financial 
means  of  implementation.  The  required  resources 
will  have  to  be  obtained  through  domestic  resource 
mobilization,  domestic  and 
international  private 
finance,  business  finance  and  international  public 
finance, which includes official development assistance 
(ODA).
the  resources  needed 
However, domestic resource mobilization remains 
key 
to  finance 
in  raising 
development. That means addressing fiscal constraints 
in  the  available  fiscal  space  and  strengthening  the 
capacities of tax authorities. The non-financial means, 
which  include  international  trade  as  an  engine  of 
development, debt and debt sustainability, and the taking 
on  of  system,ic  issues,  have  also  to  be  implemented. 
This  being  said,  the  role  of  ODA  remains  key  to 
upholding the credibility of international development 
cooperation. It is therefore imperative that development 
partners  continue  to  redouble  their  efforts  to  support 
and finance programmes in developing countries.
Kenya  places  great 
importance  on  domestic 
resource  mobilization  to  cover  both  its  recurrent 
and  its  development  commitments.  We  have  noted 
the  importance  of  public  international  finance  as  a 
complement to domestic public resources, and we have 
therefore  put  in  place  a  national  external  resources 
policy  with  emphasis  on  sourcing  concessional 
or  semi-concessional  support  for  key  projects.  To 
effectively coordinate the architecture for the delivery 
of  external  aid,  we  have  put  in  place  initiatives  to 
fully  implement  the  2005  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid 
Effectiveness.  Kenya  therefore  remains  committed  to 
adopting appropriate follow-up and review mechanisms, 
which will ensure that all the means of implementation 
are reviewed periodically. Going forward, we need to 
address  capacity  deficits  in  key  institutions,  such  as 
our national statistical offices, in order to enable them 
to capture the timely and reliable data required for the 
follow-up and review process.
I wish to express my appreciation to the Secretary-
General  for  the  successful  outcome  of  the  Summit 
on  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  A  few  days 
ago, we adopted a bold, ambitious and transformative 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  for  the  next  15 
years. This pact was a culmination of more than three 
years  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  began 
with  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development.  We  are  glad  to  note  that  the  Agenda 
recognizes  as  its  overarching  goal  ending  poverty 
15-29425
15/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
in  all  its  forms  everywhere.  The  Goals  and  targets 
set  by  the  Agenda  are  universal  and  will  apply  to  all 
countries, while different realities and capabilities are 
nevertheless recognized.
This  new  Agenda  acknowledges  that  sustainable 
development  cannot  be  realized  without  peace  and 
security; at the same time, peace and security will be 
at  risk  without  sustainable  development.  That  calls 
for  building  peaceful,  inclusive  and  well-governed 
societies,  with  responsive  institutions  as  the  basis 
for  shared  prosperity.  Fundamentally,  the  Agenda 
recognizes  that  we  cannot  reach  our  development 
goals  without  addressing  human  rights  and  complex 
humanitarian issues at the same time. 
The  Agenda  addresses  the  requirements  for  all 
humankind  to  be  able  to  live  decent  lives,  free  from 
poverty,  hunger  and  inequality,  with  all  men  and 
women,  girls  and  boys,  able  to  develop  their  full 
potential.  It  commits  all  of  us  to  being  responsible 
global citizens, caring for the less fortunate and for our 
planet’s  ecosystem  and  making  action  commitments 
regarding the climate, on which all life depends. It is 
important  to  note  that  the  Agenda  received  valuable 
inputs from civil society, the private sector, academia 
and parliamentarians, as well as from millions of people 
from every corner of the world who shared their vision 
of the world we want.
Kenya  is  proud  and  honoured  to  have  played  an 
important  role  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
process  by  co-chairing  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable Development Goals and by co-facilitating 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda. It is now the responsibility of all 
countries to implement this new universal development 
Agenda.  The  relevant  means  for  achieving  this  have 
been  developed  and  integrated  into  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  to  be  complemented  by  the 
outcome  of  the  third  International  Conference  on 
Financing for Development, to which I referred earlier. 
Implementation  and  follow-up  will  be  critical.  We 
will therefore need all partners on board to make it a 
success.
To  complete  our  new  path 
to  sustainable 
development,  all  of  us  in  Kenya  look  forward  to  the 
twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, to be held in Paris in November and 
December. COP21 is a crucial conference, during which 
global leaders will need the political will to reach the 
expected  outcome  that  will  enable  the  Conference  to 
achieve a new international agreement on climate that 
is applicable to all countries, with the aim of keeping 
global warming below 2°C. We therefore commend the 
efforts of France and all others in facilitating the United 
Nations  search  for  consensus  in  climate  negotiations. 
Similarly, Kenya will continue to constructively engage 
to ensure that we reach a meaningful universal climate 
change  agreement  that  takes  into  account  the  issues 
affecting the developing world.
Kenya  is  happy  to  note  that  the  efforts  to  deepen 
our  regional  integration  within  the  East  African 
Community  continue  to  bear  fruit.  The  East  African 
Community remains one of the fastest-growing regional 
integration bodies and we hope this will continue. The 
East African Community is committed to widening and 
deepening cooperation among partner States in political, 
economic and social fields for our mutual benefit. Over 
the years, the East African Community has expanded 
its  membership  from  three  founding  partners  to  five, 
which are now Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and 
Uganda. This signifies a wider market that bears great 
strategic and geopolitical significance and prospects for 
a renewed and reinvigorated East African Community.
Much  progress  has  been  made  and  recorded  in 
the  East  African  Community  since  the  establishment 
of  the  East  African  Customs  Union  in  2005.  We  are 
glad that much more progress continues to be recorded 
since the establishment of the Common Market in 2010. 
The  Protocol  Establishing  the  East  African  Monetary 
Union is already in place and its implementation under 
way. We remain committed to fast-tracking the process 
toan East African federation as a demonstration of the 
determination of the people of East Africa to construct 
a powerful and sustainable East African economic and 
political bloc.
Mr. Patiño Aroca (Ecuador), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Looking into the future, the new 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development has brought a new dawn for 
global  development.  We  must  collectively  avoid  the 
pitfalls  of  the  past  70  years.  We  must,  as  a  matter  of 
priority,  focus  all  efforts  towards  ending  poverty  and 
promoting  sustainable  peace  and  security.  We  should 
remain  ambitious,  yet  at  the  same  time  practical,  in 
order to bring real change to the lives of the poor around 
the world, as well as to guarantee the sustainability of 
our planet.
16/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
Kenya  will  remain  robust  in  the  implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We 
will build on our experience from the implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  At 
the  same  time,  Kenya  will  continue  to  pay  special 
attention 
to  fundamental  sustainable  development 
issues  that  were  previously  left  out  of  the  MDG 
framework,  especially  strengthening  the  means  of 
implementation  and  revitalizing  global  partners  for 
sustainable  development,  as  well  as  the  promotion  of 
peaceful and inclusive societies, which remains critical 
to  the  realization  of  peace,  security  and  sustainable 
development.
In  conclusion,  I  assure  the  Assembly  that  Kenya 
remains committed to continuing to play its rightful role 
in the global community, remain an anchor of peace and 
security in our region, and foster regional, continental 
and  global  cooperation  for  accelerated  economic  and 
social development and prosperity for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence 
Forces  of  the  Republic  of  Kenya  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Uhuru 
President 
Kenyatta, 
Mr. 
and 
Commander- in- Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Macky Sall, President of the 
Republic of Senegal
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Senegal.
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Sall (spoke in French): Senegal, through 
me, warmly congratulates the President and wishes him 
every  success  in  conducting  the  work  of  this  session. 
We  thank  his  Ugandan  predecessor  for  his  service  to 
the Assembly.
Seventy years after the creation of our Organization, 
we  are  walking  in  the  footsteps  of  the  founding 
fathers  to  renew  our  collective  faith  in  the  ideals  of 
peace,  security,  development  and  respect  for  human 
rights.  Those  values  inspire  the  principal  mission  of 
the  Organization  of  preserving  the  world  from  the 
scourge of war, creating the conditions necessary to the 
maintenance of justice, promoting social progress and 
ensuring a better standard of living in greater freedom.
Seventy years later, that mission has become more 
burdensome  and  our  world  increasingly  complex. 
Seventy years on, peace, which is not only the absence 
of  war,  but  also  development  and  human  security, 
remains threatened by extreme poverty, hunger, disease 
and the unprecedented degradation of the environment.
It is Senegal’s hope that the Paris Cl;imate Change 
Conference  will  be  successful  and  adopt  binding 
commitments 
to  controlling  global  warming  and 
mobilizing  adequate  financial  resources  and  transfers 
of environmentally friendly technologies.
We  face  other  changes,  because  the  world  is 
still  struggling  to  overcome  the  hideous  mask  of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  violent 
extremism. Human beings are being targeted, rejected 
and attacked due merely to the color of their skin, their 
beliefs  or  social  background.  Migrant  workers  are 
being discriminated against and excluded from public 
policies, even though they are contributing by the sweat 
of their brow to the prosperity of their host country. No 
country can be indifferent to the tragedy of war.
As  a  welcoming  and  hospitable  country,  Senegal 
appeals  for  greater  openness  and  generosity  for 
migrants. These are individuals who have been forced 
to leave their countries in a quest to save their lives. 
Indeed, we face many urgent problems. Nonetheless, 
the promise of a better world is still within our reach, 
and we can achieve it if we accept that this is a plural 
world,  that  all  cultures  and  civilizations  are  equal  in 
dignity and that change is the main dynamic that shapes 
the course of history.
Over  the  years,  142  countries  have  joined  the 
51 founding Members of the Organization. Through the 
wealth of their contributions and the diversity of their 
needs, Member States confer an unequalled degree of 
universality upon the United Nations system. The world 
in 2015 is therefore not the same as the world of 1945, 
and if we wish to keep the promises made in the Charter 
of the United Nations, we must abandon our old ways of 
15-29425
17/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
doing business. Common sense requires that we change 
our vision of the present and of the future. That is what 
will ensure that our Organization will remain faithful 
to its vocation as the unique hub where our efforts can 
work together towards a common end.
It  makes  sense  to  enlarge  the  Security  Council 
to  ensure  that  it  reflects  these  new  realities  that  we 
all  represent  here.  Senegal,  which  is  a  candidate 
this  year  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Council, 
reasserts  its  commitment  to  the  African  Common 
Position  on  Security  Council  reform,  in  line  with  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus.  It  makes  sense  to  reform  global 
economic  and  financial  governance  through  a  more 
equitable representation of the new realities and greater 
flexibility  with  regard  to  access  to  credit,  to  put  an 
end to the paradox of resources that are available but 
not  accessible.  In  our  mining  industries,  it  makes 
sense to establish, along with transparency, codes and 
contracts  that  are  fairer  and  more  equitable,  reward 
and  protect  the  investor  and  preserve  the  interests  of 
States and local populations. It makes sense to combat 
more vigorously illicit financial flows that cost Africa 
between $30 billion and $60 billion per year — a loss 
that  is  more  than  official  development  assistance.  If 
Africa  were  to  receive  fair  payment  for  its  resources 
and  recover  the  equivalent  of  17  per  cent  of  those 
assets  that  have  been  fraudulently  invested  abroad,  it 
could settle the entirety of its debt and finance its own 
development needs.
As 
the  current  President  of 
the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  I 
am  pleased  to  say  that  our  subregion  has  continued 
on  the  path  of  progress.  Economic  growth  remains 
above  the  global  average  and  our  democracy,  in  spite 
of  everything,  is  being  consolidated.  We  are  also 
determined to pursue our efforts for peace and stability. 
I  reiterate  the  unfailing  commitment  of  ECOWAS  to 
the Peace Agreement in Mali, while respecting national 
unity  and  the  territorial  integrity  of  the  country,  and 
to a successful transition in Burkina Faso. I call upon 
the international community and the Security Council 
in particular, to remain attentive to Burkina Faso. We 
also support Nigeria and other countries in their fight 
against Boko Haram. We support stable institutions in 
Guinea-Bissau. We will also continue to work together 
to eradicate the remnants of the Ebola virus in affected 
countries. As Chair of the Oslo Group on foreign policy 
and  global  health,  Senegal  will  hold  consultations 
during this session to draw the lessons from this health 
crisis.
As  we  move  forward  on  the  path  of  peace,  we 
must strive towards a comprehensive, fair and lasting 
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict pursuant to 
the  vision  of  two  independent  States  living  in  peace 
within  secure  and  internationally  recognized  borders. 
Throughout  the  world,  peace  is  our  common  good. 
Along  with  democracy,  human  rights  and  cultural 
diversity, it is the corpus of values of the International 
Organization of La Francophonie, of which Senegal is 
currently  holding  the  presidency.  Our  commitment  to 
these  ideals  makes  Senegal  the  seventh-largest  troop 
contributor  to  peacekeeping  operations  among  128 
countries.  It  has  more  than  3,600  troops  deployed  in 
eight missions.
Last year, the Security Council established a medal 
in memory of my compatriot, the late Captain Mbaye 
Diagne, to honour the men and women who, in serving 
peace,  have  demonstrated  exceptional  courage.  As 
a  member  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
for  Rwanda,  Captain  Diagne  was  killed  on  31  May 
1994 when a shell exploded as he was returning from 
one  of  his  many  rescue  missions  in  the  field.  He  was 
just  36  years  old  and  was  ready  to  go  home.  Senegal 
and  his  family  are  proud  that  his  memory  will  be 
honoured in this manner. We have a wise saying in my 
country — man alone can save man — that heightens 
our sense of human solidarity and fraternity. May the 
spirit of Captain Mbaye Diagne inspire our joint march 
towards  a  better  world  of  peace  that  is  more  just  and 
welcoming for everyone.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Senegal for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President 
of the Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
18/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic 
of Mali, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Keita  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf 
of  the  Malian  delegation,  I  would  first  like  to 
warmly  congratulate  the  President  on  his  accession 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth  session.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  his 
election  on  15  June  not  only  recognized  his  qualities 
as  an  experienced  diplomat  but  was  also  a  tribute  to 
his  country,  the  Kingdom  of  Denmark,  which  has 
an  excellent  relationship  with  my  country  that  is 
cooperative  in  every  way.  I  would  like  to  assure  him 
that my delegation is completely at his disposal in his 
efforts to achieve full success for his mandate.
I would also like to express our great appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  our  brother  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of 
Uganda,  for  his  outstanding  and  effective  conduct  of 
the work of the preceding session. In the same spirit, I 
would like to pay tribute to Mr. Ban Ki-moon, the eighth 
Secretary-General, for his dedication and unwavering 
commitment to peace and security.
Before going any further, I, like others before me, 
would like to salute the memory of the victims of the 
disaster  in  Mina,  Saudi  Arabia,  from  Mali  and  other 
countries  in  the  Islamic  community.  In  these  tragic 
circumstances, on behalf of the people of Mali, I would 
like to express my deepest condolences to the families 
of the victims and wish the injured a speedy recovery.
We  sometimes  see  coincidences  in  the  history  of 
peoples  and  institutions.  One  such  is  the  symbolism 
of  today’s  date,  28  September  2015,  which  marks  the 
fifty-fifth anniversary of the admission of my country, 
Mali,  into  the  United  Nations,  pursuant  to  resolution 
1491  (XV),  adopted  by  the  Assembly  at  its  fifteenth 
session,  and  for  that  I  would  like  to  express  my 
profound gratitude to the Republic of Tunisia and to Sri 
Lanka, known then as Ceylon, under the leadership of 
Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike.
Between 28 September 1960 and today, successive 
Governments of Mali have spared no effort to fashion 
a  better  world,  free  of  the  spectres  of  conflict  and 
war,  whose  main  victims  are  women,  children  and 
the  elderly.  Coming  as  I  do  from  Mali,  I  know  of 
what  I  speak.  In  its  continuing  quest  for  peace,  the 
Government  of  Mali,  under  my  authority,  has  always 
preferred  the  path  of  dialogue  to  the  language  of 
arms in the multidimensional crisis that we are in the 
process  of  resolving.  In  that  regard,  the  Government 
of  Mali  has  always  complied  with 
the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  decisions 
and recommendations of the Economic Community of 
West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the  African  Union, 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
It  was  as  part  of  that  dynamic  that  I  took  the 
initiative to engage my Government in the inter-Malian 
negotiations  in  Algiers,  supported  by  international 
mediation  that  included  representatives  of  the  United 
Nations, under the auspices of Algeria. I am happy to 
be  able  to  commend  here  the  personal  commitment 
of  Algeria’s  President,  our  big  brother  Mr.  Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika. After eight months of discussion with our 
brothers  in  the  north  who  had  taken  up  arms,  I  am 
particularly pleased to present the Agreement for Peace 
and Reconciliation in Mali. Arriving at the Agreement 
through the Algiers process has been difficult, but it is 
done. While not a panacea and not without problems, 
the  Agreement  gives  us  a  general  framework  within 
which  we  can  work  towards  a  lasting  and  sustainable 
peace.
This  consensus  peace  Agreement,  which  can 
serve  as  a  general  framework  for  every  Malian  party 
in every aspect of life, is the first in Mali’s history. It 
represents a new social pact for Mali and Malians, and 
a new collective commitment to peace and concord in 
our country. The Agreement has just sealed forever the 
reunion of the children of Mali. It is the result of the 
will  of  all  the  Malian  parties  and  the  commitment  of 
all involved to reaching the stage we are now in, that 
of implementing the Agreement. For us it is a balanced 
compromise  that  takes  into  consideration  all  our 
essential and legitimate concerns, including the issues 
of Mali’s territorial integrity, national sovereignty and 
balanced  development  of  every  region  of  the  country. 
That  is  what  is  most  important  to  us  and  is  what  the 
Agreement grants and guarantees us.
I would also like to express to all those here today 
my  country’s  commitment  and  to  give  our  thanks  for 
everyone’s  assistance.  Few  countries  in  recent  years 
have  been  on  the  receiving  end  of  such  assistance  as 
has  Mali  in  this  stage  of  its  national  reconstruction. 
That  is  why  we  will  not  drag  our  feet.  We  have  our 
Agreement, and we have now created its implementation 
framework, the Comité de suivi de l’accord, put together 
immediately after the signing of the Agreement, which 
has already got down to work. We have taken measures 
15-29425
19/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
to build confidence among all our citizens and to assure 
them of our unflagging commitment to implementing 
peace and build a new Mali. Without peace, we cannot 
succeed. We were elected by the people of Mali, despite 
the grave crisis we have endured, specifically to rebuild 
our country.
I would also like to say that the people of Mali hope 
to  be  supported  in  this  implementation  phase  of  the 
Agreement for Peace. Implementing a peace agreement 
is a delicate business, and it needs support. That is why 
we have scheduled a conference in Paris on 22 October 
to raise funds for the development of Mali. God willing, 
we  will  hold  the  conference  and,  hopefully,  many  of 
our friends here today who have helped us so much will 
come.
For its part, the Government of Mali has developed 
and submitted to the Comité de suivi a comprehensive 
action  plan  for  implementing  the  Agreement  and  an 
emergency plan for the interim period. I should stress 
that  the  Comité  de  suivi  has  warmly  welcomed  that 
approach. However, it is worth pointing out that signing 
the Agreement is not an end in itself but requires that 
we pool all of our efforts to implement it, and that is a 
major challenge that we can rise to, God willing. That is 
why I  repeat my call to come to the conference in Paris 
on 22 October.
The  Government  of  Mali  reiterates  its  call  to 
all  signatory  parties  to  the  Agreement  as  well  as  the 
international  community  to  pool  their  efforts  and 
information to expel from the Sahel and Mali’s national 
territory our common enemy, namely, terrorist groups 
and  narco-jihadists  who  seek  only  to  satisfy  their 
criminal appetites by means of fear and terror.
I  welcome  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2227 (2015), which renewed for the third time 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Mali,  whose 
remarkable work accomplished to date I salute. I assure 
the Mission of my support and assistance for the success 
of  our  shared  mission.  On  the  same  note,  I  want  to 
express the gratitude of the Government of Mali for the 
international mediation led by Algeria, which included 
the United Nations, the African Union, ECOWAS, the 
European  Union,  the  OIC,  Burkina  Faso,  Mauritania, 
the nNiger, Nigeria and Chad. I do not think I have left 
anyone out.
I also welcome the role and the decisive contribution 
of  France  in  Mali  and  all  the  sacrifices  made  in  this 
regard.  I  also  welcome  the  equally  important  role  of 
the United States of America in the peace process. To 
all  the  friendly  nations  and  the  international  partner 
organizations  that  have  expressed  solidarity  vis-à-vis 
Mali  by  sending  us  their  children  or  their  experts  to 
defend the values that form the basis   of our humanity, 
I renew here the sincere thanks of the Malian people. I 
bow reverently — very piously — to the memory of all 
victims, civilian and military, Malian or foreign, fallen 
on the field of honour in Mali for the defence of human 
dignity, freedom and democracy.
I salute and thank UNESCO, under the leadership 
of  our  friend  Irina  Bokova,  for  the  remarkable  work 
accomplished  to  preserve  the  cultural  heritage  in  our 
closed,  revered  city  of  Timbuktu.  The  fate  suffered 
by  the  mausoleums,  which  modern-day  barbarians 
consigned to collective memory, is well known. What 
we saw happen in Palmyra had occurred earlier in Mali, 
together with the terror that the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  has  begun  to  address.  We  welcome  the 
recent decision by the ICC on this new crime.
When  representatives  of  50  nations  signed  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  San  Francisco  on 
26 June 1945 and when Charter entered into force on 
24  October  1945,  many  States  here  today  had  not  yet 
attained  independence.  We  are  pleased  that,  70  years 
later,  the  United  Nations  now  has  193  Members,  all 
committed  to  preserving  the  ideals  of  San  Francisco, 
based  on  the  three  pillars  of  peace  and  security, 
development  and  human  rights.  That  is  why  the 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Mali,  which  I  have  the 
honour to lead, is pleased with the General Assembly’s 
extremely  appropriate  decision  to  make  the  theme  of 
the general debate “The United Nations at 70 — a new 
commitment to action”.
This  theme,  the  choice  of  which  is  of  proven 
relevance,  will  undoubtedly  permit  all  world  leaders 
and  lovers  of  peace,  freedom  and  justice  to  make  an 
objective assessment of the progress the Organization 
has  made  and  to  consider  the  future  with  a  critical 
eye trained on the difficulties encountered in the past, 
particularly  in  areas  where  the  United  Nations  and 
the  international  community  are  called  upon  to  make 
greater efforts to meet current and future challenges.
At  this  time  of  reckoning,  we  welcome  the 
important  progress  made 
the 
provisions of Chapter VI of the Charter on the pacific 
settlement of disputes through negotiation, mediation, 
conciliation,  arbitration,  judicial  settlement,  all  of 
implementing 
in 
20/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
which  have  resulted  in  the  prevention,  management, 
maintenance  and  consolidation  of  peace  in  the  world. 
We also welcome the significant progress achieved in 
the processes of decolonization, disarmament and the 
promotion of human rights. Indeed, we appreciate the 
true value of building agreements under Chapter VIII of 
the Charter, in particular between the Security Council 
and the African Union Peace and Security Council.
While these successes show the ongoing relevance 
of certain principles set forth in the Charter of the United 
Nations, we must recognize that their implementation 
has been made possible thanks to the political will of 
Member States and the effectiveness of the staff of the 
United  Nations  system,  including  peacekeepers,  who 
work  tirelessly,  under  Chapter  VII  to  bring  about  a 
better world. I wish to express to all of them the deep 
gratitude of the Government and the people of Mali.
In a constantly changing world, the United Nations 
is  required  to  adapt  to  new  challenges.  Part  of  the 
latest dynamic will be the implementation of post-2015 
development agenda, entitled “Transforming our world: 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, which 
we recently adopted (resolution 70/1).
A  perfect  example  of  a  country  of  the  Sahel,  my 
country, Mali, has suffered the brunt of the effects of 
climate  change  because  of  the  fragility  of  its  natural 
ecosystem.  The  accretion  of  sand,  the  drying  up  of 
the  Niger  River,  and  the  degradation  of  the  soil  and 
vegetation  cover  with  unsuspected  consequences  are 
prime  illustrations  of  what  we  have  had  to  confront. 
Therefore,  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Mali 
strongly  hope  that  the  conclusions  of  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held in Paris in December, will lead to the conclusion 
of a legally binding agreement for the preservation of 
what remains of our environment.
In  addition  to  this  major  challenge,  there  is  the 
need to promote global economic governance and the 
financing  of  development.  The  results  of  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
held in Addis Ababa in July 2015, offer hope in terms 
of  mobilizing  the  international  community  to  achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals, consistent with the 
Monterrey Consensus of 2002 and the Doha Declaration 
of 2008.
As a landlocked developing country and among the 
least  developed  countries,  Mali  welcomes  debt  relief 
for  heavily  indebted  poor  countries  and  commends 
the countries that have achieved or even exceeded the 
target  threshold  of  setting  aside  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
gross  domestic  product  for  public  aid.  That  is  indeed 
to  be  welcomed.  In  this  regard,  I  reaffirm  from  this 
rostrum  the  recognition  of  my  Government  of  all  the 
generous  donors  who,  in  May  2013  in  Brussels,  were 
willing  to  commit  to  the  economic  recovery  of  Mali, 
through  pledges  totalling  €3.5  billion.  I  would  also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  countries  that 
have not yet done so to keep their commitments with a 
view to the effective mobilization of the pledged sums, 
because  sometimes  the  distance  between  the  cup  and 
the lip is great.
With respect to the sources of innovative financing, 
the  Government  of  Mali  supports  and  strongly 
encourages  the  UNITLIFE  initiative  based  on  the 
simple principle of assigning a tiny part of the immense 
wealth created by the use and exploitation of extractive 
resources  in  Africa  to  the  fight  against  malnutrition, 
so  that  the  globalization  of  solidarity  responds  to  the 
globalization  of  the  economy.  Through  this  initiative, 
the Government of Mali plans to collect a percentage 
of  the  revenues  from  mining,  especially  gold,  for  the 
purposes  of  investing  the  funds  in  the  fight  against 
malnutrition  in  our  county,  because  that  will  free  up 
opportunities  for  tomorrow.  Malnutrition  affects  our 
most  vulnerable  groups,  including  the  one  that  will 
bear  the  future  —  our  young  people  —  with  all  the 
evils  that  it  can  cause,  in  particular  cretinism,  which 
no one should wish to have, just when we need to have 
qualified, fit-for-purpose human resources.
One of the greatest challenges in the world today 
concerns international migration, a phenomenon whose 
alarming growth can be attributed to poverty, natural 
disasters,  man-made  catastrophe  and,  I  am  sorry  to 
say,  the  cynicism  of  organized  criminals,  because 
criminality  certainly  exists.  The  evidence  lies  in  the 
tens  of  thousands  who  are  willing  to  lose  their  lives 
through illegal migration in the sands of the desert and 
the depths of the ocean, as we are seeing today in the 
Mediterranean.
The  comprehensive  approach  that  the  delegation 
of Mali proposes depends on intensifying the dialogue 
among  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination  in 
order to find appropriate solutions capable of connecting 
the requirements of security, development, respect for 
human dignity and solidarity, which are in fact a single 
package. If we achieve this, migration will take place in 
15-29425
21/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
a humane and orderly fashion, benefiting migrants and 
the countries of origin and destination.
With  respect  to  security,  the  United  Nations  now 
needs  to  strengthen  its  tools  and  mechanisms  with  a 
view to creating a genuine response to the new threats of 
violent terrorism, drug-trafficking and related crimes. 
Despite the inroads we have made in the area of peace 
and  security,  it  is  regrettable  that  the  international 
arena continues to to be characterized by the increasing 
violence  perpetrated  or  masterminded  by  terrorist 
groups  and  narco-jihadists  such  as  Ansar  Dine,  the 
Mouvement  pour  l’unicité  et  le  jihad  en  Afrique  de 
l’Ouest, Al-Mourabitoun, the Islamic State of Iraq and 
the  Levant,  Al-Qaida,  Al-Shabaab,  and  Boko  Haram, 
which  is  now  known  as  the  Islamic  State  in  Western 
Africa.
It is clearly urgent to bridge the gap between security 
challenges  and 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
doctrine.  We  should  not  forget  that  this  doctrine  was 
designed  60  years  ago.  I  wish  from  this  rostrum  to 
reaffirm  Mali’s  active  support  for  any  initiative  to 
reform the peacekeeping architecture by incorporating 
that new reality, because no country today can ignore the 
fact that terrorism has become a threat to international 
peace and security.
Mali supports all initiatives for peace in the Middle 
East,  especially  any  initiative  that  would  enable  the 
people of the region, especially the people of Palestine, 
to finally enjoy lasting and just peace through the two-
State solution, which was adopted long ago and should 
finally be realized.
The  Government  of  Mali  also  welcomes  the 
restoration  of  normal  diplomatic  between  Cuba  and 
the United States of America. I commend the efforts, 
courage  and  political  realism  of  President  Barack 
Obama  and  President  Raúl  Castro  Ruz,  as  well  as  of 
Pope Francis. Pope Francis is a man of peace and a man 
of heart, as he showed last Friday when he addressed 
the  nations  of  the  world  from  this  very  rostrum  (see 
A/70/PV.3).  He  played  a  very  important  role  in  the 
normalization of relations between Cuba and the United 
States, and I commend him for that.
Clearly, our Organization has its work cut out for 
it. If it did not exist, it would surely have to be created. 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  another  major 
topic  of  discussion.  Security  Council  reform  will 
certainly be one of the most cross-cutting goals of our 
seventieth session. Mali supports the African Common 
Position, as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the Sirte Declaration. We will continue to consult with 
other  regional  groups  in  order  to  forge  the  requisite 
political will to correct the historical injustice to which 
the  continent  of  Africa  continues  to  be  subjected  by 
virtue  of  its  lack  of  representation  as  a  permanent 
member and its underrepresentation as a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council. That is not normal and 
not right in the case of such an important continent — a 
continent of the future, as the whole world is well aware.
include 
global  economic  governance  in  order  to  make  the 
international financial institutions better able to assist 
the  nations  of  the  South  to  address  the  challenges  of 
underdevelopment.  In  that  regard,  I  urgently  call  on 
Member  States,  regional  groups  and  the  international 
community 
the  constructive 
dialogue  that  has  been  under  way  since  2009  so  that 
United Nations reform can finally be achieved. Indeed, 
the  amendments  to  Articles  23,  27,  61  and  109  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, which entered into force 
between 1965 and 1968, are sufficient proof that reform 
of the United Nations is far from being a Pandora’s box 
to be feared.
reform  should  also 
United  Nations 
to 
tirelessly  pursue 
We  must 
therefore  embark  on  reform  with 
boldness  and  good  will.  Indeed,  reform  will  allow 
the  decision-making  bodies  of 
the  Organization 
to  reflect  its  geographical  balance  and  to  improve 
working conditions, including the relationship between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  A 
reformed United Nations would gain credibility in the 
eyes  of  international  public  opinion  and  its  decisions 
would  have  a  greater  chance  of  being  accepted  and 
implemented.
To  conclude,  I  reiterate  the  full  commitment  of 
the  people  of  Mali  to  the  ideals  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  especially  the  preservation  of  future 
generations from the scourge of war.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Mali for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
22/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
Address by Mr. Rafael Correa, Constitutional 
President of the Republic of Ecuador
daily assault on human dignity. Peace without justice is 
nothing more than pacification.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Constitutional 
President of the Republic of Ecuador.
Mr. Rafael Correa, Constitutional President of the 
Republic of Ecuador, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Rafael  Correa,  Constitutional  President  of  the 
Republic of Ecuador, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Correa 
in  Spanish):  We 
passionately support the proposal of our dear colleague 
and  friend,  President  Luis  Guillermo  Solís  Rivera  of 
Costa Rica, that the next Secretary-General should be a 
woman. Our region is home to such exemplary women 
as  Michelle  Bachelet,  Cristina  Fernández,  Dilma 
Rousseff,  María  Emma  Mejía  Vélez,  Alicia  Bárcena 
Ibarra and others.
It  is  nothing  short  of  heroic  for  members  of  the 
Assembly to be sitting here when there were 18 speakers 
yesterday morning and 16 in the afternoon, for a total of 
34, and we are two hours behind. I thank United Nations 
staff for working beyond the call of duty, but I think it 
is time for us to change our methodology, because this 
does not make much sense. This is the third meeting I 
have attended. It is 9.30 p.m. and I am speaker number 
34. If I am unable to move hearts in three minutes then I 
am going to move chairs, because people are just going 
to get up and leave. So I thank everyone for being here. 
Things  could  have  been  worse.  Evo  Morales  Ayma 
could have been next. I offer him my fond greetings.
The United Nations was born on 24 October 1945 
from  the  ashes  of  the  Second  World  War  to  maintain 
international peace and security. After the suffering of 
the  Holocaust,  we  thought  that  peace  meant  only  the 
absence of war, but in the twenty-first century, 70 years 
later,  peace  should  above  all  mean  presence  —  the 
presence of justice, the presence of dignity, the presence 
of development. As Gandhi said, “Poverty is the worst 
form of violence.” The Community of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  has  proclaimed  our  region  a 
continent  of  peace,  but  the  offensive  opulence  of  a 
few  coexisting  with  the  most  intolerable  poverty  is  a 
The  164  million  people  living  in  poverty  in 
Latin  America,  of  whom  68  million  live  in  extreme 
poverty,  are  still  waiting  for  justice,  freedom  and 
real  democracy  —  not  democracy  reduced  to  holding 
periodic elections. Overcoming poverty is the greatest 
moral imperative for our planet, because today, for the 
first time in the history of humankind, poverty is the 
fruit not of scarcity of resources or natural factors but 
of unjust, exclusionary systems that are the product of 
twisted power structures. As far back as two centuries 
ago,  the  liberal  French  philosopher  Frédéric  Bastiat 
said as much when he denounced the fact that
“When plunder becomes a way of life for a group of 
men in a society, over the course of time they create 
for themselves a legal system that authorizes it and 
a moral code that glorifies it.”
Let those who want to steal such sublime concepts 
as  freedom  understand  that  there  can  be  no  freedom 
without  justice.  And  that  is  not  all.  In  regions  with 
the  kind  of  inequality  that  exists  in  Latin  America, 
only by seeking justice will we achieve true freedom. 
Therefore,  we  must  not  settle  for  minimalist  goals, 
as  we  did  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
A  perspective  based  on  bare  minimums  legitimizes 
our  current  reality,  which  places  the  beneficiary  in  a 
position of inferiority with respect to others and makes 
no attempt to remedy the distances or power relations 
between individuals and societies.
As  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  said  this 
morning, “our aim is not just to keep people alive, but 
to  give  them  a  life”  (see  A/70/PV.13)  —  a  dignified, 
full life with conditions equal to those enjoyed by every 
other human being. We believe that the 17 Goals of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  come  closer  to  that  aspiration.  We  are  setting 
shared Goals not only for life’sfor  minimums but social 
maximums — the sumak kawsay or well-being of our 
ancestral  peoples,  which  represents  a  way  of  living 
with  dignity,  satisfying  basic  needs  but  in  harmony 
with oneself, with one’s fellow human beings and with 
different cultures, as well as with nature.
However,  as  we  said  yesterday  in  this  same  Hall 
(see  A/70/PV.10),  the  absence  in  the  2030  Agenda  of 
a  specific  goal  on  freedom  of  movement  is  a  highly 
regrettable omission. If, on the one hand, we promote 
the  free  circulation  of  goods  in  search  of  maximum 
15-29425
23/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
profit,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  we  criminalize  the 
free movement of persons in search of decent work, we 
have an immoral paradox that is simply intolerable and 
unsustainable from an ethical point of view. It is one of 
the  biggest  contradictions  of  neoliberal  globalization, 
which  seeks  not  to  create  global  societies  but  merely 
global  markets  and  exists  only  to  benefit  capital  and 
not  human  beings.  The  solution  is  not  more  borders 
but solidarity and humanity, as well as the creation of 
conditions  for  prosperity  and  peace  that  remove  the 
incentive for migration.
But 
there 
is  great  news.  The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  as  their  name  indicates,  place  a 
major focus on caring for the planet. Generally speaking, 
there  have  been  improvements  in  the  efficiency  of 
productive  process,  including  a  reduction  in  the 
intensity of global energy. In other words, the quantity 
of energy required for one unit of production registered 
a 1.2 per cent drop between 1971 and 2009. But despite 
technological advances and the dematerialization of the 
economy,  there  is  ever  greater  consumption  of  global 
energy.  Emissions  have  multiplied  by  a  factor  of  3.6 
in  50  years,  which  translates  into  an  annual  average 
growth  of  2.6  per  cent.  If  that  trend  continues,  in  28 
years current emissions will have doubled. The evidence 
suggests that energy consumption and the generation of 
emissions are directly proportionate to income levels, 
which  allows  consumption  to  trump  efficiency.  The 
inhabitant of a wealthy country produces 38 times more 
carbon  emissions  than  someone  who  lives  in  a  poor 
country,  all  of  which  leads  to  the  principle  of  shared 
but differentiated responsibilities.
Of  course,  there  are  also  environmental  effects 
linked  to  poverty,  such  as  soil  erosion  and  the  lack 
of  proper  solid  waste  treatment,  inter  alia.  Another 
problem  is  that  the  gap  in  energy  efficiency  between 
rich and poor countries remains abysmal and continues 
to grow over time, having increased by a factor of 4 to 5 
between 1971 and 2010. Overcoming such gaps depends 
on access to knowledge, science and technology. Here, 
too,  there  is  a  huge  disparity  between  rich  and  poor 
countries. Rich countries file 1,360,000 patents every 
year,  while  all  the  poor  countries  combined  file  only 
9,170 patents.
Global  inequities  are  reflected  not  only  in  the 
distribution  of  emissions,  but  also  in  the  impact  of 
global  warming  and  climate  change.  Countries  like 
Ecuador contribute less than 1 per cent of total carbon 
emissions, yet they suffer the effects of climate change. 
For example, the only penguin that lives directly on the 
equator  —  spheniscus  mendiculus,  commonly  known 
as the Galapagos penguin — is endangered due to the 
warming of surface marine waters. It is therefore vital 
to move towards a universal declaration on the rights 
of nature. The primary universal right of nature should 
be for it to continue to exist, but it should also be able 
to continue to provide our societies with the necessary 
sustenance to enable them continue to live according to 
sumak kawsay. That should be a core idea for avoiding 
certain  forms  of  fundamentalism.  The  human  being 
is not the only important being in nature, although he 
remains the most important. 
in  spite  of 
Nevertheless, 
those  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities  and  the  role  played 
by  access  to  knowledge,  science  and  technology, 
paradoxically, there is now a new unjust international 
division of labour. Rich countries generate knowledge 
that  they  privatize,  and  many  poor  or  middle-income 
countries  produce  environmental  goods 
that  are 
consumed  for  free.  Knowledge  in  general  is  a  good 
that  enjoys  free  access  —  in  other  words,  exclusion 
is technically impossible or very costly. To avoid free 
access, to privatize that good, institutional barriers are 
raised, namely, intellectual property rights. 
The  countries  of  the  Amazon  Basin  also  produce 
free-access  goods,  in  this  case  environmental  goods 
that regulate the global climate and without which life 
on the planet would worsen considerably. Despite that, 
the  big  global  polluters  pay  nothing  for  consuming 
those environmental goods and services. Sometimes it 
is thought that the generation of environmental goods 
has no cost. The reality is that it can be very costly, not 
in terms of direct costs but in terms that what we are 
renouncing to continue those environmental goods: the 
opportunity cost. 
By  the  way,  today  many  demand  that  we  should 
not  exploit  the  oil  in  the  Amazon,  without  citing  any 
moral  grounds  for  that  assertion.  But  that  involves  a 
huge  cost  in  terms  of  non-received  income,  and  for 
every  passing  day  it  means  a  child  is  unable  to  go  to 
school,  a  community  goes  without  drinking  water  or 
people  are  dying  due  to  perfectly  avoidable  illnesses, 
true pathologies of misery. If we were compensated for 
the consumption of environmental goods, we would no 
longer need financing for development.
Conservation  is  another  fundamental  idea  for 
any  debate  on  sustainability.  In  poor  countries  —  or 
in  countries  with  poor  people  —  conservation  would 
24/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
not  be  possible  if  it  did  not  generate  clear,  direct 
improvements  in  the  standards  of  living  of  the 
population.  As  Pope  Francis  said  in  his  encyclical 
Laudato si’, a true ecological approach always becomes 
a social approach. Access to science and technology is 
vital for poor countries in their struggle against climate 
change and poverty. As Paraguay’s President, Horacio 
Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  said  moments  ago,  it  is  vital  to 
declare technologies that mitigate climate change and 
their  respective  effects  as  global  public  goods  and  to 
guarantee their free access. 
The  new  international  division  of  labour  is  a 
complete  paradox.  The  goods  of  free  access  should 
have no rival in terms of consumption; they should have 
no marginal cost if they are consumed by an additional 
person. As a result, when more people use that good, the 
better. That is normally the characteristic of knowledge, 
science and technology. As George Bernard Shaw once 
said  very  rightly,  if  you  have  an  apple  and  I  have  an 
apple and we exchange these apples, then you and I will 
still each have one apple. But if you have an idea and I 
have an idea and we exchange these ideas, then each of 
us will have two ideas. 
Contrariwise,  when  a  good  becomes  scarce  or 
is  destroyed  little  by  little  as  it  is  consumed,  as  is 
the  case  with  environmental  goods,  that  is  when  the 
consumption should be restricted to avoid what Garrett 
Hardin called the tragedy of the commons. Why is not 
the  obvious  being  done?  Indeed,  why  is  the  complete 
opposite being done? It is not a technical problem, but 
a  political  one.  The  unjust  new  international  division 
of  labour  is  nothing  other  than  the  distorted  logic  of 
privatizing  the  benefits  and  socializing  the  losses. 
Nothing justifies that approach, just power. 
Just  imagine  for  a  moment  that  the  situation  was 
the  generators  of  environmental  goods 
reversed: 
and  services  were  the  rich  countries,  and  the  poor  or 
middle-income  countries  were  the  polluters.  Is  there 
any  doubt  that  by  now  they  would  not  have  invaded 
us  to  demand  from  us  “fair  compensation”?  This  is 
an  impressive  difference,  but  the  problem  of  climate 
change  only  be  controlled  with  simply  more  justice, 
in  this  case  environmental  justice.  Unfortunately,  as 
Thrasymachus  said  more  than  2,000  years  ago  in  his 
dialogue with Socrates, justice is nothing other than the 
advantage of the stronger. 
At  the  end  of  2015  we  will  meet  in  Paris  for  the 
twenty-first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
If  we  fail  at  that  meeting  and  do  not  reach  binding 
agreements to protect the only planet that we have, our 
civilization  could  start  to  be  buried.  But  if  we  gain  a 
victory  we  will  celebrate  twenty-second  conference 
with an environmental manifesto that was first written 
in  1225  by  Saint  Francis  of  Assisi,  who  expressed 
gratitude  for  Brother  Wind,  for  the  air,  the  sky,  the 
clouds, the serene heavens and all time.
Ecuador  looks  on  with  hope  at  the  restoration  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States of America. We hope that that process leads to 
the lifting of the embargo and the closing of the base at 
Guantánamo. It will not be a concession of any power, 
rather it will be a triumph of justice and dignity of the 
Cuban people. I was saddened to hear President Obama 
say  that  he  proposed  ending  50  years  of  embargo  not 
because  it  was  a  violation  of  international  law,  of  the 
rights of the Cuban people, of human rights, but because 
it had not functioned. There is no concession on that: 
what we are talking about is the justice and dignity of 
Cuban people after 50 years of heroic resistance. 
Our  peoples  will  never  again  accept  trusteeship, 
interference  or  intervention.  Seared  into  our  memory 
are the abuses and violence of the past, even though we 
are asked to forget them and to look only to the future. 
Ecuador supports Argentina in its sovereign right 
to the Malvinas Islands, a disgraceful and completely 
unacceptable  vestige  of  colonialism  in  the  twentieth 
century. 
We  recognize  the  State  of  Palestine.  It  should  be 
a  State  Member  of  the  Organization,  a  fully  fledged 
Member within its 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital. 
We welcome the recent agreements reached between 
the  Colombian  Government  and  the  Revolutionary 
Armed  Forces  of  Colombia.  Ecuador  hopes  for  peace 
for Colombia, and we support them in that endeavour.
Ecuador also expresses solidarity with the Syrian 
people,  the  victim  of  a  conflict  that  has  destroyed 
families, goods and people. Certain Powers ignored the 
principle of non-interference in foreign affairs and have 
only exacerbated the violence. We hope that peace will 
be restored for the Syrian people, and we reiterate that 
only they can decide on their own future. 
Ecuador  profoundly  values  its  relationship  with 
Africa  and  will  be  hosting  the  fourth  Africa-South 
15-29425
25/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
America Summit in May 2016, to which all the countries 
of the two regions have been invited. In October 2016 
we will be hosting the United Nations Conference on 
Housing and Sustainable Urban Development, which is 
held only every 20 years. A new urban agenda will be 
drafted  at  that  meeting,  and  we  firmly  believe  in  the 
right to inclusive cities with sustainable urban growth.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
condemn once again before the world an environmental 
disaster  that  was  85  times  worse  than  the  British 
Petroleum  spill  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  in  2010,  and 
18 times worse than the Exxon Valdez spill off the coast 
of Alaska in 1989. I am referring to the contamination 
left behind by the Texaco oil company, which maintained 
operations  in  the  Ecuadorian  Amazon  until  1992  and 
was bought by the multinational oil company Chevron 
in  2001.  Chevron,  the  third-largest  company  in  the 
United States, was sued approximately 20 years ago by 
indigenous communities of the Amazon who had been 
affected by the pollution. It is a strictly a private civil 
case, Amazon Defence Coalition vs. Chevron-Texaco.
Chevron  spent  the  previous  decade  fighting  to 
keep the case from being tried in New York, where the 
company has its corporate headquarters, preferring to 
have  it  adjudicated  where  the  offence  was  allegedly 
committed, in the province of Sucumbios in Ecuador. 
Nevertheless, as Chevron lost the case and was ordered 
to pay a large sum, it has spent 10 years destroying the 
reputation of the same courts that it had enthusiastically 
defended  when  it  thought  that  it  could  buy  them  off, 
while  spending  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  in  a 
global campaign to discredit Ecuador.
Transnational corporations must cease their abuses 
against the States and peoples of the South. Ecuador calls 
upon Member States to participate in drafting a binding 
treaty to sanction transnational corporations when they 
violate human rights or pollute the environment.
We  invite  those  present  to  visit  Ecuador  and  put 
their hands into the hundreds of pools left by Texaco, 
so that they can feel for themselves the oil waste that 
was left behind, 20 years after the oil company left our 
country. That is the dirty hand of Chevron.
Faced with Chevron-Texaco’s arrogance, its billions 
of dollars and the infamy of this corrupt and corrupting 
company, Ecuador will fight back with the most lethal 
of any weapon ever invented: the truth.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Constitutional President of the Republic of Ecuador for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Rafael  Correa,  Constitutional  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Ecuador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President  of 
the Plurinational State of Bolivia, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Morales Ayma (spoke in Spanish): I am 
enormously happy to be here, on behalf of the Bolivian 
people,  to  express  our  feelings  and  to  talk  about  our 
experiences  and  our  actions  to  date.  As  everyone 
else  has  mentioned,  we  are  here  on  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. The 
Organization was founded to seek peace after the two 
World Wars. 
I feel it is important to make an in-depth economic, 
political, social, cultural and environmental assessment 
following  70  years  of  the  existence  of  the  United 
Nations.  What  has  it  achieved?  In  the  eyes  of  the 
people, wars and invasions continue even after 70 years 
of the United Nations. What is the cause of those wars 
and  invasions  on  several  continents?  It  is  due  to  the 
ambition  of  some  regions  and  nations  and  to  policies 
that concentrate capital in only a few hands and in only 
some countries, which are administered by oligarchies 
along  with  transnational  companies.  I  therefore  feel 
that, 70 years after its founding, the United Nations has 
not fulfilled its goals of peace and stability in the world.
This  morning  we  heard  various  statements. 
Starting  with  President  Obama  (see  A/70/PV.13)  and 
then  other  Presidents  from  other  continents,  all  of  us 
are seeking peace. But I want to say to everyone here, 
representatives  of  all  the  peoples  of  the  world,  that 
there will be no peace without social justice. Calls were 
26/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
made against terrorism and armed insurgent groups on 
several  continents  —  that  they  have  never  been  able 
to  understand  their  demands  —  while  certain  Powers 
want to understand how those problems can be solved. 
I also heard statements condemning social movements 
and confusing them with terrorist movements. I came 
out of social movements and the indigenous movement. 
Those of us from social movements are not terrorists, 
but  rather  contribute  to  social  peace  with  results,  as 
well as equality, dignity and justice.
I also want to say to those who have championed 
capitalism  for  the  past  70  years  that  capitalism  has 
failed. It is a failed model because, as many also said 
this  morning,  it  has  brought  humankind  only  crises 
—humanitarian,  financial,  energy  and  food  crises. 
The  common  thread  of  the  various  statements  was 
that nearly half the inhabitants of the world are going 
hungry and that untold billions of dollars in economic 
resources  are  being  devoted  to  destroying  Mother 
Earth  —  or  Planet  Earth,  as  it  is  called  in  the  West. 
Some have said that $100 billion is needed to confront 
and reduce global warming. Has it occurred to anyone 
how much money is being spent to destroy the planet, 
and  how  many  countless  billions  are  spent  to  invade 
countries?
I  listened  intently  to  the  words  of  my  brother 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  as  he  despaired 
at  what  the  Libyan  and  Syrian  peoples  were  going 
through. What is the cause for their suffering? Let us 
not forget that the United States Government overthrew 
Al-Qadhafi. This morning they called him a tyrant: the 
military  intervention  by  the  United  States  and  NATO 
was to target the tyrant, the President at the time. But 
Mr. Al-Qadhafi was not really the target. The goal was 
Libya’s  oil.  I  ask  members  to  ask  themseles  to  whom 
Lybia’s oil belongs. Does it belong to the Libyan people 
or the Libyan State? Or does it belong, in fact, to a few 
American  and  European  transnational  corporations? 
Imagine:  they  used  fallacious  arguments  to  intervene 
and,  now  that  the  poor  Libyan  people  have  been  torn 
apart,  they  are  no  longer  interested  in  them,  for  the 
economic and natural resources are now in the hands of 
the transnationals. That is capitalism.
I could speak about the many countries that were 
taken over before and since the founding of the United 
Nations, not to mention the situation in Syria and other 
countries. That is why we are convinced that capitalism 
is not the solution for life, and even less for humankind. 
That is the profound difference between us.
Some presidents at times speak in half-truths here; 
they do not speak the truth about what is happening in 
the  world.  While  some  may  think  that  they  are  going 
to  live  better,  such  apolicy  is  not  going  to  resolve 
social  problems  or  humanitarian  issues.  Living  well, 
as  our  brother  the  President  of  Ecuador  says,  is  the 
very  synthesis  of  community-based  socialism,  while 
living better is the synthesis of capitalism. There is a 
profound difference between the two. By living well I 
mean living in solidarity and in complementarity — not 
just in solidarity with other human beings, but living in 
harmony with Mother Earth. For us in social movements, 
especially the indigenous movement, it is about Mother 
Earth. We are convinced that the human being will be 
unable to live without Mother Earth, and that Mother 
Earth would get along better without human beings.
There  is  one  other  thing  that  many  may  not 
understand, but I still want to say it. Under this way of 
living, basic services cannot be under private business. 
That  comes  from  our  significant  experience.  Basic 
services  were  once  privatized  in  Bolivia  —  water, 
energy,  electricity  and  telecommunications.  Through 
our Constitution we decided that basic services were a 
human right and could never be private businesses. For 
we are talking about water, which is life.
Also with respect to living well, we are convinced 
that  natural  resources  can  never  belong  to  foreigners 
or to transnational corporations. Let me comment from 
my own experience. After coming to power, we heard 
from the vigorous voices of my people and social forces 
in Bolivia. On 1 May 2006, in due homage to workers, 
we nationalized the fossil fuel industry and recovered 
our  natural  resources.  During  the  campaign  we  said 
that  there  could  be  no  masters  or  owners,  and  maybe 
just partners. 
I  shall  give  just  one  statistic  in  that  regard.  Prior 
to  our  taking  office,  income  from  oil  leases  stood  at 
barely  $300  million.  Since  the  law  on  hydrocarbons 
was  changed  and  we  nationalized  the  industry,  that 
income  had  risen  to  $5.6  billion  by  2014.  Imagine 
how much money was stolen from us in Bolivia under 
imperial domination and the neoliberal model. We went 
from $300 million in 2005 to $5.6 billion in 2014. For 
a  country  of  10  million  inhabitants,  those  economic 
resources  are  exceedingly  importance  for  economic 
freedom. 
That 
that  natural 
resources  should  belong  to  the  people  and  be  under 
is  why  we  are  convinced 
15-29425
27/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
the administration of the State. That is our experience 
and that is how we have freed ourselves economically. 
That is why we do not believe in capitalism. Why the 
interventions  into  other  countries?  To  take  dominion 
over natural resources so that they can then continue to 
concentrate capital in the hands of a few.
Secondly, let me also say that we will face a huge 
responsibility  in  December  in  Paris  concerning  the 
environment. As Presidents — at least as I see it — it 
will be important that we take with us proposals from 
our  peoples.  After  consulting  my  brothers  and  sisters 
in Bolivia, we will take with us policies, projects and 
programmes aimed at cleaning up and healing Mother 
Earth.  If  we  do  not  take  on  the  responsibility  for 
saving  Mother  Earth,  future  generations  will  hold  us 
responsible.
I will mention another personal experience, and I 
apologize for speaking even more about myself. When 
I travel to the countryside in Bolivia, one can no longer 
tell what season it is. A friend from the tropics called 
me  at  one  or  two  in  the  morning  one  day  and  asked 
what I was doing. I said that I was in bed, and asked 
the same question in turn. He told me he was leaving 
the house to go to the river because it was too hot to 
sleep, and of course they still had no shower. The entire 
family  was  going  to  the  river  at  that  hour  to  protect 
themselves from such a high temperature. The current 
increase  in  global  temperature  is  less  than  1°C;  what 
will happen if the temperature rises 2°C? Some experts 
have predicted that, if we do not stop global warming, 
by 2030 the temperature could rise 4°C or 5°C. 
I 
feel 
that 
future  generations  will  become 
anti-imperialists  and  anti-capitalists  because  that  is 
the  legacy  of  capitalism.  Northern  countries  are  now 
telling us that we should be the stewards of the forests 
for  them.  But  we  are  not  going  to  be  their  stewards, 
and  they  should  not  transfer  their  obligations  and 
responsibilities to us in developing countries.
So that is another responsibility we have. We must 
go to Paris bearing our awareness of the responsibility 
to find a way to save Mother Earth. I invite participants 
to  attend  the  international  event  of  the  worldwide 
social  movement  that  will  be  held  in  Bolivia  from 
10 to 12 October, and to bring with them the proposals 
and  ideas  of  their  peoples.  We  need  not  be  subjected 
to  the  initiatives  of  the  American  empire  or  of  the 
multinationals. Now is not the time to be pursuing alien 
policies.
Today I heard two very interesting and very different 
statements:  one  by  President  Obama  and  the  other  by 
the President of China. What did President Obama say 
to us about providing security to his country and to his 
allies? What did he say about combating terrorism? He 
said that he could provide war and interference. What 
did  the  President  of  China  offer  us?  Assistance  and 
cooperation. That State is not an expansionist one. 
I  commend  social  movements.  Our  movements 
engender  unity  and  integration  for  liberation,  not 
invasion  policies  for  the  purposes  of  domination.  We 
have  profound  differences.  We  welcome  the  words 
of  the  Chinese  President,  who  again  has  offered  us 
assistance  and  cooperation.  We  acknowledge  his 
country’s  leadership.  From  the  media,  we  are  also 
aware that the United States is in hock to China. Well, 
that is their problem. I hope the press is not lying. But 
they still threaten interference as a way to dominate the 
peoples of the world.
There  is  a  debate  under  way.  Some  this  morning 
talked about democracy. I would say that there are two 
types  of  democracy.  There  is  the  democracy  of  the 
people and there is the democracy of transnationals. The 
democracy of the people involves the social movements 
in  which  people  organize  themselves.  But  what  does 
social movement democracy consist of? We do not just 
have representative and participatory democracy. In my 
experience, first as a union leader and now as President, 
we have always taken decisions with the leaders. There 
have  always  been  differences:  some  sectors  are  more 
ambitious than others, and some of their demands can 
be  both  unattainable  and  undesirable.  But  the  people 
understand.  Policies  are  decided  and  programmes 
proposed in a joint manner. Our responsibility lies in 
how to meet the demands and carry out the economic 
and social proposals and programmes.
In 
the  other 
type  of  democracy,  which 
is 
supposedly  representative,  voting  ends  on  the  day  of 
the elections. But who governs then? Let us be honest. 
It is not President Obama who governs, but the bankers, 
businessmen  and  transnationals  who  govern.  What 
kind of democracy is that? They deceive the people into 
voting, and then they do not govern. I heard a candidate 
say in the media that he financed both Republicans and 
Democrats: “I command them”. That is not democracy; 
that is capitalism. Humankind faces serious problems. 
That is why we are convinced that, if we want to end 
poverty, we need to end the capitalist system. There is 
no other way.
28/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
Moreover,  I  am  also  convinced  that  the  new 
millennium should be a millennium of the peoples, not 
that  of  hierarchies  or  monarchies.  However,  I  respect 
their rights. If monarchy is their way, we respect that. 
But  it  cannot  be  monarchy  exported  from  Europe  to 
Latin America. That must end. This is not the time for 
oligarchies,  and  much  less  the  financial  oligarchies 
that exist today. That is why we have an obligation to 
work together to combat the problems we face. While 
70 years after the inception of the United Nations there 
may no longer be coups d’état and military takeovers, 
what  we  now  have  are  soft  coups,  espionage  and  the 
stopping  of  presidential  planes.  I  do  not  understand 
these times. Now there are military bases. That is why, 
honestly, I do not share such policies.
I  do  not  know  the  degree  of  certainty  or  resolve 
with  which  they  said  it,  but  those  detained  for  their 
opposition  in  the  past  have  expressed  the  notion 
that  ideas  could  not  be  imprisoned.  We  see  so  many 
terrorists,  criminals  and  corrupt  presidents  who 
violate  human  rights  —  after  killing  30,  40,  50  or 
70  people  —  coming  to  the  United  States.  If  we  are 
fighting against terrorism, crime and drug traffickers, 
why  are  those  drug-traffickers,  terrorists  and  corrupt 
politicians  who  violated  human  rights  not  thrown  out 
of the United States and tried in their own countries? 
I  cannot  comprehend  how  the  United  States  has 
become a graveyard for corrupt people and criminals, 
but  that  is  what  has  happened.  And  some  authorities 
and Governments wonder why they do not agree with 
imperialism and capitalism.
I also want to take this opportunity to address the 
serious issue of migration, which I did not hear other 
Presidents  mention.  Migrants  are  being  criminalized 
and  deported.  I  speak  as  an  inhabitant  of  Abya  Yala, 
our home continent called America. Europeans invaded 
us  500  years  ago.  Did  my  grandparents  criminalize 
those  who  invaded  us?  But  they  put  in  place  policies 
to  exterminate  indigenous  peoples.  They  pillaged  our 
natural  resources.  Yet  there  were  never  provisions 
or  programmes  in  place  to  expel  them.  Some  of  our 
brothers are today leaving Latin America for Europe or 
the United States to work, and are finding themselves 
criminalized and persecuted.
Money has its tax havens under capitalism, while 
human beings suffer hellish poverty, and migrants are 
expelled. That is why we propose to work together to 
create universal citizenship. We all have a right to live 
wherever  we  wish  in  the  world.  Globalization  should 
not  simply  be  a  matter  of  trade  and  money,  but  it 
ought  be  for  all  human  beings  around  the  world.  Our 
brother migrants should never be expelled. On its part, 
Bolivia never deports anyone. Our companies are now 
no longer the masters or the owners, now they simply 
provide services in our country.
The important issue of drug trafficking is another 
legacy  of  capitalism.  We  have  nationalized  the  fight 
against drug trafficking and, in cooperation with several 
South  American  countries,  have  also  regionalized 
the  effort.  It  is  very  important  to  be  aware  of  United 
Nations statistics. Drug trafficking has been guided by 
purely geopolitical interests. Look at the United Nations 
statistics. Look at those of South American countries and 
to those on other continents. What are the results where 
military bases are set up and many billions of dollars are 
invested? Zero. Instead, drug trafficking has increased. 
After having genuinely nationalized, we in Bolivia are 
better  off  without  military  bases,  the  American  Drug 
Enforcement Administration or the economic resources 
that the United States should provide as part of a shared 
responsibility.  I  am  not  calling  for  such  aid,  but  we 
welcome  Europe’s  unconditional  contribution  to  the 
fight against drug trafficking. We see the results of the 
fight against drug trafficking.
other 
have 
I  wish 
to  reiterate 
that  we  countries  with 
anti-imperialist  Governments  are  accused  of  not 
complying with certain regulations and of being drug 
traffickers,  while  pro-imperialist  and  pro-capitalist 
countries,  where  drug  trafficking  has  increased,  are 
congratulated  for  their  efforts.  What  a  lie!  I  am  not 
complaining, but I would simply ask members to take a 
look at the United Nations statistics on the fight against 
drug trafficking. 
Fortunately, 
already 
understood  the  results  we  have  achieved  in  Bolivia, 
and we are now debating the model of combating drug 
trafficking  in  Bolivia.  We  never  said  that  we  would 
attain  zero  coca  production,  but  also  that  we  cannot 
be free cultivation of coca. If we had more technology, 
such as radars, the results would be much better than at 
present. I inherited from the former Government more 
than 30,000 hectares of coca leaf plantations. This year, 
without the death of a single peasant, we have 24,400 
hectares  for  traditional  consumption.  Look  at  the 
United Nations statistics and at those of other countries 
of the world.
countries 
I  join  the  many  other  presidents  in  welcoming 
the agreement between Cuba and the United States of 
15-29425
29/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
America  to  establish  diplomatic  relations.  But  I  have 
something  I  would  like  to  share  with  everyone,  and  I 
hope that I am not tiring members. 
When I took up my functions of President, I visited 
the  Ambassador  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
when  we  still  had  an  Ambassador.  He  was  giving 
me  instructions:  “President  Evo,  you  cannot  have 
diplomatic  relations  with  Cuba,  Venezuela  or  Iran.” 
Then  a  group  of  United  States  Congressmen  came 
and  they  instructed  me,  “President  Evo,  you  cannot 
have relations with those three countries.” Of course, I 
refused. I said, “If we had the economic resources, we 
would have Embassies in every country of the world. No 
one is going to tell me with whom I can and cannot have 
diplomatic relations.” Since then, I have never accepted 
the instructions of the United States authorizing or not 
authorizing me to have diplomatic relations with Cuba 
or  Iran.  But  now  I  congratulate  the  United  States  of 
America for having diplomatic relations with Iran and 
Cuba, and hopefully soon they will even have relations 
with Venezuela.
Diplomatic relations with Cuba should not end with 
just an exchange of Ambassadors. Our great dream as 
the Bolivian people is that the United States will return 
Guantánamo to Cuba and that the economic blockade 
will be lifted once and for all. We hope that the words 
we heard this morning from President Obama will be 
followed up with action to lifte the economic blockade.
President Castro, my brother, rightly said that with 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States we have declared a zone of peace. We might have 
a little problem in Colombia with the Fuerzas Armadas 
Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC) but, fortunately, 
thanks to the support and mediation of Cuba, we were 
very pleased to hear about the preliminary agreement 
between FARC and the Government of Colombia. We 
commend the efforts and patience of President Santos 
Calderón  in  reaching  that  agreement.  But  I  want  to 
say to my FARC companions that we have had 50, 60, 
70  years  of  revolutions  with  arms  and  bullets;  now  a 
revolution is achieved through the vote, awareness and 
the democratic struggle. That is our experience. 
Change  can  be  made  to  the  social  and  economic 
situation,  not  only  here  on  this  continent  but  also  on 
other  continents.  When  groups  or  social  sectors  are 
in  the  right  and  fight  for  the  dignity  and  sovereignty 
of the people, people support that struggle, that quest 
to  achieve  liberation.  We  genuinely  welcome  that 
agreement. 
There is another issue in our continent, that of the 
Malvinas Islands. With apologies to Argentina, however, 
the Malvinas Islands do not just belong Argentina, but 
to  all  Latin  America.  How  can  they  control  an  island 
that is so many thousands of kilometres away, and so 
near  to  our  continent?  That  has  to  end.  We  hope  for 
understanding in putting an end to such problems that 
we continue to have. 
We also have another pending matter, at The Hague. 
I  welcome  the  presence  of  my  Chilean  brothers,  who 
are filming me and listening attentively. One hundred 
and thirty-six years ago, through no fault of the Chilean 
people,  a  group  of  oligarchs,  supported  by  British 
multinationals,  invaded  us  for  economic  reasons.  Just 
to refresh members’ memories, the invasion began on 
14  February  1879.  The  first  resistance  took  place  on 
23 March, after more than a month of invastion. I want 
to  highlight  this:  after  many  commitments  and  offers 
from  Chile,  which  I  commend,  I  very  much  regret  to 
say that none have been fulfilled.
That is why we turned to the International Court of 
Justice, because Bolivia is a peaceful country under its 
Constitution. We do not have an expansionist mentality 
that makes us want to invade neighbouring countries. 
That is why we are petitioning the Court. Unfortunately, 
certain  Chilean  officials  —  not  all  —  say  they  have 
no  pending  issues  with  Bolivia.  Recently,  the  Court 
said there was a pending issue in our continent and it 
deemed  itself  competent  to  resolve  the  case  between 
Chile and Bolivia. It is with humility and great dignity 
that Bolivia welcomes that the fact that the Court has 
acknowledged  a  pending  case,  as  this  is  the  world’s 
highest judicial body, created by the United Nations. 
I want to say to my Chilean brothers, and especially 
the Chilean people, that we do not want there to be any 
winners or losers. All we want is to resolve the question 
through dialogue and for the good of our peoples. That 
our great desire as Bolivians. It is not a matter of pitting 
anyone against each other. We are two neighbours, two 
brothers.  How  could  be  at  odds  all  life-long?  All  we 
want is for what has been on offer to be fulfilled. 
I  welcome  the  support  of  everyone.  I  very  well 
understand  the  great  solidarity  that  exists  on  this 
matter, and not only on the part of former presidents, 
Governments, social movements and institutions. Kofi 
Annan,  a  former  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations,  gave  his  timely  support  to  the  case,  saying 
“resolve the matter of access to the sea”. Not just Pope 
Francis,  but  John  Paul  II  also  expressed  his  support. 
30/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
It  is  a  matter  of  record.  Four  former  United  States 
Presidents and three Nobel Peace Prize laureates said 
that the issuse of access to the sea should be resolved. 
This is not just a claim, but our right. Sooner or later, 
as a matter of justice and with the support of the entire 
world,  we  will  return  to  the  Pacific  with  sovereignty. 
We hope that it will be through an agreed dialogue, for 
the good of all our peoples.
I  want  to  conclude  by  commending  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations.  Two  weeks  ago,  we  found  out 
from the media that the Ambassadors and Government 
representatives  from  all  over  the  world  had  adopted 
the  principles  and  values   of  the  Andean  indigenous 
movement: do not steal, do not lie and do not be idle. 
Those are values from my family. I as President, as well 
as the Vice-President and Cabinet, apply those values. 
That is why we have moved ahead in such little time. 
Bolivia is no longer as it was before. We came to 
power  when  Bolivia  was  ranked  the  second-to-last 
country  of  the  continent,  the  last  country  in  South 
America. Thanks to the struggle of the Bolivian people, 
to  our  social  movements  and  to  the  programme  now 
in  place,  Bolivia  is  no  longer  a  poorly  viewed,  small 
country,  as  it  was  before.  I  referred  to  our  policies 
briefly a few moments ago. Those three values should 
the standard for transparent and honest governance in 
the service of our peoples throughout the world. In the 
name  of  the  indigenous  movement  of  Bolivia  and  the 
Andean region, we are happy and grateful to the United 
Nations for having endorsed those values.
I also want to take this opportunity to commend and 
show my estimation for the joint efforts undertaken by 
Argentina, the Group of 77 and the General Assembly 
for  adopting  the  Basic  Principles  on  Sovereign  Debt 
Restructuring  Processes  (resolution  69/319)  and  the 
necessary limits on the voracious transnational vulture 
funds. Such funds are yet another means to strangle and 
suppress the economies of sovereign countries, which 
we reject categorically. That is a way of defending the 
economic sovereignty of countries.
Lastly,  I 
thank  Pope  Francis  for  everything 
contained in his message. My mother raised me to be 
Catholic.  Unfortunately,  because  of  the  shortcomings 
of  some  leaders  of  the  Catholic  Church,  I  have  been 
disappointed by it. Because of Pope Francis, a brother 
who  questions  capitalism  and  does  not  submit  to  the 
god of money, my morale has been uplifted, and I feel 
more Catholic today. And so I want to commend Pope 
Francis’ message of peace. I now really do have a Pope. 
I know that Pope Francis, through masses and religious 
ceremonies, sends us his blessings and prayers. Because 
for the sake of life and for the sake of peace he is risking 
his life, we have the obligation to defend and help him. 
That is all I ask.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Constitutional  President  of  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chief 
Executive Officer of Afghanistan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chief 
Executive Officer of Afghanistan. 
Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chief Executive Officer of 
Afghanistan, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
Afghanistan, and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Abdullah  (Afghanistan):  It  gives  me  great 
the  Islamic  Republic  of 
pleasure,  on  behalf  of 
Afghanistan,  to  express  my  sincere  congratulations 
on the President’s well-deserved election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I 
also  express  my  deep  gratitude  to  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  hands-on  leadership  of  the 
Organization at a very demanding time.
The  state  of  the  world  today,  70  years  after  the 
founding  of  this  unique  Organization,  is  at  best  a 
mixed  one.  While  the  newly  drafted  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  asserted  its  primary  principles  as  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  after 
the  Second  World  War,  today  a  set  of  threats,  mostly 
created  by  humans,  challenges  societies  throughout 
the  world  and  pose  a  threat  to  security,  basic  rights, 
dignity,  our  ecosystem,  health  care,  State  viability, 
governance,  national  and  community  cohesiveness 
and  even  cultural  and  religious  identity.  However,  it 
15-29425
31/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
also  poses  a  serious  challenge  to  the  United  Nations 
existing  mandate,  structure,  resources  and  traditional 
approaches to dealing with global issues. 
The Organization has tried its best to keep up with 
and adapt to an evolving environment, but if we look 
at the past seven decades, we see that our predecessors 
did  their  best  to  deal  with  a  litany  of  conflicts,  arms 
races,  social  and  economic  upheavals,  ideological 
contests  and  geostrategic  rivalries.  But  never  has  the 
world  or  the  United  Nations  faced  such  fast-paced 
change,  both  constructive  and  harmful.  Such  abrupt 
fluctuations  heighten  expectations  and 
immediate 
demands for solutions and answers. Those monumental 
tasks — coupled with population growth, unprecedented 
mobility,  connectivity  and  access 
information 
and  technological  know-how  —  necessitate  constant 
negotiations,  legal  frameworks  and  new  management 
and  leadership  skills.  They  also  encompass  inherent 
risks and security concerns.
to 
At  the  same  time,  as  the  world  shrinks  and  the 
human  village  grows,  we  are  faced  with  the  ugly 
aspects  of  globalization  and  inter-dependence.  We 
are  seeing  the  emergence  of  societies  of  haves  and 
have-nots,  subgroups,  disenfranchised  communities, 
abject poverty, upscale corruption, injustice, repression, 
sectarianism, terrorism and criminality, among others. 
At  some  point,  it  is  the  United  Nations  and  other 
specialized  and  multilateral  organizations  that  will 
need  to  be  ready  to  drive  the  agenda  and  provide  the 
required platform for decision-making. We urge future 
reforms to take the needs of our times into account and 
to offer flexibility and fast-track problem management 
for the work at hand. 
Allow me to dwell on the case of my own country 
as a prime example of a nation in transition, as well as 
of  a  country  exposed  to  multiple  risks  and  threats  at 
the forefront of our fight against international terrorism 
and  extremism.  Afghanistan  is  suffering,  and  its 
people  demand  solutions  that  are  practical,  verifiable 
and durable. The presence of terrorist sanctuaries and 
support networks in Pakistan continues to cause trouble 
inside  Afghanistan.  The  Haqqani  Network  has  been 
identified as a main culprit. It needs to be dismantled, 
as has been our demand in the past.
Our demands are legitimate, as our people continue 
to  suffer  at  the  hands  of  terrorist  elements  who  cross 
into  Afghanistan  and  indiscriminately  victimize  our 
citizens. That matter needs to be addressed on a bilateral 
basis and facilitated by trusted international partners. 
As a case in point, over the past 48 hours, hundreds of 
militants, some of whom are foreign fighters, organized 
attacks  in  Kunduz  province,  where  heavy  fighting  is 
raging.  The  day  before,  more  than  10  spectators  at  a 
sports stadium were killed and many more were injured 
in Paktika when a bomb was detonated.
Those attempts will fail to subdue us, just as they 
failed  to  do  so  on  other  occasions  over  the  past  few 
years.  In  the  broader  context,  Afghanistan  continues 
to be the victim of terrorist organizations and violent 
extremists, including Daesh-type cells that are trying to 
find a foothold. Another fact is clear to Afghans across 
the board, namely, were it not for an external support 
system,  access  to  arms  and  munitions,  rest  areas  and 
hospitals and funding and training, as part of strategic 
collusion with powerful elements in our neighbourhood, 
this  guerrilla-style  low-intensity  warfare  would  have 
been history by now.
We  call  on  Pakistan  to  do  what  its  leadership 
promised  to  us  a  few  months  ago  when  they  agreed 
to  crack  down  on  known  terror  outfits,  meaning  the 
enemies  of  Afghanistan.  We  agreed  to  a  paradigm 
change in our relations and engagement towards peace 
talks  with  the  Taliban.  Events  turned  out  differently 
after it was divulged that the Taliban leader had been 
dead for over two years and the episode was a sham. A 
loss of trust can have irreparable consequences for all 
sides. We need to learn from that. 
We  have  reached  the  one-year  mark  for  the 
anniversary  of  the  national  unity  Government.  I 
am  delighted  to  report  to  the  General  Assembly  that 
Afghanistan  has  achieved  significant  milestones  in 
the  past  year.  Thanks  to  the  exemplary  generosity  of 
our friends, the progress made in Afghanistan over the 
past  14  years  cannot  be  discounted.  We  succeeded  in 
prioritizing the needs of the most vulnerable, improving 
living  standards,  providing  access  to  education  to 
boys and girls and improving health-care quality. Life 
expectancy  has  increased  by  an  average  of  20  years 
since 2001, with Afghans living well beyond the mere 
40 years of age that was once the norm. Improvement   
in  the  health  of  women  and  children  is  particularly 
notable,  as  illustrated  by  the  54  per  cent  increase  in 
the  number  of  infants  delivered  and  the  62  per  cent 
decrease in infant mortality.
Thanks  to  the  Government’s  focus  on  gender 
equality, equity and equal opportunity, female political 
participation  has  also  been  strengthened.  During  the 
2014  election,  35  per  cent  of  voters  were  females. 
32/34 
15-29425
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.15
Women now claim 11 per cent of judgeships, with an 
additional 20 per cent in training. 
Moreover,  we  are  also 
laws 
and  regulations  that  deal  with  torture,  and  we  are 
taking  necessary  measures  to  prevent  and  prosecute 
individuals involved in any form of torture, as per the 
Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture.
strengthening 
As  mentioned  earlier, 
We  sincerely  thank  the  international  community 
for the exemplary support it has provided and for the 
generosity  and  patience  it  has  so  tirelessly  bestowed 
upon us as a war-torn nation. I would very especially 
like to mention the United States of America, NATO, 
the  European  Union  and  the  entire  donor  community 
for  the  blood  of  their  soldiers,  the  sacrifices  of  their 
civilian workers and their expertise and encouragement.
the  recently  escalating 
security 
issues  have  slowed  down  State-building 
and  overall  progress.  But,  through  their  patriotism 
and  resilience,  our  national  security  forces  have 
demonstrated  their  readiness  to  face  the  challenges 
posed  by  the  Taliban  and  their  terrorist  and  violent 
extremist  groups.  Furthermore,  President  Ghani  and 
I  prioritized  a  comprehensive  reform  agenda  to  root 
out  corruption  from  our  society  and  institutions  and 
to  promote  transparency  and  efficacy  at  all  levels  of 
Government,  the  judiciary  and  at  the  national  and 
subnational  levels.  An  important  component  of  our 
reform agenda concerns necessary changes in the work 
of our electoral institutions to strengthen the credibility 
and integrity of our future elections. In that respect, the 
reform commission recently presented a comprehensive 
set of recommendations, and we plan appropriate steps 
to implement them. We are confident that those efforts 
will go a long way in the consolidation of participatory 
democracy in our country.
In  addition  to  security  challenges,  the  menace 
of  the  illicit  drug  trade  in  Afghanistan  is  having  an 
adverse impact on the economy and society. However, 
we  have  a  new  comprehensive  action  plan  to  combat 
the drug economy more effectively. We appreciate the 
contributions made by donors, especially the assistance 
provided  by  the  United  States.  We  are  determined  to 
meet the 10-year-long goal of defeating narcotics once 
and for all.
Regional  cooperation  on  the  drug  problem  is 
another key pillar of our strategy. Beyond cooperation 
on  counter-narcotics, 
is 
committed  to  enhancing  regional  engagement  and 
the  unity  Government 
building  constructive  relationships  based  on  win-win 
formulas, and turning Afghanistan into a connectivity 
hub for energy, trade, transit, transport, pipelines and 
fibre optics. The sixth Regional Economic Cooperation 
Conference  on  Afghanistan,  held  in  Kabul  recently, 
agreed  to  work  on  ways  to  develop  and  consolidate 
partnerships  towards  promoting  regional  economic 
cooperation and integration in Afghanistan and across 
the region. Success stories are already taking shape, such 
as the Central Asia South Asia Electricity Transmission 
and Trade Project and the Trans-Afghanistan Pipeline, 
turning  Afghanistan  into  a  land  bridge  connecting 
China and India through South Asia and Central Asia 
to the Middle East and Europe.
My  Government  has  a  strong  political  will 
implement 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
to 
Development (resolution 70/1) with the support of the 
international  community,  while  we  implement  the 
remainder of the Millennium Development Goals and 
targets. 
I would like to add Afghanistan’s voice in support 
of a reformed Security Council that is more inclusive, 
representative  and  transparent.  Like  most  Member 
States,  we  agree  that  the  Security  Council  is  in  dire 
need  of  comprehensive  reforms  to  better  confront 
twenty-first century challenges.
My Government supports the inalienable rights of 
the Palestinian people. We reiterate our long-standing 
position  that  a  two-State  solution  offers  the  best 
guarantee  for  long-term  and  sustainable  solutions  to 
the conflict. 
In  addition,  I  would  like  to  express  my  strongest 
condemnation  of  the  terrible  acts  against  humanity 
committed by all sides in Syria, especially the Islamic 
State in Iraq and Shams. The people of Syria and Iraq 
are suffering. As a war-ravaged country, we feel their 
pain, dispossession and trauma. I call upon the global 
community  to  take  prompt  and  urgent  action  and  to 
facilitate a political solution through talks.
We look to the United Nations to remain beside us 
for years to come on our journey into the transformation 
decade.  As  we  move  forward,  we  expect  a  strategic 
realignment  in  the  support  role  of  the  international 
community and the United Nations. In that regard, we 
welcome the outcome of the work of the tripartite review 
commission to determine the guiding principles of the 
United Nations future engagement in Afghanistan.
15-29425
33/34
A/70/PV.15 
28/09/2015
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  my  Government’s 
steadfast commitment to promoting the very principles 
on  which  the  United  Nations  was  founded.  We  are 
confident that, with the continued support of the family 
of  nations  represented  in  this  noble  Organization,  we 
will  realize  our  shared  goal  of  a  peaceful,  stable  and 
prosperous  nation  that  is  a  catalyst  for  security  and 
prosperity in our region and beyond.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Afghanistan  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chief Executive Officer of 
Afghanistan, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 10.50 p.m.
34/34 
15-29425
