United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
10th plenary meeting
Sunday, 27 September 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Federal  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Austria.
Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal  President  of  the 
Republic of Austria, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Fischer:  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-
General for having convened this Summit to adopt the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  It  is  my  great  pleasure  to  participate  in  this 
historic meeting and to assure the Assembly of Austria’s 
full commitment to this Summit and to the 17 specific 
Goals endorsed by the international community in that 
important document. 
Our  world  has  changed  significantly  since  we 
adopted  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  15  years 
ago.  We  are  faced  with  some  old  challenges  and 
many  new  ones,  such  as  rapid  population  growth, 
the  depletion  of  natural  resources,  the  serious  effects 
of  climate  change  and  massive  refugee  flows.  The 
question of how to ensure sustainable development for 
future generations has become more urgent than ever.
to 
take 
The  year  2015  is  a  year  for  the  international 
community 
important  decisions.  Three 
major  conferences  will  help  to  shape  the  path  to  a 
sustainable future. The third International Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa 
in July, provided us with a new global framework for 
financing sustainable development. The United Nations 
Climate Change Conference to be held in December in 
Paris will be critical to our collective efforts in tackling 
climate  change.  Paris  can  and  must  be  a  success.  We 
need a global, comprehensive and legally binding Paris 
agreement that reflects the highest level of commitment 
from  everyone  to  reach  our  2°  Celsius  target.  We  all 
know  that  reaching  an  agreement  will  not  be  easy, 
but I can assure the Assembly that in Austria and the 
European Union, we will do everything we can to make 
the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties 
a success.
the 
Today,  I  would  like  to  mention  the  invaluable 
contribution  of 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate  Change  (IPCC)  in  providing  scientific  data 
and  analysis.  In  October,  it  will  elect  a  new  Bureau. 
I am pleased to announce that Austria has nominated 
Mr. Nebojša Nakićenović, an internationally renowned 
and respected scientist, to chair the IPCC, and I hope 
the  Assembly  will  be  able  to  support  that  excellent 
candidate.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29247 (E)
*1529247*
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
Now  a  summit  has  convened  to  adopt  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, a new milestone 
on  the  road  to  global  sustainable  development.  The 
Agenda  is  the  outcome  of  nearly  three  years  of 
consultations  among  Member  States,  international 
organizations  and  civil  society  on  an  unprecedented 
scale.  Preparatory  conferences,  such  as  the  second 
United Nations Conference on Landlocked Developing 
Countries,  which  Austria  was  pleased  to  host  in 
November 2014, helped us to focus our attention on the 
most fragile countries.
The new 2030 Agenda provides us with a blueprint 
of how to achieve a better, more just world for all. The 
Sustainable Development Goals build on and complete 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  they  are 
universal  and  applicable  to  every  single  country.  The 
2030 Agenda makes one thing very clear: no one must be 
left behind. Austria takes that message very seriously, 
which  is  why,  in  addition  to  providing  development 
aid  to  other  countries,  the  Austrian  Government  has 
made  education,  the  rule  of  law  and  access  to  justice 
priorities of its national work programme for the years 
2013-2018,  with  a  particular  focus  on  youth,  women, 
the elderly and persons with disabilities.
The 2030 Agenda presents us with the opportunity 
to  make  sustainable  development  a  reality.  To  sum 
up,  I  want  to  reiterate  Austria’s  commitment  to  the 
new  Agenda  and  its  successful  implementation  at  the 
national, regional and international levels.
The President: I thank the Federal President of the 
Republic of Austria for his statement.
Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal  President  of  the 
Republic of Austria, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Rousseff (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text provided by the delegation): The 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) outlines the 
future we want. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
reaffirm the basic tenet of the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development, namely, that it is indeed 
possible  to  grow,  include,  preserve  and  protect.  As 
such, the Goals are clear-cut and genuinely universal. 
They highlight the need for further cooperation among 
the peoples of the world and point towards a shared path 
ahead for humankind.
The innovative Agenda requires global solidarity, 
determination from each one of us and a commitment 
to confronting climate change by overcoming poverty 
and creating opportunities for all. We must strengthen 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change by ensuring that its principles are implemented 
and  respected.  Our  obligations  should  be  ambitious 
and  consistent  with  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities.  The  upcoming  twenty-
first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Framework Convention, to be held in Paris, is a unique 
opportunity for us to build a joint common response to 
the global challenge of climate change.
Brazil has been making vigorous efforts to reduce 
its greenhouse gas emissions without compromising the 
social inclusion component of its social and economic 
development. To that end, we continue to diversify the 
renewable sources in our energy mix, which is among 
the cleanest in the world. We are currently investing in 
low-carbon agriculture. We have reduced deforestation 
in the Amazon rainforest by 82 per cent. The Assembly 
can rest assured that we will continue to undertake such 
ambitious actions.
On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  announce 
that  Brazil  intends  to  contribute  to  the  reduction  of 
greenhouse  emissions  by  eliminating  37  per  cent  of 
its emissions by 2025. Our goal is to reduce emissions 
by  43  per  cent  by  2030.  May  I  remind  the  Assembly 
that the baseline year in both cases is 2005. In the same 
context, by 2030 Brazil intends to adopt measures with 
regard to agriculture, livestock and land use that will 
eliminate  illegal  deforestation,  restore  and  reforest 
12  million  hectares,  recover  15  million  hectares  of 
degraded  pastures,  and  create  5  million  hectares  of 
integrated agricultural crop, livestock and forested area 
practices.
On  the  energy  front,  it  is  our  intention  to  meet 
the  following  ambitious  objectives.  First,  we  intend 
to ensure that the share of renewable resources in the 
total energy mix is 45 per cent. It should be noted that 
the global average for such a share is just 13 per cent. 
For  the  countries  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development,  it  has  been  no  greater 
than  7  per  cent.  Secondly  and  thirdly  on  our  energy 
agenda,  we  are  committed  to  having  a  66  per  cent 
hydropower  component  and  a  23  per  cent  renewable 
energy  component  —  wind,  solar  and  biomass 
2/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
power  —  in  our  total  electricity  output.  Fourthly, 
we  intend  to  increase  by  10  per  cent  our  electricity 
efficiency rate. Fifthly, we expect ethanol fuel derived 
from sugarcane biomass sources to provide 16 per cent 
of the total energy mix.
In short, the adaptation measures required to meet 
the  challenge  of  climate  change  will  be  accompanied 
by significant changes in land use, forestry practices, 
livestock  management,  agricultural  practices  and 
energy production and consumption patterns.
With  regard 
to  Goal  13  of 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  our  stance  is  such  that  we  will 
certainly  contribute  to  improving  the  environment. 
Brazil is thus decisively helping to ensure that the world 
will be in a position to implement the recommendations 
made  by  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change, which has established a limit of 2° Celsius as 
the maximum temperature increase for this century.
Brazil  is  one  of  the  few  developing  countries 
to  commit  to  an  absolute  target  for  the  reduction  of 
greenhouse gas emissions. We have one of the world’s 
largest  populations  and  gross  domestic  products,  and 
our goals and targets are just as ambitious, if not more 
so,  than  those  of  developed  countries.  Our  intended 
national  contribution  takes  into  account  mitigation 
and  adaptation  initiatives,  as  well  as  specific  needs 
in  the  areas  of  financing,  technology  transfer  and 
capacity-building. It includes actions that increase the 
resilience of the environment and reduce the impact of 
the risks associated with the negative effects of climate 
change on the poor and more vulnerable sectors of the 
population.  It  puts  special  emphasis  on  gender  issues 
and workers’ rights, as well as on Maroon, indigenous 
and other traditional communities. We also recognize 
the  importance  of  South-South  cooperation  in  global 
efforts to combat climate change.
social  policies  and  cash 
We  must  underscore  that  the  social  and  inclusive 
aspects  of  these  efforts  are  essential  to  their  success. 
Since  2003, 
transfer 
programmes  have  helped  lift  more  than  36  million 
Brazilians  out  of  extreme  poverty.  Last  year,  Brazil 
was taken off the World Hunger Map. I should note that 
we were able to achieve that status thanks to our zero-
hunger programme, which has now evolved to become 
one  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Recently, 
owing to a policy aimed at increasing minimum wages, 
the population’s purchasing power has grown. We have 
made  major  social  progress  in  areas  such  as  housing 
programmes,  access  to  basic  education,  public  health 
services  and  gender  equality.  We  achieved  those 
results because we understand clearly that poverty is a 
multidimensional problem.
In  the  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy,  we 
believe that everyone should be able to work in decent, 
fair conditions. Sustainable development requires that 
all  of  us  commit  to  ensuring  dignified  conditions, 
the creation of good jobs and opportunities and equal 
access  to  education  and  health  care.  Even  if  we  face 
difficulties,  Brazil  will  not  cut  back  on  its  social 
progress.  That  is  the  future  we  want  and  that  we  are 
all  working  to  build.  Our  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty 
and promote development must be collective and global 
in  scope,  hence  the  importance  of  the  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  In  my  country,  we  have  learned 
one lesson very well, which is that the end of extreme 
poverty is only the start of a long journey.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Federative Republic of Brazil for her statement.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Constitutional President of the Republic 
of Ecuador.
Mr. Rafael Correa, Constitutional President of the 
Republic of Ecuador, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Correa (spoke in Spanish): Ecuador will 
meet the 21 targets of the 8 Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). So far we have met 20 of them, some 
ahead  of  time  and  to  a  higher  standard  than  was 
originally agreed on. The target we are still working on 
is the reduction of maternal mortality by at least 75 per 
cent. To date, we have achieved a reduction of 68 per 
cent,  and  we  are  implementing  a  specific  strategy  to 
meet the target this year. Those results have been made 
possible  by  an  unprecedented  public  investment,  one 
of  the  highest  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
particularly in the social sector.
When my party came to power in 2007, we reaffirmed 
our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), but not without questioning the way they were 
conceived. Eight years ago, in the General Assembly at 
its sixty-second session (see A/62/PV.7), I warned about 
the limitations of the underlying concept, since it was 
based on minimum principles that did not grapple with 
the profound social and economic asymmetries of our 
world. We in Ecuador felt that subscribing exclusively 
15-29247
3/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
to a set of minimums was very risky. The MDGs were 
sufficient  to  satisfy  consciences,  but  limited  in  their 
ability to generate genuine social change.
Overcoming  poverty  is  a  moral  imperative  for 
humankind  because,  for  the  first  time  in  history, 
it  results  not  from  a  scarcity  of  resources  but  from 
perverse  and  exclusionary  systems.  The  best  strategy 
for  reducing  poverty  is  reducing  social,  economic, 
territorial,  environmental  and  cultural  gaps.  That 
is  why  we  are  very  pleased  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  stresses 
specific  targets  aimed  at  achieving  equitability  in  all 
those aspects — social, economic, gender, ethnic and 
territorial. All of that implies better income and wealth 
distribution within and among societies, as well as the 
elimination of illegitimate ways of accumulating wealth, 
such  as  unfair  inheritance  laws,  land  speculation, 
unexploited capital and profits derived from damage to 
the environment.
Development  of  public  policies  in  a  country  that 
attempts  radical  change,  such  as  Ecuador,  cannot  be 
limited to minimum goals, because we would run the risk 
of adopting the view that  human life is simply a process 
of resistance, with the goal of extending people’s lives 
by  a  few  hours.  Therefore,  we  proposed  shared  goals 
concerning not only minimum requirements for life but 
social  maximums.  A  perspective  based  on  minimum 
goals  would  legitimize  our  current  reality  and  would 
not seek to bridge the gaps or the power relationships 
among people nor among societies. At best, minimum 
goals  should  be  seen  as  a  start  and  a  temporary 
objective,  and  never  as  an  ongoing  modus  operandi 
of  public  policy,  since  that  puts  the  beneficiaries  in  a 
position of inferiority to the rest.
In Ecuador, what we understand by development is 
achieving  well-being  for  all  in  peace  and  in  harmony 
with  nature  and  the  continued  preservation  of  human 
cultures. In that regard, we are particularly pleased that 
in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  there  is  heavy 
emphasis on preserving our planet. Ecuador is the only 
country  in  the  world  that  grants  rights  to  nature.  We 
are talking not just about addressing the environmental 
degradation  of 
introducing 
a  new  economic  logic  in  which  the  creation  of 
environmental value and environmental public goods, 
not just commercial ones, is rewarded. We must create 
alternative forms of development rather than alternatives 
to development. We must build societies that work with 
the market rather than being owned by the market. We 
the  Earth,  but  about 
must proceed based on the realization that the dominant 
forms of production and consumption, which ignore the 
limits  of  our  ecosystem  and  seek  endless  growth  and 
accumulation, are not viable. What we need is for the 
major  countries  to  spend  less  time  on  diagnosing  our 
underdevelopment and more on questioning their own 
model of development. 
That is why we are also very pleased to see that many 
of  the  new  Goals  —  six  altogether  —  are  associated 
with care for our planet, the only one we have. The well-
being we promote also implies the expansion of the real 
freedoms, opportunities and potentials of individuals. 
In  that  regard,  the  immoral  paradox  that,  on  the  one 
hand,  we  advocate  for  the  free  circulation  of  goods 
and capital in search of maximum profit, while, on the 
other hand, we punish the free circulation of persons in 
search of dignified work, becomes simply unacceptable 
and unsustainable from an ethical standpoint.
To the Government of Ecuador, there are no illegal 
human  beings,  and  the  United  Nations  should  insist 
on  that  point.  The  migration  policies  of  the  wealthy 
nations are frankly shameful. We need an agenda with 
a  focus  on  rights,  one  in  which  human  mobility  is 
not  criminalized  and  people  are  not  deprived  of  their 
fundamental  rights.  The  absence  in  the  2030  Agenda 
of a specific goal on the free movement of persons is 
a  regrettable  omission.  We  need  an  agenda  that  lends 
its ear to the words of the young poet Warsan Shire: no 
one puts their children in a boat unless water is safer 
than land.
We  place  our  hopes,  dear  friends  of  the  whole 
world, in a development agenda in which the sense of 
humanity prevails over the rule of capital. Otherwise, 
we  will  simply  continue  to  affirm  goals  and  targets 
when what we need is to renew our entire compact as a 
civilization.
The President: I thank the Constitutional President 
of the Republic of Ecuador for his statement.
Mr.  Rafael  Correa,  Constitutional  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Ecuador,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
Mr.  Dragan  Čović,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
4/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
Mr. Čović (spoke in Bosnian; English text provided 
by the delegation): It is a great honour for me to address 
this historic Summit, which is devoted to issues that are 
crucial for both the present moment and the future of 
all the inhabitants of our planet. United by our strong 
belief  in  the  values  enshrined  in  the  Organization’s 
founding  Charter,  we  have  committed  ourselves  to 
giving full life and new meaning to the vision of a just 
and  sustainable  world  free  from  poverty,  fear  and  all 
forms of oppression.
In  our  lifetime,  we  have  witnessed  achievements 
beyond  anything  our  ancestors  could  have  imagined. 
Extraordinary  technological  progress  has  propelled 
our economies and our societies. Progress in reducing 
hunger has been slow and uneven, but the results to date 
give us reason to hope that the scourge of hunger can be 
eliminated in our lifetime. Average life expectancy has 
more  than  doubled  over  the  past  century,  and  we  can 
proudly  say  that  more  children  than  ever  are  exactly 
where  they  belong  —  in  classrooms.  Yet,  we  should 
be  seriously  troubled  that  we  have  inflicted  so  much 
damage  on  both  the  planet  and  ourselves  during  the 
past decades.
The  most  serious  threats  facing  our  world  today 
too  well  known:  poverty, 
are  unfortunately  all 
unemployment,  natural  disasters,  violence 
and 
terrorism.  Day  after  day,  new  reports  of  unspeakable 
human  suffering  from  a  number  of  conflict  areas, 
including  an  immense  refugee  crisis,  demand  our 
urgent  and  meaningful  response.  A  rapid  and  united 
effort is required to address all those threats, along with 
stronger determination to redress the consequences of 
our  past  mistakes  and  wrongdoings.  We  should  build 
our  approach  on  the  positive  experiences  and  lessons 
learned,  in  order  to  achieve  the  comprehensive  and 
ambitious 2030 Agenda. for Sustainable Developmebnt 
(resolution 70/1).
The  strongest  message  we  should  send  at  this 
historical moment is our renewed sense of responsibility 
and  our  resolve  to  act  together  with  all  stakeholders. 
Such an inclusive Agenda is a guarantee that no one will 
be left behind. To that end, an appropriate balance must 
be struck across the economic, social and environmental 
spheres. Effective and integrated solutions are possible 
only through a systems-based approach across all three 
dimensions of sustainable development. We see no way 
to  achieve  sustainable  development  in  the  true  sense 
of  the  words  except  through  a  positive  and  constant 
change.
The  world  15  years  from  now  can  and  should  be 
a  place  of  universal  respect  for  human  rights.  We 
must  continue  working  to  advance  the  role  of  women 
and  their  full  engagement  in  the  development  of  our 
societies,  especially  in  decision-making  processes. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  remains  committed  to  the 
protection and promotion of human rights and respect 
for the fundamental freedoms of all, without distinction, 
as reflected in the Summit outcome document.
The past five years have demonstrated to the people 
of  my  country  the  true  meaning  of  climate  change, 
which  is  not  only  and  exclusively  about  different 
weather  conditions.  In  reality,  it  is  more  about  not 
producing any food during dry years and people being 
forced  to  leave  their  homes  during  floods.  It  is  about 
the scarcity of clean, safe, potable water, a commodity 
and luxury in times of droughts and floods.
That is why, along with millions of people around 
the world, we are putting our faith in the forthcoming 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held in Paris in December. We must believe that the 
outcome of that session will deliver the progress we so 
urgently need. Therefore, we call upon the parties to the 
Convention to redouble their efforts to reach a legally 
binding and universal climate change agreement.
There  is  without  a  doubt  a  strong  relationship 
linking  peace,  stability  and  sustainable  development. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  will  continue  to  work  with 
our  neighbours  and  international  partners,  in  an 
atmosphere  of  mutual  respect  and  tolerance,  to  take 
proactive, strategic steps to strengthen peace, stability 
and  prosperity  in  our  region.  In  that  regard,  I  can 
assure  the  Assembly  of  my  country’s  strong  support 
for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Our own 
dedication to fostering sustainable, effective and steady 
economic  growth  and,  through  functional  democratic 
institutions,  to  build  a  just  social  environment  is 
endorsed  in  the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  2015-2018 
reform agenda that we recently adopted.
Even the best strategies sometimes fail to produce 
the desired outcome if not supported by equally credible 
means  of  implementation.  Investment  in  educational, 
institutional,  technological  and  human  capacities  is 
therefore of paramount importance for many developing 
countries, 
and  Herzegovina. 
Developing, implementing and monitoring our national 
strategies  must  include  resources  and  efforts  from  all 
including  Bosnia 
15-29247
5/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
stakeholders - parliamentarians, academia, civil society 
and the private sector.
Almost  all  the  troubles  we  face  today  recognize 
no borders. Neither should solidarity in our world. As 
we see it, solidarity should combine responsibility and 
respect for national ownership of development, on the 
one  hand,  and  readiness  to  provide  assistance,  on  the 
other.
An  enhanced  global  partnership  for  sustainable 
development must be a genuine global platform for the 
exchange of best practices in finance, trade, technology 
and capacity-building. The Addis Ababa Action Agenda, 
in its comprehensiveness, has provided us with a strong 
foundation for revitalization and for the implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  As 
a first step, we should undoubtedly start with what is 
today  openly  recognized  as  our  unfinished  business: 
the full realization of all the Millennium Development 
Goals. We should keep our promises. 
Today,  our  people  not  only  look  up  to  us.  They 
believe  that  the  world  can  still  change  for  the  better. 
Equality,  prosperity,  dignity  and  security  for  every 
human being are what future generations need from us, 
and I am convinced that we can — and must — deliver 
them.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for his statement.
Mr. Dragan Čović, Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
President Maduro Moros (spoke in Spanish): We 
are witnessing the signs of a new era for humankind. 
The  United  Nations  system  is  marking  its  seventieth 
anniversary  since  it  began  its  effort  to  heal  the  deep 
wounds of the most destructive war that humankind has 
ever  known.  The  Second  World  War  left  its  physical 
traces on millions of women and men, as well as deep 
moral  traces  —  the  marks  of  the  struggle  against 
fascism and Nazism and their various manifestations of 
contempt for the human essence and the diverse forms 
of human culture and civilization. Seventy years ago, 
humankind  began  to  build  a  system  to  come  together 
and, as Pope Francis said just days ago from this very 
rostrum  (see  A/70/PV.3),  to  map  a  path  towards  the 
construction of our common home, the common home 
of humankind.
We  are  approaching  the  end  of  this  Summit, 
convened  to  set  the  goals  shared  by  our  countries, 
peoples  and  Governments  for  social  development, 
a  Summit  whose  core  purpose  is  to  review  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  define  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  I  would  like  to 
congratulate all the delegations on their work of many 
months evaluating the Goals for 2000 to 2015, and to 
acknowledge their success in integrating proposals from 
various countries and Governments with their various 
visions to arrive at what we have just adopted, the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
In  Venezuela’s  view,  the  2030  Agenda  is  one  for 
the development of a world of equals and is designed 
to  eradicate  the  inequalities  that  are  the  mother  and 
the  source  of  all  misery  and  poverty,  of  discardable 
cultures, as Pope Francis said in his visit to Cuba and 
the United States. Poverty is the child of the inequality 
imposed  by  systems  of  domination  that  for  centuries 
enveloped  our  planet,  tore  Africa  apart  and  imposed 
colonialism  and  slavery.  Inequality  is  the  child  of  all 
the  forms  of  domination,  exclusion  and  exploitation 
that  devastated  the  aboriginal  and  primeval  cultures 
that, to our great pride, are represented in our America 
today by our brother Evo Morales Ayma.
Inequality is the mother of all misery and poverty. 
If we wish to set lofty goals, as we are doing, and if we 
wish to meet the lofty goals we have set ourselves — the 
17 Goals and 169 targets defined by our delegations and 
now  established  bu  us,  aimed  at  making  progress  on 
such major issues as overcoming poverty, establishing 
inclusive,  free  and  high-quality  public  education, 
universal health care, the right to housing and a clean 
environment, that is, respect for Mother Earth — if we 
wish to advance the cause of the lofty Goals and targets 
we have set, there can be no doubt that the world must 
plan on building different economic and social models 
and a different model for power relationships over the 
next 15 years.
There  is  no  other  way.  That  is  what  we  say 
in  Venezuela,  where  over  the  past  15  years  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals we have lived through 
one  of  the  most  beautiful,  profound  and  significant 
processes  in  our  history,  in  which,  together  with  our 
6/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
brothers  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  we 
have undergone an awakening, a reinvigoration of the 
struggle fought in the past by the poor, the forgotten and 
the wretched of the Earth. In the years between 2000 
and 2015, Venezuela accomplished an economic, social 
and  political  revolution,  the  Bolivarian  revolution, 
inspired  by  the  original,  fundamental  cause  of  our 
liberator Simón Bolívar and designed, directed and led 
by our unforgettable leader, Hugo Chávez Frías.
The 
first  step  was 
regaining  our  political 
independence,  the  capacity  to  make  decisions  about 
our national affairs and plan how to invest our national 
wealth. The second was recovering our natural resources, 
particularly  the  wealth  generated  by  Venezuelan  oil, 
through the nationalization and sovereign management 
of the basic resources produced on our land — in this 
case, oil. The third step was constitutionally reinstating 
our people’s fundamental rights, which for decades had 
been denied them by the domestic systems of oppression 
that corresponded to the systems of oppression of world 
Powers outside our country.
That  path  taken  by  our  people,  we  humbly  say 
today  at  this  Summit,  a  path  that  marked  a  profound 
and  genuine  revolution,  has  put  us  in  a  position  to 
begin  to  construct  and  put  into  practice  a  system  of 
redistribution of wealth and to re-establish the elements 
of  economic  and  social  equality  and  equal  access  to 
wealth.  From  the  very  beginning  of  the  Bolivarian 
revolution,  our  leader  Hugo  Chávez  said  that  if  we 
wished to overcome poverty, we must give power to the 
poor and power to the people. And when we speak of 
power, we mean national power first of all. When we 
speak  of  power,  we  mean  power  for  the  citizens  and 
the humble: social, economic and civic power. We mean 
empowering the people so that they themselves can take 
charge of building their own happiness and overcoming 
their own situation.
Today, Venezuela can actually present a satisfactory 
record  —  a  positive  balance  sheet  —  to  the  General 
Assembly. Today, Venezuela can say that the immense 
wealth of our country has been distributed through our 
investment in education, housing, health care, the right 
to food and the right to life. 
We have managed to reverse the exclusionary trends 
of  capitalist  throwaway  culture,  to  paraphrase  Pope 
Francis. Whereas in the past we invested barely 33 per 
cent  of  the  national  income  or  national  wealth,  today 
Venezuela invests 62 per cent of its national wealth in 
the development of our people, in promoting equality 
and  reducing  poverty  and  extreme  poverty,  with  the 
resulting  indices  showing  significant  improvements 
in  education,  health  care,  employment  and  labour 
remuneration. 
labour  conditions 
We  have  managed  to  reverse  the  trends  towards 
deregulating 
for  workers  and 
creating precarious employment that exploits workers, 
especially the youngest workers. The right to stable and 
decent work, as proclaimed in various United Nations 
system  instruments,  or  what  we  call  the  right  to  fair 
and egalitarian work, is a fundamental right if we want 
the goal to be our peoples’ proactively overcoming their 
difficulties  and  lifting  themselves  out  of  poverty  and 
extreme poverty.
We  have  fully  and  wholeheartedly  adopted  the 
17 Goals proposed for the years 2015 to 2030. The 17 
Goals  are  designed  to  eradicate  poverty,  put  an  end 
to  hunger,  ensure  health  care,  guarantee  a  quality 
education,  attain  gender  equality,  guarantee 
the 
availability  and  sustainable  management  of  water, 
and ensure access to energy on a fair basis, as we are 
currently  doing  through  the  special  inclusive  projects 
based on solidarity and brotherhood under the auspices 
of Petrocaribe. Petrocaribe is sponsoring joint projects 
to provide 18 Caribbean States with genuine access to 
energy, an undertaking that I deem worthy of study by 
the committees that will follow up on the Agenda.
The Agenda is a set of 17 Goals designed to foster 
equitable  economic  growth  and  the  transformation  of 
an economic model, as provided for in Goal 8. Without 
the transformation of the unfair, single-vision economic 
model  that  attempts  to  impose  political  and  social 
conditions  that  are  unacceptable  for  our  peoples —  a 
model imposed by the International Monetary Fund and 
the World Bank on our countries — it will be impossible 
to work towards and attain the desired, lofty, necessary 
and  just  Goals  for  2015-2030.  Only  after  a  profound 
transformation of the economic system and a total and 
absolute change of the system imposed by the one-track, 
neoliberal  thinking  that  the  International  Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank espouse will the Goals and 
targets  for  poverty  eradication  and  universal  social 
happiness proposed today be economically viable and 
sustainable.
The year 2030 is a target date that must bind us all. 
After reviewing the history of the past 15 years, and of 
the 70 years of the United Nations system, and the great 
challenges  and  serious  problems  faced  by  humankind 
during those years, we can be sure that the next 15 years 
15-29247
7/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
will  bring  great  challenges  as  we  seek  to  consolidate 
world peace, strengthen new, fair, equitable, equality-
based, inclusive — and non-exclusionary — economic 
relations and construct social and technological models 
that will allow our peoples to gain access to rights that 
today are denied to over 1.2 billion poor people. These 
are important topics that the United Nations will have 
to  address.  While  it  is  true  that  for  the  attainment  of 
these  social  goals  a  new  economic  model  becomes 
necessary and new ways of creating equality must be 
considered,  it  is  also  true  —  or  so  we  believe  in  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela — that a system of 
guarantees to safeguard peace and sovereignty for our 
peoples is also necessary.
It  is  worth  taking  a  look  at  the  tragedies  being 
endured  today  by  the  Arab  peoples  and  our  brothers 
and sisters in Africa and Asia, as well as at the most 
tragic and painful mass migration in the last 70 years 
that is playing out in the Mediterranean and European 
countries. Why is there such mass migration if it is not 
a flight from misery and pain? There is only one cause: 
unfair wars of aggression that are aimed at conquering 
entire  nations.  A  review  of  the  15  years  in  which  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  have  been  in  place 
raises  the  question,  why  is  that  region  of  the  world 
living a horror movie? It seems that millions of Muslim 
Arab brothers and sisters in the Middle East are looking 
for  a  shred  of  peace,  a  beacon  of  hope.  The  specific 
concrete cause that has had a negative impact on these 
fraternal peoples of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria 
is none other than unfair imperialist wars, the attempt 
to control the world by a single hegemonic Power that 
wants to dominate people.
We must put an end to unfair systems and imperialist 
wars  so  that  there  can  be  truly  humane  conditions 
for  moving  forward  to  attain  the  lofty  objectives  that 
humankind has been able to identify and build during 
the 70 years of existence of the United Nations system. 
As Pope Francis said to a full house, and was greeted 
by  heartfelt  applause  by  the  representatives  of  all 
cultures and peoples, if we wish to have a shared house 
by 2030 — and we in Venezuela have that dream and 
will struggle indefatigably to make it come true — we 
need to have a shared house without imperialist wars, 
without  wars  of  destruction,  without  racism,  without 
xenophobia, without contempt and without inequality. 
We must think about a common cause uniting peoples 
whose relations are based on respect for international 
law and peoples who are committed to the 2030 Agenda 
because they see it as a great human agenda for building 
peace, happiness and universal justice.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela expresses its 
happiness with, and its intention to abide by, the 2030 
Agenda.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for his statement.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Serbia.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Nikolić (spoke in Serbian; English text 
provided by the delegation): Here at the Headquarters 
of  the  United  Nations,  during  this  Summit,  we  have 
adopted an ambitious transformational agenda, the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
with Goals and targets intended to substantively change 
our civilization for the better during the next 15 years. 
A  difficult  and  unprecedented  task  lies  ahead  of  us: 
eradicating poverty — particularly  extreme poverty —
by 2030 and laying the foundations for maintaining the 
sustainable development of our planet for the benefit of 
future generations.
The positive results of the Millennium Development 
Goals — such as the reduction by half of the percentage 
of people living in extreme poverty, which we achieved 
ahead of time — led us to believe that the transformation 
of our world is possible. In the twenty-first century, we 
live an era of tremendous technological achievements, 
which  for  the  first  time  in  human  history  provide  a 
realistic  opportunity  for  not  simply  each  country  but 
each individual to achieve sustainable development. No 
one should be left behind or forgotten.
For  more  than  two  years,  our  diplomats  and  our 
civil  societies,  private  business  sectors  and  academia 
negotiated  a  new  set  of  proposals  formulated  in  the 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  for  2030. 
They  are  comprehensive  and  touch  upon  almost  all 
elements  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
development.  These  universal  Goals  apply  to  all 
countries, rich and poor, with particular concern for the 
sizable part of the population living in extreme poverty 
on as little as $1.25 a day.
8/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
Our  generation  has  a  moral  obligation  to  create 
in  today’s  world  conditions  in  which  no  one  goes 
hungry, gender equality prevails and women and girls 
are  empowered.  We  must  end  the  harmful  effects  of 
the  warming  of  our  planet,  which  is  threatened  by 
large-scale climate change. All too often an alarm bell 
rings, and all too often we experience natural disasters, 
droughts  and  floods,  such  as  those  that,  with  tragic 
consequences, struck my country and the region hard 
a year ago.
It was not easy to reach consensus on the new global 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Yet we all 
share this planet of ours. Not only do we have no other 
home to go to, but we have the duty to do everything we 
can to preserve it and to ensure sustainable development, 
including for the most vulnerable among us. 
Of  course,  the  key  question  is  how  to  effectively 
implement  such  an  ambitious  Agenda.  In  July,  at 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  we  reached  consensus  on  sustainable 
development financing modalities through the adoption 
of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. We agreed on the 
need to mobilize all financial resources — public, private, 
domestic, international and miscellaneous. We agreed 
to fulfil the obligation to commit 0.7 per cent of gross 
national income to official development assistance, and 
0.15 per cent to 0.20 per cent of that amount to the least 
developed countries. Technology transfer, indebtedness 
and  reaching  trade  agreements  were  also  high  on  the 
Conference  agenda.  We  reaffirmed  the  principle  that 
every  country  has  the  primary  responsibility  for  its 
own  development  and  that  it  must  create  conditions 
for  progress  and  prosperity  through  good  governance 
and the rule of law, combating corruption and halting 
illegal financial flows.
Mr. Rafael Correa (Ecuador), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Serbia  actively  participated  in  the  formulation  of 
the global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
The  negotiations  in  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable Development Goals, of which my country 
was a member, were kick-started when a Serbian was 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh  session.  Serbia  also  took  part  in  the  work 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable Development Financing.
As  a  middle-income, 
in 
transition,  Serbia  still  shoulders  the  heavy  burden 
landlocked  country 
of  caring  for  a  large  number  of  refugees  and  persons 
displaced in and after the conflicts in our region, while 
coping with the development problems that many other 
countries  face.  The  dramatic  and  uncontrolled  influx 
of migrants — who in tens of thousands transit Serbia 
in search of shelter and a better life and who wait for 
days to cross the border into the European Union — is 
a challenge that we must all address together if we are 
to achieve a solution.
Serbia  firmly  believes  that  development  is  not 
possible  without  peace  and  stability.  We  strongly 
support  Goal  16,  on  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies, 
and  in  that  context  we  believe  in  investing  continued 
efforts in developing good neighbourly relations in the 
region.  That  is  because  the  process  of  reconciliation 
and cooperation has no alternative.
As in other countries of the region, the unemployment 
rate in Serbia continues to be high, especially for young 
people, and the rate of economic growth is low. As in 
many  other  countries,  the  economic  recession  has 
spiralled upward since the onset of the global financial 
crisis. In cooperation with the International Monetary 
Fund and with its support, we have made considerable 
efforts towards fiscal consolidation. With painful cuts 
across the board, we have managed to reduce Serbia’s 
fiscal  deficit  from  7  per  cent  to  its  current  level  of 
approximately 3 per cent. We expect that this year the 
gross national product will begin to grow.
As a European Union candidate country, Serbia has 
harmonized  its  legislative  system  with  the  European 
Union’s body of law and has taken important steps to 
reform its economy, rebuild its infrastructure, tap into 
sustainable energy resources and tackle environmental 
problems. We fully understand that success in attaining 
sustainable  development  is  not  possible  without  all-
round  regional  cooperation.  We  shall  therefore  hold 
consultations  in  Belgrade  later  this  year  to  discuss 
with  our  regional  partners  how  to  work  together  in 
implementing the Agenda.
We  have  embarked  upon  an  ambitious  and 
unprecedented  project.  Failure  must  not,  and  cannot, 
be an option. Our generation has a historic opportunity 
to set our civilization on the course towards achieving 
sustainable  development,  prosperity  and  peace,  and  I 
trust that that opportunity will not be ignored.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the President of the Republic of Serbia for his statement.
15-29247
9/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Tajikistan.
Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Rahmon  (spoke  in  Tajik;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  This  year  is  the  final 
year  for  the  implementation  of  the  2015  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  lessons  learned 
during  their  implementation  were  used  as  a  basis  for 
the  post-2015  Sustainable  Development  Agenda.  The 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals played an important role in the process and, over 
the past two years, managed to identify and agree on 17 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to be achieved 
by 2030.
We  will  soon  begin  to  implement  the  new  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
We  will  do  so  against  the  background  and  increasing 
impact  of  such  global  threats  and  challenges  as 
international  terrorism  and  extremism,  illicit  drug 
trafficking, 
transnational  organized  crime,  armed 
conflicts  and  financial,  economic,  food  and  energy 
crises, 
the  degradation  of  natural 
resources  and  climate  change,  natural  and  human-
caused  disasters  and  infectious  diseases,  all  of  which 
seriously  undermine  security  and  stability  in  the 
world  and  can  slow  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development.
together  with 
In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  the  international 
community should bolster its efforts to create a global 
environment that is conducive to the implementation of 
the Sustainable Development Goals. The new Agenda 
is unique because it lays down the specific Goals and 
targets  for  sustainable  development  in  its  three  key 
dimensions — economic, social and environmental — in 
a  balanced  and  integrated  manner.  We  are  convinced 
that  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  aimed  at 
addressing poverty eradication, ensuring food security, 
improving  health  care  and  education,  ensuring  the 
sustainable  use  of  water  resources,  improving  access 
to  cost-effective  and  reliable  energy  sources,  the 
establishment of advanced infrastructure, the adoption 
of  urgent  measures  to  combat  climate  change  and  its 
impact, the reduction of inequality among countries and 
the achievement of gender equality on a global scale are 
a logical continuation of the Millennium Development 
Goals.
As  a  pilot  country  for  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs,  Tajikistan  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
process  of  improving  the  previous  MDG  agenda  and 
realizing  the  new  post-2015  development  agenda. 
The  Republic  of  Tajikistan  participated  actively  in 
developing  and  coordinating  the  global  development 
agenda  beyond  2015  by  taking  an  active  part  in  and 
contributing  to  the  global  dialogue.  Our  Government 
held  a  number  of  national  consultations  aimed  at 
reflecting  the  aspirations  of  a  wide  spectrum  of  the 
population  concerning  the  future  they  want.  The 
Government  of  Tajikistan  is  currently  developing 
its  new  national  development  strategy  2030  and  the 
mid-term  development  programme  for  the  period 
2016-2020,  which  outline  the  priority  areas  for  the 
country’s  sustainable  development  and  will  take  into 
account,  where  possible,  the  targets  identified  by  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  the 
United  Nations  country  programme  action  plan  for 
Tajikistan for 2016-2020 will be particularly useful.
the  country’s  population 
The  primary  objective  of  both  the  programme 
and  the  strategy  being  developed  is  to  improve  the 
well-being  of 
through 
sustainable  social  and  economic  development.  In 
order  to  successfully  address  the  set  of  complex 
social, economic and environmental issues within the 
framework of the country’s 2030 national development 
strategy, we have identified the importance of setting 
strategic  goals  —,  such  as  ensuring  energy  security, 
breaking communication deadlocks and ensuring food 
security  —  without  which  the  implementation  of  the 
SDGs would be rather difficult. 
To  achieve  those  goals,  we  need  to  implement  a 
number of projects at the national, regional and global 
levels.  The  priority  areas  are  more  efficient  use  of 
natural resources and human capital, the diversification 
of the national economy to enhance its competitiveness, 
the  development  of  the  country’s  institutions,  the 
strengthening of the middle class and the achievement 
of  equal  levels  of  development  in  all  regions  of  the 
country.
In  order  to  successfully  implement  those  targets, 
it  is  essential  to  mobilize  the  necessary  resources. 
That remains a challenge because of the ever-changing 
dynamics  of  international  relations  and  the  emerging 
crises in various regions of the world. In that context, 
10/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
increases  in  official  development  assistance,  which 
important  component  of  financing  for 
forms  an 
development,  remains  critical.  Under 
the  current 
circumstances,  it  is  crucial  to  facilitate  international 
trade  and  investment,  which  are  the  main  engines  of 
productive growth, and to encourage and promote the 
transfer  of  innovative  and  environmentally  friendly 
technologies.
It  is  obvious  that  the  path  towards  sustainable 
development  is  not  going  to  be  easy  or  smooth.  For 
that reason, it is important that we show determination 
and  lend  a  hand  to  those  countries  facing  the  most 
difficulties.  It  should  be  remembered  that  a  number 
of  countries  will  start  implementing  the  new  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  in  less  than  favourable 
conditions.  There  is  a  need  to  support  countries  in 
specific  situations,  in  particular  the  countries  with 
mountainous  and  inaccessible  terrain  and  landlocked 
developing countries.
international  community, 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
Tajikistan  will  continue  to  actively  cooperate  with 
the 
the  United  Nations 
institutions and programmes and partner countries and 
organizations interested in successfully implementing 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  for  his 
statement.
Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Plevneliev: We have just adopted a new 
development agenda. The post-2015 process is a unique 
global  effort  aimed  at  ending  poverty  and  achieving 
sustainable  development  for  all,  while  protecting  the 
planet  and  its  resources.  The  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States  representatives  of  civil  society  and 
the private sector and academia all participated in the 
deliberation process.
Bulgaria  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
This  forward-looking  and  ambitious  new  Agenda 
integrates the three pillars of sustainable development, 
thus  outlining  the  links  between  poverty  eradication, 
sustainable  economic  development  and  peaceful  and 
stable societies. It is an impressive and transformative 
Agenda in many ways. For the first time in history, a 
document  of  global  scale  places  special  emphasis  on 
the  individual,  leaving  no  one  behind.  The  Agenda 
is  people-centred  and  based  on  the  principles  of 
universality, inclusiveness and shared responsibilities.
During the intergovernmental negotiations, Bulgaria 
strongly advocated, in its national capacity and as part 
of the European Union, for the elaboration of a human 
rights-based  agenda.  Every  effort  has  been  made  to 
eliminate  all  forms  of  inequality  and  discrimination. 
As  one  of  the  co-chairs  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of 
Children and Sustainable Development Goals, Bulgaria 
worked  for  the  integration  of  children’s  human  rights 
in all aspects of development policies, placing children 
at the heart of the Agenda. For the first time, children 
and  youth  were  considered  active  participants  in  all 
processes that affect their lives.
The Sustainable Development Goals that we have 
agreed on are ambitious and need bold and determined 
actions  to  be  fully  implemented.  Bulgaria  will  make 
every  effort  to  implement  the  new  Agenda  and 
achieve  its  Goals  of  eradicating  poverty,  eliminating 
inequalities and fostering a peaceful, just and inclusive 
society based on the rule of law. Our country will also 
continue to do its best to help more vulnerable nations 
achieve those ambitious Goals.
The  way  in  which  the  Agenda  was  adopted 
is  indicative  of  the  strong  political  will  for  its 
implementation.  Balance  was  achieved  between  the 
commitments contained in the document and the means 
for  their  implementation.  However,  robust  national 
and  international  accountability  should  be  sought 
through the participation of all stakeholders, including 
Governments,  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and 
academia.
The adoption of the post-2015 development agenda 
represents  a  success  for  the  international  community. 
The  implementation  of  the  new  Agenda  should  be 
guided by the principles of accountability, transparency 
and  inclusiveness.  The  monitoring  and  review  of  its 
implementation should be based on a well-defined set of 
global indicators, as well as on the timely collection of 
disaggregated data. We welcome the ongoing work on 
the part of the United Nations Statistical Commission 
in that regard.
15-29247
11/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
The  decisions  that  we  make  today  will  affect  all 
of us over the next 15 years. The Agenda is a joint and 
consensual effort and is, at this point, the only viable 
solution that we have for dealing with the challenges we 
face. And we need to deliver.
Bulgaria believes the focus should now be on the 
implementation of the new Agenda Goals, and we are 
fully committed to contribute to their success.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Bulgaria  for  his 
statement.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of South Africa.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Zuma:  Seventy  years  ago,  at  the  birth 
of the United Nations, the drafters of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  pledged  in  the  Preamble  “To  promote 
social  progress  and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger 
freedom”. The objective was to save future generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war  through  the  eradication  of 
poverty  and  the  promotion  of  an  improved  quality  of 
life for all the peoples of the world, especially the poor.
The world was very different then from what it is 
today. Many members of the current Group of 77 and 
China were in fact not free then and were living under 
foreign  and  colonial  occupation.  In  the  past  70  years, 
the  world  has  seen  many  developments,  including 
decolonization and the ushering in of freedom and self-
determination, and the establishment of new, free and 
independent nations.
However, despite such progress, the world has still 
not adequately addressed underdevelopment, inequality, 
increasing  poverty  and  economic  exclusion.  Fifteen 
years  ago,  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
55/2)  was  adopted.  The  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) became a clarion call for directing and 
promoting  global  socioeconomic  development  and  for 
lifting millions of people out of poverty throughout the 
world.  The  Secretary-General’s  most  recent  report  on 
the MDGs, The Millennium Development Goals Report 
2015,  indicates  that  the  number  of  people  living  in 
extreme  poverty  has  declined  significantly.  Progress 
has been recorded in reaching some of the MDGs.
In my own country, South Africa, there has been a 
huge increase in a number of areas, such as education, 
health and gender equality. Primary-school enrolment, 
including  the  participation  of  girls,  has  increased. 
Child  and  maternal  mortality  rates  have  shown  a 
decline.  Targeted  interventions  in  fighting  diseases, 
such as human-immunodeficiency virus infections and 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome, have also saved 
thousands of lives.
The  achievement  of  the  MDGs  has  been  uneven 
across geographical regions, with regions such as Africa 
lagging  behind,  owing  to  historical  reasons  based  on 
underdevelopment. That is the context in which we have 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1) on this historic seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations.
The  Goals  and  targets  in  the  new  Agenda  cover 
all  three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development  and 
enable  us  to  continue  seamlessly  from  the  MDGs. 
They  range  from  ending  poverty,  ensuring  healthy 
lives,  ensuring  inclusive  and  equitable  high-quality 
education, achieving gender equality and empowering 
all women and girls to conserving and sustainably using 
the oceans and addressing climate change. South Africa 
endorses  this  transformative  post-2015  development 
agenda without any reservations.
The  triple  challenges  of  poverty,  unemployment 
and inequality, which the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  seeks  to  address,  are  the  primary  focus 
of  the  South  African  Government  and  people.  The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  are  also  in  line  with 
South  Africa’s  national  development  plan  as  well  as 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063.  More  important, 
the  outcome  document  of  the  post-2015  development 
negotiations at the United Nations represents a victory 
for  developing  countries,  as  it  affirms  that  the  2030 
Agenda should build on the unfinished business of the 
Millennium Development Goals.
In addition, while the 2030 Agenda is universal in 
that the Goals apply to both developed and developing 
countries, there is a clear recognition of the principle of 
common but differentiated responsibilities. That takes 
into account the different national realities, capacities 
and  levels  of  development  and  also  respects  national 
policies and priorities.
The  negotiations  on  the  2030  Agenda  took  place 
against  the  backdrop  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda,  recently  concluded  at  the  third  International 
12/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  as  well 
as  the  ongoing  negotiations  on  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  While 
the new Agenda stands on its own, it will draw on the 
support  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  the 
outcome  of  the  negotiations  at  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties to the  Climate Change Convention, as well as 
on  the  outcomes  of  other  multilateral  meetings,  both 
now and in the future, to achieve its objectives.
We  are  also  pleased  that  the  global  2030  Agenda 
includes a specific Goal on achieving gender equality 
and  empowering  all  women  and  girls.  All  17  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  including  those  on 
poverty eradication, education, health, job creation and 
inequality, include specific references to the challenges 
that  confront  women,  youth,  people  with  disabilities 
and other vulnerable sectors of our society. We are also 
particularly  pleased  that  the  2030  Agenda  includes  a 
stand-alone  Goal  on  the  means  of  implementation, 
which seeks to ensure that adequate attention is placed 
on the achievement of the substantive Goals.
Events  in  the  recent  past  have  demonstrated  that 
the  countries  of  the  developed  North  cannot  insulate 
themselves  from  the  challenges  facing  countries  of 
the developing South. In that regard, we welcome the 
commitment to the global partnership in order to ensure 
the  implementation  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  We  call  on  development  partners  to  not  only 
meet  their  current  commitments,  but  also  to  enhance 
their  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  with 
binding  timetables,  given  the  fact  that  ODA  remains 
the  main  source  of  development  assistance  for  many 
developing  countries.  We  also  reiterate  that  climate 
financing is new and additional to ODA and cannot be 
counted as ODA, nor should it be mixed with traditional 
development financing.
Significant  work  and  consultation  has  gone  into 
negotiating the 2030 Agenda. We now have a document 
that  we  can  confidently  say  reflects  our  global 
development aspirations while building on the progress 
made in the past 15 years. The full implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda will move the world forward towards 
the realization of the vision of social progress found in 
the Charter of the United Nations and better standards 
of life in larger freedom, as pledged at the founding of 
the United Nations 70 years ago.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  for  his 
statement.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Mr.  Nazarbayev  (spoke  in  Russian):  Kazakhstan 
has  worked  diligently 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Today, we can talk about what we 
have accomplished. 
to  fulfil 
First of all, we have strengthened the foundations 
of  governance  and  created  the  conditions  for  the 
development  of  civil  society.  Secondly,  Kazakhstan’s 
gross  domestic  product  has  grown  19-fold,  and  our 
annual per capita income has reached $13,000. Thirdly, 
the  life  expectancy  of  the  people  of  the  country  now 
exceeds 70 years. The level of poverty has been reduced 
11-fold — from 34 to 3 per cent. The level of infant and 
maternal mortality has also been reduced by 65 per cent. 
We have made significant progress in the fight against 
diseases,  such  as  AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis. 
Fourthly,  Kazakhstan  has  cut  its  greenhouse  gas 
emissions and focused on maintaining the biodiversity 
of our planet. It has also approved a national plan for 
the transition to a green economy.
The  disappearance  of  the  Aral  Sea  represents  a 
threat not only to our region, but to the world as a whole. 
As a result of the drying up of that Sea, the wind picks 
up  as  much  as  75  million  tons  of  dust  and  poisonous 
deposits  per  annum,  which  have  been  detected  in 
Europe and Antarctica. With the support of the World 
Bank, we have been able to restore the northern part of 
the  Aral  Sea.  We  are  also  working,  together  with  the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community,  to 
clean up the zone of the former Semipalatinsk nuclear 
test  site.  The  countries  of  Central  Asia  are  awaiting 
help in the fight against the ecological problems in the 
region.
Kazakhstan  supports 
the  comprehensive  new 
document for the development of our planet, the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  has 
just  been  adopted  (resolution  70/1).  The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  as  set  out  in  the  new  Agenda, 
represent a turning point for the countries and peoples 
of  the  world.  The  outcome  document  of  this  Summit 
15-29247
13/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
will become a truly global road map for development 
and prosperity on Earth.
The main responsibility for the implementation of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  lies  with  national 
Governments.  The  Goals  and  targets  of  the  new 
Agenda fully coincide with the priorities and objectives 
that  Kazakhstan  has  established  for  the  future.  Our 
response  to  those  modern  challenges,  which  we  have 
entitled the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, will be adopted 
in  the  country.  Its  aim  is  to  make  Kazakhstan  one  of 
the 30 most developed countries in the world. We are 
carrying out a national plan, including five institutional 
reforms  aimed  at  modernizing  the  State  apparatus, 
improving  the  work  of  civil  and  legal  institutions, 
further  industrializing  our  economy  and  fostering  an 
open society.
The  resurrection  and  modernization  of  the  Silk 
Road economy is important for the countries of Eurasia 
and will benefit many countries by maintaining transit 
from the Asia-Pacific region to Europe. Kazakhstan is 
working on its infrastructure by building railways and 
roads  that  will  unite  the  Pacific  with  Europe  and  the 
Middle  East  across  Kazakhstan.  Our  country,  which 
has no access to the sea, has become a transit territory 
and has thus gained access.  The time has come for us 
to unite around the idea of a greater Eurasia that will 
unite  into  a  single  integrational  twenty-first  century 
project — the Eurasian Economic Union, the economic 
area of the Silk Road and the European Union. 
A gap is growing in the world between the rich and 
the poor. However, a negative trend is being exacerbated 
by conflicts in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. The 
current migration crisis is the result not only of walls, 
but also of imbalances in development. In the twenty-
first  century,  successful  States  will  be  identified  not 
by  their  arsenals  of  weapons,  but  by  their  abilities  to 
develop cutting-edge ideas and to lead people towards 
them.
According  to  the  Stockholm  International  Peace 
Research Institute, the total military expenditure of all 
States in 2014 exceeded $1.7 trillion, or approximately 
2.3  per  cent  of  the  global  gross  domestic  product. 
Therefore, in order to guarantee the programmes that 
we  have  adopted  and  to  ensure  them  the  large-scale 
financing they need, I once again make a proposal for 
the annual allocation by each State of 1 per cent of its 
annual defence budget to the Sustainable Development 
Goals Fund. That would help us to fulfil the development 
plan we have adopted.
Mr. Alrowaiei (Bahrain), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Today, history once again gives us a chance to unite 
on  behalf  of  a  common  bright  future.  The  best  thing 
we  can  do  is  to  not  allow  the  hopes  of  humankind  to 
run  aground  on  the  reefs  of  contemporary  challenges 
and threats. Kazakhstan is ready to make every effort 
and to allocate its resources towards the goal of global 
development.
I wish everyone every success, and prosperity to all 
the countries of the world.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan for his statement.
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Romania.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Iohannais:  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
participate in this Summit, which has just adopted the 
programmatic  document  entitled  “Transforming  Our 
World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” 
(resolution  70/1),  in  this  year  when  the  international 
community celebrates the seventieth anniversary of the 
United Nations.
The  new  Agenda  aims  to  eradicate  poverty  in 
all  its  forms  and  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
in  its  three  dimensions  in  a  balanced  and  integrated 
manner.  The  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
the 169 targets confirm the comprehensiveness of the 
new Agenda. The work ahead of us in the next 15 years 
will  demonstrate  whether  all  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  can  fully  commit  themselves  to  the 
achievement  of  the  ambitious  and  noble  aspiration  to 
free people from the scourge of poverty.
It is our common duty to define the proper solutions 
for  that  quest  at  a  time  when  science  and  technology 
are  full-fledged  assets  with  outstanding  prospects  for 
promoting economic growth. We should be aware that 
the  measures  aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  represent 
not  only  a  moral  commitment  but  also  a  means  for 
promoting international peace and security.
International peace and security, a major objective 
of the United Nations, cannot be fully promoted without 
14/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
paying  special  attention  to  development.  We  should 
approach the roots of conflict, which include poverty, 
lack of hope, despair and social exclusion. Poverty can 
lead to despair and frustration, which can serve as the 
seeds  of  extremism  and  violence.  At  the  same  time, 
peace and security, at the international and the national 
levels,  are  the  major  prerequisites  for  sustainable 
development. 
As we saw in the past month, hundreds of thousands 
of  people  fleeing  war  and  searching  for  a  better  life 
have crossed into Europe, often by risky means. That 
ever-increasing  influx  of  migrants  from  the  Middle 
East and Africa has left European countries struggling 
to  cope  with  a  growing  humanitarian  disaster.  That 
crisis is complex and has humanitarian aspects, as well 
as  leading  to  further  crises  in  the  border  protection, 
integration  and  financial  areas.  If  we  do  not  find  the 
most  adequate  means  to  address  each  of  them,  each 
wave of migration will be bigger than the previous one. 
Every nation has an obligation to rescue people and to 
support and protect them.
The new development Agenda goes far beyond the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  maintaining  themes 
such as poverty eradication, education and health while 
introducing  new  ones  such  as  the  establishment  of 
peaceful and inclusive societies. The new Agenda has 
a  universal  character,  maintains  a  balance  among  the 
economic,  environmental  and  social  goals,  addresses 
major means of implementation and pleads for a global 
partnership in its implementation. 
All countries should ensure that appropriate policies 
are  in  place  for  implementing  the  Agenda.  Countries 
should promote effective and inclusive institutions and 
create policies based on the rule of law, human rights, the 
rights of women, gender equality and the empowerment 
of women. National ownership and accountability are of 
key importance for the implementation of the Agenda, 
in  terms  of  commitments  and  instruments  such  as 
sustainable  development  strategies.  Each  country  has 
the primary responsibility for its own development. We 
fully support the idea that the new Agenda should be 
implemented by local institutions, responding directly 
to citizens’ needs. Their needs, interests and concerns 
must  be  clearly  addressed  when  local  and  national 
strategies are defined.
In the case of Romania, we will revise our national 
strategy on sustainable development in order to integrate 
the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Social 
exclusion has been identified as a major impediment to 
the local implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals. The revised strategy will emphasize supporting 
the  inclusion  of  disabled  people,  young  people  and 
women  in  development  policies.  Eradicating  poverty 
requires decent employment opportunities, while social 
cohesion policies are needed to avoid and prevent social 
exclusion. We stand ready to participate in the process 
of  reviewing  and  monitoring  the  implementation  of 
the  new  Agenda,  to  share  our  experience  with  other 
Member States and to exchange lessons learned as well 
as positive results of the process.
The  Acting  President:  I  thank  the  President  of 
Romania for his statement.
Mr. Klaus Werner Ionannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Belarus.
Mr.  Alyaksandr  Lukashenka,  President  of  the 
Republic of Belarus, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Lukashenka (spoke  in  Russian):  Sustainable 
development is impossible without peace and security. 
The  people  of  Belarus  learned  to  fully  appreciate 
that absolute truth through their own fate. In the past 
century, Belarus became a site for the bloodiest battles 
of two World Wars. That is why we attach the utmost 
importance to the prevention of military conflicts and 
threats  to  people’s  lives.  After  losing  one  third  of  its 
population  in  the  struggle  against  fascism,  Belarus 
rose from the ashes and now strives to preserve peace 
and social harmony as a sacred task, while seeking to 
ensure  the  nation’s  well-being  and  pursue  sustainable 
development.
During  the  years  of  its  sovereignty  our  country 
has honourably achieved the Millennium Development 
Goals related to the eradication of hunger and poverty 
and has ensured 100 per cent literacy in its population, 
along  with  equality  between  men  and  women,  social 
and political stability and non-discrimination on ethnic 
and  religious  grounds.  We  do  not  have  a  maternal 
mortality  problem.  Infant  mortality  in  Belarus  is  the 
lowest in the world.
What  I  have  described  is  the  result  of  true 
democracy, and not what Western teachers try to impose 
on us. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for our 
planet in general. Unfortunately, the world has come to 
this  Summit  as  dissociated  and  divided  as  it  has  ever 
15-29247
15/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
been during the past three decades. The planet is being 
shaken  by  numerous  conflicts  and  acts  of  terrorism. 
Regrettably, no adequate solution has been found to an 
increasing number of global threats.
To date, we have been unable to restore the balance 
of power that was lost with the collapse of the Soviet 
Union.  Without  such  a  balance,  there  can  be  neither 
peace  nor  stability.  There  is  a  systemic  crisis.  In  any 
system,  a  single  force,  if  it  goes  unchecked,  seeks 
prosperity  only  for  itself  at  the  expense  of  others.  A 
policy  of  hegemony  and  national  egoism  leads  to  the 
widespread use of pressure, sanctions, restrictions and 
military  action.  Consequently,  we  are  losing  trust  in 
one  another.  Examples  of  open  political  skulduggery, 
lies and crimes against humanity are all too apparent.
Let us recall some recent facts. On the pretext of the 
presence of nuclear weapons in Iraq, certain countries, 
which  are  well  known,  decided  to  democratize  Iraq. 
And  where  were  those  nuclear  weapons?  Where  is 
democracy now in Iraq? Why was the President of Iraq 
murdered?  Where  does  that  country  stand  today,  and 
where is the future of the Iraqi people? Has life become 
better for people in that land? We can answer that it has 
not. Those responsible for what happened in Iraq claim 
that they made a mistake. They should have desisted. 
but once again, that was not what happened. They went 
even further. They began with Tunis and moved on to 
Libya.  The  scenario  was  exactly  the  same.  President 
Al-Qadhafi was crucified and his State was destroyed. 
Has the situation in Libya improved? The answer again 
is no. And does Libya exist as a intact State?
That should have been enough, but then they went 
into  Syria.  We  ask  them  why?  Why  are  they  killing 
more people? Why do they seek to overthrow a sitting 
President?  How  does  he  not  suit  them?  Moreover,  in 
facilitating the massacres in Syria, they are erasing the 
earliest traces of our common civilization. They should 
tell the world what they really want and what they are 
striving for.
Now, about the Ukrainian crisis. If we do not stop 
the  bloodshed  in  Europe,  that  internecine  massacre, 
than we will be facilitating the escalation of a conflict 
with dire results for the civilized world. If we take one 
more step towards global conflict, we might very well 
set  off  a  new  world  war  in  the  heart  of  the  civilized 
and  progressive  world.  Can  it  really  be,  in  this  new 
millennium, that we have yet to understand how fragile 
the world and human civilization are?
I say that not just to list well-known world events, 
but so that the powerful of the world might understand 
something, namely, that today there is no force that will 
stop them. But the Heads of State who are carrying out 
such  blasphemy  are  all  believers.  Many  of  them  even 
pray in public, but the Lord sees everything, and he is 
just. If he should grow wrathful and punish the guilty, 
then  all  peoples  will  suffer  innocently  because  of  the 
gambles  of  those  leaders.  I  implore  them  to  stop.  We 
need to help the people of the poorer countries to dress 
themselves,  to  take  care  of  themselves  and  obtain  an 
education.  If  those  leaders  feed  the  hungry  and  save 
children  from  catastrophes,  they  will  receive  what  is 
justly theirs.
But  mutual  alienation  is  typical  not  only  of  big 
countries, but also of small countries. There are many 
who do not even have the slightest desire to understand 
the traditions, convictions and cultures of other peoples. 
It is apparent that restoring a balance will take a long 
time in a polarized world. We will get closer to that goal 
only if we take action, rather than sitting and waiting 
passively.  We  need  to  acknowledge  that,  in  practice, 
we are all different and that every nation has the right 
to  choose  its  own  path  to  development.  Our  diversity 
can ensure a common progress and everyone’s success. 
Such  an  approach  will  help  us  to  restore  trust  in  our 
international relations, but in order to do so, we need 
to meet and talk to one another and look for ways for 
constructive interaction. And once we have reached an 
agreement, we will need to act.
History teaches us that anyone claiming unilateral 
leadership, without regard for the interests of others, is 
ultimately doomed to fail. Any advantage gained at the 
expense of others is short-lived and waning. A popular 
folk saying says that one cannot build one’s happiness 
on the misfortunes of others.
Today’s world is experiencing a crisis of responsibility. 
Self-interest  and  momentary  advantages  are  at  the 
core of many decisions. In the international arena, the 
actions  of  a  number  of  States  often  fail  to  take  into 
account  the  specific  realities  and  particularities  of 
other countries and societies. I am confident that with 
a different approach, we would not have seen hundreds 
of thousands of victims in Iraq, Libya, Syria and other 
countries, from which refugees are fleeing in an attempt 
to escape war. There would have been no Islamic State, 
no acts of terror in Europe nor civil war in Ukraine. The 
list of such “would not have beens” could be quite long.
16/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
It  is  important  to  speak  of  this  today,  because 
otherwise  these  countries,  these  peoples,    will  not 
understand us when we talk about development, given 
that millions if not billions of people lack access to the 
conditions that would allow them to live from one day 
to  the  next.  Today,  we  need  responsible  politicians, 
capable of acting globally and strategically, willing to 
make decisions in the interest of the entire international 
community,  as  well  as  compromises  for  the  common 
good.
While  at  the  United  Nations,  I  cannot  help  but 
mention  the  crisis  affecting  international  institutions. 
In recent years, one has gained the impression that their 
role has been reduced to that of a mere venue for disputes 
among  States  or  for  pressuring  individual  countries 
that do not please the powerful of this world. We need 
only  look  at  the  multitude  of  resolutions  adopted  at 
the  United  Nations.  Does  voting  on  them  help  solve 
conflicts? Does that voting help unite the international 
community?  Do  those  resolutions  improve  people’s 
lives?  Let  us  give  an  honest  answer:  no.  After  taking 
a vote, we return to being separated into our different 
camps.  As  a  result,  there  is  even  more  mistrust  and 
disengagement.
I  am  deeply  convinced  that  the  United  Nations 
should  not  be  used  to  demonstrate  one’s  power. 
That  behaviour  weakens  the  Organization,  destroys 
confidence  in  it  and  runs  contrary  to  its  very  nature 
and  mission.  It  is  hardly  surprising  that  traditional 
international organizations have played an insufficient 
role in preventing and settling conflicts. We must put 
an end to such deplorable practices. The United Nations 
must be a forum for cooperation among States, not one 
for confrontation.
Only  mutual  understanding  and  responsibility,  an 
awareness of the diversity of the world community and 
the renewal of trust will help us unite in safeguarding 
peace  and  security  and  ensure  that  we  can  find 
effective  responses  to  global  challenges  and  threats. 
The  sustainable  development  of  all  countries  and  a 
broadening  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  will  be 
the  practical  result  of  our  common  efforts  and  of  the 
consolidation  of  the  Organization’s  role  in  global 
politics.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Belarus for his statement.
Mr.  Alyaksandr  Lukashenka,  President  of  the 
Republic of Belarus, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhalese;  English 
text provided by the delegation): Since its inception, the 
United Nations has always striven to make human life 
more  rational,  meaningful  and  prosperous.  As  world 
leaders, it is our responsibility and duty to build such 
a world. 
The  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  fully  supports  the 
post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda  and  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  targets  that  the 
Assembly  has  just  adopted  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). Accordingly, 
I  declare  that  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  will  act 
with  determination  as  a  pioneer  of  the  eco-sensitive 
civilization that is emerging in the twenty-first century.
Sustainable development encapsulates the equilibrium 
between 
social  and  economic  development  and 
environmental protection. The Government of Sri Lanka 
anticipates achieving those Goals fully by 2030. We will 
work to meet the basic needs of the people, progressively 
alleviate poverty, eliminate all forms of discrimination 
and inequality and establish a society based on social 
justice  and  human  security.  At  the  same  time,  while 
emphasizing  the  protection  of  our  natural  resources, 
we  will  also  formulate  a  State  policy  on  resource 
consumption based on environmental sustainability. We 
will strive to ensure that the relevant policy framework 
is implemented within an institutional structure based 
on the principles of good governance espoused by my 
Government.  Special  attention  will  also  be  given  to 
the  concept  of  environmental  good  governance  as  an 
integral part of our governance policies. We will ensure 
that  civil  society  and  the  business  sector,  as  well  the 
State sector, participate in those efforts. 
Sustainable  development  cannot  be  achieved  by 
a  single  country  alone.  Our  strategy  will  therefore 
envisage a framework for cooperation among the United 
Nations, regional organizations and other States.
Sri Lanka will be fully committed to dealing with 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  13,  relating  to  climate 
change. We will strive to minimize the risks of possible 
environmental  hazards.  I  firmly  believe  that  a  proper 
study  is  required  to  ascertain  how  climate  change 
15-29247
17/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
aggravates  Sri  Lanka’s  contemporary  development 
challenges, such as poverty alleviation, food security, a 
growing elderly population and natural disasters.
I  wish  to  affirm  that,  in  the  preparation  of 
development  policies  for  Sri  Lanka  as  an  aspiring 
upper-middle income country, our special attention is 
focused  on  Sustainable  Development  Goal  1,  poverty 
alleviation;  Goal  2,  achieving  food  security;  Goal  7, 
energy; Goal 4, education; Goal 10, minimizing income 
disparity, and Goal 11, urban development. Sri Lanka’s 
rich history, dating back beyond 2,500 years, provides 
us with inspiration and strength in that endeavour.
I would like to conclude with the English translation 
of  an  ancient  Pali  blessing  that  also  accompanies  the 
preamble  to  the  Constitution  of  Sri  Lanka:  “May  the 
rains fall in due season” — signifying environmental 
balance; “may the harvest be bountiful” — signifying 
economic  prosperity;  “may  the  world  prosper”  and 
“may  the  ruler  be  righteous”  —  signifying  good 
governance.  That  shows  that,  even  centuries  ago,  our 
ancestors possessed the wisdom and awareness of the 
sustainable development triangle. As inheritors of that 
traditional  knowledge  and  influenced  by  its  ancient 
wisdom, which it will adapt to meet the requirements of 
the modern era, Sri Lanka stands prepared to meet the 
challenges  successfully  and  march  forward  gloriously 
into  the  twenty-first  century.  May  the  Noble  Triple 
Gem bless you!
The  Acting  President:  I  thank  the  President  of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for his 
statement.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Malta.
Ms. Marie Louise Coleiro Preca, President of the 
Republic of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Coleiro  Preca:  We  come  together  at  a 
critical moment in our history, a moment that calls more 
than ever for global solidarity, having undertaken a huge 
commitment to safeguarding human dignity and human 
rights. This is a moment when we must believe that we 
are capable of challenging the boundaries imposed by 
dogmatic conventions and narrowness of thought. We 
must believe and manifest the growing commitment felt 
so keenly across our nations to building and sustaining 
inclusive communities. We must find ways of ensuring 
that  meaningful  dialogue  and  shared  understanding 
among  peoples  of  diverse  cultures  will  enrich  and 
support our commitment.
This  is  a  moment  in  which  to  be  mindful  of  the 
far-reaching  and  often  insidious  effects  of  inequality. 
The cycle of power, privilege and oppression constrains 
opportunities,  restricts  development  and  limits  self-
determination for millions of people around the globe. 
We must interrupt those processes and work for social 
justice in the knowledge that such systems of inequality 
can never define the human person. Stories of inequality 
flood our media every day. We hear stories of people 
denied their most fundamental rights. We hear stories 
of individuals and groups facing discrimination, stories 
of  extreme  poverty  and  of  people  suffering  from  the 
effects of climate change, and stories of the vulnerable, 
exploited and abused.
The precariousness of the world calls for us to make 
a  greater  effort  to  address  those  inequalities,  which 
continue to hinder our progress. But how can we talk 
about progress without talking about the women, girls 
and gender minorities who continue to face a multitude 
of inequalities on a daily basis? How can we talk about 
sustainability without addressing the millions of people 
facing  poverty?  How  can  we  talk  of  inclusiveness 
without reaching out beyond the safety of our centres 
of privilege?
If we are serious about our commitment to securing 
a sustainable world, we must implement measures that 
are  capable  of  taking  a  critical,  reflective  look  at  the 
systems  that  underpin  and  replicate  inequalities  on 
a  global  scale.  As  leaders,  we  cannot  look  away.  As 
leaders, we must remain steadfast champions of social, 
economic and political inclusion. As leaders, we must 
always  give  voice  to  the  shared  truths  of  our  global 
community.  As  leaders,  we  must  become  advocates 
for  the  peace  and  well-being  of  all.  Sometimes  that 
might  not  be  the  most  popular  position  to  take.  We 
must be bold and defend the rights of vulnerable people 
wherever they are found. Human dignity, stability and 
freedom should be at the heart of our concerns. On the 
other hand, it is inspiring to see so many of us united in 
this global commitment to improve our world.
Our  endorsement  of  the  2030  Agenda  will  better 
the  lives  of  many  and  set  in  motion  the  processes  of 
change that will encourage deep levels of cultural and 
structural  transformation.  Our  commitment  should 
18/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
instil  more  respect  for  fundamental  human  and  other 
rights.  We  must  take  a  stand  where  and  when  those 
rights are violated. The international community must 
stand  firm  in  its  rights-based  approach  to  effectively 
address these realities. We must collaborate with each 
other  and  with  other  stakeholders,  walking  along  a 
shared path to achieve common objectives. 
Governments  are  not  alone  in  pursuing  their 
goals. The role of civil society is key, and I encourage 
non-governmental  and  other  organizations  to  actively 
participate  in  the  global  transformation  we  envision 
today.
Future generations will judge us by the efforts we 
make, but efforts alone are not enough. We must come 
together  as  peers  to  deliver  results  and  real  change 
to  benefit  all  humankind.  The  poor  have  waited  long 
enough. It is time to act.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Malta for her statement.
Ms. Marie Louise Coleiro Preca, President of the 
Republic of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Head of Government of 
the Republic of Djibouti.
Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh,  President  and  Head 
of  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
President  Guelleh  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session  for 
his  leadership  and  excellent  work  that  enabled  us  to 
successfully  conclude 
important  negotiations 
processes,  namely,  the  third  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development and, yesterday morning, 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  that  we  have  just 
adopted (resolution 70/1).
two 
I  would  also  like  to  welcome  and  encourage  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session,  which  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
our  Organization  and  is  historic  on  several  counts. 
The  current  session  will  be  an  opportunity  to  review 
the  achievements  and  untiring  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations in the areas of peace and security, development 
and the promotion of human rights, and it will also see 
the renewed commitment of Member States to a more 
secure and just world that is better preserved for future 
generations.
for  Sustainable  Development”, 
The  Development  Agenda  that  we  have  just 
adopted,  entitled  “Transforming  our  world:  the  2030 
Agenda 
includes 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  with  169 
ambitious, universal targets aimed at transforming all 
societies  by  focusing  on  sustainable  development,  to 
be  achieved  through  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger, 
fighting  inequality,  ensuring  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  girls  and  leaving  no  one  behind;  through 
strengthening 
sustainable  economic  development 
with  the  transformation  and  promotion  of  sustainable 
patterns  of  consumption  and  production;  through  the 
protection of our planet by combating climate change; 
and,  finally,  through  the  establishment  of  effective, 
inclusive  and  accountable  institutions  with  a  view 
to  realizing  sustainable  development  and  thereby 
achieving a revitalized global partnership.
Mr.  Rasmussen  (Denmark),  Co-Chair,  took  the 
Chair.
The  new  Development  Agenda  also  takes  into 
account  the  gaps  and  challenges  observed  during  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  in  a  number  of  countries.  It  is  important 
to  recognize  the  tangible  progress  achieved  by  the 
African countries, including mine, in the achievement 
of  the  MDGs.  Although  challenges  remain,  genuine 
results were achieved in education, maternal and child 
health  and  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and  other 
communicable diseases.
The  example  of  which  I  am  most  proud,  which  I 
wish  to  share  with  the  Assembly,  is  progress  in  food 
security, thanks to national social development policies 
paired with regional cooperation strategies, which have 
helped  boost  agricultural  production  in  our  country. 
This  has  made  it  possible  to  reduce  by  half  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger,  as  well  as  infant  mortality.  The 
Republic of Djibouti had the great honour to be among 
the  countries  rewarded  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  in  June  2015  for 
achieving  those  two  MDGs  despite  drastic  climatic 
conditions.
It is important in this pivotal year for sustainable 
development that the challenges and deficits that slowed 
the implementation of the MDGs be duly avoided and 
corrected.  The  financial  resources  mobilized  both 
nationally  and 
international  cooperation 
will  be  critical  to  the  implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Official  development  assistance 
is  crucial  for  the  least  developed  countries,  and  it  is 
through 
15-29247
19/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
imperative  that  the  commitments  made  to  them  by 
development partners be finally honoured.
The  conference  to  adopt  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda  was  an  important  occasion  during  which 
there  were  international  commitments  for  increased 
development  financing,  including  through  official 
development  assistance,  the  promotion  of  foreign 
direct  investment,  and  technology  transfer,  as  well  as 
commerce. It was also clearly agreed that because of the 
higher estimates of financial requirements necessary to 
achieve the SDGs, the financing sources are multiform 
and  will  come  from  public  and  private  sources,  both 
national and international. To me it seems clear that the 
SDGs  will  not  be  realized  by  2030  unless  each  Goal 
is  accompanied  by  adequate  funding  and  by  relevant 
indicators  for  each  socioeconomic  reality  that  will 
enable us to assess the results.
Clearly, for successfully achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals and financing for development, all 
countries must increase their resilience by adopting a 
sustainable development model firmly directed towards 
a  low-carbon  future.  Although  countries  like  mine 
contribute little to the deterioration of the environment 
and  climate  change,  they  nevertheless  suffer  the 
consequences,  which  include  droughts  and  recurrent 
floods. The effects of climate change primarily affect 
women,  young  people,  the  elderly  and  particularly 
those living in rural areas.
long-term  policies  and  programmes  for 
It is essential that the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, in Paris, succeed and that all States seize that 
opportunity to make a serious, or even legally binding, 
commitment to curb the effects of climate change in the 
short term by slowing down greenhouse gas emissions, 
on the one hand, and, on the other, by adopting medium- 
and 
the 
reconstruction of ecosystems and by favouring solutions 
based  on  responsible  environmental  behaviour.  That 
will help us individually and collectively to remedy the 
growing inequalities among and within States and will 
allow for autonomy for all and better social protection.
There  is  no  doubt  that  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  intrinsically  linked  to  national 
ownership of this Agenda by our respective countries. 
As African countries, we welcome the Common African 
Position and its six pillars, as well as the priorities of 
our  continental  agenda,  Agenda  2063,  which  have 
been integrated into the SDGs, as reflected in the 2030 
Agenda. 
I  want  to  stress  that  in  the  implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  —  whose  motto  is  “Leave  no  one 
behind”  —  it  is  important  that  the  national  priorities 
for sustainable development, the laws and the specific 
social,  cultural,  moral  and  religious  characteristics 
of  each  State  and  each  society  lie  at  the  heart  of  this 
universal  and  inclusive  Agenda,  which  is  based  on 
universally recognized human rights.
I would like to conclude by reaffirming the strong 
political will of the Republic of Djibouti to continue to 
work so that the socioeconomic development respectful 
of  the  environment  as  set  out  in  the  2030  Agenda 
becomes the path we follow determinedly in the coming 
years and future generations.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  I  thank  the  President  and 
Head of Government of the Republic of Djibouti for his 
statement.
Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh,  President  and  Head 
of  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: 
I  now  call  on 
the 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Mr.  Igga  (South  Sudan):  Despite  the  fact  that 
South  Sudan  was  born  11  years  after  the  Millennium 
Summit  in  New  York  in  September  2000,  which  set 
the Goals that aimed at improving the environment for 
humankind,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
become  benchmarks  that  will  guide  our  planning  for 
decades to come. While we might realistically have been 
included in the time frame as a country — side-by-side 
with  such  noble  undertakings —  but  were  not  simply 
because we had not yet been born, we have nevertheless 
achieved something in that direction, setting our own 
time frames and parameters.
As  for  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  their  169  targets,  apparently  they  are  going  to 
cost the world nearly $45 trillion in just one year, and 
they  clearly  overlap.  As  uphill  as  the  task  may  seem, 
South  Sudan  has  selected  and  focused  on  just  six 
of  the  Goals,  in  line  with  our  priorities.  Our  number 
one  Goal  is  food  security  and  agriculture;  second  is 
infrastructure,  including  roads;  third  are  energy  and 
hydropower;  fourth  is  health;  fifth  is  education;  and 
sixth  is  economic  growth,  alongside  full,  productive 
20/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
employment.  Although  the  Government  has  the  will 
to  achieve  those  Goals,  our  chief  impediment  will 
certainly be financial.
the 
industrialized  and 
The  gap  between 
the 
developing worlds could be closed through the simple 
instrument of economic growth, which has damaged the 
environment.  While  the  developed  world  remains  the 
exclusive emitter of greenhouse gases and responsible 
for  climate  change,  we  in  the  Third  World  must  be 
helped  in  promoting  the  production  of  green  energy 
for powering our imminent industrial growth, thereby 
preventing the negative socioeconomic implications of 
ecological damage.
resources  are  competing  priorities 
The  need  for  energy  and  the  parallel  need  for 
financial 
for 
countries emerging from protracted civil wars. One of 
the main triggers of the 21-year war for independence 
in  South  Sudan  was  related,  inter  alia,  to  preventing 
the ecological damage that would have been created by 
draining one of the five largest wetlands in the world, 
measuring  almost  57,000  square  kilometres.  As  large 
oil deposits have been discovered in the Sudd region, 
we  call  on  the  world  to  help  us  make  the  necessary 
trade-off  in  order  to  protect  the  ecology  of  the  vital 
global resource in the southern part of my country.
Indeed,  the  conflict  between  the  ecology  and  the 
economy  —  the  main  preoccupation  of  the  agenda 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Human 
Environment  in  Stockholm  in  1972  —  remains  today 
the key challenge to sustainable development in South 
Sudan. We are more than committed to achieving that 
balance. It is required of us, as members of the global 
community.  As  we  do  so,  we  strongly  believe  in  the 
positive spirit of the United Nations Conference on the 
Financing for Development, in its call for strong support 
for  developing  countries  in  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
To  that  end,  there  are  important  prerequisites  for 
our  journey  together  in  achieving  those  noble  Goals. 
One of them is that the region-based intergovernmental 
committees, which are going to work closely with the 
General Assembly in deploying international financial 
resources and technical know-how, should be given due 
weight. That will generate a cooperative environment in 
which the obstacles specific to sustainable development 
in Africa will be effectively addressed.
In conclusion, I must underscore that South Sudan 
is extremely rich in mineral and other natural resources, 
but they remain untapped. While we remain among the 
least  developed  countries  in  the  world,  services  have 
improved  in  numerous  mushrooming  urban  centres 
of the country. We call upon our partners to visit and 
hold  one  of  the  expected  numerous  conferences  on 
sustainable development in South Sudan. Considering 
the  fact  that  my  country  has  zero  greenhouse  gas 
emissions,  South  Sudan’s  rich  and  untapped  natural 
resources make it a suitable test case for implementing 
the  post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda.  Our 
nation, located exactly in the middle of the continent, 
stands to be a positive, regular contributor to the 2030 
Sustainable Development Agenda (resolution 70/1). We 
are  firm  in  our  resolve  to  continue  in  that  direction, 
especially  given  the  favourable  climate  of  peace  and 
stability that is now being established in my country.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Vice-President 
of the Republic of South Sudan for his statement.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
Mr.  Sharif  (Pakistan):  I  am  delighted  to  be  part 
of  a  defining  moment  in  history  —  the  adoption  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  in  the  form  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  We,  as  a  global  community,  are  committing 
ourselves  to  a  shared  vision  of  inclusive  growth  and 
development, while ensuring that no one is left behind. 
Our new Agenda reflects both ambition and action in 
our joint effort to combat poverty, hunger and human 
deprivation. 
At the beginning of the century, we committed to 
a  development  agenda  that  brought  an  international 
focus  on  poverty,  poverty  eradication  and  human 
development.  By  putting  people  and  their  needs 
first,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  reshaped 
decision-making  processes  and  redefined  national 
priorities.  As  a  result,  over  a  billion  people  were 
rescued from extreme poverty. Substantial gains were 
also  made  in  defeating  hunger,  illiteracy  and  disease. 
Our  accomplishments,  though  many,  were  varied  and 
15-29247
21/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
unevenly  distributed.  Poverty,  inequality  and  lack  of 
opportunity remain stark realities in our time.
The post-2015 development agenda is a collective 
response to those challenges. It represents a giant leap 
forward.  The  17  broad  and  cross-cutting  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  the  169  associated 
targets  chart  a  development-centric  and  growth-
oriented  pathway.  The  new  Agenda  posits  itself  on 
the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development, 
namely, social justice, environmental stewardship and 
economic  well-being.  It  is,  therefore,  an  agenda  of 
change  that  enjoys  inherent  vitality,  as  well  as  wide 
social acceptability. The focus is on transforming our 
economies and livelihoods, building cohesive, just and 
peaceful  societies  and  protecting  our  planet.  Poverty 
eradication remains at its core.
Our  journey  does  not  end  with  the  adoption  of 
the  new  Agenda.  It  has  only  just  begun.  The  scope 
and magnitude of our new development framework is 
enormous.  Delivering  on  it  will  require  unwavering 
political will at both the national and the international 
levels.  Its  implementation  requires  a  paradigm  shift 
in  our  political,  social,  economic  and  development 
outlook. 
We  know  from  experiences  in  our  own  country 
that  strong  and  sustained  economic  growth  has  to  be 
at the heart of any effort to achieve those goals. Social 
development requires synergies among key development 
priorities,  including  employment  generation,  energy 
security, 
disaster-risk 
reduction and governance. It entails expanding access 
to energy and infrastructure and making them available 
to a larger proportion of the population.
demographic 
challenges, 
It  will  be  equally  important  to  address  both 
systemic issues and structural constraints. Credible and 
timely data are needed to underpin our success. They 
are critical enablers for success. Most importantly, the 
meaningful implementation of the new Agenda demands 
matching resources. The Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
on  financing  for  development  provides  a  promising 
start.  It  complements  the  means  of  implementation 
outlined in the new development framework. We must 
deliver on those commitments.
Development strategies remain, first and foremost, 
national undertakings. The eradication of poverty and 
disease and the provision of a better standard of living 
are among our abiding commitments to our people. 
For  Pakistan,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
complement our own development needs and priorities, 
which are outlined in our Vision 2025. That document 
provides  a  policy  framework  for  integrating  the  new 
Goals  into  our  national  economic  and  development 
planning.  It  is  also  a  blueprint  of  our  political 
commitment  to  the  process.  The  Government  has 
initiated a series of wide-ranging reforms aimed, inter 
alia,  at  expanding  our  resource  base,  stemming  illicit 
capital outflows and ensuring optimum use of existing 
resources.  We  are  equally  aware  of  the  importance 
of  a  robust  monitoring  and  follow-up  mechanism 
for  effective  and  full  implementation  of  the  SDGs 
in  Pakistan.  Elaborate  coordination  and  oversight 
procedures have, accordingly, been put in place at both 
the national and the provincial levels.
We also have a historic opportunity to reverse the 
threatening tide of climate change. We must therefore 
negotiate  an  outcome  in  Paris  that  is  fair,  equitable 
and  guided  by  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  As  we 
do  our  part,  we  look  forward  to  a  revitalized  global 
partnership  that  promotes  and  complements  domestic 
policies  and  priorities,  in  line  with  our  development 
needs.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for his statement.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Bel gium, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Michel  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  should  provide  new  impetus  for  our  global 
commitment.  We  face  several  challenges,  which 
are  largely  interdependent,  including  climate  and 
migration,  poverty  and  hunger,  peace  and  security, 
and  even  extremism.  Some  of  them  are  the  causes 
or  repercussions  of  other  challenges.  Some  of  them 
exacerbate others. In order to overcome those obstacles, 
we need to share a universal and ambitious vision, but 
above  all,  we  need  to  share  a  vision  to  bring  about 
genuine transformation for our fellow citizens.
22/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
The time for assessments, reports and studies has 
passed. Now, we must act and act in an organized and 
consistent manner. The guiding concept for our action 
should  be  to  successfully  meet  the  needs  of  current 
generations  without  jeopardizing  the  needs  of  future 
generations.  The  2030  Agenda  can  be  our  compass 
for the next 15 years. It is a universal, integrated and 
interdependent Agenda. Seventy years after the United 
Nations was established, multilateralism is needed, now 
more than ever, to meet the challenges of this century.
Our action has a solid foundation, namely, human 
rights. Belgium advocates for an approach founded on 
fundamental freedoms. Gender equality, the freedom of 
expression, the freedom of opinion, the freedom of the 
press and the rule of law — they form at every turn the 
path  to  development.  Amartya  Sen  has  stated  that  no 
substantial famine has ever taken place in a functioning 
democracy. And I believe deeply in the correctness of 
that assertion. I would ask everybody to think about it.
I  want  to  outline  a  couple  of  points  that  are 
important to my country.
First,  as  regards  peace  and  security,  conflict 
destroys the hopes of women and men for a dignified 
life.  Our  development  efforts  will  come  to  nothing 
without peace and without security. We must mobilize 
to push back wars and conflicts. Social inclusion, decent 
work and social protection are essential in guaranteeing 
sustainable growth. The fight against inequality is an 
integral part of our aspiration to achieve dignity for all.
That  struggle  also  applies  to  non-discrimination, 
to  which  there  should  be  no  exception.  I  condemn 
all forms of racism, but I would also like to touch on 
other  forms  of  discrimination  that  we  see  every  day, 
based,  for  example,  on  gender  or  sexual  orientation. 
And  from  this  high  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  launch 
an  appeal  for  respect  of  the  rights  of  homosexuals. 
Under no circumstances anywhere in the world should 
homosexuality be considered a crime. And we will be 
the tireless advocates for the cause of the elimination of 
discrimination based on sexual orientation.
Women’s rights and their equality with men should 
not  just  be  guaranteed,  they  should  also  be  a  reality. 
Full access to education for girls is needed to put an end 
to the incredible waste of human resources represented 
by  women  and  girls  kept  in  ignorance.  Access  to 
reproductive  health,  guarantees  for  sexual  rights, 
access  to  family  planning  and  contraception —  those 
are issues that I refuse to shy away from simply because 
they  make  some  people  uncomfortable.  From  this 
rostrum, I would like to state our wish that all of those 
barriers and taboos should fall.
I  would  also  like  to  talk  about  digitalization  and 
access to the Internet. That is also an area with potential 
for development. We must, of course, avoid two main 
pitfalls.  Internet  access  must  not  be  used  as  a  means 
for violating or controlling the private lives of people, 
and, on the other, it must not be used as a vehicle for 
broadcasting hatred, extremism and radicalism. 
Belgium has also shown its commitment through its 
development aid. We have decided to devote half of our 
development aid to the least developed countries, and 
we made a pledge to that effect at the third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  in  Addis 
Ababa. Besides public development aid, we also need 
to mobilize all of the other sources of aid. I am thinking 
of  the  mobilization  and  effective  use  of  domestic 
resources.
Of course, the private sector is a decisive partner in 
devising strategies for facing development challenges. 
Transparency, the fight against corruption and the rule 
of law are key areas here. The private sector is a driver 
of economic growth, and public and private initiatives 
should be mutually reinforcing. In that framework, the 
modification  of  non-sustainable  modes  of  production 
and  consumption  is  also  a  main  objective.  Economic 
growth  must  go  hand 
in  hand  with  sustainable 
production and consumption. Today, innovations need 
to  balance  between  reducing  negative  impacts  on  the 
environment  and  improving  the  quality  of  life.  We 
advocate large-scale investment in such initiatives. 
The  real  work  should  start  now.  The  size  of  the 
task requires commitment on the part of all countries. 
Belgium and all of its institutions are committed. And 
each needs to take part in that universal vision.
In  that  same  line  of  thought,  each  citizen  can 
carry out daily acts that would facilitate human rights 
and respect for our planet. Access to information and 
education  for  sustainable  development  should  also 
be  encouraged.  We  should  also  work  to  evaluate  the 
progress that has been accomplished and compare what 
has been done with the fundamental indicators.
In  conclusion,  I  stress  the  importance  of  the 
work  that  has  been  done  within  the  United  Nations 
framework We worked together for several months to 
draw  up  the  2030  Agenda.  Each  party  demonstrated 
15-29247
23/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
its  responsibility  and  solidarity.  We  are  meeting  here 
today at the highest level to commit together.
Belgium  has  always  advocated  proactive  and 
effective multilateralism. I hope that the 2030 Agenda 
will be a major success in this century. But that success 
will depend on us and our tenacity. We must ensure that 
those who succeed us in 15 years will be able to state 
with pride that there was a positive outcome from the 
process  that  begins  today,  and  that  they  can  say  “We 
have succeeded”!
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Belgium for his statement.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Sheikh Hasina (Bangladesh): We have joined the 
people of the world in adopting a new universal agenda 
for sustainable development. I commend all those who 
contributed  to  developing  the  people-centred  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
In  2000,  I  joined  world  leaders  in  adopting  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  Over  the 
past 15 years, we mobilized our people and resources 
to realize the commitments that we made then. We are 
happy  that  we  have  attained  almost  all  the  targets  of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including 
those  related  to  poverty  eradication,  the  reduction 
of  maternal  and  child  mortality  and  communicable 
diseases.  The  realization  of  the  MDGs  has  helped 
Bangladesh to graduate to be a middle-income country.
A  key  to  our  success  has  been  our  political 
commitment  and  the  conducive  policy  environment 
that  we  created  in  Bangladesh.  We  have  mobilized 
our  national  resources,  enhanced  capabilities  and 
empowered people. We aligned our development policies 
and strategies early. We have engaged in partnerships 
with a wide range of local and international actors. We 
also developed numerous innovations and development 
solutions  across  sectors.  We  ensured  that  inequality 
did not increase and that our actions directly benefited 
people. We are pleased that some of our solutions and 
experiences are now part of the global solutions.
Building on our experience, Bangladesh joined the 
long  process  to  craft  a  transformative  agenda  for  the 
future. Now, we all must pledge to fully and effectively 
realize the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda.  To  deliver  on  the  SDGs,  robust  global 
cooperation is critical. In realizing the Agenda, we have 
to  recognize  the  diverse  national  realities,  capacities 
and  levels  of  development,  and  respecting  national 
policies  and  priorities  will  be  equally  important  in 
that connection. We will have to address all forms of 
inequality across the Agenda.
journey, 
the 
In 
this  collective 
international 
community must deliver on its pledges to provide the 
means for implementing each Goal across the Agenda. 
We  need  support  in  the  areas  of  finance,  technology, 
capacity-building  and  debt.  We  must  also  ensure  that 
global trading and the financial regime and institutions 
are fair and just.
The  day  before  yesterday,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted the 2030 Agenda with great joy. As part of its 
national preparation, Bangladesh is aligning its seventh 
five-year development plan with that new global Agenda. 
We have decided to set up a new national mechanism 
for  coordinating  the  Agenda’s  implementation  within 
the  Government  under  the  overall  supervision  of  my 
Office.
We  are  all  looking  forward  to  delivering  with 
similar  ambition,  focus  and  commitment  on  a  global 
deal on climate change in Paris in December. Climate 
change  is  putting  Bangladesh’s  precious  development 
gains  at  risk,  and  we  must  therefore  ensure  that  our 
new development agenda and the new climate deal will 
deliver  when  it  comes  to  protecting  and  harnessing 
the present and future of humankind. Let us all work 
together to deliver on our 2030 Agenda.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh for her statement.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance and Energy, Minister for National Security, 
Public  Administration,  Disaster  Management,  Home 
Affairs, Information and Implementation of Grenada.
Mr. Keith Mitchell, Prime Minister and Minister for 
Finance and Energy, Minister for National Security, 
24/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
Public  Administration,  Disaster  Management, 
Home Affairs, Information and Implementation of 
Grenada, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Mitchell  (Grenada):  There  is  an  old  African 
proverb  that  says:  if  you  want  to  travel  fast,  you  go 
alone, but if you want to travel far, you go together. In 
many ways, our path as a global civilization since the 
Industrial Revolution has been one focused on speed and 
individualism, as has been well documented in Thomas 
Piketty’s award-winning treatise on economics, Capital 
in the Twenty-First Century.
The road straight ahead of us does not go very far. 
It commits all of humankind and its unborn generations 
to an inhospitable world where, according to a World 
Bank report, the temperature will be 4° Celsius above 
pre-industrial  levels.  It  is  a  world  of  floods,  droughts 
and  famines,  a  world  of  mass  migrations,  in  which 
communities  will  surely  rise  up  against  communities 
and  nations  against  nations.  In  the  words  of  His 
Holiness Pope Francis, speaking in this very Hall, “Any 
harm done to the environment, therefore, is harm done 
to humankind” (A/70/PV.3, p. 3). That world of floods, 
drought,  famine  and  mass  migration  is  not  down  the 
road. It is happening right now. This year of 2015 is set 
to be the warmest since record-keeping began in 1880.
We built the United Nations for the express purpose 
of avoiding such great calamities. We built it so that we 
can go together and go very far. At this very moment 
in  history,  the  entire  future  of  our  planet  and  human 
civilization has come to a fork in the road. It offers a 
new and broader pathway for many, not just for the few. 
It  is  a  pathway  to  a  greener  and  cleaner  world,  and  a 
more just world, a world where we can travel together 
and go very far together. As the late Yogi Berra once 
said, “When you come to a fork in the road, take it.”
In  my  tri-island  State  of  Grenada,  Carriacou  and 
Petite Martinique, ordinary Grenadians are increasingly 
seeing themselves as shepherds of the environment. In 
recent  history,  Grenada,  once  considered  to  be  below 
the hurricane belt, has seen two successive hurricanes 
devastate  our  people  and  cause  damage  amounting  to 
200 per cent of our annual gross domestic product.
When it comes to greening our economy, we have 
worked  to  pass  a  new  electricity  act  with  a  view  to 
moving to 100 per cent renewables. That is in line with 
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7, on energy, and 
SDG  13,  on  climate.  The  United  States  has  selected 
Grenada  as  a  pilot  country  for  the  transformation  of 
the power sector in the Caribbean, and we are grateful 
for that help. We are also appreciative of the support of 
China, Venezuela, Germany, New Zealand and others, as 
we seek to manage our energy challenges and transform 
that  important  sector.  SDG  17,  on  partnerships,  is 
therefore  deeply  ingrained  in  our  approach,  and  as  a 
small island developing State (SIDS), we also wish to 
commend  SIDS  DOCK,  an  international  partnership 
for renewable energy in small island developing States. 
As part of our green economy, we have also introduced 
a price on carbon through a fuel levy, which is helping 
to  improve  our  fiscal  space.  We  are  also  introducing 
climate-smart agriculture, in line with SDGs 13 and 15.
Collectively,  Grenada  and  its  islands  have  348 
square kilometres of territory. But beyond that we have 
26,000 square kilometres of blue ocean space. Grenada’s 
blue  economy  is  therefore  vital  and  exemplified  by 
our  coastal  tourism,  the  main  driver  of  our  economy. 
That is why we have committed to conserving 20 per 
cent or more of our near-shore marine resources. And 
in line with SDG 14, on oceans, we are pleased to be 
working with the Government of the Netherlands, the 
World  Bank  and  others  on  the  Global  Network  for 
Blue  Growth  and  Food  Security,  along  with  a  Blue 
Grenada investment strategy. Moreover, in April 2016, 
in concert with its partners, Grenada will host a global 
blue-growth  investment  conference  designed  to  move 
the needle on ocean health and wealth. The conference 
should  put  ocean  States  in  a  better  position  to  report 
positive results when they meet in Fiji in 2017 to review 
progress  on  SDG  14.  Grenada  is  also  joining  with 
Dominica  and  the  Marshall  Islands  to  promote  a  new 
initiative,  entitled  “We  Are  the  Oceans”,  which  will 
begin by educating our young people.
That brings me to my final point, concerning SDG 
4,  on  education.  Education  is  critical  to  the  future  of 
our  children  and  the  entire  planet.  I  am  standing  in 
this  Hall  today  because  I  was  among  the  fortunate 
who were granted an education. But not enough of our 
young people, at home or abroad, are getting access to a 
quality education. That is why my Government has set 
aside the largest portion of its operating fiscal budget 
for  education.  Already,  education  represents  20  per 
cent of Grenada’s gross domestic product. St. George’s 
University  in  Grenada,  which  is  training  more  and 
more Grenadians, also produces one of every hundred 
doctors practising in the United States.
Finally, as part of my duty as the head of science 
and  technology  for  the  Caribbean  Community,  I 
15-29247
25/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
wish  to  welcome  President  Obama’s  invitation  to  the 
Caribbean States to send representatives to meet with 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  and  the  United 
States  information  and  communications  technology 
industry  in  Silicon  Valley.  Such  efforts  not  only 
underscore the spirit of partnership but also point the 
way forward towards better education, more innovation 
and more jobs, as we seek to reduce global poverty and 
inequality  in  line  with  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  on  poverty,  gender  equality,  employment,  and 
industry and innovation.
In  closing,  I  wish  to  applaud  the  Secretary-
General’s efforts in presiding over the United Nations 
at a time when we have chosen a new path for a more 
sustainable  world.  With  his  continued  leadership  as 
we  head  towards  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change in Paris, and beyond, we feel confident that, as 
a global community, we are making the right move. He 
can be assured of Grenada’s full support as we take this 
new pathway for our people, for our planet, for peace 
and for prosperity — a path on which we will embark 
together and on which we will go far.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Finance  and  Energy,  Minister  for 
National  Security,  Public  Administration,  Disaster 
Management,  Home  Affairs, 
and 
Implementation of Grenada for his statement.
Information 
Mr. Keith Mitchell, Prime Minister and Minister for 
Finance and Energy, Minister for National Security, 
Public  Administration,  Disaster  Management, 
Home Affairs, Information and Implementation of 
Grenada, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Mr. Razak (Malaysia): The Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  adopted  in  2000  set  targets  to  be 
delivered by 2015, and in the past 15 years there have 
been  many  significant  achievements.  The  world  has 
also  become  far  more  inclusive.  Access  to  education, 
health information, communications technology and job 
opportunities has broadened significantly. The MDGs 
also  brought  national  Governments,  the  international 
community, civil society and the private sector together, 
all aiming at a common set of goals. It galvanized the 
necessary  political  commitment,  leveraged  resources 
and spurred actions, and the results show what can be 
achieved  when  we  recognize  our  common  humanity 
and put our fellow man first.
At  the  same  time,  progress  has  been  uneven. 
Millions are still suffering, especially the poorest and the 
disadvantaged, because of their gender, age, disability, 
ethnicity or even geographic locations. Targeted efforts 
will  be  needed  to  reach  the  most  vulnerable.  Even 
today,  around  800  million  people  still  live  in  poverty 
and suffer from hunger. We may have met the target of 
halving extreme poverty rates, but the world is still far 
from  reaching  the  overall  goal  of  eradicating  poverty 
and hunger. That, then, must remain at the core of the 
post-2015 development agenda, and it is imperative that 
no one be left behind.
Malaysia is absolutely committed to the post-2015 
agenda,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
and  our  aspirations  to  transform  the  world  by  2030. 
Inclusivity  and  sustainable  development  have  long 
been  at  the  heart  of  our  own  transformation  from  a 
developing country to one that is on course to achieving 
high-income status by 2020.
Between 1970 and 2014, the incidence of poverty in 
Malaysia was reduced from 49.3 per cent to 0.6 per cent, 
while hard-core poverty was eradicated. Mean monthly 
household  income  has  increased  more  than  twenty-
fold, from $277 in 1970 to $1,781 in 2014. Malaysia is 
now about to embark on its next five-year development 
plan, the Eleventh Malaysia Plan: 2016-2020. In many 
aspects the Plan mirrors the multidimensional nature of 
the SDGs and has been formulated with the people at 
the centre of all development efforts.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
What  we  refer  to  as  the  “people  economy”  will 
be  given  priority,  reinforcing  my  Government’s 
commitment  to  bringing  further  development  to  our 
citizens by enriching their lives, providing them with 
dignity  and  enhancing  their  potential  to  share  in 
growth and the fruits of prosperity. For the first time 
in the history of Malaysia, national growth targets will 
include  not  only  gross  domestic  production  growth 
and per capita income but also household income and 
the  Malaysian  well-being  index.  We  are  committed 
to  ensuring  equitable  opportunities  for  all,  and  the 
bottom  40  per  cent  of  households  in  particular.  That 
will  be  done  through  initiatives  that  are  focused 
26/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
on  outcome-based  support  and  productivity-linked 
systems and will include training in entrepreneurship 
skills,  the  adoption  of  technology,  asset  ownership 
and  investment  in  improving  connectivity  and  basic 
amenities.  We  aim  to  double  average  income  for  the 
bottom 40 per cent of households, from $700 in 2014 
to $1500 by 2020, elevating them to the middle class.
We will also raise the participation rate of women 
in  the  work  force  from  53  per  cent  to  59  per  cent  by 
2020, and we will transform rural areas by improving 
connectivity and mobility and help them to become ever 
more business-friendly environments. We are working 
towards  providing  equal  access  to  quality  health  care 
and affordable housing and will build more clinics and 
hospitals and affordable homes over the next few years.
We  are  determined  to  be  good  custodians  of  our 
environment, so that we preserve our natural resources 
and beautiful landscape for future generations. Green 
growth is no longer an option reserved for idealists, but 
a practical necessity for us and for other Governments 
around  the  world.  All  this  because  we  recognize  that 
human  capital  is  the  most  important  resource  for 
development, not just in Malaysia but in all our united 
nations. 
On  that  note,  allow  me  to  reaffirm  Malaysia’s 
commitment to supporting and implementing the 2030 
Development  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Not  only  is  a  better  future  within  our  grasp,  but  it  is 
also our duty to fight for it. I urge all those present to 
join us in that noble and necessary endeavour.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the Prime Minister of Malaysia for the statement he has 
just made.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime Minister of Malaysia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear a statement by the President of 
the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
Mr. Renzi (Italy): This is the time to erase poverty 
and hunger and to guarantee a safe ecosystem for future 
generations.  I  would  like  first  of  all  to  commend  the 
action of the Secretary-General and the Organization’s 
elites  for  moving  forward  on  the  new  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. It is an achievement in and 
of itself. We have come up with a common Agenda with 
universal goals to be applied everywhere, without regard 
for the different levels of development — an agenda that 
will promote effective development sustainability and 
break new ground for the way we will act in the years 
to come. It is both an opportunity and a responsibility.
What we need now is global action. Every nation 
is  capable  of  addressing  and  meeting  that  very 
important challenge. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  envisages  a  new,  truly 
global partnership, not only among Governments, but 
among  parliaments,  non-governmental  organizations, 
businesses,  citizens  —  every  one  has  a  role  to  play. 
This  unequivocally  new  global  deal,  based  on  five 
P’s  —  people,  prosperity,  partnership,  planet  and 
peace — will be a legacy for the next generation. Italy 
is ready to make important strides in this direction.
Although Italy is the leading contributor of troops 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  we  know 
that we need something more than just peacekeeping. 
Beyond  peacekeeping,  we  need  greater  investment 
in,  for  example,  education  initiatives.  And  the  new 
framework  for  sustainable  development  encompasses 
peace  and  security,  the  rule  of  law,  the  promotion  of 
human rights, and effective and democratic governance 
and institutions.
I feel compelled to take the opportunity afforded by 
this special Summit to speak about the tragedy that has 
been unfolding for too long now in the Mediterranean 
Sea.  Shores  that  were  once  the  cradle  of  civilization 
have  become  the  stage  on  which  an  undeserved 
struggle,  unbelievable  suffering  and  an  unacceptable 
loss  of  life  are  being  played  out  daily.  The  flow  of 
countless  desperate  people  trying  to  reach  Europe  to 
fulfil their simple aspiration of having a decent life is 
without precedent. It is the result of poverty and, worse, 
lack of development, and extremism.
Too many have died. Many more have been rescued 
on the open sea, and I am proud of my people for their 
efforts in saving so many. But these people without a 
country  —  who,  as  Pope  Francis  said,  have  escaped 
from countries of Africa and elsewhere — need a very 
clear  answer  today.  Italy  is  aware  of  its  own  moral 
responsibility and that of all the countries in the European 
Union.  We  hope  that  we  will  succeed  in  reaching  the 
very  important  result  of  a  common  European  asylum 
system. That is the only solution — not the building of 
walls, but a common European asylum system.
15-29247
27/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
However,  there  is  a  new  strategy  before  us.  Our 
new Agenda is a very good start. We endorse the 2030 
Agenda  across  every  sector,  through  our  national 
Green Act and in initiatives in the food and nutritional 
security area, particularly with regard to exports. The 
international  food  exhibition  in  Milan  is  a  platform 
that Italy offers to the world for a global discussion on 
nutrition.  The  vast  majority  of  countries  represented 
in  this  Hall  participate  in  it,  and  we  take  pride  in 
that.  I  would  recall  the  message  that  comes  from 
Milan — “Feeding the planet, energy for life” — which 
is a visionary motto, chosen more than eight years ago, 
that touches directly upon our discussion today.
At the same time, we are ready to work in the right 
direction  in  every  field.  I  personally  participated  in 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development, in Addis Ababa. I think it is crucial that 
when Italy heads the Group of Seven in 2017, it should 
lead  the  way  by  being  one  of  the  major  international 
donors. Italy is perfectly positioned to foster dialogue 
between Europe and Africa. Geographically speaking, 
Italy  is  a  bridge.  We  must  become  a  cultural  bridge 
as  well.  And  we  must  make  significant  investments 
in  energy  security, 
in  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises, in microcredit, and in public programmes 
for development.
Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  acknowledge  the 
people who are suffering today, the countries paying the 
highest price, particularly the small island developing 
States and the countries of Africa. That said, I believe 
that the 2030 Agenda is sending a message of hope. This 
new  Agenda,  which  calls  for  a  new  collective  effort, 
does offer new hope for future generations.
I  would  like  to  conclude  on  a  personal  note. 
International assistance — cooperation — is the reason 
why I am a politician. As a young man entering politics 
as  a  volunteer  20  years  ago,  I  was  already  passionate 
about the impact of development assistance on ordinary 
people.  I  realized  that  I  wanted  to  run  for  office  and 
make a difference. Politics is that — the possibility to 
make a difference, not only at the level of Government, 
but also for the people outside the Government. Twenty 
years later, as the Prime Minister of my country, I am 
particularly honoured to be able to say to the General 
Assembly  that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development is not just an opportunity for the official 
international community to orient itself; it is also the 
best opportunity ever to bring a fairer future and hope 
to ordinary people.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic 
of Italy for his statement.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the  Head  of 
Government of the Republic of Tunisia.
Mr.  Habib  Essid,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Essid  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank and congratulate Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon  and  all  those  who  participated  in  bringing 
about the success of the negotiations on the post-2015 
sustainable development agenda. I wish to express my 
esteem for their efforts in this area.
I am more than a little proud to be taking part in this 
special Summit today, which has been convened by the 
United Nations to reflect the international community’s 
recognition of how important development is and how 
the issue is linked to the aspirations of all human beings 
to happiness, a dignified life, well-being, security and 
balanced  development,  without  discrimination.  These 
rights apply in all countries.
Working  with  civil  society,  Tunisia  adopted  an 
integrated  development  policy  —  overall  and  by 
sector  —  based  on  the  complementarity  between 
demographic  and  environmental  factors,  on  the  one 
hand,  and  development  factors,  on  the  other  hand. 
Tunisia’s  success  in  meeting  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  reflects  the  seriousness 
with  which  our  country  is  striving,  together  with 
other  countries  worldwide,  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
development around the world. However, ours is only 
a  relative  success,  since  we  have  recorded  failures  in 
the form of gaps in development among regions and a 
persistently high level of unemployment, which has had 
a negative impact on economic development.
Notwithstanding  the  scale  of  these  challenges, 
post-revolution  Tunisia  has  adopted  some  radical 
policy reforms. It has thus managed to consolidate the 
principles of the Republic, in particular the fundamental 
values of democracy and human rights, which are now 
enshrined in the Constitution of our Second Republic. 
We also are working on a collective approach to reform 
based  on  a  national  vision  that  was  developed  in  a 
28/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
five-year development plan with a focus on achieving 
maximum  social  justice  and  carrying  out  affirmative 
action policies designed to help those who experienced 
discrimination and marginalization in the past.
to  create 
Tunisia  played  an  active  role  in  the  preliminary 
negotiations  and  efforts 
the  post-2015 
development agenda as a member of the Open Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  As  such, 
we  were  involved  in  various  meetings  and  actively 
participated in negotiations among Governments with a 
view to their definition. We took a number of initiatives 
in Tunisia, such as consultative meetings in Tunis and 
in  the  various  regions.  We  also,  in  cooperation  with 
specialized United Nations agencies, conducted various 
surveys  to  find  out  the  kind  of  Tunisia  Tunisians 
wanted to have. Some of the survey results, drawn from 
a  sample  of  10,000  participating  citizens,  who  shared 
their  aspirations  and  concerns  with  respect  to  our 
national  development  programme,  provided  the  basis 
for our national plan.
When preparating to participate in this Summit, we 
decided that we would be forthright in expressing our 
views on current concerns. We would like to reiterate 
that  the  ongoing  plagues  affecting  societies,  such  as 
terrorism,  lack  of  security,  and  sectarian  and  ethnic 
conflicts,  all  require  serious  efforts  on  our  part  to 
take  into  account  the  diverse  development  situations, 
especially  those  in  the  most  disadvantaged  regions 
of  the  world.  The  achievement  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  will  depend  on  how  serious  the  international 
community is in translating those Goals into concrete 
reality  on  the  ground  so  that  no  one  is  left  behind  or 
excluded. 
Tunisia is concerned about the need to establish a 
framework for follow-up mechanisms to ensure that the 
Goals are effectively implemented. To that end, we are 
establishing partnerships with all stakeholders in civil 
society, Government and international organizations in 
full transparency and with credibility and seriousness.
Finally,  I  cannot  conclude  without  reiterating  my 
gratitude to all members of the international community 
for working towards the aspiration for well-being of all 
humankind.  All  such  aspirations  and  principles  serve 
as the foundation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the Head of Government of the Republic of Tunisia for 
his statement.
Mr.  Habib  Essid,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Hellenic Republic.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Tsipras (Greece): It is very important that our 
post-2015 development agenda address the interrelated 
challenges  of  eradicating  poverty  and  achieving 
sustainable  development  by  introducing  a  signal  set 
of new Sustainable Development Goals that call for a 
balance among the economic, social and environmental 
dimensions of development. But the questions remain. 
How  can  we  ensure  that  in  the  next  15  years  we  do 
not  repeat  the  same  mistakes  as  in  the  past  15  years 
or the 15 before that? Why is it that in the past 30 plus 
years the security, economic, social and environmental 
challenges we face on a global and regional level stay 
the same or get even worse?
Our  experience  in  Greece  could  be  instructive. 
Greece is at the centre of three overlapping crises — a 
eurozone economic crisis, as a result of neoliberal policy 
choices that led to a 25 per cent decrease in our gross 
domestic  product  in  the  past  five  years;  a  security 
crisis, because of the increasing instability surrounding 
Greece in North Africa, the Middle East and the Black 
Sea; and a refugee crisis, resulting in the mass migration 
of hundreds of thousands of people seeking a better life 
in Europe.
In order to face such challenges, we must set and 
strive  for  goals  such  as  the  ones  we  discuss  today, 
but our experience in Greece shows that it will not be 
enough. None of the challenges we face in Greece, in 
our broader region, in Europe or even on a global level, 
can  be  dealt  with  solely  by  setting  goals  and  leaving 
the  framework  in  which  we  function  untouched  and 
beyond dispute. We cannot talk substantially about aid 
to developing countries or loans from developed ones 
unless  we  tackle  the  issue  of  debt  as  an  international 
challenge at the centre of our global financial system. 
In all competent forums, including this one, we need to 
talk about how the restructuring or reprofiling of public 
debt can be linked with development.
15-29247
29/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
Historical experience shows that debt restructuring 
is necessary for recovery, even for developed countries, 
as was the case for Germany in 1953. We cannot talk 
about  the  eradication  of  poverty  or  unemployment 
unless we can discuss how to build or improve welfare 
States  instead  of  destroying  them.  We  must  distance 
ourselves  from  the  neoliberal  idea  that  markets  are 
the  sole  resource  allocator  in  the  economy.  We  also 
cannot talk about a solid State tax base when the global 
financial  system  supports  and  encourages  tax  havens 
and  the  founding  of  off-shore  companies.  In  just  the 
same  way,  we  cannot  talk  about  a  solid  tax  system 
unless  democratically  elected  Governments  retain  the 
right  to  decide  on  whom  they  choose  to  lay  the  tax 
burden.
A  substantial  development  agenda  can  take  root 
only in an economic, financial and political environment 
that fosters development. Greece, as a pillar of stability 
in our region, will consistently promote and support all 
efforts  for  such  a  global  and  European  economic  and 
financial system — a system that will allow our 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development to flourish in the 
next  15  years,  rather  than  suffocating  it  as  happened 
in the past 30 years. Of course, it will not be easy. As 
the great economist John Maynard Keynes said, “The 
difficulty lies not so much in developing new ideas as 
in escaping from old ones.”
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Hellenic  Republic  for  his 
statement.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the  First 
Vice-President of the European Union.
Mr.  Timmermans 
It 
(European  Union): 
is 
astonishing  just  how  much  has  happened  since  the 
Millennium Summit. We all know the figures, but if you 
actually picture the people behind them, they become 
more than just numbers. Just think about it: a quarter 
of the world’s population was born after that Summit. 
Today,  they  are  15  years  old  or  younger.  Of  all  these 
kids, 9 out of 10 now get to go to school. Those who 
are babies or toddlers are half as likely to die as they 
would have been in 1990, and their mothers are half as 
likely  to  die  in  childbirth.  For  the  girls  among  them, 
their  chances  of  having  real  opportunities  —  even  if 
by  no  means  equal  opportunities  yet  —  have  greatly 
improved at school, at work and in life. In short, many 
millions have come into a much better world than the 
generation before them.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have 
indeed made a difference and, as important, they helped 
us  to  unite  against  indifference.  The  European  Union 
helped to drive this agenda because it believes this is in 
essence what the United Nations was set up to achieve: 
social progress and a fairer future. 
We are now ready for the next chapter. The MDGs 
showed  us  that  the  lack  of  development  of  some 
countries is a threat to all of us, but so is unsustainable 
development  on  a  global  scale.  This  is  the  challenge 
that today we commit to overcoming together. 
That  makes  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  even  more  universal 
than  the  previous  one.  The  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) are not just for some countries, but for all 
countries — rich and poor alike. Yes, the list is long, but 
these Goals are comprehensive because they reflect the 
reality of today’s world and the way today’s problems 
are daunting, complex and interlinked.
For the very first time in the history of humankind, 
the boundaries of the planet are actually within sight. 
Inequalities  are  increasing  and  social  cohesion  is 
eroding.  Global  competition  for  resources  is  at  an 
all-time  high.  The  models  that  worked  for  so  many 
of  us  in  the  past  are  not  ones  that  will  work  for  all 
of  us  in  the  future.  We  have  to  redefine  our  societies 
and  our  relationship  with  nature.  Of  course,  this 
feels  threatening,  but  fear  can  be  a  powerful  engine. 
We  have  to  be  creative  because,  fundamentally,  this 
is  about  rethinking  everything  we  do.  This  pertains 
to  all  of  us  —  people,  companies,  Governments  and 
international organizations.
In  countries  like  ours,  there  is  no  excuse  for  not 
meeting our 0.7 per cent target for official development 
assistance.  It  is  more  urgent  than  ever.  But  this  time 
under  the  SDGs  it  is  not  about  just  footing  the  bill. 
Those countries fortunate enough to have a developed 
or  emerging  economy  are  committed  to  playing  a 
different role. This is not just about development aid. It 
is just as much about change at home.
My main message, Europe’s message, to all these 
countries is: it is also our turn now to step out of our 
comfort zone. It is about very concrete questions: how 
we  have  to  turn  around  our  economies  to  make  them 
circular,  leaving  behind  our  take-make-consume-and-
30/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
dispose  growth  pattern  and  how  we  must  mend  our 
societies’ social fabric and how we integrate newcomers, 
which  is  all  the  more  important  when  they  come  as 
refugees fleeing war and persecution. It is about clean 
air, water and oceans. It is about more resilient cities that 
are healthy, inclusive and safe. It is about tackling food 
waste. A third of the food worldwide is thrown away, 
which is frankly shocking beyond belief. It is about our 
collective  action  to  keep  the  global  temperature  rise 
below 2° Celsius.
These are not impossible goals. We have innovation 
on our side to find solutions, if we have the will to act. 
In  Europe,  we  are  determined  to  do  this  jointly  and 
we  want  to  fully  engage  with  the  United  Nations  in 
experience-sharing,  capacity-building  and  progress-
monitoring.  We  want  to  do  this  together.  The  SDGs 
will  shape  our  development  policy  and  infuse  our 
policies  abroad  and  at  home.  Ultimately,  this  is  all 
about  governance  and  inclusiveness.  Societies  will 
accept  transformation  only  if  people  feel  their  voices 
have been heard. It is also about breaking out of silos. 
Sustainable  development  is  not  just  an  economic  or 
social challenge or an environmental problem; it is all 
three. Our efforts on each need to reinforce, rather than 
undermine, one another.
The  Agenda  is  about  eradicating  poverty  and 
putting sustainability at the heart of everything we do. 
This  is  not  just  the  right  thing  to  do,  it  is  the  smart 
thing to do: for our economy, for our environment, for 
our society and for our children and grandchildren. We 
have a world to transform. This common Agenda shows 
the way how.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Ukraine.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
President  Poroshenko:  On  behalf  of  Ukraine,  I 
express my full support for the new 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
I  would  like  to  recall  that  back  in  1992,  Ukraine 
took part in the historic United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, where 
it testified its will to shape the future on the basis of 
the principles of sustainable development. Over the 23 
years that have passed since then, we have accumulated 
extensive positive experience and at the same time have 
tasted the bitterness of defeat as proponents of war and 
terrorism have been fiercely resisting progress in many 
parts of the world. 
The  far-reaching  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) and targets, which we declared at this historic 
Summit,  open  up  new  horizons  for  humankind  and 
lay  the  foundations  for  the  sustainable  development 
of  our  planet  for  the  next  15  years.  We  commend  the 
transparency  and  inclusiveness  of  the  preparatory 
process, which culminated in the post-2015 development 
framework. More than 25,000 Ukrainians took part in 
the global consultations and expressed their own vision 
of the SDGs. Working hard to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  were  set  up  15 
years ago, our countries have considerably changed the 
lives of millions of people worldwide.
As  for  Ukraine,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
it  has  managed  to  reduce  threefold  our  poverty 
rates  —  but,  because  of  the  Russian  aggression,  we 
expect  this  rate  of  reduction  to  drop;  it  has  managed 
to improve the maternal health system; to almost halve 
child  mortality;  to  reduce  HIV/AIDS  incidence  rates; 
and  to  make  progress  in  combating  tuberculosis.  We 
will keep on working to fulfil our commitments on the 
MDGs  related  to  improving  the  quality  of  education, 
promoting gender equality and ensuring environmental 
sustainability. I am convinced that we have to build on 
the momentum generated by the MDGs to make further 
progress  in  the  priority  areas  set  out  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
There  will  be  no 
sustainable  development 
without  peace  and  freedom.  The  bitter  experience  of 
Ukraine  reveals  that  peace  and  freedom  are  principal 
preconditions  for  achieving  the  SDGs.  Sustainable 
development  is  not  achievable  where  explosions  are 
heard and peaceful people are killed. It is not achievable 
where aggressive ideologies advocating the suppression 
of some nations by other nations reign and key human 
rights and freedoms are violated.
Strengthening  universal  peace  and  promoting 
larger freedom should become a driving and unifying 
force behind our collective efforts to achieve the SDGs. 
Today, Ukraine has to implement much needed systemic 
reform  while  opposing  the  Russian  aggressor,  which 
is  attempting  to  undermine  the  democratic  European 
development that the Ukrainian people have chosen.
As  a  result  of  Russia’s  treacherous  annexation  of 
the Ukrainian Crimea and its aggression in the Donbas 
region,  thousands  of  people  have  been  killed,  critical 
15-29247
31/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
infrastructure  has  been  ruined  and  Ukraine  has  lost 
about  one  fifth  of  its  economic  potential.  Russia’s 
military  actions  against  Ukraine  have  also  increased 
environmental and epidemiological threats, along with 
the risk of social exclusion. Chemical sites in the conflict 
area in the eastern part of Ukraine and in the adjacent 
territories  represent  a  particular  danger.  The  threats 
of  potential  man-made 
technological  catastrophes 
are severe. In that context, Ukraine believes that it is 
high  time  for  the  United  Nations  to  address  the  issue 
of  environmental  protection  in  conflicts,  and  it  will 
present a specific idea to that end.
The external aggression has led to the emergence 
of  a  new  form  of  poverty  —  sudden  and  unexpected 
poverty  —  that  affects  the  lives  of  some  1.5  million 
internally  displaced  persons.  Each  day  of  the  war  in 
Donbas costs us close to $5 million that we could have 
invested in sustainable development. The crisis of the 
approximately  1.5  million  internally  displaced  people 
is the biggest problem, not only for Ukraine but for the 
whole region.
Ukraine  aspires  to  peace  and  prosperity  and, 
together  with  its  partner  States,  is  making  maximum 
efforts  to  settle  the  conflict  by  peaceful  diplomatic 
means. After putting an end to the military aggression, 
re-establishing  peace  and  restoring  Ukraine’s  full 
sovereignty  over  the  Donbas  region  and  Crimea,  it 
will be essential to return millions of people to normal 
life  and  to  restore  economic  and  social  infrastructure 
on  a  sustainable  development  basis.  Ukraine  stands 
ready to accomplish that difficult task and calls on all 
international partners to cooperate towards that end.
Ukraine is steadfastly following the path of reform 
set out in its Strategy 2020 for sustainable development 
Despite  existing  challenges,  we  have  translated  our. 
strategic  tasks  into  tangible  actions.  Against  the 
backdrop  of  implementing  its  Association  Agreement 
with  the  European  Union,  as  well  as  its  resisting  the 
ongoing  Russian  aggression,  the  focus  of  Ukrainian 
society 
is  first  and  foremost  on  fighting 
corruption;  ensuring  equal  opportunities  and  social 
justice; maintaining an effective public health system; 
promoting decent work; ensuring affordable education 
for  all;  promoting  innovation,  development  and  the 
building  of  sustainable  infrastructure;  and  ensuring  a 
sustainable energy supply, food security and a healthy 
environment.
today 
I would like to assure those present that, in order 
to  achieve  the  SDGs  at  the  national  level,  Ukraine 
will  implement  new  programmes  and  projects  aimed 
at  ensuring  macroeconomic  stability,  environmental 
balance  and  social  cohesion.  The  SDGs  will  serve  as 
an overarching framework for further transformation in 
Ukraine, including in the context of implementing our 
Strategy 2020.
As  a  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community,  Ukraine  seeks  to  take  an  active  part  in 
addressing current global challenges as a prerequisite for 
achieving the SDGs. With regard to the environmental 
dimension  in  particular,  we  need  to  act  vigorously 
to  prevent  the  threats  posed  by  climate  change  and 
the  degradation  of  the  environment.  Reaching  a 
compromise  on  a  balanced  climate  agreement  would 
bode  well  for  our  collective  efforts  towards  that  aim. 
Implementing new, expanded models of scientific and 
technical  cooperation  among  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations, in particular through the establishment 
of  a  universal  mechanism  for  technology  transfer,  is 
key to bridging many gaps in sustainable development.
I am convinced that by working hand in hand and 
implementing  our  post-2015  development  Goals,  as 
well as by jointly tackling existing challenges, we will 
ensure that humankind successfully negotiates the path 
to progress.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the President of Ukraine for his statement.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear a statement by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.
(Russian  Federation) 
in 
Russian):  The  promotion  of  socioeconomic  progress 
and prosperity for all countries and peoples lies at the 
very  core  of  our  Organization’s  mission.  Forging  a 
global partnership for development has been one of the 
most  significant  achievements  of  the  United  Nations, 
and one of which we can all rightly be proud. 
Mr.  Lavrov 
(spoke 
Fifteen  years  ago,  it  was  the  United  Nations  that 
made  it  possible  for  the  international  community 
to  unite  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  joint  efforts  of  Member  States, 
international non-governmental organizations, business 
and  academia  all  facilitated  considerable  progress 
32/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
That 
in 
attaining 
success 
impressive 
in  providing  access  to  health  care  and  education  for 
millions of people around the world, fighting poverty 
and hunger and reducing maternal and child mortality. 
the 
Millenniium  Development  Goals  is  not,  of  course,a 
reason for complacency. Addressing global challenges 
such  as  eradicating  extreme  poverty,  combating 
inequality,  ensuring 
food  security  and  healthy 
lifestyles, and shifting to more sustainable patterns of 
production  and  consumption  will  require  additional 
financial, 
resources, 
backed by an environment of constructive cooperation 
and mutual assistance and understanding. Many States 
still  cannot  alone  overcome  development  challenges, 
which  are  often  accompanied  by  political  instability, 
discrimination  and  other  constraints,  and  they  need 
large-scale  international  support.  A  good  basis  for 
forging  such  cooperation  is  provided  by  the  outcome 
of the third International Conference on Financing for 
Development, held in July in Addis Ababa. 
industrial  and 
technological 
the 
and 
strengthening 
Russia  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  new  global 
agenda  for  the  period  up  to  2030.  We  stand  ready  to 
actively  support  its  successful  implementation  at 
all  levels.  Guided  by  the  principles  of  solidarity,  our 
country will continue to make a significant contribution 
to  building 
economic, 
intellectual,  information,  scientific  and  technological 
capacities  of  partner  countries.  We  will  further 
facilitate  the  effective  utilization  of  the  opportunities 
provided  by  global  markets  for  goods  and  services, 
diversification  of  economic  ties,  active  participation 
in  integration  processes.  We  will  utilize  the  potential 
of  women  and  youth  and  promote  a  child-friendly 
environment. Russia intends to use the achievements in 
science and technology, especially in information and 
communication technologies, which are essential today 
for  accelerating  global  development  and  for  bridging 
the gap between developed and developing countries.
Russia’s  development  assistance  is  consistently 
aimed at resolving the most pressing challenges facing 
countries in need. In our efforts, we neither lecture our 
partners on how they should build their lives nor try to 
impose  political  models  or  values.  Our  main  purpose 
is  to  eliminate  poverty.  One  of  the  effective  levers 
here is, of course, lightening the debt burden. Within 
the framework of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries 
(HIPC)  Initiative,  our  country  has  written  off  over 
$20 billion of principal debt of African countries alone. 
Russia also contributes to reducing the debt burden of 
the poorest countries, beyond the HIPC, by using debt-
for-aid swaps. 
Our  country  has  been  funding  and  implementing 
aid projects in the fields of health, energy, education, 
food security and infrastructure. We use the potential of 
the United Nations development system organizations 
and humanitarian agencies, whose programmes do not 
have conditions or political biases. Despite the current 
challenging  economic  environment,  Russia  remains  a 
responsible and reliable partner of developing countries 
in addressing the most pressing challenges confronting 
their people, for example, combating the spread of HIV/
AIDs,  tuberculosis  and  malaria;  maternal,  infant  and 
child mortality; and the Ebola outbreak.
Our 
international  development  assistance 
is 
increasing.  Last  year  it  grew  by  more  than  20  per 
cent.  We  provided  more  than  $127  million  through 
the  United  Nations  system  alone,  and  our  overall 
official  development  assistance,  calculated  according 
to the methodology of the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development, exceeded $875 million. 
We  will  continue  to  increase  our  participation  in 
multilateral development assistance efforts. In doing so, 
we base our efforts on the belief that helping countries 
in need to establish viable social and economic systems 
is  an  investment  in  global  stability,  an  essential 
precondition for building a more effective and resilient 
international system and a factor in the well-being and 
prosperity of humankind as a whole. 
sustainable 
We often speak of the indivisibility of international 
peace and security. The new social and economic agenda 
should  also  ensure  understanding  of  the  indivisibility 
of 
international 
community’s task is to work together to create external 
conditions  conducive  to  socioeconomic  progress.  It  is 
especially important to ensure fair trade conditions and 
greater access to cutting-edge technologies.
development.  The 
Russia  supports  creating  an  equitable  global 
economic  order  and  improving  the  regulation  of 
global  development.  We  call  for  action  based  on  the 
universally  recognized  standards  of  international  law 
and in the spirit of collective decision-making. We will 
increase  our  cooperation  with  our  partners  in  useful 
formats such as the Group of 20 and the BRICS group 
of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, and 
we are open to dialogue within the framework of other 
informal  structures,  while,  of  course,  respecting  the 
central coordinating role of the United Nations. 
15-29247
33/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
We  urge  that  more  consistent  efforts  be  made 
to 
reform  organizational  governance 
structures, 
particularly of the International Monetary Fund and the 
World Bank, in order to strengthen developing countries’ 
positions. We believe it essential that the interaction of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the 
World  Trade  Organization  be  made  more  effective, 
in the interests of harmonizing the governance of our 
global monetary, financial and trade systems. We also 
see an important role for the specialized United Nations 
agencies in those processes.
Russia remains firmly committed to strengthening 
regional  cooperation,  including  integration  within 
Eurasia.  The  recently  established  Eurasian  Economic 
Union is becoming a significant factor in the creation 
of conditions conducive to positive, sustained and long-
term  economic  growth  in  participating  countries.  In 
developing it, we have always supported harmonizing 
it with various integration mechanisms in both East and 
West.
The practice of taking unilateral coercive measures 
that  violate  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  runs 
directly counter to the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Such  illegitimate  and  restrictive 
acts, which also undermine market principles in trade, 
finance, technology and investment, should cease. That 
also applies to lifting the embargo on Cuba and other 
sanctions imposed by bypassing the Security Council.
We  consider  finding  a  solution  to  the  problem  of 
climate change to be a key precondition for achieving 
sustainable  development.  Our  country  is  a  world 
leader  in  the  cumulative  reduction  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions and compensates for increases in emissions in 
other countries and regions around the world. We have 
exceeded  our  commitments  under  the  Kyoto  Protocol 
by  reducing  our  emissions  to  31  per  cent  below  their 
1990 levels. In the past 20 years, Russia’s energy sector 
emissions have fallen by 37 per cent, comparable to the 
five-year  emissions  of  all  European  Union  countries 
and the three-year emissions of the United States.
In  the  context  of  the  preparations  for  the  Paris 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
we  have  already  announced  the  parameters  of  our 
potential  commitments.  In  that  regard,  we  would  like 
to highlight the role of Russia’s northern forests, which 
absorb  around  600  million  tons  of  carbon  dioxide  a 
year. We will be adding that factor to those being taken 
into account within the new agreement.
We  propose 
that  consideration  be  given 
to 
strengthening  our  efforts  in  line  with  the  operating 
practices  of  the  United  Nations  Forum  on  Forests. 
Within the framework of the Forum, we could discuss 
how  to  create  some  kind  of  United  Nations  centre 
for  planning,  protecting  and  restoring  forests  with  a 
view  to  contributing  to  sustainable  development  and 
controlling climate change. In general, we believe it is 
essential that the decisions at the forthcoming session be 
comprehensive, legally binding and universal. Climate 
change is one of the most serious issues of our times, 
and  the  quality  and  effectiveness  of  any  agreement 
should have top priority.
and 
environmental 
In  this,  its  seventieth  year,  the  United  Nations 
remains  the  main  international  forum  for  developing 
basic  principles  and  standards  for  socioeconomic, 
humanitarian 
cooperation. 
Multilateral associations, including informal leadership 
alliances, should organize their efforts in line with the 
fundamental agreements achieved within this universal 
and indisputably legitimate Organization. We are ready 
to  make  a  comprehensive  contribution  to  increasing 
the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations. 
I  believe  that  together  we  can  achieve  effective  and 
timely  implementation  of  our  new  agenda  for  global 
development.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):The 
Assembly will now hear a statement by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar.
Mr.  Al-Attiyah  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
would  first  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
convening  this  Summit,  giving  impetus  to  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
The  world  has  seen  profound  changes  since  the 
launch of the Millennium Development Goals in 2000. 
While many of those Goals have been met, many have 
not. Today, the international community is committing 
to a new post-2015 development agenda, with a view to 
realizing security, stability, prosperity and sustainable 
development  for  our  countries  and  peoples,  based 
on  lessons  learned  and  our  willingness  to  address 
current  and  potential  challenges  and  our  shared  and 
differentiated responsibilities.
Ensuring 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  requires  that  the 
the  successful  achievement  of 
34/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
international  community  tackle  and  find  solutions  to 
the  obstacles  to  sustainable  development  —  whether 
political, structural or related to a lack of capacity — in 
a  practical  and  realistic  way  that  takes  into  account 
the  basic  needs  of  developing  countries,  particularly 
by  assisting  them  in  their  efforts  to  deal  with  their 
increasing marginalization in the global economy and 
to  benefit  from  the  economic  and  scientific  potential 
available today.
National  policies 
should 
also 
reflect 
the 
humanitarian  and  social  aspects  of  development, 
prioritizing  the  development  of  strategies  that  meet 
people’s basic needs and promote democracy and human 
rights, together with establishing rules for transparency 
and fighting corruption on the road to good governance. 
A commitment to the principles of the rule of law and 
accountability is essential to any development strategy, 
as  was  reaffirmed  at  the  thirteenth  United  Nations 
Congress  on  Crime  Prevention  and  Criminal  Justice, 
held in Doha in April.
Partnership  and 
international  cooperation  are 
crucial  to  sustainable  development.  They  should  be 
conducted on a basis of effective collaboration among 
nations,  engaging  especially  with  all  sectors,  public 
and private, and ensuring effective participation on the 
part of civil society and all other groups in society. 
Development assistance from developed countries 
to  developing  and  least  developed  countries  should 
also be provided without restrictions or politicization. 
Donor  countries  should  do  their  utmost  to  enable 
countries  receiving  aid  to  achieve  development  and 
establish  policies  that  will  enable  them  to  provide 
for  their  people’s  basic  needs  and  break  the  cycles  of 
poverty  and  dependence.  They  should  also  promote 
policies directed at partnerships, investment and a true 
spirit of cooperation. 
I  should  note  here  that  in  recent  years  Qatar  has 
provided  development  assistance  to  many  countries 
around 
the  world  dealing  with  economic  and 
humanitarian  difficulties  and  natural  disasters.  In 
2014, this assistance amounted to more than 5.9 billion 
Qatari riyals. That represents 0.76 per cent of our gross 
domestic  product,  and  it  complemented  the  technical 
assistance we offered in the fields of education, health 
and  other  areas  in  accordance  with  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2). 
In  this  context,  and  proceeding  from  our  keen 
interest in raising the levels of education and providing 
equal  educational  opportunity  to  all,  we  have  sought 
to duplicate our successful experiment in development 
assistance  and  international  cooperation  with  a  view 
to  reducing  the  number  of  children  deprived  of  basic 
education all over the world, particularly those living in 
conflict zones. Six million children, including 600,000 
children from fraternal Syria, have benefitted from the 
Qatari initiative “Educate A Child”, launched in 2012 
in  conjunction  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees.
Realizing  sustainable  development  at  national, 
regional  and  international  levels  requires  political 
will, good faith and a true spirit of cooperation among 
nations. In this context, Qatar has been keen to assume 
its regional and international responsibilities with regard 
to attaining development objectives. In 2012, we hosted 
the eighteenth Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
and we look forward to the Paris Conference. We hope 
that an agreement that embodies our responsibilities in a 
common and differentiated manner will be reached and 
that it will assist in building the capacity of developing 
countries to adapt to climate change.
Out of our conviction that sustainable development 
cannot be achieved without food security, His Highness 
Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State 
of  Qatar,  launched  a  new  initiative  with  regard  to 
drylands, desertification and drought all over the world. 
We  look  forward  to  seeing  the  initiative’s  positive 
impact in 2015 and beyond. 
The  realization  of  all  our  objectives  cannot  be 
achieved in occupied territories. Therefore, redoubled 
efforts to assist the development process itself should 
be made at the international level for the cause of peace. 
Proceeding from our firm conviction on this point, 
we  have  deployed  great  efforts  in  favour  of  young 
people.  We  have  encouraged  their  role  in  society  and 
provided an enabling environment that permits them to 
play that role fully. In April 2015, in Doha, we held a 
youth forum on crime prevention and criminal justice.
Qatar  has  made  great  strides  in  the  sustainable 
development process. We are pleased that the post-2015 
development  agenda  is  in  line  with  our  objectives  at 
the national level and serves the economic, social and 
environmental targets that we seek to reach, particularly 
in the fields of security, health, education, culture and 
sports. 
15-29247
35/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
Qatar  has  taken  great  initiative  to  invest  in  its 
citizens. We have laid out a comprehensive development 
plan  aimed  at  transforming  Qatar  into  a  developed 
country capable of providing a high standard of living 
for current and future generations.
Qatar  takes  a  keen  interest  in  the  role  of  sport  in 
promoting  social  cohesion  and  solidarity.  We  believe 
that sport helps to teach the virtues of equality, tolerance 
and peace to the young generation and therefore has a 
positive impact. 
Qatar  also  considers  culture  to  be  a  key  element 
for  development  and  an  important  factor  in  social 
cohesion, economic growth, poverty eradication, peace 
and  security  and  human  rights.  We  have  therefore 
deployed great efforts in the fields of cultural diversity, 
intercultural dialogue and development programmes in 
the belief that culture is of great importance, be it for 
education or the environment.
In conclusion, we reiterate our commitment to doing 
our utmost to help the international community achieve 
sustainable development and express our willingness to 
provide whatever material or technical support we can.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Maldives.
Ms.  Maumoon  (Maldives):  This  is  a  watershed 
moment  in  human  history.  The  hallowed  halls  of  this 
building have been abuzz with hope. The air is filled 
with  excitement.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development 
the 
imagination  of  every  child,  every  woman  and  every 
man, in every corner of the world. This Agenda has the 
potential to truly transform our world. There has never 
been  a  time  more  auspicious,  a  time  when  so  many 
leaders gathered here. We must not squander it.
(resolution  70/1)  has  captured 
It was 15 years ago that we made the solemn pledge 
to free the world from poverty, disease, discrimination 
and  environmental  degradation  (see  resolution  55/2). 
Fifteen  years  later,  while  our  successes  are  many,  so 
are  our  challenges.  We  may  have  reduced  maternal 
mortality, but women are still paid 24 per cent less than 
men. We may have reduced the rate of absolute poverty, 
yet people living in slum-like conditions are plentiful. 
We  may  have  protected  and  safeguarded  some  of  our 
natural  environment,  but  carbon  emissions  keep  on 
increasing. There may still be a long way to go, but we 
have the potential to achieve more.
The Maldives is fully committed to the achievement 
of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals with their 169 
targets.  The  Maldives  is  an  Millennium  Development 
Goal  (MDGs)  success  story,  and  we  are  proud  of  it. 
We are fortunate that the MDGs were formulated at a 
time when the Maldives was experiencing phenomenal 
growth  in  the  economic  and  social  sectors.  We 
incorporated the Goals into our development planning 
and  aimed  at  achieving  unprecedented  development 
gains. 
To sustain that trajectory of growth, the Maldives 
has  to  overcome  several  challenges,  which  is  a  task 
that will test our perseverance. Adjusting to the unique 
vulnerabilities  of  a  small  island  developing  State  and 
the different structural conditions of a middle-income 
country present challenges of unprecedented magnitude 
for a country as small as the Maldives.
In spite of these challenges, we aim high and dream 
big. Our vision of development is inclusive and holistic. 
A  key  strategy  of  President  Yameen’s  Government  is 
investing  in  youth,  including  young  women,  through 
skills development and job creation. An ambitious new 
set of policies has been launched to enable women — one 
half of our population — to become productive partners 
in  national  development  in  whatever  capacity  they 
choose  for  themselves,  free  from  coercion  or  social 
pressure.
Our  vision  of  development  aims  to  make  the 
Maldives a resilient, economically diverse, high-income 
economy. We are aiming for economic transformation, 
increased  investment,  and  private-sector-led  growth. 
We have intensified our efforts to develop an investor-
friendly  environment  through  key  legislation  and 
improved macroeconomic stability.
The  sustainable  development  of  small 
island 
developing  States  like  the  Maldives  will  never  be 
realized  unless  we  make  meaningful  progress  in  the 
fight against climate change. Climate change threatens 
modern civilization as we know it. It threatens the very 
existence of many small island developing States. That 
is  why  we  call  on  emitting  countries  to  reduce  their 
emissions. That is why we ask that the bold statements 
be  matched  with  legally  binding  commitments  and 
actions in Paris later this year.
The 2030 Agenda is a beautifully drafted document. 
It is an agenda of hope for the hopeless, an agenda to 
fight poverty and injustice and an agenda that we hope 
will narrow the gap between the few millions that live 
36/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
in prosperity and the billions that live in poverty. It is 
an agenda that promises to save my country and more 
than  40  other  low-lying  coastal  nations  from  climate 
calamity; a calamity that, if allowed, would undoubtedly 
result in the painful demise of those nations.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Yet  the  new  Agenda  is  still  only  words  on  paper. 
It  is  our  duty  to  give  meaning  to  those  words  and  to 
realize the true intention behind every Goal and every 
target.  We  can  do  that  only  through  a  commitment 
to  implementation  –  backing  words  not  only  with 
financial  support,  but  also  with  capacity-building, 
technology transfer, a data revolution, and meaningful 
trade liberalization. Above all, we need an institutional 
framework that not only bolsters capacity, but takes in 
account each country’s unique characteristics. It is now 
up to us to make the new Agenda a reality for the future 
of our people and our common home, planet Earth.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on the Minister for Environment and Water Resources 
of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr. Balakrishnan (Singapore): Today we celebrate 
15  years  of  significant  progress  in  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. The 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) is built on a 
solid foundation. The new development Agenda sets out 
a commendable set of goals. It reflects our most urgent 
collective  aspirations.  It  also  gives  us  the  tools  to  do 
development  better.  No  single  model  of  development 
will be applicable to all countries. Countries will have 
to choose from the menu in the Agenda in order to find 
appropriate  solutions  for  their  own  national  priorities 
and unique circumstances. 
Small  States,  especially  small  island  developing 
States,  are  vulnerable  and  feel  the  weight  of  global 
challenges most intensely. Since more than half of the 
States Members of the United Nations are small island 
developing States, we believe that our views, concerns 
and voices should be heard and should be reflected in 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. 
Singapore  is  both  a  small  island  developing  State 
and  a  city-State.  Since  we  became  independent  50 
years  ago,  we  have  pursued  sustainable  development. 
Despite,  and  perhaps  because  of,  our  limited  natural 
resources,  we  have  had  to  achieve  economic  growth 
while  preserving  a  good  living  environment  for  our 
people.  Although  we  have  one  of  the  world’s  highest 
population densities, we have maintained our greenery 
and  biodiversity,  and  we  have  enhanced  our  citizens’ 
quality  of  life.  This  year,  we  were  deeply  honoured 
that our Singapore Botanic Gardens were inscribed as 
a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization World Heritage Site.
We  believe  that  a  dynamic  economy,  an  inclusive 
society  and  a  sustainable  environment  are  not  zero-
sum trade-offs. They are mutually reinforcing and help 
create a virtuous cycle of development. We deem such 
an approach to be relevant to the 2030 Agenda. 
Two  factors  are  key  to  Singapore’s  development: 
first, pragmatism in our governance and implementation, 
and secondly, partnerships, which have helped to build 
capacity and develop our own human resources, as well 
as those of other developing countries that work with 
us. 
Singapore’s  approach 
to  policy-making  and 
governance  is  based  on  pragmatism.  We  focus  on 
outcomes,  not  ideologies.  Our  policies  are  based  on 
what  works  —  even  if  they  are  sometimes  initially 
unpopular or unfashionable.
Take the example of water. Our tiny island is only 
700  square  kilometres  in  area.  That  severely  restricts 
our  ability  to  collect  and  store  water.  To  diversify 
our  water  supply,  we  have  had  to  expand  our  water 
catchment  areas  so  that  the  entire  island  is  a  water 
catchment area. That has meant systematically cleaning 
up all our rivers, damming them wherever possible, and 
improving our reservoirs. We use membrane technology 
extensively  to  turn  even  waste  water  into  high-grade 
water, which we call NEWater, for both industrial use 
and indirect potable use. Recycled water is now readily 
accepted as an integral source of water for our island.
We  do  not  assume  that  any  solution  lasts  forever. 
We  have  to  constantly  adapt  to  changing  realities. 
Singapore recently set up a Smart Nation Programme 
Office.  It  works  across  the  whole  of  Government 
using technology to enhance the quality of life, create 
more  economic  opportunities  for  all  and  strengthen 
community  bonds  in  the  midst  of  great  diversity. 
One  project,  called  Virtual  Singapore,  offers  a 
three-dimensional  map  of  Singapore  enriched  with 
multiple  layers  of  data  about  buildings,  land  and  the 
environment.  Citizens, 
industry,  Government  and 
academia  can  work  together  to  monitor  and  tackle 
climate  change  and  other  environmental  challenges 
promptly and quickly. We even use Twitter and social 
15-29247
37/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
media as a platform. For example, we have 200 smart 
sensors in our drains, and they automatically tweet if 
water levels or flood probabilities increase. They are, 
perhaps, the world’s first automatic tweeting drains!
been 
The  second  factor 
journey 
in  Singapore’s  sustainable 
development 
has 
collaborative 
partnerships.  Given  our  lack  of  natural  resources,  we 
have had to focus on developing our human capital. We 
invest  heavily  in  education  so  as  to  help  our  children 
achieve  their  full  potential  and  to  ensure  that  our 
workforce  remains  constantly  updated  with  the  skills 
needed for the future. As a fledgling nation, Singapore 
benefited  from  technical  assistance  and  cooperation 
from  the  World  Bank  and  United  Nations  agencies  in 
the  early  years  of  our  nationhood.  In  the  1970s  and 
1980s, training programmes with companies like Tata 
of India, Philips of Holland and Sanwa Bank of Japan 
helped  our  workers  improve  their  productivity  and 
knowledge.
To  play  the  scenario  forward,  we  started  the 
Singapore Cooperation Programme (SCP) in 1992. Each 
year, we conduct about 300 courses for approximately 
7,000  officials  from  our  fellow  developing  countries. 
We welcomed our 100,000th SCP participant in April 
this year. As a responsible global citizen, Singapore will 
continue to give back to the international community. 
Today, I am pleased to announce the launch of a new 
sustainable development programme under the SCP to 
support the 2030 Agenda. 
Through  that  programme,  Singapore  will  work 
with  our  friends  to  develop  capacity  at  three  levels. 
First, at the senior leadership level, we will partner with 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  Global 
Centre  for  Public  Service  Excellence  to  jointly  offer 
leadership programmes on good governance and public 
sector institutions. Secondly, at the policy level, we will 
cooperate with United Nations Settlements Programme, 
UN-Habitat,  to  roll  out  a  multi-year  programme  on 
sustainable cities and urbanization for 100 cities in the 
developing world. Thirdly, at the ground implementation 
level, we will work with partners like United Nations 
Children’s Fund and UN-Water to provide training and 
consultancy  services  focused  on  delivering  practical 
local solutions in the areas of water and sanitation for 
countries in need. 
The  unprecedented  scale  and  ambition  of  the 
2030  Agenda  require  renewed  commitment  and 
enhanced partnerships among all stakeholders: States, 
international  financial 
international  organizations, 
institutions, the private sector and civil society. Many 
issues of sustainable development cannot be addressed 
unilaterally, 
For example, transboundary haze from forest and 
peat-land  fires  in  South-East  Asia  impairs  the  health 
of millions of people in the region. It compromises the 
safety  of  aircraft  and  damages  our  regional  economy. 
The large quantities of carbon dioxide released set back 
our global efforts to mitigate climate change. The issue 
is  directly  linked  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  particularly  Goal  3,  on  ensuring 
healthy  lives  and  promoting  well-being  for  all,  and 
Goal 15, on the sustainable management of forests and 
the  prevention  of  land  degradation  and  biodiversity 
loss.  While  individual  countries  have  been  tackling 
the  problem  of  transboundary  haze,  we  need  closer 
regional and international cooperation in order to apply 
legal and commercial pressure on errant companies so 
as  to  prevent  them  from  profiting  from  unsustainable 
land and forest clearing.
The late Mr. Albert Winsemius, the United Nations 
economic adviser who helped to formulate Singapore’s 
development  policies  in  the  early  decades  of  our 
independence, once said that, as a foreigner, he could 
advise  but  could  not  steer  the  ship  for  Singaporeans. 
The  national  pride  of  ownership  and  the  innate 
motivation  of  our  people  are  the  biggest  drivers  of 
sustainable development. We applaud the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development for providing our people 
and Governments around the world with the necessary 
tools  for  taking  the  ownership  of  our  future  into  our 
own hands.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Iraq.
Mr. Al-Jaafari (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the people and Government of Iraq, I would like to 
convey  my  congratulations  to  the  Co-Chairs  on  their 
appointment to preside over this international Summit, 
which bears the hopes of humankind that we will be able 
to  overcome  the  obstacles  that  prevent  countries  and 
States  from  achieving  sustainable  development  in  an 
integrated, comprehensive way. At the outset, I would 
also  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who presented a comprehensive briefing on the United 
Nations role for the next 15 years (see A/70/PV.4).
I  have  travelled  to  United  Nations  Headquarters 
in New York from my country, Iraq. Ours is a country 
38/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
that  has  wished  to  promote  democracy,  free  elections 
and  the  participation  of  all  sectors  of  our  country’s 
population, throughout all the various Governments we 
have had since 2003. Elections have taken place under 
the supervision of the United Nations.
As  a  result  of  the  work  of  the  Organization,  our 
world  today  is  different  from  the  world  that  existed 
70  years  ago,  when  the  United  Nations  was  created. 
Despite  that,  a  number  of  things  have  remained 
the  same.  For  example,  from  the  point  of  view  of 
economics,  the  provision  of  basic  services  and  well-
being,  there  remains  inequality  among  States.  Those 
inequalities persist in developing countries and in the 
least  developed  countries.  Because  of  obstacles  and 
constraints, a number of States have not yet been able to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Despite the efforts that Member States have made 
over the past 15 years, we continue to face a number of 
global challenges that require international efforts. They 
also  require  vigorous  partnerships  backed  by  strong 
international  financing  and  oversight  mechanisms  to 
measure  progress.  Among  the  security  challenges  at 
the international level, war and terrorism have turned 
peaceful  societies  into  societies  where  poverty,  fear, 
disease  and  other  scourges  rage.  My  country  faces 
ferocious  transboundary  terrorist  attacks.  Terrorists 
generally  possess  unprecedented  financial  capacities 
that threaten international peace and security, thereby 
undermining the achievements of the MDGs. Thus they 
are  an  obstacle  to  the  elimination  and  eradication  of 
extreme poverty.
My  country,  Iraq,  faces  the  horror  of  Daesh  and 
other terrorist groups, and the international community 
must take into account its special circumstances,  which 
differ from those of any other country. My delegation 
welcomes  the  recognition  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  of 
the 
importance  of  peace  and  security  for  activities  and 
sustainable development projects in all countries. 
including 
Of  course,  it  is  difficult  to  achieve  any  adopted 
development  objectives, 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), without peace and security. 
We  welcome  the  focus  in  the  SDGs  on  refugees  and 
displaced persons. Official development assistance can 
also play a decisive role. It is crucial first and foremost 
for building infrastructure projects, especially in those 
countries that suffer from the scourge of conventional 
warfare  or  global  terrorism,  which  have  undermined 
the infrastructures of the cities and regions where they 
rage.
We  welcome  the  bold  objectives  of  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
held in Addis Ababa in July, which demonstrate a good 
understanding  of  the  challenges  facing  sustainable 
development. My country believes that we must achieve 
the  objectives  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on 
financing  for  development,  especially  for  countries 
experiencing very difficult security and environmental 
situations  that  affect  their  ability  to  finance  the 
rebuilding  of  State  infrastructures  destroyed  by  war, 
terrorism or natural disasters. 
We  must  also  take  into  account  the  refugee  and 
displaced persons crises. 
the 
Strengthening 
institutions  of 
the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  specialized  agencies  and  the 
United Nations Development Programme, is absolutely 
essential  for  the  implementation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
We  face  transnational  challenges.  Given  their 
nature,  we  need  a  more  transparent,  harmonious  and 
cohesive  world  order,  based  on  the  individual  —  on 
humans, on men and women — so as to ensure that we 
pool all our efforts for the good of development at the 
global level. We must also have cohesive and integrated 
institutions that mobilize governmental efforts to meet 
threats in a constructive and sustainable way.
My  country  considers  trade  and  industry  key 
engines  for  economic  development.  To  achieve  their 
integration into a multilateral trade system, there is a 
need to facilitate the membership of the least developed 
countries and the developing States in the World Trade 
Organization.  At  the  same  time,  in  order  to  diversify 
financial  sources,  we  must  work  to  strengthen  and 
bolster national capacities through local industries and 
exports. 
International  cooperation  in  technology  transfers 
and  the  dissemination  of  information  through  social 
networks  are  among  the  most  important  tools  for 
enabling  average  citizens  to  enjoy  access  to  reliable 
information  to  fight  extremism  and  terrorism  and  for 
strengthening  moderate  religious  thinking  so  as  to 
fight the type of thinking that sows hatred throughout 
the  world  and  prevents  countries  from  achieving 
their potential. We also wish to stress the importance 
of  strengthening  national  capacities  through  fiscal 
15-29247
39/41
A/70/PV.10 
27/09/2015
regimes  that  prevent  tax  evasion  and  strengthen  and 
expand the tax base.
My country believes that we have to allocate funds 
to  implement  the  SDGs.  Furthermore,  monitoring 
that  implementation  will  require  up-to-date  digital 
databases.  There  is  a  need  to  bolster  the  capacities 
of  developing  States  in  the  field  of  statistics  by 
strengthening  their  statistical  bodies.  That  would 
enable them to gather the necessary data and all of the 
other necessary information. 
Iraq welcomes the commitments of friendly States 
and  donors,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  agencies, 
especially the specialized agencies working in the field 
of  humanitarian  emergencies  and  disasters,  by  which 
I  mean  mainly  the  refugee  crisis,  and,  of  course,  the 
attacks  by  Daesh,  which  have  emptied  our  cities  and 
adversely impacted the areas occupied by that terrorist 
organization. 
Our world faces a number of challenges. However, 
States will have to prevail, with the United Nations at 
the forefront, for it represents international legitimacy 
and protects all the peoples of the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia.
Mr.  Al-Jubeir  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
We meet today after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  That  post-
2015 development agenda is based on our experience in 
realizing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
and  on  a  positive  coalition  among  Governments, 
international  organizations  and  specialized  agencies 
aimed at fighting poverty and hunger.
My  country  has  made  every  possible  effort  in 
that  regard,  based  on  our  conviction  of  the  utmost 
importance  of  realizing  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  starting  from  2000  and  into  the  reign  of  His 
Majesty King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. We have 
devoted continuous efforts to realizing the development 
objectives  and  have  continually  increased  allocations 
for that purpose. We have been able to join the list of 
countries  that  have  registered  a  high  rate  of  progress 
and development, and we have become one of the top 
20 contributors to development in the world, according 
to United Nations statistics. 
It is extremely important to benefit from the lessons 
learned  in  the  work  for  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, which can assist us when we deploy our efforts 
in the post-2015 period for the Sustainable Development 
Goals, with their social, economic and environmental 
dimensions. It is important to note that the realization 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  will  remain 
extremely  difficult  for  people  under  occupation. 
Development  cannot  happen  under  occupation.  We 
should  therefore  reiterate  the  commitments  made  by 
the  international  community  in  past  conferences  and 
summits  regarding  sustainable  and  comprehensive 
development  and  the  need  to  remove  all  hurdles 
standing in the way of people living under occupation, 
particularly  in  Palestine  and  other  occupied  Arab 
territories.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, while participating 
in the Summit and associating itself with its objectives 
and  goals,  must  make  its  position  clear  on  certain 
paragraphs that may contradict, or run counter to, the 
tenets  of  Islamic  law.  The  mention  of  sex  in  the  text 
means to us exactly male and female. The mention of 
family means a family that consists of a married man 
and woman. Any deviations from those understandings 
would force us to emphasize our sovereign right not to 
adopt any rules that run counter to Islamic law. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  is  extremely 
important to us. We are committed to its realization for 
the good of the entire world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the Vice Prime Minister of the State of Israel.
Mr.  Shalom  (Israel):  The  book  of  Ecclesiastes 
in  the  Bible  says:  “One  generation  goes  and  another 
generation comes; but the Earth endures forever.” We 
are  gathered  here  today  to  ensure  that  generations  to 
come  will  inherit  the  promise  of  a  prosperous  planet 
and a sustainable world. 
the 
extraordinary 
Working 
partnership, 
achieved 
international 
in 
community  has 
things. 
However,  much  work  remains  to  be  done.  The  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
marks a new era of unprecedented global partnership. 
Today, we dedicate ourselves to combating the greatest 
global challenge, namely, the eradication of poverty in 
all its forms and dimensions.
I  have  witnessed  at  first  hand  how  determination 
and innovation can make the desert bloom and society 
flourish. As a child, I lived with my family in Beersheva, 
a dry and arid town in the middle of the Negev desert in 
40/41 
15-29247
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.10
Israel. Today, Beersheva — the city of Abraham, Isaac 
and  Jacob,  the  capital  of  the  Negev  —  is  a  thriving 
city, home to one of Israel’s leading universities and an 
emerging hub for sustainable technology.
It  is  hard  to  believe  that  from  swamplands  and 
sand dunes, Israel has become a source of innovation 
and creativity, known to many as the “start-up nation”. 
From energy and water to health and education, Israel 
has developed cutting-edge technologies that turn salt 
water  into  fresh  water,  convert  waste  into  renewable 
energy and detect preventable diseases with the touch 
of a button. 
In  Israel,  we  have  learned  to  make  every  drop  of 
water count. Israel is a world leader in water technology, 
home  to  one  of  biggest  desalination  facilities  in  the 
world.  We  reuse  87  per  cent  of  our  waste  water,  ten 
times more than most other countries. Drip irrigation 
was invented in Israel. We have exported that and other 
innovative technologies to dozens of countries around 
the globe.
For over 50 years, Israel’s Agency for International 
Development  Cooperation  has  deployed 
Israeli 
scientists, doctors, engineers and teachers all over the 
world in order to share their expertise. To date, Israel 
has  trained  over  a  quarter-million  professionals  from 
132 countries, helping them become agents of change 
in their own communities. Israel’s vision of sustainable 
development stems from the Jewish principle of “being 
a  light  unto  the  nations”,  which  is  well  known  in  the 
Bible.  It  is  the  moral  and  social  obligation  to  share 
our  knowledge  and  experience  with  others,  so  that 
no nation has to face the overwhelming challenges of 
development alone.
Albert  Einstein  once  said:  “All  that  is  valuable 
in  human  society  depends  upon  the  opportunity  for 
development  accorded  the  individual.”  As  we  move 
forward with our new Agenda, we must not lose sight 
of the individuals in our societies who have been denied 
an equal opportunity for development. Women and girls 
constitute half of each of our societies, yet around the 
world they continue to face deep inequalities in every 
area of life. We must create a new reality, one in which 
women  and  girls  can  participate  on  an  equal  footing 
with  men  and  boys  in  their  economies,  communities 
and  families.  Israel  strongly  believes  that  sustainable 
development  and  the  eradication  of  poverty  cannot 
be  achieved  without  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment.
Youth is also one of Israel’s top priorities. People 
under  the  age  of  thirty  account  for  more  than  half  of 
the  world’s  population,  and  most  of  them  live  in  the 
developing world. As we implement our new Agenda, 
we must find ways to harness their talent and energy so 
that they can become the masters of their own future. 
We need all hands on deck to address the challenges we 
face. We must give a voice to the unheard and shine a 
spotlight on the unseen.
There  are  few  regions  of  the  world  that  can 
benefit  more  from  the  new  Agenda  than  the  Middle 
East.  However,  as  long  as  the  countries  of  the  region 
choose  to  invest  in  violence  instead  of  in  their  own 
people, there can be no hope for a better future. Israel’s 
success story highlights the link among development, 
free societies and prosperous nations. In contrast, the 
situation in neighbouring countries highlights just the 
opposite, namely, that the lack of development leads to 
war, poverty and oppression. Yesterday, the Palestinian 
Foreign Minister stood here before the Assembly (see 
A/70/PV.9) and blamed Israel for all of the ills of their 
society.  That  might  be  surprising  if  it  were  not  so 
predictable. After all, it is much easier to point fingers 
at others than to look at oneself in the mirror.
I look forward to the day when Palestinian leaders 
place  the  welfare  of  their  people  above  warfare  with 
Israel, a day when they stop making false accusations 
and  start  making  a  real  effort  to  improve  the  lives  of 
their children and future generations. Only when that 
day  comes  will  they  be  able  to  realize  the  Goals  of 
the  new  Agenda  and  enjoy  the  fruits  of  sustainable 
development.  Israel  has  repeatedly  extended  its  hand 
in  kinship  and  cooperation.  Sadly,  our  hand  has  all 
too  often  been  rejected.  Today,  once  again,  from  this 
rostrum,  I  call  on  our  Arab  neighbours  to  forsake 
destruction and despair and walk together on the path 
of prosperity and peace.
Tonight,  the  Jewish  people  will  celebrate  the 
holiday of Sukkot. On Sukkot, families come together 
to  live  in  temporary  dwellings  in  order  to  remember 
the  40-year  journey  of  the  people  of  Israel  through 
the  desert  towards  the  Promised  Land.  As  we  begin 
our  own  journey  towards  the  promise  of  sustainable 
development, let us come together so that generations 
to  come  will  dwell  in  a  sustainable,  prosperous,  and 
peaceful world.
The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.
15-29247
41/41
