United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
11th plenary meeting
Sunday, 27 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.11
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly 
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
Co-Chair Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States 
of America.
Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of America, was escorted to the rostrum. 
Mr. Obama: Good afternoon. It is a great honour to 
be here to address the topic of sustainable development. 
In  many  of  our  nations,  especially  the  developed 
countries,  there  is  among  our  general  population  a 
genuine  compassion  towards  those  in  need.  There  is 
a  recognition  of  the  grinding  poverty  that  so  many 
experience  every  day  around  the  world.  And  yet 
sometimes it is said that our efforts to combat poverty 
and disease do not and cannot work, that there are some 
places beyond hope and that certain people and regions 
are condemned to an endless cycle of suffering. Here, 
today, we put those myths to rest. 
Today  we  set  aside  the  scepticism  and  lift  up  the 
hope  that  is  available  to  us  through  collective  action. 
Because the world came together in an unprecedented 
effort, the global hunger rate has already been slashed. 
Tens of millions more boys and girls are today in school. 
The prevention and treatment of measles, malaria and 
tuberculosis  have  saved  nearly  60  million  lives.  HIV/
AIDS  infections  and  deaths  have  plummeted.  And 
more  than  1  billion  people  have  lifted  themselves  up 
from extreme poverty— 1 billion! The entire world can 
take  enormous  pride  in  those  historic  achievements. 
Let the sceptics and cynics know: development works. 
Investing in public health works. We can break the cycle 
of poverty. People and nations can rise into prosperity.
Despite the cruelties of our world and the ravages of 
disease, millions of lives can be saved if we are focused 
and  if  we  work  together.  Cynicism  is  our  enemy.  A 
belief  in  the  capacity  and  dignity  of  every  individual 
and  recognition  that  each  of  us  can  play  a  small  part 
in lifting up people all around the world — that is the 
message  that  we  are  sending  here  today.  Because  of 
the work of so many who are assembled here today, we 
can  point  to  past  success;  yet  we  are  also  here  today 
because we understand that our work is nowhere near 
done. We can take pride in what we have accomplished, 
but we cannot be complacent.
When  11  boys  and  girls  die  every  single  minute 
from preventable causes, we know we have more work 
to do. When hundreds of women die every single day 
just from having a baby, we know we have more work 
to do. When tens of millions of children are still not in 
school,  when  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  have  no 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29253 (E)
*1529253*
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
clean water and no toilets, we have so much more to do. 
Right now, some 800 million men, women and children 
are scraping by on less than $1.25 a day. Imagine that. 
Gripped  by  the  ache  of  an  empty  stomach,  billions 
of our fellow human beings are at risk of dying from 
diseases that we know how to prevent. Many children 
are just one mosquito bite away from death. That is a 
moral outrage and a profound injustice. It is literally a 
matter of life and death, and now the world must act. 
We cannot leave people behind. 
And  so  today  we  commit  ourselves  to  new 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (resolution  70/1), 
including  our  goal  of  ending  extreme  poverty  in  our 
world. We do so understanding how difficult the task 
may be. We suffer no illusions of the challenges ahead, 
but  we  understand  that  this  is  something  we  must 
commit ourselves to, because in doing so we recognize 
that  our  most  basic  bond,  our  common  humanity, 
compels us to act. An impoverished child in a distant 
slum  or  in  a  neighbourhood  not  that  far  from  here  is 
just as equal, just as worthy, as any of our children, as 
any of us, as any Head of Government or leader in this 
great Hall. 
We  reaffirm  that  supporting  development  is  not 
charity, but is instead one of the smartest investments 
we can make in our own future. After all, it is the lack 
of development, when people have no education and no 
jobs and no hope, when they feel that their basic human 
dignity  is  being  violated,  that  helps  to  fuel  so  much 
of  the  tension,  the  conflict  and  the  instability  in  our 
world. I profoundly believe that many of the conflicts, 
the  refugee  crises  and  the  military  interventions  over 
the years might have been avoided if nations had truly 
invested in the lives of their people and if the wealthiest 
nations on Earth were better partners in working with 
those who are trying to lift themselves up.
As one of the founders of the United Nations, Ralph 
Bunche, once said,
“Peace  is  no  mere  matter  of  men  fighting  or  not 
fighting.  Peace,  to  have  meaning  …  must  be 
translated  into  bread  or  rice,  shelter,  health  and 
education.”
I am here to say that in that work, the United States will 
continue to be the partner of the United Nations. Five 
years ago, I pledged here (see A/65/PV.11) that America 
would  remain  the  global  leader  in  development,  and 
the  United  States  Government  has  in  fact  remained 
the  single  largest  donor  of  development  assistance, 
including  in  global  health.  In  times  of  crisis,  from 
Ebola  to  Syria,  we  have  been  the  largest  provider  of 
humanitarian  aid.  In  times  of  disaster  and  crisis,  the 
world can count on the friendship and generosity of the 
American people.
The question before us, though, as an international 
community, is how do we meet the new goals that we 
have set today. How can we do our work better? How 
can  we  stretch  our  resources  and  our  funding  more 
effectively? How can donor countries be smarter, and 
recipient  countries  do  more  with  what  they  receive? 
We  have  to  learn  from  the  past,  to  see  where  we 
succeeded,  so  that  we  can  duplicate  that  success  and 
understand  where  we  have  fallen  short  and  correct 
those shortcomings. We start by understanding that the 
next  chapter  of  development  cannot  fall  victim  to  the 
old divides between developed nations and developing 
ones. Poverty and growing inequality exist in all of our 
nations,  and  all  of  our  nations  have  work  to  do.  That 
includes us here in the United States. That is why, in 
the wake of a terrible recession, my Administration has 
worked  to  keep  millions  of  families  from  falling  into 
poverty. That is why we have brought quality, affordable 
health  care  to  more  than  17  million  Americans.  Here 
in this country, the wealthiest nation on Earth, we are 
still working every day to perfect our union, to be more 
equal  and  more  just,  and  to  treat  the  most  vulnerable 
members of our society with value and concern.
That  is  why  today  I  am  committing  the  United 
States to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. 
As  long  as  I  am  President,  and  well  after  I  am  done 
being President, I will keep fighting for the education, 
housing, health care and jobs that reduce inequality and 
create opportunity here in the United States and around 
the world, because that is not just the job of politicians; 
it is work for all of us.
The  next  chapter  of  development  cannot  just 
be  about  what  Governments  spend.  We  have  to  get 
to  work  to  harness  the  unprecedented  resources  of 
our  interconnected  world.  In  just  a  few  short  years, 
in  the  areas  of  health,  food  security  and  energy,  my 
Administration has committed and helped to mobilize 
more  than  $100  billion  to  promote  development  and 
save  lives.  Guided  by  the  new  consensus  we  reached 
in Addis Ababa, I am calling on others to join us. More 
Governments, more institutions, more businesses, more 
philanthropies, more non-governmental organizations, 
more faith communities, more citizens — all of us must 
step  up  with  the  will  and  resources  and  coordination 
2/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
we need to achieve our goals. This must be the work of 
the world.
met young people on every continent, and they can lead 
the way if we give them the tools they need.
At the same time, the next chapter of development 
must focus not simply on the dollars we spend, but on 
the results we achieve. That demands new technologies 
and  approaches,  accountability,  data  and  behavioural 
science — an understanding that there are lessons that 
we  have  learned  and  best  practices  for  how  people 
actually  live,  so  that  we  can  dramatically  improve 
outcomes. It means breaking cycles of dependence by 
helping  people  become  more  self-sufficient:  not  just 
giving people fish, but teaching them how to fish. That 
is the purpose of development.
Rather 
than 
just 
food 
sending 
during 
famine  —  although  we  have  to  do  that  to  avert 
starvation  —  we  also  have  to  bring  new  techniques, 
seeds  and  technologies  to  more  farmers,  so  that  they 
can  boost  their  yields  and  increase  their  incomes, 
feed  more  people  and  lift  countless  millions  out  of 
poverty. Rather than just responding to outbreaks like 
Ebola  —  although  we  have  to  do  that,  and  we  have 
done so — let us also strengthen public-health systems 
and  advance  global  health  security,  so  as  to  prevent 
epidemics  in  the  first  place.  As  more  countries  take 
ownership of their HIV/AIDS programmes, the United 
States is setting two bold new goals. Over the next two 
years, we will increase the number of people that our 
funding reaches, so that nearly 13 million people with 
HIV/AIDS can get lifesaving treatment. We will invest 
$300  million  to  help  achieve  a  40  per  cent  reduction 
in new HIV infections among young women and girls 
in  the  hardest-hit  areas  of  sub-Saharan  Africa.  And  I 
believe we can do that in order to produce a first AIDS-
free generation.
The next chapter of development must also unleash 
economic  growth,  not  just  for  a  few  at  the  top,  but 
inclusive, sustainable growth that lifts up the fortunes 
of the many. We know the ingredients for creating jobs 
and opportunity. They are not a secret. Let us embrace 
reforms that attract trade and investment to areas that 
are in need of investment and trade. Let us trade and 
build  more  together,  making  it  easier  for  developing 
countries to sell more of their goods around the world. 
Let us invest in our greatest resource, our people, and 
their education and skills. Let us invest in innovative 
entrepreneurs, the striving young people who embrace 
new  technology  and  are  starting  businesses;  they  can 
ignite new industries that will change the world. I have 
Our  new  development  goals  are  ambitious.  But 
thanks  to  the  good  work  of  many  of  the  people  in 
this  Hall,  they  are  achievable  if  we  work  together 
and  meet  our  responsibilities  to  each  other.  I  believe 
that.  The  progress  of  recent  years  gives  us  hope.  We 
know what works. We know how to do this. But these 
days — perhaps because this is now my seventh year 
of  addressing  the  General  Assembly  —  I  tend  to  be 
more blunt. Along with the increasingly gray hair, I am 
becoming more likely to speak my mind. I would like to 
be indulged when I say that we will never achieve our 
goals if we do not squarely confront several insidious 
threats to the dignity and well-being of people around 
the  world.  No  matter  how  much  hard  work  is  done 
by  development  agencies,  no  matter  how  large  the 
donations and commitments made by donor countries, 
if we do not take care of some of the other elements of 
development, we will not meet the goals that we have 
set.
Number  one,  development  is  threatened  by  bad 
governance. Today, we affirm what we know to be true 
from decades of experience: development and economic 
growth that are truly sustainable and inclusive depend 
on Governments and institutions that care about their 
people, that are accountable and respect human rights 
and  deliver  justice  for  everybody,  not  just  for  some. 
In  the  face  of  the  corruption  that  siphons  billions 
away  from  schools,  hospitals  and  infrastructure  into 
foreign  bank  accounts,  Governments  must  embrace 
transparency, openness and the rule of law. Combating 
illicit finance must be a global effort, because it is part 
of  our  development  effort.  Citizens  and  civil  society 
groups  must  be  free  to  organize,  speak  their  minds 
and  work  for  progress,  because  that  is  how  countries 
develop; that is how countries succeed.
Development is also threatened by inequality. That 
is a political debate that we are having in this country. 
I  therefore  want  to  be  clear  that  it  is  not  something 
to which the United States is immune. Every country 
has  to  grapple  with  that  issue.  The  wealthiest  and 
most powerful in our societies oftentimes like to keep 
things as they are, and they often have disproportionate 
political  influence.  Inequality  is  when  poor  children 
are  more  likely  to  get  sick  and  die  than  children  in 
wealthier  neighbourhoods,  just  across  town;  when 
rural families are more likely to go without clean water; 
when  ethnic  and  religious  minorities,  people  with 
15-29253
3/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
disabilities or people of different sexual orientations are 
discriminated against or are unable to access education 
and  opportunity.  Inequality  holds  all  of  us  back. 
Therefore,  in  all  of  our  countries,  we  have  to  invest 
in  interventions  that  allow  us  to  reach  more  people, 
because  no  one  should  be  left  behind  just  because  of 
where they live or what they look like.
is 
Development 
threatened  by  old  attitudes, 
especially  those  that  deny  rights  and  opportunity  to 
women. In too many places, girls are less likely to be 
in  school  than  boys.  Globally,  women  are  less  likely 
to have a job than men and are more likely to live in 
poverty. I have said that before and I will keep repeating 
it: one of the best indicators of whether a country will 
succeed is how it treats its women. When women have 
an education and when women have jobs, their children 
are more likely to get an education and their families 
are healthier and more prosperous. Their communities 
and countries do better, as well. Every nation, all of our 
nations, must invest in the education, health and skills 
of our women and girls.
I  have  to  say  that  I  do  not  have  patience  for  the 
excuse: “Well, we have our own ways of doing things”. 
I — we — understand that there is a long tradition in 
every  society  of  discriminating  against  women.  But 
that is not an excuse for not taking a new path aimed at 
making sure that everyone in a society has opportunity.
Development is threatened if we do not recognize 
the  incredible  dynamism  and  opportunity  of  today’s 
Africa. Hundreds of millions of Africans still struggle 
in  the  face  of  grinding  poverty,  deadly  disease  and 
daily  assaults  on  their  lives  and  dignity.  However,  I 
visited Africa recently, and what I saw gave me hope 
and should, I know, give everyone here hope, because 
that continent has made impressive gains in health and 
education. It is one of the fastest-growing regions of the 
world, with a rising middle class.
During  my  travels,  Africans,  especially  young 
Africans, told me they did not want just aid, they want 
trade.  They  want  businesses.  They  want  investment. 
I  call  on  the  world  to  join  us  as  we  mobilize  billions 
of  dollars  in  new  trade,  investment  and  development 
in  Africa.  That  includes  Power  Africa,  our  initiative 
aimed  at  bringing  electricity  and  greater  opportunity 
to more than 60 million African homes and businesses. 
If  we  get  Africa  to  fulfil  its  full  potential,  that  will 
help the entire global economy. Everyone here will be 
helped. It is not a zero-sum game. We are invested in 
their success.
Development is also threatened by war. That should 
be a simple proposition, but it bears repeating. It is no 
coincidence  that  half  of  the  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty  around  the  world  live  in  places  afflicted  by 
chronic violence and conflict. Today, some 60 million 
men, women and children have been forced from their 
homes,  many  by  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East  and  in 
Africa.  Those  are  humanitarian  crises  and  refugees 
that we cannot ignore, and we have to deliver the urgent 
aid that is needed right now. Those countries that can 
must  do  more  to  accommodate  refugees,  recognizing 
that  those  children  are  just  like  ours.  But  our  efforts 
must  be  matched  by  the  hard  work  of  diplomacy  and 
reconciliation  to  end  conflicts  that  so  often  tear 
societies apart. As I said earlier, war and conflict are 
more  likely  to  arise  where  we  have  bad  governance, 
high  inequality,  discrimination  against  minority  and 
ethnic groups, and low educational levels. Those things 
are all related.
Finally,  development  is  threatened  by  climate 
change. I want to thank the Secretary-General for the 
extraordinary leadership and work that he has done on 
that  issue.  All  of  our  countries  will  be  affected  by  a 
changing climate. But the world’s poorest people will 
bear the heaviest burden — from rising seas and more 
intense droughts to shortages of water and food. We will 
be  seeing  climate-change  refugees.  As  His  Holiness 
Pope Francis has rightly implored the world, the issue 
represents a moral calling.
In  just  two  months,  the  world  will  have  an 
opportunity  to  unite  around  a  strong  global  climate 
agreement,  for  which  we  are  going  to  be  converging 
in Paris. With President Hollande’s leadership and the 
leadership of every world leader, we need to establish 
the  tools  and  financing  to  help  developing  nations 
embrace  clean  energy,  adapt  to  climate  change  and 
protect  themselves  against  the  false  choice  between 
economic development and the best practices that can 
save our planet. We can take joint action and at the same 
time. The communities and lives of billions of people 
depend on the work that we do.
Future generations of young people, watching today 
and tomorrow, will judge us, based on the choices that 
we  will  make  in  the  months  and  years  ahead.  One  of 
those young people is Eva Tolage. Eva lives in a village 
in Tanzania. She is 15 years of age, and she wrote me 
4/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
a letter. Some of those here today know that I read 10 
letters a day, mostly from inside the United States, but 
sometimes from around the world. I actually get 40,000 
a day, but I read 10.
Eva  told  me  about  her  parents,  farmers  who  are 
struggling  to  provide  for  their  seven  children.  This 
young, 15-year-old girl — a girl of the same age as my 
daughters — dreams of going to college, but, with little 
food to eat, she explained, it is hard for her sometimes 
to concentrate in school. She explained that her house 
does not have electricity, so it is hard for her to study 
at night.
That  is  not  because  her  parents  do  not  love  her 
and  do  not  have  ambitions  for  her.  Her  father  works 
incredibly  hard  in  the  fields  in  order  to  pay  for  her 
education. But they just need a little help. “I will not let 
him down. I will do whatever it takes”, she wrote in her 
letter. And then, knowing that we would be gathered at 
this Summit to help lift up families like hers, she asked 
me a question that could be asked of all of our nations: 
What will they commit to doing? What will they do?
There are billions of boys and girls just like Eva. 
They  are  just  like  our  children.  They  have  as  much 
talent  and  as  much  hope  for  the  future.  And  they’re 
willing to work hard, and their parents love them just 
as much as we love ours. Just by the accident of birth, 
it  is  so  much  more  difficult  for  them  to  achieve  their 
dreams as it is for our children. But in the eyes of God, 
they are the same children. They are just as important.
For Eva and all those just trying to survive another 
day under conditions that many of us can barely imagine, 
it can sometimes seem as if the world is blind to their 
struggles and their dreams. Today, I say to Eva and the 
hundreds  of  millions,  billions,  like  her:  “We  see  you. 
We hear you.” We have read their letters. We commit 
ourselves as nations, as one world, to the urgent work 
that must be done, to standing with families like Eva’s 
as they work and strive for a better life, to ending the 
injustice of extreme poverty, to upholding the inherent 
dignity  of  every  human  being,  whatever  it  takes.  We 
cannot  let  them  down.  With  the  Assembly’s  help,  we 
will not.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  I  thank  the  President  of 
the United States of America for his statement, strong 
commitment and leadership.
Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of America, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Paraguay.
Mr. Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara, President of the 
Republic of Paraguay, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Cartes  Jara 
in  Spanish): 
The  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
(resolution  70/1)  represents 
the  beginning  of  an 
ambitious road map for countries in their fight against 
poverty, with the aim of improving the quality of life 
of  their  inhabitants,  particularly  those  who  live  in 
vulnerable situations.
(spoke 
One of our Government’s public-policy priorities has 
been the fight against poverty. We have made progress 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, 
which  were  adopted  in  2000.  Since  the  adoption  of 
those  international  commitments,  we  have  managed, 
with  effort  and  perseverance,  to  reduce  by  more  than 
50 per cent the proportion of the population living in 
extreme  poverty.  However,  we  will  continue  to  push 
forward and focus our efforts on rural areas where the 
differences are even greater.
Our main goal as a Government is to ensure food 
security  for  our  population  in  order  to  completely 
eradicate  malnutrition.  Paraguay  has  taken  decisive 
steps  to  guarantee  nutritional  requirements,  relying 
on  family  agriculture,  and  to  increase  the  necessary 
nutrition that girls and boys receive in order to ensure 
excellent school performance and a healthy life. In that 
respect, we have become one of the leading countries 
in  the  region,  according  to  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO).  With  the 
adoption of a recent law on school nutrition and sanitary 
control, we have effected significant changes in public 
policies, such as the establishment of nutrition-oriented 
benefits and the promotion of family agriculture through 
simplified procurement. The total State investment in 
the  school  food  programme  has  risen  to  $95  million, 
providing  breakfasts  and  afternoon  snacks  to  90  per 
cent of the student body and school lunches to 15 per 
cent. We are creating new awareness in our population, 
mainly  among  children.  An  example  of  that  is  the 
drawing by a young eighth-grade student, Lucas Javier 
Armua, that I am sharing with the Assembly; Lucas was 
the Paraguayan winner of the regional contest “Feeding 
the world and caring for the Earth”, organized by FAO.
We  are  aware  that  there  is  a  direct  link  between 
education  and  development.  In  that  context,  we  have 
achieved  the  universalization  and  consolidation  of 
15-29253
5/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
primary-school  education,  and  our  country  will  soon 
achieve the goal of 100 per cent full coverage. In 2014, 
youth  literacy  rates  were  already  above  98  per  cent, 
and in that sense, we are just one step from universal 
literacy, with equity for gender, area of residence and 
economic  condition.  Significant  progress  can  also  be 
observed  in  the  school  enrolment  and  the  reduction 
in the gender gap. In that connection, I would like to 
point out the increase in women’s participation from 8 
to 17 per cent in the national leadership within the past 
15 years.
With  regard 
to  under-5  child  mortality,  by 
maintaining the downward trend in recent periods, we 
will achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. By the 
end of 2013, assisted birth deliveries in health service 
centres  increased  to  96.2  per  cent  on  average  at  the 
country level. Since June 2014, our Government, with 
the support of UNICEF, has been carrying out a project 
for  zero  preventable  deaths.  In  that  context,  maternal 
deaths  were  reduced  by  33.6  per  cent,  and  neonatal 
deaths  were  reduced  to  2  per  cent  in  the  first  year  of 
our work through the ongoing training of public-health 
staff.
We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  Paraguay  has 
achieved  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  related 
to  access  to  systems  of  drinking  water  supply  and 
sanitation.
The  Paraguayan 
financial  system  has  been 
strengthened  in  recent  years  and  now  maintains 
adequate solvency and capitalization ratios. There has 
been a gradual increase in the access to credit for small 
farmers. The success of Paraguay’s monetary policies 
has  resulted  in  the  lowest  levels  of  inflation  in  Latin 
America.  That  factor,  among  others,  allows  Paraguay 
to  have  one  of  the  fastest  growing  gross  domestic 
products in the region. According to a 2014 Economic 
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
report, Paraguay ranks second among Latin American 
countries  in  terms  of  the  return  on  direct  foreign 
investment.
Meeting 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
has  contributed  to  the  improved  living  conditions 
enjoyed  by  the  inhabitants  of  our  country  and  our 
future  generations.  We  know  that  we  still  have  much 
to do, but it is good to see that we are heading in the 
right  direction.  Today,  our  Government  would  like 
to  affirm  our  commitment  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  with  the 
primary objective of ensuring the welfare of the entire 
population.
Solidarity  and 
international  cooperation  are 
essential  if  all  nations  of  the  world  are  to  achieve 
harmonious,  peaceful,  respectful,  fair  and  inclusive 
coexistence. We know that the Sustainable Development 
Goals, adopted at this Summit, are ambitious and pose 
a  challenge  to  the  international  community.  But  if 
we  achieve  adequate  consensus  at  the  international, 
regional  and  national  political  levels,  the  Goals  are 
fully achievable. The implementation and permanence 
of public policies, as well as the allocation of sufficient 
resources in a rational and timely manner, are essential. 
In that context, we must work to achieve an effective 
investment of public funds by establishing transparent 
implementation and accountability mechanisms.
We must not ignore the fervent cry of our Mother 
Earth to preserve the environment. Climate change is a 
global issue and a central challenge to all Governments 
and inhabitants of the world.
The Republic of Paraguay welcomes the holding of 
this Sustainable Development Summit, which coincides 
with the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations. 
One  of  the  key  points  in  the  2030  Agenda  deals  with 
the case of countries confronting special conditions. In 
that regard, the international community has pledged to 
take concrete actions to overcome the obstacles facing 
land-locked developing countries. The Agenda will be 
transformative for those countries to the extent that their 
specific  needs  and  challenges  are  incorporated  into 
the  programmes  of  work  of  the  relevant  international 
organizations, international financial institutions and, 
not  least,  those  of  the  transit  countries.  We  are  also 
convinced  that  new  possibilities  can  emerge  from  the 
difficulties we are facing — particularly in the areas of 
infrastructure, logistics and integration. It also pleases 
me  to  mention  that  at  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Organization of American States, held in my country in 
2014,  members  approved  the  Asunción  declaration  on 
development  with  social  inclusion,  which  is  currently 
being implemented.
The  Government  of  Paraguay 
implementing 
is  committed 
to 
the  new  post-2015  Sustainable 
Development  Agenda  and  will  comply  with 
its 
procedures for monitoring and review at the national, 
regional  and  global  levels,  which  will  help  it  to  be 
inclusive,  transparent,  rigorous  and  based  on  reliable 
and  timely  information.  It  is  in  times  of  great 
6/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
challenges that we need to embrace more than ever our 
fundamental values and principles and never forget that 
the raison d’être of Governments must be the dignity of 
the people, enshrining their well-belling as the ultimate 
goal of all of our efforts. In that process, we honour our 
people and pave the way for generations to come.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Paraguay for his statement.
in  French):  What 
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the French Republic.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Hollande  (spoke 
the 
international  community  has  done  today  in  adopting 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  A/70/1)  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most 
decisive acts in the history of the United Nations, for 
we have made a commitment to future generations to 
set the fight against poverty, human development and 
protecting  the  planet  as  our  one  indivisible  goal.  The 
road to the adoption of the new Agenda has been a long 
one.  Twenty-eight  years  ago,  the  World  Commission 
on  Environment  and  Development  entrusted  Ms.  Gro 
Harlem  Brundtland  with  the  preparation  of  a  report 
entitled “Our Common Future”, and with it, sustainable 
development  first  became  an  issue.  Five  years  later, 
we held the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development in Rio de Janeiro, which proclaimed the 
commitments that the world was supposed to undertake 
but that, unfortunately, were not, for too long, backed 
up by actions.
together,  here  and  now, 
It  has  therefore  taken  28  years  for  us  to  finally 
adopt 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. It has taken 28 years for this notion 
of  sustainable  development  to  take  shape  in  the  form 
of  a  concrete  and  universal  road  map,  with  goals  and 
targets. It has taken 28 years of perseverance to end the 
divisions that sometimes arise among us, to overcome 
our  lack  of  foresight  and  our  narrow  self-interest  and 
to  ensure  that  as  193  nations,  we —  from  all  corners 
of the Earth — can arrive at consensus on these Goals. 
I would like to commend not only the United Nations, 
but  also  the  States,  the  Governments  and,  especially, 
the  non-governmental  organizations  and  civil-society 
organizations  that  contributed  to  that  awakening. 
They exerted the necessary pressure in order for us to 
reach  this  point.  Instead  of  furnishing  proclamations, 
declarations  and  mantras,  they  have  provided  us  with 
Goals contained within an Agenda and a road map.
What  is  at  stake  is  the  fight  against  inequalities 
on  a  global  scale.  In  2015,  1  billion  human  beings 
continue  to  live  on  less  than  $1  a  day.  In  the  world, 
one in nine people suffer from hunger, and 250 million 
children — undoubtedly even more than that — do not 
know how to read or write. Entire regions are suffering 
not only from the effects of desertification but also from 
disease,  which  has  led  to  an  ever-increasing  number 
of  refugees,  and  that  at  a  time  when  we  are  already 
talking  a  great  deal  about  refugees,  because  of  their 
great number coming from the Middle East or Africa 
and entering into Europe.
I  would  like  to  recall  today  what  for  many 
representatives 
is  self-evident:  80  per  cent  of 
refugees  —  whether  they  are  refugees  because  of 
climate  change,  war  or  hunger  —  are  being  received 
in  the  countries  of  the  South.  The  South  is  showing 
its solidarity with the South. Frequently, the countries 
with  the  fewest  resources  are  the  ones  who  are 
accommodating the poorest refugees. That is the reason 
that we have to act, why we have to decide. The adoption 
of the Sustainable Development Goals is not simply a 
question of wanting to live better; for many, those who 
are  affected  by  poverty  or  climate  change,  the  stakes 
are  higher:  life  or  death.  What  we  have  decided  does 
not  concern  quality  of  life  issues  but  life  itself.  That 
is why the 2030 Agenda is a monumental response to 
what is for us ultimately the main issue at stake for the 
cohesion of our planet. We have chosen 17 Goals, but 
there are three indivisible priorities. The first priority 
concerns  the  protection  of  the  climate,  which  will  be 
the  central  theme  at  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  in 
Paris that France has undertaken the responsibility of 
hosting.
I  had  lunch  with  the  main  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  largest  continents.  We  wanted  to 
determine  whether  or  not  an  agreement  on  climate 
change  was  possible.  There  was  no  Head  of  State  or 
Government who said that he was against an agreement. 
I could swiftly conclude, therefore, that we are sure to 
meet with success. That is not just my opinion alone. An 
agreement is always possible. The question being put to 
us is, what kind of agreement? How far-reaching should 
it be? How many commitments should it contain?
15-29253
7/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
In  Paris,  we  will  not  be  signing  a  text  simply 
because  we  were  not  able  to  do  so  in  Copenhagen  in 
2009. No, the text we sign in Paris will be one that we 
will honour for decades to come. It will be an agreement 
affecting all countries in various situations. It will be 
legally  binding  and  ensure  that  regularly  every  five 
years  we  will  be  able  to  evaluate  and  measure  what 
has or has not been achieved. The aim is to prevent the 
planet from heating up by more than 2°C by the end of 
the century. For many countries, if the planet warms by 
more than 2°C, it will not just be a target that has not 
been  achieved  or  a  Goal  that  has  been  missed.  No,  it 
will quite simply mean that the countries we refer to as 
small island developing States will disappear by the end 
of the century. For many other countries, it will mean 
that desertification and deforestation will continue, and 
their people will, as a result, not be able to live as they 
do today.
It is for that reason that, in Paris, we will need to 
make  commitments  through  contributions.  I  call  on 
all  countries  to  make  their  contributions,  so  that  we 
can bring together all of the commitments and ensure 
that there is an increase of only 2°C by the end of the 
century. We will need to ensure that a decision is taken 
on  establishing  a  carbon  tax  and  that  all  economic 
stakeholders adapt their behaviour and their investments 
in line with the tax. We will also need to address the 
issue  of  financing,  and  that  is  a  major  issue.  Are  we, 
as  developed  countries,  simply  feeling  remorse  about 
the way in which we have used our natural resources? 
Are  we  trying  to  ensure  that  developing  countries  do 
not suffer the same disastrous fate? Or rather, are we 
going to raise funding in order to allow some countries 
to skip a step, ensure their energy transition, adapt their 
technology  and  make  a  technological  leap  forward? 
That  would  help  them  achieve  more  growth  at  home 
and contribute fewer greenhouse gas emissions across 
the planet.
We  are  familiar  with  the  figures.  They  were 
established  in  Copenhagen  in  2009.  We  need  to 
find  $100  billion  a  year  to  ensure  that  the  necessary 
changes occur and that we set that goal as part of our 
development policy. I would urge each country to exert 
as much pressure as possible, so that, in Paris, and at 
the annual meetings of the World Bank Group and the 
International Monetary Fund in Lima next month, we 
can achieve the target of $100 billion to ensure energy 
transition and combat global warming. As we set that 
objective  as  a  priority,  it  must,  at  the  same  time,  be 
consistent  and  compatible  with  combatting  poverty. 
The fight  against  hunger, disease and  difficult access 
to water and natural resources is part of the same fight. 
The  funding  for  energy  transition  and  the  financing 
that we mobilize during the Paris Conference will also 
enable us to combat poverty and take action to promote 
growth and development.
I  also  know  that  we  will  have  to  take  specific 
actions  to  combat  AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis. 
France is ranked as the world’s second largest health-
care donor, of which it is very proud. During the Ebola 
outbreak, when Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea were 
affected by the disease, it was because of international 
action  and  humanitarian  organizations  that  we  were 
able  to  eliminate  that  scourge  and,  today,  we  can  be 
proud  of  and  commend  those  countries  that  made  the 
efforts  needed  to  make  that  a  reality.  Ebola  has  been 
vanquished  in  Sierra  Leone,  Liberia  and  Guinea.  We 
are therefore able to act and we must act.
The third fight for us is also linked to the previous 
ones.  We  do  not  just  want  to  live  on  a  planet  whose 
temperature  is  no  longer  rising.  We  do  not  just  want 
there to be fewer inequalities. We want human beings 
to  enjoy  their  rights.  We  want  women  to  be  able  to 
contribute  to  wealth  creation,  we  want  fundamental 
freedoms to be recognized, we want the fight against 
corruption to be undertaken and conflicts to be resolved.
All of those desires are outlined in the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  are  not  just  talking  about 
reducing  inequalities.  We  are  talking  about  living 
differently  in  this  world.  In  order  to  implement  those 
policies, I have already said that we will need resources. 
I  mentioned  the  financing  needed  to  combat  climate 
change,  but  just  because  we  are  going  to  do  more  in 
the  area  of  climate  financing  does  not  mean  that  we 
should  do  less  for  development  financing.  That,  too, 
is extremely important. At this session of the General 
Assembly, we reached an agreement on the Sustainable 
Development Goals. The Paris Conference on Climate 
Change will soon be held. They are both linked, one to 
another, but one does not replace the other. That is why 
we need to increase official development assistance.
Today, we will ask all those who accept the idea of 
the Sustainable Development Goals and the new Agenda 
to  increase  their  development  contributions.  France 
always wants to lead the way and set the example, even 
if that may be demanding at times. France will host the 
Conference on Climate Change, and it will also call for 
8/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
the highest of standards to be met. It is for that reason 
that  we  have  decided  to  earmark  €4  billion  more  for 
official development assistance from 2020 onwards.
I have also decided to carry out a far-reaching reform 
of our official development assistance programme with 
the  French  Development  Agency  and  the  Caisse  des 
Dépôts,  a  large  French  financial  institution.  We  will 
have the largest development bank in Europe, so that we 
can honour our commitments and not just quote figures 
that  are  never  respected.  We,  too,  in  France,  along 
with the other countries in the Eurozone, have sought 
to  establish  a  tax  on  financial  transactions.  That  tax 
should be introduced at the beginning of 2017. We will 
do our utmost to ensure that that occurs. A percentage of 
the tax will be earmarked for combatting inequalities, 
global  warming  and  large-scale  pandemics.  That  is  a 
commitment I am making before the Assembly today.
We  know  our  enemies.  They  are  known  as 
indifference,  carelessness  and  indolence.  They  can 
also be referred to as passive acceptance. There is the 
idea that there will always be a miracle solution; that 
the  international  community  will  always  come  to  an 
agrement; that there will be a piece of technology or an 
invention that will keep us from having to shoulder our 
responsibilities. No, it is going to be men and women 
who  decide  their  future  and  their  destiny.  Today, 
after 28 years, we have managed to agree to adopt the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  an  Agenda  for 
them. My duty, in December, is to ensure that we can all 
agree on how to combat climate change and guarantee 
life on our planet for years to come.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
French Republic for his statement.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of Costa Rica.
Mr.  Luis  Guillermo  Solís  Rivera,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
President  Solís  Rivera  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is 
with great enthusiasm that I have come to this historic 
Summit  to  adopt  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). I represent a nation that, 
for  many  years,  has  worked  tirelessly  to  achieve  the 
dream of becoming a sustainable society The goals that 
we  are  committing to  today  are grand  and ambitious, 
as they should be. We should dream big and aim high. 
I am convinced that the decisions we have taken today, 
and  others  that  we  will  take  in  the  future,  have  the 
potential to turn many of our dreams — the dreams of 
the Assembly — into realities. As we are on the cusp 
of implementing this Agenda, I would like to highlight 
some of the achievements as well as the challenges that 
still remain for us in Costa Rica.
The fight for equality in Costa Rica dates back to 
the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century.  That  dream 
began to become a reality in 1847, when girls and boys 
were assured the right of access to our free education 
system.  In  1950,  for  the  first  time,  women  exercised 
their right to vote in our country, and my predecessor, 
Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  became  the  first  female 
President  of  Costa  Rica.  Moreover,  only  a  few  weeks 
ago,  an  illustrious  former  Costa  Rican  Judge  of  the 
International Criminal Court, Ms. Elizabeth Odio, was 
elected to the presidency of the Inter-American Court of 
Human Rights. Currently, Costa Rica is leading efforts 
on behalf of those who believe the time has come for a 
woman to fill the position of Secretary-General.
With this Agenda, we reaffirm that the philosophy 
of  “Yes  we  can!”  and  commit  ourselves  to  providing 
equal access for women and girls to inclusive, equitable 
and quality education, economic resources and political 
participation and to the same opportunities as men with 
respect to employment, leadership and decision-making 
at every level. We are convinced that the shared social 
responsibility  of  men  and  women  constitutes  an 
essential step in empowering women.
Our  commitment  to  technology  also  dates  back 
to  the  nineteenth  century.  In  1884,  two  years  after 
electricity lit up New York City, San José, our capital, 
followed  suit.  In  1940,  the  Costa  Rican  Institute  of 
Electricity was founded, and since then it has developed 
a wide range of sources of renewable energy. Today, the 
same utility connects over 99 per cent of the national 
territory to the grid and ensures a dependable supply of 
electricity at competitive prices in the region.
For more than 200 days, with very few exceptions, 
Costa Rica has been generating all of its electric power 
without producing any hydrocarbons. In that regard, we 
have  realized  the  mantra  “Yes  we  can!”,  and  we  now 
renew  our  commitment  to  universal  access,  based  on 
principles  of  solidarity,  to  an  affordable,  reliable  and 
sustainable energy supply.
15-29253
9/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
Achieving sustainability is therefore not a rhetorical 
exercise  in  my  country,  nor  need  it  be  in  the  rest  of 
the world. In 2002, the first moratorium on oil drilling 
was  announced  in  Costa  Rica.  My  Government  has 
extended it to 2021.
Today,  we  are  also  taking  measures  to  renew  our 
commitment to becoming a carbon-neutral country by 
2021. We understand that sustainability covers a broad 
range  of  activities,  including  public  transportation, 
organic  and  sustainable  agriculture  and  ecotourism, 
which has been one of my country’s main achievements.
We  have  also  decided  that  “Yes,  we  can!”  will 
apply  to  one  of  the  biggest  challenges  of  the  2030 
Agenda,  which  is  ensuring  sustainable  consumption 
and production patterns.
We  say  “Yes  we  can!”  in  relation  to  promoting 
peaceful,  just  and  inclusive  societies,  free  from  fear 
and  violence.  The  2030  Agenda  clearly  states  in  its 
preamble:  “There  can  be  no  sustainable  development 
without  peace  and  no  peace  without  sustainable 
development”.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reflect 
on  how  we  will  implement  the  2030  Agenda.  We  in 
Costa  Rica,  as  we  have  said  here  many  times  before, 
believe  that  disarmament  is  a  mechanism  that  allows 
us  to  redirect  significant  resources  to  sustainable 
development.  Betting  on  disarmament  is  synonymous 
with  betting  on  peace  and  a  culture  of  peace  and 
non-violence.  The  equivalent  of  $1.776  trillion  was 
spent worldwide on military spending in 2014. The five 
permanent members of the Security Council are among 
the top six countries in terms of military spending, and 
they are the largest producers and exporters of weapons 
in the world. We call on them as brothers — but we also 
call on them categorically — to redirect that spending 
towards  sustainable  development.  I  assure  them  that 
there is no better way of ensuring the safety of their own 
countries than by ensuring the sustainable development 
of the whole world.
Costa  Rica  is  enthusiastically  preparing  for  the 
national  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  by 
incorporating it into our national planning at all levels. 
To fulfil the need for coordination, we are relying on the 
National  Council  on  Sustainable  Development,  which 
in its institutional management has a fluent relationship 
with public and private stakeholders. We have studied 
and learned from the experiences and best practices of 
other countries in this field.
Costa Rica is a middle-income country, as are many 
others represented here, and as such have realized that, 
despite our many advances in various strategic areas, we 
have not been able to move forward as fast as necessary 
or in all the areas that would ensure the well-being of 
our  entire  population.  I  reiterate  my  country’s  appeal 
for the Organization to make progress in establishing 
an  action  plan  for  cooperation  with  middle-income 
countries.  Over  70  per  cent  of  the  people  living  in 
poverty  in  the  world  live  in  what  are  inappropriately 
called  middle-income  countries  —  a  designation  that 
serves as an excuse for other States to stop cooperating 
with  them  —  where  the  challenge  of  inequality 
continues and poor income distribution is the first issue 
to  be  addressed.  We  therefore  call  for  better  internal 
coordination and the necessary institutional framework 
within the United Nations to support our efforts.
Costa  Rica  also  calls  for  the  development  of  an 
index  to  measure  the  multidimensional  nature  of 
poverty,  one  that  includes  criteria  beyond  per  capita 
income. The global challenge to end poverty in all its 
forms requires the proper instruments, and Costa Rica 
is committed to their design and implementation. The 
need for them was supported by various delegations a 
short while ago, in a high-level meeting organized by 
my country.
Those  proposals  for  means  of  implementation 
should  flow  from  the  agreements  already  reached  at 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development. They should be central pillars for future 
discussions and should serve in particular as the basis 
for  the  strong  commitments  on  climate  change  that  I 
hope we will make in Paris in December. I would like 
to  congratulate  President  François  Hollande  on  his 
leadership  in  that  process,  and  I  welcome  President 
Barack  Obama’s  decision  to  attend  in  Paris,  after 
bravely  launching  his  ambitious  clean  energy  plan  in 
August.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  arrive  at  a  major, 
rigorous  agreement  in  Paris  that  will  genuinely  force 
the  world  to  focus  its  efforts  once  and  for  all  on  the 
conservation  and  preservation  of  our  species.  That  is 
crucial and cannot be put off.
is  critical 
Costa  Rica  has  marked  out  a  pathway  in  which 
to  achieving  sustainable 
disarmament 
development. On 1 December 1948, the day the Costa 
Rican army was abolished, the founder of our Second 
Republic, José Figueres Ferrer, said,
10/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
“To the home of Washington, Lincoln, Bolívar 
and  Martí,  today  we  say:  Oh,  America,  other 
peoples, who are your children too, offer you their 
greatness. Little Costa Rica, now and forever, offers 
you its heart and its love of civility and democracy.”
Sixty-seven years later, as we mark the seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and 
make our commitment to the 2030 Agenda, little Costa 
Rica would now like, once again, to offer, this time to 
the whole world, its heart, its love and its commitment 
to democracy and freedom as a sustainable model that 
fosters solidarity, education, inclusivity, transparency, 
justice and peace.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of Costa 
Rica for his statement.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Mahama:  I  bring  the  Assembly  warm 
greetings from the good people of Ghana, undoubtedly 
the world’s friendliest country.
The  adoption  on  Friday  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  which 
includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), is 
a  major  re-dedication  of  the  world  to  its  commitment 
to fighting the growing inequality, wiping out extreme 
poverty and tackling the issues of climate change over 
the  next  15  years.  The  adoption  of  the  new  Goals  at 
a  moment  when  the  United  Nations  is  turning  70  can 
provide  some  hope  to  the  young  people  of  the  world 
that, after decades of existence, the Organization is still 
alive to the challenges of today.
What we have adopted and now refer to simply as the 
SDGs  is  perhaps  the  most  ambitious  transformational 
development  agenda  attempted  in  the  history  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  must  tackle  the  challenges 
identified in the 17 Goals as a matter of urgency, and we 
can also seize the opportunity offered by the adoption 
of  the  SDGs  to  tackle  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
In pursuing the SDGs, it is important that we define 
a  new  paradigm  of  development.  The  current  high 
consumption of the wasteful societies that we classify 
as developed cannot serve as the model for sustainable 
development. If the attractions of the big cities of the 
so-called  developed  world,  such  as  shopping  malls 
bursting at the seams with all kinds of consumer goods, 
glitzy neon lighting and fast food franchises, represent 
the  standard  for  classification  as  developed,  we  will 
need two more planets the size of our Earth to maintain 
and  sustain  the  human  race.  The  world’s  resources 
are  not  infinite.  If  we  are  to  attain  the  objective  of  a 
sustainable  consumption  and  production  pattern,  as 
provided for under Goal 12, we will have to review the 
relationship between labour, production and capital.
The  path  to  sustainable  development  for  Ghana 
and many other African countries has been a difficult 
one.  In  the  main,  we  are  still  producers  of  primary 
commodities, while secondary and tertiary processing 
is done in the developed world and finished goods are 
exported back to us. If the teeming youth of Africa are 
to find jobs at home and stop attempting the dangerous 
crossing  of  the  Mediterranean  to  enter  the  greener 
pastures of Europe, we must review the role that Africa 
plays  in  world  production.  A  significant  portion  of 
processing  and  value  addition  must  relocate  to  our 
continent.
I stand here at the United Nations and commit to 
the people of Ghana that I will continue to aggressively 
and  dynamically  implement  our  country’s  agenda  for 
transformation  within  the  framework  of  the  newly 
adopted  SDGs,  in  order  to  build  a  life  of  dignity 
that  ensures  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  Through  the 
implementation  of 
transformation 
developed  by  our  national  development  planning 
commission,  we  aim  to  diversify  production  and 
exports, be more competitive in international markets, 
increase  the  productivity  of  all  our  resource  inputs 
and  upgrade  technologies  so  as  to  make  our  much-
anticipated leap out of poverty.
the  agenda  for 
The African Union’s Agenda 2063 makes a strong 
case for integrating our economies on the continent so 
as to accelerate the pace of transformative change. In 
order to achieve that, we have to invest in our human 
capital  through  education  and  health  care,  accelerate 
infrastructure  development  so  as  to  link  the  African 
economies  and  address  inequalities,  while  building 
meaningful  relationships  with  the  private  sector.  A 
focus on Goals 2 and 7 of the SDGs will provide Africa 
with  the  impetus  needed  to  ensure  economic  growth 
and transformation.
15-29253
11/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
fertilizers, 
technology 
appropriate 
The  “green  revolution”  has  never  really  taken  off 
in Africa. And yet Africa has a significant proportion 
of the world’s remaining arable lands. With improved 
seeds, 
and 
agricultural extension advice, we can not only increase 
agricultural productivity in Africa, we can also provide 
jobs  for  the  growing  population  of  young  people  on 
the  continent.  That  would  also  fit  perfectly  with  the 
expansion of agricultural processing and agribusiness, 
in which Africa has a comparative advantage.
The  focus  on  access  to  sustainable  and  modern 
energy  in  Goal  7  emphasizes  the  situation  in  Africa 
today,  where  a  shortage  of  power  remains  a  binding 
constraint on our economic development. As an example, 
I  can  cite  Ghana,  where  two  decades  of  consistent 
positive economic growth have led to an average annual 
increase  in  the  demand  for  power  of  between  10  and 
12 per cent. As a result, the demand for electricity has 
exceeded the supply. To keep our system running, we 
have had to resort to implementing a load management 
system.  Ghanaians,  with  their  sense  of  humour,  refer 
to it as dumso, which in our local language means “off 
and on”. We have put in place a programme to introduce 
emergency  generation  into  the  transmission  system, 
but  we  are  mindful  that  we  must  ensure  that  we  use 
as many clean energy sources as possible if we are to 
benefit current and future generations.
The MDGs have been helpful for us. Over the past 
15  years  they  have  helped  us  address  socioeconomic 
inequalities  and  disparities  in  national,  regional  and 
global development. Since September 2000, the MDGs 
have  always  been  a  core  part  of  Ghana’s  national 
development  framework.  That  has  helped  us  make 
modest but significant progress in the achievement of 
those  Goals.  Ghana  is,  therefore,  well  positioned  and 
poised to pursue the SDGs in the post-2015 development 
era.
As  one  of  Africa’s  fastest  growing  economies, 
Ghana’s  rise  to  middle-income  status  has  presented 
us  with  both  opportunities  and  daunting  challenges. 
With the inspiration and guidance of the SDGs, we are 
confident  of  our  ability  to  surmount  those  trials.  We 
have  a  vision  and  a  development  agenda  for  the  next 
15 years and, on behalf of the Government and people 
of Ghana, I pledge our support and commitment to work 
towards the achievement of the SDGs and look forward 
to working with other regional and global partners to 
make them a reality.
Our world is well endowed with resources and can 
ensure that every man, woman, child, and every person 
with  a  disability  or  aged  person,  can  live  a  happy, 
fulfilled and secure life of hope and promise and not one 
of poverty and disillusionment. The time for collective 
action  for  the  progress  we  all  yearn  for  is  now.  The 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
will transform our world. And Ghana is committed to 
their implementation.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  President  of 
Ghana for his statement.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  Mexican 
States.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican States, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Peña  Nieto (spoke  in  Spanish): What 
better way to celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the 
Organization of the United Nations than by renewing the 
hope of a future of opportunities for all of the countries 
of  the  world?  Mexico  celebrates  the  adoption  of  the 
2030  Sustainable  Development  Agenda  (resolution 
70/1),  a  historic  agreement  for  humanity  in  support 
of  social  inclusion,  shared  prosperity,  environmental 
protection,  respect  for  human  rights  and  universal 
peace. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 
targets of the Agenda reflect the will and commitment 
of nations to address the complex social, economic and 
environmental challenges of our time.
It is clear that there are no easy solutions or shortcuts 
for solving the problems of humanity. The positive and 
lasting changes that are so vital for our present world 
can be achieved only with responsibility, perseverance 
and  shared  work.  That  is  precisely  the  essence  of  the 
2030  Agenda,  namely,  to  constitute  a  serious,  far-
reaching global alliance based on the values and hopes 
that gave rise to the Organization of the United Nations. 
This transcendent document is the fruit of an inclusive, 
constructive  and  transparent  dialogue  that  gives  new 
life to multilateralism as a transformative force for our 
civilization.
It  has  been  a  great  honour  for  Mexico  to  take 
part  in  the  consultative  forums  and,  of  course,  in  the 
final  negotiation  on  the  new  Agenda.  With  pride  and 
satisfaction,  my  country  commends  the  inclusion 
12/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
in  Agenda  2030  of  a  number  of  proposals  that  we 
put  forward:  first,  the  establishment  of  social  and 
economic  inclusion  as  the  guiding  principle  for  the 
new  Sustainable  Development  Goals;  secondly,  the 
adoption  of  a  broader  definition  of  poverty,  based  on 
a multidimensional focus that, in addition to counting 
individual  incomes,  also  takes  into  account  people’s 
effective  access  to  fundamental  rights  such  as  food, 
education,  health,  social  security  and  basic  housing 
services;  thirdly,  the  consideration  of  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment  as  cross-cutting  factors 
for development; fourthly, the recognition of the rights 
of  migrants  and  their  positive  contribution  to  the 
development of their countries, both their countries of 
origin  and  their  countries  of  destination;  and  fifthly, 
the inclusion of the preservation of biodiversity and the 
adoption  of  national  commitments  to  address  climate 
change as key instruments for sustainable development. 
In keeping with that responsibility, Mexico will host, in 
2016, the Conference of the Parties to the Convention 
on  Biological  Diversity.  Sixthly,  the  rule  of  law  must 
be  recognized  as  an  indispensable  requirement  for 
development.
From  this  point  on,  with  respect  to  the  definition 
of  the  2030  Agenda,  it  is  up  to  individual  countries 
to  implement  the  public  policies  that  will  allow 
them  to  fulfil  their  Goals  and  targets.  In  that  regard, 
Mexico  urges  all  countries  to  take  ownership  of  the 
principles that characterize the new paradigm of open 
government. That, indeed, is what we will propose in 
the Open Government Summit, which will take place 
in my country a month from now.
The  international  community  has  succeeded  in 
agreeing  on  Agenda  2030.  The  challenge  now  is  to 
achieve  its  effective  implementation.  Although  the 
Agenda  itself  is  universal,  its  full  implementation 
depends on national strategies. With that understanding, 
Mexico  regards  Agenda  2030  as  a  State  commitment 
and as a collective mission. By joining our efforts, will 
and resources, we will meet its Goals and targets and 
be able to positively transform the lives of millions of 
Mexicans, and by so doing, we will also contribute to 
universal development.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  President  of 
Mexico for his statement.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican States, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of Lithuania, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Grybauskaitė: The year 2015 is a crucial 
one for sustainable development. We are very satisfied 
with  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  negotiations  on 
the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  which  is  a  transformative  and,  most 
importantly, a people-centred document. I hope it will 
make  a  lasting  impact  on  our  future.  The  effective 
implementation of that ambitious Agenda is of central 
importance. Let me highlight several key issues that are 
essential for achieving our goals.
First of all, we must focus on ensuring peace and 
security.  Without  peace,  we  will  not  be  able  to  build 
resilient  societies,  eradicate  the  causes  of  poverty  or 
meet the expectations of the international community.
Secondly, 
the  essential  building  block  of  a 
prosperous society is democracy. The lack of democracy 
is  the  main  reason  for  conflicts,  social  and  military 
upheavals,  economic  hardship  and  other  problems. 
Today,  the  continuous  threat  to  the  development  of 
our Eastern European partners, in particular Ukraine, 
worries us. The support of the international community, 
voiced  by  the  United  Nations,  is  needed  by  those 
calling for freedom and self-determination worldwide. 
Democracy and the rule of law should be guaranteed to 
everyone.
One  of  the  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda,  our  new 
development agenda, is gender equality, but women are 
still suffering from basic violence. Therefore, the first 
step is to guarantee their safety. The second step is to 
ensure  gender  equality  through  national  programmes 
and proper accountability. Strong political commitment 
on the part of all actors at all levels is crucial in that 
respect. Furthermore, the international community has 
to engage more deeply in providing support for building 
inclusive institutions of good governance.
In  order  to  achieve  our  long-term  Sustainable 
Development Goals, we also have to react to new issues 
that  arise.  For  example,  the  issue  of  immigration  is  a 
challenge  that  requires  the  attention  of  all  members 
of  the  international  community.  The  effective  use  of 
development  cooperation  can  create  a  strong  force 
for  managing  immigration  flows  and  addressing  the 
root  causes  of  sudden  migration.  It  is  our  moral  duty 
15-29253
13/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
to  provide  a  safe  haven  for  those  striving  but  unable 
to  find  peace,  freedom  and  democracy  in  their  own 
countries.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  success  of  the 
new Agenda for Sustainable Development depends on 
how we identify and mobilize all necessary means for 
implementation.
The  final  essential  issue  that  has  to  be  addressed 
is related to responsibility. There can be no opting out. 
Global partnership means global responsibility. For the 
next 15 years, sustainable development and cooperation 
must  be  built  on  ensuring  peace  and  security, 
guaranteeing  human  rights,  including  the  rights  of 
women  and  children,  gender  equality,  supporting 
democracy, and the building of inclusive institutions of 
good governance.
To conclude, we must not forget that only by joining 
the efforts of the international community as a whole 
can we attain effective sustainable development, which 
is the goal we would like to achieve.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Lithuania for her statement.
Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of Lithuania, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of Montenegro.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
President  Vujanović  (spoke 
in  Montenegrin; 
translation provided by the delegation): It is my great 
honour to address the General Assembly at this Summit, 
which represents a historic milestone in the work of the 
United Nations. At the outset, I would like to express my 
gratitude  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Ireland 
and  Kenya,  the  facilitators  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations process that resulted in the harmonization 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1).  We  believe  that  the  new  Agenda, 
covering  the  next  15  years,  will  enable  us  to  fulfil 
the  projected  vision  aimed  at  ensuring  sustainable 
development and human dignity for all.
The year 2015 is crucial for the future work of this 
Organization. It is also the year in which we mark the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations. I believe that there is no better time to consider 
what  has  been  achieved  so  far  in  all  areas  of  activity 
of  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  we  can  be  satisfied 
with  the  progress  achieved  in  the  implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  with  the 
harmonization  of  the  ambitious  and  comprehensive, 
but  also  realistic,  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
to 
implementing 
Montenegro  strongly  supports  the  adoption  of 
the  new  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  confirm 
our  commitment 
it  completely. 
An  extremely  demanding  task  of  implementation, 
monitoring  and  review  of  the  progress  achieved  is 
before  us.  We  believe  that  in  fulfilling  that  task  we 
need  to  follow  the  basic  principles  of  inclusiveness, 
empowerment,  transparency  and  respect  for  human 
rights.  We  have  advocated  for  the  creation  of  a 
transformative agenda based on the principle of respect 
for human rights and believe that the universal respect 
for human rights will be the measure of our success in 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
We commend the central role played by the High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which will follow up on and review the implementation 
of  new  Agenda  at  the  global  level,  The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  that  have  been  set  raise  a  wide 
range of interrelated issues and challenges. We are of 
the opinion that each country is responsible for its own 
social  and  economic  development.  National  strategies 
for  sustainable  development  should,  therefore,  be 
based  on  the  approach  that  the  production  of  goods 
and  services  is  crucial  to  improving  the  material  and 
spiritual  well-being  of  the  population  and  requires 
sustainable  management  of  the  four  basic  groups  of 
national resources, namely, human, social, natural and 
economic resources.
Key national resources must remain viable so that 
we can preserve the right to development for each next 
generation.  The  right  to  development  should  be  seen 
in  relation  to  humankind,  relevant  social  groups  at 
the national and local levels, and families, along with 
family  values.  In  essence,  sustainability  requires  that 
we  undertake  consistent  political  actions  focused  on 
the  development  of  human  resources,  on  stimulating 
investments  focused  on 
those  objectives  and  on 
preventing decisions that diminish national resources.
National  strategies  for  sustainable  development 
supported by integrated national financial frameworks 
operating  in  the  international  economic  environment 
must  be  strengthened  through  effective  mechanisms. 
14/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
Therefore,  in  the  process  of  their  development  and 
implementation and in the establishment of a framework 
for  monitoring  and  accountability,  close  cooperation 
with all stakeholders is necessary at all levels, including 
in  parliaments,  the  civilian  and  business  sectors  and 
academia.  An  inclusive  approach  is  a  prerequisite 
for  the  success  of  the  implementation  of  our  future 
development agenda.
We  believe  that  the  implementation  of  the  new 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, as reflected in the final document 
adopted  at  this  Summit,  must  be  achieved  as  part 
of  a  revitalized  global  partnership  for  sustainable 
development  and  supported  by  specific  policies  and 
actions, as identified in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
on  financing  for  development,  which  should  serve  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
to 
commitment 
Montenegro’s 
a  policy  of 
sustainable  development  cannot  be  questioned.  Its 
strategic  development  policy  and  guidelines  touch 
upon  all  dimensions  of  socioeconomic  development. 
Throughout  the  past  two  decades,  Montenegro  has 
maintained  its  Constitutional  decision  to  consider 
itself an ecological State and has exerted the political 
will,  dedication,  persistence,  courage  and  substantial 
financial investment to bring that about. That approach 
was particularly significant in helping us to overcome 
the negative trends that emerged during the transition 
period  and  later  during  the  global  economic  crisis. 
Although  we  have  faced  numerous  challenges,  we  in 
Montenegro  have  consistently  worked  to  make  our 
socioeconomic  development  more  sustainable  and 
preserve  our  natural  resources  for  future  generations. 
Montenegro  was  one  of  the  first  countries  in  South-
Eastern  Europe 
to  established  a  strategic  and 
institutional  framework  for  sustainable  development 
in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  developed 
countries of the European Union.
policies 
and 
development 
Guided  by  our  own  experience  in  implementing 
sustainable 
through 
our  membership  in  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  our  participation 
in the intergovernmental negotiations, we have made a 
significant contribution towards the consensus reached 
on  a  transformative,  universal  and  comprehensive 
agenda 
the  social,  economic  and 
environmental  aspects  of  sustainable  development. 
We  are  pleased  that  many  of  our  priorities  have  been 
integrates 
that 
included in the new Agenda. As a result, the fulfilment 
of the vision of the 2030 Agenda will require substantial 
efforts in the areas of eradicating poverty and inequality 
and creating peaceful, just and inclusive societies based 
on the rule of law and good governance at every level.
Conscious of the importance of implementing the 
2030 Agenda, we are already in the process of drafting a 
new national post-2015 sustainable development strategy 
that will incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals 
and  harmonize  them  with  our  national  framework. 
Through  our  policies,  which  are  to  be  based  on  our 
post-2015  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  we  will 
encourage  the  participation  of  individuals,  families 
and social groups, while at the same time ensuring the 
sustainable and integrated conservation of our human, 
social, natural and economic resources.
This Summit on the post-2015 development agenda 
was preceded by the third International Conference on 
Financing  for  Development  held  in  Addis  Ababa,  at 
which we adopted the outcome document establishing a 
financial framework for sustainable development. The 
new  Agenda  provides  us  with  strong  momentum  for 
intensifying our efforts at the end of 2015 to adopt, in 
Paris, a comprehensive, ambitious and legally binding 
agreement  on  climate  change  that  is  applicable  to  all 
countries. We believe that by year’s end we will have 
reached  an  agreement  on  climate  change  that  will  be 
another  acknowledgement  of  the  responsibility  and 
willingness  of  all  countries  and  stakeholders  to  meet 
their  obligations  under  a  new  chapter  in  the  history 
of  development.  In  that  regard,  Montenegro  is  ready 
to  support  a  strengthened  global  climate  agreement 
by  reducing  its  national  greenhouse-gas  emissions  by 
2030 by 30 per cent compared to their 1990 levels.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  gives  us  the 
hope that we can build a peaceful and prosperous world. 
We all share responsibility for its implementation. We 
are the generation that can and must make every effort 
to fulfil the vision of our 2030 Agenda.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  President  of 
Montenegro for his statement.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
15-29253
15/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
Mr.  Sogavare  (Solomon  Islands):  The  Solomon 
Islands  welcomes  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  The  new  Agenda  is 
about  people  and  seeks  to  pursue  prosperity  through 
partnerships, while operating within safe levels of our 
planet’s  capacity.  We  are  committed  to  implementing 
the  17  transformative  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs)  and  their  169  targets  within  our  national 
context  and  circumstances.  This  historic  Agenda 
presents a new and ambitious framework for sustainable 
development that requires us to act urgently to reverse 
our  current  unsustainable  global  consumption  and 
production  patterns.  We  must,  therefore,  seek  new 
ways of doing business and measuring wealth that are 
linked  to  guaranteeing  the  survival  of  humankind.  In 
that  regard,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  must 
remain people-centred.
The  overarching  objective  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  not  just  to  eradicate  poverty; 
it  is  also  about  healing  the  declining  health  of  our 
planet.  Preserving  life  on  Earth  must  be  our  shared 
responsibility,  for  prosperity  cannot  be  pursued  in  a 
dead  environment.  The  17  time-bound  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  must  now  become  a  highway  for 
global  partnerships  and  be  matched  with  sufficient 
resources,  if  we  are  to  meaningfully  transform  our 
peoples’ lives.
As  a  small  island  developing  State  (SIDS),  the 
Solomon Islands remains a special case in the area of 
sustainable  development,  given  our  vulnerability  to 
climate  change  and  our  unique  characteristics,  which 
require  special  attention  from  the  global  community. 
We  are  committed 
to  delivering  on  sustainable 
development nationally under the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda,  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA) Pathway (resolution 69/15) and the Istanbul 
Programme  of  Action,  which  can  enable  SIDS  and 
least-developed  countries  (LDCs)  to  leapfrog  from 
development to sustainability.
The  Solomon  Islands  will  be  reviewing 
its 
cooperation programmes to ensure that they are aligned 
with the Sustainable Development Goals in the context 
of our national priorities. We will incorporate the Goals 
into  our  20-year,  2016-2036  national  development 
strategy by the end of this year or in the first quarter 
of  the  next.  We  therefore  call  on  all  our  development 
partners to support our efforts.
In  the  area  of  sustainable  energy,  the  Solomon 
Islands is currently working on two hydro projects with 
the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Both 
projects remain on our post-2015 agenda. We are also 
seeking partnerships so that we can make progress on 
other  hydro  projects  and  also  realize  our  potential  in 
the  area  of  geothermal  and  wind  energy.  Currently, 
85  per  cent  of  the  population  of  Solomon  Islands  is 
not connected to the energy grid. We need partners to 
invest  in  large-scale,  game-changing  energy  projects 
in  our  rural  areas  that  can  open  up  opportunities  for 
our population and free up the one third of our national 
budget that is spent on importing fossil fuels.
With  regard 
to  agriculture,  we  call  on  our 
development  partners  to  assist  us  in  integrating  our 
rural  sector  into  the  mainstream  economy  and  in 
ensuring that it enjoy its fair share of the global market. 
Building  a  resilient  economy  for  the  Solomon  Islands 
will require significant international cooperation with 
our  efforts  to  construct  an  environmentally  sound 
infrastructure  in  the  areas  of  energy,  transportation, 
communication,  agriculture,  tourism  and  information 
and technology.
The  new  2030  Agenda,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda  and  the  agreement  on  climate  change  that 
we  hope  to  see  concluded  in  Paris  in  December  are 
intricately  linked  to  sustainable  development.  On 
climate  change,  the  science  is  clear;  we  are  heading 
towards a global temperature increase of between 3°C 
and 3.5°C. That will leave the small island developing 
States and the LDCs behind, unless those with historical 
responsibility for causing the climate change do more 
and  submit  ambitious  mitigation  commitments  under 
their intended, nationally determined contributions. In 
the lead-up to the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in Paris, I should remind 
us  all  once  again  of  the  Suva  Declaration  on  Climate 
Change,  issued  by  the  Pacific  Islands  Developing 
Forum, which calls for stabilizing the increase in global 
temperatures at a level well below 1.5°C. The outcome 
agreement of the Paris Conference should be ambitious, 
comprehensive and legally binding, with agreements on 
loss and damage issues anchored in it as a stand-alone 
chapter.
Let  me  close  with  the  words  of  the  late  Nelson 
Mandela, “Poverty is man-made and can be eradicated”. 
To  that  I  would  add  that  climate  change  is  also  man-
made and can be reversed.
16/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
We are here to make history. To that end we must 
provide  honest  and  quality  political  leadership  that 
secures  and  guarantees  hope  for  our  people  and  our 
planet. Let us go forward and urgently get on with the 
task of creating a better future for our children, their 
children, and generations to come.
adopted  a  national  sustainable  development  strategy. 
In  July,  we  conducted  a  review  of  our  progress  in 
implementing  the  strategy,  the  results  of  which  have 
been communicated to the United Nations Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  and  the  Division  for 
Sustainable Development.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the Prime Minister of 
Solomon Islands for his statement.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Musveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the President of the Government of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, President of the Government 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Gruevski  (Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia): We are gathered at this Summit to adopt 
a  bold  and  universal  agenda  for  ending  poverty, 
improving  the  well-being  of  citizens  and  protecting 
our  planet.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  all  Member 
States  and  other  relevant  actors  that  have  worked 
tirelessly on the outcome document that has now been 
adopted:  “Transforming  our  world:  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development” (resolution 70/1). The 17 
Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets will be 
our guiding light in crafting the future for our countries 
and  citizens.  The  vision  for  a  more  stable,  peaceful, 
prosperous, inclusive and environmentally sustainable 
world can be accomplished only if we join forces and 
work  together  in  partnership  at  the  global,  regional, 
national and local levels.
The  Central  European  Initiative,  over  which  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  currently  presides,  seeks  to 
be actively engaged in the implementation of the post-
2015 development agenda, and its member States have 
expressed their readiness to make a concrete regional 
contribution,  to  transfer  know-how  and  to  exchange 
best  practices 
in  designing  various  sustainable 
development  initiatives,  in  building  the  capacities  of 
public institutions and in raising awareness.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  contributes  actively 
to  those  common  goals.  After  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Rio  in 
2012, we began to integrate the principles of sustainable 
development into our national policies. We established 
a  National  Council  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
The next step will be to integrate the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  into  our  strategic  documents, 
including our sustainable development action plan. We 
expect to receive support for that process under the new 
United  Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework 
2016-2020,  which  is  being  developed  in  consultation 
with  all  relevant  stakeholders.  The  Government 
consulted  non-governmental  organizations  and  took 
their views into account when we answered the United 
Nations questionnaire relating to the preparation of the 
Secretary General’s initial input to the Open Working 
Group.
We  have  increased  social  transfers  for  socially 
vulnerable persons by over 50 per cent; special financial 
benefits  have  been  introduced  and  even  increased 
for  the  most  vulnerable  categories,  especially  for 
children without parental care, and we have exempted 
private-sector  employers  from  payroll  taxes  for  the 
employment of such persons for a period of five or more 
years. As a result of foreign investment and support for 
the  private  sector,  unemployment  in  our  country  has 
been reduced by over 11 per cent. The concept of free 
health care for every citizen has been introduced. We 
are investing in medical equipment and infrastructure, 
and the prices of pharmaceuticals have been reduced. 
In  addition,  we  are  financing  farmers  through  high 
budgetary subsidies.
implemented 
With respect to young people, the education budget 
in  recent  years  has  been  between  5  and  6  per  cent  of 
gross  domestic  product,  which  is  on  a  par  with  the 
level  of  countries  in  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation and Development. In the area of primary 
education,  we  have 
the  Cambridge 
Primary  Science  and  Mathematics  Curricula.  English 
language instruction starts in first grade, and a second 
foreign  language  begins  in  the  sixth  grade.  We  have 
provided  a  computer  for  every  child  in  primary  and 
secondary  schools,  as  well  as  80  modern  laboratories 
for the development of scientific research. We offer full 
scholarships for each citizen who manages to enrol at 
one of the top 100 universities in the world.
15-29253
17/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
For  the  employment  of  people  under  the  age  of 
35,  the  State  pays  contributions  for  social  insurance 
and  personal  income  tax.  In  line  with  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  5  on  the  achievement  of  gender 
equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and  girls, 
we are committed to eliminating all forms of violence 
against  women  and  girls,  especially  to  ending  human 
trafficking,  for  which  we  have  received  the  highest 
assessment  from  the  international  sources.  We  are 
improving  the  economic  status  of  women  through 
special  programmes  for  the  financing  of  women  in 
the job market, the employment of single mothers, the 
extension of maternity leave and special protection for 
employed mothers and the promotion of the increased 
participation  of  women  in  political  life,  as  well  as 
measures to promote sexual and reproductive health.
Even  taking  into  consideration  that  there  should 
be  a  difference  in  the  responsibilities  of  countries 
at  different  levels  of  development,  as  well  as  a  fair 
distribution of the burden of sustainable development, 
especially in the area of climate change and pollution, 
each country should find its own strengths and bear a 
fair share of the burden for its own development. Let us 
deliver together what we jointly have committed to today 
for the future we want. The seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations obligates us, even more, to perform 
better.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  President  of 
the  Government  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia for his statement.
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, President of the Government 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Abe (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  Our  joint  international 
efforts over the years to realize sustainable development 
have  culminated  in  this  historic  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The new Agenda 
contains five key elements known as the five Ps: people, 
planet,  prosperity,  peace  and  partnership,  at  its  core. 
It  also  forges  an  ambitious  plan  of  action  in  various 
fields  including  women,  health,  education,  disaster 
risk reduction and quality growth. Based on those core 
components, which have all been emphasized by Japan, 
the  new  Agenda  will  lead  our  efforts  in  ultimately 
eradicating  poverty  from  the  earth  and  transforming 
the world into a sustainable planet by 2030.
Japan proposed international development goals as 
early as the 1990s and has consistently contributed to 
that endeavour. Japan therefore sincerely welcomes the 
adoption of the 2030 Agenda. I would like to express my 
respect for the efforts made by all those who worked so 
hard to bring the process forward. In order to implement 
this  new,  universal  Agenda,  we  must  overcome  the 
traditional  North-South  dichotomy;  we  must  work 
together  to  instead  build  a  new  global  partnership 
where  all  stakeholders,  including  all  countries,  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society,  join  forces  and  play 
their respective roles. Such a partnership should also be 
one in which women, people with disabilities and the 
young proactively participate.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  Japan,  as  part  of 
that  partnership,  will  put  forth  its  best  possible 
effort,  together  with  the  international  community,  to 
implement the Agenda. For the past 60 years, Japan has 
continuously contributed to the stability and prosperity 
of  the  international  community  by  providing  official 
development  assistance  amounting  to  approximately 
$330 billion in total, and by accepting 560,000 trainees 
and  dispatching  190,000  experts  and  volunteers. 
Building upon those achievements, Japan will promote 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We will carry 
that  effort  forward  by  applying  the  Development 
Cooperation Charter of Japan as a compass, which was 
newly established this year as a foundation for Japan’s 
development cooperation. In particular, we will do so 
based  on  the  concept  of  human  security,  the  guiding 
principle  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  that 
focuses on each and every individual.
In  order  to  promote  the  Agenda,  Japan  will  first 
pursue  various  initiatives  to  achieve  quality  growth, 
by  which  we  specifically  mean  inclusive,  sustainable 
and resilient growth for all, and thereby to end poverty. 
To  achieve  that  aim,  Japan  will  take  a  leading  role 
in  promoting  quality  infrastructure  investment  as 
a  foundation  for  quality  growth  —  not  only  in  Asia, 
but across the world including in Africa. Additionally, 
using development cooperation as a catalyst, Japan will 
expand  partnerships  with  the  private  sector  in  order 
to  mobilize  its  financial  resources  and  technologies. 
Furthermore,  Japan  will  promote  the  development  of 
industrial  human  resources  as  a  key  driving  force  to 
18/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
achieve such growth, taking advantage of our country’s 
high educational standards and advanced technology.
Conference  on  African  Development,  the  sixth  such 
conference and the first to be held in Africa.
The second approach that Japan will emphasize is 
the protection and empowerment of people in vulnerable 
situations  to  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  Since 
the health field is an essential component in that effort, 
Japan has announced a new global health policy aimed 
at  strengthening  health  systems  to  better  prepare  the 
international community for public health emergencies 
such as the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease and to 
promote  universal  health  coverage  in  every  country. 
In education, Japan has established a new cooperation 
strategy,  entitled  “Learning  Strategy  for  Peace  and 
Growth”, 
learning 
quality  and  supporting  human  resource  development 
in  industry,  science  and  technology.  In  the  field  of 
disaster  risk  reduction,  Japan  will  take  a  leading  role 
in  implementing  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk Reduction 2015-2030, adopted in March, and calls 
upon  the  international  community  to  establish  World 
Tsunami  Day  at  the  United  Nations  to  raise  global 
awareness of the risk of tsunamis.
is  focused  on  enhancing 
that 
Thirdly,  Japan  will  further  strengthen  efforts  to 
achieve sustainability in the environment and in society. 
On  the  issue  of  climate  change,  Japan  will  steadily 
implement assistance particularly to the most vulnerable 
countries and actively contribute to establishing a fair 
and effective international framework applicable to all 
parties at the upcoming session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate  Change.  Moreover,  Japan  will  share  with  the 
world our renowned knowledge and efforts on building 
a sound material-cycle society, including the concept of 
the three Rs: reduce, reuse and recycle.
Last  but  not  least,  the  Japanese  Government’s 
pension investment fund, which operates a $1 trillion 
pension  fund  and  is  the  largest  such  fund  in  the 
world,  has  just  signed  the  United  Nations  Principles 
for  Responsible  Investment,  thereby  contributing  to 
the  achievement  of  sustainable  development.  In  just 
three  months  we  will  enter  into  the  first  year  of  the 
global  endeavour  towards  2030.  We  must  take  action 
immediately to implement the new Agenda.
Let  me  conclude  my  statement  by  reiterating  our 
determination  to  tackle  the  important  challenge  of 
achieving sustainable development by making the most 
of  the  upcoming  opportunities  next  year,  such  as  the 
World  Humanitarian  Summit,  and  the  International 
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the Prime Minister of 
Japan for his statement.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Thailand.
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Chan-o-cha  (Thailand)  (spoke 
in  Thai; 
English  statement  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have 
come  to  this  historic  Summit  to  reaffirm  that  the 
Government and the people of Thailand stand with the 
global community in its resolve to realize the new 2030 
Sustainable Development Agenda (resolution 70/1). We 
are  pleased  that  the  2030  Agenda  places  people  at  its 
core, for people are the ultimate agents of change and 
play  a  role  in  sustainable  development.  Our  actions 
today will determine the survival of future generations.
Today  there  is  no  longer  any  doubt  that  human 
activity  has  been  the  prime  contributor  to  climate 
change,  the  greatest  threat  ever  faced  by  humankind. 
Knowing all that we know now, we have a choice to make. 
We can continue on the path of rampant consumerism 
and  maximum  growth  at  all  costs.  Or  we  can  choose 
to live sustainably, with a focus on quality, moderation 
and  balance  in  our  lives.  We  can  choose  to  respect 
nature, rather than viewing it merely as a commodity to 
exploit. What I have just said derives from His Majesty 
the  King’s  “sufficiency  economy”  philosophy.  The 
philosophy,  with  its  emphasis  on  reason,  moderation 
and  building  resilience,  has  seen  us  through  several 
crises, including the 1997 financial crisis and the 2004 
tsunami. It also helped Thailand achieve nearly all of 
the Millennium Development Goals, and it is the basis 
for our 2015-2020 vision and the forthcoming national 
economic and social development plan.
Another pressing challenge of our time is inequality. 
It is the root cause of such problems as poverty, conflict 
over resources, and irregular migration, which can, in 
turn,  spawn  violence.  To  address  inequality,  we  must 
first  have  effective  laws.  The  Thai  Government  has 
passed  a  number  of  bills,  for  example,  on  protecting 
the homeless, promoting gender equality and providing 
equitable access to resources and public services. We 
15-29253
19/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
want to create a level playing field for all, to promote 
good  governance,  accountability  and  transparency  in 
public  administration,  and  to  combat  corruption  and 
nepotism.
the 
Secondly, 
intrinsic  worth  of  each  and 
every  human  being  must  be  recognized.  The  Thai 
Government is working to empower the vulnerable and 
the  disenfranchised.  Various  measures  have  therefore 
been put in place, such as universal health coverage, a 
national retirement savings fund, an increased monthly 
allowance for the elderly and the disabled and a subsidy 
for babies newly born into poor families. We are also 
striving  to  strengthen  the  individual  and  the  family, 
enhance  community  involvement  and  promote  social 
cohesiveness.
Similar  support  is  also  provided  to  non-citizens. 
Last  year,  the  Thai  Government  offered  social  and 
legal protection to unskilled migrant workers, and over 
1.6  million  migrants  were  registered  and  regularized 
for  employment  to  protect  them  from  human  rights 
abuses and human trafficking.
Nevertheless,  many  people  still  need  help.  And 
to reach them, especially the most vulnerable groups, 
we must improve our statistics and disaggregated data 
to give them visibility and ensure that their needs are 
more precisely addressed. At the same time, the social 
recognition  of  such  groups  is  also  important,  and  we 
must  build  a  society  that  is  compassionate,  respects 
humanity and embraces equality.
Thirdly,  we  need  to  create  an  environment  that 
enables  and  sustains  development.  To  lay  strong 
socioeconomic  foundations, 
the  Thai  Government 
has  been  empowering  local  communities  through  the 
establishment  of  village  funds,  including  women’s 
empowerment funds, across the country. The funds are 
used to assist local small and medium-sized enterprises 
and  have  been  effective  in  helping  to  generate  jobs 
and  income  for  the  rural  masses.  The  Government 
is  also  helping  farmers  to  settle  their  debts  and 
promoting  sustainable  agriculture  practices  and  agro-
industry through local knowledge sharing and modern 
technology.  While  Thailand  enjoys  full  employment, 
the  Government  has  also  been  helping  low-income 
people  to  find  jobs  through  the  so-called  smart  jobs 
centres.
Fourthly,  we  believe  in  reducing  inequality,  not 
only  within  countries  but  also  among  them,  through 
development  partnerships.  We  have  been  working 
to  narrow  the  development  gaps  in  mainland  South-
East Asia, starting with our neighbours, by promoting 
connectivity and setting up six special economic zones 
along our borders under what we call the Thailand Plus 
One initiative.
Only when individuals and communities are strong 
can  our  nations  and  the  global  community  discover 
true  strength.  In  the  next  15  years,  we  should  see 
unprecedented  reductions  in  inequality  and  poverty. 
Thailand  stands  ready  to  work  with  all  countries  and 
the United Nations to that end for a stable, prosperous 
and sustainable world.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the Prime Minister of 
Thailand for his statement.
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of 
Thailand, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy 
of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State, Minister for Communications and the Media 
and  Minister  of  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Bettel (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): Being 
universal,  proactive  and  transparent  have  never  been 
more imperative principles for the United Nations than 
today,  when  news  accounts  of  bloody  conflicts  are 
mixed with the sombre warnings of environmental and 
climate-change disasters.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) represents a singular leap forward. The 
time for reflection is past; now is the time for action. 
Our  challenge  is  twofold:  to  ensure  that  the  17  new 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  continue  the 
momentum  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to 
eradicate poverty and hunger throughout the world and 
to permit us to focus joint development efforts on long-
term sustainability. That is why we need to rigorously 
monitor the implementation of those Goals to be able 
to  objectively  measure  progress  in  terms  of  what  has 
been and what has yet to be achieved. United Nations 
leadership, supported by regional and national efforts, 
should  guarantee  the  inclusive  and  interdisciplinary 
implementation of the Agenda.
Our  global  environment  remains  dependent  on 
differing rhythms and speeds. Our resolve for the year 
20/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
2030 may therefore appear distant to some, whereas it 
is,  in  fact,  tomorrow.  We  must  make  no  mistake,  the 
2030  Agenda  is  the  responsibility  of  our  generation, 
and future generations will judge us on our ability to 
act.  The  transformative  power  of  the  Agenda  should 
introduce a new quality to the dialogue among nations. 
In  that  context,  the  updated  universality  inherent  in 
the  common  Agenda  cannot  be  realized  without  the 
view of shared responsibility and without the ongoing 
promotion  of  respect  for  all  human  rights  and  the 
principles  of  good  governance.  As  never  before,  civil 
society has been urged to participate in the dialogue and 
the pursuit of the objectives declared in the 17 SDGs.
The old categories of North and South, of developed 
and developing countries, have become obsolete. Now 
dialogue among equals on topics that concern all of us 
will allow us to provide the foundation for a world more 
egalitarian and interdependent world. We must ensure 
that the competitive race does not lead to low standards 
today  and  to  onerous  and  irreversible  consequences 
tomorrow.
The protection of the environment, the fight against 
climate  change  and  the  integration  of  social  criteria 
should not be perceived as a threat to industry or as a 
brake  on  economic  development.  Rather,  those  Goals 
can contribute to the development of clean technologies 
and  help  us  to  engage  in  greater  diversification  of 
our  economies  by  promoting  sustainable  growth. 
Some  companies  on  my  continent  have  noted  that 
other  continents  have  less  severe  regulation  of  the 
environment, so they plan to leave our countries to set 
up elsewhere. While we often talk about tax and social 
dumping, we must also act to end such environmental 
dumping. The cafeteria lunch I had today was crucial, 
because  everyone  was  committed  to  moving  forward 
in  the  same  direction.  Moving  forward  in  another 
direction makes no sense at all.
Secondly, we should not forget that the mere scope 
of  the  new  SDGs  compared  to  the  earlier  MDGs  will 
require  diversified  and  mutually  complementary 
sources  of  funding.  Official  development  assistance 
remains  a  crucial  lever  to  provide  additional  capital. 
Luxembourg  encourages  all  developed  countries  to 
invest  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  national  income  in 
official development assistance. In that context, I would 
like to remind the Assembly that, for several years, our 
national contribution amount has been 1 per cent of our 
gross national income.
What we say today in this Hall should be the same 
thing we say in our countries at home. We must honour 
our international commitments to official development 
assistance, which must reach 0.7 per cent of the gross 
national income, and to international climate funding, 
which  by  2020  is  to  reach  $100  billion  annually,  as 
decided in Copenhagen in 2009. We must not resort to 
the notion that charity begins at home and the populist 
talk  that  claims  we  have  enough  problems  to  address 
at home in our countries, so why help other people If 
we look at ourselves in the mirror and if we are honest, 
we  will  admit  that  what  we  are  complaining  about 
in  our  home  countries  is  trifling.  We  are  incredibly 
successful,  while  in  other  parts  of  the  world  people 
do not know if they are going to be able to feed their 
children more than once a day. It is foolish to complain 
that the water is tepid — not hot or cold enough— when 
in other countries they are happy to have enough water 
to be able to survive. So we need to be reasonable. We 
must  look  in  the  mirror  and  realize  that  some  of  the 
problems we have in our countries are superficial and 
related to abundance.
Beyond ongoing programmatic efforts, the support 
of the private sector and its awareness-raising are key 
when  working  with  public  authorities  to  achieve  the 
Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
The Goals should complement the picture so that there 
is  no  duplication  or  contradiction.  Luxembourg  is 
particularly  committed  to  the  respect  and  promotion 
of  social  rights.  The  2030  Agenda  should  be  able  to 
guarantee decent working conditions for all. The third 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
drafted  a  number  of  important  paths  to  follow,  and 
the  conclusions  of  that  Conference  will  serve  as  an 
important basis for the implementation of our Agenda. 
The  2030  Agenda  takes  into  account,  not  only  the 
increased  interconnectedness  between  different  areas 
in  an  era  of  globalization  but  also  the  impact  of  this 
on  the  environment  and  climate.  The  environmental 
aspect  of  sustainability,  the  conservation  of  natural 
resources,  the  protection  of  biodiversity  and  ensuring 
food security — all such concerns are fundamental in 
ensuring prosperity and well-being for all.
We must unlock the engines of a “green economy”, 
which for my country means that we do not use nuclear 
energy.  We  need  to  make  our  economies  and  our 
lifestyles  more  equitable,  more  sustainable  and  more 
effective  in  eradicating  poverty.  We  are  not  going  to 
resolve  the  crisis  of  poverty  and  migration  without 
15-29253
21/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
addresssing  the  challenges  posed  by  climate  change 
and  the  environment.  We  will  not  overcome  major 
crises  —  migration,  wars  and  hunger  —  unless  we 
restore dignity to men and women, while respecting the 
Earth which feeds us.
For  a  long  time  now,  Luxembourg  has  focused 
on  a  development  policy  that  promotes  long-term 
sustainable  results.  Inclusiveness  is  the  inevitable 
corollary of that approach, based on objective analyses, 
listening  to  various  stakeholders  and  monitoring  that 
includes  the  participation  of  all  stakeholders.  That  is 
also the best path to follow to ensure the success of the 
2030 Agenda and to bring about a truly united world, 
and  one  in  which  humankind  is  sensitive  to  the  need 
for  integrated  harmonious  development  and  eager  to 
preserve  our  planet  and  to  improve  the  daily  life  and 
dignity for all of us.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister, 
Minister of State, Minister for Communications and the 
Media and Minister of Worship of the Grand Duchy of 
Luxembourg, for his statement.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State, Minister for Communications and the Media 
and  Minister  of  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister, First Lord of 
the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The  Right  Honourable  David  Cameron,  Prime 
Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and Minister 
for  the  Civil  Service  of  the  United  Kingdom  of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, was escorted 
to the rostrum
Mr.  Cameron  (United  Kingdom):  We  meet  at 
an  important  moment.  Today,  we  celebrate  the  huge 
progress that the world has made towards the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and we commit to going 
even further through the new Sustainable Development 
Goals. Since the MDGs were adopted in the year 2000 
(resolution 55/2), we have made huge strides forward. 
The proportion of people living in extreme poverty has 
fallen significantly. Malaria deaths have fallen by 60 per 
cent since 2000, saving more than 6 million lives. And 
43 million fewer children are out of school. I am proud 
to lead a country that has made a huge contribution to 
that extraordinary progress.
The  United  Kingdom’s  open  markets,  trade  and 
investment  have  helped  to  spur  global  growth.  Our 
scientists  have  developed  new  technologies  for  the 
world’s  poorest.  And,  crucially,  we  have  kept  our 
promises on aid. We have not just achieved the 0.7 per 
cent  target  of  the  United  Nations;  we  have  enshrined 
it  in  the  law  of  our  land.  That  investment  is  helping 
the  world’s  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  people  to 
lead a better life. Children have been vaccinated who 
otherwise would have died. Refugees have been fed and 
clothed who otherwise would have starved. Countries 
were  accorded  a  chance  of  stability  and  security  that 
otherwise could have fallen apart. Aid is not enough on 
its own. Of course not. But it is essential. And it works.
Today, therefore, I call on others to follow Britain’s 
lead. I say to my fellow world leaders from developed 
countries:  we  have  been  making  those  aid  promises 
for  years.  Now,  let  us  all  deliver  on  them.  The  world 
is  watching.  And  now,  as  we  adopt  these  new  Goals, 
let us inspire the world with what we want to achieve: 
to  reduce  preventable  deaths  to  zero,  to  eliminate 
illiteracy  and  malnutrition  and  to  eradicate  extreme 
poverty within a generation. That is a clarion call to the 
whole world.
To eliminate the scourge of extreme poverty for the 
first time in human history is something that has been 
dreamed of for centuries, something that many thought 
would never happen, but something that is now within 
our grasp. I am delighted that ending extreme poverty 
forever is at the heart of the new Goals. It is something 
that I pushed hard for. And I am delighted that we have 
recognized that to end extreme poverty, we need to put 
the  poorest,  the  weakest  and  the  most  marginalized 
first — to leave no one behind.
But  today,  together,  we  commit  to  going  even 
further.  There  can  be  no  attack  on  poverty  without 
an  assault  on  climate  change.  We  therefore  commit 
to  making  progress  in  a  way  that  is  sustainable  and 
protects  our  one  and  only  planet  for  the  long  term, 
and treasures and conserves our natural resources for 
future  generations.  That  is  the  only  way  to  eliminate 
extreme poverty forever and to prevent all our progress 
from  being  undone  by  environmental  degradation  or 
dangerous climate change.
And  there  can  be  no  attack  on  poverty  without 
ending gender inequality. Today, therefore, we commit 
to a world where women and girls are treated equally 
with  men  and  boys.  And,  crucially,  we  commit  to 
22/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
tackling  all  the  causes  of  poverty.  Let  us  be  frank, 
especially  here,  about  what  keeps  so  many  stuck  in 
poverty:  corruption,  rotten  government,  no  access  to 
justice,  no  property  rights,  no  rule  of  law.  Today,  for 
the first time, every country in the world is committing 
to tackling corruption, to promoting the rule of law and 
access to justice, to reducing illicit financial flows and 
to strengthening the return of stolen assets.
and 
transparent 
institutions 
We  are  committing 
to  building  accountable 
and 
representative 
decision-making  to  ensure  that  everyone  has  a  legal 
identity  and  access  to  information.  We  are  saying 
that we must protect basic freedoms. For a long time, 
those  issues  were  off  the  global  development  agenda. 
Now  they  are  right  at  the  top  of  it,  and  everyone  has 
signed  up.  That  was  one  of  the  key  recommendations 
of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the 
Post-2015  Development  Agenda,  which  I  co-chaired 
along with the Presidents of Liberia and Indonesia, in 
its report entitled “A new global partnership: eradicate 
poverty and transform economies through sustainable 
development”.  I  am  delighted  that  it  is  being  adopted 
here  today.  Achieving  these  Goals  will  take  actions, 
not  words.  In  addition  to  aid,  we  need  investment, 
trade,  growth  and  jobs.  I  therefore  urge  companies 
around the world to invest in developing products for 
the  poorest  and  in  new  forms  of  clean  energy.  And  I 
urge  Governments  to  smash  down  the  unfair  barriers 
that prevent our people from trading freely, starting at 
the meeting of the World Trade Organization later this 
year.
And let us go even further. We need a new global 
partnership to ensure that all our policies — on things 
like tax, trade and transparency — really help to deliver 
progress for the poorest. The United Kingdom will lead 
the  way  internationally,  just  as  we  did  leading  this 
Agenda with our 2013 presidency of the Group of Eight.
That  is  why  I  have  agreed  to  host  a  major 
anti-corruption  summit  next  year,  to  drive  further 
action.  I  therefore  assure  leaders  in  Government, 
business  and  communities  around  the  world  that,  if 
they are committed to making progress towards those 
global goals, the United Kingdom is on their side and 
will work with them on our shared quest.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister, 
First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  and  Minister  for  the  Civil 
Service  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland for his statement.
Mr. David Cameron, Prime Minister, First Lord of 
the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service of 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
Defence  and  Home  Affairs,  Minister  of  Rodrigues 
and  National  Development  Unit  of  the  Republic  of 
Mauritius.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth,Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted to the rostrum.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth (Mauritius): I am pleased 
and honoured to participate in this crucial Summit. It 
marks the culmination of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) era and the transition to the new period 
of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
For  the  past  15  years,  the  MDGs  have  remained 
a  focus  for  global  policy  debates  and  national  policy 
planning  in  many  developing  countries,  including 
my  own.  There  is  a  broad  consensus  that  they  have 
played  an  important  part  in  securing  substantial 
progress  in  fighting  poverty.  We  all  agree  that  a 
globally  endorsed  agenda  for  fighting  poverty  should 
continue  beyond  2015.  In  a  world  already  undergoing 
dramatic  shifts,  including  climate  change  and  other 
serious  environmental 
is  widespread 
understanding  that  global  environmental  objectives 
need a greater international emphasis and commitment, 
alongside those concerned with poverty reduction. The 
focus  is  now  on  building  a  sustainable  world  where 
environmental  sustainability,  social 
inclusion  and 
economic development are equally valued.
there 
ills, 
Mauritius  has  by  and  large  met  the  MDGs, 
especially  in  the  areas  of  education,  gender  equality 
and  poverty  reduction.  We  are,  however,  faced  with 
some  emerging  concerns  and  priorities  related  to  the 
widening of the income gap, unemployment that results 
from  a  skills  mismatch,  demographic  challenges  and 
environmental  and  climate-change  issues  that  can 
affect the achievement of both the MDGs and the new 
SDGs.
Mauritius 
is  comforted 
the  new  global 
development agenda, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  espouses 
its  own 
sustainable  development  agenda,  one  that  I  laid  out 
that 
15-29253
23/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
at  the  national  level  in  my  Vision  2030  economic 
mission  statement  on  22  August.  This  shared  Agenda 
emphasizes poverty eradication and social inclusiveness 
as  indispensable  to  sustainable  development.  It  is 
dedicated  to  offering  a  life  of  dignity  to  all,  through 
the  provision  of  nutritious  food,  safe  drinking  water, 
good sanitation, affordable and reliable energy, health 
care, housing, productive employment and decent jobs, 
quality  education,  conflict  prevention  and  the  rule  of 
law and good governance.
The  Agenda  is  people-centred  and  guarantees 
rights,  justice,  freedoms  and  access  to  information. 
It  promotes  and  supports  sustainable  oceans,  forests, 
agriculture  and  land  ecosystems  and  a  sustainable 
climate on Earth. I am here today not only to endorse 
our new global development Agenda but also to affirm 
my country’s strong political commitment to its timely 
implementation.
Since  climate-related  concerns  represent  real 
threats to life on our planet, Mauritius looks forward to 
the adoption of a binding agreement on climate change 
at  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December. 
My  Government  is  fully  committed  to  effectively 
monitoring  climate  variability  and  change  as  well  as 
addressing the problems related to rises in sea levels in 
coastal regions.
We particularly welcome the inclusion in the 2030 
Agenda of a stand-alone goal on the oceans. It is a cause 
that we have championed in international negotiations. 
The  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  world’s 
oceans, including the high seas, is very important to the 
well-being  of  humankind.  Mauritius  plans  to  develop 
its ocean economy as one of the pillars of its sustainable 
development  path.  Given  the  vital  role  of  the  oceans, 
reducing  water  pollution  and  protecting  marine 
ecosystem services and biodiversity are imperative.
As  a  small  developing  island,  we  believe  it  is 
urgent  that  the  global  community  take  into  account 
the  specific  vulnerabilities  and  challenges  of  small 
island developing States (SIDS). We must address the 
supply-side constraints on SIDS in order to ensure their 
integration into the global trading system, and we must 
adopt a pragmatic approach with regard to the question 
of special treatment in the areas of financial access to 
climate funds and technical assistance for SIDS, as well 
as trade. We firmly believe that SIDS should be granted 
special  international  recognition  within  the  United 
Nations system.
Achieving a comprehensive post-2015 development 
agenda will above all require a comprehensive framework 
for its financing, among other means of implementation. 
It  is  clear  that  the  current  financing  and  investment 
patterns will not deliver on the Goals. To achieve the 
SDGs, it is important that we increase and rationalize 
overseas  development  assistance  and  financial  flows, 
as well as mobilizing new and additional resources for 
developing  countries,  including  SIDS,  from  multiple 
sources.  The  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  adopted 
at  the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  has  laid  the  foundation  for  strong 
support  to  the  realization  of  the  SDGs.  Its  inclusion 
in  the  means  of  implementation  provides  concrete 
deliverables that set the tone for the process. And we 
particularly  welcome  the  annual  high-level  meeting 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  financing  for 
development, aimed at reviewing the outcomes of the 
Conference  and  the  means  of  implementation  for  the 
post-2015 agenda.
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the  convening  by 
the Secretary-General of an inter-agency task force to 
report on progress on both financing for development 
and  the  SDGs.  Mauritius  greatly  appreciates  the 
establishment of a technology facilitation mechanism, 
designed  to  identify  technology  needs  and  gaps  and 
facilitate the dissemination and transfer of technology 
relevant  to  the  SDGs.  That  is  crucial  for  my  country, 
since the next phase of our socioeconomic development 
will be driven by technology and innovation.
The  achievement  of  the  SDGs  will  require  close 
collaboration between Governments, the private sector 
and  civil  society.  The  contribution  of  international 
organizations and multinational companies, with their 
worldwide reach, cutting-edge technologies and massive 
capacity  to  reach  large-scale  solutions,  is  essential 
to  success.  The  SDGs  will  require  an  unprecedented 
mobilization  of  global  knowledge  operating  across 
many sectors and regions.
My Government is fully committed to implementing 
the  2030  Sustainable  Development  Agenda,  and  we 
urge the international community to support developing 
countries so that they can deliver. It is with great hope 
and expectations that Mauritius endorses the document.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence  and  Home  Affairs,  Minister  of 
24/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
Rodrigues  and  National  Development  Unit  of  the 
Republic of Mauritius for his statement.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Turkey.
Mr.  Ahmet  Davutoğlu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Davutoğlu  (Turkey):  We  have  gathered  to 
celebrate a historic event, as we adopt an ambitious and 
universal sustainable development agenda. Together, we 
are making a pledge to transform the world for the better 
in the next decade and a half. Humankind faces complex 
and  interlinked  challenges.  Continuing  poverty,  ever-
deepening inequalities, climate change and other forms 
of  environmental  degradation,  global  health  threats, 
spiralling  conflict,  violent  extremism,  terrorism  and 
the  consequent  humanitarian  crises  —  including  the 
displacement  of  unprecedented  numbers  of  people 
seeking  refuge  —  threaten  our  well-being  and  our 
planet’s future. On the eve of the new millennium, we 
agreed on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Since the adoption of the MDGs, significant progress 
has  been  made  to  reach  those  Goals.  Unfortunately, 
progress has been uneven among and within countries, 
and some of the Goals still remain off-track.
That is why we must all commit, without reservation, 
to  the  new  Global  Agenda  that  we  are  proclaiming 
today (resolution 70/1). It is particularly important that 
the  2030  Agenda  build  upon  the  achievements  of  the 
MDGs  and  address  the  unfinished  business.  Turkey 
strongly supports the emphasis on providing scaled-up 
assistance  to  the  least  developed  countries  and  other 
most vulnerable countries. That will help to fulfil our 
pledge of leaving no one behind.
interested in the facts, 66,000 Syrian babies have been 
born in camps in Turkey. Our country has spent almost 
8 billion dollars for the refugees in camps, with a very 
modest contribution from the international community.
We  cannot  reach  our  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  without  first  addressing  complex  humanitarian 
emergencies.  That  is  why  a  greater  emphasis  on  the 
humanitarian-development  nexus  is  strongly  needed. 
And  that  is  why  Turkish  humanitarian  diplomacy 
combines  humanitarian  and  development  assistance 
programmes within a collective strategy, with an eye to 
the countries in sub-Saharan Africa, in particular. The 
World  Humanitarian  Summit  will  be  held  in  Istanbul 
on 23 and 24 May 2016 and will provide an excellent 
opportunity to assess the degree of coherence between 
financing  for  humanitarian  assistance  and  financing 
for development assistance.
Turkey  will  also  host  the  eighth  meeting  of  the 
Global Forum on Migration and Development in October 
this year. There we will discuss the implementation of 
the  migration-related  targets  and  indicators  included 
in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The  new 
Agenda  supports  the  implementation  of  the  relevant 
programmes  of  action, 
the  Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries.  As  the 
co-Chair  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Least  Developed 
Countries,  Turkey  will  continue  its  strong  support  to 
the least developed countries.
including 
We  will  host  the  mid-term  review  meeting  of  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action in June of 2016. We count 
on the support of United Nations Member States for the 
success of this meeting. Turkey has also offered to host 
the  proposed  Technology  Bank  for  Least  Developed 
Countries and the science, technology and innovation 
supporting  mechanism  dedicated  to  those  countries. 
We are looking forward to the report of the High-level 
Panel of Experts, which will advise on organizational 
and  operational  aspects  of  the  proposed  Technology 
Bank.
Crucially,  the  2030  Agenda  recognizes  what  we 
have been witnessing for years: sustainable development 
cannot  be  realized  without  peace  and  security,  and 
peace and security will be at risk without sustainable 
development.  The  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  Middle 
East is a case in point, for it is a humanitarian tragedy 
caused  by  oppression,  as  well  as  lack  of  security  and 
stability.  We  are  hosting  more  than  2  million  Syrians 
in  Turkey,  960,000  of  whom  are  children.  For  those 
The real measure of our success with respect to the 
new  and  ambitious  Development  Agenda  will  be  the 
concrete  steps  we  take  in  the  implementation  phase. 
That is why there must be a paradigm shift, in order to 
unlock the resources needed to finance the Sustainable 
Development Goals. The 2030 Agenda provides some 
of  the  answers  to  that  question,  by  incorporating 
certain  necessary  means  of  implementation.  Those 
means  are  complemented  by  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
15-29253
25/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
Combating 
climate 
change 
Agenda,  which  was  adopted  at  the  Third  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development.  The  outcome  of  the 
twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, to be held in Paris in December, will 
add  another  link  to  the  chain.  Those  three  outcome 
documents will establish the framework of the Global 
Development Agenda for the next 15 years.
and 
achieving 
sustainable  development  are  closely  linked.  We,  in 
Turkey,  will  integrate  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals and targets into our national development plans.
With respect to the Group of 20 (G-20), Turkey has 
placed development at the centre of its G-20 presidency 
agenda  for  2015.  Promoting  the  integration  of  low-
income  developing  countries  into  the  world  economy 
is  one  of  its  top  G-20  presidency  priorities.  We  have 
worked  very  hard  to  ensure  close  alignment  between 
the  G-20  agenda  and  global  sustainable  development 
efforts  to  end  poverty,  hunger  and  inequality  and  to 
promote  infrastructure  investments,  food  security, 
access  to  energy,  youth  employment,  gender  equality 
and  inclusive  economic  growth,  while  protecting 
the  planet.  The  G-20  is  working  to  assist  low-income 
developing countries.
Official development assistance (ODA) remains key 
to  supporting  development  efforts  in  many  countries, 
particularly  the  least  developed  countries.  As  an 
emerging donor, Turkey has expanded the geographical 
scope  of  its  development  cooperation  and  steadily 
increased the amount of its ODA in recent years, which 
has increased from $967 million in 2010 to $3.5 billion 
in  2014.  That  amount  corresponds  to  0.45  per  cent  of 
our  gross  national  income,  and  we  are  committed  to 
further  increasing  our  contributions.  Yet,  enhanced 
cooperation between the public and the private sector 
to support sustainable development is also critical. That 
is why the Turkish G-20 presidency has made the role 
of  the  private  sector  in  development  —  with  a  focus 
on inclusive business — part of the G-20 development 
agenda. We will continue to encourage efforts in that 
direction.  At  the  G-20  Summit  that  Turkey  will  host 
in Antalya this November, G-20 leaders will discuss in 
detail  the  Group’s  contribution  to  the  implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda.
Actions speak louder than words. We, the leaders 
of nations from across the world, have come together to 
adopt the 2030 Agenda in this august setting. It is a very 
important step that lifts humankind’s hopes for a better 
future, one in which no one is left behind. Today, we are 
making a pledge to future generations, and it is only by 
working together that we can honour that pledge. We, 
in Turkey, are resolved to make our contribution and to 
fulfil our commitment.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Turkey for his statement.
Mr.  Ahmet  Davutoğlu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  At  this  point,  I  should 
like to inform delegations that we will now hear brief 
presentations  by  the  co-Chairs  of  the  interactive 
dialogues.
I now give the floor to the co-Chair of interactive 
dialogue  I,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miro  Cerar,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr.  Cerar  (co-Chair  of  interactive  dialogue  I):  I 
have the honour to present, on behalf of Mr. Ralph E. 
Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, and myself, the summary of deliberations 
from  interactive  dialogue  I,  on  ending  poverty  and 
hunger.
We noted that ending poverty is a matter of human 
dignity.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  an 
important catalyst for the significant progress made in 
reducing  poverty  and  hunger  globally.  However,  that 
progress  has  been  deeply  uneven.  Too  many  are  still 
poor and undernourished, and poverty persists in every 
country. Eradicating poverty and hunger and leaving no 
one behind will require a multidimensional perspective 
that addresses their social, economic and environmental 
drivers.  We  must  also  tackle  inequality  and  systemic 
and structural issues. Ending poverty and hunger can 
be achieved only by addressing interconnected factors 
such as inclusive growth, livelihoods and employment, 
access  to  basic  infrastructure  and  services,  food 
security,  nutrition,  health  care,  education,  greater 
equality,  improved  agricultural  productivity  and  the 
sustainable use of natural resources. We also highlight 
the important role of social protection schemes.
Economic growth is necessary but not sufficient if 
we are to accelerate the reduction of poverty and hunger. 
Future  prosperity  will  also  require  that  economic 
growth  no  longer  degrades  the  environment.  Climate 
change must be halted. We emphasize the importance 
of  national  ownership  and  political  commitment, 
26/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
citizen  engagement,  effective  fiscal  policies,  an 
integrated  and  coherent  approach  to  policymaking, 
adequate  resources, 
the  monitoring  of  progress, 
and  accountability  and  transparency.  We  also  need 
increased  participation  in  global  decision-making  by 
developing countries. There is a need for financing and 
investment  from  a  range  of  actors,  including  national 
and  regional  development  banks,  the  private  sector 
and other institutional investors, such as pension funds 
and insurance companies. It is also important to raise 
additional  resources  through,  for  example,  improved 
national tax systems and innovative financing sources.
Investing in the health and education of women and 
girls  is  crucial.  Employment  and  inclusion  for  young 
people should receive priority attention. Marginalized 
groups should be included in decision-making processes. 
Peaceful and just societies are a necessary precondition 
for  sustainable  development.  Many  conflicts  are 
driven by poverty, hunger and hopelessness. We noted 
that  reversals  in  development  gains  could  be  avoided 
by  building  resilience  to  shocks  and  disasters  and 
will  require  appropriate  risk-management  plans  and 
strategies, 
together  with  strong  social-protection 
frameworks.  Lastly,  we  stressed  the  importance  of 
strengthening  the  global  partnership  for  development 
at both the national and international levels.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
co-Chair  of  interactive  dialogue  II,  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Croatia.
(co-Chair 
President  Grabar-Kitarović 
of 
interactive dialogue II): On behalf of President Uhuru 
Kenyatta  of  Kenya  and  myself,  I  have  the  honour  to 
present the summary of deliberations from interactive 
dialogue  II,  on  tackling  inequalities,  empowering 
women and girls and leaving no one behind.
women,  who  make  up  half  of  the  world’s  population. 
Addressing  gender  equality  is  key  and  will  have  a 
multiplier  effect  in  achieving  all  the  Goals.  While 
acknowledging  the  significant  progress  that  has  been 
made  in  advancing  gender  equality,  our  discussions 
highlighted  some  of  the  areas  that  will  need  further 
action.
First,  universal  access  to  quality  education  for 
girls  must  be  reached  through  every  means  possible 
in  the  given  time  frame.  Secondly,  women  must  be 
given  equal  opportunities  in  the  economic  sphere, 
including  at  the  workplace.  Thirdly,  we  must  ensure 
greater  representation  of  women  in  political  positions 
and leadership. Fourthly, violence against women must 
be  eliminated  and  investments  made  in  sexual  and 
reproductive health.
We  agreed  that  tackling  inequalities  requires  not 
just changes in policies and laws but also strengthened 
capacities  and  empowerment  at  the  community  level. 
The  most  marginalized,  including  rural,  indigenous, 
disabled and older people, must have equal opportunities 
and access to resources, and they must also be given a 
voice. A sustainable world should give every person a 
fair  chance.  The  humanitarian  crisis  that  the  world  is 
facing today, and particularly the situation of migrants 
and  refugees,  reminds  us  that  we  must  prioritize  the 
needs  of  the  most  vulnerable.  We  are  all  accountable 
for  ensuring  that  the  2030  Agenda  is  taken  forward. 
We  need  the  right  data,  new  technologies  and  broad 
partnerships. Above all, we need sustained political will 
if  we  are  to  reach  our  common  objective  of  ensuring 
dignity and equal opportunities for all.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I now give the floor to the 
co-Chair  of  interactive  dialogue  III,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  calls  unprecedented  attention  to  the 
need  to  reduce  inequalities  both  within  and  among 
nations.  Only  by  doing  so  can  we  build  a  world  that 
is  more  just,  stable  and  peaceful.  We  agreed  that 
translating the Agenda’s Goals and targets into national 
policies  and  programmes  is  a  commitment  that  will 
mobilize us all for the next 15 years.
Mr.  Michel  (co-Chair  of  interactive  dialogue  III) 
(spoke in French): On behalf of Sheikh Hasina, Prime 
Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and 
myself,  I  have  the  honour  to  present  the  summary  of 
deliberations from interactive dialogue III, on fostering 
viable economic growth and structural transformation 
and promoting sustainable modes of consumption and 
production.
The  2030  Agenda  is  ambitious.  It  encompasses 
all  human  rights  and  aims  to  eliminate  all  forms  of 
discrimination. We recognized that the Goals cannot be 
achieved unless progress includes everyone, especially 
Our  discussions  affirmed  that  prosperity  has 
increased and many people have emerged from poverty. 
However, a great deal remains to be done, particularly 
for the world’s most vulnerable. Continuing to reduce 
15-29253
27/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
inequalities, 
to 
increasing  access 
the  scourge  of  poverty,  tackling  the  structural  causes 
of 
justice  and 
respecting  human  rights  are  still  major  priorities.  We 
also highlighted the fact that balanced, viable economic 
growth  is  essential  to  reducing  poverty  and  ensuring 
sustainable  development.  We  will  have  to  pursue 
those  goals  despite  the  numerous  current  and  future 
challenges facing the world.
We  also  recognize  that  growth  without  creating 
jobs, increased inequality of wealth, and unemployment 
among  young  people  are  concerns  all  over  the  world. 
Promoting decent jobs, workers’ rights and developing 
social  protections  that  include  a  minimum  threshold 
would seem to be the keys to just and more inclusive 
societies.  In  order  for  our  economies  to  be  inclusive, 
we  should  also  aim  at  achieving  equality  between 
women  and  men.  Investing  in  women’s  health  and 
education, eliminating sexual violence and promoting 
entrepreneurship for women are essential to achieving 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Structural  and 
technological  reforms 
to  our 
economies  are  necessary  to  develop  a  system  of 
international  commerce  in  which  exchanges  are  more 
technologically intensive and have greater value added 
and more productivity, and where there is full integration 
for everybody. Connectivity and access to the Internet, 
as  well  as  the  strengthening  of  institutions,  are  also 
keys  to  accelerate  this  transformation.  Strengthening 
regional  and  international  trade  appears  essential  for 
sustainable  development.  Access  to  markets  and  to 
technology is fundamental for integration into the global 
economy. We must invest more, particularly in Africa, 
in  such  sectors  as  renewable  energy,  infrastructure 
and  transport  and  agriculture.  We  also  believe  that 
domestic and foreign investment must be stimulated. In 
that regard, new partnerships between the private and 
public sectors should be better defined.
Finally, we must uncouple economic growth, on the 
one hand, and degradation of the environment, on the 
other, and combat climate change so that we can better 
protect  future  generations.  We  must  accelerate  a  real 
transition to sustainable lifestyles, which requires that 
we change our consumption patterns and make better 
use of our precious resources.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  two 
Co-Chairs  of  this  historic  Summit.  I  would  also  like 
to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who during 
the entire process has been a driving force and a great 
inspiration to us all. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) is now adopted. We need 
to get down to work.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
co-Chair  of  interactive  dialogue  V,  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Michelle Bachelet Jeria, President of the Republic 
of Chile.
President Bachelet Jeria (co-Chair of interactive 
dialogue  V):  On  behalf  of  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Park 
Geun-hye,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  and 
myself,  I  have  the  honour  to  present  the  summary  of 
deliberations from interactive dialogue V, on “Building 
effective,  accountable  and  inclusive  institutions  to 
achieve sustainable development”.
There was a strong sentiment during the dialogue 
that  effective,  accountable  and  inclusive  institutions 
that are transparent and free of corruption are essential 
prerequisites  for  our  common  vision  for  sustainable 
development.  While  Goal  16  is  important  in  its  own 
right, it facilitates and accelerates the success of all the 
other Goals.
We  agreed  that  the  increased  involvement  of 
citizens  is  needed  in  order  to  create  full  ownership 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1).  That  can  be  achieved  only  through 
high-quality  education,  non-discrimination,  gender 
equality and access to justice and information, as well 
as reliable and timely data, and it must include the most 
vulnerable and marginalized groups. It should uphold 
the  highest  standards  of  human  rights  and  freedoms. 
The full engagement of citizens will also help to build a 
bridge between the poor and the rich, men and women, 
urban and rural constituencies and provide an enabling 
environment  for  all  people.  That  will  be  essential 
in  promoting  integrity  and  building  trust  between 
Governments and citizens.
We  acknowledge  that  strong  institutions  based 
on  the  rule  of  law  are  essential  for  building  peaceful 
societies  where  people  live  free  from  fear  and  want. 
A culture of justice needs to be created and upheld to 
empower all people, including the most marginalized. 
A precondition for the implementation of Goal 16 and 
all other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is the 
breaking  down  of  silos  through  building  partnership 
across sectors and among all stakeholders.
We concur that the SDGs must be integrated into 
national  plans  and  strategies,  supported  by  sound 
28/30 
15-29253
27/09/2015 
A/70/PV.11
monitoring  and  review  frameworks.  The  important 
role  of  Parliaments  and  local  authorities  needs  to  be 
recognized  and  enhanced.  Partnerships  and  a  stable 
environment  provided  through  strong  institutions  are 
necessary  for  vibrant  private-sector  engagement  and 
domestic and international resource mobilization. Full 
gender  equality  needs  to  be  achieved  and  women’s 
potential must be unlocked.
Young  people  are  the  prime  beneficiaries  of 
peaceful States and societies. Children and youth living 
in  conflict  are  often  the  most  immediate  victims  of 
violence and displacement. We owe it to them to create 
a peaceful, just and prosperous world.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdoulaye  Balde,  Minister  of 
Environment  and  Sustainable  Development  of  the 
Republic of Senegal and representative of the co-Chair 
of interactive dialogue VI.
Mr.  Balde  (co-Chair  of 
interactive  dialogue 
VI)  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of  Mr.  Macky  Sall, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and of Mr. Ahmet 
Davutoğlu, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, I 
have the honour to present the summary of interactive 
dialogue VI, entitled “Delivering on a revitalized global 
partnership”.
The  discussions  on 
topic  of  partnership 
took  place  in  a  friendly  environment,  with  relevant 
recommendations  regarding  the  following  convergent 
points.
the 
In noting that reaching the Sustainable Development 
Goals will depend on a revitalized global partnership, 
we agreed that it should be universal and relevant for 
all, while meeting the needs of the most vulnerable and 
in  leaving  no  one  behind.  All  the  stakeholders  must 
be  committed,  and  the  needs  of  present  and  future 
generations  taken  into  account.  We  emphasized  the 
need  to  mobilize  financial  resources  —  public  and 
private, national and international — and technologies, 
as well as the need to strengthen capacity-building for 
sustainable development.
in  particular  for 
Official  development  assistance  (ODA)  remains 
critical, 
the  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable  countries.  A  major  role  will  be  played 
by 
the 
strengthening  of  international  cooperation  in  fiscal 
matters  and  combating  illicit  financial  flows,  as  well 
as by viable policies, private investment and effective 
the  mobilization  of  national 
resources, 
partnerships. We called for immediate compliance with 
our  commitments  regarding  ODA  and  in  other  areas. 
We  also  emphasized  the  importance  of  development 
cooperation that will be effective, predictable, country-
specific and results-based.
We  agreed  that  consistent  policies  with  regard  to 
financing,  trade,  debt  and  technology  were  necessary 
for  sustainable  development.  We  emphasized 
the 
importance of good governance and the rule of law, of 
a healthy environment and the fight against corruption, 
as well as independence for women and girls, without 
forgetting young people.
Mindful that we have to adapt the global objectives 
to the local level, we emphasized the need to take them 
into  account  in  concrete  national  development  plans, 
elaborated after open consultations with civil society, 
in  order  to  guide  national  policies  and  international 
cooperation  for  development.  The  capacities  of  local 
stakeholders  must  be  strengthened,  and  access  to 
financial services broadened.
We  also  highlighted  the  contributions  of  regional 
institutions,  which  are  a  framework  for  exchanging 
experiences and know-how. We agreed on the need to 
establish  innovate  partnerships  among  Governments, 
business  and  civil  society  so  as  to  benefit  from  all 
resources  and  skills  available.  We  recognized  that 
public  policy  and  public  finance  can  contribute  to 
the  mobilization  of  private  investment  favouring  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  also  stressed 
the  importance  of  accessible  and  transparent  data  to 
ensure  the  follow-up  of  progress,  the  assessment  of 
policies and the accountability of all stakeholders. We 
emphasized the need to adopt innovative, effective and 
inclusive approaches for follow-up and evaluation. We 
must mobilize all stakeholders and create a space which 
is conducive to the participation of civil society, while 
encouraging mutual learning in our common activities 
in implementing the Sustainable Development Goals.
That is a summary of the main ideas that we thought 
we should present as conclusions or recommendations 
from our work.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  We  will  now  move  to  the 
last  brief  presentation  of  the  interactive  dialogues. 
I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  thank  all  the 
co-Chairs for their great work.
15-29253
29/30
A/70/PV.11 
27/09/2015
I  give  the  floor  to  the  co-Chair  of  interactive 
dialogue IV, His Excellency Mr. Ollanta Humala Tasso, 
President of the Republic of Peru.
President Humala Tasso (co-Chair of interactive 
dialogue  IV)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the 
French  Republic,  and  on  my  own  behalf,  I  have  the 
honour  to  present  a  summary  of  deliberations  that 
took  place  during  interactive  dialogue  IV,  entitled 
“Protecting our planet and combating climate change”.
Climate change is one of our major challenges. The 
negative  impacts  of  climate  change  are  challenging 
development  and  the  possibilities  of  progress  in  all 
areas of our economies and societies. In order to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  we  must  ensure 
a  high  level  of  consistency  between  the  responses  to 
climate change and the eradication of poverty. We need 
integrated  actions  for  the  sustainable  use  of  natural 
resources  and  the  management  of  the  biodiversity  of 
our  forests,  land,  mountains,  oceans  and  seas.  Only 
in that way will we be able to respond to the growing 
demand  for  food,  water  and  energy.  It  is  essential  to 
ensure  that  women,  indigenous  peoples  and  other 
vulnerable groups have equitable access to land, forests 
and fisheries, among other things.
It is essential to ensure that we be able to limit the 
increase of the temperature to between 1.5°C and 2°C. 
The  only  way  to  limit  the  increase  in  temperature  is 
through  decarbonizing  the  economy.  That  must  be  a 
priority  in  those  countries  with  the  highest  emissions 
of  greenhouse  gasses.  Transition  towards  renewable 
energy sources is particularly important for improving 
efficiency  in  the  way  we  use  energy  and  natural 
resources.
We  heard  very  clearly 
the  magnitude  of 
to  which  developing  countries  are 
vulnerability 
exposed  —  countries  such  as  Peru,  but  primarily  the 
small island developing States and the least developed 
countries. The losses incurred because of the increase 
in the frequency and violence of natural disasters have 
high costs for our populations and the economies of our 
countries. Adapting to climate change requires a greater 
international effort in the form of financial resources, 
the transfer of sustainable and clean technologies, and 
capacity-building.  Greater  international  cooperation 
must be geared primarily towards the least developed 
countries  and  small  island  developing  States.  We 
must  strengthen  the  contributions  of  all  stakeholders, 
specifically  the  private  sector,  at  all  levels  —  the 
global, regional and national — and, as far as possible, 
establish a carbon price to guide investment decisions 
towards low-carbon economies.
Several countries reported that they had ambitious 
national  plans  to  reduce  greenhouse-gas  emissions 
and  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  climate  change.  The 
presentation of those plans by all countries before the 
Paris Conference will be a good sign for the negotiations 
that  we  will  conclude  in  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  (COP21)  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
in  December  in  Paris.  We  have  high  expectations  for 
the outcome of COP21. We were able to conclude that 
the  general  will  is  to  reach  a  global,  ambitious  and 
legally binding agreement, with the goal of limiting the 
temperature  increase  to  between  1.5°C  and  2°C.  That 
will  be  the  acid  test  of  our  collective  commitment  as 
nations and societies towards achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
I  believe  that  today  humankind  has  before  it  an 
opportunity  to  build  the  biggest  and  most  powerful 
partnership in the planet’s history in the fight against 
climate change and rising temperatures.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
30/30 
15-29253
