United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
52nd plenary meeting
Friday, 13 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 15, 116 and 123 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
The President: In connection with agenda items 15 
and 116, members will recall that the Assembly held the 
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the post-2015 
development agenda at its 4th to 11th plenary meetings, 
from 25 to 27 September, and adopted resolution 70/1, 
entitled “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development”, at its 4th plenary meeting, 
on 25 September.
Mr.  González  Franco  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Paraguay  stresses  the 
importance of the implementation and comprehensive 
and  integrated  follow-up  of  all  decisions  adopted  at 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits. 
They  must  help  us  achieve  the  goals  of  sustainable 
development adopted in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development 
(resolution  70/1).  The  Republic  of 
Paraguay  believes  that  no  one  must  be  left  behind  in 
our efforts to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable 
development, as manifested in its economic, social and 
environmental aspects. In order to achieve those goals, 
we must take into account the specific circumstances of 
all countries, especially the most vulnerable. 
In  that  regard,  my  country’s  delegation  stresses 
the  progress  achieved  by  and  outcomes  of  all  the 
major  conferences  and  summits  of  United  Nations 
organizations, in particular the second United Nations 
Conference on Landlocked Developing Countries, the 
third  United  Nations  World  Conference  on  Disaster 
Risk  Reduction,  the  third  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development, the third International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States  and 
the  United  Nations  Summit  to  adopt  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  in  addition  to  other  instruments 
recently adopted within the international framework. 
The  delegation  of  Paraguay  underscores 
its 
readiness to actively contribute to the processes under 
way,  aimed  at  the  adoption  of  documents  resulting 
from the twenty-first session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  —  in  which  we  must  recognize 
all  the  vulnerabilities  of  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  to  climate  change,  such  as  desertification, 
droughts  and  floods  —  and  the  World  Summit  on 
the  Information  Society,  as  well  as  the  review  of  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2011-2020.
In  that  regard,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact 
that,  while  every  country  faces  specific  challenges 
in  its  quest  for  sustainable  development,  particular 
attention must be paid to the most vulnerable countries, 
such  as  landlocked  developing  countries.  The  Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action for Landlocked 
Developing  Countries  is  particularly  relevant  in  that 
respect. From a pragmatic point of view, the delegation 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-36475 (E)
*1536475*
A/70/PV.52 
13/11/2015
of  Paraguay  stresses  the  urgent  need  to  develop 
and  improve  the  systems  for  collecting,  analysing 
and  disseminating  data  through  the  implementation 
of  appropriate  processes 
for  producing  official, 
comparable and reliable information for the successful 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Vienna 
Programme  of  Action,  as  well  as  other  international 
framework instruments. 
Accomplishing  those  goals  will  be  possible  only 
if  our  capacities  and  potential  are  all  complemented, 
supported  and  strengthened  by  all  participants  in  the 
world alliance for sustainable development. Similarly, 
regarding  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme 
of  Action  for  Landlocked  Developing  Countries,  my 
country’s delegation calls on all landlocked countries, 
transit countries, their development partners, the United 
Nations  system  and  all  other  actors  to  implement  at 
all  levels,  in  a  coordinated  and  coherent  manner  and 
without  delay,  the  measures  that  have  been  approved 
in  the  six  priority  areas  of  the  Vienna  Programme  of 
Action.
Finally,  I  reiterate  the  firm  commitment  of  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay  to  ensuring 
the coordinated and comprehensive implementation of 
the decisions adopted at the conferences and summits 
of the United Nations.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda items 15, 116 
and 123.
Agenda item 114 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/70/539)
The  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary  Questions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning  on  1  January  2016:  Mr.  Ihor  Humennyi 
(Ukraine),  Mr.  Conrad  Hunte  (Antigua  and  Barbuda), 
Mr. Eihab Omaish (Jordan), Mr. Babou Sene (Senegal) 
and Mr. Tesfa Alem Seyoum (Eritrea).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Ihor  Humennyi,  Mr.  Conrad  Hunte, 
Mr.  Eihab  Omaish,  Mr.  Babou  Sene  and  Mr.  Tesfa 
Alem Seyoum as members of the Advisory Committee 
on  Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2016?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/70/540)
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term of 
office beginning on 1 January 2016: Mr. Syed Yawar Ali 
(Pakistan), Ms. Jasminka Dinić (Croatia), Mr. Edward 
Faris  (United  States  of  America),  Mr.  Toshiro  Ozawa 
(Japan),  Mr.  Tõnis  Saar  (Estonia)  and  Mr.  Josiel 
Motumisi Tawana (South Africa).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Syed  Yawar  Ali,  Ms.  Jasminka  Dinić, 
Mr. Edward Faris, Mr. Toshiro Ozawa, Mr. Tõnis Saar 
and  Mr.  Josiel  Motumisi  Tawana  as  members  of  the 
Committee  on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2016?
It was so decided.
(d) Appointment of a member of the Board 
of Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/70/541)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends 
in paragraph 4 of its report that the General Assembly 
appoint  the  German  Supreme  Audit  Institution  as  a 
member of the Board of Auditors for a six-year term of 
office beginning on 1 July 2016.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint the German Supreme Audit Institution as a 
member of the Board of Auditors for a six-year term of 
office beginning on 1 July 2016?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
sub-items (a), (b) and (d) of agenda item 114?
2/3 
15-36475
13/11/2015 
It was so decided.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
consider  the  reports  of  the  Fifth  Committee  under 
agenda items 135 and 137. If there is no proposal under 
rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the 
General Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of 
the Fifth Committee which are before it today.
It was so decided.
The  President:  Statements  will 
therefore  be 
limited  to  explanations  of  vote.  The  positions  of 
delegations regarding the recommendations of the Fifth 
Committee have been made clear in the Committee and 
are reflected in the relevant official records.
May  I  remind  members  that  under  paragraph  7 
of  decision  34/401,  the  General  Assembly  agreed  that 
when the same draft resolution is considered in a Main 
Committee  and  in  a  plenary  meeting,  a  delegation 
should as far as possible explain its vote only once, that 
is, either in the Committee or in the plenary meeting, 
unless that delegation’s vote in the plenary meeting is 
different from its vote in the Committee.
May  I  further  remind  delegations  that,  also  in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401, 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
Before I begin to take action on the recommendations 
contained in the report of the Fifth Committee, I should 
like  to  advise  representatives  that  we  are  going  to 
proceed  to  take  decisions  in  the  same  manner  as  was 
A/70/PV.52
done in the Fifth Committee unless notified otherwise 
in advance.
Agenda item 135
Programme planning
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/70/439)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Assembly will now take 
a decision on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee 
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 70/8).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 135.
Agenda item 137
Pattern of conferences
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/70/450)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Fifth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 70/9).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 137.
The meeting rose at 10.20 a.m.
15-36475
3/3
