United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
26th plenary meeting
Friday, 2 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Mejía  Vélez 
(Colombia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on His Highness 
Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Al Nahyan (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): It is my pleasure to congratulate Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session,  and  to  affirm  that 
the United Arab Emirates stands ready to provide the 
fullest support during his presidency.
This year’s session is of particular significance as it 
marks the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations 
and  the  commencement  of  a  new  chapter  that  builds 
on  the  achievements  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  through  the  adoption  by  our  Heads 
of  State  and  Government  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). My country 
welcomes  this  ambitious  agenda  and  believes  that  it 
will transform the world over the next 15 years. 
The United Arab Emirates is deeply worried by the 
upsurge of violence due to active extremist actions in 
my region that undermines its stability. Terrorist crimes 
have surged in an ugly manner unseen since the end of 
the Second World War, committed by the Islamic State 
of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Hezbullah, Al-Qaida and 
other groups that exploit religion for political purposes. 
We condemn the brutal methods used by these groups 
in the name of Islam. They have no connection with the 
tolerant teachings of Islam, which calls for coexistence 
and tolerance.
Our  principled  position,  as  we  stand  shoulder  to 
shoulder with the people and Government of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt, is based on our firm belief that the 
stability and prosperity of Egypt reinforces the stability 
of  our  region.  The  recent  political  and  economic 
achievements  of  the  Government  of  Egypt  are  major 
steps  towards  its  recovery  and  positively  assist  the 
recovery and stability of the region and restore Egypt’s 
pivotal  and  historic  role  in  the  region.  We  commend 
Al-Azhar  University  for  its  long-standing  tradition  in 
confronting  extremist  ideologies,  and  the  role  of  its 
scholars  in  renewing  the  religious  discourse.  We  call 
on the international community to provide Egypt with 
the  fullest  support  in  its  fight  against  extremism  and 
terrorism.
My  country’s  is  participating  in  the  coalition 
supporting  the  legitimate  Government  of  Yemen  in 
response  to  the  request  by  the  President  of  Yemen  to 
provide  the  necessary  support  to  the  Government 
and people of Yemen in confronting the Houthi coup, 
and  combating  other 
terrorist  organizations  such 
as  Al-Qaida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  and  ISIL  that 
have  exploited  the  chaotic  and  unstable  conditions  in 
Yemen and increased their terrorist acts. We seek, with 
the  international  community,  to  restore  the  political 
process  in  Yemen  in  accordance  with  the  agreed 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29822 (E)
*1529822*
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
parameters,  most  importantly  the  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council initiative and its Implementation Mechanism. 
To  this  end,  it  is  important  to  ensure  full  compliance 
with  Security  Council  resolution  2216  (2015),  which 
was adopted after consultations with relevant States of 
the region.
the 
This  process  underscores 
importance  of 
improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  by  involving  affected  States  and  regional 
organizations  in  accordance  with  Chapter  VIII  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  will  enhance 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization  and  contribute 
significantly to improving the implementation of United 
Nations  resolutions  and  the  prevention  of  conflicts. 
We  commend  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  Yemen.  We  affirm  our  continued  support 
for  the  Arab  coalition  led  by  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia and its commitment to enhancing the capacity 
of  the  Yemeni  people  to  restore  stability.  We  regard 
the liberation of Aden from the Houthi rebels to be a 
military and humanitarian victory, with Aden now the 
logistical base for delivering vital humanitarian aid to 
the Yemeni people.
To alleviate the humanitarian situation in Yemen, we 
have provided assistance worth more than $200 million. 
We  will  continue  to  work  with  the  United  Nations 
to  deliver  aid  to  meet  the  humanitarian  emergency 
needs  of  the  neediest  people.  We  believe  that  the  full 
control of Bab Al-Mandab by the coalition forces is yet 
another military success in securing that vital sea lane. 
It marks the end of the control of the rebels and their 
ISIL supporters, while demonstrating their weakening 
presence in other strategic areas in Yemen.
We  are  deeply  concerned  regarding  the  ongoing 
tension and instability in Libya, which represent a major 
threat to security and stability in the region. We stress 
the  need  to  lift  the  ban  imposed  on  the  capacities  of 
the elected Libyan Government to fight ISIL and other 
terrorist organizations and to respond to transboundary 
threats.
We are increasingly concerned about the inability 
of  the  international  community  to  reach  a  political 
settlement  of  the  Syrian  crisis  and  put  an  end  to  the 
violence and systematic mass atrocities committed by 
the Syrian regime against its own people, which have 
resulted in the displacement of millions of Syrians and 
the destruction of their properties. The crisis has also 
had  serious  humanitarian  consequences  on  affected 
neighbouring  countries  and  created  a  political  and 
security  vacuum  exploited  by  terrorist  organizations, 
especially  ISIL  and  the  Al-Nusra  Front.  The  Security 
Council must therefore fulfil its principal mandate and 
reach a consensus on a settlement of the Syrian crisis 
so asto ensure a political transition and the formation 
of a new Government incorporating all components of 
Syrian  society.  We  also  stress  the  importance  of  the 
ongoing  delivery  of  humanitarian  aid  to  the  Syrian 
people by the international community.
We  affirm  our  humanitarian  commitment 
to 
supporting  the  Syrian  people  and  alleviating  their 
suffering.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  conflict,  we 
have received more than 100,000 Syrian nationals and 
extended  humanitarian  and  development  assistance 
totalling  more  than  $530  million.  The  Syrian  and 
Libyan crises have demonstrated the heavy human and 
political  toll  that  we  are  seeing  every  day,  especially 
through  the  suffering  of  women  and  children  in  their 
mass  exodus  as  they  search  for  safe  havens  and  safe 
livelihoods, and the heavy price paid by refugees who 
have lost their lives in tragic conditions. The barbaric 
acts of destruction committed by terrorist organizations 
against historical symbols and sites have also revealed 
the considerable loss caused to our human and cultural 
heritage.
As  it  has  done  in  Syria,  ISIL  has  exploited  the 
unstable  conditions  and  sectarian  practices  to  further 
hostilities  and  violence  among  the  Iraqi  factions 
and  destroy  Iraq’s  historical  and  cultural  heritage. 
Therefore,  we  continue  to  stand  in  solidarity  with 
Iraq  and  support  international  efforts  to  combat  that 
terrorist  organization.  We  also  support  the  efforts  of 
the  Iraqi  Government  to  achieve  peace  and  stability 
and end sectarian practices, and stress in this context 
the  importance  of  implementing  reforms  to  ensure 
inclusiveness,  fairness  and  equality  for  all  segments 
and components of Iraqi society. For its part the United 
Arab  Emirates  will  continue  to  support  humanitarian 
aid programmes to help the people affected by conflict. 
It has become evident that the salvation of our region 
lies  in  building  inclusive  nations  free  from  sectarian 
or  religious  affiliations  used  by  parties  for  political 
purposes and which have led to chaos and bloodshed. 
We are fully aware of the consequences of failing 
to  take  firm  measures  to  prevent  extremist  and 
terrorist organizations from pursuing their destructive 
endeavours, especially in the Horn of Africa, as we have 
seen  done  by  exploiting  those  who  do  not  share  their 
2/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
views. We commend the efforts of the Government of 
Somalia  and  its  efforts  to  fight  Al-Shabaab.  We  urge 
them  to  continue  taking  the  necessary  measures  to 
restore stability and peace and reiterate our support for 
such  efforts  to  achieve  that  objective.  Therefore,  we 
stress the need to intensify and pool our efforts in order 
to combat the threats of these organizations wherever 
they  are,  and  to  address  the  root  causes  of  radical 
ideologies before they turn into violent extremism.
We  have  been  committed  to  supporting  regional 
and  international  efforts,  including  those  aimed  at 
combating ISIL. We have also contributed to hosting the 
Hedayah Centre to assist the international community 
in building capacities and exchanging best practices to 
counter all forms of extremism. We also host the Global 
Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies with 
a  view  to  spreading  a  culture  of  tolerance  and  peace 
and  promoting  convergence  between  faiths.  Recently, 
with  the  assistance  of  the  United  States,  we  launched 
the Sawab Centre in order to counter the social media 
messaging of ISIL and to allow moderate voices to reach 
the millions of people who reject terrorist practices and 
the  misleading  conceptions  promoted  by  Daesh  and 
other terrorist groups.
We  believe  that  the  security  and  stability  of  the 
States  of  the  region  depend  on  positive  cooperation 
among its various agencies, which must adopt as their 
fundamental  principle  respect  for  sovereignty  and 
non-interference in internal affairs. With regard to the 
statement made by the President of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran (see A/70/PV.13), we believe that Iran’s record 
does not qualify it to speak about the safety of the Hajj 
pilgrims.  We  support  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia 
and reject all efforts aimed at interfering in its internal 
affairs.
We reject Iran’s continued occupation of the three 
United Arab Emirates islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser 
Tunb  and  Abu  Musa,  and  call  on  Iran  to  return  these 
islands.  All  actions  and  measures  carried  out  by  the 
Iranian authorities are contrary to international law and 
all norms and common values. We call on Iran to reach 
a  just  settlement  of  this  issue  either  through  serious 
direct  negotiations  between  our  two  countries  or  by 
referring the issue to the International Court of Justice.
Despite all these challenges, the Palestinian issue 
remains at the core of conflict in our region, and one of 
the main threats to its security and stability. Moreover, 
the feelings of injustice and frustration resulting from 
the  continued  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Palestinian 
territories  and  the  flagrant  human  rights  violations 
committed by the occupation forces provide extremist 
groups  with  an  opportunity  to  exploit  these  serious 
humanitarian  conditions  and  to  spread  their  radical 
thinking and incite frustrated youth to implement their 
destructive agenda.
We call on the international community to seize the 
opportunity of the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations  to  create  effective  international  partnerships 
built on solidarity and a genuine desire to develop our 
countries and achieve security and prosperity for all.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Indonesia.
Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, Vice-President of the 
Republic of Indonesia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Muhammad  Jusuf  Kalla,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Indonesia, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Kalla 
(Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his 
assumption of the presidency of the seventieth session 
of the General Assembly.
It is a great honour for me to stand here and share 
Indonesia’s  perspective  on  this  year’s  session  of  the 
General Assembly, under the timely theme “The United 
Nations at 70: the road ahead for peace, security, and 
human rights”. On its seventieth anniversary the United 
Nations has reached quite a ripe age, the same age as 
the Republic of Indonesia this year. On this occasion I 
wish to highlight three points: the achievements of the 
United Nations in the past 70 years, current challenges, 
and the way forward.
Firstly, the United Nation’s seventieth anniversary 
is a good moment to look back and reflect on its progress 
in  realizing  the  ideals  of  its  Charter.  The  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations has been marked by 
the adoption of the post-2015 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). I should like to take this opportunity to 
convey my sincere appreciation to the United Nations 
15-29822
3/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
Secretary-General for his leadership and steadfastness 
in the process.
Another  success  story  of  the  United  Nations  is 
certainly  its  peacekeeping  operations  which  have 
contributed to maintaining peace and security. Indeed, 
the  United  Nations  has  been  relatively  successful 
in  preventing  and  overcoming  major  global  armed 
conflicts 
the  past  70  years.  Currently,  more 
than  100,000  personnel  are  involved  in  16  ongoing 
peacekeeping operations worldwide. Indonesia is proud 
to be the eleventh largest police and troop contributor 
to United Nations peacekeeping operations with more 
than 2,700 personnel, and yet my country is prepared to 
contribute more in future.
in 
Meanwhile, the establishment of the Human Rights 
Council  in  2006  has  created  a  peer-based  review 
mechanism which reflects the collective efforts among 
Member States to strengthen cooperation and dialogue 
in the promotion and protection of human rights.
Notwithstanding  the  achievements  of  the  United 
Nations, we must not be complacent. Indeed, there are 
still numerous challenges confronting us. As we speak 
there  are  still  numerous  armed  conflicts  throughout 
the  world.  The  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people  is 
still taking place, while the realization of a two-State 
solution is still elusive. The recent conflict in Gaza has 
caused  more  than  2,000  human  casualties,  displacing 
more than 5,000 people.
Sectarian  conflict,  including  the  threat  of  the 
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIS),  continues  to 
threaten  political  stability  and  cause  a  multitude  of 
humanitarian  crises  in  the  Middle  East,  especially  in 
Syria,  Libya,  Yemen  and  elsewhere.  Not  only  have 
violent conflicts torn countries and nations apart, but 
in  Syria  ISIS  has  also  destroyed  remnants  of  a  great 
ancient civilization that is our shared historical legacy.
We  ask  whether  the  United  Nations  has  done 
enough when faced with these unfolding and recurrent 
tragedies? Radicalism, violent extremism and terrorism 
continue to pose serious global threats. Indonesia has 
consistently played its role in addressing these threats, 
including  their  underlying  root  causes,  among  other 
ways  through  interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue,  in 
sharing  best  practices  in  counter-terrorism  as  well  as 
strengthening 
international  cooperation.  Indonesia 
has also set a successful example in resolving conflict 
through  dialogue  and  peaceful  means.  In  August,  we 
commemorated  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  signing 
of  the  Helsinki  Memorandum  of  Understanding  on 
Aceh,  which  ended  about  30  years  of  armed  conflict. 
We  wish  to  recall,  and  once  again  appreciate,  the 
positive  contributions  of  the  European  Union  and  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
through their monitoring missions.
We note with concern that little progress has been 
made in the work of the United Nations Disarmament 
Commission. We still lack the necessary political will 
for  nuclear  disarmament.  Meanwhile,  the  small  arms 
and  light  weapons  trade,  legal  or  otherwise,  is  still  a 
multi-billion dollar industry.
We  are  also  witnessing  the  worst  year  for  human 
displacement and irregular migration since the Second 
World  War  due  to  political  crises,  sectarian  conflicts 
and  other  humanitarian  crises  globally.  In  the  past 
weeks, we have seen a flood of refugees fleeing from 
violence  in  Syria  —  where  well  over  100,000  people 
have  been  killed  —  to  seek  a  safe  haven  in  Europe, 
despite the dangers and hardships they have to endure 
on the way. We also ask: does the United Nations have 
sufficient political will to face these issues? 
Meanwhile, economic disparity, poverty and global 
inequality continue to haunt us. Even today, more than 
800 million people throughout the globe are suffering 
from  severe  undernourishment.  The  rich  nations, 
comprising a mere 20 per cent of the world’s population, 
consume 70 per cent of the world’s resources. In many 
parts  of  the  world,  women,  children,  young  people, 
persons with disabilities, the elderly and people living in 
conflict and emergency situations remain marginalized 
and untouched by the progress in development. Twenty 
years  after  the  first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, we have yet to produce a universal 
agreement on climate change.
In the context of trade, we have yet to see progress 
and  concrete  results  from  the  Doha  development 
agenda  to  support  a  rules-based,  open  and  equitable 
multilateral trading system. The recent Ebola outbreak 
has strongly reminded us of the importance of building 
a strong and resilient health system globally. There are 
many  other  problems  we  are  facing  that  also  need  to 
be addressed, such as intolerance, youth unemployment 
and uncontrolled urbanization. All of these challenges 
are  related  to  the  lack  of  progress  in  United  Nations 
reform.  Therefore,  let  us  join  hands  in  overcoming 
these challenges. Here, the role of regional institutions 
4/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
such as ASEAN should be be further strengthened in 
order to complement the United Nations.
We  must  work  together  in  realizing  peace  and 
prosperity  for  our  peoples.  We  have  to  stop  conflicts 
and  eradicate  global  inequality.  We  have  to  stop 
the  spread  of  radicalism  and  violent  extremism.  We 
urgently need to realize United Nations reform. With its 
current membership of 196 compared to 60 in 1950, the 
United  Nations  system  has  to  be  even  more  inclusive 
to better reflect current global geopolitical conditions. 
With regard to Palestine, we must ensure the birth 
of a sovereign and independent Palestinian State.
We  must  ensure  the  realization  of  the  SDGs  in  a 
timely  manner.  We  hope  that  the  upcoming  climate 
change Conference in Paris will seal the long overdue 
agreement on climate, applicable to all countries, with 
the aim of keeping global warming below 2°C.
We urge the United Nations to work more effectively 
through  partnerships  with  regional  mechanisms  to 
better  address  national  and  regional  challenges.  In 
this  regard,  ASEAN  needs  to  be  even  more  actively 
engaged in United Nations processes in seeking better 
solutions  for  our  global  problems.  And  in  narrowing 
global  disparities,  we  should  encourage  and  support 
the  strengthening  of  South-South  cooperation.  In  this 
context,  Indonesia  will  establish  the  Asian  African 
Centre as a follow-up to the 2015 Asian African Summit 
aimed  at  revitalizing  the  partnership  between  Asian 
and African countries to promote peace and prosperity.
Finally,  let  me  conclude  by  stating  that  the  world 
today  relies  on  the  United  Nations:  to  create  world 
order and peace and equitable prosperity; to guarantee 
security  for  the  global  community;  and  to  fully 
implement the principles of human rights as enshrined 
in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  For  that  purpose  the 
United  Nations  needs  the  support  of  each  and  every 
Member.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice  President  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Jusuf  Kalla,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Albert del Rosario, Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
Mr.  Del  Rosario  (Philippines):  On  behalf  of 
the  Philippine  Government,  I  express  our  warmest 
congratulations to the President on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session.  I  assure  him  of  the  Philippines’  support  of 
his leadership in charting the course for an energized 
United Nations about to embark this historic year on an 
ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  our  plan  of  action  for  our  people, 
planet and prosperity over the next 15 years.
Let  me  also  commend  the  President  for  choosing 
a  theme  that  echoes  the  fundamental  elements  that 
led  to  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations.  This  theme 
is  also  at  the  core  of  Philippine  President  Benigno  S. 
Aquino III’s social contract with the Filipino people.
In 1945 when the United Nations Charter was signed 
in San Francisco, the 51 founding Members, including 
the Philippines, envisaged a future of enduring peace, 
shared  prosperity  and  a  new  era  of  collaboration. 
Seventy  years  later,  we  have  created  a  meeting  place 
of the world, an experiment in world governance, and a 
venue where the universal values of equality, tolerance 
and human dignity prevail.
The  United  Nations  has  become  a  major  forum 
of  nations  that  guarantees  the  dignity  and  worth  of 
every  person.  It  has  evolved  as  the  main  platform  of 
opportunities  to  fight  ignorance,  disease,  poverty, 
injustice  and  extremism.  With  all  the  successes  and 
challenges,  praises  and  pitfalls,  the  United  Nations 
has  not  only  demonstrated  its  resilience,  but  has  also 
affirmed its continuing relevance against the backdrop 
of complex global issues and emerging regional threats 
to peace and security. ape
Today, 
renews 
the  Philippines 
its  steadfast 
commitment  to  the  cause  of  peace  and  sustainable 
development  through  key  priority  areas  and  national 
positions  ranging  from  climate  change  and  the  rule 
of  law,  memberships  in  the  Asia-Pacific  Economic 
Cooperation  (APEC)  Forum  and  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  to  women,  peace  and  security, 
migration  and  human  trafficking,  peacekeeping  and 
United Nations reform.
15-29822
5/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
Two years ago in this very forum (see A/68/PV.22), 
the Philippines outlined the five pillars that form part 
of  the  building  blocks  for  the  new  framework  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as follows: 
first, poverty reduction and social inclusion; secondly, 
environment sustainability, climate change and disaster 
risk management; thirdly, accountable, responsive and 
participatory  governance;  fourthly,  a  fair  and  stable 
order based on the rule of law; and fifthly, peace and 
security.  During  the  process  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  for  the  2030  Agenda,  these  pillars  have 
guided  the  Philippines  in  sharing  its  experiences  in 
pursuing  inclusive  growth,  on  some  lessons  learned 
in  governance  and  on  the  continuing  development 
and  security  challenges  that  we  face  as  an  emerging 
economy.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  the  overall  global  development  architecture  need 
to  emphasize  strengthening  the  pillar  of  resilience. 
The  Philippines  knows  only  too  well  the  urgency  of 
building a climate-resilient economy, being one of the 
most disaster-prone countries in the world and having 
experienced,  almost  two  years  ago,  the  devastating 
impact of super-typhoon Haiyan, the strongest typhoon 
to have made landfall in recorded history.
Given  the  new  normal  of  mega  disasters,  the 
Philippines will continue to play an active role in tackling 
the  issues  of  climate  change,  resiliency  and  disaster 
risk  reduction  and  management.  The  Philippines  is 
the current President of the Climate Vulnerable Forum 
and will promote a meaningful outcome at the twenty-
first session of the Conference of Parties of the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris. The international community must adopt a new, 
legally binding climate agreement that is universal and 
equitable, that ensures a bright and low-carbon future 
for  the  next  generation,  and  that  addresses  the  needs 
of vulnerable States and sectors, particularly the poor, 
women, migrants and indigenous peoples.
On  disaster  risk  reduction  and  management,  the 
Philippines will be guided by the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, which recognizes 
that  the  State  has  the  primary  role  in  disaster  risk 
reduction  and  management.  That 
responsibility, 
however, should be shared with local Government, the 
private sector and other stakeholders. We will support 
initiatives  in  the  United  Nations  that  will  allow  us  to 
work  on  the  four  priorities  of  understanding  disaster 
risk, strengthening risk governance to manage disaster 
risk, investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience, 
and building back better.
On  maritime  disputes  in  the  South  China  Sea, 
the  Philippines  has  long  placed  its  faith  in  the  rules 
and  institutions  that  the  international  community  has 
created to regulate relations among States. International 
law  serves  as  the  great  equalizer  among  States, 
allowing small countries to stand on an equal footing 
with wealthier, more powerful States. International law 
is the tie that binds the community of nations together. 
Without  it,  the  global  order  could  fall  into  anarchy. 
That is why the Philippines, under the administration 
of President Benigno S. Aquino III, has been a strong 
advocate  of  the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law.  With  the 
growing  support  of  the  international  community  in 
peacefully resolving disputes in the South China Sea, 
including through arbitration, the Philippines believes 
that the final outcome of this arbitration process would 
pave the way for a settlement of the maritime disputes.
On our dispute with China, a long-time partner and 
neighbour, we also hope that we will finally see actions 
that  are  consistent  with  Beijing’s  declarations  so  that 
genuine  efforts  to  lower  tensions  in  the  South  China 
Sea can succeed and the peaceful settlement of disputes 
can be obtained.
This  year,  the  Philippines  plays  host  to  APEC 
2015 under the theme: “Building inclusive economies, 
building a better world”. As APEC Chair for the second 
time  since  1996,  the  Philippines  seeks  to  mainstream 
and pursue the following priorities: investing in human 
capital  development;  fostering  small  and  medium 
enterprises’ participation in regional and global markets; 
building  sustainable  and  resilient  communities;  and 
enhancing  the  regional  economic  integration  agenda. 
APEC,  both  as  a  process  and  a  platform,  continues 
to  positively  contribute  to  the  region’s  economic 
environment by promoting legal certainty for trade and 
investment. APEC also complements global efforts to 
address  challenges  to  sustainable  economic  growth 
through the APEC Strategy for Strengthening Quality 
Growth,  which  promotes  synergy  between  APEC’s 
work and the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals.
With  respect  to  ASEAN,  the  10  member  States 
will be integrating their economies by the end of this 
year,  realizing  the  vision  of  one  ASEAN  community. 
We need to ensure that ASEAN and its member States, 
partners  and  secretariat  remain  fully  engaged  in  the 
6/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
United Nations system. Indeed, the partnership between 
ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations  has  been  beneficial 
to  regional  peace  and  stability.  As  we  reaffirmed 
when  ASEAN  met  with  the  Secretary-General  last 
Wednesday  here  in  New  York,  we  are  confident  of 
the  United  Nations  continued  support  for  ASEAN 
centrality and its pillars.
Disarmament  and  non-proliferation  have  become 
more compelling issues for the Philippines, given that 
10 per cent of our population live and work overseas, 
many in hot spots in the Middle East and Africa. The 
Philippines  remains  firm  on  its  position  in  favour  of 
the total and complete elimination of nuclear weapons 
and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  will 
continue to voice our concerns over the humanitarian 
consequences  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  reiterate  the 
need  for  the  balanced  and  immediate  implementation 
of  the  64-point  action  plan  adopted  at  the  2010 
Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which 
was  chaired  by  the  Philippines,  particularly  for  the 
establishment of a Middle East zone free of weapons of 
mass destruction. We also look forward to the signing 
and ratification of the Protocol to the South-East Asia 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone by the five nuclear-weapon 
States.
On  conventional  weapons,  the  Philippines  will 
help  sustain  the  positive  momentum  created  by  the 
Arms Trade Treaty’s progress and continue to engage 
in  discussions  on  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and 
improvised  explosive  devices,  particularly  as  used  by 
armed non-State actors.
important  contributions  of  women 
The Philippines will continue on its path towards 
successfully  implementing  the  women  and  peace 
and  security  agenda  by  highlighting  at  this  session 
the 
in  peace 
negotiations  and  peacebuilding,  and  their  roles  in 
shaping the narratives of peace. We will maintain our 
active role in calling for the continued implementation 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  all  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women,  the  Beijing  Platform 
for  Action  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
on  women,  particularly  Goal  5  on  achieving  gender 
equality  and  empowering  all  women  and  girls.  Taken 
together,  these  instruments  are  powerful  mechanisms 
for  realizing  national  and  international  commitments 
to advancing women’s roles as enablers of sustainable 
development.
In  the  negotiations  on  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, the Philippines emphasized 
and will continue to highlight the positive contributions 
of migrants to sustainable development in countries of 
origin,  transit  and  destination.  We  deeply  appreciate 
the  United  Nations  recognition  of  the  Philippines 
as  a  model  of  migration  governance  because  of  its 
comprehensiveness  in  terms  of  managed  deployment, 
solid protection, diaspora engagement and reintegration. 
Both  the  United  Nations  and  the  Philippines  believe 
that  migration  governance  is  really  about  giving 
migrants  a  human  face.  The  basic  perspective  of  the 
Philippine  migration  management  policy  focuses  on 
two  important  considerations:  first,  migration  must 
be a shared international responsibility; and secondly, 
migrants’ human rights must be fully respected in all 
circumstances.
The Philippines will also continue to play an active 
role on the issue of human trafficking, either as a main or 
co-sponsor of resolutions that recognize the heightened 
vulnerability  to  trafficking  of  women  and  girls  in 
humanitarian  crisis  situations  and  other  emergency 
environments.  The  Philippines  will  work  with  other 
Governments  to  intensify  efforts  for  the  speedy 
disposition  of  trafficking  cases  and  strengthening  of 
anti-trafficking mechanisms.
Since  1963,  the  Philippines  has  been  a  consistent 
troop  contributor  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  We  are  committed  to  and  have  answered 
the  call  of  the  United  Nations  for  the  deployment  of 
female  peacekeepers.  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that 
there are now 15 Filipino women out of the 161 Filipino 
peacekeepers  in  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti. Guided by the policy recommendations 
of the Philippine National Council for United Nations 
Peace  Operations,  we  will  continue  to  engage  with 
the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  in  the 
deployment  of  Filipino  peacekeepers  and  support  the 
recommendations  of  the  United  Nations  High-level 
Independent Panel on Peace Operations to improve the 
safety and security of our peacekeepers.
At this seventieth session of the General Assembly, 
the  argument  for  United  Nations  reform  is  now  more 
urgent  than  ever.  The  Philippines  will  continue  to 
push for meaningful discussions on enhancing the role 
and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  on 
proposals to rationalize the agenda of the Assembly and 
its main committees. The Philippines will support calls 
for  continuing  the  conversations  on  the  much-needed 
15-29822
7/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
and long-overdue reforms to make the Security Council 
more  democratic,  more  inclusive,  more  transparent 
and  more  accountable.  These  reforms  include  urging 
the  Council  to  provide  the  General  Assembly  a 
plural  number  of  candidates,  especially  women,  for 
appointment to the post of Secretary-General, with due 
regard to regional rotation and gender equality. Together 
with other developing countries, the Philippines shares 
the position that a sufficient budget is important for the 
Organization  to  deliver  on  its  mandates  and  missions 
more effectively and with greater accountability.
In conclusion, at the fourth session of the General 
Assembly  on  20  September  1949,  the  late  great 
Philippine statesman, General Carlos P. Romulo, who 
was just then elected President of the General Assembly, 
said that the goal of the United Nations
“defined by its Charter, was to make it possible for 
men  to  live  better  lives  in  larger  freedom  under 
a reign of peace founded on justice and universal 
respect for law” (220th plenary meeting, para. 19).
Those  words  now  bear  greater  resonance.  Today,  I 
have the honour and privilege of leading the Philippine 
delegation,  and  on  behalf  of  President  Benigno  S. 
Aquino III and the Filipino people, please allow me to 
convey these solid commitments of the Philippines. 
First,  as  we  prepare  the  way  for  our  future 
generations  the  Philippines  will  continue  to  advocate 
for three key priorities and these would be: eradicating 
poverty; preventing conflict; and promoting the rule of 
law. Secondly, as we reaffirm our faith in the wisdom 
of  the  United  Nations  founding  Members,  we  renew 
our commitment to ending the scourge of war, uphold 
justice  and  human  rights  and  maintain  international 
peace and security. Thirdly, as we all pursue the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  let  the  United 
Nations continue to serve as the institutional platform, 
the  historical  foundation  and  the  moral  edifice  upon 
which we manifest humanity’s collective dreams, ideals 
and aspirations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Arnold Nicholson, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Jamaica.
Mr. Nicholson (Jamaica): It is an honour for me to 
address this historic seventieth session of the General 
Assembly. I extend to Mr. Mogens Lykketoft my sincere 
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the 
Assembly.  We  feel  confident  that  under  his  capable 
guidance, this session will inspire what he has called for 
in this seventieth year — a new commitment to action 
for  international  cooperation  towards  peace,  security, 
human rights and economic justice for all persons.
I also express Jamaica’s profound gratitude to the 
outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Sam  Kutesa  of 
Uganda,  for  his  outstanding  stewardship  during  what 
has been a truly defining year for the United Nations.
As  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
founding of the Organization, let us reflect on its value 
and work over the decades. We concede that the United 
Nations  is  by  no  means  perfect.  Yet  we  shudder  to 
contemplate the kind of world that would have emerged 
from  the  ravages  of  the  Second  World  War  without 
its  existence.  We  recognize  the  commendable  role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  in  various  fields,  from 
peacekeeping,  human  development  and  the  protection 
of human rights, to the codification of international law 
and  environmental  sustainability.  We  also  value  and 
commend the work of the specialized agencies for their 
impressive  achievements  in  agriculture,  population 
studies,  labour,  industrial  development,  health  and 
culture,  among  many  other  areas  of  pursuit.  It  is  a 
record  of  which  the  international  community  can  be 
justly proud. 
too  many  people 
At the same time, we acknowledge that the overall 
results  have  been  mixed  as  we  have  fallen  short  of 
our expectations in some key areas. Today, our world 
continues  to  be  plagued  by  poverty  and  strife,  which 
place 
in  vulnerable  situations. 
Suffering  and  inequality  remain  widespread  and  too 
many are marginalized and left behind. To tackle these 
challenges we must heed the call to do more and to do 
better. This is an historic moment and we must use it 
to  muster  our  collective  will  to  imbue  this  seventieth 
session  with  a  firm  determination  to  make  the  eighth 
decade  in  the  life  of  our  Organization  a  period  of 
unparalleled achievement. Let us prioritize action over 
rhetoric.
Last  week,  we  adopted  the  most  comprehensive, 
universal  global  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) the world has yet seen. 
We  have  great  expectations  of  the  2030  Agenda,  but 
they  will  not  be  met  without  determined  effort,  the 
exercise of political will and the forging of genuine and 
durable  partnerships  between  and  among  all  States. 
We  must  also  marshal  the  resources  required  at  the 
8/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
national,  regional  and  international  levels  to  increase 
the likelihood of success.
The  challenge  posed  by  climate  change 
is 
an  existential  one  for  the  peoples  of  small  island 
developing States (SIDS), whose lives and livelihoods 
too  often  hang  in  the  balance.  We  therefore  look  for 
the continued support of the international community 
for  SIDS.  A  key  part  of  our  work  will  be  to  ensure 
that, as we implement the new development paradigm, 
we  fully  address  the  unique  vulnerabilities  of  SIDS, 
and  the  persistent  economic  and  social  challenges  of 
countries in special situations, such as middle income 
countries. This must include the adoption of approaches 
to measuring development that reflects the realities of 
our countries.
In  yet  another  reminder  of  the  devastating  and 
disproportionate  impact  of  natural  disasters  on  SIDS, 
our sister island of Dominica is currently struggling to 
recover from the ravages of tropical storm Erika. Jamaica 
joins the appeal to the international community to rally 
in support of the people of Dominica by assisting in the 
recovery, reconstruction and humanitarian efforts that 
are required. It is an unfortunate fact that such events 
will  certainly  occur  again.  In  fact,  another  member 
of  our  Caribbean  family,  the  Bahamas,  is  now  being 
pummelled by Hurricane Joaquin. In spite of this fact, 
however,  the  international  community  can  ensure  the 
impact of the next natural disaster on our small island 
and low-lying coastal countries is lessened by helping 
us  to  improve  our  resilience  in  the  face  of  these  ever 
increasing calamities.
We  firmly  believe  that  the  successes  recorded  by 
the  Organization  over  the  past  years  have  reinforced 
the value of multilateralism as the best framework for 
tackling  global  problems.  The  adoption  of  the  SIDS 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway  and  the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  are  recent  examples  of 
our  commitment  to  collective  action.  The  next  major 
step for multilateralism will come in a few weeks when 
we hope to conclude negotiations in Paris on a global 
agreement on climate change. We must capitalize on the 
momentum that we have generated throughout this year 
and work in concert to make the climate Conference a 
success for us all. The sustainability of our planet and 
the prosperity of our peoples depend on a meaningful 
outcome. We can and we must deliver for present and 
future generations.
Our deep concern about climate change underscores 
the urgent need to protect our oceans and seas. As host 
of  the  International  Seabed  Authority,  Jamaica  views 
with  considerable  interest  developments  that  impact 
the  preservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  resources 
of  the  ocean  for  the  benefit  of  mankind.  We  urge 
greater  vigilance  by  all.  Let  us  prioritize  sustainable 
development over short-term goals.
The maintenance of international peace and security 
remains a most urgent and demanding objective of this 
body. While we have avoided a war of global scale over 
the past 70 years, today we face increasingly complex, 
interconnected  threats  to  our  peace  and  security. 
Intra-State  conflicts  and 
terrorist  activities  have 
transformed  the  geopolitical  landscape  and  increased 
the  threats  to  international  peace  and  security.  In  his 
annual  report  the  Secretary-General  (A/70/1),  points 
to  some  alarming  developments  in  which  millions  of 
people are engulfed by conflict and crisis, most notably 
in the Middle East and North Africa. Millions suffer the 
brutal tactics of violent extremists such as the Islamic 
State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Boko Haram and 
Al-Shabaab. 
Transnational  organized  crime  and  the  presence 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  continue  to  threaten 
international peace and security, while the proliferation 
of conventional arms in the hands of non-State actors 
pose  a  grave  risk  to  many  countries  and  regions.  In 
the face of these crises, our peoples look to the United 
Nations to find solutions to end human suffering. Yet, 
the Organization has been impotent to respond in many 
of these situations, calling its credibility and relevance 
into question.
We must admit that traditional peace and security 
responses  have  to  date  proven  grossly  inadequate 
in  the  face  of  today’s  diverse  conflicts.  With  that  in 
mind,  Jamaica  welcomes 
the  Secretary-General’s 
timely initiative to review and assess the peacekeeping 
architecture undertaken by the eminent United Nations 
High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations. 
We commend the resultant comprehensive agenda and 
robust action plan set out by the Secretary-General. As 
a proud police-contributing country, Jamaica is keen to 
participate  in  the  forthcoming  discussions  within  the 
General  Assembly  and  in  sharing  the  lessons  learned 
and the ways we might use our enhanced understanding 
of  the  new  contexts  in  which  our  peacekeepers  are 
being deployed.
15-29822
9/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
We, the United Nations, must redouble our efforts 
to find new avenues for maintaining peace and security, 
through  preventative  approaches  and  the  creation  of 
durable  solutions.  Forging  effective  partnerships  will 
be the key. History has shown us time and again that 
when the United Nations works with other actors within 
the international community, we can produce effective 
and  enduring  solutions 
intractable 
challenges.  As  we  move  to  decisively  address  threats 
to  and  breaches  of  international  peace  and  security,  I 
call on the Security Council to act more decisively to 
address these challenges. Let us prioritize peace over 
political expedience.
to  seemingly 
However, 
the  Assembly  continues 
to  grapple 
with  the  urgent  question  of  Security  Council  reform. 
Fortunately,  the  consensus  decision  of  the  sixty-ninth 
session is a call for the commencement of substantive, 
text-based  negotiation  during  this  historic  seventieth 
session. That is a significant step forward and Jamaica 
is honoured to have made its contribution as Chair of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  past 
session.
Jamaica  is  well  aware  that  in  our  region,  as 
elsewhere,  peace  and  development  are  inextricably 
linked.  However,  they  can  fall  prey  to  rising  social 
and  political  tensions,  which  too  often  culminate  in 
conflicts.  For  that  reason  we  are  pleased  that  on  the 
occasion  of  the  second  Summit  of  the  Community  of 
Latin American and Caribbean States held in Cuba in 
2014,  our  Community  proclaimed  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean as a zone of peace.
Jamaica recognizes that it is through dialogue and 
mutual respect that we can begin to address many long-
standing  conflicts.  We  are  therefore  heartened  to  see 
the  warming  of  relations  between  two  of  our  closest 
neighbours and call on the United States Administration 
to take a further bold step by immediately lifting the 
unjust  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  Cuba.  The  Group  has  further  noted  and 
welcomed  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
facilitate  a  solution  to  the  controversy  between  the 
two  countries.  The  importance  of  keeping  diplomatic 
channels open and engaging in dialogue was reiterated. 
Jamaica  remains  concerned  about  the  ongoing 
border  controversy  between  Guyana  and  Venezuela. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  recent  decision  of  our  two 
neighbours to resume diplomatic dialogue with a view 
to bringing the controversy to an early end.
The conflict-fuelled humanitarian crises unfolding 
throughout the world, particularly in the Middle East, 
North  Africa,  the  Mediterranean,  and  into  Central 
Europe,  require  our  urgent  attention.  So  too  do  the 
humanitarian crises that impact people living in areas 
prone to natural disasters.
It  is  unthinkable  that  we  should  tolerate  the 
immense  suffering  of  millions,  including  vulnerable 
women and children. Let us be our brothers’ keeper and 
reach  out  in  the  universal  and  timeless  spirit  of  “one 
love” so poignantly championed by Jamaica’s musical 
icon,  the  late  Bob  Marley.  It  is  Jamaica’s  hope  that 
the World Humanitarian Summit in 2016 will signal a 
turning point in how we, the global community, treat 
with  such  crises  in  order  to  contain  and  reverse  their 
effects, and where possible prevent their occurrence.
I  now  turn  to  the  area  of  disarmament  and  arms 
control,  which  is  in  danger  of  becoming  a  neglected 
and  forgotten  goal  of  the  United  Nations.  Sadly,  the 
disarmament machinery has been languishing in a state 
of paralysis for the past 19 years. The vast expenditures 
on weapons and military equipment of all kinds, which 
consume a massive share of the world’s resources, could 
be  more  properly  channelled  into  the  development 
agenda  that  we  have  just  adopted.  By  so  doing,  the 
world would not only be more prosperous, it would also 
be much safer and more secure.
that 
the 
We  are  disheartened 
international 
community has failed to seize the opportunity provided 
by  the  2015  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to 
make significant progress on its commitment to ridding 
the world of nuclear weapons. We must invigorate our 
disarmament  efforts  through  new  and  more  effective 
approaches.  Jamaica  therefore  supports  efforts  to 
address  the  humanitarian  impact  of  nuclear  weapons 
and joins the strong call for the negotiation of a legally 
binding  instrument  to  prohibit  their  use,  which  is 
embodied in the recent humanitarian pledge endorsed 
by 114 States.
Of immediate concern to Jamaica is the proliferation 
of  firearms  of  every  description  that  endanger  the 
lives of ordinary citizens, undermines the rule of law, 
threatens economic and social stability and fuels violent 
crime.  Those  who  manufacture  such  weapons  must 
exercise greater controls and support anti-proliferation 
efforts.  The  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  which  entered  into 
force  less  than  a  year  ago,  can  make  a  significant 
10/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
contribution  to  such  efforts.  We  are  therefore  pleased 
that  the  recent  convening  of  the  first  Conference  of 
States  Parties  has  laid  the  foundation  for  the  full  and 
effective implementation of the Treaty. Let us prioritize 
vision over short-term gain.
The promotion of human rights is a major pillar on 
which the United Nations was founded. We must remain 
resolute  in  our  commitment  to  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights, knowing that every human 
being is equal in value and dignity and endowed with 
inalienable rights. In too many circumstances, the rights 
of  the  most  vulnerable  are  treated  with  scant  regard. 
Children are often exposed to a climate of violence and 
face persistent abuse; they are exploited and trafficked; 
used  as  labour  and  denied  their  fundamental  rights. 
We must continue to take stronger action to protect our 
children and to safeguard their rights.
that  hinder 
their  ability 
Persons with disabilities also face disproportionate 
hardships 
to  contribute 
effectively to their communities and societies. Jamaica is 
pleased to have recently passed its landmark Disabilities 
Act, which seeks to ensure that we fulfil our obligations 
to meet the needs and development aspirations of this 
important  community.  Across  the  world,  we  ought  to 
make greater efforts to promote and protect the rights 
of persons with disabilities. We therefore welcome the 
higher number of ratifications of the Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities over the past year. 
The President took the Chair.
Too many women continue to face gross violations 
of  their  human  rights.  Too  many  are  victims  of 
trafficking,  violence  and  discrimination,  of  unequal 
treatment  before  the  law,  and  of  subjugation  and 
domination. I applaud the active efforts of UN-Women 
to realize women’s human rights. Jamaica is proud of 
its  long-standing  social  legislation  and  its  record  of 
championing the rights of women, even as we recognize 
that  more  remains  to  be  done,  in  keeping  with  the 
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.
Racism,  xenophobia  and  other  forms  of  racial 
intolerance  must  also  be  rooted  out  in  order  to  help 
create  a  more  level  playing  field  for  all  peoples.  The 
launch of the International Decade for People of African 
Descent last December was a welcome development in 
our  collective  efforts  to  address  these  issues.  In  this 
regard,  I  call  upon  Member  States  to  ensure  the  full 
implementation of its programme of activities.
On the grounds of the United Nations now stands 
The Ark  of  Return,  a  monument  erected  in  honour 
of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade. Jamaica and its Caribbean Community partners 
in  tandem  with  the  African  Union  spearheaded  this 
initiative with the generous support of the membership. 
For  those  who  may  not  have  had  an  opportunity  to 
view it, I would urge you all to spend what will prove 
to  be  a  worthwhile  few  moments  of  reflection  at  this 
memorial.  It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  ensure 
that  the  message  of  the  memorial,  that  there  is  no 
place for racial discrimination in our world, continues 
to be passed on from generation to generation. Let us 
prioritize people over power.
In this seventieth year, let us reaffirm our commitment 
to the guiding principles of this Organization and place 
them firmly at the core of our efforts to attain our shared 
goals and objectives: sovereign equality of States, great 
and  small;  observance  of  fundamental  human  rights; 
the  equal  rights  of  men  and  women;  respect  for  the 
rule of law and the Charter of the United Nations; the 
promotion  of  social  progress  and  better  standards  of 
life for everyone; and a firm belief that diplomacy, not 
force,  should  be  our  recourse  in  the  quest  to  resolve 
conflicts  and  advance  development.  Let  us  therefore 
prioritize  our  commitment  to  action,  with  renewed 
fervour  and  determination.  In  this  noble  endeavour  I 
pledge Jamaica’s unwavering support and action.
The President: I now give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr. Wunna Maung Lwin, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Mr.  Lwin  (Myanmar):  First  of  all,  I  should  like 
to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  you,  Sir, 
on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. I am confident that 
your able leadership and diplomatic skills will steer our 
deliberations to a successful conclusion. I assure you of 
my delegation’s full support and cooperation.
I should also like to commend the outstanding work 
of your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba 
Kutesa,  at  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations.  This  historic  occasion  affords 
us  the  opportunity  to  reflect  on  and  look  back  at  the 
achievements  of  the  world  Organization.  The  United 
Nations was founded to safeguard international peace 
and  security  in  order  to  save  succeeding  generations 
15-29822
11/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
from  the  scourge  of  war.  The  Organization  deserves 
the  highest  credit  for  its  achievement  in  preventing 
the outbreak of another world war of the kind that has 
plagued  us  twice  in  the  past.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is 
confronted  with  regional  conflicts,  a  rising  tide  of 
non-traditional threats and violent extremism. We need 
to do more to address these challenges, collectively.
There  are  also  achievements  in  bringing  a  better 
life  to  all.  Lifting  millions  out  of  poverty,  sending 
millions  more  children  to  school,  combating  deadly 
diseases,  and  promoting  gender  equality  and  human 
rights are remarkable milestones in the United Nations 
journey. The unanimous adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) last week 
has added to the long list of its achievements.
Still,  daunting  challenges  remain.  The  colonial 
legacy  with  its  inherited  divisions  influences  today’s 
conflicts across the world, depriving many of economic 
and social development. The rising threats of terrorism 
and  acts  of  violent  extremism  need  to  be  addressed 
decisively.  Climate 
environmental 
degradation  are  undermining  the  development  and 
lives  of  the  poor.  Inequalities  are  widening,  pushing 
the  poor  further  behind.  The  time  is  now  opportune 
to do soul-searching on the future of the Organization 
and  to  strengthen  our  collective  resolve  to  address 
the challenges of our time, particularly to advance its 
priorities, capacity and reform.
change 
and 
Today’s  new  and  emerging  challenges  are 
increasingly  calling  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
of  the  Organization  into  question.  While  the  cardinal 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations remain 
valid today, the world Organization, which was founded 
seven decades ago, needs to be reformed in conformity 
with today’s changing realities and the drastic growth 
in  membership.  We  believe  that  the  Security  Council 
also has to be reformed to make it more representative, 
efficient and transparent and to strengthen its capacity 
to  better  discharge  its  responsibilities  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  as  entrusted  by  the 
Charter.
As  part  of  the  United  Nations  reform,  we  set  up 
the  Human  Rights  Council  in  2006  to  redress  the 
shortcomings  of  its  predecessor,  the  Commission  on 
Human Rights. Yet, human rights issues are increasingly 
politicized and exploited. The principles of universality, 
objectivity  and  non-selectivity  are  at  stake.  Myanmar 
firmly believes that the universal periodic review is the 
forum where promotion and protection of human rights 
can best be addressed with objectivity and impartiality 
on an equal footing.
The  most  significant  milestone  contribution 
Myanmar has made to the United Nations was providing 
the Organization with a Secretary-General. He served 
the  Organization  from  1961  to  1971  at  a  difficult 
time  of  ideological  contention,  mistrust  and  security 
tensions among nations. He played an important role in 
enhancing  security  and  expanding  the  Organization’s 
work  on  economic  and  social  development  in  poor 
countries. The United Nations Development Programme 
and  the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
were  also  initiated.  U  Thant  believed  that  the  United 
Nations needed to meet the needs and hopes of people 
everywhere.  That  vision  is  more  relevant  than  ever 
to  the  work  of  the  Organization  and  should  guide  us 
beyond the United Nations at 70.
During  the  tenure  of  the  present  Government, 
Myanmar  has  moved  to  raise  its  profile  in  the  field 
of  disarmament.  We  started  with  the  signing  of  the 
Additional  Protocol  of 
the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency in September 2013. That was followed 
by  Myanmar’s  ratification  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Prohibition  of 
the  Development,  Production  and 
Stockpiling  of  Bacteriological  (Biological)  and  Toxin 
Weapons  and  on  Their  Destruction  in  December 
2014  and  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the 
Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use  of 
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction.
These  actions  demonstrate  Myanmar’s  dedicated 
commitment  to  the  cause  of  disarmament.  Every 
year  Myanmar  introduces  a  resolution  on  nuclear 
disarmament that is adopted with the support of a great 
majority of Member States. The resolution reflects our 
firm conviction that our world will be more secure and 
safer without nuclear weapons. As the main sponsor of 
the resolution, once again we invite all Member States 
to continue to support the resolution this year.
Peacekeeping  has  been  one  of  the  most  effective 
tools available to the United Nations to assist countries 
struggling  on  their  difficult  path  from  conflict  to 
peace.  Today,  the  nature  of  conflicts  is  changing  and 
becomes increasingly complex. We therefore welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s 
reviewing 
United Nations peace operations. At the same time, it is 
of paramount importance not to weaken the principles 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter as well as the 
timely  efforts 
12/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
cardinal  principles  of  traditional  peacekeeping  of  the 
United Nations.
Fifteen years ago, we gathered here and committed 
ourselves  to  fight  against  poverty.  We  set  ambitious 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  targets. 
While  we  have  lifted  more  than  1  billion  people  out 
of extreme poverty, some 800 million people are still 
excessively poor. Myanmar has made notable progress 
in  poverty  and  hunger  reduction,  eliminating  gender 
disparity in basic education, reducing the child mortality 
rate, improving maternal health and advancing a global 
partnership for development. The adoption of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development this year will take 
over  the  unfinished  business  of  the  MDGs.  Political 
commitment, enhanced partnership, the strengthening 
of  capacity  and  the  provision  of  adequate  means  of 
implementation  will  be  keys  to  success  in  realizing 
ambitious Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
economic 
sanctions 
Unilateral 
imposed  on 
developing  countries  have  a  negative  impact  on  their 
efforts on behalf of their people. They will also hinder 
the realization of the SDGs. We therefore call for the 
early lifting of such measures.
The  world  is  experiencing  shifting  patterns  of 
rainfall  and  snowfall,  rising  temperatures  and  heavy 
rainstorms.  While  we  envisage  a  sustainable  and 
resilient  planet,  scientific  agencies  agree  that  human 
activities are contributing to climate change. This is the 
time  to  translate  commitments  into  action  and  not  to 
argue. It is crucial that the 2015 Paris Climate Change 
Conference reach a meaningful and universal climate 
change agreement keeping global warming below 2°C. 
It  must  also  include  obligations  to  provide  the  least 
developed  countries  with  adequate  and  additional 
financial  and  technological  resources  to  help  address 
the impacts of climate change.
Migration  definitely  is  not  a  new  phenomenon. 
Myanmar  shares  the  concerns  expressed  by  many  in 
this  Hall  about  the  migratiants  in  Europe  and  Asia. 
Saving  lives  on  the  journey,  better  legal  migration 
policies,  creating  better  opportunities  at  home  and 
the  suppression  of  people  smuggling  and  trafficking 
networks  are  essential  to  addressing  illegal  migration 
everywhere.  We  strongly  believe 
that  economic 
migration  and  human  trafficking  must  be  urgently 
addressed in a comprehensive manner.
Let  me  turn  to  the  state  of  affairs  in  my  home 
country, Myanmar. Democratic reforms started in 2011. 
reforms  have  widened 
The Government is now consolidating firm foundations 
for  democracy.  The 
the 
democratic space, advanced economic performance and 
narrowed differences with the non-State armed groups. 
A  new  political  culture  of  dialogue  has  taken  root  as 
Myanmar opened its doors to different political forces 
since  the  early  days  of  the  reforms.  Amnesties  were 
granted on several occasions allowing former prisoners 
to  take  part  in  nation-building  endeavours.  Activists, 
media  people,  entrepreneurs  and  academicians  living 
abroad have returned home. They are working hand in 
hand  with  the  Government  for  the  common  goal  of  a 
peaceful and prosperous Myanmar. Unavoidably, there 
are still challenges typical of a young democracy, but 
we believe they are not insurmountable.
Economic  sector  reform  has  proven  successful. 
Myanmar  maintains  an  average  growth  rate  of  8  per 
cent gross domestic product in a four-year time frame. 
Myanmar  is  aiming  at  graduating  from  the  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  group  at  an  early  date. 
That is feasible if we can maintain this average annual 
growth  rate  over  the  coming  years.  The  framework 
for economic and social reforms launched in 2013 for 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  poverty  reduction 
is  a  solid  platform  for  our  LDC  graduation  ambition. 
One  International  Monetary  Fund  evaluation  is  that 
economic prospects of Myanmar remain strong.
Myanmar  is  a  multi-ethnic  and  multi-religious 
country where freedom of religion is guaranteed in its 
State Constitution. The houses of worship of different 
faiths  stand  side  by  side  across  the  country  where 
different communities share the same neighbourhood. 
The  situation  in  Rakhine  state  has  changed.  The 
Government has managed not only to prevent any new 
violence  but  has  also  started  to  promote  a  culture  of 
peace  through  interfaith  dialogue  and  talks  among 
communities and their leaders. Peace and stability has 
been restored.
As I speak, more than 20 different aid organizations 
are  providing  humanitarian  and  other  assistance  in 
Rakhine state. We thank the regional and international 
partners  for  their  kind  assistance  to  humanitarian, 
resettlement,  reintegration  and  development  needs. 
The  Interfaith  Friendship  Group  in  Myanmar  has  a 
nationwide  set-up  and  is  composed  of  representatives 
of  all  faiths.  The  Group  holds  monthly  meetings  and 
conveys messages of peace and harmony to the public. 
They  also  make  religious  site  visits  and  provide 
assistance  to  the  needy  as  necessary.  Various  civil 
15-29822
13/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
society  organizations  are  also  playing  their  part  in 
bridging different communities.
Peace  is  a  prerequisite  for  national  reconciliation 
and a cornerstone for building a new democratic society 
in Myanmar. Democracy will not flourish in the absence 
of  peace.  Without  peace,  economic  development  will 
not  be  sustained.  In  this  strong  conviction,  President 
Thein Sein extended an olive branch to armed groups 
shortly  after  taking  office  with  the  aim  of  building 
sustainable and lasting peace in Myanmar.
Negotiations have been going on to determine the 
timing  and  modality  for  the  signing  of  a  nationwide 
ceasefire  agreement.  The  Government,  for  its  part,  is 
fully prepared and patiently waiting for signature. We 
are hoping to sign the nationwide ceasefire agreement 
in  the  very  near  future.  We  will  then  continue 
discussions over the framework for a political dialogue. 
We  appreciate  the  interest  in  and  support  of  the 
international community for our peace process.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 
have always been high on our agenda. Recent reforms 
in Myanmar have contributed to our people’s ability to 
better enjoy fundamental human rights and freedoms. 
The  Myanmar  National  Human  Rights  Commission, 
first established in 2011, was reconstituted in line with 
the  Paris  Principles  following  the  enactment  of  the 
Myanmar National Human Rights Commission Law in 
2014.
Widening  the  space  for  people  to  express  their 
views  and  opinions  has  been  one  of  the  most  visible 
developments  in  Myanmar.  Greater  media  freedom 
has been granted throughout the country by abolishing 
press censorship and permitting the publication of daily 
newspapers  and  weekly  journals.  Myanmar  has  also 
made  significant  progress  in  expanding  the  rights  to 
freedom of peaceful assembly and of association.
Our  signing  of  the  International  Covenant  on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in July 2015 and 
the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights 
of  the  Child  on  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed 
conflict on 28 September was clear testimony to rising 
human rights standards in Myanmar.
Myanmar suffered a devastating natural disaster in 
late  July  and  August  in  the  wake  of  Cyclone  Komen. 
The  damage 
landslides 
from  torrential  rains  this  year  is  more  intense  and 
widespread than that of cyclone Nargis seven years ago. 
inflicted  by  floods  and 
We appreciate the kind assistance given to the affected 
people  by  friendly  countries  near  and  far,  the  United 
Nations and the international community.
This  year,  2015,  is  vital  for  Myanmar  as  we  will 
hold general elections on 8 November. The forthcoming 
elections will be transparent, free and fair. As such, the 
Government is working together with local stakeholders 
and international partners.
Over the past four and a half years, we have been 
able to enhance peace, stability and the rule of law and 
socioeconomic development in the country. Some may 
not  be  content  with  the  pace  of  our  reform  process. 
However, it is undeniable that we have been able to create 
better  political  and  socio-economic  conditions,  foster 
national  reconciliation  through  a  culture  of  dialogue, 
and expand space for civil societies in nation-building.
In  closing,  it  is  important  to  highlight  that 
Myanmar’s  democratic  reform  process  is  gaining 
momentum  and  moving  in  the  right  direction.  The 
international  community  should  continue  its  support 
to Myanmar in an objective and constructive manner. 
We  shall  remain  fully  committed  and  relentless  in 
our  efforts  for  peace,  democracy  and  inclusive  socio-
economic development for the people of Myanmar.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Aïchatou  Boulama  Kané,  Minister  of  State, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and African 
Integration and Nigeriens Abroad of Niger.
Ms.  Kané  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a  real 
pleasure  and  an  immense  privilege  to  take  the  floor 
before the Assembly at this historic celebration of the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  First, 
I  wish  to  address  my  warm  congratulations  to  you, 
Sir,  on  your  outstanding  election  to  head  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  regular  session.  Your  vast 
experience  of  international  and  parliamentary  issues, 
together  with  your  eminent  personal  and  professional 
skills, are a guarantee for the success of our work.
I should also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, 
Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa,  for  having  presided 
brilliantly over the sixty-ninth session. To the Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  reiterate  the  gratitude  of  my 
delegation for the special interest he has always shown 
in  seeking  solutions  to  the  many  challenges  that  the 
United Nations and its Members have had to face.
This  session  in  an  historic  one,  as  I  said  earlier, 
and the theme that you, Sir, have chosen for the general 
14/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
debate  this  year  —  “The  United  Nations  at  70:  the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights” — is 
very timely because it is both an appeal to take stock 
and  a  look  to  the  future  of  the  United  Nations  work 
in  the  service  of  international  peace  and  security, 
economic  and  social  development  and  human  rights. 
In that respect, we welcome the fact that the principles 
enunciated  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  have 
stood the test of time and that the United Nations has 
many successes to its credit. 
In  the  area  of  international  peace  and  security, 
our  Organization  has  played  an  appreciable  role  in 
resolving conflicts and preventing others, in particular 
with the establishment of preventive diplomacy in 1997. 
The adoption in 2001 of the United Nations Programme 
of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit 
Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its 
Aspects; the adoption of the Global Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy  in  2006;  the  relaunching  of  the  Conference 
on  Disarmament  with  a  view  to  recommendations  on 
nuclear disarmament and practical confidence-building 
measures for conventional weapons; and most recently 
the conclusion of the Arms Trade Treaty all attest to the 
United Nations progress towards its goals.
increasingly  carried  out  with 
With regard to the maintenance or re-establishment 
of  international  peace  and  security,  peacekeeping 
operations  are 
the 
participation of regional organizations and have evolved 
significantly  in  scope  and  mandate  in  order  to  adapt 
to  crisis  and  conflicts  that  have  become  increasingly 
complex. Moreover, in the weeks to come the General 
Assembly  will  discuss  in-depth  the  new  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  future  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations (see A//70/95). In this respect, 
I  should  like  to  emphasize  that  Niger  is  the  world’s 
seventeenth-largest 
troop-  and  police-contributing 
country, with 1,826 men and women in United Nations 
peacekeeping operations in 2015. 
With regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  established  by 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  principal 
judiciary organ of the United Nations, has contributed 
to  maintaining  international  peace  by  handing  down 
decisions  and  advisory  opinions  in  resolution  of  a 
variety  of  many  disputes.  The  Niger  trusts  the  Court 
and  has  resorted  to  it  in  two  border  disputes  with 
neighbouring  States,  which  not  only  allowed  those 
disputes to be permanently settled but also reaffirmed 
good-neighbourliness  and  cooperation  with 
countries.
these 
In  the  same  vein,  the  conclusion  in  July  of 
negotiations  agreement  between  the  five  permanent 
members of the Security Council and Germany, on the 
one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Iran, on the other, 
with regard to the nuclear programme of the latter, was 
in our opinion a real reason for satisfaction.
In the Middle East, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 
which  began  several  years  after  the  creation  of  the 
United  Nations,  has  not  yet  been  resolved,  despite  its 
heavy  toll  in  human  lives,  mainly  civilians,  and  the 
many  initiatives  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  peace 
plans  initiated  by  other  members  of  the  international 
community.  The  Niger  continues  to  stand  with  the 
Palestinian  people  and  supports  all  efforts  that  could 
lead to a comprehensive peace based on the two-State 
solution,  with  an  independent  and  viable  Palestine 
living side by side in peace and security with Israel and 
neighbouring  countries.  We  were  therefore  pleased  to 
attend  on  30  September  the  raising  of  the  Palestinian 
flag  alongside  those  of  States  Members  at  the  United 
Nations.
Also in the Middle East, the wars raging in Syria, 
Iraq and Yemen are reasons for genuine concern. They 
have  inflicted  terrible  suffering  on  civilians,  who 
have  been  compelled  to  seek  refuge  elsewhere.  This 
has created humanitarian crises embodied in the daily 
tragedy  of  immigrants  in  the  Mediterranean  Sea  and 
along the eastern borders of Europe.
In Africa, the ongoing situation in South Sudan is yet 
another source of great concern, despite the agreement 
signed  in  August.  In  Burkina  Faso,  we  welcome  the 
succesful  resolution  of  the  situation  and  the  relaunch 
of the democratic transition thanks to the efforts of the 
African Union and the Economic Community of West 
African  States  (ECOWAS).  In  the  Central  African 
Republic, we welcome the Bangui Forum for National 
Reconciliation  and  call  on  all  parties  to  implement 
its  outcome.  We  express  our  great  concern,  however, 
on  the  subject  of  recent  events  that  may  undermine 
security and respect for the agreed agenda.
In  Mali,  despite  the  presence  of  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Mali  and  Operation  Barkhane,  terrorist 
groups  continue  to  carry  out  criminal  acts  against 
the  civilian  population  and  the  peacekeeping  forces. 
The  signing  on  20  June  at  Bamako  of  the  Agreement 
15-29822
15/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
for  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  Mali  was  a  crucial 
milestone  in  restoring  peace,  security  and  stability 
and  in  creating  conditions  conducive  to  economic 
and  social  development  in  that  country.  The  effective 
implementation of the Agreement must be supported by 
the entire international community.
the 
international  community 
In  Libya,  the  situation  remains  very  alarming 
and  require 
to  be 
further  involved  so  as  to  persuade  the  Libyan  people 
to  reconcile  and  fight  together  against  the  terrorist 
groups  sowing  despair  throughout  the  country.  We 
see every day how their activities compromise efforts 
aimed  at  genuine  national  reconciliation,  which  is  a 
sine  qua  non  condition  to  restore  peace  and  stability 
and  ensure  the  economic  and  social  development  that 
the Libyan people legitimately deserve. That situation 
is  also  a  serious  threat  to  the  security  of  the  Niger,  a 
neighbouring  country,  and  the  entire  Sahelo-Saharan 
region.  In  regard,  we  sincerely  hope  that  the  United 
Nations-led peace process under Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  Bernardino  León  will  be 
crowned with success.
To  those  general  situations  of  conflict  are  also 
added  violent  extremism  and  international  terrorism, 
which are increasingly taking on worrying dimensions 
with  the  acquisition  of  heavy  weapons  and  the  desire 
to  conquer  territories  and  destabilize  the  area  to  an 
unprecedented degree. However, we have to be pleased 
by  the  awareness  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community  of  the  danger  that  represents,  as  well  as 
by its commitment to face it. Whether it is the United 
Nations through the relevant resolutions of the Security 
Council  or  the  actions  of  regional  organizations  and 
subregional  organizations  such  as  the  African  Union, 
ECOWAS,  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission,  the 
European  Union  and  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation,  the  international  community  is  showing 
great mobilization to eradicate this scourge.
As  for  the  Boko  Haram  sect,  which  is  disturbing 
the peace in the Lake Chad Basin, it will certainly be 
defeated  by  the  effective  operation  of  the  multilateral 
mixed  force  established  by  Cameroon,  the  Niger, 
Nigeria, Chad and the members of the Lake Chad Basin, 
as well as Benin. We would like to thank the members 
of  the  Security  Council  for  the  statement  issued  in 
August  that  urged  the  international  community  to 
contribute  all  the  necessary  support  to  the  States  of 
the region, in particular the members of the Lake Chad 
Basin  Commission  plus  Benin.  For  its  part,  Niger  is 
actively  committed  to  combating  terrorism  and,  in 
close  cooperation  with  its  partners,  has  strengthened 
its national committee to combat all forms of terrorism 
as part of a regional and international undertaking to 
combat this scourge.
As  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Niger, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahamadou  Issoufou,  said  on 
the occasion of his speech to the audience at Harvard 
University on 3 April,
“The  Clauswitz  triad,  people,  government, 
army, which has always been sought in the past in 
so-called  industrial  wars,  functions  very  well  in 
asymmetric  wars  conducted  by  terrorists.  While 
some claim to be carrying out jihad in the name of 
Allah,  Islam  is  a  religion  of  peace  and  tolerance. 
Islam asks Muslims to seek knowledge and, as the 
Prophet has said, to do so as far as China, so as to 
learn  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave.  The  terrorists 
of  Boko  Haram,  like  all  other  terrorists,  are  not 
Muslims.  On  the  contrary,  they  are  the  worst 
enemies of Islam. For those reasons, Boko Haram 
has no future and will be vanquished.”
With  regard  to  human  rights,  since  the  adoption, 
on  10  December  1948,  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  we  have  witnessed  an  impressive 
development of international law and human rights law 
through the conclusion of numerous international legal 
instruments covering almost all aspects, including new 
rights. At the same time, important progress has been 
made in the codification of international law.
With regard to the challenge of migration, we are 
delighted that the international community is concerned 
with  dealing  with  this  important  issue  appropriately 
and on a global basis. The Niger is a country of origin, 
a host country and a country of transit. We believe that 
is  imperative  to  find  immediate  palliative  solutions 
that  will  stop  clandestine  immigration,  dismantle 
the  criminal  economy  that  underlies  it  and  solve  the 
problem  by  attacking  the  deep  causes  of  migration 
in  countries  of  origin,  causes  which  are  of  a  security 
nature, economic and climate and sometimes political 
due to bad governance.
In the area of economic and social development, the 
United Nations system, through the operational activities 
of  its  agencies,  funds,  programmes  and  specialized 
agencies,  has  provided  technical  assistance,  capacity-
building  and  development  projects 
to  developing 
countries. I am pleased to note that the United Nations 
16/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
system  has  acted  as  a  neutral  and  trusted  partner  in 
supporting Governments, while helping them with their 
leadership and to fulfil their international commitments 
and implement their development strategies.
The  Niger  acceded  to  the  United  Nations  on 
20  September  1960  under  the  sponsorship  of  Tunisia, 
which we commend for its constant friendship as we mark 
the seventieth anniversary of our common Organization. 
Ever since, the Niger has been resolutely committed to 
international  solidarity.  On  this  solemn  occasion,  we 
welcome the new turning point of the United Nations 
to go beyond the Millennium Development Goals and 
bring about the essential changes to our planet so that 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  do  not  just  mean 
rhetoric,  but  a  true  commitment  to  sustainable  global 
development.
A new commitment to act is a commitment for the 
peoples of the world, to whom we must provide peace, 
stability and development. It is a commitment to heighten 
the spirit of sharing and solidarity at the global level. 
It  represents  a  driving  force  break  down  the  barriers 
of inequality between and within nations. Finally, it is 
about building a more just and more human world. That 
is why the Niger believes that “Transforming our world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development”  must 
be implemented effectively.
The  commitments  that  we  have  all  signed  on  to 
have meaning only if they are part of active solidarity 
and  renewed  partnership.  The  United  Nations  system 
must be an important actor in the implementation of the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals and the 169 targets, 
including the means of implementation and the follow-
up review mechanism. I hope that they will allow for 
progress  beyond  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  contribute  to  meeting  the  challenges  we  face  to 
reach the future we want, namely, economic, social and 
environmental  well-being  for  all.  I  also  hope  that  the 
Agenda’s  implementation  will  take  into  account  the 
close link existing between security, development and 
climate.
I also welcome the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on 
financing  for  development,  adopted  in  July,  wherein 
partners  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  support 
developing countries with a view to inclusive economic 
and  social  growth  and  sustainable  development,  in 
particular via increased, predictable and steady official 
development  assistance  and  other  public  and  private 
financing sources.
While the wounds left by the structural adjustment 
programmes of the 1980s and 1990s have not yet healed, 
the  2008  economic  and  financial  crisis  has  gravely 
undermined  the  growth  achieved  during  the  2000s. 
The economies of developing countries — in particular 
the  most  vulnerable  among  them,  such  as  landlocked 
countries,  least  developed  countries  and  small  island 
developing  States  —  have  been  the  most  affected.  In 
that regard, I underscore the importance for us of the 
speeding up the comprehensive implementation of the 
commitments under the Istanbul Programme of Action 
for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  and  the  Vienna 
Programme  of  Action  for  Landlocked  Developing 
Countries. 
We  also  hope  that  the  Paris  Climate  Summit  will 
produce  a  binding  legal  instrument  that  includes 
effective steps to mitigage the effects of climate change, 
including  adaptation  measures  for  these  countries  in 
line  with  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.  At  the  same  time,  the  commitments 
made  with  regard  for  the  Green  Climate  Fund  should 
be  both  respected  stepped  up.  We  welcome  all  the 
efforts that the French Government has made under the 
leadership of President François Hollande to guarantee 
the success of the upcoming historic climate meeting.
We  must  also  redouble  our  efforts  with  regard  to 
the commitments made under the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda  on  Financing  for  Development,  the  post-2015 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the measures 
to be decided at the twenty-first Conference of Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change.
Niger is continuing to implement an economic and 
social  development  programme  that  runs  through  the 
end of this year. It aims at economic growth and access 
by all the people of the Niger to basic social services. A 
new  development  programme,  known  as  Vision  2035, 
will follow thereafter, with a focus on inclusive growth. 
It  is  therefore  important  that  there  be  an  appropriate 
mobilization  of  financial  means  and  assistance  for 
capacity-building, the facilitation of trade, technology 
and private investment.
On  the  political  front,  we  intend  to  entrench  and 
enhance  good  democratic  governance  as  an  essential 
factor for all development. In that connection, in early 
2016 we will hold a series of elections for the renewal 
of  the  mandates  of  our  institutions.  Our  presidential, 
legislative and local elections will be transparent, free 
15-29822
17/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
and inclusive. I invite all of our partners to support the 
Niger in that undertaking of consolidating democracy 
in my country.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and his team for their 
tireless efforts to advance the multifaceted work of the 
Organization over the past year.
the  same  scope  and 
The  international  system  also  needs  democratic 
governance. That is particularly necessary because it is 
clearly recognized that the problems we are facing are 
on a worldwide scale, and therefore deserve responses 
of 
through  comprehensive 
multilateralism.  The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations should be taken advantage of to examine 
how it functions and make progress in determining the 
necessary adjustments so that the Organization, and the 
Security Council in particular, will reflect the current 
reality of the world. Africa, which was not present when 
the United Nations was established because it was still 
under  colonial  domination,  has  to  correct  the  historic 
injustice it has had with regard to its representation in 
the Security Council. In accordance with the Ezulwini 
Consensus, and in line with deliberations of the African 
Union,  our  continent  should  be  represented  in  both 
categories  of  membership,  with  two  permanent  and 
five  non-permanent  seats.  Furthermore,  the  General 
Assembly — the pre-eminent and most representative 
organ  —  should  be  revitalized  so  that  it  can  play  its 
role in finding solutions to the different challenges in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter.
The  Niger  believes  in  multilateralism,  sustained 
solidarity  among  peoples  and  the  virtues  of  dialogue 
among States. In line with those principles, we commend 
the  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
United  States  and  Cuba  and  hope  that  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  will  coincide  with 
the end of an economic embargo against Cuba’s people 
that is so unfair.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Lyompo Damcho Dorji, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Bhutan.
Mr. Dorji (Bhutan): At the outset, I should like to 
convey  to  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly  the 
warm greetings of His Majesty the King of Bhutan. I 
should also like to congratulate you on your election, 
Mr. President, and to assure you of my delegation’s full 
support in the discharge of your responsibilities. I also 
thank Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the Assembly at its 
sixty-ninth session, for his able leadership over the past 
year, in particular in steering to a successful conclusion 
the complex negotiations on the post-2015 Sustainable 
Development  Agenda  (resolution  70/1).  I  also  thank 
At  70, 
the  United  Nations,  underpinned  by 
multilateralism  and  the  sovereign  equality  of  nations, 
remains indispensable. It embodies the collective will 
and  conscience  of  humankind  for  a  more  peaceful, 
secure and prosperous world. Its existence reflects our 
enduring  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  unites  all 
nations — big or small, rich or poor — to work together 
to realize our shared goals and aspirations.
Over the last seven decades, the United Nations has 
delivered much of what is promised in its Charter, and 
it is only fitting that we pay tribute to its achievements: 
from  saving  millions  of  lives  through  relief  efforts, 
vaccinating children, eradicating smallpox and fighting 
AIDS  to  feeding  millions  every  year  in  countries 
affected  by  war,  conflict  and  natural  disasters;  from 
negotiating  peace  deals  and  conducting  peacekeeping 
operations  to  advancing  democracy  and  creating  an 
international human rights system; and from combating 
climate  change  and  reducing  extreme  poverty  to 
preventing  the  spread  and  use  of  nuclear  weapons. 
Those and other achievements of the United Nations are 
indeed noteworthy.
However, even as we celebrate those achievements, 
it  would  serve  us  well  to  take  stock  of  the  state  of 
our  interdependent  world  and  the  road  ahead  for 
the  Organization.  For  every  day  we  are  confronted 
with compelling evidence that shows we are far from 
achieving our quest for peace, security, prosperity and 
human dignity for all — whether it is conflicts and acts 
of terrorism, the unthinkable stockpiles of weapons of 
mass destruction, the inequalities that persist within and 
among nations, the rising expectations of billions living 
at the very margins of existence, or climate change that 
threatens our very survival — failure to address those 
interrelated global challenges is not an option.
Peace, security and human rights must go hand in 
hand with sustainable development. Over the past few 
years,  we  have  taken  stock  of  the  state  of  our  world, 
our  peoples  and  our  planet.  We  have  undertaken 
a  comprehensive 
the  challenges  and 
opportunities. And in a spirit of cooperation that many 
thought impossible, we have adopted an ambitious and 
transformative Agenda for Sustainable Development. It 
review  of 
18/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
is now time to translate the 2030 Agenda into concrete 
actions in earnest, individually and collectively.
Since  joining  the  United  Nations,  44  years  ago, 
under  the  wise  and  able  leadership  of  our  monarchs 
the  people  of  Bhutan  have  endeavoured  to  fulfil  the 
vision and goals set forth in the Charter. Guided by our 
development  philosophy  of  Gross  National  Happiness 
(GNH), which is essentially development with values, 
we have consistently worked to ensure that the peace, 
security, happiness and well-being of our people always 
remain at the centre of our development efforts.
Bhutan  has  achieved  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goal  targets.  Poverty  has  been  reduced 
to  12  per  cent.  Our  primary  school  enrolment  rate  is 
nearly 100 per cent and life expectancy has increased 
to  68  years.  We  remain  a  bastion  of  environmental 
conservation with 72 per cent of our land under forest 
cover.  Our  effort  to  safeguard  the  environment  is 
reinforced  by  a  constitutional  mandate  to  maintain  a 
minimum of 60 per cent of our land under forest cover 
for  all  time.  Our  achievements  would  not  have  been 
possible without good governance. Over decades, under 
the  enlightened  leadership  of  our  monarchs,  we  have 
successfully embraced democracy. 
Peace,  security  and  human  rights  depend  on 
an  all-inclusive  approach  to  development  that  puts 
people  and  the  environment  at  the  centre.  In  2011, 
Bhutan spearheaded the adoption of resolution 65/309, 
entitled  “Happiness:  towards  a  holistic  approach  to 
development”.  A  year  later,  we  were  gratified  by  the 
decision of the General Assembly to observe 20 March 
each  year  as  the  International  Day  of  Happiness.  The 
pursuit of happiness is a fundamental human goal and 
embodies the spirit of the 2030 Agenda. We stand ready 
to  share  our  experience  with  GNH  and  to  contribute 
to  the  growing  discourse  on  holistic  development 
paradigms and indicators. 
Even  though  we  have  contributed  least  to  the 
causes of climate change, we, like other least developed 
countries, are among the most vulnerable to its adverse 
impacts. Despite our limited resources and competing 
demands  of  development,  Bhutan  remains  committed 
to the conservation of our natural heritage, and in fact 
has consistently contributed more than its fair share to 
global efforts to combat climate change. In 2009, Bhutan 
pledged to remain carbon neutral for all time. We have 
kept that promise. Our expectation is that, through the 
sale  of  clean  hydro-power,  by  2025  Bhutan  will  have 
the  capacity  to  offset  approximately  35  million  tons 
of  carbon  per  annum  in  the  region.  That  is  no  small 
feat,  considering  Bhutan’s  emissions  constitute  less 
than 7 per cent of that figure. I am pleased to state that, 
this week, Bhutan ratified the Doha mendment to the 
Kyoto  Protocol  and  submitted  its  intended  nationally 
determined  contributions 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
to 
To  support  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the  area  of  international  peace  and  security,  Bhutan 
began  contributing  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations in 2014. We remain a committed partner and 
are working to deepen and broaden our peacekeeping 
engagement  with  the  United  Nations.  Today  it  is  a 
matter of great pride that Bhutanese peacekeepers are 
deployed and serving in nine peacekeeping missions.
We  have  no  doubt  that  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda  within  the  next  15  years  will  be  a  daunting 
challenge.  Achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  will  require  countries,  both  developed 
and  developing  alike,  to  take  stock  of  their  existing 
development  strategies  and  embark  on  far-reaching 
reforms  to  implement  the  Agenda.  For  a  country  like 
Bhutan,  which  is  least  developed  and  landlocked, 
addressing  the  challenges  will  require  innovative  and 
creative  approaches  to  build  on  the  progress  we  have 
made thus far.
A  key  challenge  we  face  is  to  build  a  strong  and 
sustainable  green  economy 
that  ensures  gainful 
employment  for  our  youth,  inclusive  growth  and 
promotes  self-reliance.  With  a  narrow 
industrial 
base  and  a  high  dependency  on  a  single  sector,  our 
economy is faced with unprecedented macroeconomic 
challenges,  despite  otherwise  prolonged  periods  of 
robust economic growth. A careful reorientation of our 
economy is imperative if we are to ensure that our future 
development is inclusive and sustainable as envisaged in 
the 2030 Agenda. In that regard, the continued support 
and  cooperation  of  our  development  partners  will  be 
crucial  as  we  seek  innovative  approaches  to  balance 
our  environmental  aspirations  and  developmental 
needs. That takes on even greater importance as Bhutan 
progresses  towards  graduation  from  the  category  of 
least  developed  countries  to  ensure  that  hard-earned 
developmental gains are sustained.
I  should  like  to  underscore  the  vital  importance 
of  education  to  achieve  our  transformative  agenda. 
Many of the SDGs will not be attainable if we do not 
15-29822
19/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
relentlessly invest in building a dynamic and relevant 
education  system  in  our  countries,  a  system  that 
nurtures our children and youth with the right values, 
knowledge  and  skills  that  reflect  our  aspirations  and 
goals. In that regard, we are happy to note that ensuring 
inclusive  and  equitable  quality  education  for  all  is 
a  stand-alone  Goal  in  the  2030  Agenda.  In  moving 
forward,  SDG  4  must  remain  at  the  forefront  of  our 
planning  and  implementation  of  national  strategies  to 
achieve  the  SDGs.  The  education  sector,  which  has 
always  been  accorded  high  priority  by  Bhutan,  will 
be given special emphasis as we mainstream the 2030 
Agenda in our national strategies and plans. We hope 
that our development partners will share our sense of 
priority and urgency in this vital area and support our 
efforts to ensure that it is relevant to achieve the 2030 
Agenda.
The 2030 Agenda sets out a necessarily ambitious 
vision and SDGs. We have no doubt of the complexity 
and  enormity  of  the  tasks  for  its  implementation.  It 
will  require  systemic  new  thinking  and  a  long-term 
perspective  in  our  planning.  It  will  require  sincere 
global  partnerships,  predictable  resources  and  the 
collaboration and commitment of all our people.
The first litmus test for our commitment to action 
on the 2030 Agenda will be whether or not we reach an 
ambitious and legally binding agreement at the twenty-
first  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  That 
agreement must be firmly anchored in the principles of 
the Convention, including the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities.
Mr.  Fornell  (Ecuador),  Vice  President,  took  the 
Chair.
Our decisions in Paris must be driven by the latest 
science.  The  evidence  is  unequivocal.  An  emissions 
pathway taking us beyond 1.5° C above pre-industrial 
levels  would  have  disproportionate  and  irreversible 
impacts  on  the  most  vulnerable  among  us.  A  second 
test of our commitment to action would be whether we 
are able to deliver on our promises and pledges on the 
means  of  implementation  for  the  2030  Agenda.  And, 
finally,  are  we  able  to  make  tangible  progress  in  the 
area of United Nations reforms?
Real  progress  in  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
is  critical  to  ensure  a  robust  mechanism  for  the 
implementation  of 
the 
the  Agenda.  Furthermore, 
Security  Council  must  be  reformed  to  reflect  current 
geopolitical  realities,  through  the  commencement  of 
text-based negotiations on the basis of decision 69/560, 
which was adopted by consensus.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  provides  us  a 
historic opportunity to truly awaken our spirit of global 
solidarity and shared values for the sake of our children 
and our planet. In the words of His Majesty the King 
of Bhutan,
“Let  us  place  the  interest  of  humanity,  not 
national populations and constituencies, above all 
else. Let us take political risks and strong decisions 
in addressing the needs of humanity. The answer to 
global problems will come closer at hand when we 
grasp  that  universal  simplicity  —  that  sense  of  a 
shared planet and a shared fate for those who walk 
on  it.  We  need  shared  human  endeavour  not  just 
negotiated change.” 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Taukelina Finikaso, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, Trade, Tourism, Environment and 
Labour of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Finikaso 
(Tuvalu):  On  behalf  of 
the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Tuvalu,  it  is  indeed  a 
great  honour  and  pleasure  to  deliver  this  statement 
at  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  and  wish 
the  Assembly  success  and  blessings  under  his  able 
guidance and leadership. May the Good Lord bless and 
sustain him and our United Nations.
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  former  President  of  the 
General Assembly, Mr. Sam Kutesa, for delivering the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1) and the many other core successes of 2015 in our 
transition  from  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  era  to  that  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs). We applaud all the Chairs of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits — on disaster 
risk reduction in Sendai, on financing for development 
in Addis Ababa and last week’s Summit for the adoption 
of  the  Agenda.  We  thank  the  entire  membership  and 
members  of  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society,  the  private  sector  and  academia,  who  all 
contributed to the dialogues, negotiations and drafting 
responsibilities.  Let  me  also  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and his managers, the Secretariat 
and  all  the  specialized  United  Nations  agencies,  staff 
and  peacekeepers,  who  are  honouring  the  citizens  of 
20/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
the  world  with  the  best  of  their  service,  energy  and 
commitment.
It  has  been  70  years  of  successful  life  for  this 
sacred  institution,  and  we  have  also  exhausted  the  15 
years of the MDGs. How we have fared is a key beacon 
of  the  relevance  and  effectiveness  of  multilateralism 
and this solemn union, the United Nations. The noble 
visions  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  remain  pertinent  and  vital  for 
successive  generations  that  long  for  peace,  security 
and prosperity. The MDGs saved millions from hunger 
and  poverty.  We  are  more  technologically  advanced, 
more  connected,  more  cooperative  and  more  aware 
of the global issues — and certainly have resisted the 
temptation of an all-out world war.
Yet we must be honest with ourselves and note that 
there  are  persisting  inequities,  recurring  insecurities 
and planetary distress that require our urgent attention. 
A  significant  number  of  “we  the  people”  globally 
are  still  homeless,  jobless,  with  many  more  are 
becoming  displaced  and  stateless.  Many  are  deprived 
of opportunities for education and health services, and 
many still have a hopeless future, and as such, extremism 
has become an alternative choice of existence for those 
disoriented, if not lost, souls.
In  short,  there  are  still  many  left  behind.  As  we 
are fully aware, it is usually the aged, women, youth, 
the  disabled  and  little  children  who  are  deprived  and 
robbed of their fundamental rights to be human in such 
dire situations. We must have a United Nations answer. 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  with 
its  17  Goals  and  169  targets,  must  deliver  for  the 
people. Every child, every woman, every citizen, every 
community should know the Sustainable Development 
Goals and own the rights under these Goals. The Goals 
must  be  advocated  as  widely  as  possible  to  all  global 
citizens  through  the  technological  advances  that  we 
have  for  information  and  communication  so  that  they 
can be understood, owned and adhered to by one and all. 
The Goals must bring about accountability on the part 
of  our  leaders,  our  development  partners,  the  private 
sector, religious bodies and the youthful generation.
We  must  aspire  to  deliver  tangible  outcomes  in 
all  countries  and  to  be  all-inclusive  in  participation, 
design,  decision-making  and  implementation  and  in 
the gains derived from them. Each country must take 
the reins and drive its own pursuits befitting their own 
circumstances  and  capabilities.  The  United  Nations 
and our universal goals are only as effective as the sum 
of  all  our  positive  national  and  regional  actions  put 
together. What we do for our own people is what makes 
the  difference.  The  success  of  the  United  Nations  is 
ours to create.
As a least developed country and one of the smallest 
small island developing States (SIDS), Tuvalu is fully 
aware  of  its  responsibilities  under  Agenda  2030,  as  it 
was  also  with  the  MDGs.  We  are  planning  to  host  a 
national summit to help develop our next development 
plan in November. Our national priorities, along with 
our framework for pacific regionalism, will be aligned 
to  the  interregional  agenda  of  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  Pathway  and  mainstreamed  into 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Our small islands face multiple structural constraints 
and vulnerabilities. Sea-level rise continues to inundate 
many  of  our  small  island  coastlines  and  inundate  our 
food  plantations.  That  is  a  security  issue,  an  urgent 
and intergenerational one. It is an existential issue for 
Tuvalu  and  other  Pacific  countries,  and  also  bigger 
populated  countries  in  the  flood  plains,  and  will 
displace  many  people.  While  many  of  our  citizens 
are  opting  to  migrate  on  their  own  terms  because  of 
existential  issues,  migration  does  not  solve  global 
warming,  and  the  United  Nations  does  not  identify 
climate change migrants as refugees. That is a dilemma 
for us in Tuvalu.
The  2030  Agenda  will  be  meaningless  to  many 
of  us  low-lying  SIDS  if  a  credible  climate  change 
agreement  in  Paris  in  December  is  not  ambitious 
and  action-oriented.  The  Paris  agreement  therefore 
must  reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  keep  the 
global average temperature rise to below 1.5° Celsius; 
recognize  that  climate  change  is  a  human  right  issue 
for Tuvaluans and many other millions and is an urgent 
security and existential issue; be committed to a low-
carbon future; include a loss and damage architecture to 
recognize that preventing climate change is a national 
obligation for those who pollute, and the polluters must 
reduce  emissions  or  pay  to  clean,  mitigate  and  aid 
those most vulnerable and without the means to adapt; 
provide credible, timely public finance and clarity from 
developed countries to the pledges of $100 billion for 
climate  change  finances;  and  it  must  be  reassuring 
for  the  private  sector  to  transition  and  invest  in  clear 
energy and climate-resilient approaches.
15-29822
21/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
its 
submit 
Tuvalu  will 
intended  nationally 
determined  contributions.  We  must  all  note  that  our 
obligation is not only to submit those contributions, but 
also to ensure that we achieve those set targets. There 
must be no backsliding. We must have a good review 
mechanism  to  gauge  whether  cumulatively  we  are 
reducing emissions and not increasing them.
The increasing unease from destabilizing conflicts, 
violence,  malicious  brutality  and  related  impunity 
throughout the globe is worrisome. We have to provide 
hope and leadership to find lasting peace. We welcome 
the report of the Secretary-General on the future of the 
United Nations peace operations (see A/70/95), which 
calls for change and reform, and the Secretary-General’s 
plan of action to promote tolerance and reconciliation 
and counter violent extremism.
Tuvalu  also  welcomes  the  adoption  by  consensus 
of  a  text  to  advance  the  negotiation  of  reforms  to  the 
Security  Council.  The  adopted  resolution  is  long 
overdue giving much needed impetus to the recycling 
of  known  positions  and  statements  repeated  in  the 
foregoing 23 years. We must advance with a Security 
Council  that  is  more  representative  of  a  membership 
and a world with more nuanced and ominous security-
related issues.
Recent  global  social  and  economic  tensions  and 
market  jitters  remind  us  that  we  are  of  course  not 
immune to a repeat of the global financial crisis. The 
cost  and  prolonged  painful  recovery,  even  in  the  far 
remote small economies like Tuvalu, are still vivid in our 
memories. The new SDGs framework must ensure that 
accountability  measures  are  elaborated  and  enforced, 
especially  for  the  rich  echelons  that  are  untouchable 
and ignorant of the far-reaching repercussions of their 
greed, especially to small genuine investors.
As  custodians  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  Tuvalu  fully 
supports  SDG  14.  We  are  all  oceanic  States  as  our 
planet and Mother Earth is more than 70 per cent blue. 
The blue ocean is not a sink for radioactive spillovers 
of  nuclear  wastes.  It  is  not  a  dump  for  industrial  and 
general garbage. It is not a carpet to sweep and hide our 
dirt under. We from the islands have a warning for our 
SDGs. Without a healthy ocean it would be a challenge 
to  achieve  many  other  sustainable  goals.  Do  not  give 
a man a fish to satisfy his hunger just for a day, give 
a whole generation a healthy ocean and all succeeding 
generations will be satisfied for eternity.
The successful implementation and outreach of the 
Secretary-General’s  sustainable  energy  for  all  will  be 
a vital undertaking of the 2030 Agenda. Clean energy 
undergirds and empowers most other SDGs. We must 
cooperate in a shared quest for a smooth transition from 
fossil  fuel  to  renewable  alternatives  and  to  ensuring 
that  energy  security,  accessibility  and  affordability  is 
applied holistically.
to 
We 
the  smooth 
look  forward 
transfer  of 
technology and technical skills, the development of the 
technology bank and data and capacity-building that is 
tailored to each country’s unique situation and context. 
We  would  appreciate  the  facilitation  of  the  means  of 
implementation and finance as discussed in the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda.
the 
For  vulnerable  LDCs  and  SIDS, 
timely 
operationalization and mobilization of the Green Climate 
Fund, with minimal bureaucracy, will be most welcome. 
But as much as we need capacity enhancement, science, 
data  and  new  technology,  we  must  match  this  with 
leadership integrity. The recent papal encyclical of His 
Holiness Pope Francis agrees that our leadership roles 
must be free of political wrangling, power squabbling, 
conflicts, trade imbalances, bad governance, race and 
gender differentiation, self-interests, greed and profit-
only mentality and ignorance of nature’s deterioration.
We  the  people  need  SDGs  championed  by  good 
accountable  leaders.  In  Tuvalu  we  have  conducted 
leadership  seminars  for  our  parliamentarians  and 
approved a leadership code for all in leadership positions 
nationwide. The independent Office of the Ombudsman 
is now fully engaged in its responsibilities.
Monitoring  and  reviewing  our  progress  on  the 
SDGs throughout the next 15 years is vital to sustain 
and focus our transformative agenda per country. The 
role  of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  will  therefore 
be  critical  to  respond  to  the  changing  and  evolving 
circumstances  of  each  member  and  region,  ensuring 
that Agenda 2030 is adding value, effective and fit for 
purpose.
The graduation criteria for least developed countries 
and their application require proper scrutiny and review, 
as they are biased towards statistical calculations rather 
than  SIDS  vulnerable  realities.  Tuvalu  will  forever 
be  a  small  island  developing  State,  with  constrained 
options for productivity, trade and economies of scale. 
In fact, we are losing land because of sea-level rise. Our 
economic and social and environmental vulnerabilities 
22/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
are  intrinsically  interlocked.  They  cannot  be  perused 
analytically 
in  silos  when  computing  graduation 
criteria.
Early in March, Tropical Cyclone Pam devastated 
Vanuatu,  Tuvalu,  Kiribati  and  Solomon  Islands. 
Given  Tuvalu’s  low  elevation  and  small  size,  the 
devastation  was  significant,  further  confirming  our 
high  vulnerability  to  the  increasing  occurrences  and 
severity of natural disasters. A high-level dialogue on 
Tropical Cyclone Pam was held with our development 
partners last July in Funafuti to seek assistance for an 
Australian  $92  million  bill  for  the  recovery  efforts. 
We have also submitted a comprehensive project to the 
Green Climate Fund to better safeguard and protect our 
people, land and infrastructure in the long term when 
such disasters revisit in future.
We applaud the thawing of tensions between close 
neighbours  the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba. 
We sincerely hope that the embargo against Cuba will 
be  lifted  soon,  and  for  continued  dialogue,  smooth 
transition  and  a  resumption  of  economic  partnerships 
in the near future. We thank the Government of Cuba 
for offering scholarships to many SIDS and developing 
countries  in  the  health  sector,  despite  their  economic 
restraints  because  of  the  embargo.  This  year  eight 
Tuvaluan medical doctors graduated from Cuba. That 
spirit  of  cooperation  gives  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations Charter real meaning and value.
Tuvalu also welcomes the efforts of the Government 
of the Republic of China on Taiwan in fostering peace and 
prosperity in the region and globally. The Government 
and  non-governmental  organizations  of  Taiwan  have 
consistently  supported  various  developmental  and 
humanitarian undertakings directly and through many 
specialized  United  Nations  bodies,  such  as  the  World 
Health  Assembly,  the  World  Health  Organization, 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change.  Taiwan’s  infrastructure  projects,  technology 
transfer and capacity-building have produced genuine 
and  tangible  outcomes  in  Tuvalu.  We  can  achieve  the 
ambitious goals we have set ourselves in Agenda 2030 
only if all the permutations of partnerships are utilized 
and honoured.
Finally, Tuvalu pledges its full support for the new 
Agenda  “Transforming  Our  World:  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development”  and  for  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session, under the theme of 
the general debate, that is, “The United Nations at 70: 
a new commitment to action”. Let us work together to 
create a future that is accommodating to the total human 
race, and to heal and secure our planet for successive 
generations. If we are ambitious in all our 17 SDGs, let 
us not be any less ambitious with Goal 13 in Paris.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Denis Moses, Minister for 
Foreign and Caribbean Community Affairs of Trinidad 
and Tobago.
Mr.  Moses  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  It  is  a  signal 
honour for me to address this body and to extend to the 
President  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  congratulations 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its seventieth session. We also express our appreciation 
to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa of 
Uganda,  for  the  many  productive  initiatives  that  he 
pursued to good effect during his tenure.
The President has assumed the mantle of leadership 
of  this  body  at  a  critical  juncture  in  the  life  of  the 
Organization. Now is an opportune moment to reaffirm 
its founders’ guiding vision as enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  to  rededicate  ourselves  to 
be  faithful  in  our  joint  pursuit  of  the  goals  of  peace, 
security, development and human rights.
But,  as  we  assess  the  performance  and  impact  of 
the United Nations, we must also look ahead to the next 
phase in the life of this unique Organization, given the 
many  challenges  that  confront  human  civilization  in 
general and the international community in particular. 
Consequently,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  considers  the 
theme of this session — “The United Nations at 70: the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights” — to 
be both most fitting and timely.
A few days ago in this very Hall, Member States 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
the  overarching  framework  that  will  guide  global 
development for the next 15 years. Trinidad and Tobago 
echoes  the  words  of  the  Secretary-General  that  the 
2030 Agenda encompasses a universal, transformative 
and  integrated  agenda  that  heralds  a  historic  turning 
point  for  our  world.  The  adoption  of  this  landmark 
agreement is testament to the triumph, and indeed the 
power  and  possibilities,  of  multilateralism,  especially 
as  it  emphasizes  a  people’s  agenda,  with  the  promise 
of leaving no one behind. This ambitious and inclusive 
Agenda must not be lost in lofty rhetoric.
15-29822
23/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
The  United  Nations  has  as  its  main  purposes  to 
maintain international peace and security, to promote 
and  protect  human  rights  and  to  effectively  address 
pressing international economic and social issues, such 
as development, through international cooperation.
Although in the aftermath of the Second World War 
the United Nations has succeeded in preventing another 
global  war,  peace  still  remains  elusive  in  some  parts 
of  the  world.  Conflicts  and  tensions  adversely  affect 
countries and regions well beyond their immediate place 
of origin, whether through forced migration, disruption 
of basic public services such as health, education and 
sanitation or through rendering impossible the normal 
conduct of business activity.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  a  strong  advocate  for  the 
reform of the Security Council to better enable that body 
to respond to the various security and other challenges 
that  currently  confront  the  international  community. 
This  is  especially  so  having  regard  to  the  fact  that, 
in  the  contemporary  world,  warfare  is  no  longer  the 
exclusive  preserve  of  nation  States.  Other  actors, 
with  pernicious  designs,  have  acquired  the  capability 
to  threaten  States  and  to  carry  out  dastardly  deeds 
calculated to intimidate, and continue to pose serious 
threats to international peace and security. The United 
Nations  must  therefore  respond  with  alacrity  to  those 
threats  in  a  manner  that  is  acceptable  to  all  Member 
States.  That  is  achievable  if  the  Security  Council  is 
reformed  to  genuinely  reflect  the  diversity  that  today 
characterizes and embodies the United Nations.
For small States such as Trinidad and Tobago, the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  is  of 
paramount  importance.  We  are  keenly  aware  that  our 
prospects  for  achieving  sustainable  development  are 
inextricably  linked  to  the  safety  and  security  of  our 
people.  However,  our  ability  to  provide  such  safety 
and  security  is  increasingly  being  stretched,  given 
that Trinidad and Tobago is located in a region heavily 
impacted  by  the  trafficking  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons, as well as its attendant ills.
This  illicit  trade  is  transboundary  in  nature 
and  is  largely  associated  with  the  drug  trade  and 
its  international  criminal  networks.  Consequently, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  the  Caribbean  Community 
fully subscribe to the aims and objectives of the Arms 
Trade Treaty as a critical vehicle to address the scourge 
of the illicit arms trade. We do so because we understand 
all too well that the continued presence of this menace 
in  our  region  can,  if  left  unchecked,  undermine  our 
peace  and  security  and  limit  our  progress  towards 
sustainable development.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  recognizes 
that  as  we 
celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the creation of 
the  United  Nations,  the  international  community  still 
grapples with the goal of the total elimination of nuclear 
weapons. Trinidad and Tobago and the other members 
of the Caribbean Community join with the countries of 
Latin America in celebrating our common commitment 
to  denuclearization  through  the  establishment  of  our 
region as the first nuclear-free zone in the world. 
The  disastrous  humanitarian  consequences  of  the 
use of the nuclear option today for a large number of 
people  from  diverse  regions  of  the  world  could  result 
in  widespread  suffering,  dislocation  of  populations 
and increased migration, thus undermining the peace, 
security  and  development  of  many  countries  and 
regions.  This  reality  should  chasten  all  peoples,  and 
especially  the  leaders  of  countries  possessing  such 
weapons.
Accordingly,  we  welcome 
the  nuclear  deal 
negotiated  by  the  United  States,  its  partners  and  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. We wish to congratulate all 
the parties involved on the tenacity and patience they 
demonstrated in that complex and demanding process, 
and challenge both sides to honour their commitments.
The 2030 Agenda would not be fully implemented if 
the most vulnerable members of our societies — women, 
children,  persons  with  disabilities  and  indigenous 
peoples  —  are  not  placed  at  the  very  centre  of  the 
development  paradigm.  Regrettably,  in  some  parts  of 
the world, women and children continue to be denied 
fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms,  receive  less 
pay  for  equal  work  as  men  and  are  systematically 
prevented  from  obtaining  an  education,  all  of  which 
hinder  their  ability  to  participate  in  the  sustainable 
development of their countries.
Since  its  independence,  in  1962,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  has  enacted  several  laws  and  administrative 
and  other  measures  to  promote  and  strengthen  the 
general  well-being  of  women  and  girls  in  society.  On 
the international plane, we have committed to the full 
and effective implementation of our obligations under 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination against Women and the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child.
24/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
recognizing 
the 
Additionally, 
progressive 
contribution  of  women  to  peace  and  development, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  since  2010  introduced,  and 
been  the  main  sponsor  of,  the  General  Assembly 
resolution  on  women,  disarmament,  non-proliferation 
and arms control since the year 2010.
Our  commitment  to  the  safety  and  security  of 
our  citizens  remains  undiminished,  and  as  we  move 
forward  it  is  the  intention  of  the  Government  of 
Trinidad and Tobago to adopt a ‘whole of Government’ 
approach  to  national  security,  in  which  all  ministries 
and  national  agencies  will  share  responsibility  and 
will  be  accountable  for  the  safety  of  the  State.  To 
promote  such  an  integrated  and  resilient  approach  to 
national security and to contribute to the attainment of 
sustainable development in line with the Government’s 
strategic vision for developed country status by 2030, 
the Government of Trinidad and Tobago will actively 
pursue mechanisms to strengthen national capacities to 
reduce risk and to build community resilience to threats 
to national security.
While time will not allow for a thorough review of 
our strategy, permit me to share some of the measures 
targeted  for  implementation:  the  development  of  an 
adaptable  defence  and  security  posture  to  ensure 
that  the  traditional  role  of  the  military  is  integrated 
with  new  roles  to  ensure  the  security  of  the  State; 
the establishment of a joint border protection agency; 
the  adoption  of  an  intelligence-led  national  security 
architecture; and the enhancement of our disaster risk 
management capability policy.
The  international  community  now  accepts  that 
climate change is a threat to our very existence. We need 
to be mindful, however, that this threat to humankind 
recognizes no boundaries, cannot be contained through 
high-level  diplomatic  talks  and  mediation  and  will 
weigh heavily upon developing countries, particularly 
small  island  developing  States  and  least  developed 
countries,  thereby  crippling  their  ability  to  react  to 
external  shocks  to  their  social,  economic  and  natural 
systems.
Like  many  other  small  island  developing  States, 
Trinidad and Tobago is at high risk of being severely 
affected  by  the  devastating  effects  of  climate  change, 
and has therefore made mitigation measures a national 
priority, within the practical constraints of its limited 
financial  capability.  We 
the 
destructive  effects  of  Tropical  Storm  Erika  on  our 
recently  witnessed 
fellow  Caribbean  State  member,  the  Commonwealth 
of  Dominica,  which  has  set  back  that  country’s 
development by many years.
It  is  undeniable,  therefore,  that  climate  change 
and development are closely interlinked. Recognizing 
the  need  for  bold  and  responsible  action  on  the  part 
of  all  Governments,  albeit  on  the  basis  of  common 
but  differentiated  responsibility,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
has adopted a proactive posture and has submitted its 
intended  nationally  determined  contributions  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  ahead  of  the  2015  Paris  Climate  Change 
Conference.  It  is  our  expectation,  in  conformity  with 
that  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  that  any  credible 
agreement  from  the  Paris  Conference  must  set  the 
world  on  a  path  to  decarbonization  of  the  global 
economy  before  the  end  of  the  century.  In  order  to 
achieve that, the agreement must be legally binding and 
contain  provisions  on  mitigation,  adaptation,  finance, 
transparency and compliance that would ensure that the 
increase in average global temperatures can be limited 
to  less  than  l.5°  Celsius  above  pre-industrial  levels. 
An  ambitious  agreement  in  Paris  is  therefore  also  an 
imperative for the maintenance of international peace 
and security in the medium to long term. Trinidad and 
Tobago is committed to work with all States to achieve 
a  new  legally  binding  balanced  framework  for  global 
cooperation on climate change.
In the area of governance of the oceans, it is well 
established  in  international  law  that  the  utilization 
of  resources  of  any  kind  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction  must  be  consistent  with  the  principles 
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea. In that regard, Trinidad and Tobago looks forward 
to active participation by all States in the Preparatory 
Committee  on  the  development  of  an  international 
legally  binding  instrument  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas  of  national  jurisdiction,  for  the  benefit  of  all 
humankind.
The quest for economic and social justice for many 
cannot be divorced from the fervent desire of all peoples 
to live in freedom and without fear of persecution. In 
that regard, the growing religious and ethnic diversity 
of  our  societies  highlights  the  ever-present  need 
for  mutual  respect  and  appreciation  for  the  value  of 
diversity that today is a defining characteristic of many 
countries  and  communities.  A  lack  of  such  tolerance 
and respect for human rights and human diversity has 
15-29822
25/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
fuelled  once  again  in  our  lifetime  the  horrific  crimes 
of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes 
and  crimes  of  aggression.  With  a  view  to  ensuring 
accountability  for  those  accused  of  committing  such 
crimes, and in order to act as a deterrent to would-be 
perpetrators,  the  international  community  established 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Trinidad  and 
Tobago calls upon all States that have not as yet done so 
to support the ICC.
We  applaud  the  initiation  of  steps  towards  full 
rapprochement  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba, 
which has so far, among other things, been exemplified 
through  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations 
between the two States, thus reducing tensions in our 
hemisphere.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  hopes  that,  sooner 
rather  than  later,  that  process  will  mature  with  the 
lifting  of  the  anachronistic  economic  embargo  and 
blockade that for too long has undermined the economic 
development of Cuba.
While  we  are  very  much  encouraged  by  the 
easing of tensions in the northern Caribbean with the 
resumption of dialogue between the United States and 
Cuba,  we  are  concerned  by  the  recent  developments 
surrounding the protracted border controversy between 
our  neighbours,  Venezuela  and  Guyana.  Trinidad  and 
Tobago remains convinced that the controversy should 
be settled by pacific means in keeping with the Charter 
of the United Nations.
At  the  same  time,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  reiterates 
the position of the Caribbean Community on the matter 
concerning  citizens  of  the  Dominican  Republic  of 
Haitian ancestry and calls on the Dominican Republic 
to ensure that the human rights of these citizens do not 
continue to be infringed and are honoured in accordance 
with international law.
Once again, the failure to find a permanent solution 
to  the  Israeli/Palestinian  conflict  remains  of  deep 
concern to Trinidad and Tobago. That situation affects 
the  ability  of  both  sides  to  live  in  peace  and  security 
and  also  impinges  on  the  right  of  the  Palestinians  to 
self-determination.  It  is  our  hope  that  both  sides  will 
work together with others in resolving this decades-old 
problem, resulting in the establishment of a Palestinian 
State with clearly defined borders, coexisting in peace 
and security alongside the State of Israel.
The United Nations must adapt to the ever-changing 
geopolitical  environment  as  well  as  the  emerging 
economic  and  social  landscape.  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
therefore  emphasizes  the  imperative  to  move  with 
greater alacrity on the question of the revitalization of 
the General Assembly in order to ensure the effective 
execution of its mandate. The General Assembly is the 
only  institution  or  grouping  of  States  that  possesses 
the  inclusiveness,  and  indeed  the  legitimacy,  to  act 
on  behalf  of  the  international  community.  We  must 
therefore spare no effort to make it a more effective and 
dynamic instrument in the service of all the peoples of 
the world, elevating none about others and respecting 
and defending the rights of all.
Trinidad and Tobago commits to continue to play 
its part at the regional and global levels to ensure that 
we avoid the pitfalls experienced by the United Nations. 
We  will  work  faithfully  with  others  to  build  on  the 
tremendous progress made by this institution over the 
seven decades of its life in order to bring about a greater 
commitment by all States to peace, security and human 
rights for all peoples of the world so that they may live 
in larger freedom and continuing prosperity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alva  Romanus  Baptiste, 
Minister for External Affairs, International Trade and 
Civil Aviation of Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Baptiste  (Saint  Lucia):  As  I  address  this 
historic seventieth session of the General Assembly, I 
join  in  the  chorus  of  congratulations  to  the  President 
on  assuming  the  high  honour  and  Office  of  President 
of the General Assembly. Please permit me to take this 
opportunity to wish him a successful tenure, which I am 
sure will be guaranteed by his experience as Speaker of 
the Parliament of Denmark.
It has been 70 years since this great vessel of peace 
took  flight  following  the  atomic  destruction  of  the 
Second World War. At that time, people throughout the 
planet were of one mind that the pursuit of peace was 
the supreme objective. For 70 years we have grappled 
with our mission in the midst of war and conflict and 
sometimes we have even questioned our effectiveness.
For 70 years we have been coming to the General 
Assembly  to  deliver  statements  of  glorious  intention, 
only  to  be  disappointed  by  inaction  or  adverse 
decisions. After 70 years the time has come to confront 
our collective conscience and reconcile our words with 
our  actions.  As  we  subject  ourselves  and  the  global 
Organization to new levels of critical examination we 
must  answer  the  question:  are  we  still  on  course  to 
securing a world of peace or are we evading the urgent 
26/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
course of duty which calls upon us to act with wisdom, 
humility and love for humankind?
We  must  also  focus  on  what  we  have  achieved 
and  the  work  that  we  need  to  do,  now  and  in  the 
future.  As  we  engage  in  this  process  of  introspection 
and  reflection,  we  must  seize  the  opportunity  for 
rededication and regeneration for the United Nations to 
continue addressing the increasingly complex issues of 
human survival.
The  President  has  assumed  office  at  a  time  of 
tremendous trial for many people throughout the world. 
Today many of our Middle Eastern brothers and sisters 
in  Iraq,  Libya,  Syria  and  elsewhere  find  their  lives 
transformed  by  graphic  experiences  of  disturbance, 
personal trauma and, in some instances, much physical 
and mental pain. That is a human tragedy of unthinkable 
proportions,  and  the  people  of  Saint  Lucia  and  other 
small  countries  look  on  in  near  disbelief  at  the  huge 
exodus  of  people  from  those  previously  prosperous 
countries.
Suddenly, the leaders and peoples of the European 
countries  to  which  those  migrants  on  the  move  have 
sought refuge find themselves gripped by surprise and 
concern  as  they  search  to  find  the  correct  reaction  to 
this  humanitarian  crisis.  We  can  well  understand  the 
dilemma  faced  by  receiving  countries,  which  have  to 
balance their particular national interests against their 
wider  global  responsibility.  They  know  that  the  more 
new immigrants they accept, the more they will have 
to accept as others desperate to escape those situations 
of  suffering  and  trauma  flock  to  friendlier  fraternal 
nations.
We  note  that  this  huge  migration  flow  is  towards 
Europe,  some  of  whose  countries  border  or  face  the 
Middle East zone. Although we are geographically far 
away  from  the  crisis,  the  human  suffering  burns  our 
collective  Caribbean  heart.  And  even  as  we  see  the 
inevitability of Europe’s responsibility to bear the brunt 
of  this  tragedy,  we  recognize  the  long  history  of  the 
interplay between Europe and the Middle East.
As  we  see  and  hear  some  in  Europe  express 
concern about the magnitude of the challenge, we want 
to encourage and assure them that the right thing can 
and  must  be  done.  Smaller  and  poorer  nations  have 
demonstrated a humanity and generosity that has made 
a big difference whenever and wherever they assisted.
In  the  Caribbean  we  offer  the  example  of  Cuba, 
which  despite  being  saddled  with  a  United  States 
economic  embargo  for  more  than  50  years  has  been 
able  to  provide  scholarships  to  train  thousands  of 
professionals  from  the  Caribbean  and  Latin  America 
every  year.  In  addition,  Cuba’s  support  in  combating 
various  medical  epidemics  throughout  the  world, 
including  the  recent  Ebola  crisis  in  Africa,  has  been 
exemplary  and  legendary.  Therefore  Europe,  despite 
the magnitude of the challenge, as a group of powerful 
countries can respond effectively within the framework 
of its integrated whole and be comforted and inspired 
by the example of Cuba.
As  a  global  community  our  interests  cannot  be 
served in the morbid scenario of conflict and war. It is 
in that context that Saint Lucia extends commendation 
to  both  the  United  States  Administration  and  the 
Government  of  Iran  for  working  out  a  diplomatic 
solution  that  will  manage  the  nuclear  threat  in  the 
region for the next 15 years. That is certainly in keeping 
with the peacebuilding mission of the United Nations. 
This approach will not only lead to a general lessening 
of  tension  but  may  set  the  stage  for  the  West  and  the 
Middle  East  to  work  out  a  rational  and  convincing 
strategy  to  tackle  the  root  causes  of  conflict  in  that 
area, thereby re-establishing peace and tranquillity in 
that part of the world.
In  that  connection,  Saint  Lucia  appeals  for  a 
similar  approach  to  the  continuing  Israeli/Palestinian 
conflict,  one  that  will  result  in  the  resolution  of 
that  longstanding  issue.  In  our  seventieth  year,  we 
must  assert  the  supremacy  of  international  law  and 
diplomacy. Resolution 181, of 29 November 1947, calls 
for  the  establishment  of  both  the  State  of  Israel  and 
that of Palestine. My country reiterates its call for the 
recognition  of  the  statehood  of  Palestine  and  its  full 
membership of the Organization.
Clearly, a powerful byproduct of conflict and war 
is the displacement of people — physically, socially and 
economically. Nonetheless, Saint Lucia and other small 
States  expect  that  present  events  will  reinforce  the 
notion that we now live in one world where your troubles 
are mine and my troubles are yours, and that there will 
be a greater concern to have problems resolved through 
genuine diplomatic engagement rather than through the 
force of power.
Countries like my own are acutely aware that the 
problems of others far away throughout the world can 
15-29822
27/29
A/70/PV.26 
02/10/2015
easily  wash  on  to  our  shores.  We  are  very  mindful, 
therefore,  that  even  when  we  do  not  feel  directly 
impacted  there  is  the  very  real  possibility  that  the 
consequences may spill over into our region. We have 
often experienced that through the volatile prices of oil 
and  petroleum  products.  It  has  also  been  spurred  by 
political  turmoil  and  financial  disturbances  in  far  off 
regions but which often have a substantial impact upon 
our own plans for development and economic progress. 
The theatre of war is also present in our region.
From  an  economic  perspective,  small  States  like 
Saint  Lucia  are  literally  terrorized  by  the  constant 
attacks  of  the  rich  and  powerful  on  any  economic 
advances  by  the  poor  and  powerless,  which  place  our 
future  in  persistent  peril.  How  can  we  be  expected 
to be stable and secure if our vulnerabilities as small 
island  developing  States  are  constantly  ignored  and 
overlooked?  How  is  our  war  on  poverty  supposed 
to  succeed  and  be  sustained  if  at  every  turn  it  is 
systematically undermined by the regressive imposition 
of policies by the international community, whether in 
the form of illogical economic graduation, insensitive 
erosion  of  trade  preferences  or  inexplicable  black 
listing of our financial jurisdictions?
This  geographic  and  economic  insecurity  has 
become  the  central  source  of  domestic  instability.  To 
increase the specific gravity of our economic problems, 
from  an  environmental  standpoint  small  States  like 
Saint Lucia face growing insecurity as climate change 
unleashes increasingly deadly and destructive disasters 
upon us. We are now all aware of the recent devastation 
of  Dominica  by  Tropical  Storm  Erika,  which  caused 
damage amounting to almost 100 per cent of its gross 
domestic  product  (GDP).  As  I  speak  now,  Joaquin 
continues  its  decimating  march  across  the  economic 
and  environmental  fabric  of  the  Bahamas.  These  two 
most  recent  examples,  only  weeks  apart,  are  vivid 
testimony to the ferocity of the threats that confront us.
In addition, small States like my own find ourselves 
today trapped in a situation where the erosion of trade 
preferences  and  a  decline  in  official  development 
assistance  and  foreign  direct  investment  have  caused 
us  to  engage  in  increased  borrowing  to  meet  our 
current  social  and  economic  obligations  resulting  in 
high debt to GDP ratios. That has narrowed the room 
for  fiscal  policy  flexibility  and  fiscal  manoeuvring. 
This is further compounded by the increased security 
costs of responding to the negative impacts of the illicit 
trade  in  small  arms  and  illegal  narcotics,  as  well  as 
reconstruction costs following natural disasters. 
The  new  global  partnership 
for  sustainable 
economic and social development provides a platform 
from which to tackle human security in all its facets. 
We 
theinternational  community 
consistently working to minimize the causes of global 
and regional insecurity.
firmly 
support 
In that vein, 2015 provides a once-in-a-generation 
opportunity  to  set  a  transformational  global  agenda 
for  sustainable  development.  The  quartet  of  global 
agreements  forged  towards  that  end  —  on  disaster 
risk  reduction,  financing  for  development,  the  post-
2015 development agenda and the new climate change 
agreement yet to be finalized — are intended to usher 
in  a  new  era  of  sustainable  development  for  all.  The 
adoption  of  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
suggests that we have progressed our understanding of 
the profound challenges that face developing countries. 
However,  the  economic,  social  and  environmental 
security  of  small  island  developing  States  like  my 
own  rests  in  the  effective  implementation  of  these 
agreements.
Small  countries  like  Saint  Lucia  can  hardly 
withstand externally induced insecurity. We require for 
our development a context of regional and international 
harmony,  which  is  dependent  on  linkages  far  from 
our  immediate  environments.  So  there  is  substantial 
concern  that  small  States  with  limited  material  or 
diplomatic outreach do not have access to arrangements 
that allow them to speedily draw support from outside 
to inhibit or minimize environmental insecurity.
The  major  countries  of  the  globe,  and  indeed  the 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  would  no  doubt  be 
sensitive  to  the  issues  of  insecurity.  But  what  small 
countries  have  always  known,  and  larger  Powers  are 
now  beginning  to  recognize,  is  that  harmful  events 
in  particular  sections  of  the  globe  have  the  potential 
to affect and draw in all of us as members of today’s 
integrated global system.
Saint  Lucia  maintains  its  position  that  expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of  membership  of  the  Security  Council  is  imperative 
to  better  reflect  the  contemporary  world  realities 
and  achieve  a  more  accountable,  representative, 
transparent — and more important— relevant Security 
Council.  We  applaud  what  we  have  achieved  during 
the past year by moving the process now to text-based 
28/29 
15-29822
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.26
negotiations, and look forward to the realization of that 
process.
In  Saint  Lucia,  and  in  the  other  members  of  the 
Western Hemisphere, there is a general sense of relief 
and  welcome  at  the  diplomatic  reconciliation  that  has 
been  taking  place  between  the  United  States  and  the 
Republic  of  Cuba.  The  Government  of  Saint  Lucia 
believes that this initiative opens the way to a full-scale 
reconciliation  of  hemispheric  relations.  It  removes 
unnecessary impediments to our efforts at regional and 
hemispheric  cooperation.  It  consolidates  the  channels 
that are necessary for pursuing viable paths of regional 
economic  integration,  and  it  allows  small  countries 
like  Saint  Lucia  to  utilize  the  scale  of  the  regional 
platform  to  initiate  plans  and  processes  that  can  be 
mutually beneficial in the Caribbean region and in the 
hemisphere as a whole.
Furthermore, it is another indication of the removal 
of  situations  and  stratagems  that  serve  only  to  create 
sources  of  insecurity.  We  are  firmly  of  the  view 
that  countries  in  our  hemisphere  committed  to  this 
perspective  now  have  an  opportunity,  on  the  basis  of 
the initiative taken by Pope Francis and by the President 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  to  promote  the  path 
of peaceful resolution of disputes in full awareness of 
the fact that national or regional conflicts are inhibitors 
to  persistent  economic  growth  and  therefore  social 
stability.
The  normalization  of 
relations  within  our 
hemisphere is also an indication that old conflicts and 
disputes kept frigid by the era of the Cold War, are giving 
way  to  new  avenues  of  cooperation  and  collaboration 
among countries. In addition, the post-world-war period 
has begun to give way to new arrangements or efforts at 
reconciliation that permit peaceful relations in various 
parts of the world.
The Government of Saint Lucia, which has official 
relations with the Government of the Republic of China 
on  Taiwan,  notes  the  continuing  interchange  between 
that  State  and  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  which 
is  defined  in  particular  by  the  economic  relations  in 
which they are mutually involved. We believe tha,t as 
we  retain  the  status  quo  of  accrediting  recognition  to 
Taiwan, it is not for us but for themselves to indicate 
the  appropriate  template  in  the  relations  between  the 
two countries.
As I prepare to bring my presentation to its logical 
conclusion,  I  want  to  return  to  a  reflective  mode  on 
the  70  years  of  the  United  Nations.  There  have  been 
problems, of course, but there have also been successes. 
In  the  words  of  the  late  President  John  Fitzgerald 
Kennedy “Let us not curse the remaining dark. Let us 
continue to gather the light.”
There will continue to be challenges and difficult 
issues that test the resolve of members, as well as those 
cited  by  many  academics  that  are  important  to  our 
international  relations  —  for  example,  the  resolution 
of  national  identity  and  self-determination  issues; 
the  increasing  importance  of  non-State  actors;  great 
Power  involvement  in  the  third  world;  the  role  of 
religion in international politics; global militarization; 
and  the  perceived  impotence  of  international  law  and 
international organizations such as the United Nations 
in dealing with very complicated forms of violent and 
non-violent conflict resolution.
But we must continue to advance the principles of 
reasoned  discussion,  dialogue  and  discourse,  and  the 
unswerving pursuit of peace. In the 31 years between 
1914 and 1945, the world experienced two world wars, 
but in the 70 years since the end of the Second World 
War the United Nations has kept the world away from 
widespread war.
Let us work, hope and pray that we remain true to 
our  peaceful  character  and  that,  even  in  the  midst  of 
provocation, we seek to keep the world safe, projecting 
an  orientation  of  enforcing  peaceful  relations  and 
shedding  no  innocent  blood.  Therefore,  from  Saint 
Lucia to the President I convey once again our warmest 
congratulations as he guides our proceedings over the 
next year.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
15-29822
29/29
